<h> Shame of denying access and rights to social media <h> Save articles for later <p> Add articles to your saved list and come back to them any time . <p> The social media ban on under 16-year-olds is ill-conceived and undemocratic ( " Australia bans children from social media , world watches " , November 30 ) . Stripping rights from children that they have held since awareness of them is appalling and shameful , but the biggest affront is assuming that they wo n't be able to beat the system . Obtaining a VPN will circumvent any ban , and thank heavens . Why would anyone want to isolate children unnecessarily ? Bullying will always occur and time will show that this ill-conceived measure will not stop it . I hope it will not cause increased harm but I doubt it . Isolating and depriving children is not the way forward . This situation has developed because people who do n't understand technology or children are making decisions about both . Mike Keene , Mollymook Beach <p> I understand the basic theory behind the government banning children from social media -- " The internet has a lot of bad stuff and it will harm you . " Undoubtedly , there is monstrous material on the internet , invasive , uninvited and increasingly frequent . But the genie was out of this bottle decades ago . If regulation of the internet had to happen , it should have occurred in the 1990s . The federal government , in seeking to do good , is actually being stupid by allowing the coalition to umm-and-ahh in its position , while also allowing Peter Dutton and his lot to point fingers when it fails . Because it will fail , for the simple reason that children are likely smarter at using technology than anyone trying to introduce this legislation . Before anyone will be able to click " open " on their email , some 15-year-old will have a work-around . Tony Doyle , Fairy Meadow <p> Whose child will be the first to find a work-around for the new laws ? Credit : Photo : Phil Carrick <p> The Albanese government has rammed through its legislation banning social media engagement by those under the age of 16 . This decision is entirely flawed and in my view could create a level of angst that could have been avoided . When I was CEO of Epilepsy WA , one of the issues that became abundantly clear was that often children with conditions such as epilepsy and other neurological conditions experienced a significant level of bullying at schools and in their peer groups . This then manifested among that cohort in higher levels of self-harm and withdrawal from society into a self-defined and managed space . To communicate with these vulnerable children , we relied on social media groups where they could preserve a degree of anonymity.These Australian-based children no longer had friends here , but made new friends overseas , interacting with them without fear of bullying or angst of any sort . Sadly , such a categorical Draconian ban does not accommodate children with such neurological vulnerabilities . Hopefully , the next 12 months will allow us to influence the final draft of this policy framework . Suresh Rajan , Stirling ( WA ) <p> Children and adults learn from influential people and reactions to events . Social media needs to filter postings before publication , not rely on post-publication reports . " Too much of a good thing " is real . We are swamped by so much free speech that many are confused and anxious . Technology is exceeding our psychological capacity . We need some basic quality assurance before publication , just like newspaper classifieds ads , filtering for veracity ( and checking spelling ) . Unregulated innovations add to the burden we inflict upon ourselves . Some costs to participate in social media is no bad thing . Tim Coen , Ashfield <p> Exciting times . Australia is about to repeat the US 's Prohibition experiment . Virtual speakeasies are already being devised , illicit avatar stills concocted , black markets set up . Machine guns and the like probably wo n't feature as much but the script of the first movie blockbuster must surely be in prep by now . Ca n't wait ! Brian Haisman , Winmalee <p> Curbing adolescents ' access to Facebook etc is a great plan , but how can we get through to them that the world around them is much more interesting than a tiny illuminated screen ? The first step could be by example , so that they do not constantly see adult eyes glued to phones while texting or reading news items . Marjie Williamson , Blaxland <p> Advertisement <p> I do n't know why we should stop at banning children only from social media . What about television and the playing of certain video games ? They also can have harmful effects on children but no serious discussion about banning them has ever been discussed by politicians . Why stop at social media ? Con Vaitsas , Ashbury <h> The switch to ' off ' <p> Lucy Carroll writes about enlightened principals who are limiting screen times in the classroom ( " Top marks for classroom screen limits " , November 30 ) . Well done , those principals . I despair at the amount of time my grandchildren and their peers spend on their devices . They certainly do n't need more time on these in the classroom . As reported , there is little evidence that the digital revolution has enhanced learning . A sensible compromise must be the answer , including parents limiting home screen time . Denis Suttling , Newport Beach <p> It 's reassuring to hear that schools are finally realising that the use of electronic devices is not always conducive to effective learning . There is no question that these are an excellent source of information , but too often are used by some teachers as the sole source . Effective teaching requires personal engagement from teacher and student alike , with hands-on experience and without the aid of a device . Additionally , the distraction of a device is too much for many students when the lure of a website is only a swipe away from a maths text . Teachers like myself who have questioned the rush to integrate technology at the expense of " old-fashioned " methods welcome the return of common sense to the application of devices in some schools . Max Redmayne , Drummoyne <h> Leadership lacking <p> It 's hard to understand why the government walked away from a " done deal " to create a decent environmental protection agency and fulfil an election promise ( " PM deserted Plibersek , and for what ? " November 30 ) . Perhaps Albanese thought doing so would help him retain seats in Western Australia , but turning his back on a key commitment just puts other seats at risk , with no guarantee those in WA will be retained . Far better would have been to show a bit of leadership , as Paul Keating and Bob Hawke did in the 1980s , and do what 's right for the country . It 's no coincidence that Labor was in government for 13 consecutive years back then , and at a time when the economy was a far more parlous state than now . It is leadership people crave , and when politicians give it to them , those same politicians are rewarded with power . Ken Enderby , Concord <p> Advertisement <h> The Thorpe dilemma <p> Senator Thorpe 's recent behaviour suggests she is feeling disillusionment and powerless , even as an elected member of the Senate of Australia ( " Whether raising a fist or the finger , Thorpe has an appetite for disruption " , November 30 ) . Think generational disaffection , loss of Voice , denial of Truth , Treaty and Makarrata , and recognition dead-end . Her behaviour needs discipline , yet Thorpe deserves to be offered genuine and constructive listening . And she needs to be given assurance that the Albanese government will get back on track with its avowed intention to deliver justice for Indigenous Australians . Meredith Williams , Baulkham Hills <h> Labor lagging on wars , climate <p> Peter Hartcher 's analysis of Labor 's chances in the coming election ( " Electable Dutton still the outsider " , November 30 ) examines domestic problems but not foreign policy issues . Politicians must have noticed the weekly rallies supporting Palestinians in Gaza , and the recent Rising Tide rally in Newcastle against fossil fuel exports . Though younger people protesting about these major issues may have already defected to the Greens , my guess is that most older ones have always been Labor voters but would now be too disappointed to support a party that has lost its mojo regarding war crimes and climate change . Caroline Graham , Cromer <p> Is everything possible these days ? Credit : Alex Ellinghausen <p> Peter Hartcher writes of Labor 's " startling failure of communication and messaging " . Labor does identify , now and then , the massive hole in the Coalition 's self-presentation to voters : the Coalition 's almost total absence of policies and/or costings . Labor 's failure is to drive this home , preferably with a " powerful punchline " . What about : " If you do n't know , vote no ! " . E. Mark Latham , Croydon Park <h> Writers ' block <p> Advertisement <p> Your correspondent ( Letters , November 30 ) lumps writers to this paper in with those who depend on social media ( which he describes as a " symptom of boredom or loneliness " ) and further suggests that a few of us who contribute regularly " need treatment " . Ouch ! After recently hearing the ABC being referred to as the " Australian Boomers Corporation " , I am now left pondering whether SMH stands for Seriously Miserable Hacks . Alicia Dawson , Balmain <p> I am an elderly widow who has never belonged to any social media platforms , unless you count a family group chat . Age denies me many things : walking , competitive sport ( I still swim daily , though ) , uncaptioned movies , trips to the opera house , over-indulgence in Tim Tams and sex . Now your correspondent wants me to give up writing to the Herald . One word , sir : Sha n't . Coral Button , North Epping <p> Your correspondent has identified a malaise among compulsive letter writers . The cure is not to get published . Vicky Marquis , Glebe <h> Give cops a break <p> As with other correspondents ( Letters , November 30 ) , I am concerned about the judgment passed on police officer Kristian White in the case of Clare Nowland . Having experienced occasional fear in the presence of a dementia sufferer ( my husband , for whom I was caring ) , I can understand the officer 's unpremeditated reaction . I must also query the expectations we place on police officers who have no training in dealing with dementia sufferers to respond " appropriately " when the nursing staff were unable to deal with the situation " appropriately " . Kathryn Lai , Heathcote <p> Your correspondent correctly says police officers " are often confronted with situations where they have to make instant judgments " . But so are many other workers in transport , construction , mining and other industries , which have higher rates of dying on the job than police . Police are issued with dangerous weapons : firearms , capsicum spray and Tasers . They undertake significant training . The evidence in the recent case was evaluated by a judge and jury . I suggest we respect the court 's decision . The law applies to everyone , including those meant to enforce it . Al Svirskis , Mount Druitt <h> Tax the bludgers <p> Advertisement <p> Millie Muroi 's article ( " Reality check for billion-dollar companies dodging the taxman " , November 30 ) warranted a front page appearance . Australia applying a top-up tax of 15 per cent on multinationals that pay less than a 15 per cent tax rate wherever they do business globally is overdue . Corporations that bludge and sponge , taking advantage of different tax rates across the world , should be outed . Col Shephard , Yamba <h> Dump and run <p> Find them if you 're luckyCredit : Getty Images/iStockphoto <p> As more shopping is done online and more packages are sent around , there appears to be an endemic problem . Last week , an expensive package was delivered to my door . Despite it requiring " signature on delivery " , the driver dumped the package on my porch , rang the doorbell , then hot-footed it back to his truck . I 'd be interested to see what signature was recorded against my delivery , because it wo n't be mine . That , surely , is fraud . And it 's not the first time this has happened . Drivers actually waiting for a householder 's signature appear to be the exception , not the rule . Do Australia Post and the courier companies ever audit this ? Do they even care ? Is any driver ever fired for fraudulently recording fake signatures ? Senders pay more for a " signature on delivery " service , but it appears to be extremely poorly enforced . Brendan Jones , Annandale <h> Failure by degrees <p> The experience your correspondent describes in university group work with a large cohort of international students ( Letters , November 30 ) does not surprise me . As a former examiner of overseas students ' English proficiency , I have seen students who did not meet the published admission requirements still granted entry by the universities . In some cases where students redid the test after graduation , they still had not reached that entry-level score . An international education is a lofty ideal , but if selling it to unqualified candidates is used to redress a funding shortfall , the inevitable decline in the quality of degrees will disadvantage all students . Gail Dengate , Dee Why <p> I used to have a teacher neighbour who had a cupboard filled with gifts she had received over the years . This was her handy little shop for recycling gifts to friends . Good to see recycling in action , but as teacher Alice Ju says , the cards made by the students are the gifts most valued . Judith Rostron , Killarney Heights <p> To submit a letter to the Sydney Morning Herald , email letters@smh.com.au . Click here for tips on how to submit letters . <p> The Opinion newsletter is a weekly wrap of views that will challenge , champion and inform . Sign up here .
