<p> Startup independent business publisher Capital Brief has made a splash in the Australian media landscape , and after over a year of operation , Crikey chatted to CEO Chris Janz about how the publication is faring . <p> Capital Brief , described in Crikey as " a new Australian business publication that 's like if the Australian Financial Review was written for people without grey hairs but fired any subeditors who tried to reduce their word count " , launched last year with a subscription-based model that promised to eschew targeted advertising . Since its launch , it has leaned on Janz 's former Nine/Fairfax stable for its staff -- Janz left Nine in 2021 as chief digital and publishing officer , having joined Fairfax in 2016 . Capital Brief co-founder David Eisman was the former director of subscriptions growth at Nine/Fairfax , while chief political correspondent Anthony Galloway joined from The Age and The Sydney Morning Herald . Media reporter John Buckley joined from Crikey , but was also at Nine previously . <p> Janz told Crikey this week the establishment of a new " from scratch " publication with a " significant paying audience " was one of Capital Brief 's biggest wins to date . <p> An editorial statement sent by editor in chief John McDuling ( previously the national business editor at the Sydney Morning Herald and The Age ) proclaimed to waitlist subscribers : <p> " We are unabashed enthusiasts for free market capitalism , but believe that for an economy to function properly business must be rigorously scrutinised by the media . We take no sides in partisan politics . And we will never tell our audience how to vote . We believe the transition from fossil fuels to renewables and the race to net zero represent the biggest shift to the economy in decades , with significant implications for politics and society . " <p> " It 's been a long time since Australia has seen a new , ' from scratch ' publication investing heavily in quality journalism . If you look around the independent landscape , Crikey is 25 years old , The Monthly is 20 , the local Guardian has been here for more than a decade , " Janz said . <p> Capital Brief broke the story of a staffer for government Minister Murray Watt leaving cabinet documents on a plane at Doha Airport last year . It also secured the first interview with independent WA Senator Fatima Payman , just hours after she defected from Labor over the party 's position on Gaza . <p> Asked how the first year had gone -- Janz described it as " so much fun ... it 's a privilege to have had the backing to test , learn and build a masthead firmly focused on being additives to the national conversation " . <p> Scire Pty Ltd , the Janz-founded publisher of Capital Brief , is backed by private equity firm Shearwater Capital , the fact of which has been subject to speculation in The Sydney Morning Herald over Capital Brief 's independence . <p> An October item in the SMH 's CBD column asked whether Shearwater 's backing had any influence on Capital Brief 's coverage of embattled WiseTech CEO Richard White -- Shearwater was founded by early WiseTech investors . <p> EIC John McDuling took to LinkedIn to refute what he described as " clearly an agenda-driven item " , and also told CBD that " investors have no involvement in our newsroom " . <p> " We know who is reading because our articles are behind an email-led paywall . Our most engaged readers are decision-makers across politics , policy , banking and finance , the law , technology and startups , private capital , and media . It 's no coincidence that they 're the sectors we cover the most , " he said . <p> Asked about Capital Brief 's relationship to his former employer Nine , and Capital Brief reporters being " poached " from the media giant , Janz said he would n't use the term . <p> " Our journalists have come from a range of places ... the one thing our team has in common is genuine subject-matter expertise and the motivation to build and grow a masthead that genuinely matters , " Janz said . <p> " While Australian media can be fiercely competitive , some of the sector 's best-known leaders have been amazingly supportive , both as subscribers and privately . There are few who care about our sector that would argue against the creation of more journalism jobs ! " he said . <p> On launching the publication , Janz told The Australian that Capital Brief did n't " want to just be throwing grenades from the side like Crikey " . Asked about whether that had been achieved in the first year , Janz said Capital Brief 's " newsroom has no agenda beyond breaking news that is relevant to our subscribing audience . That 's a real differentiator in a broader media environment that could be seen as bifurcating and agenda-driven . Our growing subscriber numbers and audience would suggest that approach is welcome " . Janz would not be drawn on the specific numbers , only saying he was " extremely happy with our progress to date " . <p> At a panel at SXSW Sydney back in October , Janz was drawn on the much-publicised culture issues at Nine , saying they were " blatantly obvious ... the first day that I walked in there " . <p> " This did n't require an independent third party to come in and conduct an investigation that has resulted in a report that does n't lead to any consequences , " he said . <p> Asked how one copes with that kind of culture and whether it affected him , Janz clarified he was referring to Nine specifically and not Fairfax : " I joined Nine as a result of its merger with Fairfax in December 2018 , and my unashamed focus was to ensure the publishing and digital teams could continue to produce outstanding journalism while we improved the business ' financial footing . I am relieved the cultural issues at Nine are now in the open and hope the report leads to genuine change . " <p> Have something to say about this article ? Write to us at letters@crikey.com.au . Please include your full name to be considered for publication in Crikey'sYour Say . We reserve the right to edit for length and clarity . <h> Topics <p> Crikey is committed to hosting lively discussions . Help us keep the conversation useful , interesting and welcoming . We aim to publish comments quickly in the interest of promoting robust conversation , but we 're a small team and we deploy filters to protect against legal risk . Occasionally your comment may be held up while we review , but we 're working as fast as we can to keep the conversation rolling . <p> The Crikey comment section is members-only content . Please subscribe to leave a comment . <p> The Crikey comment section is members-only content . Please login to leave a comment . <p> Crikey is an independent Australian source for news , investigations , analysis and opinion focusing on politics , media , economics , health , international affairs , the climate , business , society and culture . We are guided by a deceptively simple , old idea : tell the truth and shame the devil .
