<h> Save articles for later <p> Add articles to your saved list and come back to them any time . <p> Advertisement <p> Foreign Minister Penny Wong has castigated opponents blaming the government for rising antisemitism , and Anthony Albanese has stood by his diplomatic posture towards Israel after Benjamin Netanyahu tied Labor 's " extreme anti-Israel position " to the firebombing of a synagogue . <p> The Israeli prime minister 's extraordinary statement has placed global attention on deteriorating relations between Australia and its long-time friendly nation in the Middle East , sparking calls from the pro-Israel opposition to urgently mend ties and intensifying a dispute over Labor 's management of tensions stemming from the war . <p> Prime Minister Anthony Albanese says the arsonists behind the synagogue fire should face the full force of the law.Credit : Alex Ellinghausen <p> Wong characterised the criticism of Labor 's approach as grounded in politics , not facts , emphasising that Labor 's voting in the UN was aligned with like-minded nations such as Canada and Britain , whose diplomats have increasingly lost patience with Israel 's long-running war effort . <p> " Turning this into a political fight is reckless even for Opposition Leader Peter Dutton , " she told this masthead in a statement . " The Liberals also used to support a balanced , two-state solution , but now they see political advantage in trying to reproduce the conflict here . " <p> The Coalition , former treasurer Josh Frydenberg and Jewish groups savaged Albanese for what they said was his failure to more forcefully call out antisemitism , while the opposition backed Netanyahu 's comments as the nation reacted to Friday 's shocking arson attack on the Adass Israel Synagogue in Ripponlea , in Melbourne 's south-east . <p> Loading <p> Federal counterterrorism officials have now begun to investigate the incident , after Victoria 's Counter Terrorism Command was called in on Friday . The motive and suspects remain unknown . <p> The prime minister spoke at a Perth synagogue on Saturday , without the media in attendance , in a display of support for the Australian Jewish community . Neither he nor any ministers held press conferences on Saturday . <p> Opposition home affairs spokesman James Paterson accused Labor of " giving encouragement to extremists " by shifting away from Israel . <p> Advertisement <p> While neither Albanese nor Wong directly addressed Israel 's prime minister in their comments , their remarks represented a full-throated defence of Australia 's positioning and hit back at Netanyahu 's broader criticism that Labor has abandoned Israel and given succour to anti-Israel hate . <p> In separate remarks , Albanese told this masthead he wanted the alleged arsonists behind the " un-Australian and antisemitic " synagogue fire caught and to face the full force of the law , and defended the government 's contentious voting record in the UN that Netanyahu said was " impossible to separate " from the arson . <p> " 157 countries voted for that resolution , including four of the Five Eyes partners -- Australia , the UK , Canada , and New Zealand as well as Japan and other regional partners , " Albanese said . <p> " The same resolution was supported by the Howard government for a number of years.Our vote was consistent with the long-held bipartisan position of support for a two-state solution : the State of Israel and a Palestinian state side by side behind secure borders . " <p> Wong noted that " in our democracy , Australians are free to support or disagree with the actions of Israel " , cutting across Netanyahu 's claim that " anti-Israel sentiment is antisemitism " . <p> Loading <p> She added : " But disagreement must not be used as a cloak for prejudice . Targeting the Australian Jewish community is an act of antisemitism and utterly unacceptable . " <p> In a statement posted to social media expressing his shock at the " classic , despicable , antisemitic incident " at the Adass Israel Synagogue , Netanyahu pointed to Australia 's " scandalous decision " to vote in favour of a UN General Assembly resolution calling on Israel to withdraw from the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip earlier this week , along with its refusal to grant a visa to a former Israeli minister last month . <p> In response to Netanyahu 's claim on the nature of antisemitism , Australia 's envoy against antisemitism Jillian Segal said criticism of Israel veered into antisemitism when it held Israel to a different standard to other nations or called for the erasure of the state . <p> " But not all criticism of Israel by any means is antisemitic , " she said in an interview , adding that ongoing pro-Palestine protests and displays of terror insignia in Melbourne and Sydney had created a " culture of permissibility " that likely led to the firebombing . <p> Home Affairs Minister Tony Burke , whom the opposition criticised for allegedly not taking swift action after the synagogue attack , confirmed late on Saturday afternoon that federal counterterrorism officials were now probing the incident . <p> Earlier in the day , former Liberal treasurer Josh Frydenberg called on Albanese to declare the firebombing a terrorist attack and create a national police taskforce to combat antisemitism , escalating the domestic political dispute over the Gaza conflict that has plagued the government since the October 7 attacks . <p> Frydenberg and pro-Israel former Labor senator Nova Peris held a joint press conference near the synagogue site , at which Peris said she was sad to denounce her party 's rhetoric and policies towards Israel . <p> " The prime minister does n't speak out with any conviction , with any clarity ; without any courage against the misuse of that terminology , " Frydenberg said . " This is not about other forms of hate , this is not about Islamophobia . <p> " If there 's a fence to sit on , he finds it . He gives us mealy-mouthed words that mean nothing and lead to nothing . " <p> Former Australian ambassador to Israel Dave Sharma , now a Liberal senator , said Netanyahu was not attempting to act in a partisan manner , and that he probably held genuine concern about Australia 's diplomatic positioning and the safety of Jews in what has traditionally been a country with less antisemitic sentiment than Europe . <p> Sharma noted : " The way his words carry internationally is an asset for him politically domestically . " <p> The local dispute comes against the backdrop of Israel 's year-long war launched in response to Hamas ' murder of 1200 Israelis . Netanyahu and Hamas leaders have been accused of war crimes by the International Criminal Court , and Netanyahu has become increasingly isolated on the world stage as civilian deaths have grown and Israel 's exit plan in Gaza has not become apparent . <p> Paterson called for the prime minister to confirm whether the national security committee of cabinet had met , and to allow the opposition leader to be briefed by Australian Federal Police . <p> " When there is a serious national security incident like this , the normal course of events is that the opposition is provided with a briefing , but ... it has not yet been granted . " <p> The recent UN vote on Israel and Palestine marked a two-decade change in Australia 's position on the matter and coincided with Australia 's ambassador to Israel , Ralph King , being summoned by Israeli Foreign Minister Gideon Sa'ar over the earlier decision to deny a former Israeli minister entry to Australia . <p> The last time Australia voted for a UN resolution calling for ? Israel to withdraw from occupied territories was in 2001 . In May , Australia voted to recognise Palestine as qualified to become a full UN member , and last month , Australia backed a resolution recognising the " permanent sovereignty of the Palestinians " over resources in the West Bank and Gaza Strip .
