<p> Passwords must be at least 8 characters , contain upper and lower case letters , and a numeric value . <p> Eureka Street uses the Stripe payment gateway to process payments . The terms and conditions upon which Stripe processes payments and their privacy policy are available here . <p> Please note : The 40-day free-trial subscription is a limited time offer and expires 31/3/24 . Subscribers will have 40 days of free access to Eureka Street content from the date they subscribe . You can cancel your subscription within that 40-day period without charge . After the 40-day free trial subscription period is over , you will be debited the $90 annual subscription amount . Our terms and conditions of membership still apply . <h> Humankind can not bear very much reality <h> Go , go , go , said the bird : human kind <h> Can not bear very much reality . <h> Time past and time future <h> What might have been and what has been <h> Point to one end , which is always present . <h> ' Burnt Norton ' from Four Quartets , T.S . Eliot <h> What is reality and why ca n't we bear much of it ? In the past , I 've written about the phenomenon of ' reality ' shows ; I 've even been on one ( Everyone 's A Critic ) and although it was more honest than the majority of its ilk , it was still framed , constructed , deconstructed , reconstructed and served up as a digest of what its cast members said , the raw material having gone through the internal economies of its producers pretty much as impressions and experiences go through the brain of a fiction creator . <p> As I 've said , EAC was one of the better ones . My husband and I , along with 22 other ' talent ' people were treated well , fed lavishly , driven or flown to galleries from Melbourne to Sydney and lodged in decent accommodation . We were easily outnumbered by the huge production team : There were producers and their assistants , photographers , sound engineers , caterers , travel coordinators , and Uncle Tom Cobley &amp; all . Cast and crew came to about a hundred souls , all to put on a small program that filmed people looking at art in galleries and talking about it . It must have cost millions . <p> Some of the field producers wanted a particular vibe from you . They 'd stop you and ask for something ' more personal ' . One producer disagreed with what Rick and I were saying about a contemporary piece and wanted us to start over and say something different . Not all , though . We actually protested about that and the main production team were supportive . Most were n't like that and were simply there to make sure you were able to see the piece properly and that you were comfortable . But when active direction happened it felt strange , because one 's response to a work of art is entirely personal , made up from what you know and what you experience in the moment of contemplation of the actual piece . <p> When it 's genuine response , you notice stuff and point it out . Or you do n't notice much and do n't feel much . It 's personal . You make judgements , because that 's what you do anyway when looking at art , or politics , or life . But then the editors get onto your maybe ten-to-fifteen-minute substantial conversation and clip out the twelve seconds where you happened to mention your mum -- and that 's what makes it to air . They want strong reactions , but not all types of strong reaction . The contentious things we said about that piece in Sydney did n't make it to air and I 'm not surprised . ( It was pretentious and crappy . Well , they said they wanted our opinions ... ) The editors also cut out some harsh things I said in Melbourne when looking , if I remember rightly , at a particularly strong Gordon Bennett . I slammed electoral divisions in Victoria being named after mass murderers of Aboriginal people like Angus MacMillan . I might been a tad critical of John Howard too . Naughty naughty . The producers obviously did n't want the program to be too political or abrasive , and sometimes I suppose I am . Fair cop . ( This was 2017 , and Macmillan was n't renamed until 2019 . It 's now Monash . About bloody time . ) <p> So , when I compare this admittedly benign and mostly enjoyable experience with what I 've seen and heard about what happens on other shows that are labelled ' reality ' , I think that EAC was a bit of a unicorn . It only tweaked and mostly did n't attempt to script or direct us , which is a world away from the highly constructed faux-reality dramas of Married at First Sight , Big Brother , Real Housewives , Jersey Shore etc , etc . I try to watch them sometimes so that I 've got a finger on what 's happening in media land , and indeed covered Big Brother in some detail in the distant past of Eureka Street , when I was the Watching Brief columnist . <p> But it 's different now . That small freckle of Sylvania Waters , the Osbournes and Big Brother has metastasised into the ever-spreading melanoma of falsity and porn-adjacency we now see . I ca n't sit through five minutes of Kardashians or enjoy seeing people being forced to eat cockroaches and slimy viscera . I would not have been happy to go to the Colosseum had I been an ancient Roman . Given my views , I would probably have been the ' talent ' anyway , short-lived food for lions and pitiless human voyeurs . At least a lion would only eat my body . The other lot want your soul . <p> But then , why do people want this ? As King Lear said , ' what makes these hard hearts ? ' How do some people watch something happening and come to radically different views ? Relativity is important , context is important . But there have to be some hard lines drawn , surely . You ca n't fall back on context when someone is calling explicitly for the genocide of another group , as we saw memorably enacted in US Congress earlier this year . And strangely , egregiously , we saw this week that the contract of the UN 's special advisor on the prevention of genocide , Alice Wairimu Nderitu , was not renewed when she determined that Israel was not perpetrating genocide in Gaza . This Kenyan woman , whose entire professional career has been based on the study and prevention of genocide , failed to deliver the conclusion that was desired by the Secretary-General . <p> The warring points of view over what has been happening in the Middle East since October 7 only serve to make the point that what you bring to the world when you are bearing witness tells me what you are as much as what you saw . Or believed you saw . If you are getting your news only from Al Jazeera , SBS , ABC or The Guardian , you will believe one thing . If you read a bit further and from a wider variety of sources , and if you 're well-versed in history , you might well believe something else . <p> I have a rule of thumb now : if your question enrages your listener , then you have part of your answer . If your question makes them hate you , you have another part of the answer . If your disagreement with their argument makes them want to hurt you in some way , that 's as much an answer as anything verbal . <h> Juliette Hughes is a freelance writer . <h> SUPPORT RESPECTFUL CONVERSATIONS IN A TIME OF DIVISION <p> We need no reminding of the depth of the division that exists in our Australian community . It 's there every time we go online , turn on the TV , open the newspaper . <p> Our politics is focused on point-scoring , personalities , and name-calling across party lines . The media , for the most part , do n't help , driven by the 24-hour news cycle and the pursuit of advertising dollars into a frenzy of click-bait and shallow sensationalism . <p> What does it mean to be an Australian in times like these ? What are the values that unite us ? <p> Eureka Street offers an alternative . It 's less a magazine than a wide ranging conversation about the issues that matter in our country and our world ; a conversation marked by respect for the dignity of all human beings . <p> To do this , we rely on your support as our community and we thank you for giving it so generously .
