<h> Great power rivalry <p> Syria : Sunni militants and Turkish-backed rebels advanced across Syria this week and reignited the country 's civil war , as a ceasefire held in Lebanon despite Israel and Hezbollah trading fire . <p> In the past 13 years , Syria has experienced a brutal conflict that has fractured the country and left about 600,000 people dead and displaced 12 million people , or about half the population . <p> Until last weekend , the war had settled into a stalemate , in which Syria 's leader Bashar al-Assad , backed by Iran and Russia , retained control of Damascus and 70 per cent of the country . Various slivers were controlled by groups including Kurds , Turkish-backed militants , Sunni Islamists and ISIS . <p> In a surprise move last week , however , an Islamist militia , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , launched an offensive and eventually captured the city of Aleppo , extending the territory they already held in the north-west . HTS , which had close ties with al-Qaeda until 2016 , has been designated as a terrorist group by the United States and the United Nations . <p> The HTS offensive was backed by the Syrian National Army , a rebel force supported by T ? rkiye , prompting speculation the country may have approved the campaign . Assad 's backers , Iran and Hezbollah , have been preoccupied with the conflicts in Lebanon and Gaza , and Russia has been focused on the war in Ukraine . <p> On Tuesday , the anti-Assad forces pushed further south , attempting to take the city of Hama . Elsewhere , a US-backed Kurdish group , the Syrian Democratic Forces , battled Assad 's forces . Iran 's foreign affairs minister , Abbas Araghchi , denounced the advance of the " terrorist groups " , saying Tehran would consider sending troops to support Assad . Russia 's air force has reportedly been assisting him . <p> The UN estimated the fighting had killed hundreds of people and displaced about 50,000 . <p> The renewed violence in Syria erupted as an uneasy 60-day truce began between Israel and Hezbollah , an Iran-backed group in Lebanon . Israel last weekend accused Hezbollah of violating the ceasefire and bombed the group 's facilities . Hezbollah then fired at Israel , prompting Israeli air strikes . <p> Hezbollah began firing at Israel on October 8 last year , a day after Hamas , an Iran-backed Palestinian group , crossed from Gaza and launched attacks in southern Israel , leaving 1200 people dead and seizing about 250 hostages . Israel then invaded Gaza as part of a campaign that has left more than 44,000 people dead , according to local officials . <p> As the war in Gaza has continued , Israel has come under growing diplomatic pressure to withdraw from Gaza and the West Bank . <p> Australia this week changed its position and backed a UN resolution that called for an " irreversible " pathway to a two-state solution and demanded Israel " end its unlawful presence in the Occupied Palestinian Territory as rapidly as possible " . The resolution was backed by 157 countries , with seven abstaining and eight , including the United States , opposed . Australia has shifted position on several recent resolutions . <p> A spokesperson for Foreign Affairs Minister Penny Wong said : " If , on balance , we believe the resolution will contribute to peace and a two-state solution , we will vote for it . " <h> The neighbourhood <p> The Hague : The International Court of Justice this week began hearing a landmark climate change case initiated by Vanuatu that could set out legal obligations on countries to reduce carbon emissions . <p> During the opening session of the two-week hearing Ralph Regenvanu , Vanuatu 's climate envoy , told the court that countries should be required to urgently respond to climate change and to support vulnerable states . <p> " A handful of readily identifiable states have produced the vast majority of historic and current greenhouse gas emissions , " he said . " Yet other countries , including my own , are suffering the brunt of the consequences . " <p> Ninety-nine countries are due to give testimony in what will be the largest hearing in the court 's 80-year history . The court 's advisory opinion will not be legally binding but could be used as a basis for domestic lawsuits around the world . <p> The idea to launch a case in The Hague originated with a group of students at the University of the South Pacific . Their proposal was taken up by Vanuatu and other small island states , which pushed the UN General Assembly to adopt a resolution that asked the court to issue an opinion . <p> The court will be required to answer two questions : what obligations do countries have to protect the environment from greenhouse gas emissions ? And what should the consequences be for countries that harm the environment ? <p> During the hearings on Monday , Australia endorsed Vanuatu 's efforts to tackle climate change but urged the court to adopt a relatively restricted view of the law that would be based on existing treaties such as the Paris Agreement . <p> The court 's opinion is expected to be delivered late next year . <h> Democracy in retreat <p> South Korea : Yoon Suk Yeol , the president of South Korea , faced calls to resign this week after stunning the nation by declaring martial law on Tuesday night . <p> Yoon , who has faced several corruption allegations and is deeply unpopular , imposed martial law in an unscheduled television address at 10.30pm , accusing the opposition of colluding with North Korea and plotting an " insurgency " to try to " overthrow the free democracy " . Following his declaration , troops stormed the National Assembly . <p> But the 300-member assembly convened early on Wednesday and voted 190-0 to rescind martial law . At 4.30am , Yoon gave another televised address to confirm he accepted the assembly 's demand . <p> On Wednesday , protesters in Seoul called for Yoon to resign , as did the country 's umbrella union group . South Korea regularly experienced periods of martial law during its decades as a military dictatorship but none has been imposed since it became a democracy in 1987 . <p> Yoon was elected with a narrow majority in 2022 but has struggled to pass bills , including the budget , since the opposition Democratic Party won a significant majority in parliamentary elections in April . <p> The imposition of martial law appeared to be an attempt by Yoon to force his way through the political impasse . But the move backfired , with several colleagues openly saying it was a mistake . <p> The opposition said Yoon must resign or he will be impeached . Before the martial law declaration , opinion polls showed Yoon 's approval rating was at 25 per cent . His term is due to expire in 2027 . <h> Spotlight : Biden pardons son <p> United States : On June 13 , Joe Biden was asked by reporters whether he would pardon his son Hunter , who had been convicted a day earlier of lying on a gun-purchase form about whether he was an illegal drug user . <p> " I 'm extremely proud of my son Hunter , " said the US president . <p> " He has overcome an addiction ... I abide by the jury decision . I will not pardon him . " <p> At the time , Biden still intended to contest the presidential election in November . He later decided to step down in January . <p> On Sunday , he announced he was pardoning his son , saying " raw politics has infected this process " . <p> " Enough is enough , " he said in a statement . <p> " Hunter was singled out only because he is my son -- and that is wrong . " <p> Hunter Biden was due to be sentenced for the gun charges on December 12 and for separate tax evasion charges on December 16 . He has accused Donald Trump and the Republicans of pushing for the prosecutions -- though a court in the gun-charges case found no evidence " of vindictive or selective prosecution " . <p> The pardon infuriated Biden 's Democratic colleagues , who have tried to defend the judicial system against claims by Trump , who faced multiple criminal charges but insisted the process had been weaponised . <p> Gary Peters , a Democratic senator , said Biden 's pardon was an improper use of power and that " a president 's family and allies should n't get special treatment " . <p> Biden issued a blanket pardon for any offences since 2014 , presumably to address concerns that Trump and his loyalists may target Hunter Biden . <p> Trump this week appointed Kash Patel , a staunch loyalist who has vowed to target Trump 's opponents , to be the next director of the FBI . <p> In his 2023 book , Government Gangsters , Patel provided a list of 60 people who make up the " deep state " , including Biden , Hillary Clinton and Vice President Kamala Harris . Patel 's other books include The Plot Against the King , a children 's book about Trump . <p> This article was first published in the print edition of The Saturday Paper on December 7 , 2024 as " Rebels advance as conflict displaces 50,000 Syrians " . <p> For almost a decade , The Saturday Paper has published Australia 's leading writers and thinkers . We have pursued stories that are ignored elsewhere , covering them with sensitivity and depth . We have done this on refugee policy , on government integrity , on robo-debt , on aged care , on climate change , on the pandemic . <p> All our journalism is fiercely independent . It relies on the support of readers . By subscribing to The Saturday Paper , you are ensuring that we can continue to produce essential , issue-defining coverage , to dig out stories that take time , to doggedly hold to account politicians and the political class . <p> There are very few titles that have the freedom and the space to produce journalism like this . In a country with a concentration of media ownership unlike anything else in the world , it is vitally important . Your subscription helps make it possible .
