<h> Editorial <h> No argument can justify this attack on a place of worship <h> Save articles for later <p> Add articles to your saved list and come back to them any time . <p> Advertisement <p> This much we know . About 4am on Friday , people in dark clothing and wearing masks firebombed the Adass Israel synagogue in Ripponlea , in Melbourne 's inner south-east . Witnesses reported seeing two people throw fuel inside the synagogue and then set it alight . At least one worshipper The Age spoke to was in the synagogue at the time and escaped . The synagogue has been extensively damaged . <p> The synagogue was a place of worship . Its congregation is not politically aligned . Its congregants are ultra-Orthodox . Some speak in Yiddish , do not use the internet and shun other aspects of modern life . Their clothing sets them apart in the street . It is possible there is not a more insular community in the city , indeed in the country . They are , in the practice of their faith , removed . <p> They are blameless to the events in Israel , Gaza and Lebanon . Yet they became targets this week of a violence that could have led to deaths . <p> No argument can justify this act at a place of worship in Melbourne . While police do n't yet know the precise motivation of the attackers , they are looking at terrorism as a possible motive . <p> Condemnation of the attack has been swift across the political spectrum . Prime Minister Anthony Albanese said it was an outrage . " The violence and intimidation and destruction of a place of worship is something that we should never see in Australia , " he said . Opposition Leader Peter Dutton described it as " abhorrent " . <p> Premier Jacinta Allan said : " Like any place of worship in this state , it should be a refuge -- a place of peace , prayer and safety . " <p> Allan showed leadership by attending the scene and speaking to members of the community , many of whom were reeling and blaming governments for failing to stamp out antisemitism . <p> Liberal state MP David Southwick , who is Jewish , said the attack had " devastated Melbourne 's Jewish community and caused deep angst " . Synagogue board member Benjamin Klein said : " For this to happen to a synagogue thousands of kilometres away from anywhere else in the world , a peaceful neighbourhood , a peaceful community -- it is quite horrendous . " <p> The Australia Palestine Advocacy Network said " attacks on religious institutions have no place in our community " . <p> Advertisement <p> There can be no apologists for this attack . Australia , quite rightly , prides itself on its capability to allow protests and demonstrations in the name of freedom of expression . The October 7 , 2023 , Hamas terror attacks , massacre of Israelis and the taking of hostages precipitated a response from Israel that has left Gaza and parts of Beirut in ruins and cost tens of thousands of lives . The ripple effects are felt around the world . <p> Loading <p> The conflict has led to protests on the streets of this country . Legitimate concerns about the fate of Palestinians have prompted ferocious debate and a cleaving of public attitudes . <p> At the UN on Wednesday , Australia voted in favour of Israel withdrawing its " unlawful presence " from the West Bank , Gaza and eastern Jerusalem , thus changing a 20-year-old stance on the matter . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's office responded to Australia 's vote by saying it would " invite more terrorism " and more antisemitic riots on campuses and in cities , including in Australia . <p> Antisemitism , the stain that society seems unable to wash free , has enlarged and deepened its mark globally , and has washed onto our shores , and onto our streets . Antisemitic slogans and messages have defaced schools and other buildings . Jewish communities now live with a fear that they should not have to . <p> The echoes of Nazi Germany in the symbolism of this act can not be dismissed . It might once -- even just last week -- have been impossible to contemplate such a thread running back to those dark times . But the symbolism is irrefutable . A Jewish synagogue has been firebombed . Indeed , this synagogue was set alight in 1995 , too . Historians have given a name to the wave of hatred that burnt through Nazi Germany in November 1938 : Kristallnacht . Hundreds of synagogues and Jewish institutions were burnt to the ground . <p> And this much we know . Memory is resilient . It flows from one generation to another . A worshipper at the Ripponlea synagogue thought it an " obvious target . The feeling is reliving the war years ... We really just want peace . We 're doing our own thing . We 're all business people or studying or learning religious texts , and we keep to ourselves . Most of us are all first-generation , second-generation descendants of Holocaust survivors , so this brings back memories . " <p> The Israeli ambassador to Australia , Amir Maimon , said of the attack that it was " a chilling reminder that antisemitism is not a relic of the past , but the growing threat that demands immediate actions , not empty words " . <p> Indeed . Now is not the time for empty words or cheap shots in the political sphere . Now is the time for leadership at all levels of government and community . To say as one , this is unacceptable . To say , this old hatred will not be allowed to terrify those living peaceful lives .
