<h> The friendship between Australia and Israel is on life support . There is a lot of blame to go around <h> Save articles for later <p> Add articles to your saved list and come back to them any time . <p> Advertisement <p> Australia 's once-friendly relationship with Israel has spiralled from simmering tension into outright hostility after a remarkably caustic intervention into Australian domestic politics by Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . <p> In a scathing social media post , Netanyahu went significantly further than Israel 's top diplomat in Australia or any of the nation 's leading pro-Israel organisations by accusing the government of taking an " extreme anti-Israeli position " . He also directly linked Friday 's arson attack on a Melbourne synagogue to Australia 's " scandalous " voting record at the United Nations and the decision to decline a visa to a former Israeli cabinet minister . <p> Benjamin Netanyahu has blamed the Albanese government for the Melbourne synagogue attack.Credit : Getty Images , Alex Ellinghausen <p> He also appeared , in a stunningly broad claim , to suggest that any criticism of Israel is inherently antisemitic . <p> Netanyahu 's post marks a turning point in the Australia-Israel relationship : one that has traditionally been described as a friendship , and often , inaccurately , as an alliance . Now the gloves are off , and diplomatic niceties have been thrown into the bin . <p> The attack on the Adass Israel synagogue in Ripponlea certainly appears to be a disgraceful antisemitic attack . Naturally , many people presumed the perpetrators were motivated by opposition to Israel 's war against Hamas in Gaza . As of now , though , we have only suspicions , not evidence . At the time of writing , police have not identified any suspects or made any arrests . We do n't know what the attackers ' motivations were and whether they have been influenced by the Albanese government 's actions . <p> Compare Netanyahu 's rhetoric with that of Israel 's ambassador to Australia , Amir Maimon , just a few hours earlier : " I do n't hold the government , the Albanese government , as responsible for the rise in antisemitism , " Maimon said at a press conference outside the Israeli embassy in Canberra . <p> The destroyed interior of the Adass Israel synagogue . <p> Maimon said he was " disappointed " with Labor 's change in voting positions at the UN but added : " You do n't measure a relationship based on one or two votes . " <p> Netanyahu 's social media post deserves scrutiny . He blasted Australia 's decision to vote in favour of a motion on Wednesday calling for Israel to end its occupation of the West Bank and Gaza as soon as possible . Australia 's vote was indeed an important shift , given it had abstained or voted against similar motions since 2001 . It is entirely legitimate to disagree with the decision , question its timing or criticise the way the government has explained the rationale for the shift . <p> Advertisement <p> But can it really be branded scandalous and extreme , given 157 nations voted in favour of the motion , with just eight abstaining and seven voting against ? Britain , Canada , New Zealand , Japan , France and Germany all voted in favour of the resolution . <p> Some self-reflection would not go astray from Israel 's leaders and advocates about why the nation has become so isolated on the international stage . The war in Gaza , triggered by Hamas ' monstrous massacres on October 7 , 2023 , has stretched on for more than a year with no end in sight and tens of thousands of Palestinian civilians dead . <p> Loading <p> The two-state solution is going nowhere under Netanyahu 's government , the most far-right in Israeli history . Israeli National Security Minister Itamar Ben-Gvir recently called for Palestinians to be encouraged to migrate from Gaza so that Israeli settlers can move in , while Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich is preparing plans to annex the Palestinian-dominated West Bank . Netanyahu , the great survivor of Israeli politics , is a divisive leader who has been ordered to take the stand on corruption charges and has been accused of war crimes by the International Criminal Court . <p> Which is not to say the Albanese government has masterfully handled its relationship with Israel . It clearly has not , given that Australia is being singled out for such vituperative attacks . Relations got off to a rocky start in 2022 when the government caught Israel off guard with the timing of its decision to no longer recognise West Jerusalem as Israel 's capital . Many Israelis were offended that Foreign Minister Penny Wong did not visit a kibbutz massacre site when she visited Israel in January , unlike some other foreign dignitaries . Australian Jewish community leaders are fuming over what they describe as a lack of government consultation and declining access to key decision-makers . They say relations between Labor and the Jewish community have never been worse . <p> Albanese has repeatedly condemned the rise in antisemitic incidents over the past year , but he has not gone far enough for many in the Jewish community . This includes some Jewish Labor members , who believe Albanese and his colleagues have minimised attacks on the Jewish community by regularly following their condemnation of antisemitism with criticism of Islamophobia . " We need leadership , " says Nick Dyrenfurth , who is Jewish and leads the Labor-aligned John Curtin Research Centre think tank . " It is time to call out antisemitism without reference to any other ' isms ' . " <p> Then there is Netanyahu 's coda : " Anti-Israel sentiment is antisemitism . " Such a sweeping statement leaves no room for civil disagreement or nuanced debate . In Israel , there is lively and often heated discussion about Netanyahu 's leadership , Israel 's strategy in Gaza and the question of a two-state solution . A survey published by the Israel Democracy Institute this month found that six in 10 Israelis are pessimistic about the future of democratic governance in their country . They are presumably not antisemitic . <p> Wong this week said : " Australia supports and has historically been a friend of Israel . " That longstanding friendship is now on life support , and the Australia-Israel relationship has descended into dysfunctionality and acrimony . For that , there is lots of blame to go around .
