<h> A synagogue minutes from my home was set ablaze . This is why many Jewish Australians live in fear <p> The Adass Israel Synagogue following a firebombing in Melbourne ( Image : AAP/Yumi Rosenbaum ) <p> For anyone familiar with Melbourne 's Jewish community , the Adass Israel Congregation is a cornerstone . Nestled in Ripponlea -- a suburb known for its eclectic blend of luxury and vibrant Jewish life including many kosher shops and bakeries -- the synagogue is a hub of spiritual and communal activity . The ultra-orthodox Jewish community , which calls this synagogue home , is a constant presence with prayer services held throughout the day and Torah classes that run well into the night . <p> The Adass Israel community is Haredi ( ultra-Orthodox ) . They are tight-knit and visibly Jewish , with their distinctive long beards , curled sidelocks and traditional fur hats worn on the Sabbath and Jewish festivals . Despite their prominent Jewish identity , they remain apolitical . Unlike many other synagogues that prominently display Israeli and Australian flags , Adass Israel is non-Zionist , rooted in a longstanding theological stance that Jewish people should not create a country until the time of the Messiah , so they do not officially recognise the State of Israel . <p> This community is as far removed from the Israel-Gaza conflict as any Jewish group in Australia can be . That 's why , on Friday morning , when I saw the first images and videos of the synagogue engulfed in flames -- deliberately ignited by two masked men captured on camera with jerry cans of petrol -- I was devastated , but not entirely surprised . Since October 7 , 2023 , when Hamas launched its brutal attack on Israel , killing 1,200 people and kidnapping hundreds -- setting in train Israel 's war in Gaza and the deaths of more than 45,000 Palestinians -- antisemitism has surged globally , including here in Australia . <p> In recent months , my community has repeatedly warned that we do n't feel safe . Synagogues have been targeted , Jewish people assaulted , businesses boycotted and threats proliferated online and in person . As I wrote a few weeks ago in Crikey to commemorate the one-year anniversary of October 7 , in Australia , for the first time , my children are practising active-shooter drills at their Hebrew schools . Security patrols around Jewish kindergartens have intensified , and bomb-resistant fences are being erected . When I take my sons out in public , with their skullcaps marking them as Jewish , I feel a creeping unease that someone might target us . <p> When I shared these concerns , some dismissed them in Crikey 's comments section as paranoia . Now , with a synagogue -- a mere five-minute drive from my home -- deliberately set ablaze , I no longer doubt the gravity of the situation . Like many Jewish Australians , I 'm frustrated by what feels like a lack of urgency from authorities . We are terrified and do n't feel like the government and police have done a good job of showing a zero-tolerance approach to antisemitism . <p> I understand that careful considerations have to be balanced in relation to political speech and antisemitism ( i.e. I do n't think criticism of the State of Israel is antisemitism and I understand that sometimes these two issues get conflated , especially in data that is compiled by some Jewish groups ) . But without exaggeration , it really does not feel safe to be visibly Jewish right now in Australia . <p> Melbourne is home to one of the largest populations of Holocaust survivors outside Israel , including my late grandfather , Yossi Kaltmann . A sole survivor of his family , he chose this country because it was as far from Europe as one could possibly go . For Holocaust survivors , Australia represented a safe haven where the horrors of antisemitism would never follow . <p> I am grateful my grandfather did not live to witness the Adass Israel synagogue burning . He cherished this community , participating in its Kollel Balabatim , its daily Torah study program for retirees . When my grandfather passed away in 2016 , the Adass rabbi visited my dad during shiva , the traditional seven-day mourning period after a person has died , offering the community 's comfort and solidarity . It is heartbreaking to think that this place -- a sanctuary for so many Holocaust survivors who rebuilt their lives in Australia -- has now been reduced to smouldering ruins . <p> This attack is not just a tragedy for the Adass community but a chilling reminder for all Jewish Australians that our safety can not be taken for granted . I firmly believe that if more regular Australians understood the fear and anguish Jewish Australians feel , they would demand a more decisive response . While I trust the police will apprehend those responsible for this vile act , prevention must become the priority . <p> A zero-tolerance stance against antisemitism is no longer optional . The proposed protest-exclusion zones around synagogues that the Allan government is discussing is a good start , but a taskforce to investigate antisemitic crimes would also be helpful to properly deal with the problem . The Victorian government has legislation at its disposal , such as the Summary Offences Act 1966 , which , with a very low threshold , would allow police to charge people . So far , this legislation has not been used . These laws include specific provisions under Section 21 , which allows people to be charged with " disturbing religious worship " . <p> On Friday afternoon , I picked up my children and went shopping as we do every week for Sabbath , in Ripponlea . The aftermath of the attack was impossible to ignore . Police tape surrounded the Adass Israel synagogue . Fire trucks , police cars and media crews crowded the streets . My five-year-old daughter , curious as ever , asked why so many people were there . <p> I took a deep breath , searching for words I never imagined I 'd have to say in Australia . " My darling , " I said , " some bad people burned down a shule synagogue . " <p> Her little face registered the gravity of my words . After a moment , she said simply , " Mummy , that 's so sad . " <p> Sad does n't begin to capture it . It 's infuriating . It 's terrifying . But above all , it 's a call to action . Jewish Australians deserve to feel safe in their own country , to attend synagogues and send their children to Hebrew schools without fear . It 's time for Australia to step up , to stand firm against the rising tide of hatred , and to ensure that no community has to endure what ours is facing now . <p> Share <h> About the Author <p> Nomi Kaltmann is a lawyer and journalist and ran as an independent candidate for Caulfield in the 2022 Victorian election . She is the founder of Australia 's Jewish Orthodox Feminist Alliance . She lives in Caulfield with her husband , Daniel , and their brood of super cute kids . <h> Topics <p> Crikey encourages robust conversations on our website . However , we 're a small team , so sometimes we have to reluctantly turn comments off due to legal risk . You can read our moderation guidelines here . If you 'd like to share your thoughts on this story , you can email letters@crikey.com.au . Please include your full name to be considered for publication in our Your Say section . <p> Crikey is an independent Australian source for news , investigations , analysis and opinion focusing on politics , media , economics , health , international affairs , the climate , business , society and culture . We are guided by a deceptively simple , old idea : tell the truth and shame the devil .
