<p> Reddit is already the one quick place Google Search and its Search AI shoves in front of users for all their inane questions . Now , Reddit is doing away with the middle man and plans to turn all your posts into a question-and-answer bulletin with AI summaries . Can you trust everything people say on Reddit ? Now , it 's time to put that to the test . <p> The social news site 's short blog post describes how its new Reddit Answers system will work . You put a text prompt into a search box , and the AIt will return " curated " summarized answers based on Reddit posts and conversations . The tool then links the relevant conversations at the bottom of the page for you to click on . Reddit said this would " empower communities and provide human perspectives to everyone , " though only after it 's thrown through the information sieve that is AI . <p> It 's essentially the same thing as what Google and Bing do for their own AI-enabled search . However , Reddit is drawing only on its posts for content . Considering the iffy quality of information you might find on various forums , that seems like a recipe for strange and likely wrong results . <p> Reddit does n't normally identify the quality of the post or poster in terms of accuracy or writing quality . All that matters is a post 's upvotes and the users ' standing in any one subreddit . In an email with Gizmodo , a spokesperson for Reddit confirmed Reddit Answers will look first to answers found at the top of search results and comments from posts . For that , upvotes are " one of the key mechanisms . " Otherwise , the AI is supposed to surface " balanced answers " that will share " multiple viewpoints " depending on the question . <p> For example , Reddit provided a GIF with the question , " What are some tips for better sleep . " The AI-generated answer included the usual advice for creating a bedtime routine and reducing screen time before bed . It is also recommended to take known sleep-aiding supplements like tart cherry juice . <p> Reddit Answers may not produce as helpful answers for more controversial topics . Currently , Google 's own AI-enabled search does n't provide AI overviews for many political questions . Instead , it relies upon the usual search ranking algorithms . These supposedly consider the accuracy of the information ( though results have gotten worse over time ) . Reddit , on the other hand , relies heavily on engagement as a key metric . <p> The tool is only available to a limited number of Reddit users in the U.S. , but the site said it was expanding to more languages and locations over time . You can compare this tool to Google Search or look at The Washington Post 's new " Ask the Post AI . " It 's supposed to take all the Post 's past reporting and spit out AI answers based on your queries . <p> The Post 's AI speaks in a dry , journalistic style . If you ask it about the ongoing genocide against Palestinians , it will relay Amnesty International 's recent report about Israel 's acts in Gaza as well as the Israeli government 's response . It also provides the context that " the conflict has resulted in the deaths of over 44,000 Palestinians and the displacement of 90% of the population . " Like too much journalistic writing , the passive voice is n't helping express the cause and effect of Israel 's ground war against a civilian population . <p> Though it 's nominally a forum , Reddit now has to manage information on its platform , especially as its AI collects and regurgitates it for easy consumption .
