<p> The swift collapse , after 54 years , of Syria 's al-Assad dynasty has just transformed the Middle East 's geopolitical landscape . The lightning offensive by the Islamist Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) militia took all of Syria 's neighbours -- and everyone else -- by surprise . The news that president Bashar al-Assad had fled to Russia confirms the one binding truth about wars : unintended consequences can extend far beyond the theatre of battle . <p> The October 7 , 2023 , attack that Hamas carried out against Israeli civilian communities bordering Gaza triggered earthquakes across the Middle East . Israel 's ruthless offensive to destroy Hamas in Gaza , and in Lebanon against Hezbollah , practically obliterated Iran 's ' axis of resistance ' , while the United States and Britain pummelled the Iran-backed Houthis in Yemen in response to Houthi attacks on international shipping . <p> Syria 's civil war began in 2011 when the Assad regime crushed peaceful Arab Spring protests . But the fighting largely subsided after 2015 , when Russia 's intervention , together with assistance from Iran and Hezbollah , turned the war in Assad 's favour . Today , with Iran 's proxies destroyed and Russia 's war-fighting capabilities drained by its Ukraine quagmire , the rebels saw their chance . <p> With Turkish assistance , and apparently Qatar 's as well , the rebels easily overran the regime 's surprisingly thin defences , and Assad 's army capitulated without a battle . After Assad 's Iranian and Russian patrons hastily evacuated their forces and left him to his fate , a regime built on torture and mass slaughter no longer inspired fear . <p> The end of Iran 's alliance with Syria , its main stronghold in the Arab world , will reshape the regional balance of power . As Mohammad Ali Abtahi , a former Iranian vice president , put it two days before Assad fled , the Syrian government 's fall ' would be one of the most significant events in the history of the Middle East . ... Resistance in the region would be left without support . Israel would become the dominant force . ' <p> The name Hayat Tahrir al-Sham stands for the liberation of the Levant , which in the early Caliphate 's political lexicon comprises Syria , Lebanon , Jordan and Palestine . But Abu Mohammad al-Jolani , the HTS leader , has tried to project an image of a new kind of Islamist . He seems to have drawn the necessary lessons from the failures of al-Qaeda and the Islamic State ( ISIS ) and now sees himself as a pragmatist who aspires only to bring about the ' liberation of Syria from its oppressive regime . ' <p> A sign of this new pragmatism is Jolani 's instructions to his men to allow Syria 's prime minister , Mohammad Ghazi al-Jalali , to continue to run public institutions until they are formally handed over . ISIS would have carried out mass executions of soldiers and officials . <p> Still , al-Jolani leads a hard-line Islamist organisation . Those who expect that Turkey may temper HTS 's extremism assume that Jolani would be an obedient soldier of Turkey . <p> In any case , al-Jolani faces powerful political constraints . He must reckon with myriad rival militias that united just to topple Assad , and also with the Kurdish forces who rushed to take control of more parts of eastern Syria , while under attack from Turkish forces in the north . <p> To Turkish president Recep Tayyip Erdogan , the ambitions of Syria 's Kurds threaten to spur nationalist subversion within Turkey 's own Kurdish communities . In 2019 , Erdogan sent his army to establish a 30-kilometer-wide ' security zone ' in northern Syria and push Kurdish fighters away from the Turkish border , an area where the Kurds had seized the opportunity of the civil war to consolidate an autonomous enclave . <p> Jolani now must work hard to find a compromise between the Kurds ' desire to maintain their autonomy and Turkey 's ambitions to keep them away from the border area . Will Erdogan tolerate Kurdish territorial gains that he sees as a threat to Turkey 's national security ? Will Jolani , who aspires to nationwide support , allow Turkey to wage war against the Kurds while he tries to form a governing coalition with them and uphold Syria 's territorial sovereignty ? <p> Notwithstanding his chronic conflict with Syria 's Kurds , Erdogan views Assad 's fall as a grand achievement . He was ecstatic in following the rebel forces ' advance . ' Idlib , Hama , Homs , and the target , of course , is Damascus . ... Our wish is that this march in Syria continues without incident ' , he said after last Friday 's prayers in Istanbul . <p> For years , Erdogan and his Qatari allies have been supporting Islamist groups throughout the Middle East . He saw himself in competition with the Iranians on what model of Islamic democracy should prevail in Muslim lands : the Shia fundamentalist brand or Turkey 's more moderate form . Now he believes he has won the opportunity to shape such a model close to home . <p> Although Syria 's rebels have much to thank Israel for in creating the conditions for their success , Israel harbours no illusions about its new neighbours . Al-Jolani was born in Syria 's Golan Heights ( hence the name Jolani ) , which Israel captured in the 1967 war , and whose annexation and sovereignty was recognised by US President Donald Trump in 2019 . <p> With the rebel march on Damascus , Israel lost no time in deploying combat units along the Syrian border . Israel is concerned about potential spillovers of armed groups into the Golan Heights and attempts to attack Druze villages on the Syrian side of the border , whose residents have relatives in villages on the Israeli side . With the memory of October 7 still raw everywhere in Israel , there is no complacency about weapons stockpiles in the hands of Islamists on the border . <p> But Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's hubris should not be underestimated . If the Syrian tyranny collapsed , why not try to topple Iran 's as well ? Already , Netanyahu could not resist the temptation of going beyond mere defensive measures : arguing that the 1974 agreement that regulated the separation of forces between Israel and Syria had collapsed , he ordered Israeli troops to seize control of the Syrian part of Mount Hermon , as well as the buffer zone in Syria 's sovereign territory and the dominant positions adjacent to it . <p> Key US allies in the region are similarly worried . They , too , would have liked to see Assad remain in power , fearing that an Islamist-controlled Syria could become a haven for terrorism . In their view , Assad was a known quantity -- and better than an Islamist rebel-led government , however moderate it claims to be . <p> But now Assad is gone . The Middle East is again in a state of dramatic flux that calls for everybody , winners and losers alike , to recalibrate their policies .
