<h> Save articles for later <p> Add articles to your saved list and come back to them any time . <p> Advertisement <p> The year of democracy , as 2024 has been designated , is ending on an epic and frenetic note . Events are moving at such a hurtling pace and history is coming at us so thick and fast that it feels reminiscent of my student days in 1989 , after the fall of the Berlin Wall , when professors would tear up the dog-eared lectures they had delivered unthinkingly for decades because they were so quickly becoming obsolete . <p> This month has witnessed a string of dramatic December surprises . In Syria , more than 50 years of homicidal rule by the Assad family has come to a lightning end . A 13-year civil war , which had largely slipped from the headlines , was completely upended in little more than a week as anti-government rebels first seized Aleppo , the country 's second city , then raced to capture the capital , Damascus . <p> Illustration by Dionne Gain <p> Bashar al-Assad is a murderous thug , who fled like a coward into the arms of Vladimir Putin , his long-time sponsor . But seductive though it is to see his fall as a triumph for freedom in the battle against an axis of authoritarians , the rebels primarily responsible for his downfall are from jihadist group , Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham . History is rarely clear-cut . <p> South Korea last week witnessed a shock return to martial rule when President Yoon Suk Yeol mounted a short-lived power grab in which military helicopters circled above the National Assembly in Seoul and soldiers stormed through its gates . This economic and cultural powerhouse , known in recent times for its K-pop and Oscar-winning movie industry , harked back to the dark days of military dictatorship last seen at the start of the 1980s . <p> Events in France were not so explosive . Nonetheless , in the same week that Notre Dame reopened is renovated doors after the 2019 blaze , the French parliament came to resemble a dumpster fire . For the first time since 1962 , parliamentarians passed a no-confidence vote , which has made Michel Barnier , an urbane Gaullist , the shortest-serving prime minister in the history of the Fifth Republic . His brief tenure brought to mind that pungent observation from Charles de Gaulle : " How can you govern a country which has 246 varieties of cheese ? " <p> Over the weekend , as if to add an extra frisson , there was an American in Paris . The beleaguered French president Emmanuel Macron invited Donald Trump to attend the reopening ceremonies of Notre Dame . " It certainly seems like the world is a little crazy right now , " said Trump , seemingly oblivious to how he has contributed to the craziness . <p> President-elect Donald Trump is greeted by French President Emmanuel Macron in Paris on Saturday.Credit : AP <p> In Washington , Joe Biden , in a dubious use of his presidential pardon power , granted clemency to his son , Hunter . On Capitol Hill , Republicans mulled whether to entrust the Pentagon , America 's most mighty ministry , to Pete Hegseth , a former Fox News host nominated by Trump to be defence secretary who faces accusations of sexual misconduct and excessive drinking . Neither episode showed America , which still likes to think of itself as the beacon of democracy , in a glowing light . <p> New York , meanwhile , felt more like Gotham . The murder of the United Healthcare chief executive Brian Thompson , who was gunned down in midtown Manhattan , has made a folk hero of his killer , whose bullets were inscribed with the words " delay " and " depose " . This evoked phraseology used in the health insurance industry , " delay , deny , defend " , which have become bywords for corporate greed and the financial ruin of patients unable to pay exorbitant bills . The alleged assassin is being feted as a modern-day Robin Hood . The coat he wore has become an instant bestseller . <p> Advertisement <p> From a geopolitical viewpoint , what makes these events more meaningful and portentous is their interconnectedness . Assad fell largely because his sponsors had been weakened by major conflicts elsewhere : Vladimir Putin in Ukraine , Hezbollah in south Lebanon , and Iran in Gaza , Lebanon and Yemen . <p> Loading <p> The chaos in South Korea has shades of Trumpian democratic norm-busting , and echoes of the aftermath of January 6 . Like Trump 's Republican Party , Yoon 's People Power Party has not sought the impeachment of the president , and boycotted the vote held on Saturday night to force the president from office . Yoon himself -- who was previously best known internationally for singing American Pie at a 2023 state dinner with Joe Biden -- had portrayed himself as a victim of a political witch-hunt after his wife , First Lady Kim Keon-Hee , faced accusations of stock manipulation and receiving a luxury Christian Dior handbag . <p> In France , Michel Barnier lost his prime ministership because the snap elections called in June by Macron to fend off the French far right , after its success in the European parliament elections , produced such a divided National Assembly in Paris . Elections that Macron hoped might serve as a safety valve only added to the gridlock . And just as paralysis in Washington helped fuel the rise of Donald Trump , paralysis in Paris could boost the far-right Marine Le Pen . <p> As for the murder of a healthcare executive , and the valorisation of his alleged murderer , it reminds us of why Trump survived his insurrectionary role on January 6 , 2021 . So intense is the rage against the corporate and governing status quo that many Americans are willing to countenance -- or at least forgive -- violent remedies . Eerily , the Manhattan murder brings to mind Trump 's famous 2016 maxim that he could " stand in the middle of Fifth Avenue and shoot somebody " without losing any voters . <p> Loading <p> The war in the Middle East . The battle for Ukraine . The departure of Bashar al-Assad . The restoration of Donald Trump . The ground is shifting everywhere . Nothing is fixed and certain . Perhaps we should rethink the designation of 2024 as the year of democracy . Maybe we should think of it as the year of everything , everywhere , all at once . <p> Nick Bryant , a former BBC Washington correspondent , is the author of The Forever War : America 's Unending Conflict with Itself .
