<h> Adding fuel to fire of intolerance , extremism <h> Save articles for later <p> Add articles to your saved list and come back to them any time . <p> Advertisement <p> Credit : Illustration : Megan Herbert <p> To submit a letter to The Age , email letters@theage.com.au . Please include your home address and telephone number below your letter . No attachments . See here for our rules and tips on getting your letter published . <h> ANTISEMITISM <p> Yet again we have conflated claims that anyone who speaks out against Israeli action in Gaza is antisemitic.I have long supported Israel 's right to existence , as do I support the Palestinians ' right to a homeland . Support and sympathy for Palestinians does in no way mean support for Hamas or like-minded groups.I believe Israel 's actions in Gaza are wrong , as do most UN countries and many Australians . Hamas ' heinous crimes against innocent Israelis were indefensible . The barbarians who committed those crimes should be punished . However , Israeli government claims that it is defending itself , after 14 months of pulverising innocent Palestinian civilians , is ludicrous.Why should I , in my own country , be filled with trepidation about making such a view public ? Those Jewish organisations and federal politicians such as Peter Dutton and his cohort , who insinuate that criticism of Israel 's actions is antisemitic are adding fuel to the fire of intolerance and extremism.Geoff Brown , Wodonga <p> Hatred of a government not hatred of its peopleThe authorities will hopefully catch the perpetrators of the firebombing of the Melbourne synagogue , but let 's not allow hysteria or partisanship to operate here . Palestinian supporters have been peacefully demonstrating in Melbourne for 12 months against the Israeli government 's brutal destruction of Palestine.Antisemitism is an ancient , hatred of the Jewish people . It 's easily fostered , as was the hatred of Muslims here not that long ago . Let 's not confuse anti-Israeli government criticism with hatred of its people , wherever they live . Many Jews like myself , vigorously condemn Israel for its destruction of Palestinians , not just recently , but historically . That does n't make us antisemitic , just believing in justice.Marion Harper , Reservoir <p> Attack against one is an attack against us allRe the news report ? ? ? This is an attack on all Jews in Melbourne ' : Leaders reeling after attack ? ? , 7/12 ) . The haters do n't check our political views to ensure they do n't firebomb " the wrong Jews " . Hamas did not spare the left-wing kibbutzim in the south of Israel who employed Palestinian workers and treated them like family.There are no " good Jews " ( who denounce the Israeli government 's actions or protest " genocide ? ? ) or " bad Jews " . To the haters , there are just Jews . From our perspective , an attack against one of us is an attack against all of us . This war is our war.David Werdiger , Caulfield North <p> ASIO warning goes unheededIn August 2024 , the head of ASIO Mike Burgess is reported to have said that inflammatory language used by politicians can potentially lead to violence.He also said that following the attacks on October 7 , 2023 , the efforts to tone down political rhetoric is not going as well as he would like . The recent horrendous firebombing of a Melbourne synagogue is unacceptable and there is no place for this type of hate in our Australian multicultural society.The warning issued by Burgess appears to have fallen on deaf ears when it comes to some of our politicians.Gary Roulston , Endeavour Hills <p> Let police investigators determine nature of attackOnce again , we see evidence why Peter Dutton and the LNP are n't ready to become the government . To call on the Albanese government to declare the despicable firebombing of the synagogue a terrorist act is both presumptive and deliberately inflammatory.Until the police advance their investigations to a point where they can , based on evidence , declare it to be a terrorist act , then everyone should let them do their job without perceived political pressure.Jumping to conclusions for the sake of politics is more than unhelpful . Peter Dutton , James Paterson and Josh Frydenberg should take note.Philip West , Jan Juc <p> Netanyahu 's claimsIt is disgraceful that the Adass Israeli synagogue was attacked , a place where the ultra-orthodox community gather to pray . But it is equally disgraceful that Benjamin Netanyahu has linked this attack to Australia 's voting in favour of the UN General Assembly resolution calling on Israel to withdraw from the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip.It seems Netanyahu takes every opportunity to make a claim of antisemitism . It is no wonder that his leadership of the Jewish people continually puts them in danger when he makes claims which give rise to hatred and causes further confusion and conflict.Julie Ottobre , Brunswick East <p> Stand up , AlbaneseIs it any surprise that Netanyahu , a man accused of corruption at home , war crimes and genocide , condemns our Labor government for supporting 157 other countries in their recognition of the illegal occupation by Israel of Gaza and the West Bank ? And no further surprise that he makes the absurd link between Labor 's long overdue stance and the recent destruction of the Adass Israel synagogue in Ripponlea.Netanyahu is the man who recently acknowledged that he authorised countless pagers all over Lebanon to explode causing unspeakable suffering and destruction.This , on top of the countless thousands of killed and maimed innocent Palestinians , and more recently , Lebanese , a daily carnage that seems to have been ? ? normalised ? ? since that terrible day of October 7 , 2023 . How disappointing that our prime minister did not immediately reprimand this man 's outrageous interference with Australia 's political position on this or any other issue . How disappointing that Anthony Albanese did n't stand on his own political and moral feet , rather than hide behind the fact that other ? ? Five Eyes ? ? countries share the same position on Israel 's longstanding and illegal occupation.Jill Toulantas , Clifton Hill <p> Advertisement <p> Inconvenient factsWhen Robert Manne ( ? ? Lunch with ... ? ? 7/12 ) says Israel will be ? ? morally sunk ? ? as long as it holds on to the West Bank and Gaza , does he not give it some dispensation for its many efforts to negotiate a peace with the Palestinians that would have seen Israel leave almost all of that territory ? Does he also regard the Palestinian Authority as ? ? morally sunk ? ? for rebuffing those efforts ? Or does he ignore those inconvenient facts ? Robert Friedman , Caulfield North <h> THE FORUM <p> Fine and free educationAs a Baby Boomer , I enjoyed a free Melbourne University law degree ; essentially a " trade qualification " devoid of heart . Within a few years of entering the professional grind , I enrolled in an undergraduate arts degree in English and classics at very minimal cost.The quality and dedication of the academic staff I encountered at Monash was simply astounding , and I daily give thanks for the passion instilled in me for English poetry from Anglo-Saxon to contemporary and for a love of ancient history , Homer , Virgil , Horace , and so many others . The arts degree gave me everything I could ever have wanted from a university experience.Neil Falconer , Castlemaine <p> Environmental lossThe last-minute shelving of the popular nature-positive laws was a very disappointing end to the parliamentary year . In 2020 , after the damning State of the Environment Report , Labor promised to " administer Australia 's environmental protection laws to better protect nature , while supporting sustainable development " , and that this would " include stronger powers to ensure effective compliance and enforcement " . More than 30,000 submissions were received supporting stronger environmental laws . Since then , Tanya Plibersek has worked hard to negotiate an agreement with the Greens on this legislation , which includes stricter controls on illegal land-clearing and breaches of environmental standards.But at the eleventh hour , after conferring with WA Premier Cook , the prime minister changed his tune . Did the bill fail to get through because the numbers were n't there , or did Albanese do a backflip ? It seems progress on environmental protections has been overridden by mining interests and the need for safe Labor seats in Western Australia . This is a loss for Australia 's iconic threatened species , and for the vast majority of Australians who favour stronger environmental protections.Anne O'Hara , Wanniassa , ACT <p> Park promisesYour article by Bianca Hall and Benjamin Preiss ( " National parks promises broken " , 8/12 ) highlights the fine line walked when considering the care of the environment as opposed to the rights of people to enjoy these wilderness areas.Indigenous cultural heritage must be considered to respect the beliefs of First Nations people and their attachment to the land.Activities that have a detrimental effect on the environment should be considered inappropriate for national parks . These could include trail bike riding and hunting.National parks offer the opportunity to immerse oneself in nature and are a safeguard against environmental destruction . It is well-known that experiencing natural wilderness can help with our mental well-being.The state government should not renege on its promises to create more national parks , and they should be open for people to enjoy environmentally and culturally appropriate activities.Graeme Lechte , Brunswick West <p> Majority concernsIt 's ominous that hunting lobby group Field and Game Australia supports the current review of Parks Victoria . The " outdoors recreation " alliance of shooters , 4WD enthusiasts , trail-bikers , climbers and fossickers , might seem to have the premier 's ear for its claims of " locking us out " . Another analysis might see this group as " minority noisies " ( a Gina Rinehart phrase ) . Most Victorians do not engage in any of those pursuits ; we want to protect precious habitat and wildlife for future generations . Labor 's environmental policies are out of touch with mainstream voters.Joan Reilly , Surrey Hills <p> Forest for the treesThe Allan government should reconsider its abandoned promise to convert certain state parks to national ones . Doing so , would help with another less acknowledged problem ; in spite of the logging of our state forests supposedly finishing at the start of this year , the heavy machinery is often still there . The big trees are still coming down . It seems the main problem is that forests are now " managed " by the Forest Fire Management Victoria . FFMV does n't have to comply with state or federal ecological laws and because the Office of the Conservation Regulator is in the same Victorian government department , no one is overseeing FFMV operations.In effect , a new fox has been given unimpeded access to the hen house . And the state opposition is promising to bring back the first fox . Federal oversight might offer some protection for our beleaguered forests.Mark Wills , Northcote <p> Parks Victoria fundingI agree " Parks Victoria 's current operations need to be improved to meet community expectations " , as the minister says . The way to meet community expectations is to adequately fund the operations of Parks Victoria to enable it to properly manage our parks for conservation and recreation.Bruce McGregor , Brunswick <p> Rough road aheadMany letter writers bemoan the poor state of our roads and after a few days driving in country Victoria one can only agree . I drive a big 12-year-old diesel 4WD of the sort that regularly draws bleats of criticism from inner urban types.Until our government starts looking after the transport interests of the whole state and not just the cosseted inhabitants of inner Melbourne , I will continue to drive my old " tank " as it provides the necessary level of comfort , safety and protection on our appalling country roads.Greg Hardy , Upper Ferntree Gully <p> Makeup is a choiceKate Halfpenny ( " How does ditching makeup help the everyday woman ? " 7/12 ) , states that Pamela Anderson is being held up as the poster child for a new kind of beauty standard by going " sans makeup " , and that this is somehow unattainable for the average woman.I 'm a 39-year-old woman , mum of two , with bags under my eyes and nearing my pre-menopausal days . I have n't worn makeup since I was in my early twenties . My day is actually easier , not harder , by going makeup free , and my skin is better off without it . I also save a lot of money.However , I never once think that I am morally superior to those who do wear makeup.Rather than labelling the " no makeup moment " as another marketing strategy or conformist movement , instead viewing it as whether you wear makeup or not , is up to you.Anna Radywonik , Moonee Ponds <p> Property ladder fixI enjoyed Victoria Devine 's ? ? Property not only path to security ? ? ( 8/12 ) , but I beg to differ . In Australia , retirement without home ownership consigns many lower income earners with poor superannuation to a life of poverty.We are not like the Germans and Swiss with many long leases and corporate landlords.Australia still has many individual property owners , though this is decreasing.We do need to boost public housing and cap negative gearing to one or two properties before it becomes too hard to change.We do need to reduce the capital gains tax discount.Owning one 's home gives a strong sense of contentment , pride , the ability to transfer ownership , and of course , security.Robert Blakeley , Horsham <h> AND ANOTHER THING <p> Woolworths decisionCongratulations to all unionists who sacrificed their time and wages and won against Woolworths . Dare to struggle dare to win.Mary Fenelon , Doncaster East <p> Congratulations to Woolworths workers for reminding all workers of the imperative to have a say in the introduction of AI at workplaces.Malcolm McDonald , Burwood <p> Maybe Woolies ' management was worried about workers spending an extra minute or two in the toilet reading Orwell 's 1984 . <p> Bernd Rieve , Brighton <p> Give me a growers ' market any day of the week.John Bye , Elwood <p> FurthermoreRe : " Heads we win , tails you lose " , ( 8/12 ) . Two family members had their betting accounts suspended for " not using the promotion products in the spirit intended " . In other words : winning.Peter McGill , Lancefield <p> Peter Norman 's Australian 200-metre record stood for 56 years . His solidarity with Tommie Smith and John Carlos at the 1968 Olympic Games 200-metre medal presentation is etched into our memories in photographic images . It seems fitting his record was broken by Gout Gout.Belinda Burke , Hawthorn <p> Re : new housing towers , ? ? A lot of effort to get where you started ? ? . When will our state government listen to experienced housing experts and refurbish rather than redevelop existing towers ? Lindsay Donahoo , Wattle Glen <p> Low economic growth -- bad for the economy . High economic growth -- bad for the prospects of an imminent interest rate reduction . Seems the government is in a lose-lose situation.Garry Meller , Bentleigh <p> Dale Carnegie wrote How to Win Friends and Influence People . Netanyahu , with his black v white and no middle-ground political vision , has rewritten it as " How to lose friends and influence people " . Barrie Bales , Woorinen North <p> The opinion newsletter is a weekly wrap of views that will challenge , champion and inform your own . Sign up here .
