<p> Anthony Albanese is facing fresh criticism over a vote at the United Nations , where Australia supported a ceasefire in Gaza and defended the work of the UN agency for Palestinian refugees . <p> The head of the Australian Jewish Association called the votes another betrayal from the government , with the Coalition also accusing the Prime Minister of gaslighting when he claimed he was n't sure what the UN votes were about during a visit to the Sydney Jewish Museum . <p> This comes on top of seething scrutiny pointed at the PM over his delayed response to the antisemitic attacks on Sydney and Melbourne 's Jewish community in recent weeks. ? <p> Subscribe to the Today newsletter here . ( Nine ) Prime Minister Anthony Albanese was swarmed by a large crowd and heckled by some onlookers during a chaotic visit to the Melbourne synagogue that was firebombed in a terror attack last week . ( 9News ) <p> " Look , he was very late to the game on that and it was really noted , particularly in my area in Waverley , I represent a very strong Jewish community and they have been really feeling the fear , " Bondi Councillor and Nova news director , Michelle Stephenson told Today . <p> " The attacks on the Jewish people in my community are incredibly , incredibly dangerous and we have been seeing it every single day , there is graffiti we are taking off of walls every single day , it is just insane and the people who do n't understand how dangerous this rhetoric can be really need to take a look at themselves . <p> " And the fact that Albo was swanning about and not really taking this seriously , particularly after what we saw in Melbourne , I think he 's trying to make up some time , but I think it 's too little , too late for a lot of the community . " <p> Albanese announced $8.5 million in funding for the Sydney Jewish Museum , in the city 's east , after the spate of antisemitic attacks . <p> Speaking from the Jewish Museum in Darlinghurst on Wednesday , the PM said he unequivocally condemned the " shameful " violent acts . <p> " We need an end to antisemitism , it is evil , it diminishes us as a nation , to see since then as well , there 's been graffiti ... that is completely abhorrent to who we are as Australians , " Albanese told reporters . <p> Albanese said the additional funding would ensure that " we learn the lessons of history that this museum shows us " .
