<h> Gaza : Australia votes in favour of United Nations Relief and Works Agency ceasefire <p> Camera IconAustralia has voted in favour of a ceasefire in Gaza . Credit : JUSTIN LANE/EPA <p> Australia has joined more than 150 countries at the United Nations to vote in favour of a ceasefire in Gaza and to support the mandate of humanitarian relief agency UNRWA . <p> The vote to back an immediate , permanent ceasefire in Gaza and call for a reversal of Israel 's decision to ban the main UN aid agency operating in the war-torn Gaza Strip was opposed by the US but backed by Canberra 's other Five Eyes allies , the UK , Canada and New Zealand . <p> The Emergency Special Session of the New York-based assembly also urged the release of remaining Israeli hostages who were seized by Hamas on October 7 , 2023 , the upholding of international humanitarian law to protect civilians and a push towards peace and a two-state solution . <p> The two votes did not change the Australian government 's long held positions on calling for a ceasefire , backing the humanitarian work of UNRWA , and advocating for a two-state solution . <p> But it comes at a time of increased tensions in Australia over accusations that the Government has acted too slowly to tackle a rise in anti-Semitism , and amid intensified scrutiny of Australia 's position on the Middle East . <p> His comments followed a recent UN vote where Australia joined 156 other countries to demand Israel end its " unlawful presence " in the Occupied Palestinian Territories . <p> The Government has also previously come under fire for its support of UNRWA after it was revealed that at least nine of its employees took part in the October 7 attacks on Israel . <p> Prime Minister Anthony Albanese defended the Government 's approach to the latest votes following a visit to the Sydney Jewish Museum on Wednesday to announce an $8.5 million fund for upgrades . <p> " There 's no change to Australia 's position . Australia 's position is we support a two-state solution .. The right of Israel to exist in secure borders , " he said , underscoring the need for all hostages to be released . <p> " There 's no role for Hamas in any future Palestinian state . But over a period of time along with a range of other countries , the United States has been attempting to advance the issue of a long-term solution that would involve the engagement of states in the region as well , all recognising Israel . " <p> Asked about the reason for the Government 's support of the resolutions on ABC Radio National Breakfast , Anne Aly , Minister for Youth , said : " We need to find a resolution and a pathway to peace in the Middle East , and particularly in Israel and Gaza , for the safety of Palestinians and for the safety and the security and the future of Israelis as well . " <p> But shadow minister for home affairs James Paterson accused the Prime Minister of " gas lighting " the Australian Jewish Community . <p> " One of the reasons why this is important is not just because our foreign policy is important , not just because standing with our allies and friends like the United States is important , but because we know that anti-Semites in Australia conflate Israel with Jews " he told Sky News . <p> " We had another powerful demonstration of that this week in Sydney where cars in an area populated by the Jewish community were set on fire and graffiti targeted Israel . They do n't draw any distinction between Israel and Jews , " he said . <p> " So when the Australian government abandons or even worse , vilifies Israel , anti-Semites take encouragement from that and that gives them license and that 's why it 's a serious problem . "
