<h> Save articles for later <p> The growing fear of Australia 's Jewish community is a sorrowful new reality for a nation built partly on providing sanctuary from old-world oppressions . <p> The latest atrocity , an early-morning attack in Woollahra to intimidate Sydney 's Jewish community , regrettably triggered political finger-pointing instead of a united front against inherent evil . <p> Antisemitic acts have occasionally traduced Australian life since the 1960s . But a palpable uptick has followed Hamas ' brutal October 7 attack last year : they included an arson attack in June on the Melbourne office of Labor MP Josh Burns , graffiti at Bronte , Tamarama and Bondi beaches , the torching of a ute and homes sprayed with graffiti in Woollahra last month , the firebombing of Adass Israel synagogue in the Melbourne suburb of Ripponlea last Friday morning , a Brisbane man charged with making online threats towards a Jewish community centre in Victoria , and now another graffiti attack and car burning at Woollahra . <p> Loading <p> Amid the outbreaks , the Albanese government has banned the Nazi salutes , swastikas and other hate symbols in public , appointed Jillian Segal as special envoy to combat antisemitism and promised to finance rebuilding of the synagogue . An Australian Federal Police task-force is investigating the terrorist attack at Ripponlea , while federal counterterrorism specialists look at Woollahra . <p> Meanwhile , Australia 's problems also erupted into an international incident when Israel 's Prime Minister , Benjamin Netanyahu , linked our vote on recent United Nations resolutions on Gaza for a two-state solution to the attack on the Melbourne synagogue , saying an " anti-Israel sentiment is antisemitism " . <p> The opposition seized on Netanyahu 's words , but Prime Minister Anthony Albanese has reiterated there is no place for antisemitism in Australia . He is hardly the first prime minister to do so : Paul Keating , John Howard , Kevin Rudd , Julia Gillard , Tony Abbott , Malcolm Turnbull and Scott Morrison have all condemned the rise of antisemitism in Australia . <p> But a massive political change occurred on Wednesday when the opposition accused an Australian government of the day of fomenting antisemitism . <p> Liberal senator Jane Hume told Seven 's Sunrise that the Jewish community was looking for leadership on this issue . " Sadly , the equivocation of the government , of the prime minister , has emboldened and enabled those that are committing these horrific crimes that are unfair on a really important section of our society and our community , in our Jewish community , " Hume said . <p> Loading <p> Advertisement <p> Hume 's hyperbole has been matched by the conspiracy theories of Antoun Issa , the chief of staff to the Greens ' deputy leader , Senator Mehreen Faruqi , who claimed the synagogue attack could have been perpetrated by supporters of an Israeli state to provoke outrage about antisemitism . " It could very well be a white supremacist or someone enraged by the genocide or a Zionist false flag , " he posted on Instagram . <p> He has since been reprimanded . But the wild claims of Issa and Hume are unacceptable . In these dangerous days , people on the public payroll should be versed in the difference between public and private lives and be cognisant of the effect of their careless words on a community scared for their lives . <p> The Herald 's View -- Since the Herald was first published in 1831 , the editorial team has believed it important to express a considered view on the issues of the day for readers , always putting the public interest first .
