<h> Save articles for later <p> Anthony Albanese seemed to put his finger on something when he diagnosed a certain " conflict fatigue " in the electorate after Labor 's shock defeat to Scott Morrison in the 2019 federal election . <p> He has tried to avoid picking fights since he took over the Labor leadership and crept into power using a small target strategy in 2022 . <p> Prime Minister Anthony Albanese attended the opening of the queer museum QTopia in Sydney in February . The museum is a pet project of Lachlan and Sarah Murdoch.Credit : Dean Sewell <p> And there is one fight that Albanese really hoped to avoid . That 's a fight with the 800-pound gorilla of Australian politics -- News Corporation -- which has become Labor 's natural enemy in the past decade , backing the Coalition in almost every state or federal election since 2007 . <p> The PM has tried to appease -- if not please -- News Corp since taking office . Unlike his predecessor Bill Shorten , Albanese has made himself available to News journalists and by a rough tally has appeared on Sky News daytime more often than he has granted interviews to any other Canberra bureau . That 's been noticed at News Corp . <p> Under pressure from News , Communications Minister Michelle Rowland has eschewed a proposed ban on gambling advertising , dropped a bill to combat mis- and disinformation , and legislated the Murdoch tabloids ' proposal to somehow ban kids from social media . <p> The PM has visited News Corp headquarters at Holt Street on multiple occasions since 2022 -- and was schmoozing editors there only a few weeks ago in an unreported visit , multiple sources say . I understand he has regular dialogue with the editors of all the major News Corp mastheads . <p> Loading <p> Albanese has also gone out of his way to meet privately with News Corp executive chairman Lachlan Murdoch , who took over after founder Rupert retired last year , and attended functions near and dear to the successor 's heart . The PM was there for the opening of queer museum QTopia in February -- part-funded by the Lachlan and Sarah Murdoch Foundation . <p> He joined in the celebration of The Australian 's 60th anniversary in July , and wrote an essay for the occasion . Last week he turned up early for an amicable private chat with 93-year-old Rupert -- visiting Sydney for the first time since 2018 -- at Lachlan and Sarah 's annual Christmas party at their Bellevue Hill mansion , Le Manoir . <p> Advertisement <p> Too bad . According to a report in this masthead on Tuesday , the PM warned cabinet colleagues at a meeting on Monday that the government is under determined attack from News Corp 's Australian media outlets , which were working to elect Peter Dutton . <p> According to four cabinet ministers who leaked news of the warning , the PM " said News Corp and the opposition were now working hand in glove and that this was an embedded part of the political dynamic that we all needed to deal with " . <p> Albanese was immediately lampooned on Sky News after dark , with host James Macpherson joking last night about those " evil journalists " at News Corp who had it in for the PM , and pondering whether the " slow downward polling trend is all because of the tactics of the conservative press " . <p> " I 'm not sure if Anthony Albanese should be more worried about News Corp , or about his cabinet members leaking what he is saying to them in private meetings , " Macpherson said . <p> A year ago , even through the divisive Voice referendum , there was a certain warmth and spirit of co-operation between News Corp and the Albanese government . <p> But Lachlan Murdoch has certainly made his presence felt since he took over as executive chair at News Corp in September 2023 . And there is perhaps no issue on which he has been more outspoken and more highly engaged in Australia than the need to condemn antisemitism . He spoke passionately about it at News Corp 's journalism awards last November , saying there was " no room for equivocation " , and in January he visited Israel and met Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . To a man and woman , Murdoch 's employees have got the message loud and clear . <p> Whatever one thinks of Netanyahu 's conduct of the devastating retaliatory campaign in Gaza since the horrific Hamas attacks of October 7 , it is inarguable that there should be zero tolerance of antisemitism here in Australia . Whether you call Israel-Gaza a just war , or by now call it a genocide , there seems no doubt that the conflict is fuelling a rise in antisemitism here , which must be combated urgently . It is appalling to see the firebombing of a synagogue in Melbourne -- now being treated as a terrorist attack -- and there were more frightening incidents overnight with a car torched and houses vandalised in Woollahra in Sydney 's inner east . <p> Loading <p> This is where the PM , despite his protestations , has put a foot wrong . Never mind the geopolitics ... why did the PM take four whole days to visit the Adass Israel synagogue in Ripponlea ? OK , he was in Perth but The Australian 's front page showing Albanese playing tennis the day after the attack was a classic political " gotcha " -- this masthead ran that story too . Could he or one of his well-paid flacks not have seen that coming ? <p> From what I can tell , there is not yet an all-out war on the Albanese government by News Corp , unlike in 2013 when TheDaily Telegraph rounded on Kevin Rudd with its famous " KICK THIS MOB OUT " headline , or in 2022 when the Herald Sun decried " TOXIC DAN " in a campaign against then-Victorian premier Daniel Andrews ' government ( he won by a landslide ) . <p> But the days of The Daily Telegraph 's " Save Our Albo " campaign , when Albanese was in a death-struggle with the Greens in Grayndler in 2016 , are long gone . <p> The PM is in a fight whether he likes it or not . News Corp is powerful , but not as powerful as it used to be . Albanese might as well start punching -- maybe even land a few . <p> Paddy Manning is author of The Successor : The High-Stakes Life of Lachlan Murdoch ( Black Inc , 2022 ) and reporter on the ABC 's Background Briefing podcast , " Murdoch 's Endgame " . <p> The Opinion newsletter is a weekly wrap of views that will challenge , champion and inform your own . Sign up here .
