<h> Removing the flags is an act of division <h> Save articles for later <p> Add articles to your saved list and come back to them any time . <p> Advertisement <p> Credit : Cathy Wilcox <p> To submit a letter to The Age , email letters@theage.com.au . Please include your home address and telephone number . No attachments , please include your letter in the body of the email . See here for our rules and tips on getting your letter published . <p> I would like an explanation from Peter Dutton as to how standing in front of the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander flags along with the Australian flag divides us as a nation . I would have thought the opposite ; that standing in front of those three flags means that all Australians will feel equally represented . On the other hand , omitting the two flags actually seems to be divisive , as many of our Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Australians do not feel well represented by the Australian flag , with its inclusion of the Union Jack . But then again , Peter Dutton was the architect of the defeat of the Voice referendum , and he refused to attend parliament for the apology on behalf of the nation to Australia 's Indigenous peoples in 2008 . There appears to be a pattern here.Mark Thomson , Beaumaris <p> A statement to break the heartIn a step back to the 20th century , Peter Dutton states that he wo n't use the Indigenous flags if he becomes PM . How heartbreaking for our First Nations peoples to hear a political leader say that . Clearly , Dutton and the Coalition are bereft of policy ideas at this time of economic and social hardship , and totally blind to the particular difficulties experienced by many Indigenous people and to their heartache following the negative outcome of the Voice referendum -- an outcome largely due to the Coalition not supporting it.With no constructive policy ideas , the Coalition once again is resorting to provocative and negative statements which will only take Australia backwards and set off a chain of totally unnecessary bickering.Andrew Trembath , Blackburn <p> The Union Jack must not be in a new flagI agree with Peter Dutton that we should have one flag . But we need a new flag . It should not include the Union Jack , but should incorporate elements relevant to our Indigenous peoples and our aspiration to be an inclusive multinational society.Kristine Holden , Albert Park <p> The flags are official , have been so for 30 yearsPeter Dutton is possibly confused about the Australian Aboriginal Flag . He appears to be inferring it is optional , or it has no validity . In fact , the Australian Aboriginal and the Torres Strait Islander flags were proclaimed as official Australian flags on July 14 , 1995 , and again on January 25 , 2008 . They have been recognised as flags of Australia , under Section 5 of the Flags Act 1953 . If Dutton is proposing to change the Flags Act or the very clear protocol around flying flags , now is the time to articulate how and why . In the meantime , he is not prime minister , so I suppose he could stand in front of anything , if he wants.Nick Murphy , North Carlton <p> Most do favour Dutton 's stanceI suspect that most people will agree to Peter Dutton 's stance on removing the Aboriginal flag for the same reasons that Australians overwhelmingly voted No at the referendum : because they do not support anything that elevates or gives undue prominence to one racial group over all others.Dutton is n't leading the charge here , he 's just read the room better and is responding to the wishes of the majority . The lazy and unimaginative will regard this as just another example of Australia 's supposed inherent racism , but most people genuinely want better outcomes for disadvantaged Indigenous people . They know this can be achieved with bipartisan support through normal legislative processes , not by dubious constitutional tinkering or flag waving tokenism , which only divides the nation even further.Greg Hardy , Upper Ferntree Gully <h> THE FORUM <p> The buck stops with usRoss Gittins ' scorecard ( Comment , 11/12 ) of the Albanese government 's performance is akin to tough love . Gittins ' missive that the government -- motivated by self-preservation -- pushed 45 bills through parliament to be seen to be productive and to give the PM the wriggle room to call an election early next year , is apt . But where does blame ultimately lie in the " era of gutless government " ? Indeed , looking through the prism that Gittins ' asserts politicians abide by -- that ? ? appearance is reality " whereby they do n't have to fix anything to keep the " unthinking punters " happy -- is a big part of the underlying problem.Because the ? ? each-way ? ? bet that Albanese leads his government by is driven by those punters whose expectations of what government can deliver without increasing taxes is unrealistic . Alas , the buck stops ultimately with us -- the " unthinking punters " -- who are getting the governments we successively deserve.Jelena Rosic , Mornington <p> The timid PMRoss Gittins is spot on as usual . The Albanese government is a spineless creature floundering around trying not to offend anyone that counts . His decision to can the Nature Positive legislation , which Tanya Plibersek worked hard to get majority support for is symptomatic of his government . Good policy is watered down or extinguished in case it upsets lobbyists or gives Peter Dutton an opening to attack the government . Anthony Albanese will hand the election to Dutton . Not because people want nuclear power , or want a leader who refuses to stand in front of the Indigenous flag or any other clickbait idea Dutton proposes but because Albanese stands for nothing but timidity and Dutton is selling himself as a man of action.Rohan Wightman , Muckleford <p> Advertisement <p> Independent leadershipRoss Gittins describes the current federal ? ? two-party duopoly ? ? as having ? ? painted itself into a corner with neither side game to do what needs to be done ? ? . With an election looming and a significant chance of minority government , both sides will tell us what a disaster that would be . As though our current state is so wonderful.What else will wake these parties up to stop the institutionalised pandering to powerful interest groups . The community independents are what they say they are -- independent and beholden to no one except their constituents . Sounds good to me.Graeme Booth , Hawthorn <p> Time to reflect , PMThe editorial ( 11/12 ) on the prime minister was an astute , accurate and caring critique . But the time has long gone to thoughtfully point out how he fails to connect with voters . He repeats a formula on all issues , as he 's doing with the fire at the synagogue , and always appears like a politician on autopilot . Photo opportunities , scripted words lacking conviction , then a sudden flurry of activity in government circles , giving a catchy title to action , with the related announcement of big dollars accompanying the initiative . The PM too often lacks any interrelated planning to an issue by his singular stance.He needs to have an honest reflective assessment of his abilities and announce his retirement over the holiday break . He will earn respect for having the courage to make such a decision . And next year 's election will be about constructive policies.Des Files , Brunswick <p> Under the Southern CrossThe Southern Cross without a Union Jack ( 11/12 ) would make a beautiful flag that potentially could unite all Australian peoples.Flags are powerful symbols that can precipitate and foster unity , coming before the fact rather than after.Emma Borghesi , Rye <p> The VCE debacleThe mess created by the Victorian Curriculum and Assessment Authority and its attempts to fix it is absolute proof that you can not unscramble the egg . Try as they may and spin as they do just confirms that the debacle created by the leaking of questions in 65 subjects to some VCE students has created an uneven playing field that can not be made fair in fact or in perception.Peter Randles , Pascoe Vale South <p> Lacking in detailAs Nick Bryant points out , the world is becoming a more dangerous and unpredictable place ( Comment , 10/12 ) Now more than ever , we need an Australian leader of vision and integrity . Your correspondents ( Letters , 10/12 ) have expressed the view that Peter Dutton is not that man.Dutton has failed to provide detail on any of his stated aims and now is questioning the findings of the well respected CSIRO that nuclear energy is too expensive ( ? ? Coalition hits ' hypocrisy ' on nuclear costs " , 10/12 ) . Dutton also uses fear as a political tool , to stoke fears of migration . Consequently 64 per cent of voters favour cutting migration ( 10/12 ) even though Dan Tehan , the opposition immigration spokesman , is unable to name a new migration goal . We need skilled migrants to boost our economy by filling jobs , especially as our birthrate is falling.Australia needs to avoid falling for the rhetoric and empty words of the opposition , otherwise we may end up with a Trump lookalike in Dutton . The future is in our hands.Jan Marshall , Brighton <p> Clash of symbolsWhat a remarkable thing that the alternative prime minister is happy to stand in front of a flag that bears the symbol of the dispossession of our First Nations people and our ongoing sycophantic relationship with a foreign power rather than a flag that proudly proclaims our Indigenous heritage.Ross Christie , Wahroonga , NSW <p> Go our own wayIt seems Peter Dutton can not agree on anything the government does . Now it 's flags . It is about time serious discussion and debate about real issues both within his party and the Labor government took place . " No other country does that " stated Dutton in relation to the flags , well , we are n't any other country , we have the ability and courage to go our inclusive way.Ron Reynolds , Templestowe <p> In praise of WongPenny Wong is a brilliant foreign minister . I love that she avoids useless pleasantries when discussing vitally important matters of state . Instead , she makes her points clearly , as in the article ? ? Wong pushes back against Netanyahu ? ? ( 11/12 ) regarding her honest and reasonable demand that no nation is above the law.For Netanyahu to label her remarks antisemitic , because they are at odds with his overly aggressive , deadly actions , is absurd . Wong cuts through his obfuscation . She does n't pander to anyone , nor should she . She goes to the heart of the matter to find solutions . Australia is stronger for her abilities.Joyce Butcher , Williamstown <p> PM 's useless visitThe prime minister 's much-belated appearance at the firebombed Adass Israel Synagogue in Ripponlea predictably ended in chaos and enmity . I have lived opposite that synagogue for more than 30 years and have been waiting patiently for Anthony Albanese , our national leader , to appear.Four long days later it finally happened . It is , of course , not just this fire that angers locals , both Jews and supporters of Israel alike . For more than 15 months Jews Australia-wide have endured an unprecedented wave of hatred and intimidation , all on his watch.At best , his visit was purely tokenistic , with zero insight about why Jews feel so threatened . He may as well not have turned up.Jeremy Browne , Ripponlea <p> Not above criticismIn parenting , and in teaching , we learn to direct our comments to specific behaviours , not the child his/herself . Similarly , it ought to be possible to criticise Israel for aggressive behaviour in Gaza , Lebanon , and now Syria , without that criticism being labelled " antisemitic ? ? . No country ought to be excused for the kind of behaviour Israel the country currently exhibiting , no matter the history.Claire Merry , Wantirna <p> Cost-benefit analysisYour correspondent ( Letters , 11/12 ) is on the right track . So let me take their argument a step further.If price is the only criterion for the CSIRO , then just measuring electricity cost is only partly helpful . With cost of living always a priority for households , it is far more important and strategic for Australia 's premier scientific research organisation to tell our government how to reduce electricity costs , including the costs of nuclear power.Michael Angwin , Hawthorn <p> Dead cat on the roadAs Australia 's climate wars reignite this time over the costing of nuclear power compared to renewables , the public is left angry and frustrated . But thanks to Mike Foley and Paul Sakkal for reporting : ? ? The seven nuclear plants would supply only a small portion of the nation 's energy needs . The opposition has not revealed its policy on renewables and other energy. ? ? ( ? ? Bowen makes ' hypocritical ' nuclear claims as Dutton accuses scientists of bias ? ? , 10/12 ) . It 's also worth stating that the Coalition has no policy on reducing emissions from other sectors , in particular transport and agriculture . Nuclear is yourclassic dead cat distractor . But only if we let it.Ray Peck , Hawthorn <p> Exceptional sprintersGreg Baum writes ( 9/12 ) that the Olympic sprints ? ? always have been far out of the range of Australian men ? ? . Not so . In 1956 , Hec Hogan won bronze in the 100m and , in 1900 , Stan Rowley won bronze in both the 100m and 200m.Len Armour , Castlemaine <h> AND ANOTHER THING <p> PoliticsPrime Minister Anthony Albanese has become a liability for Labor . He needs to step aside now for Labor to have any chance of winning the next election.Paul Chivers , Box Hill North <p> Ross Gittins ( Comment , 11/12 ) captures our great disappointment and developing anger that the expectations of a Labor government , after 10 years of shoddy Coalition government , are being destroyed.Deborah Rogers , Brighton <p> Standing in front of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander flags divide us ? I never knew Peter Dutton had a sense of humour.Marie Nash , Balwyn <p> Replacing the Union Jack with the Indigenous flag in our current flag would solve the problem.Keith Lawson , Melbourne <p> Perhaps Peter Dutton will stand behind the three flags ? That 'd be great . I 'd rather see them than him.Frank Flynn , Cape Paterson <p> Better ditch the Union Jack , Peter Dutton , if you 're only going to stand in front of one flag.Barry Greer , Balnarring <p> While the Union Jack remains on our flag it represents two countries . The opposition leader 's objection to ATSI flags is as hollow and ignorant as he is.Kristina Olsen , Brunswick <p> FurthermoreSo the Australian Defence Force has souped up its capability with 100 long-range missiles . It may try to prove that the nation is no minnow in confrontation stakes , but in the scheme of hardware distribution among the superpowers it 's nothing more than a Guy Fawkes collection.Hank Dikkenberg , Glenorchy , Tas <p> With New Zealand 's decision to ban greyhound racing , there must be renewed pressure for it to be banned here.Ian Macdonald , Traralgon <p> FinallyThere is no hierarchy of racism . All forms are equally abhorrent.Angela Smith , Clifton Hill
