<h> Save articles for later <p> Add articles to your saved list and come back to them any time . <p> In Islamic traditions , Dunya is this place , the temporal world . Its Koranic reading contains multitudes , but put simply it says earthly life is fleeting , desire is trivial and only God is eternal . The Canadian-Sudanese poet and folk singer Mustafa Ahmed named his new album Dunya too -- after the plane of existence too many of his loved ones have left . <p> " I honestly do n't think I have any desire to sing about anything else . In my lifetime I wo n't be able to arrive at a perfect account of any of the deaths I 've experienced , and I want to give myself a fair shot of crystallising some of these memories , " says Ahmed , who at just 28 has lost more people to gun violence than most Australians could fathom . " That might take my entire life , and probably more . " <p> Ahmed 's older sister Namarig introduced him to poetry . You can watch him recite online , age 12 : " I 'm here/To raise awareness/For those who care/About the injustices/Everywhere " . He 's in Toronto 's Regent Park , where he grew up -- a working-class neighbourhood of deep community ties nonetheless inflicted with violence seeded by poverty and marginalisation . <p> He came to prominence in the hip-hop collective Halal Gang , formed in 2014 , two days before their friend Yusuf " Ano " Ali , 18 , was shot and killed . In 2016 another friend , Julian " Santana " Weekes , was shot dead at 28 ; in 2017 Ali " NSK " Rizeig , 18 , was also shot dead . In 2018 Ahmed 's fellow Halal Gang member , the rapper Jahvante " Smoke Dawg " Smart , 21 , and the hip-hop industry manager Ernest " Koba Prime " Modekwe , 28 , were murdered in a shooting outside a Toronto nightclub . <p> Ahmed 's first album , When Smoke Rises , released after Smart 's death , won a Juno Award ; and he has written for the Weeknd , Camila Cabello and Justin Bieber . But awards and adulation are noise in the face of profound loss and public scrutiny . The Canadian tabloid press shamelessly exploited the deaths . <p> Ahmed , a devout Muslim , needed respite from claustrophobic Western cities . He was born in Canada to Sudanese parents belonging to the Nubian ethnic group indigenous to northern Sudan and southern Egypt , where he decamped in 2021 to reconnect with family , envelop himself in faith and begin writing Dunya . One of the first tracks written , I 'll Go Anywhere , interpolates a childhood melody sung by his parents and features a lush oud arrangement . <p> Advertisement <p> " I wanted to go to another world where I was made anew , where everything that I explored felt like the beginning again . Everything that I looked at , everywhere that I turned , it felt like someone 's world was ending , " Ahmed says . " Egypt appeared to me as a place where I might hear the call to prayer sifting through the streets at 5am . When I was a child I would only ever hear it in my living room . " <p> Egypt gave Ahmed distance from traumatic geography , space to practise his faith and start rebuilding . Previously indigestible books on grieving he 'd been given began making sense . " It begs the question : what use is all this theorisation on mourning , on violence , on the toll it takes on our bodies , when you are in the midst of the very war that caused it ? " he says . <p> Dunya is a continuation of Ahmed 's grieving process , but also contains a heart-rending premonition : " Make sure they bury me next to my brother , " he sings on Leaving Toronto . <p> " Because every kind of person , every kind of innocence , every kind of culprit has succumbed to this violence ; I knew that my brother could as well , " Ahmed says . " When I was writing , the music was no longer about the people that I lost , rather my paranoia around the people that I felt I was going to lose . " <p> Last year , following the album 's recording , Ahmed 's older brother Mohamed was shot dead in his car , aged just 36 . The Toronto Sun tabloid painted the crime in the grisly strokes of mafia dramas and labelled him a " rapper " -- weaponising his art against him through pejorative inaccuracy . <p> " Whose lord are you naming/When you start to break things ? /It 's my only life you hold , " he sings on the album 's staggeringly beautiful opening track Name of God . <p> Advertisement <p> " They used language to demonise him , to make him feel as though he 's not deserving of mourning , " Ahmed says . " That kind of unjust and insincere journalism is an oblivion of its own , but it 's a reminder to me of the responsibility to humanise all of the people that I 've known my entire life , including my own brother . " <p> Muslims believe one 's time in Dunya should be spent pursuing closeness to God through prayer and good deeds , on the way to Akhirah , the afterlife . Ahmed has staged benefit concerts to raise funds for people displaced by the Palestinian genocide and Sudanese civil war -- proceeds from the track Gaza Is Calling will , too -- and his 2021 documentary short Remember Me , Toronto explored gun violence through the self-conceptions of Regent Park youth . <p> " Some days , my only concept of the Akhirah is justice , that it 's the only playing field where people will be held accountable . It helps energise a lot of my efforts here on the ground because I know that even if I do n't see justice in this life I 'll see it in the next one , " he says . <p> Loading <p> Faith and community have again guided Ahmed through his newest grief , for a brother to whom he 'd only recently grown close . He tells me about burial rites and the Janazah funeral prayer ; about how the deeds of the living extend the lives of the dead ; and the mercy of belief . Ahmed 's life has been filled with tragedy , but from Dunya 's delicately strummed guitars and poetic verses rises the undeniable sensation of hope . <p> " That 's why the album is called Dunya , " he says . " As much as it 's a way to mention the material world , speak about its fleeting nature and its illusion , to me it 's also a liberating thing . Where my brother went , what my brother has passed through , is only a passageway to a life that is longer , to an actual infinity that we do n't have access to here . <p> Advertisement <p> " Islam helped contextualise my brother 's passing and every single death that I 've ever experienced , in a way that I do n't think I would have been able to do otherwise . "
