<h> International Bar Association calls out pullbacks on human rights commitments <p> In the wake of Human Rights Day , the International Bar Association 's Human Rights Institute has called out individual states that have reneged on their human rights commitments . <p> In 1948 , countries of different legal and cultural backgrounds pledged to defend universal human rights by adopting the Universal Declaration of Human Rights . However , many have since pulled back on their pledges , the IBAHRI said . <p> " We are at a critical juncture where international law and the rule of law are under threat . Individual states are rolling back on commitments to human rights . Proposed constitutional reforms , such as those adopted in Mexico that will likely undermine the independence of the judiciary , call into question the commitment of states to uphold the rule of law domestically and internationally , " said IBAHRI co-chair Mark Stephens CBE , who used to preside over the Commonwealth Lawyers Association . <p> Stephens highlighted incidents against journalists in Gaza and Hong Kong this year . <p> " Our global information eco-system is in crisis , with unprecedented attacks against truth-tellers , journalists . The highest number in a year have been killed globally owing to the journalists killed in Gaza , " he pointed out . " In many jurisdictions publishers and dissidents are being muzzled , such as in Hong Kong , where the owner of the shuttered Apple News , Jimmy Lai , remains imprisoned as do democracy activists and human rights lawyers Margaret Ng and Martin Lee , as well as democracy activists convicted for their role in organising unofficial primary elections to choose pro-democracy legislative candidates . The picture is bleak indeed . " <p> The IBAHRI also cited issues in Ukraine and Sudan , noting the " rampant " impunity for international law breaches . The Geneva Academy Rule of Law in Armed Conflicts project reported that 27 non-international armed conflicts , 45 international armed conflicts , and 10 situations of military occupation were ongoing . <p> " Many are desperately seeking justice and an end to abuses . Despite this , rather than supporting the independence of international courts , a number of states are challenging the issuing of arrest warrants by the International Criminal Court -- for example in relation to crimes committed in Gaza -- and questioning the independence and work of the court , " the IBAHRI said in a statement . <p> Co-chair Anne Ramberg Dr Jur hc , who was the immediate past secretary general of the Swedish Bar Association , urged governments , civil society organizations and individuals worldwide to unite in a global response to " protect vulnerable populations and uphold human rights . " <p> " Undoubtedly , much needs to be done to give full life to the fundamental human rights and freedoms set out in the UDHR . An invaluable blueprint of equality , fairness , and justice , it has paved the way for human rights treaties , instruments , and laws all over the world , " Ramberg said . " Now more than ever , it is essential that they are recognised as more than just words on paper , but rather , as concrete commitments , to be translated into reality through concerted effort and action . " <p> This year 's Human Rights Day was commemorated on December 10 . <h> Free newsletter <p> Subscribe to our FREE newsletter service and we 'll keep you up-to-date with the latest breaking news , cutting edge opinion , and expert analysis affecting both your business and the industry as whole .
