<h> Booming solar industry will make nuclear power obsolete <h> Save articles for later <p> Add articles to your saved list and come back to them any time . <p> Just days after Peter Dutton first announced his nuclear aspirations , The Economist ( one of the most conservative publications on the planet ) published a story called The Dawn of the Solar Age ( " Dutton 's $400b nuclear gamble " , December 13 ) . <p> The article , based purely on economies of scale driving down costs ( environmental dangers excluded ) , says solar will virtually eliminate nuclear as a power source . Some snippets include that in 2004 it took the world an entire year to install one gigawatt of solar capacity . Now that happens every day . In 2023 , China installed as much solar capacity as the entire world did in 2022 and the rate of installation , worldwide , accelerates as production skyrockets and costs fall . Nuclear , on the other hand , becomes ever-more expensive to build and projects are being abandoned . <p> The Economist says " to bet against solar is to bet against capitalism " . Peter Dutton , Barnaby Joyce and company will continue with their distortions , of course , but money might ultimately talk louder than any politician . Gary Stowe , Springwood <p> The rate of solar installation worldwide is accelerating as production skyrockets and costs fall.Credit : Justin McManus <p> Apart from the high cost , long lead times , reliance on ageing coal generators until nuclear is built and many other problems often cited with nuclear power , another issue receives less attention : by the time any nuclear generation could come online , there will be precious little demand for inflexible , permanently switched-on power . Even now , baseload generation is curtailed when renewable output ( particularly solar ) is high . Expensive baseload power will just not be needed in 2040 . Unless , of course , we want to curtail our renewables to make space for it . Martin Cousins , Lindfield <p> It is good to have the long-awaited costings of the Coalition 's nuclear plans , but before we get too excited , we need to do some extra maths . Labor says its renewables-based system will cost $122 billion . Analysis by Frontier Economics says a more realistic cost is $642 billion , five times as much and , given what we know about cost blowouts on major projects , that is probably a useful guide . If we apply the " times five " formula to Dutton 's plan , then the likely cost , and this is largely a taxpayer imposition , is a scary $2 trillion . Do we really want to risk that ? Don Squires , Lake Cathie <p> There is one real question that Dutton , leader of the party for small government and big business , needs to answer regarding his nuclear policy . If nuclear power is such a great solution for Australia 's energy future , then why has n't private enterprise grabbed the opportunity ? Eric Sekula , Turramurra <p> Advertisement <p> Why on earth would anyone take advice about the least-built energy system in the world from the shadow minister for veterans ' affairs , Barnaby Joyce , who talks about " wind turds " ( and this is after he 's given up the grog ) and comes from a party whose partner ca n't even lodge their electoral candidates on time ? Dorin Suciu , Eleebana <h> PNG needs medicine more than footy <p> As an Australian living in PNG , I wish to highlight the current health crisis being experienced here ( " Australia signs $600m deal to create PNG NRL team " , December 13 ) . The $300 million that Australia committed to redevelop the Australian New Guinea Administrative Unit has given the township of Lae a state-of-the-art hospital , but with not enough medicine or staff to run it . The hospital is short of 500 doctors/nurses and the cancer department currently has a shortage of most chemotherapy medicines . People who should be saved are dying . The $600 million that Australia is committing to build a rugby team in PNG is shameful . True diplomatic relations would have insisted that PNG prioritise its healthcare before building a players ' facility . Marisa Howden , Port Moresby <p> John Kewa with his children Milena , Martina and John-Ryan , are thrilled about the new NRL team . Credit : SMH <p> Given our shared history , I believe a great majority of Australians would have no objection to substantial extra aid , even beyond $600 million , for our beautiful neighbours in PNG . However , the 90 per cent of Australians who do n't give a hoot about rugby league must surely be wondering just who will benefit from the establishment of an extra NRL team . Mike Bush , Port Macquarie <h> Keep the tech giants honest <p> I applaud Labor 's attempt to make social media giants pay for quality news ( " Tech giants on notice as Labor unveils media levy " , November 12 ) . It 's critical that we protect traditional journalism to ensure we have an educated public who vote based on facts and figures , not lies and myths . An inadequately educated public is easily manipulated by dis- and misinformation . Australians now spend an average of two hours a day on this media , which is concerning . The megaphone of social media is increasingly powerful but it takes inadequate responsibility for resulting harm . To protect democracy , we need a population that can tell fact from fantasy and consumes more than a simple headline or short videos . Anne Matheson , Gordon <p> Advertisement <h> Misogyny goes way back <p> Dr Nicholas Wilcken may not be a misogynist , but he can not speak for all male doctors ( " Doctors do n't hate women , but we can be idiots about them " , November 11 ) . The research evidence is very clear -- medical misogyny is rife . Dr Wilcken wonders whether medical misogyny might be " a ripple down from the early 19th century . " If only that were so , it might be easier to eradicate . In his book A Brief History of Misogyny : the World 's Oldest Prejudice , author Jack Holland traces misogyny back to the eighth century BCE . No doubt it predates the earliest records . We have no reason to think that members of the medical profession were or are exempt . Dr Jill Gordon , Roseville <p> Very confronting story of women in labour on the Central Coast being rushed miles away to Sydney hospitals ( " Women in labour face 100km dash to hospital " , December 13 ) . It would be a very different story were it men . Local facilities would be funded and provided very quickly if the boot was on the other foot . Sadly , gender inequality is alive and well everywhere . Elizabeth Kroon , Randwick <h> Teachers are also saviours <p> What a beautifully written tribute to his primary school teachers , and to all teachers , by Louis Wang ( " My teacher and I kept this secret for decades : she saved my life " , December 13 ) . It was an extraordinary day and a 30-year secret for Louis . But it was most likely an ordinary day in the life of his teacher , because teachers spend every day of their careers standing ready to catch their students in the inevitable stumbles of childhood : physical , intellectual , social and emotional . That 's what made my 45 years as a teacher so satisfying and rewarding . Thank you , Louis . Warren Marks , Richmond ( Tas ) <p> How delightful to read the article by Louis Wang on appreciating one 's teachers . I 'm sure there are countless untold stories like his about teachers who influenced people 's lives . It 's gratifying that such a story gets published , as too few in the community publicly praise the great contribution teachers make . Denis Suttling , Newport Beach <p> The article by Louis Wang was so moving and beautiful that it made ploughing through all the other news stories of misbehaviour , doom and gloom more bearable . What a fantastic memory that selfless teacher gave that small child , and how lovely that he wished to share it at Christmas time . Thank you for printing it . Kath Maher , Lidcombe <h> Teals work harder <p> David Crowe may assume Dutton 's surge could unseat teals , but he gets right to the heart of the matter by pointing out they work harder than most in politics , which is well known by voters ( " Dutton 's surge could unseat teals " , December 13 ) . The facts speak for themselves and in my electorate of Mackellar , our community-backed independent Sophie Scamps ' consistently high work rate and achievements make impressive reading . The teal electorates are proud to have representatives in Canberra who take nothing for granted and who will continue to work tirelessly for their communities . Voters are not fools and hopefully Crowe 's assumption that the teals are one-term wonders will be proved wrong at the ballot box . Joy Nason , Mona Vale <h> Economy run on twisted logic <p> An economic system that regards a fall in unemployment as bad news is beyond bizarre ( " Surprise 3.9% jobless rate erodes chances of rate cut " , December 13 ) . I understand the need to control inflation , but that has actually been falling . The RBA insists we need inflation to reach the mid-point of its preferred range . Until then , it seems to want more people out of work , defaulting on mortgages , losing their homes , while making the most vulnerable in society pay for a problem they did not create . And , of course , if the government has to provide more unemployment relief , the right-wing economists and federal opposition will say government spending is to blame for inflation . It makes Marie Antoinette 's advice " Let them eat cake " seem relatively humane and logical . Al Svirskis , Mount Druitt <p> I 'm not particularly enlightened when it comes to economics , but I always find it a little perverse that the sharemarket slumps when unemployment decreases ( " ASX falls following jobs surprise ; Downer EDI , Ventura slump " ; December 12 ) . One would think the news that more people in our community have jobs would be seen as good thing . Instead , it raises fears of inflation . Ross Duncan , Potts Point <p> Advertisement <h> Any donations , Rupert ? <p> It was kind of Rupert Murdoch to visit the firebombed Adass Israel synagogue in Melbourne to " pay our respects and show solidarity with the Jewish community " ( " Rupert Murdoch visits firebombed Melbourne synagogue , " November 12 ) . Considering the cost of rebuilding will be multiple millions and Murdoch 's net worth is more than $30 billion , one would hope that he donated a million or two to help with the rebuild . Geoff Harding , Chatswood <p> I would have thought that Mr and Mrs Murdoch would know that wearing a seatbelt is compulsory while travelling in a motor vehicle . Judging from the photo accompanying the article , neither of them were . However , he could certainly afford the fine if he 'd been pulled over . Rose Lysna , Orange <p> A discussion on the Murdoch family infighting raised the fact that Rupert and Lachlan were afraid that if they stopped pandering to the far right they may lose part of their market share . Apparently they have not considered the possibility that if they ran their news network as a news organisation , not a propaganda wing for ultra conservatives , they may actually attract a larger audience . Fair , reasoned and unbiased news would attract the centre of both left and right , leaving the extremists out in the cold . Doug Steley , Heyfield <h> Trump 's POTY <p> Discerning US citizens should wonder how and why Trump deserved glory on the cover of Time magazine ( " He 's Person of the Year , again ! But Trump 's most powerful years are ahead " , December 13 ) -- especially considering he is a convicted felon for long-standing tax fraud , a relentless evader of justice for his instigation of January 6 insurrection , a sexual abuser and five-times bankrupt . The US is heading to new lows in amnesia of crimes by its wealthy and those with brands they trumpet and bolster for profit . Time magazine seems just another MAGA instrument avoiding " Making America 's Grifters Accountable " . Rob Buchanan , Kerikeri ( NZ ) <p> Advertisement <p> Before Trump gets too big a head about being Time person of the year , he might remember some past " winners " , such as Stalin , Putin and Hitler . Barry Ffrench , Cronulla <h> Ceasefire -- everywhere <p> The Coalition 's contention that Australia has fuelled homegrown antisemitism by joining 158 countries at the United Nations in voting for a ceasefire in Gaza is just political hyperbole . There is no evidence that suggests one is leading to the other . The vote at the UN shows only that Australia , along with the majority of nation members , is seeking a peaceful solution to this great human tragedy . It is shameful for the Coalition to use this for political point-scoring against the government and stoke division in society . I doubt whether the perpetrators of the heinous crime of torching the synagogue in Melbourne , blinded by their hatred , would even be aware of the UN vote . Leo Sorbello , West Ryde <h> Skate on thin ice <p> Environment Minister Tanya Plibersek said there would be no extinctions on her watch . While such a statement is admirable , actions speak louder than words ( " Plibersek made a vow on environmental reforms . Albanese has put that at risk " , December 13 ) . The disastrous salmon farming industry in Tasmania needs urgent control , now more than ever . The industry is owned by three overseas-owned companies , none of which has paid company tax in several years . The Maugean skate , in existence since the time of the dinosaurs , has only one home -- Macquarie Harbour . This unique creature is seriously under threat from salmon farming in this Tasmanian Wilderness World Heritage Area . We are already world leaders in extinctions in the past 200 years . Do we really want to add another ? Salmon farming in Macquarie Harbour needs to end now . Robyn Thomas , Wahroonga <p> A salmon farm in Tasmania.Credit : Getty Images/iStockphoto <h> Bubble and pique <p> It would behove Sydney Water to put its money where its mouth is ( " Constant trouble from bubbling puddle " , December 13 ) . A few years ago I had an underground leak and was charged $4000 in used water fees . The leak could not be found until it finally bubbled to the surface . On querying the bill , I was told that Sydney Water put a lot of effort into making sure Sydney had good water , and that wastage had to be paid for . Time to practise what you preach , Sydney Water . Heather Johnson , West Pennant Hills <h> Nation-building Nongs <p> We just got a quote from NBN for upgrading our unreliable HFC ( Telstra coax cable ) internet connection to optical fibre to the premises . It was nearly $18,000 -- in one of the best connected and densest areas in Australia . Thank you , Malcolm Turnbull and Tony Abbott . Your politically driven destruction of Labor 's modest optical-only NBN program has not saved anyone any money ; it perpetuated complexity , old technology and expense . Are you proud ? Andrew Taubman , Queens Park <h> School pools <p> How many private schools in North Sydney are sitting there with unused pools on sweltering weekends while ratepayers wait for North Sydney Pool to be redeveloped ? Todd Hillsley , Homebush <p> To submit a letter to the Sydney Morning Herald , email letters@smh.com.au . Click here for tips on how to submit letters . <p> The Opinion newsletter is a weekly wrap of views that will challenge , champion and inform . Sign up here . <h> Postscript <p> Veteran columnist Ross Gittins is a man of firm opinions , and this week 's column provoked a strong response ( " We 've entered the era of gutless government " , December 11 ) . In it , our economics editor said he was " sorry to tell you that I 'm finishing this year most unimpressed by Anthony Albanese and his government " . From action on climate change to the social media ban , election fundraising reform and sports betting advertising , the performance of the Labor government had fallen short , he said . <p> Max Redmayne thought voters bore part of the blame . " Labor has never forgotten the 2019 election at which it offered extensive reform ... but the ' gutless ' " electorate delivered Scott Morrison , the leader of possibly the worst government of all time . " <p> Bronwyn Bryceson wrote , " Unfortunately , as we have seen in other countries , there is a problem with voting out a ' not good enough ' government if the only alternative is a ' not even trying to be good enough ' government . " <p> Ross Gittins ' conclusion -- that " our duopoly effectively dictates the course of government " -- fully justifies a push for an increase in the number of independent MPs , Phil Schmidt wrote . How will the independents , including the incumbent teals , do at the next election ? There is much riding on this . <p> I 've spent the past 30 years eagerly tearing open the pages of Good Food each Tuesday to read Terry Durack 's restaurant reviews . He is retiring from the paper and readers wrote in to mark the end of this extraordinary career ( " Terry Durack : Why I 'm giving up the best job in Sydney " , December 10 ) . <p> Ross MacPherson wrote , " I have just one question for the urbane and erudite Terry Durack , soon to leave these pages . How have you managed to keep your svelte figure after all those years of dining out ? " Terry 's partner Jill Dupleix , in 2007 , wrote an article about how he lost 37kg ; it turns out that it 's that boring old chestnut -- eating less and moving around more . Another mince pie , anyone ? I 'll worry about that in January.Margot Saville , letters editor
