<p> After a long year of change in Australian media , Crikey surveyed more than 200 of the nation 's biggest media figures -- from journalists to editors to defamation lawyers to academics -- to pick their brains about our industry . What they shared has formed the backbone of a multi-part series that aims to hold a mirror up to the industry and asks it to reflect on itself . In today 's instalment we reveal what respondents said was the last great piece of journalism they 'd read . <p> Of the roughly 200 people we contacted for this series , about one in four got back to us . It was an imperfect list ( if we missed you , let us know for next year ) but included people from the following outlets : Nine 's major metropolitan mastheads as well as people in its broadcast divisions , The Australian Financial Review , Network Ten , Seven , SBS , the ABC , 2GB , Sky News Australia , Guardian Australia , the News Corp newspapers , The Conversation , Daily Mail Australia , Australian Associated Press , Apple News , Mamamia , Pedestrian and Schwartz Media . <p> We also included journalism academics , media lawyers and industry body executives , as well as people from smaller outlets like The Nightly , Quillette , Unmade , Capital Brief , the Koori Mail , About Time , The Daily Aus , Women 's Agenda , IndigenousX , Mumbrella , 6 News Australia and of course Crikey . More than 50 people generously offered us their insightful , searing and sometimes cheeky thoughts on the state of the industry . <h> What 's the last great piece of journalism you read ? <p> Misha Ketchell , editor of The Conversation Australia : I was totally floored by Sarah Krasnostein 's Walkley-winning article about the trial of Malka Leifer for sexual abuse in The Monthly . Sarah 's piece followed great work uncovering the story by others , particularly the brilliant Belinda Hawkins at the ABC , but she pulled it together into a meditation on shame and trauma and the justice system that I simply could not put down . It was a piece worthy of the greatest writers of literary non-fiction , people like Helen Garner , Janet Malcolm , Joan Didion and Chloe Hooper . <p> Myriam Robin , editor of The Australian Financial Review 's Rear Window : Alan Jones ' arrest has had me revisiting David Leser 's impactful Good Weekendprofile of the man ( published 1998 ) as well as Chris Masters ' extraordinary Jonestown ( published 2006 ) . Both are extraordinary pieces of journalism that capture both the horror and the glory of the Alan Jones phenomenon . <p> Nick McKenzie , investigative journalist at The Age : Stand out pieces for me this year were Linton Besser 's work on strata issues and apartment owners getting rorted , Kate McClymont 's Alan Jones expos ? , and Stan 's investigative journo docoHow To Poison A Planet because it was a great example of print journalism spinning into TV doco land . <p> Paul Barry , former host of ABC 's Media Watch : Kate McClymont 's revelations about Alan Jones were an outstanding piece of work . Crazy that she was n't nominated for yet another Walkley for this . But another great piece of work was Al Jazeera 's Gaza war crimes documentary based on analysis of social media posts from IDF soldiers . A devastating piece of work , and brilliant to source the information this way . <p> Alan Jones in the back of an unmarked police car , November 18 , 2024 ( Image : AAP/Bianca de Marchi ) <p> Janine Perrett , journalist , broadcaster and commentator : It is very hard to name one as there are so many from The New York Times that constantly astound me . Here not so much but anything by Kate McClymont . It 's the less celebrated ones that I love where she has a razor-sharp wit about hardened crims with some wonderful throwaway lines . But for the last great Australian piece it was probably her story about Richard White , the founder of Wisetech . Her simple court story about a personal legal dispute brought down one of the biggest businessmen in Australia and put every financial journalist to shame . <p> Kishor Napier-Raman , CBD columnist for The Sydney Morning Herald : Locally , I think the work done by my colleague Kate McClymont and others taking down billionaire WiseTech CEO Richard White was a masterclass in following a yarn . Beyond that , I thought the NYT 's Astead Herndon 's podcasting/analysis around the US election was everything campaign/political journalism should be . I was also gripped by this New Yorkerstory on British nurse Lucy Letby who was convicted of killing seven babies . Plenty more , this is just top of mind . <p> Louise Milligan , reporter at ABC 's Four Corners : I find it hard to narrow it down to one piece , but outside the ABC , I think the work of Kate McClymont on Alan Jones and Rick Morton 's body of work has been excellent . In terms of actual writing , I always find Erik Jensen 's op-eds in The Saturday Paper truly sparkle . <p> Sue Chrysanthou SC , barrister : My recent focus has been a quest to find the perfect pecan pie recipe . The pie was amazing , so The New York Times ' pie-making tips is the most recent great journalism I have read . <p> Johan Lidberg , head of journalism at Monash University : ' Building Bad ' -- Nick McKenzie and team exposing bikie gang and organised crime infiltration of the CFMEU . This is a piece of journalism in the long history of Australian investigative/public interest journalism holding power to account that should be done by regulators . E.g. Alleged Afghan war crimes by defence force members , the banks , the finance advisory industry , the Catholic and other churches and not-for-profit organisations , and public workplaces like parliaments . Without investigative journalism , so much abuse of power would go unexposed in Australia . <p> Bridie Jabour , associate editor ( audio/visual ) at Guardian Australia : I feel like I read at least one piece of great journalism every week , so I 'm going to say the last story that really stuck with me . It was an interview done by Rafqa Touma with Helen O'Sullivan , a Queensland woman who was volunteering in the West Bank when she witnessed her colleague shot dead by Israeli forces . The small details of the story , and the sensitivity and thoughtfulness with which Rafqa handled her subject , were extraordinary . It was a story that gave us insight into the war , but also into an ordinary human being . <p> Gabrielle Jackson , deputy editor at Guardian Australia : I read great journalism all the time ! But this long read had me thinking for longer than others in recent months . It is so much more than one man 's story . Rafqa Touma is such a star ! And she just won her first Walkley for " Leaving Gaza " . <p> Margaret Simons , journalist and author : There have been a few . Nine on the CFMEU was undeniably powerful and important ; Sarah Krasnostein on the Leifer trial managed to tell me new things about this case even though I thought I knew it well already ; the Gaza interactive by The Guardian in Australia team ; Guardian again for " Buried Lives " . I could go on . Despite everything there is a lot of good work being done . <p> Gina Rushton , editor of Crikey : I went back and re-read Chris Knaus ' work on homelessness deaths for Guardian Australia when it was nominated for the Walkley . I reckon it should have won the beat reporting gong that night . <p> Peter Bartlett , partner at MinterEllison : Australia is very lucky to have quality reporters breaking great stories . Stories that the public has a right to know . If I had to choose one piece of journalism , it would have to be the CFMEU revelations published by The Age , SMH , AFR and Nine Network . The amazing Nick McKenzie , joined by Ben Schneiders ( The Age ) , David Marin-Guzman ( AFR ) , Reid Butler ( Nine ) and others . These were brave gutsy stories by quality reporters . These stories were worthy winners of the 2024 Gold Walkley . It was very pleasing to hear Nick recognising the contribution of the Nine Network in-house lawyers , at the Walkley Awards dinner . <p> CFMEU members on strike ( Image : SIPA USA/Gemma Hubeek ) <p> Eric Beecher , chairman of Private Media ( publisher of Crikey ) : " How the Ivy League Broke America " by David Brooks , The Atlantic , December edition . A brilliantly argued and deeply researched expose of the current state of America -- " The meritocracy is a gigantic system of extrinsic rewards . " <p> Morry Schwartz , founder of Schwartz Media : " Fascist bedfellows " by Elle Hardy in the December issue of The Monthly ( at the time of writing , this has gone to press ) . <p> Jordan Baker , chief reporter at The Sydney Morning Herald : I read great journalism every day . The work coming out of Syria right now is extraordinary . I have just devoured a piece from The Times about the rescues in the jails deep beneath the city of Sednaya . My colleagues Kate McClymont and Harriet Alexander have just published an extraordinary piece on an alleged fraudster . And I was captivated a week or so ago by a New York Timespiece about the accidental mix-up of two IVF babies . <p> Edmund Tadros , professional services editor at The Australian Financial Review : My colleague Neil Chenoweth 's series on the activities of MinRes founder Chris Ellison . It was a long time coming and the developments in the saga are incredible . Combines Neil 's ability to forensically work through a complex topic , write it with a sense of humanity and wit , while he keeps uncovering ever-more incredible detail . <p> Lisa Davies , CEO of AAP : While he would n't consider himself a journalist , I just finished Lech Blaine 's book , Australian Gospel . I 'd argue it 's a meticulous piece of long-form journalism about his life and the family he grew up in . It 's creative non-fiction , but an incredible work of investigative journalism , with detailed and wide-ranging interviews forming the basis of compelling storytelling . <p> Leo Puglisi , founder of 6 News Australia : Really enjoyed this piece from Anthony Segaert in the SMH -- a super interesting and detailed look at something that is unbelievably underreported ( local government elections ) . <p> Peter Lalor , Cricket Et Al : I might be expected to say this , given he is one of my closest friends and we are in cahoots , but Gideon Haigh 's interview with the match officials who were there the day Phillip Hughes was struck was an extraordinary piece of journalism . First , it was that instinct to pause and speak to a group of people nobody had ever bothered to ask , second it was the ability to tell the story in such a compelling and intelligent manner . He has no rival . Apart from that I tend to read a lot of long-form journalism in the New Yorker and a bit in The New York Times , the former keeps that craft alive . <p> Marc Dodd , editor of nine.com.au : " Cricket 's first responders " : Gideon Haigh on the untold story of the death of Phillip Hughes on Cricket Et Al . We are lucky in Australia to have access to two of the best sports writers in the world . This , by Haigh , to mark 10 years since the death of Hughes , captured the emotion of that week in an insightful way , from a different and untold perspective . I love what they are doing with their new venture too . <p> Gerard Whateley , sports broadcaster : Peter Lalor and Gideon Haigh wrote brilliant and poignant pieces on the 10 year anniversary reflecting on the day Phillip Hughes was struck and killed in a Sheffield Shield match . The were published on the substack Cricket Et Al . " Cricket 's darkest day " and " Cricket 's first responders " . One beautifully researched with devastating detail . The other a granular account of how events on the fateful day transpired . <p> Peter Cronau , journalist : If " great " journalism includes the implications of the piece , then Seymour Hersh 's 2023 revelation of new evidence of who was behind the Nord Stream Pipeline bombing is to me a strong candidate . While additional evidence has emerged , Hersh 's original piece still stands . It suggests to us that it 's not just similar world views , or a coincidence of interests , not even enticements , that serve in isolation to hold America 's military and intelligence alliances together . Hersh reveals another factor apparently at play -- that 's the threat of direct intervention against its allies by the US , exposed here in the sabotage of the pipeline with a resulting significant impact on Germany 's economy . Behind diplomatic smiles and handshakes , it has been revelatory to see that intimidation also plays a part . <p> Eliza Sorman Nilsson , head of content at Mamamia : It was a story that so many people subscribed to The Sunday Times to read . It 's the perfect collision of the zeitgeist meeting the news cycle . Here was the first time we got to see a real behind-the-scenes look at Ballerina Farm 's Hannah Neeleman , whose glossy videos have seeped into ... people 's algorithms and have spearheaded the tradwife fascination . The article was expertly reported and beautifully written but it was the impact and ripples it caused that for me shows the power of journalism . Podcasts analysed the piece , it launched thousands of opinions . It challenged . It sparked conversation . It made people think differently . This is what journalism is all about . <p> Alex Bruce-Smith , head of editorial at Pedestrian : Does cultural criticism count ? I 'm a sucker for pieces that make me rethink the human condition , and Ryan Broderick 's essay for GQ about the unthawing of culture in 2024 had so many lines I wanted to underline in a red pen , if I was n't reading it on my phone . ( Highly recommend subscribing to his Garbage Day substack . ) <p> Nick Feik , freelancer and former editor of The Monthly : Rick Morton 's bodies of work on robodebt , the NDIS and the NACC have all been outstanding . <p> Neil Griffiths , outgoing managing editor of Mumbrella : There are so many I could list off in 2024 alone , but the music fan in me has to give the nod to The New York Times ' feature on The Cure frontman , Robert Smith , last month . A fascinating and detailed piece on one of the all-time icons . <p> Sally Neighbour , former EP of ABC 's Four Corners and 7:30 : As chair of the Walkley judging board , I 've been fortunate in the last couple of months to have read quite a lot of outstanding Australian journalism . David Leser 's gut-wrenchingly personal reflections on the war in Gaza . Annabel Crabb 's unique and sometimes hilarious commentary on issues from the Bruce Lehrmann trial to the self-entitlement of Australia 's male political class . Sarah Krasnostein 's wrenching long read on the Malka Leifer case . The ground-breaking investigations by various Walkley winners into corruption and criminality in the construction union , serial sexual predation in the Catholic Church , Chinese political espionage in Australia . This is not a plug for the Walkleys . My involvement in the judging process has given me heart that Australian journalism is alive , well and thriving , despite the cataclysmic disruption of recent years . <p> Justin Stevens , ABC director of news : Casey Briggs ' analysis of the vote during our " USA Votes " election coverage was world class and the work by our regional investigations team on links between the farm chemical paraquat and Parkinson 's disease is important and impactful . Outside the ABC , the standout pieces in the past year have been Nick McKenzie 's CFMEU investigation and Kate McClymont 's investigation into the conduct of Alan Jones . <p> John Buckley , media reporter for Capital Brief : It 's hard to say ! For all the concern about the state of journalism -- and media -- there is still a ton of great journalism going around , both here and abroad . The last two stories I picked over and re-read multiple times were the NYmag media special ( it 's fun to try and guess who 's saying what ) , and last week 's Murdoch reveal from The Times ( but Jim Rutenberg could have his byline on a menu and I 'd read it twice over ) . <p> Cam Wilson , associate editor at Crikey : WIRED -- " Anyone Can Buy Data Tracking US Soldiers and Spies to Nuclear Vaults and Brothels in Germany " . I also really want to give a shoutout to SBS ' coverage of foreign affairs and the impacts back in Australia for the past few years , particularly its coverage of Israel-Gaza , has been a stand-out for being accessible , clear-eyed and brave in a way that does n't get enough flowers because it 's understated . <p> Sophie Black , editor-in-chief at Crikey : Every week in our Thursday meeting each member of the Crikey team share their best reads of the week , a piece of journalism that lit up their brain in some way -- so that 's a bunch of inspiring links to great journalism dropping into Slack regularly , and I always love how varied they are , from form to subject , including on the ground reporting , literary scandals , reviews , great obituaries , deep dives and stuff we wish we 'd thought of . Some examples include : <p> Calum Jaspan , media writer for The Sydney Morning Herald and The Age : I really enjoyed Paddy Manning 's piece in Bloomberg in the aftermath of Trump 's election win while I was on holiday recently . <p> Gay Alcorn , former editor of The Age : I am writing a book , so I am not absorbing as much media as previously , although I did get seriously interested in the US election . It 's not a piece of writing but the Ezra Klein conversation with David Remnick on Israel and Gaza was outstanding . I learnt a lot and they did not avoid the complexity at all . Riveting , and I wish the coverage of Israel/Gaza in Australia was half as good . Locally , the " Building Bad " stories from The Age/Herald were outstanding , important and eye-opening . This is hard journalism to do . <p> Paddy Manning , journalist and author : It 's a bit personal but in terms of Australian journalism Katherine Wilson 's essay " Down on the Farm " , in the September issue of The Monthly , has turned me vegetarian or at least off factory-farmed meat for good . This First Dog on the Moon cartoon on Gaza recently floored me . <p> Steve Austin , host of ABC Radio Brisbane Mornings : The last great piece of journalism I read was by Matt Taibbi , former Rolling Stone journalist now running his own small publication Racket News . " Beyond the Law " , September 14 -- a piece about Joe Biden signing a continuation of the Proclamation 7463 declaring a " National Emergency by Reason of Certain Terrorist Attacks . " Essentially noting that for nearly a quarter of a century the US political class has seen fit to suspend almost every legal protection in order to maintain powers to fight " terrorism " . It was a great reminder of why governments love power and side with each other to continue the expansion of their powers , no matter if they are Democrats or Republicans . <p> Rachel Withers , freelance writer : I 'm appreciating everything Alex McKinnon is doing with his website/newsletter , everything is fine* , including this piece on how the Human Rights Commission buckled to Zionist bullying , and this on NSW Housing Minister Rose Jackson 's experience with such bullying . All of it is clear , comprehensive , and helps readers gain a better understanding of how power works in Australia . <p> Antony Loewenstein , independent journalist : Kellie Tranter 's investigation for Declassified Australia on Australia 's ongoing and close trade ties with Israel , published in early November . <p> Marc Fennell , presenter and journalist : Not read but I loved the podcast Ghost Story . It 's a podcast series about a family ghost story that unravels in deeply unpredictable ways . It 's a wonderful mix of the sceptical and playful . It utilised just the right amount of personal detail to cut through . I also love anything that allows us to reexamine uncomfortable aspects of the past through a unique , approachable prism . <p> Karen Percy , media president at MEAA : There 's so much great work out there ! ! But I 'm going to go for something unusual for me . I read a fabulous piece earlier this year by Sue Smethurst -- Call of the Wild -- which ran in the Weekend Australian magazine . It 's about an artist , her life and the physical and emotional challenges she 's overcome through her life . It featured great descriptions that set the mood and put us in the subject 's studio . The rich images by Sean Davey and Smethurst 's text wove a beautiful narrative . It was evocative , moving , exciting , and showed the power of what we do in a most unexpected way . <p> Dave Earley , audience editor at Guardian Australia : I skim so much it 's hard to think of a single piece , but I keep coming back to any of the investigations of the workings of the far right , particularly where they 're influencing political outcomes , and more so as it intersects with tech and social media . It 's hard not to lean toward your own publication when that 's what you spend the most time staring at , particularly in a role like mine , but Jason Wilson 's revelations about the far right in the US always get me . But other mis- and disinformation investigative journalists and the work they do , and I 'd add Cam Wilson to that ( give the man a raise , then he can buy me a beer the next time we run into each other ) . <p> Have something to say about this article ? Write to us at letters@crikey.com.au . Please include your full name to be considered for publication in Crikey'sYour Say . We reserve the right to edit for length and clarity . <h> Topics <p> Crikey is committed to hosting lively discussions . Help us keep the conversation useful , interesting and welcoming . We aim to publish comments quickly in the interest of promoting robust conversation , but we 're a small team and we deploy filters to protect against legal risk . Occasionally your comment may be held up while we review , but we 're working as fast as we can to keep the conversation rolling . <p> The Crikey comment section is members-only content . Please subscribe to leave a comment . <p> The Crikey comment section is members-only content . Please login to leave a comment . <p> Crikey is an independent Australian source for news , investigations , analysis and opinion focusing on politics , media , economics , health , international affairs , the climate , business , society and culture . We are guided by a deceptively simple , old idea : tell the truth and shame the devil .
