<p> Camera IconIsrael 's new Foreign Minister Gideon Saar speaks during a hand over ceremony with his predecessor at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Jerusalem on November 10 , 2024. - Israel 's outgoing Foreign Minister Israel Katz , succeeded by Saar , was sworn in as Israel 's new defence minister before parliament on November 7 , after his predecessor 's shock dismissal by the prime minister over a breakdown in trust during the war in Gaza . ( Photo by Menahem KAHANA / AFP ) Credit : MENAHEM KAHANA/AFP <p> Israel 's foreign minister has blasted his Australian counterpart Penny Wong and accused her of abandoning the Jewish state in its darkest hour , marking a further deterioration of the fraught bilateral relationship . <p> According to the Israel Hayom newspaper , Senator Wong spoke to Gideon Sa'ar on Tuesday in a conversation that turned into a " sharp verbal clash " as he lashed Australia 's waning support for Israel amid its war with Gaza . <p> The Hebrew newspaper , referring to Senator Wong as " among the most anti-Israel in her party " , reported she had told Mr Sa'ar Israel had not done enough humanitarian work for " the Arabs in Gaza " . <p> A spokesperson for Senator Wong confirmed the conversation was " direct " but " respectful " , and that both ministers had " explained their perspectives " . <p> " Minister Wong spoke with Mr Sa'ar to reiterate Australia 's concern about the humanitarian catastrophe in Gaza , the need for humanitarian assistance and our repeated calls for the release of the hostages , " the spokesperson said . <p> But Mr Sa'ar reportedly responded by saying Israel was the true victim , who had been attacked " not only by Hamas by five other countries " on October 7 . <p> He went on to express Israel 's disappointment that Australia had downgraded its support for Israel in international forums " in its most difficult year , when it has fought against its bitterest enemies " . <p> Australia has voted with the majority of United Nations members but against Israel in a series of votes in recent weeks , including by voting in favour of a resolution calling for Israel to withdraw from the West Bank and Gaza as soon as possible in a move that broke 20 years of tradition . <p> Senator Wong is understood to have stressed that Australia was concerned about the humanitarian crisis and reiterated a commitment to a two-state solution . <p> A spokesperson said during the call , she had " noted that Australia 's position reflected that of many other countries " . <p> Mr Sa'ar also reportedly rebuked Senator Wong over a speech she gave last week , in which she said Australia expected Israel to comply with international law just as it expected the same from China and Russia . <p> " Israel is a Western democracy that maintains the rule of law , has an independent judiciary and adheres to international law . In the past year , Israel has fought the radical axis led by Iran , which is supported by Russia and China , " Mr Sa'ar reportedly said . <p> Senator Wong last week defended her speech , saying she had not been drawing a moral equivalence between Israel , China and Russia , arguing her point had instead been about Australia 's interest in ensuring all nations upheld and complied with international law . <p> During the call , Mr Sa'ar also reportedly demanded " decisive action " by the Federal Government in the wake of the terrorist firebombing of Melbourne 's Adass Israel Synagogue - a week after Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu accused the Federal Government of taking an " extreme anti-Israel position " which had fueled anti-Semitism in Australia . <p> " Minister Wong conveyed Australia 's commitment to countering anti-Semitism and hate in all forms , " a spokesperson for Senator Wong said . <p> The Israeli report went on to claim Mr Sa'ar had also chastised Labor over its denial of a visa for former Israeli Justice Minister Ayelet Shaked - a decision that was made on the grounds she could incite discord because of a history of making anti-Palestine comments . <p> " How would you react if we acted like this towards a former minister from Australia , " Mr Sa'ar reportedly told Senator Wong . <p> It 's understood the pair exchanged cordial messages after the call , and agreed to stay in touch .
