<p> Passwords must be at least 8 characters , contain upper and lower case letters , and a numeric value . <p> Eureka Street uses the Stripe payment gateway to process payments . The terms and conditions upon which Stripe processes payments and their privacy policy are available here . <p> Please note : The 40-day free-trial subscription is a limited time offer and expires 31/3/24 . Subscribers will have 40 days of free access to Eureka Street content from the date they subscribe . You can cancel your subscription within that 40-day period without charge . After the 40-day free trial subscription period is over , you will be debited the $90 annual subscription amount . Our terms and conditions of membership still apply . <h> Reflecting on the year that was <h> In past years , we 've closed the book on December with the tradition of naming a ' Eureka Street Person of the Year , ' an individual who , for better or worse , defined the preceding twelve months or someone who somehow upheld dignity and justice in the course of the year . It 's a neat trick , packaging an era into a face and a name . But after a couple of office discussions , we agreed there 's something about this year that defies the simplicity of a single figure . So instead of handing out accolades , we 're taking a glance back to briefly reflect on the character of the year itself . Eureka Street Plus readers will know we indulge in a little Friday ritual , a column of scattered observations and modest provocations sent out each week to subscribers . As the curtain falls on 2024 , it seems fitting to lean into the spirit of stray thoughts with a smattering of final words from our editorial team . <h> Dignity on trial <p> If we 're concerned about respecting the dignity of each person , then we must also be concerned about justice . Our justice systems must treat each person , each life , with equal dignity . If justice is merely a tool in the hands of the powerful , then it no longer deserves the label . Those who are concerned about justice would be feeling a little dismayed this year . Internationally , the ICC made valiant efforts to hold leaders accountable , issuing arrest warrants for Putin and Netanyahu , though major powers dismissed these actions , exposing the limits of global justice systems shaped by national interests . In the US , Donald Trump 's legal cases unraveled with disheartening ease , while Joe Biden 's pardoning of his son Hunter drew criticism , underscoring the politicisation of justice . In Australia , principles of fairness were sidelined as the Government imposed restrictive measures on asylum seekers , Queensland passed laws contravening human rights , and parliamentary debate on abortion legislation was effectively silenced for years . All in all , the picture seems grim . But especially in dark times , we should recognise and celebrate those who try to hold up a candle . Thus , I thought it appropriate that my final thought be a note of gratitude to the judges and advocates who continue to work towards justice and human dignity at all levels , even in the face of powerful opposition . We see you , and appreciate you , even if it sometimes seems your efforts are in vain . <h> The Year of the Silent <h> Andrew Hamilton , Consulting editor of Eureka Street . <p> 2024 was a year of loud noises : the explosion of bombs dropping , roar of fires burning and floods rushing , the shouting of politicians the seething of social media , and the jangling of bitcoins . It is tempting is to seek the most significant person of the year among the noisiest and the most famous . Yet the persons who were most significant in shaping our world were the most silent and unnoticed . For that reason I name 2024 the Year of the Silent . The Silent include those who lie dead under the rubble and sand of Gaza and those condemned to live a half-life . They will be our judges . Among them , too , are those who , after the high and noisy rhetoric of election campaigns , decided their results . In Australia , they include also the families in impoverished and despised communities are given no say about the ill-treatment of their children . Among the Silent are the people whose voices are too soft to be heard , but who help shape the small communities in which cultures are kept living . They include people who cultivate silence and those attentive both to the beauty and delicacy of the natural environment and to its despoliation . The Silent are at the heart of the broken world and also of its refashioning . <h> Community immunity <h> Michele Frankeni , Editor of Australian Catholics , Madonna magazine . <p> Of the myriad things I hold against the Morrison government , near the top of the list was its laidback attitude to the acquisition and distribution of the Covid vaccine . I desperately wanted to see family without endangering their lives . A vaccine sceptic , I 'm not . Growing up , stories of loved ones lost to diphtheria , polio , and whooping cough highlighted the life-saving power of vaccines , once hailed as mid-20th-century miracles . Yet , Australia 's child vaccination rates have declined for three consecutive years , as outlined in the NCIRS 's annual update . Access barriers , such as cost or travel difficulties , explain some cases of under-vaccination , while vaccine scepticism , fueled by distrust in medical authorities or anti-vaccine influence , accounts for outright refusals . The recent appointment of vaccine sceptic Robert F. Kennedy Jr . to lead America 's federal health agency exacerbates these challenges , giving credibility to misinformation that undermines herd immunity . Non-vaccination risks the vulnerable , including the immunocompromised , infants , and the elderly , who rely on community immunity to stay safe . My hope for 2025 is a renewed collective appreciation of vaccination 's miraculous impact and a commitment to combating the misinformation threatening public health . <h> Things can only get better <h> Laura Kings , Assistant editor of Australian Catholics . <p> The news in 2024 has been bleak , but there are grassroots glimmers of hope . <p> The Bad : Globally , wars rage in Europe and the Middle East , and atrocities continue unchecked . Climate change poses an existential crisis , while inequality grows wider . Closer to home , the Voice referendum 's failure has left Indigenous advocacy in disarray . NDIS funding cuts , backed by an ableist campaign portraying disabled people as rorters and deviants , have devastated many . Watching political leaders perpetuate this narrative for gain was heartbreaking . <p> The Ugly : Hate , ignorance , and bigotry seem more visible than ever , both in politics and public discourse . A heckler at a recent gig by Indigenous artist Emily Wurramara epitomised this ugliness , shouting , ' Play the didgeridoo ! ' . <p> Despite setbacks , I see progress . Emily 's song Lordy , Lordy asks , ' What do we do now ? ' My answer : keep hoping , working , and believing . Change happens in small steps . How about you ? Can things get better ? <h> What the Church proposes <h> Julian Butler , Editorial consultant of Eureka Street . <p> Is it possible the Catholic Church has something to propose and offer to secular government at the end of 2024 ? I have grown up though a period where the Church has been on the receiving end of recommendations from the secular West . And for good reason . I am writing from Boston , Massachusetts after all . Still , no place has had the kind of government scrutiny offered by Australia 's Royal Commission into Institutional Responses to Child Sexual Abuse . This was undoubtedly a good thing . It forced the Church , among other things , to reckon with its failures and redefine itself as a pilgrim people striving toward authenticity . <p> The relieved Catholic Right and the languid Catholic Left ( all caps ) would both disagree , I think , that the Church has anything to offer in 2024 . The Right seem to think the mere idea of synodality too much , a trojan horse , albeit one whose entrants may have been for now subdued . The Left seem disappointed the synod was all about process and precious issues were not persuasively prosecuted . And there is the rub . Maybe what the Catholic Church has to suggest and offer at the end of this year is the possibility of good process , attentive to communities . <p> If we were doing a " person of the year " , I would find it hard to disagree with Time magazine . Trump is the lightning rod for our times . He has companions on the world stage of longer standing -- Erdogan , Orban , Putin , Xi . Even as it would be folly , and absurd , to suggest he has exhibited some of their ruthless excesses , he represents a nationalistic , proto-authoritarian moment right in the middle of western democracy . As governments in France and Germany fall , this looks like the new normal . Amidst this ferment stands the Church , whose hierarchy hung on to its monarchical , authoritarian trappings way too long . Within which some such trappings do still very much exist . But which , for a while now and accelerated by Pope Francis , has found global ways of expression much more focused on persons as they are in community , rather as than economic units or votes to be won . This will never be a democratic proposition but it is a participatory one , built on a style of communication which assumes the dignity and decency of all those engaged in the conversation , and just as much of those who are not but should in time be included in that process . The Final Document of this year 's Synod on Synodality left many disappointed , but it should n't have . For Catholics it gives a vivid impulse for the Church , engaged in the world seeking to discover the movements of the Holy Spirit in and through that engagement . For the world it 's whole impetus , as something begun and ongoing , suggests the possibility of a process that begins and ends beyond zero-sum relating and sectional winning . But the document remains worth reading . Just maybe it suggests something about the way we can some together . <h> The age of anxiety <h> David Halliday , Editor of Eureka Street . <p> Earlier this year , a GP friend of mine vented about a trend she 'd noticed in her practice : patients were n't coming in with the usual sprains , colds , or cuts anymore . Instead , they increasingly wanted treatment for anxiety . And fair enough . It 's a year that maxed out our collective bandwidth grappling with a succession of crises , whether it 's Trump 's election , or the unchecked advancement of AI sucking up trillions in investments and energy as carbon emissions surge , or ongoing conflicts in Ukraine , Gaza , Syria , Sudan , Myanmar to name a few ; or whether more locally it 's Australia 's housing crisis , soaring gambling losses , skyrocketing anxiety among teenagers , or climate change leading to a temporary breaching of the 1.5 ? C warming threshold set by the Paris Agreement . Pick your poison . In all the mess , you 'd be forgiven for thinking anxiety is becoming a universal emotional baseline , a condition of modern life resulting from torrential crises demanding our limited attention . But here 's a thought : what if it 's not entirely a bad thing ? To feel anxious about Gaza , our children , AI or the climate , is , in essence , to care . Uncomfortable as it is , anxiety might reflect something noble in our refusal to turn away entirely and stay engaged in conversations that matter . And in every act of concern , in every conversation marked by patience and grace , is the hint of progress . Perhaps , then , we 'd do well not to banish anxiety but to befriend it as evidence of our shared humanity . <h> Michael McVeigh is head of publishing and digital content at Jesuit Communications , publishers of Eureka Street . <h> Michele Frankeni is editor of Australian Catholics and Madonna magazine . <h> Julian Butler SJ is a Jesuit undertaking formation for Catholic priesthood . He is currently studying theology at Boston College 's Clough School of Theology and Ministry . He previously practiced law , has degrees in commerce and philosophy and has worked in Jesuit school , communication and social ministries . <h> Laura Kings is assistant editor of Australian Catholics . <h> David Halliday is editor of Eureka Street . <h> SUPPORT RESPECTFUL CONVERSATIONS IN A TIME OF DIVISION <p> We need no reminding of the depth of the division that exists in our Australian community . It 's there every time we go online , turn on the TV , open the newspaper . <p> Our politics is focused on point-scoring , personalities , and name-calling across party lines . The media , for the most part , do n't help , driven by the 24-hour news cycle and the pursuit of advertising dollars into a frenzy of click-bait and shallow sensationalism . <p> What does it mean to be an Australian in times like these ? What are the values that unite us ? <p> Eureka Street offers an alternative . It 's less a magazine than a wide ranging conversation about the issues that matter in our country and our world ; a conversation marked by respect for the dignity of all human beings . <p> To do this , we rely on your support as our community and we thank you for giving it so generously . <h> submit a comment <p> Word Count : 0 <p> Thank you <h> Similar Articles <h> The delight and discomfort of undeserved gifts <p> Emma Wilkins <p> 18 December 2024 <p> Gift-giving should be a celebration of kindness , but modern rituals often entangle us in obligation and excess . From generous neighbours to Christmas present hauls , reciprocal gifts build and shape our relationships . But what does it mean to give without strings ? <h> Celebrating Christmas , holy and hectic <p> Andrew Hamilton <p> 16 December 2024 <p> At Christmas , the sacred and the secular seem locked together . Amid the tinsel and toasts , there 's a deeper narrative : one of radical generosity , shared humanity , and solidarity with the marginalised . This season invites not just celebration but reflection on who we are -- and who we might become .
