<p> While other media outlets suck up to the rich and powerful under the guise of doing a " list " , this year Crikey wants to recognise a higher honour : being a shitstirrer . <p> We 've assembled our inaugural 2024 Shitstirrers Index for the 10 biggest nuisances to powerful people , drawn from more than 1,000 nominations from our readers ( let 's just say the term resonated ) . <p> The hallmark of a true shitstirrer is that you know one when you see one . But given we were inundated with names , the council considered a few questions to help separate the good from the truly great shitstirrers . <p> We thought about the biggest shitstorms this year and who was behind them . We weighed up who punched ( up ) above their weight , plus whose handiwork left a lasting impact . And front of mind : who had fun ( and showed flair ) doing it ? You can read more about our rationale here . <h> 4 . Fatima Payman <p> Independent Senator Fatima Payman ( Image : AAP/Mick Tsikas ) <p> Senator Fatima Payman earns distinction on our Shitstirrers Index in at least one key way : unlike our other political renegades , when her shitstirring began , Payman was a member of the government . She had a lot to lose . <p> As one of the only members of any major party to talk directly and clearly about the horrors visited on Gaza by Israel , an act she backed up by crossing the floor to vote in favour of a motion declaring " the need for the Senate to recognise the State of Palestine " , Payman was pissing off her own colleagues . <p> To illustrate what an act of " punching up " that stance represents , the young first-term senator then stood firm as those colleagues were explicitly aided by every major publication in the country in anonymously discrediting and humiliating her . <p> " If calling out genocide , racism and hypocrisy makes me a shitstirrer , then I 'll wear the badge with pride , " Payman told Crikey . " And I promise to stir even harder next year . " <h> 3 . Taylor Auerbach <p> Ex-Seven staffer Taylor Auerbach ( Image : AAP/Dean Lewins ) <p> Thai masseuses , cocaine , photographs of crass and furtive text messages , courtroom drama , furious backgrounding , a $25 million mansion and a bizarre press conference -- these were the props and plot points used by **36;2106;TOOLONG Taylor Auerbach as he spectacularly forced his way into the spotlight during the Bruce Lehrmann defamation trial . <p> Just days before a judgment was due for what had already been the biggest media case of the year , the little-known Auerbach launched a last-minute legal intervention to share sordid allegations of working as a producer on Seven 's Spotlight program as it interviewed Lehrmann about claims that he had raped Brittany Higgins . <p> The word " explosive " gets thrown around a lot these days , but how else could you describe Auerbach 's behaviour ? The blast radius from Auerbach started with Lehrmann , but soon grew to incinerate broadcast veteran Mark Llewellyn , Steve Jackson , Seven as a company and even Auerbach himself after he was laid off by his new home at Sky News Australia . <p> Is Auerbach a good guy ? It would be remiss of us not to allude to some odious reporting about his conduct . Was he doing it for the right reasons ? Probably not . But these are not disqualifying qualities for a shitstirrer . During the Lehrmann defamation trial , Justice Michael Lee put it best when he surmised that even if Auerbach was n't " some noble , public-interested man coming along to get something off his chest , and to assist His Majesty 's justices " , that does n't mean he ca n't be a " truth-teller " . It only matters that he took down people bigger than him . <p> Even if he ultimately had limited impact on the Lehrmann trial , Auerbach 's penchant for the dramatic puts him in the pantheon for shitstirrers . In the middle of the Lehrmann circus , Auerbach was the spinning trapeze artist , somehow defying all odds to hang on and steal the show . ( Auerbach declined to accept this honour , saying that he would only recognise it if he was crowned the year 's biggest shitstirrer. ) <h> 2 . Lidia Thorpe <p> Senator Lidia Thorpe ( Image : PA Wire/Victoria Jones ) <p> There are few people in Australian politics so unafraid of being a thorn in the side of the establishment as Lidia Thorpe . The former Greens senator has made full use of her right to speak her mind since going independent . <p> In October , she made international headlines by shouting " You are not my king " at Charles III when the monarch visited Parliament . The move was controversial -- those who objected included many of her Senate colleagues , who censured her in a symbolic expression of disapproval -- but being universally liked is obviously not the job of a true shitstirrer . It also should n't have come as a surprise to anyone who watched Thorpe call Charles ' predecessor , Elizabeth , a coloniser as the senator was sworn into Parliament in 2022 . <p> In 2024 , a year when the issue of First Nations disadvantage notably vanished from front pages following Labor 's failure to convince Australians to vote for the Voice to Parliament , Thorpe , a prominent critic of the Voice , has managed to not just make Australia pay attention to her people 's plight , but the rest of the world as well . <p> " I will forever take the piss out of the colony , " Thorpe told Crikey . " And I encourage all those living on stolen land to also question this outdated , racist , unlawful and unjust occupation with a foreign coloniser king . " <h> Topics <p> Crikey is committed to hosting lively discussions . Help us keep the conversation useful , interesting and welcoming . We aim to publish comments quickly in the interest of promoting robust conversation , but we 're a small team and we deploy filters to protect against legal risk . Occasionally your comment may be held up while we review , but we 're working as fast as we can to keep the conversation rolling . <p> The Crikey comment section is members-only content . Please subscribe to leave a comment . <p> The Crikey comment section is members-only content . Please login to leave a comment . <p> Crikey is an independent Australian source for news , investigations , analysis and opinion focusing on politics , media , economics , health , international affairs , the climate , business , society and culture . We are guided by a deceptively simple , old idea : tell the truth and shame the devil .
