<p> We began Crikey'sMovers and Shakers series with a look at what the biggest names in Australian journalism considered to be the last great piece of journalism they read . We finish the series with a look at their media diets . <p> We emailed everyone the same eight questions and about one in four got back to us . It was an imperfect list -- if we missed you , let us know for next year -- but we contacted people from the following outlets : Nine 's major metropolitan mastheads as well as people in its broadcast divisions , The Australian Financial Review , Network Ten , Seven , SBS , the ABC , 2GB , Sky News Australia , Guardian Australia , the News Corp newspapers , The Conversation , Daily Mail Australia , Australian Associated Press , Apple News , Mamamia , Pedestrian and Schwartz Media . <p> We also included journalism academics , media lawyers and industry body executives , as well as people from smaller outlets like The Nightly , Quillette , Unmade , Capital Brief , the Koori Mail , About Time , The Daily Aus , Women 's Agenda , IndigenousX , Mumbrella , 6 News Australia and of course Crikey . More than 50 people generously offered us their insightful , searing and sometimes cheeky thoughts on the state of the industry . <p> Alan Kohler , founder of Eureka Report : My favourite newsletter is The Browser . My favourite newspapers are The New York Times and the Financial Times . My favourite magazine is Construction Physics and Foreign Affairs . <p> Louise Milligan , reporter at ABC 's Four Corners : This is really hard to narrow down and of course I read , watch and listen widely and admire so many of my friends and colleagues across the media . I consume ABC Radio on and off all day -- Radio National and ABC Melbourne . I am loving David Marr on Late Night Live and I think Raf Epstein is such a great , empathetic and intelligent broadcaster , and so is Patricia Karvelas . I am always interested in what Annabel Crabb , Marina Hyde , Jenna Price and Sam Maiden have to say in their columns . In terms of my absolute favourites , outside of the ABC , I love The Saturday Paper , The Monthly , The Rest is History , The Rest is Politics ( both the original and the US version ) , The New Yorker and Vanity Fair . I 'm really looking forward to the thoughtful and smart Linton Besser 's take on Media Watch -- he is an excellent journalist . My guilty pleasure is the podcast I 've Had It , which makes me laugh out loud at their war on toxic positivity . <p> Nick McKenzie , investigative journalist at The Age : I am a creature of habit . The Age , the SMH , the Fin , the Oz , the ABC every morning religiously . Scan the tabs . I dip into and get annoyed with Crikey but I 've been told that 's the point ! I love reading Brett Stephens in the NYT . I listen to the NYT'sThe Daily podcast every night when it is uploaded to get to sleep . It mostly keeps me awake though . I 'm a huge fan of good narrative journalism -- I devoured Say Nothing ( the book ) by Patrick Radden Keefe and now bingeing the Disney series . Empire of Pain about the Sackler Family was also incredible long-form investigative journalism . I thought Gay Alcorn 's appearance on Brian Reed 's Question Everything podcast was a great insight into modern journalism . <p> Waleed Aly , co-host of Network 10 's The Project : I do n't have a dedicated media diet as such . It varies depending on what issues I 'm trying to research . That said I try to read news as widely as possible , especially in a media landscape that seems like it 's becoming increasingly ideologically divided . That means being as familiar with The Australian as The Guardian , and of course I write for The Age and The Sydney Morning Herald so I 'm naturally engaged in those papers . And I am on a wide range of newsletter-type lists , including having a Crikey subscription . Sometimes I have no idea how I even got there . I do n't read these things all the time , but I tend to know roughly what 's there in case I need to go back and read more deeply . <p> I do n't read outlets based on celebrity news , or that regurgitate others ' social media posts , etc . I just do n't have time for that . <p> But honestly , I find the most valuable stuff tends to sit outside the news cycle . Very little beats a quality essay , which I tend to find not so much by outlet as by topic . Even with podcasts , unless they 're about sport , I tend to veer more towards discussions about more enduring ideas than the daily news . I treat them more as a tutorial than an update for some reason . <p> John Buckley , media reporter for Capital Brief : Ooooooo . I recently stumped up for Oliver Darcy 's Status newsletter and was gifted an annual sub to New York Magazine ( print and all ! ) for Xmas . I 'm enjoying reading both of those . I also pay for the NYT , the Washington Post and Puck -- Matthew Belloni is ace . Lucas Shaw 's Screentime is also a must-read , and I chew through a lot of Bloomberg and the FT more broadly . Locally , I try to read everything , including but not limited to : the Fin , the Australian , the SMH and the Age , the Guardian , Crikey . Honorary mentions to Tim Burrowes ' Unmade and Dan Barrett 's Always Be Watching newsletters , though I truly wish there were more . ( Let me know if you have suggestions . ) <p> Steve Austin , host of ABC Radio Brisbane Mornings : The AFR on a Friday or Saturday . The Weekend Australian . Podcasts like The Realignment on US policy trends and controversies . Honestly with Bari Weiss . The Economist podcasts . Ipswich Today podcast . YouTube : " TRIGGERnometry " presented by Konstantin Kisin and Francis Foster for well-articulated opinion and idea pieces on global affairs . I subscribed to Crikey for a different view of things in Australia . Matt Taibbi 's Racket News for US news and debates . Taibbi works on first principles and old school journalism models of covering a story or issue ( US legacy media is comedy ) . Vanity Fair to discover how poor I am . I do n't subscribe to Quadrant in Australia , however , sometimes when I come across an article I think I should read it for a different perspective on things . <p> I read more books than is healthy because I only read nonfiction . Best book read this year is Rob Henderson 's Troubled : A memoir of Foster Care , Family and Social Class ( NYT bestseller ) . The book reveals how progressive ideas are based on " luxury beliefs " . Quote : " The poor reap what the luxury belief class sows . " I have changed my view of progressive policy ideas ; they fail badly but the poor continually wear the cost and effect . <p> Myriam Robin , editor of The Australian Financial Review 's Rear Window : I like how NYMag straddles being both eye-catching and substantive . The Economist is a global success for a reason . The FT publishes some of my favourite columnists . I read most major Australian newspapers and generalist subscription products every day . I do n't really do audio or video content daily -- it takes too long and there 's too much other stuff to get across . I read the news professionally so I fully expect my media diet to be unusually obsessive . <p> Justin Stevens , ABC director of news : There 's so much on offer these days that it 's at times overwhelming . I 'm always consuming as much ABC journalism as possible , across everything from regional local radio through to daily news output and our impactful current affairs programs . I listen at regular junctures of the day to ABC News radio and the ABC News channel is on in my office all day . I check out what all major Australian outlets have on a daily basis . On social , I love what Zara Seidler and Sam Koslowski and their team continue to achieve with The Daily Aus . I also regularly dip into international offerings including the FT , the Washington Post , The New York Times and various podcasts , depending on what specialised topics I 'm in search of and what 's prominent in that week 's news . <p> Sophie Black , editor-in-chief at Crikey : Above and beyond the bread-and-butter publications that are required reading every day , the icing on my media cupcake is stuff like NYMag'sThe Cut personal essay ( addicted to this artform ) , the London Review of Books , Foreign Policy , The Economist , Meanjin , The Monthly , Monocle in hard copy at any airport , newsletters like Blue Milk , Rick Morton 's missives , Cameron Murray , 404 Media for anything tech and just for how they 're building their business , ( very ) locally The Paris End . Podcasts ? Semafor 's Mixed Signals , The Rest is Politics , locally Kate Jinx and Brodie Lancaster 's See Also podcast , and still , oddly the NYT'sThe Daily because I find Barbaro 's voice comforting ... <p> Bridie Jabour , associate editor ( audio/visual ) at Guardian Australia : I read every Sydney/national newspaper every day as well as listen to AM and Guardian Australia'sFull Story . But so does everyone in media , so the other parts of my diet are : pop culture podcast with Melbourne chicks Kate Jinx and Brodie Lancaster See Also ; tech podcast with James Hennessy and Raph Dixon Down Round ; I particularly love listening to Late Night Live as a podcast with David Marr hosting ; there is always at least one thing in The Nightly each day that I have n't read anywhere else ( my husband works there but I have personal connections to almost every outlet in this country so I really mean it ! ) ; The Jewish Independent has become required reading for me this year . I also regularly listen to the UK Guardian 's podcast Today in Focus , and US Vox media podcast Pivot , although through gritted teeth at times because I find one of the hosts excruciating . The best newsletter in my inbox is Andie Fox 's Blue Milk . She 's a wonderful writer , reading her is like pausing to catch my breath . I still have a hole in my media diet where The Drum used to be . <p> Kishor Napier-Raman , CBD columnist for The Sydney Morning Herald : If I 'm working I try and whip through our papers and the competitors . The NYT , FT , Politico , the Guardian and Athletic for foreign news/sport . I quite enjoy Semafor for US stuff . But outside of work days and standard doomscrolling time , I get a lot of news fatigue . I pretty much exclusively read fiction/literature probably in part because of this . <p> Karen Barlow , chief political correspondent at The Saturday Paper : 7am . <p> Joe Aston , former Rear Window columnist : I always listen to the Chanticleer podcast , while Semafor 's Mixed Signals is terrific -- Ben Smith is a generational talent . I still read the latest on AFR multiple times a day and usually spend some time in The Australian 's app . I get everything from the Betoota Advocate to Bloomberg via Instagram . Am fairly devoted to Gideon Haigh 's and Peter Lalor 's cricket Substack , Cricket Et Al . Love reading the FT ( especially Robert Smith 's brilliant coverage of Sanjeev Gupta ) and absolutely anything by David Remnick in The New Yorker . <p> Marc Dodd , editor of nine.com.au : Away from news , I love the podcast 60 Songs That Explained the ' 90s and 60 Songs That Explain the ' 00s by Rob Harvilla for the Ringer . Funny , wistful and a throwback to the great music journalism that was so plentiful at the turn of the century . I still love the feel and look of magazines too -- my favourite is Nutmeg , a Scottish football quarterly that captures the quirk and beauty of the game back home . <p> Gabrielle Jackson , deputy editor at Guardian Australia : I 'm one of those Ezra Klein tragics , I 've got ta say . Obviously I never miss a Full Story episode and I have a love-hate relationship with Pivot . Very sad about the end of Do n't Ask Tig . As for newsletters , I like Semafor , Daily Beast , Crikey 's morning newsletter the Worm ( obviously ) , Nieman Lab for professional reasons , and I love Dinner Party , Garbage Day and Saved for Later for fun . <p> Peter Cronau , journalist : Favourite media outlets for me depend on the issues I seek information on . For recent reporting from the ground in Gaza , I 've gone to SBS World News , Al Jazeera , Haaretz , as well as individual reporters inside Gaza , and for a broader analysis , to people like Chris Hedges and Glenn Greenwald . For news on the Pacific nations , I go to the news sites of newspapers and media in their countries . For truthful British news , Declassified UK is a good place to start . In the US , Consortium News and CounterPunch have been long-term reliable outlets . In Australia , its independent outlets like the indispensable Pearls &amp; Irritations , plus Michael West Media , Independent Australia , Declassified Australia , The New Daily , Crikey . Podcasts like 7am are becoming regular listens , as is most of the specialist programming that is appearing on ABC Radio National . Of course , in specialist journals , trade magazines and activist newsletters , you can discover details barely ever touched on by the mainstream media . For what the business establishment in Australia is thinking , the Financial Review is indispensable . <p> Gina Rushton , editor of Crikey : I obviously read all major Australian print publications and then the usual US ones ( NYT , WaPo , WSJ ) and I love NYMag . I 'll leave all the comedy and pop culture podcasts I listen to daily and just focus on news , media and politics ! My favourites are Semafor 's media podcast Mixed Signals , Foreign Policy 's economics podcast Ones and Tooze , WNBC 's On The Media , The News Agents , Jessica Valenti 's Abortion Every Day and , locally , I like Down Round ( the best tech and business podcast around ! ) I am biased but I think Crikey 's newsletters are fantastic , as are Capital Brief 's and I like the AFR 's legal newsletter . Beyond my regular subscriptions to most major outlets , the newsletters I pay for include Adam Tooze 's Chartbook , Haley Nahman 's Maybe Baby and a quite Sydney-centric one called Highly Enthused . <p> Misha Ketchell , editor of The Conversation Australia : Well The Conversation , of course ! Then every day I listen to RN Breakfast , which I still think is a great roundup of the national news and particularly sharp political coverage . I also read The Australian and The Age and all the morning newsletters , Post from Schwartz Media and the CrikeyWorm and the Crikey Daily . I 'll also listen to talkback radio if I 'm in a car and I often watch The Project and listen to 7am . I check The Guardian regularly each day . I also read The New York Times , The New Yorker , The New York Review of Books , The London Review of Books ( sometimes ) . I spend a lot of time listening to podcasts : The Bulwark , The Minefield , The Daily , Heavyweight , How to Fail , Ask Everything , Chat 10 Looks 3 , Sports Bizarre . <p> Eliza Sorman Nilsson , head of content at Mamamia : Along with the Mamamia website , social , newsletters and podcasts ( Out Loud , The Quicky , No Filter and The Spill are non-negotiables for me ) . <p> When looking for stories I will use group chats and snooping on FB groups or Reddit for cracking reads ( Like Minded Bitches Drinking Wine , Mamamia Outlouders group , Inner West Mums ) <p> Morry Schwartz , founder of Schwartz Media : I could be accused of bias , but I 'm a big fan of the Schwartz stable : The Saturday Paper , The Monthly , Quarterly Essay , Australian Foreign Affairs , the Post newsletter and the podcast 7am . I always read The Weekend Australian and have been a fan of Capital Brief from day one . From overseas I read The New York Times , The Financial Times , Times of Israel , The Economist , Foreign Affairs , The New Yorker , The Atlantic , Vanity Fair and Axios -- otherwise I roam around . <p> Johan Lidberg , head of journalism at Monash University : Crikey , The Guardian , The Age , The New York Times , ABC , SBS , Politico , Politico Europe , the Swedish public service and various podcasts spanning the globe . I source my news/media directly from media orgs , not from social media . <p> Kate McClymont , chief investigative reporter at The Sydney Morning Herald : Increasingly , I find myself listening to podcasts as I walk the dog or get to work . The US election has provided gripping material . I have been listening to The Rest is Politics ( both US and UK ) , The Daily ( NY Times ) , Pod Save America , Sidebar ( The Washington Post ) , The Intelligence ( The Economist ) and the Ezra Klein Show ( also NYT ) . Locally , The Morning Edition of the SMH and The Age is great and the ABC 's Matt Bevan is a fabulous storyteller -- I have really enjoyed his recent series America 's Last Election . <p> Janine Perrett , journalist , broadcaster and commentator : Every morning I still get the SMH delivered to my home . I love the physical paper , which always provides something I missed online and I would pay any price not to lose that experience each day . I ca n't believe I 'm still lucky enough to get the paper . I read The Guardian . I also could not live without The New York Times , which has , as well as the best hard news coverage , the widest range of stories on every topic of any news service . I also read the London Daily Telegraph , which , while I do n't agree with most of their more extreme right-wing opinion pieces , has some wonderfully written pieces on a huge range of topics , especially excellent fashion and entertainment stories . I am a subscriber to the Daily Beast in the US , which has serious stories but plenty of fun ones on everything from entertainment to media and politics . I do n't do podcasts but prefer to listen to live radio in case of breaking news . I only listen to the ABC stations with a preference for News 24 . I only read magazines when on holiday and then mainly Vanity Fair . But I do spend a lot of time reading overseas stories on various websites like The New Yorker or Politico . Also I read news.com.au though I have dubbed it news.comic for some of the more silly stories . It 's definitely gone downhill since they sacked the successful female editor for one of the old tabloid blokes ! <p> Nick Feik , freelancer and former editor of The Monthly : The New York Times , New Yorker , London Review of Books , The Monthly , Saturday Paper , Bluesky , Crikey , ABC , Guardian . <p> Peter Hitchener , Nine News Melbourne presenter : I seldom have time to listen to podcasts but am a frequent listener to news/talk radio ( 3AW , ABC Radio Melbourne and ABC Radio National ) . I subscribe to The Age , Herald Sun , The Australian , The New York Times , Washington Post and Guardian Unlimited , keeping up with the day 's events via their apps . And I start every day with Wordle ! Sometimes it takes me just as long as a podcast to figure out the answer , but it 's a habit I enjoy . <p> Dean Levitan , media lawyer at MinterEllison : The Age is the first website I open every morning , and I read it cover to cover every Saturday . I read fantastic daily newsletters from Capital Brief , Crikey and The Atlantic . I rarely miss an episode of the Ezra Klein podcast . <p> Cam Wilson , associate editor at Crikey : From the moment I wake up , I 'm checking a few social media apps where I get news ( this is now Bluesky , LinkedIn , maybe X/Twitter a bit ) . I tune into ABC radio bulletins in the morning . I visit most major Australian news websites to check out their tech sections and top headlines . I visit the Verge and 404 Media homepages , as well as check aggregated stories at Techmeme and Hacker News . I have an RSS reader that pulls in tech sections and individual journalists ' pages from major US publications like NYT , WaPo , Gizmodo , Wired , FT , etc , as well as some of Australia 's smaller tech publications like InnovationAus and Information Age . I also read blogs and newsletters including Techdirt , Stratechery , Garbage Day , Semafor and The Sizzle . And , for my sins , I listen to dumbass sports podcasts from places like the Ringer ( like Bill Simmons and Ryen Russillo ) to turn my brain off and occasionally work-relevant ones like Vergecast , 2SER 's Fourth Estate and Down Round . I do n't really watch any YouTube or TikTok these days although I really should , but honestly there 's really only so much content that my brain can take . <p> Dave Earley , audience editor at Guardian Australia : My favourite newsletters are related to audience and engagement . WTF is SEO ? , Inbox Collective , Product Notes , SEO for Google News . I wish I had time to listen to podcasts ... I used to , but again they were often industry ones around social media , digital news , tech . I 'll flip through the new Guardian Weekly when it arrives , but I wo n't see or touch a physical newspaper more than two or three times a year , when we visit parents interstate who still get it delivered . <p> Paul Barry , former host of ABC 's Media Watch : I love the London Review of Books . Plenty of stories I have no interest in , but almost always with something brilliant , fascinating and different . The ABC . SMH . Crikey . <p> Jordan Baker , chief reporter at The Sydney Morning Herald : Everything and anything , really . New York Times , Washington Post , The Atlantic . I love The Times of London ; its magazines have always been terrific . The Daily . Whatever my friends recommend . I 've switched to ABC News Radio in the morning . And like everyone else I know , I 'm really enjoying The Rest is History and its various spin-offs . <p> Peter Lalor , Cricket Et Al : I start with The New York Times . Until recently I read the Washington Post next but it has shat in its pants and lost me . I read Cricinfo and most cricket outlets . I love Twitter , it 's a shit pub , but I like a shit pub -- admittedly it gets worse every day but it is still my favourite source of news links . Unfortunately it is fast becoming so bad even I 'm looking for somewhere else to drink . I 'm disillusioned with most major Australian outlets . <p> Sally Neighbour , former EP of ABC 's Four Corners and 7:30 : I now have the luxury of being able to choose what I want to consume , rather than having to try to consume everything . I read The New York Times , because I have an abiding interest in US politics , despite/because of the election of Trump . I listen to the NYT 's Daily podcast because it gives me an easily digestible and highly engaging summary of the latest story . I get the SMH delivered daily because I still like a good old-fashioned newspaper , on paper . I read stories from The Guardian and Schwartz Media when they pop up in my Instagram feed and look interesting . I do n't watch TV news because it 's mostly boring and formulaic unless there 's a big , breaking story . <p> Nic Christensen , former head of corporate communications at SBS and head of corporate affairs at Nine : I love Evan Shapiro 's Media War &amp; Peace for its future-focused lens on how media is evolving , Oliver Darcy 's new Status newsletter is a great lens on the US media/journalism . I 'm also doing more work in the creator space , so I am regularly consuming US outlets that give a lens on social media and the US creator economy such as ICYMI , Passionfruit , Tubefilter . <p> Lisa Davies , CEO of AAP : I 've been far too obsessed with the intricacies of the US election in recent months for my answers to this question to be representative , so let 's just say my media diet is wide and varied , and subject to the biggest stories of the news cycle ! <p> Paul Bongiorno , political journalist : Old habits die hard : ABC RN and News Radio and TV Sky Agenda ( all in daylight hours ) . The SMH , Crikey , Schwartz Media products , especially the 7am podcast , The Saturday Paper and The Monthly . As a tragic from way back , I monitor the political reports on all of the network TV news bulletins and current affairs programs . <p> Apart from that I have a life in my garden . <p> Share <h> About the Author <p> Daanyal Saeed is Crikey 's media reporter . He was previously a sports reporter at news.com.au and for the Grafton Daily Examiner . <p> Related articles <p> Comments <p> Crikey is committed to hosting lively discussions . Help us keep the conversation useful , interesting and welcoming . We aim to publish comments quickly in the interest of promoting robust conversation , but we 're a small team and we deploy filters to protect against legal risk . Occasionally your comment may be held up while we review , but we 're working as fast as we can to keep the conversation rolling . <p> The Crikey comment section is members-only content . Please subscribe to leave a comment . <p> The Crikey comment section is members-only content . Please login to leave a comment . <p> Crikey is an independent Australian source for news , investigations , analysis and opinion focusing on politics , media , economics , health , international affairs , the climate , business , society and culture . We are guided by a deceptively simple , old idea : tell the truth and shame the devil .
