<p> It 's a constant battle between audiences , audience editors and data teams . Readers say they want positive , detailed , feel-good stories , while the data says they want negative , digestible slop that pulls on their emotions . Newsrooms are filled with the exasperation of reporters forced to write what clicks over something that fulfils them intellectually , all in return for advertising revenue that sustains the industry . <p> What do readers truly want ? We asked more than 200 of Australia 's biggest media figuresto hear what stories their readers love the most . What they shared has formed part Crikey 's series , Movers and Shakers , holding a mirror up to the industry and asking it to reflect on itself . <p> We emailed everyone the same eight questions and about one in four got back to us . It was an imperfect list -- if we missed you , let us know for next year -- but we contacted people from the following outlets : Nine 's major metropolitan mastheads as well as people in its broadcast divisions , The Australian Financial Review , Network Ten , Seven , SBS , the ABC , 2GB , Sky News Australia , Guardian Australia , the News Corp newspapers , The Conversation , Daily Mail Australia , Australian Associated Press , Apple News , Mamamia , Pedestrian and Schwartz Media . <p> We also included journalism academics , media lawyers and industry body executives , as well as people from smaller outlets like The Nightly , Quillette , Unmade , Capital Brief , the Koori Mail , About Time , The Daily Aus , Women 's Agenda , IndigenousX , Mumbrella , 6 News Australia and of course Crikey . More than 50 people generously offered us their insightful , searing and sometimes cheeky thoughts on the state of the industry . <h> What always clicks well with your readers ? Be honest ! <p> Joe Aston , former Rear Window columnist : I 've been out of the game for 12 months now , but Qantas articles always did strong numbers with the Financial Review 's audience ! As did anything about billionaires , particularly James Packer or Andrew Forrest . Or anything with the name of a Melbourne or Sydney private school . " Cranbrook " or " Scotch College " in an AFR headline was the equivalent of " side-boob " for the Daily Mail : absolute catnip . <p> Marc Dodd , editor of nine.com.au : It is a boring answer but we are a news site and crime , weather and breaking news have always clicked well and always will . In the past 12 months , we have also seen a big uptake in readership of our explainers across all verticals , not just news . And travel stories as well , particularly around Australian destinations . <p> Nick McKenzie , investigative journalist at The Age : For whatever reason , the CFMEU story has gone off . It rates really well . I think it is down to the mix of crime , politics and a latent anger that large government jobs have been rorted under the noses of politicians that has angered and energised our readers and watchers . <p> Bridie Jabour , associate editor ( audio/visual ) at Guardian Australia : Politics , politics , politics . It 's what readers are ravenous for on the site and from our podcasts . Also , randomly , anything to do with EVs . <p> Jordan Baker , chief reporter at The Sydney Morning Herald : Sometimes it 's easy to pick what readers will like . Rich people fighting always get our readers excited , whether that be a court battle over an inheritance or feuding neighbours in Point Piper or parents turning on a high-fee private school . Racy crime does well , too , as does a well-written opinion piece and a compelling personal story . You can never be entirely sure , though . I wrote a story about child poverty thinking that it would sink like a stone but was important to write nonetheless , and it ended up doing well . <p> Rachel Withers , freelance writer : Calling out the Coalition 's increasingly unhinged , unethical behaviour . Too few outlets are doing it , opting to treat its half-baked ideas and overt racism as standard -- much like the US media did with Trump . <p> Michael Pascoe , journalist : Political outrage . <p> Myriam Robin , editor of The Australian Financial Review 's Rear Window : My readers stay with long , meaty stories of all varieties ( as long as they 're good ) . But they will definitely scan those about the lives of the 0.0001% ( I guess we 're all curious ) . <p> Janine Perrett , journalist , broadcaster and commentator : I love a good celebrity gossip story like everyone else . And entertainment and fashion trends and popular culture stories in general . <p> Edmund Tadros , professional services editor at The Australian Financial Review : I cover accounting and consulting for the sector and they are always interested when partners at one of the big firms move to another big firm , or even to a small firm . <p> Louise Milligan , reporter at ABC 's Four Corners : I must admit that stories about private schools click very well with our viewers/readers . I think that 's because they divide opinion . People who went to those schools might think , " Oh , here 's a story about people like me , " and those who did n't might think , " Here 's a story that makes me cranky . " Either way , people engage passionately and often do so for weeks after publication . That 's not why I chose to embark on the Four Corners investigations into St Kevin 's for our 2020 story , Boys Club , and Cranbrook for our 2024 story , Old School -- that choice was based on serious systemic issues that led after publication to quite profound institutional change . But the issues definitely get people fired up . <p> Morry Schwartz , founder of Schwartz Media : Uncovering wrongdoing by the powers that be . <p> Nick Feik , freelancer and former editor of The Monthly : Stories about corruption , malfeasance , political failure . <p> Erik Jensen , CEO and editor-in-chief of Schwartz Media : Politics , especially reporting that gets inside the forces shaping Australia -- that gets to the messy truth of why this country is so stuck . <p> Eric Beecher , chairman of Private Media ( publisher of Crikey ) : You mean , " describe the human condition " ? Indignation , voyeurism , outrage , disgust , envy , greed ... these are the drivers of traffic , but they rarely coincide with good journalism . <p> Alex Bruce-Smith , head of editorial at Pedestrian : Apart from the obvious duo of reality TV and scandal , the biggest stories for Pedestrian are the ones already taking life online . Our readers are chronically online , so chances are they 've already come across a new trend or unfolding TikTok drama -- they just do n't know the full story yet . <p> We also find huge value in breaking down the big news stories in ways that are easy to understand and entertaining to read . In my experience , it 's a misnomer that young Aussies are news adverse -- you just need to know how to get it to them . <p> Karen Barlow , chief political correspondent at The Saturday Paper : I see that hate-reading works . Personally , I like well-crafted , well-sourced , entertaining yarns . <p> Joseph Friedman , managing director of About Time : Our readers are mostly incarcerated , and we 're still learning exactly what they like to read . But we 've certainly identified a bad news bias based on the stories that get the most traction with readers on social media . A positive story , say , computers in cells ? About 10 times less engagement than a piece about the prohibitive cost of making phone calls from prison . Bad news sells , sadly . <p> Gina Rushton , editor of Crikey : To be totally candid , I 've learned that Crikey readers love to read anything on Qantas and comment on anything about the Greens . They care a lot about hypocrisy and transparency so they 're interested in conversations about corruption , justice and conflicts of interest . <p> Sophie Black , editor-in-chief at Crikey : Qantas . The readers are mad for it . Often pieces that contextualise the news of the day -- people just want a clear-eyed explanation . <p> Eliza Sorman Nilsson , head of content at Mamamia : When it comes to the website , cracking real-life stories , divorce and cheating content always works , so too does sex . When the news cycle is particularly grim we see people come to us for escapism -- lots of TV gossip and recommendations , anything in the entertainment space and shopping . On a particularly hard news week , it 's not uncommon for the top story to be about jeans or the latest sneakers to buy . For us , straight news is a tricky space to play . We often try to find the heart , the help and the humour in news stories to allow our audience to know how to feel and think about a big event . When we nail that , we can see really big downloads on our podcasts , especially the likes of Mamamia Out Loud , The Quicky News and The Spill . When it comes to beauty and fashion podcasts , You Beauty and Nothing To Wear , easy hacks , products that provide results without massive price points , and expert advice really gets the big listens . <p> Peter Lalor , Cricket Et Al : I 'll suspend my cynicism and say that readers still love a good breaking story . A real one , not some beat-up . Crime clicks . Some sports click . And then there 's sex , scandal , breathless bullshit , but it was ever thus . Who is n't going to click on a story about a film star in a love tryst with a beagle ? <p> Peter Hitchener , Nine News Melbourne presenter : I feel that television news viewers appreciate an occasional human interest story that provides contrast and relief from some of the confronting events that make up most bulletins . <p> Cam Wilson , associate editor at Crikey : People love to hate American big tech CEOs and founders , the Musks and Zuckerbergs . AI is a big pull . Obviously , anything to do with Rupert . Conspiracy theory and extremism-related content remain popular . But the topics that should n't surprise me for being so popular are anything related to companies in Australia that most people deal with on a day-to-day basis : anything with Woolworths , Bunnings , banks , etc . <p> Misha Ketchell , editor of The Conversation Australia : Well , it depends on who they are , and increasingly each publication has its niche . I think this is a real problem actually as the best journalism can create a space for a range of voices to be heard . What 's the point of journalism if we 're just talking to our mates and people converted to our causes ? Sadly what clicks with readers is shrill opinion rather than considered analysis , clear solutions when nuance is needed . Sex and food and music and all the things that make life good also tend to appeal to readers and that 's not such a bad thing . <p> Johan Lidberg , head of journalism at Monash University : Strong and independent analysis holding power to account -- eg. political donations . <p> Steve Austin , host of ABC Radio Brisbane Mornings : What our audience clicks on are the simple grassroots relatable stories that look trivial but affect where the listener lives and works . " Big issues " turn people off as they feel powerless and overwhelmed , suburban stories connect and reinforce a sense of community for my audience . It 's a " family thing " . <p> Paddy Manning , journalist and author : There is a lot of interest in Lachlan Murdoch for obvious reasons . <p> Peter Cronau , journalist : Investigative journalism that reveals the truth behind government spin , or silence , is always very popular with readers of Declassified Australia . Most read pieces include articles on Five Eyes spying in the Pacific , US Defense involvement in funding Australian universities , alliance relations with America , and of course Australia 's connections with the renewed conflicts in the Middle East . Declassified Australia published the first detailed reports on F-35 fighter jet components entering the global supply chain that supplies the Israeli military from Australian manufacturers , and revealed that battlefield intelligence on Gaza and Ukraine gathered by Pine Gap satellite surveillance base is made available to the Israel Defense Forces war in Gaza . <p> Dave Earley , audience editor at Guardian Australia : I think it 's hard to go past Australian politics for our readers . Although internationally they always love a weird story about Australian animals . <p> Claire Stuchbery , executive director of the Local &amp; Independent News Association : Anything to do with revenue building -- resourcing newsrooms is the primary focus for our industry association audience ! <p> Leo Puglisi , founder of 6 News Australia : #BREAKING <p> Neil Griffiths , outgoing managing editor of Mumbrella : Like anywhere , controversial news always works , but I think industry news has been a big point of difference for Mumbrella . If there is something happening that is big , largely covered news in the industry , what can we do that is different , that has a point of difference , that is giving our readers something they have n't read anywhere else ? Those angles are the most fruitful when it comes to clicks . <p> Lisa Davies , CEO of AAP : AAP 's brand is trusted , impartial journalism . That 's our calling card and how it must remain . <p> Calum Jaspan , media writer for The Sydney Morning Herald and The Age : On my beat , people love reading about the ABC and the Murdochs . And the billionaires ... <p> Any news story can engage with audiences on a given day -- it depends what else is happening , the relevance or importance of the story on the day , the way the story is crafted for each platform , and the distribution strategy . <p> News stories must be engaging to cut through the noise . First-person stories , explainers , **30;2074;TOOLONG journalism and data visualisation do well . <p> SBS World News is the only Australian news service with primarily a global perspective , and Australian audiences often turn to SBS when significant international stories break . <p> Karen Percy , media president at MEAA : I find the word " clicks " triggering as there 's too much emphasis on clickbait , even at quality media outlets . Also " readers " ? ? How very " legacy " of you , Crikey ! " Audiences " is a much more inclusive word . The personal resonates so well with audiences . Whether it 's sharing someone 's story , or sharing my own experiences , audiences are interested in people and their lives . Human connections are just the best . <p> Gerard Whateley , sports broadcaster : Cricket coverage with an Indian market . <p> Waleed Aly , co-host of Network 10 's The Project : I ca n't say I look at the figures very closely , but it 's pretty clear that sensation brings engagement . If you write a column deriding a shared object of derision among a readership group , that will generate lots of reader comments . But that can be fairly cheap and self-defeating in the long run . That 's why , if I worry about data at all , I worry about the " time spent reading " measure . That shows that people are n't just clicking , they 're engaging deeply . And I think that happens best when you offer them a richer argument than average , or something that invites them to look at something in a way they perhaps had n't considered . <h> Topics <p> Crikey is committed to hosting lively discussions . Help us keep the conversation useful , interesting and welcoming . We aim to publish comments quickly in the interest of promoting robust conversation , but we 're a small team and we deploy filters to protect against legal risk . Occasionally your comment may be held up while we review , but we 're working as fast as we can to keep the conversation rolling . <p> The Crikey comment section is members-only content . Please subscribe to leave a comment . <p> The Crikey comment section is members-only content . Please login to leave a comment . <p> Crikey is an independent Australian source for news , investigations , analysis and opinion focusing on politics , media , economics , health , international affairs , the climate , business , society and culture . We are guided by a deceptively simple , old idea : tell the truth and shame the devil .
