<h> Respect all public sector workers with a fair wage <h> Save articles for later <p> Add articles to your saved list and come back to them any time . <p> Not so long ago , the NSW government was able to find money for a very substantial pay rise for police , but for reasons that are n't clear to me the same government ca n't seem to find money to improve the pay of rail workers ( " Union bosses unleashes Christmas train chaos " , December 20 ) , nurses and medical specialists ( " Doctors ' mass resignation deepens NSW government 's workers woes " , December 20 ) . All these public sector workers carry out essential work , and if the government can respect the police , why ca n't it extend the same respect to other public sector workers ? Having worked for the railways myself for more than a dozen years , I know the shift work they do is very hard on the body and relationships , but rail workers will not want to inconvenience passengers . Come on premier , negotiate with respect for all your employees . Colin Hesse , Nowra <p> It 's laughable the state government bleating about potential rail union strike action during New Year 's Eve when successive Labor and Liberal governments are equally to blame for irresponsibly neglecting to upgrade the entire transport system over the years , in line with Sydney 's burgeoning population and surrounding suburbs . With the exception of the metro , conventional rail travel is at third-world levels , and a reliable and frequent bus service is practically non-existent . Congestion on the roads at all hours reducing all traffic to a crawl , slow-running buses and woefully out-of-date rail services all point to an unforgivable lack of adequate foresight and planning across the political spectrum . Frederick Jansohn , Rose Bay <p> No wonder governments want driverless trains . John Groom , Thirroul <h> Nothing for nothing <p> No rational Australian could hope for or expect cuts in taxation , so what did Shane Wright and Millie Muroi really mean ( " Tax cut hopes crash after $22b blowout in the budget " , December 19 ) ? People here seem to want the government to provide ever more , whether it is housing subsidies , salary increments , child care or pharmaceutical and medical services , yet does nobody think that they must be paid for ? Here , the rate of the selective GST is 10 per cent , but in Europe it is closer to 20 per cent . Such comparisons can be odious and difficult to make . The simple truth is , however , that cheapness -- when expectations and demands are high -- is hardly the ideal path . John Carmody , Roseville . <p> Advertisement <h> Bad nuclear option <p> Congratulations to Mike Foley , who has taken Peter Dutton to task over his ridiculous claims that the amount of highly radioactive spent nuclear fuel produced each year could be measured in single Coke cans ( " Safe waste storage the biggest issue for Dutton 's nuclear plan " , November 20 ) . The spurious and fallacious statements from the opposition are coming thick and fast , following their laughably rubbery costings and timeframe announcements . Small , modular reactors can not be part of any nuclear plan as they are not in commercial production anywhere in the world . <p> Foley points out that Dutton 's reactors would produce 880 barrels of contaminated radioactive waste every year , requiring safe and secure storage for hundreds of thousands of years . They have not mentioned the cost and means for this . Last week Dutton and Taylor claimed that nuclear power would reduce power bills by 44 per cent , based on no actual cost analysis , before admitting that this was incorrect later in the week . Ted O'Brien proclaimed that " nuclear was the world 's safest form of power generation " . Perhaps he could tell that to people who lived near Three Mile Island , Chernobyl or Fukushima . I have n't yet read of any exclusion zones around a faulty wind turbine or a failed solar panel . Alan Marel , North Curl Curl <p> An abandoned Russian vehicle near a radiation sign in Chernobyl.Credit : AP <p> One wonders whether Dutton will bring a handful of radioactive waste into parliament and brandish it around , like Scott Morrison did with a lump of coal , assuring us that there is nothing to fear . So far , we ca n't find a site for low-level medical waste . Good luck finding somewhere to store 373,333 radioactive Coke cans . Paul Doyle , Glenbrook <p> Just how many more things will Dutton get wrong in his nuclear policy ? It 's safe -- wrong . It will deliver cheaper power -- wrong . Nuclear waste will be minimal -- wrong . It will be cheap to build -- big wrong . As Dutton himself says : " If you do n't know , vote no . " Genevieve Milton , Dulwich Hill <p> Dutton 's politics-based nuclear plan would " generate 880 barrels full of highly radioactive each year " . It would require secure storage for hundreds of thousands of years . Our country is blessed with an abundant supply of renewable sources , so why would we even contemplate going down the nuclear path for energy ? It would be sheer madness . John Cotterill , Kingsford <p> Advertisement <h> ' Mid-range ' murder <p> The former director of public prosecutions , Nicholas Cowdery , once stated that lay people do n't understand the sentencing guidelines and should n't comment . Well , I do n't , but I will . A husband murders his young , pregnant wife , disfigures her body with acid and will be able to resume his life in 16 years at the age of 36 ( " Mother wails as daughter 's killer jailed over acid death " , December 20 ) . I am not alone , I 'm sure , in being appalled especially as the murder , " against a background of controlling and violent behaviour " , was described by the female judge as mid-range . It 's an indictment on society and sentencing laws that women still do n't matter . Sally Spurr , Lane Cove <p> A wife is brutally murdered and dumped in a bath of acid , but the judge considers this only " in the mid-range of seriousness " for murder in sentencing the killer to a non-parole period of 16 years . What kind of message does this send to the community ? Does it mean that the killer was partially justified , or perhaps that he needed to have shown greater effort to have been awarded the life sentence -- which many people would believe he deserved ? William S Lloyd , Denistone <h> Greyhound champion <p> Yet again , Peter FitzSimons is a champion for the greyhound -- not in its racing capacity but instead speaking up for this beleaguered breed ( " Dog days are over : Why NSW must follow Kiwis ' greyhound racing ban " , December 19 ) . No other dog breed suffers such institutionalised , state-sanctioned brutality . All other breeds are protected by animal welfare laws . If a cavoodle or labrador were subjected to this treatment , there would be a public outcry and those responsible would be in jail . Yet the greyhound has no such protection . Racing is supported by massive amounts of taxpayer money , whether we like it or not . <p> The greyhound has the misfortune to be able to run fast and is seen as a money-making machine by the gambling industry . There can never be enough homes for the thousands of greyhounds discarded by the racing industry every year . Individuals that are not rehomed end up in industrialised kennels for the rest of their miserable lives . These dogs often face neglect , inadequate medical care and poor living environments . Others disappear . I long for a politician with the moral fortitude to stand up to the venal racing industry and ban it for good , but both sides of politics have failed this test . Shame on them . Judy Hungerford , Kew ( Vic ) <p> Advertisement <h> Well done to all HSC achievers <p> Congratulations to the hardworking students who gained top marks in the HSC ( " Meet the high achievers in a class of their own " , December 20 ) . It is a wonderful human interest story . It 's not as helpful as a piece of analysis , pitting schools and students in private and public systems against each other . The students who worked equally hard but gained no such recognition , we see you . Congratulations to the teachers who work around the clock for their students . Sometimes just getting children to school is a huge achievement . Vale John Marsden , who saw a way to help many thousands of teachers and students connect meaningfully with education ( " John Marsden taught me how to have a big , brave life " , December 19 ) . He inspired me to connect with my students in what can be a very rigid education system . Marsden 's legacy remains , but he will be truly missed . Beverley Fine , Pagewood <p> James Ruse Agricultural High School students Julia Zheng ( back left 99.95 ATAR ) , school captain Nara Gong , Warren Song ( 99.95 ) , Yutong Duan ( 99.95 ) and Noah Vassallo , school captain , have received their final results.Credit : Dion Georgopoulos <p> I 'm delighted that the " scaling of science and mathematics subjects " has been introduced , so boys can enjoy this positive discrimination in their ATAR results . Boys and men obviously really need this positive affirmation of their worth . It 's not as though men are paid more than women or hold more positions of power , is it ? Is this discrimination about putting women and their " soft " humanitarian subjects and values in their place ? That is a place behind men . I sometimes despair for our society and its future . Elfriede Sangkuhl , Summer Hill <h> Compassion for carer <p> Surely , the sad story of the WIRES volunteer who allegedly failed to care adequately for an injured kangaroo could have been resolved without involving the criminal courts ( " How the death of one kangaroo could leave Tracy with a criminal conviction " , December 20 ) . The RSPCA and WIRES should have been able to be as compassionate to the struggling carer as they claim to be to injured wildlife . Or does this case show that the RSPCA fails to co-operate with voluntary organisations that " compete " with its activities ? One hopes not . Philip Bell , Bronte <p> What a strange society we are sometimes , with a dedicated if possibly misguided volunteer likely to be labelled a criminal , despite caring for hundreds of native animals . Just up the road , we shoot perfectly healthy ones without sanction . Colin Stokes , Camperdown <p> Advertisement <p> This sounds like the typical situation of zealots in an organisation like the RSPCA . It potentially deters volunteers from doing good work . It also distracts organisations such as the RSPCA from doing good work themselves . David Rush , Lawson <h> Vale Michael Leunig <p> I was lucky to have met Michael Leunig a few months ago at our local gallery in Beechworth , where he was exhibiting ( " ' The pen has run dry ' : Acclaimed cartoonist Michael Leunig dies " , December 20 ) . We had a pleasant conversation and I went home with an autographed and fingerprinted copy of his book of Newspaper Poems , which I have read and reread . The poems tread a delicate emotional balance where one makes you laugh and the next unleashes tears . For intertwined with the whimsical Mr Curleys and his ducks are deep insights into the human condition , on death , loss , war and a world gone mad . But mixed in with all these heavy thoughts is his belief in the healing power of nature , usually depicted as a delicate flower or small bird . Thank you , Michael , for sharing your wisdom and may you rest in peace . Renata Bali , Beechworth ( Vic ) <p> Acclaimed and much-loved cartoonist Michael Leunig has died . <h> Naked truths <p> Why does Liam **25;0;TOOLONG donkey accompany him for his life modelling ? He explains that his " ass looks OK " ( " It 's time to rebuff the shame around our naked truths " , November 20 ) . If he is the supposed centre of the artists ' attention , then maybe his focus on the donkey is a bit arse-up . Donald Hawes , Peel <p> It 's easy to be proud of your body in your 30s . The task becomes harder when your skin looks in need of ironing . Mustafa Erem , Terrigal <p> Advertisement <p> Obviously , Heitmann-Ryce-LeMercier has n't visited Coogee Beach recently . No sign of body dysmorphia there -- every possible body shape , all in varying states of undress ( undress being the operative word ) , many adorned with intricate variations in body art . Keeping one 's eyes at a respectful level can be very challenging at times . Elizabeth Kroon , Randwick <h> Silence is golden <p> Vocal anti-climate action MP Keith Pitt has announced his departure from politics ( " Former Nationals minister lashes party leader over net zero on his way out , " December 20 ) with the comment , " Our lives begin to end the day we become silent about the things that matter . I am confident I have never been silent . " This brings to mind the old saying that sometimes it is better to remain silent and be thought a fool than to open your mouth and remove all doubt . Michael Georgeson , Balmain <h> Coach offside <p> Ange Postecoglou , with his claim his football coaching job is a tougher gig than being PM , must think the British leader sits around twiddling his thumbs between elections . My concern is the bloke teaching other blokes to win a 90-minute game is earning 25 times the salary of the person responsible for the destiny and safety of the 68 million British subjects . Tony Nicod , Collaroy <h> User pays <p> Sorry , premier , I do not want my tax dollars to pay for pill testing ( " Pill testing to go ahead at NSW summer music festivals " , December 19 ) . The only safe way is to not take drugs . If pill testing is considered necessary then the user should pay for this service . They can pay large amounts to buy drugs , so they can afford to pay for the testing . Barry O'Connell , Old Toongabbie <h> Postscript <p> Next week is the start of the Christmas season , when we traditionally gather with our loved ones . But it 's been a very hard year for many people . According to the global think tank , the Institute for Economics and Peace , there are currently 56 conflicts occurring around the globe , the most since World War II . A total of 110 million people are either refugees or internally displaced due to violent conflict . <p> Under these circumstances , I 'd like to thank all the letter writers for helping the team uphold the most important qualities of the Letters pages -- balance and fair-mindedness . In a year in which wars raged in Israel , Gaza and Ukraine ( among others ) , Donald Trump was elected in the US and a cost-of-living crisis hit home , it would be very easy for the conflict and despair of the news pages to leak into the letters . However , due to the intelligence and forbearance of you , the readers , we 've been able to maintain our pages as a place for intelligent conversations about challenging but important topics . With a few flashes of humour ! <p> The great Australian writer John Marsden died this week , and letter writer Glenys Quirk sent in a snippet of his poem , A Prayer for the 21st Century . It 's a beautiful verse . <p> May we be outlived by our daughtersMay we be outlived by our sons.May the bombs rust away in the bunkers , And the doomsday clock not be rewound , May the solitary scientists working , Remember the holes in the ground.May the knife remain in the holder , May the bullet stay in the gun , May those who live in the shadowsBe seen by those in the sun . <p> The other much-valued members of the Letters team , Harriet Veitch and Ivan Hemens , are taking a well-earned break over the Christmas/New Year period , so I 'll be in the office playing the Boney M 1981 Christmas album ( it 's a banger , try it ) and eating mince pies -- please write in . From all of us here on Letters , we hope you have a peaceful and relaxing Christmas . <p> Margot Saville , letters editor <p> To submit a letter to the Sydney Morning Herald , email letters@smh.com.au . Click here for tips on how to submit letters . <p> The Opinion newsletter is a weekly wrap of views that will challenge , champion and inform . Sign up here .
