<p> Many of this year 's interviewees for Forget the Frontbench ( Image : Private Media ) <p> When I started writing my weekly column Forget the Frontbench , examining the players shaking up Australia 's major party duopoly , a hung parliament looked possible . As the year has worn on , it has become all but a certainty , with the latest Accent/Redbridge MRP putting the odds above 98% . It 's therefore vital to examine the growing third force , the " bums on seats " who can no longer be dismissed as " other " -- as polls and graphs regularly do . <p> So what have I discovered from six months of chatting with our diverse new crossbench ? Here are five things I 've learnt or confirmed through this column so far . <p> But what journalists often mean when they write " teal " is " community independent " , a category that includes the teals but covers a wider range of candidates , nominated by " Voices of Indi " -type groups . Indi MP Helen Haines , for example , is not a teal , despite the 2022 teals lionising her ( WWHD ? ) . There may be more " CI " s come 2025 , with campaigns challenging all three majors , including in the regions , with independents coming close in Wannon and Cowper last time . <p> Figures like Dai Le , meanwhile , suggest that popular locals can and will topple members who take their multicultural seats for granted , even without a big budget -- a theory those in Muslim-heavy seats will be looking to test next year . <p> That 's not to mention influencers like Punter 's Politics and Purple Pingers , who , like many voters , have declared a pox on both major party houses . Both have sought to get into Parliament this year , via very different channels . <h> ' Left ' and ' right ' are less clear-cut on the crossbench <p> One of the things I enjoyed most about this year 's interviews was diving into its various ideologies on the bench -- or trying to . <p> As Bob Katter said in a brief moment of clarity , " left and right " can not accurately capture him , a socially conservative union man , nor the teals , who are generally assumed to be socially left and economically right . But Katter , who 's won every election since he defected from the Nats in 2001 , speaks for Kennedy in his idiosyncratic style . <p> In fact , many of the crossbenchers are hard to place neatly on a left -- right spectrum . As are many Australians , who no longer fit the Labor -- Coalition dichotomy . <p> Mayo 's Rebekha Sharkie holds her cards close , defining herself as the " sensible centre " -- understandable , as she was originally elected on Centre Alliance ( though can someone please explain the 2PP count to her ? ) . Jacqui Lambie and ex-stablemate Tammy Tyrrell could do with clearer ideologies , often speaking in populist platitudes about fighting for " the little guy " -- whoever that is . <p> Lord knows when it comes to Le ( she cancelled our interview last minute ) , a former Liberal and Sky News darling who urged Labor to reform the regressive stage three tax cuts . But I do n't doubt each aims to speak for their constituents . <h> Labor 's strict solidarity rules are not suited to this moment <p> In the opening column of this series , I pondered whether then Labor Senator Fatima Payman would leave the ALP over Gaza . Two months later she did , telling media she saw " no middle ground " in a party that bound her vote under a strict code of conformity . <p> The episode raised questions about Labor 's 120-year-old rules , which seemed out of step with our diverse , modern society , driving away an impressive young senator . Several party figures spoke out , before the issue quickly died down again . <p> As I wrote at the time , the rise of independents presents a stark contrast with the ALP , highlighting how Labor MPs are expected to toe the party line , regardless of what their constituents might think . With voters seeing an increasing number of crossbenchers speaking directly for their electorates , Labor 's ironclad unity may end up being an albatross around its neck , costing it voters who would rather have a voice than a number on the Parliament floor . <p> It might be worth the Labor hardheads noting that indies are these days more likely to win " safe " seats than marginal ones , as political binaries are further upended . <h> Independents are increasingly working together -- with good reason <p> Sky News Australia is not wrong when it accuses the " teals " of acting like a " party " . While independents are free agents , they often share tips and resources ; as academics Mark Riboldi , Ben Spies-Butcher and Phoebe Hayman observe , they 're increasingly being elected with the help of " party-like " structures , providing " organisational benefits for electoral campaigning that have hitherto been seen as unique to parties " . <p> Organisations like Cathy McGowan 's " Community Independents Projects " and Simon Holmes ? Court 's Climate 200 aim to support indie campaigns -- or as Holmes ? Court put it as he criticised Labor 's donor reforms , " to level the playing field so that values-aligned independents have a fighting chance against the party machines " . <p> Some independents even ran under one umbrella in the ACT election , with " Independents for Canberra " leader ( and former David Pocock staffer ) Tom Emerson promoting the advantages of being a " loose coalition " while still being free to set their own policies . NSW teal MP Jacqui Scruby , who used to work for Steggall , reckons she succeeded in Pittwater this time around partly because Northern Beaches voters had a taste of how effective independents can be . <p> It 's not just about the campaigns . Former Greens Senator Lidia Thorpe told me she now attends regular meetings with indies from both houses -- which was how she gained crossbench support for her calls for action on deaths in custody . Veteran crossbencher Andrew Wilkie even ran training after the election on how to use parliamentary privilege for whistleblowing , teaching new colleagues his old tricks . <h> Australians are ( probably ) mature enough to handle what 's coming <p> Expect scaremongering about the " risks " of a hung parliament to ramp up as the election draws closer , with a majority looking increasingly unlikely for either side . <p> But as the Australia Insititute 's Richard Denniss and Bill Browne argued in a well-timed discussion paper , " parliaments are designed to share power " . Power-sharing is a regular part of our democracy , with all nine jurisdictions experiencing it in some form over the past two decades . It 's often shared between parties , within parties , and across the House and Senate , where parties rarely secure a majority . <p> Former crossbencher Rob Oakeshott , who helped Labor form minority in 2010 , says power-sharing is a better model than the " elected dictatorship " of the majors , arguing more voices lead to better decisions . Greens Senator Sarah Hanson-Young reckons women are often better at negotiating , as the minor party reconsiders how to approach the next term . <p> While the political class might not be ready to accept that hung parliaments are here to stay , voters seem to be , with the major party vote continuing its long downward trajectory . <p> What have you enjoyed from this column this year ? What else would you like to see ? Write to us at letters@crikey.com.au . Please include your full name to be considered for publication in Crikey'sYour Say . We reserve the right to edit for length and clarity . <h> Topics <p> Crikey is committed to hosting lively discussions . Help us keep the conversation useful , interesting and welcoming . We aim to publish comments quickly in the interest of promoting robust conversation , but we 're a small team and we deploy filters to protect against legal risk . Occasionally your comment may be held up while we review , but we 're working as fast as we can to keep the conversation rolling . <p> The Crikey comment section is members-only content . Please subscribe to leave a comment . <p> The Crikey comment section is members-only content . Please login to leave a comment . <p> Crikey is an independent Australian source for news , investigations , analysis and opinion focusing on politics , media , economics , health , international affairs , the climate , business , society and culture . We are guided by a deceptively simple , old idea : tell the truth and shame the devil .
