<p> This beautifully written and compelling Mayarticle on the Israeli/Palestinian conflict , by Dr Kim Sawyer , has won first prize* in our IA Writing Competition Most Compelling Article 2024 -- read on to discover why . <h> Judge Ranald Macdonald 's comments <p> It was a privilege and a considerable challenge to select the winning entry this year . Thank you to all the writers as each should be proud of their compelling and powerful contributions . <p> It makes me feel confident about the essential role writing has to play at this concerning time of AI ( not IA because THAT is a badge of honour ) where ethics , fairness and integrity in what is being presented are essential . <p> I found it interesting , but understandable , that so many entries concerned the Israeli/ Palestinian conflict . Though human rights , race relations , the environment , the fate of whistleblowers and a powerful piece on scam victims , also featured . <p> On " scamming " there are a couple of lines in victim Kim Sawyer 's piece which will remain with me : ' Scammers need a facilitator , that facilitator is a bank . Banks may not be the thieves , but they do drive the getaway car . ' <p> But the best and most evocative article in my judgement is another article by Kim Sawyer -- ' The perils of indifference : History repeats itself on Gaza ' . <p> Beautifully written , it features some excellent and apposite quotes from the remarkable Nobel prize winner , Holocaust survivor Elie Wiesel . One , in particular , is worth highlighting : ' Indifference is more dangerous than anger and hatred ... indifference is not a response . Indifference is not a beginning ; it is an end . Indifference is the friend of the enemy . ' <p> Dr. Sawyer for me is a worthy winner in the Most Compelling Article category . Certainly , I was compelled ! <p> Fifty-four years ago to the day , a young Jewish boy from a small town in the Carpathian Mountains woke up , not far from Goethe 's beloved Weimar , in a place of eternal infamy called Buchenwald . He was finally free , but there was no joy in his heart . He thought there never would be again . <p> Liberated a day earlier by American soldiers , he remembers their rage at what they saw . And even if he lives to be a very old man , he will always be grateful to them for that rage and also for their compassion . Though he did not understand their language , their eyes told him what he needed to know -- that they , too , would remember and bear witness . <p> We now bear witness to a calculus of destruction to which most do not want to bear witness . We are witnesses to Gaza . We tap into the compassion that soldiers at Buchenwald tapped into . We are not robots . <p> " So now folks , let me introduce myself -- I am a Palestinian from Gaza , aged 12 years old . The aim of this channel is to reach 100,000 subscribers , or 500,000 , or 1 million . " <p> He ended saying " peace out " to his 1,000 subscribers . Awni and most of his family were killed by an Israeli strike on 7 October , hours after Hamas gunmen had stormed across into Israel . His video now has millions of views . The story of the annulment of the innocent . <p> Awni has many brothers and sisters -- more than 25,000 women and children have been killed , more than 100 journalists have been killed , and members of aid organisations have been killed . <p> War is destruction of the human spirit where the unjustifiable is justified by semantic argument -- that Hamas are terrorists , Israel is prosecuting a war , and women and children are human shields . The balance sheet of disproportion . <p> This reporter has often written of the bystander problem where evil prevails when good people do nothing . <p> Elie Wiesel identified the perils of indifference : <p> For the person who is indifferent , his or her neighbour are of no consequence .... Indifference reduces the other to an abstraction ... In a way , to be indifferent to that suffering is what makes the human being inhuman . Indifference is more dangerous than anger and hatred ... Indifference elicits no response . Indifference is not a response . Indifference is not a beginning ; it is an end . Indifference is the friend of the enemy . <p> It is easy to be indifferent to those we do n't know , to reduce them to a number and not a name . Hannah Arendt understood the importance of identity . Awni El-Dous was never a number . Dror Or , an Israeli murdered by Hamas on October 7 in Kibbutz Be'eri , was never a number . <p> None of us want to be the non-person in Buchenwald or the non-person who lives in Jenin . When this reporter watched the film Jenin Jenin , a liberal democracy that had enshrined stories of Elie Weisel , Hannah Arendt , Albert Einstein and Simon Wiesenthal -- yet had reduced a Palestinian girl to be a number and not a name , with none of the rights of those in Tel Aviv -- was reflected upon . <p> The inhumanity done to us should not be leveraged to justify the inhumanity we do to others . <p> He observed Israel through the eyes of an outsider who was not indifferent to the suffering of others : <p> I lived in the Sheikh Jarrah neighbourhood of East Jerusalem between 2016 and 2020 and regularly saw Israeli police harass and humiliate Palestinians . The daily grind of occupation was oppressive for those who were n't Jewish . It made me ashamed of what was being done in my name as a Jew . Today I support a one-state solution to the conflict where all its citizens can live equally . <p> No person committed to human rights can be indifferent to the suffering of the oppressed . <p> The war in Gaza is the prosecution of vengeance , continuing a cycle of retaliatory violence . Hamas was born out of acts like the Hebron massacre of 1994 that led to the deaths of 29 Palestinian Muslims praying at the Ibrahimi Mosque . <p> Ensuing clashes resulted in the deaths of another 26 Palestinians and nine Jews . The Hebron massacre led Hamas to change its strategy . They targeted civilians , they became the mirror of those they hated . <p> The war in Gaza is a war that Oxford Professor Karma Nabulsi calls " scholasticide " -- a war that targets the young , a war that targets their future . The war has destroyed or damaged all of Gaza 's 12 universities and 400 schools . It has killed 5,000 students , 250 teachers and 100 Professors . <p> By January , the UN assessed that over 75 per cent of Gaza 's educational infrastructure had been damaged . Israel appears to be intent on the elimination of the present but also the elimination of the future . Academics have petitioned their universities , but the indifference of the powerful is too strong . <p> Australia can do more , much more . The young are showing the way , they are shaming us all . Australia offers ten scholarships to Palestinian students . We can offer much more . <p> Guru Nanak , the first Guru of Sikhism , famously said that there is no Hindu and no Muslim , just as there is no Jew and there is no Palestinian , for Awni El-Dous and Dror Or are the same .
