<h> The year in review <p> I can say precisely when the last measure of my respect for the prime minister evaporated . It was October 3 , the day Anthony Albanese asked each of us to look inside a bag of salt-and-vinegar chips and contemplate the emptiness therein . " Ever found more air than chips in your chip packet ? " he asked on social media . " More air , less product , same price . It 's called shrinkflation , and it 's ripping Australians off . " <p> Here , just two years into his prime ministership , the great mountaintop he 'd dreamt about for most his life , was an appeal of such exquisite triviality that I was overcome by the fumes of his exhausted imagination . That said , shrinkflation is real : symbolically , the size of the prime ministerial office remains the same , but its occupants keep getting smaller . <p> Contemptuous of his predecessor , Albanese nonetheless shares much with Scott Morrison . Each man is a career politician and the product of decades of backroom whispering . Both men refined their political manoeuvring much more than their imagination , intellect or charm and , having found the summit , their vacancy was quickly revealed . Governance , it turns out , requires very different skills from the ones needed to get there in the first place . <p> This month , Albanese groused to senior colleagues that the Murdoch press was out to get him and the conversation was duly shared with the media . If there were ever two signs a Labor government was slouching towards defeat , it 's the bitter blaming of the old mogul and a leaky cabinet . <p> This year , Albanese was aggrieved that he might be asked questions about enjoying privileges from the airline he once regulated . He banned social media for kids while capping the number of international students to our universities . He tried to introduce laws that would authorise one individual to determine what might be " disinformation " . He picked a fight with Elon Musk , then retreated , never able to explain why footage of the stabbing of a Sydney priest should be barred from X but footage , say , of the planes hiting the Twin Towers might remain . He outlawed vapes , while cigarettes can still be bought at any servo -- albeit at such extravagant prices that a violent black market for tobacco flourishes . <p> Albanese 's achievements were often defined by the restriction of things . Even this , he does n't do well . The legislation that bans those under 16 from accessing certain apps is silent on how the restrictions might actually be enforced -- that responsibility has been pushed to the companies . <p> Elsewhere , long-promised restrictions to what have become notoriously ubiquitous sports gambling ads were slowed by " vested interests " , as independent MP Andrew Wilkie described it , as the government announced it would not introduce a bill until next year . <p> If vested interests had stymied gambling ad reform , they at least did n't seem to have had the same effect on industrial relations . The Albanese government passed legislation this year making it easier for casual employees to claim permanent status , while its " right to disconnect " provision outlawed -- within reason -- employers contacting workers outside established hours . <p> Long overdue , the government also substantially reformed the Reserve Bank of Australia 's structure . From March , the RBA will have two boards : one responsible for monetary policy , and the other for the bank 's governance . An independent review reported last year that this reform was necessary to correct for an impassive board too reluctant to scrutinise the governor 's decisions ( a contentious finding that was naturally rejected by then governor Philip Lowe ) . <p> The RBA board has typically been dominated by corporate executives -- that is , non-economists -- but under the new composition , the monetary policy board will be made of subject experts , something borne out by the two appointments announced by the treasurer this month , of Ren ? e Fry-McKibbin and Marnie Baker . The review 's recommendation , however , for the removal of the treasurer 's veto power over RBA decisions was dismissed after widespread opposition from former RBA governors and academics . <p> As I write , further proof the labour market remains piping hot has been released by the Australian Bureau of Statistics . The unemployment rate declined to 3.9 per cent in November , close to record lows , while government expenditure remains historically high , as underlying inflation remains stubbornly above the RBA 's comfort level and economic growth is anaemic . Combined , this suggests an economy operating well beyond its capacity . <p> Inflation has not been solved . While both core and headline inflation has declined , only the latter has fallen within the RBA 's target band . And so , in September , Jim Chalmers celebrated the decline of headline inflation . " Monthly inflation was 2.7 per cent in the year to August 2024 , down from 3.5 per cent in July 2024 , " he said . " It 's now less than half the 6.1 per cent we inherited and less than a third of its peak . " <p> This was highly selective , and while partisans cheered , and the public may have anticipated rates relief , Reserve Bank officials ground their teeth . " Headline inflation is expected to fall further temporarily , as a result of federal and state cost-of-living relief , " the RBA said in September . " However , our current forecasts do not see inflation returning sustainably to target until 2026 . " <p> It 's true that Albanese inherited high inflation , a consequence of war-crimped supply chains and what turned out to be the overly generous floats of the Morrison government during lockdowns -- a generosity that seemed justified at the time , and which enjoyed broad support , including Labor 's . <p> But nearly three years have passed since this awkward inheritance . " My reading , when I speak privately to the treasurer and when I hear him speak on television and radio , " the RBA governor , Michele Bullock , said last month , " is that he 's fully aware of the inflationary implications of his own policies . " <p> " Every time we accelerated , whale juice would pour into the windows of the car ... We all had plastic bags over our heads with mouth holes cut out , and people on the highway were giving us the finger , but that was just normal day-to-day stuff for us . " <p> In 2024 , it seemed many journalists had learnt nothing from 2016 . That the president of the United States was seriously mentally impaired was obvious to his own staff , of course , but also to many Washington journalists -- and also suspected by a large percentage of the American public , who had consistently expressed as much in polls for at least a year . <p> Yet few " liberal " journalists this year -- or last -- took seriously his cognitive decline , despite explicit evidence . When the US Justice Department released transcripts of its interviews with Joe Biden , who had been questioned for his improper removal of classified documents from the White House , they revealed the president 's alarming confusion . Biden could not recall the year he became vice-president nor the year his son died . " And his memory appeared hazy when describing the Afghanistan debate that was once so important to him . " Biden 's brain was so clouded that those writing the report suggested any criminal trial would likely feature a defence that Biden simply could n't remember anything . <p> How did certain journalists respond to what seemed like an extraordinary revelation of the president 's unfitness ? Here 's Emily Bazelon of The New York Times : " This has all the hallmarks of over-covered problems . " <p> Her podcast partner , John Dickerson , who anchors CBS News , offered this : " The age obsession is a part of the obsession with the performative aspects of the presidency . " <p> The " performative aspects " that Americans were " obsessed with " were thinking and talking , but for a long time Democrats and a sympathetic press chastised the public for their " ageism " or superficiality . <p> Then came the televised debate between Biden and Donald Trump . Within seconds the president resembled the melting face at the end of Raiders of the Lost Ark , his eyes widened by fear . Here was explicit proof that the president was unwell , and the long-held suspicions of Americans could no longer be denied , ignored or sneered at . <p> Regarding the lack of reporting on Biden 's decline , former executive editor of The New York Times Jill Abramson said : " If enough reporters had pushed , the story was reportable . I worry that too many journalists did n't try to get the story because they did not want to be accused of helping elect Donald Trump . " <p> I would go further : the failure to do so was not only ineffectual but also civically destructive . It hardened the public 's distrust of journalists -- the same ones , incidentally , who are alarmed by plagues of disinformation . <p> The basic concerns of Americans , expressed consistently in years of polling , were rarely acknowledged by Democrats . Trump 's return , while seeming inevitable to me some 18 months ago , surprised too many who would write about such things . <p> Back home , we kept speaking in circles about the " housing affordability crisis " . This month the federal housing minister , Clare O'Neil , said on triple j , " We 're not trying to bring down house prices ... we want to see sustainable price growth . " <p> That was revealing , though , to be fair , that no politician will effusively support falling house prices . If we genuinely want to improve affordability , we need to build many more homes , remove local restrictions to doing so , and accept the screams of those objecting to improved density and the idea their assets might depreciate in value . <p> You have to choose . O'Neil , on behalf of the government , seemed to choose the Boomer asset class . Other generations are being alienated , and it will reverberate soon enough . <p> Of Middlemarch , Virginia Woolf wrote that it was the rare novel written for grown-ups , and with Perfect Days , released in Australian cinemas this year , Wim Wenders made a film for those whose attention spans could accept it . Radically slow , very little happens -- except for life itself . <p> Perfect Days follows Hirayama , a cleaner of Tokyo 's public toilets , on his daily routine . Few notice him , but he notices much : the outline of trees against the sky , the dappled light they help cast on bathroom walls . He reads avidly , nurtures saplings , and commits fastidiously to the cleaning of toilet bowls . He loves music and pauses each morning in his van to select the cassette tape he 'll play while driving to his first job . We 'll hear Otis Redding , Nina Simone and Lou Reed , the man whose song gives the film its title . <p> Hirayama speaks little but is warmly attuned to those around him . His habit of taking photos of things that please him -- most often the large maple tree before which he takes his lunch each day -- substitutes for human intimacy . Later he opens a cupboard filled with boxes , each stuffed with photos of the same tree and labelled by month . This obsessive archiving is not the work of a man blissfully wedded to the present . <p> Admiring reviews have celebrated Hirayama as a paragon of gracious contentment and decency , and it 's true he 's a beautifully sympathetic character , but his careful noticing of the present in this case is also a way of ignoring his past and his equanimity has come with great sacrifice . He is estranged from his family -- so severely that he can not bring himself to visit his dying father . <p> The film subtly suggests Hirayama 's past injuries and his decision to move beyond them . But he achieves this principally with avoidance , rather than transcendence . Most critics missed this melancholy quality . The final , remarkable scene shows a man quietly oscillating between contentment and pain . <p> The past clings to Hirayama , as it did with Shalom Nagar , who died last month . One of Adolf Eichmann 's prison guards , Nagar also became his reluctant hangman after being chosen by lottery to pull the trapdoor 's lever . <p> It was the midnight of May 31 , 1962 , when the logistics chief of the Final Solution stood upon the gallows . Eichmann had just finished his requested cigarette and cup of wine and Nagar was standing so close to him that he could smell both on his breath . <p> Eichmann 's hands and feet were tied , and the noose placed around his neck . " It was just me and Eichmann , " Nagar remembered decades later . " I was standing a few feet from him , and looked him straight in the eye . He refused to have his face covered , and did n't resist when he was told to stand on the floor that would open under him . Then I pulled the lever and he fell , dangling by the rope . " <p> Nagar objected -- there were colleagues , he argued , who wanted to pull the lever -- but he was stuck with his role . This included unfastening the bloodied corpse and transporting it to the oven . He had nightmares and panic attacks for years afterwards . <p> He remained a guard at the prison for many years and avoided Eichmann 's old cell . He became embarrassed by his fear of " a dead man " and one night walked past it alone . Seeing his own reflection in the cell 's glass door , he panicked . " I thought his ghost was coming to get me , and I fell down the stairs . " <p> In December , the South Korean president , frustrated by his party 's parliamentary minority , found a novel way to resolve democratic obstruction : by declaring martial law . At 10.30pm on December 3 , the clownish Yoon Suk Yeol appeared on television to announce the country 's grave but unspecified infiltration by North Korean agents , and the " paralysis " of parliament , as justification for suddenly outlawing political activity and assuming control of all media . <p> The declaration of martial law in South Korea is governed by strict constitutional thresholds , few of which were met , and within hours parliamentarians had nullified the declaration through an emergency vote -- despite the military blocking the entrance of parliamentarians to the National Assembly . <p> Yoon consulted little before his decision , and did n't warn the country 's " great friend " , the US , who have 30,000 troops stationed there . The declaration was swiftly responded to by both politicians and a public angered by the sudden revival of an authoritarian past . <p> Yoon has since been impeached , barred from leaving the country and will likely face prosecution for high treason . At the time of the declaration , US president-elect Donald Trump remarked , " The world is going a little crazy right now . " <p> In Syria , the Bashar al-Assad regime collapsed the way Hemingway once described going broke : slowly , then all at once . Rebels seized Damascus , liberated prisons and torture cells , and found the state-controlled amphetamine factories . Before they did , the Assad family flew to Russia to hide , as Russian troops , once critical to upholding his regime , withdrew from the country . <p> Bashar and his father , Hafez al-Assad , had held the presidency since 1971 . There is now a power vacuum with no coherent coalition among the rebels , and recent history -- specifically that of Iraq and Libya -- suggests a violent jostling for primacy , including among jihadists , as well as the assumption of vast and untended arsenals . The prospect of former Al Qaeda and ISIS forces acquiring chemical weapons and machinery has compelled Israel to bomb various sites since the collapse of the regime . <p> A little further south , Israel and Lebanon signed a ceasefire in November after months of missile exchanges , Israeli ground incursions and Mossad 's sophisticated targeting of Hezbollah 's leadership . The ceasefire , though fitfully honoured , helped further isolate Hamas , which , through more than a year of uncompromising Israeli air strikes , has lost several leaders and now governs a Gaza Strip comprising blood and rubble . Since the October 7 , 2023 , attack on Israel , in which Hamas militants killed 1200 Israelis and took about 250 hostages , local authorities say Israel 's bombardment has killed more than 45,000 Palestinians in Gaza . <p> Egypt , long contemptuous of Hamas , have recently mediated talks between the group and its once-rivals Fatah , a major part of the Palestinian Liberation Organization , about a new alliance after the war . Israel will emphatically reject any coalition involving Hamas , and Trump will likely be influential when he returns to office . <p> It was not a good year for Iran , whose threats against Israel proved largely theatrical , and whose " axis of resistance " suffered the loss of the leaders of Hamas , Hezbollah and now Syria . More than one geostrategist wondered publicly if this new insecurity would spur Iran to acquire nukes . <p> In Melbourne , the Adass Israel Synagogue was firebombed in December while worshippers prayed inside . Later , in a Jewish neighbourhood in Sydney , a car was torched and anti-Israeli graffiti sprayed on homes . <p> In the days after the synagogue 's torching , a senior staffer for the federal Greens Senator Mehreen Faruqi mused publicly that the attack could have been committed by Jews themselves . " It could very well be a white supremacist or someone enraged by the genocide or a Zionist false-flag , " he wrote . " They 've done this before . " <p> Just what , exactly , had been " done before " was not explained . <p> The Notre-Dame cathedral reopened in Paris , five years after it was substantially damaged by fire , and the Crown of Thorns relic , salvaged by firefighters in 2019 , was returned there . In October , NASA launched its Europa Clipper spacecraft on its mission to the moon of Jupiter that gives it its name . It 's scheduled to enter Europa 's orbit in April 2030 , after a three-billion-kilometre journey , when it will perform close scans of the moon 's surface and analyse the oceans beneath its icy crust . <p> In Vancouver , Taylor Swift finished her almost two-year , 149-show Eras tour -- earning $2 billion in gate receipts from 10 million attendees in five continents and inspiring a shadow industry of torturously embittered think pieces . <p> Neil Young 's music returned to Spotify after a two-year boycott to protest against Joe Rogan 's podcast , while a federal agency confirmed it investigated Trump 's nominee for health secretary , Robert F. Kennedy Jr , after a 2012 interview with his daughter resurfaced in which she described her father once decapitating a beached whale with a chainsaw and then securing the head to the roof of the family 's car . " Every time we accelerated on the highway , whale juice would pour into the windows of the car , " Kathleen Kennedy said . " We all had plastic bags over our heads with mouth holes cut out , and people on the highway were giving us the finger , but that was just normal day-to-day stuff for us . " <p> Vladimir Putin encouraged his citizens to have sex on their lunchbreaks to improve Russia 's fertility rate , while a candidate for Tokyo 's governor ran on a platform of legalising polygamy to redress Japan 's own worsening demographics . The Lancet reported that by 2050 the fertility rate of 75 per cent of countries would be below the replacement threshold . <p> Finally , the bawdy and lushly imaginative novelist Robert Coover , whose 1977 novel The Public Burning was a bestseller disavowed by its own publisher for fear of attracting lawsuits from Richard Nixon and Roy Cohn , died aged 92 . " I learnt realism from Kafka , " he said in 2014 , " who would take a metaphor , twist it , and then intransigently pursue it . " <p> This article was first published in the print edition of The Saturday Paper on December 21 , 2024 as " Imperfect days " . <p> For almost a decade , The Saturday Paper has published Australia 's leading writers and thinkers . We have pursued stories that are ignored elsewhere , covering them with sensitivity and depth . We have done this on refugee policy , on government integrity , on robo-debt , on aged care , on climate change , on the pandemic . <p> All our journalism is fiercely independent . It relies on the support of readers . By subscribing to The Saturday Paper , you are ensuring that we can continue to produce essential , issue-defining coverage , to dig out stories that take time , to doggedly hold to account politicians and the political class . <p> There are very few titles that have the freedom and the space to produce journalism like this . In a country with a concentration of media ownership unlike anything else in the world , it is vitally important . Your subscription helps make it possible . <p> Martin McKenzie-Murray The sleazy world of professional wrestling impresario Vince McMahon trades on scandal and brutality -- and has left in its wake a trail of lost lives , broken men and allegations of abuse . <p> Martin McKenzie-Murray Concerns have been raised over the effectiveness of the CFMEU 's administrator , as the union continues to employ illegal ' no ticket ' practices on sites and demand payments for sacked officials . <p> Martin McKenzie-Murray The first Test against India started promisingly enough , but Australia 's humiliating capitulation raises tough questions for selectors over the form and age of supposedly star players .
