<h> The Spanish Civil War drew volunteers from far and wide in the fight against fascism -- today its history has become emblematic of struggles around the world . By Kurt Johnson . <h> The art of not forgetting in Barcelona <p> We 're running late . By the time we have woven through central Barcelona 's warren of alleys and plazas to reach Pla ? a de Sant Felip Neri , the square 's entrance is fenced off by a flimsy yellow barricade . Beyond , a dozen schoolkids squeal and chase a ball over the grimy paving stones , dodging around a dormant fountain where a lone girl sits . Except for a few leafless trees , nothing dampens the crack as the ball ricochets against the fa ? ade of the Sant Felip Neri church , its sandstone rudely gouged and cratered . From behind the barricade our guide , historian Nick Lloyd , explains that on the morning of January 30 , 1938 , Italian fascist aeroplanes bombed the church , which was being used as an air-raid shelter . Everything but the fa ? ade collapsed , burying all inside . <p> The children playing around us make this history very real and one of our party hangs back , moved to tears . Lloyd compares this bombing to the conflicts in Ukraine and Gaza , joining the present day to the Spanish Civil War , a conflict that presaged World War II , drew volunteers from around the globe and cost half a million lives . A panel fixed to the wall recounts the bombing in Catalan , Castilian and English . The panel also notes that for 35 years Franco 's regime explained the brutalised fa ? ade as a site where priests were executed . <p> Lloyd is originally from Stockport , Greater Manchester , and has retained a northern lilt , which in his lively accounts takes on the cadence of a union leader addressing a crowd of comrades . Among the dozen Americans and Canadians who now fill the alley are a socialist , a retired human rights lawyer and a labour organiser . Michelle from Seattle interviewed Abe Osheroff , a member of the Lincoln Brigade of 3000 Americans who travelled to Spain in 1937 to fight fascism . Tim came after reading about Chinese volunteers -- " mostly medics " , he tells me -- who served on the Republican side . Everyone has come with curiosity , hoping that place may provide the answers missing in books . <p> We started out in the crowded Pla ? a de Catalunya , where the jostling signage of overtourism obscures a historical record warped by what scholars now call " Spanish-style fascism " . Lloyd fishes out a black-and-white photograph of the Hotel Col ? n , which today is draped in an advertisement for the new Samsung Galaxy , but back then was bedecked with portraits of Stalin and Lenin , and a Catalan banner declaring allegiance to the Comintern . We consider a plinth pockmarked with bullet holes , proving that here in July 1936 the Pla ? a de Catalunya was engulfed in violent street battles . <p> Lloyd says there is nothing new about the outside world projecting its own struggles onto the Spanish Civil War , which he calls " the most international conflict in any one country " . <p> Lloyd connects the bustling present to history 's stills , animating black and white with powerful quotes and personal accounts . He calls this tour a " walking museum " , and over its 15 years he has filled a bulging tote bag with photographs , maps , postcards and artefacts , such as a lighter embedded with a bullet ( we do n't know if the owner survived ) . A hand-drawn placard decodes the constellation of leftist political parties that ranged from social democrats to Stalinists and anarchists -- a precarious balance that imploded , playing right into Franco 's hands . <p> A walking museum is important in a country where no dedicated cultural institution memorialises its civil war . A National Museum of the Battle of Teruel and the Civil War is currently under construction , but has become the focus of disputes between right-wing regional governments and the socialist national government , casting doubt on the project 's future . <p> This contest over history is longstanding . After Franco died in 1975 , Spain transitioned to democracy with the Pact of Forgetting , a political decision that led to a 1977 amnesty for perpetrators of political violence and forbade the exhumation of the mass graves that the regime filled with up to 114,000 of its " disappeared " enemies . This continued right up until 2007 , when the Historical Memory Law was passed to recognise these victims . Fifteen years later , the Democratic Memory Law made the government responsible for recovering and identifying them . The right has opposed these laws , and today three autonomous regions are proposing " harmony laws " seeking to undermine the task of investigating and memorialising . <p> At the beginning of the tour , Lloyd asked why we came . Answers included historical curiosity , political interest and one fanboy tracing the footsteps of Orwell ( me ) . More than one American wondered aloud whether what happened here could soon happen back home . <p> " At least Trump won decisively , so there wo n't be a civil war , this time at least , " a woman whispers to me . <p> Lloyd later tells me such concerns are coming up more often among his groups , " after the first Trump victory but also the feeling in the last few years of an impending civil war " . He says there is nothing new about the outside world projecting its own struggles onto the Spanish Civil War , which he calls " the most international conflict in any one country " . <p> When we stop at the cavernous cafe Granja Dulcinea , to escape the chill with coffee and churros dipped in thick chocolate , he explains how 35,000 volunteers from around the world took up the struggle against fascism -- and in some cases for it . He shows photographs of volunteers , among them nurses from Australia and an overexposed pic from the Battle of the Ebro showing Sydneysider Jack Walker and Bert Bryan from New Zealand firing into the scrub . The overexposure reflects the heat of battle , Lloyd says . <p> Most volunteers arrived from Europe , cast out by the Great Depression and political turmoil . Lloyd paraphrases historian Helen Graham : " Those young boys from the new states of the old Austro -- Hungarian Empire -- and by extension Germany , Poland , Greece and Italy -- whose lives had been made a misery by local fascist bullyboys in provincial towns and are now living rather precarious lives in the Western democracies , wanted nothing better than to get even with those fellas ... how could they do it ? To Spain . " <p> The sentiment and ensuing horrors were immortalised in the era 's art and literature by the likes of Picasso , Hemingway and , of course , George Orwell . Almost all of us on the tour have read Orwell 's gonzo account of the war in Homage to Catalonia , and we are guided to salient locations such as the Hotel Continental , whose roof Orwell guarded while fighting for the anarchist POUM party . Lloyd explains that the POUM unit was desperately underequipped , echoing Orwell 's experiences of his unit 's high morale but shambolic organisation . Yet these experiences of war and its aftermath shaped Orwell 's politics and later writing . The rats that scurried over him in the Aragon trench surely seeded his nightmare vision of Room 101 in 1984 , and the betrayal of a worker 's movement by Stalin-backed communists led him to identify the distinction between truth and lies as the basis for opposing totalitarianism . <p> But the central figure in Lloyd 's tour is Francisco Boix , who he first saw memorialised on a plaque in his neighbourhood of El Poble-sec . Boix was a professional photographer who fought for the Republican side , before fleeing to France where he fought the Nazis . He was captured and deported to the infamous Austrian Mauthausen concentration camp , where his work in a photo lab allowed him to smuggle out negatives that became crucial evidence in the Nuremberg trials . <p> Lloyd recently designed a dedicated Boix walking tour in Catalan for locals in conjunction with his library , which specialises in books on the Spanish Civil War and the Holocaust . For the tour guide , Boix 's story sets Spain within the broader European , and indeed global , contest between remembering and forgetting historical trauma . <p> In front of the library is a dedication to Boix on a Stolperstein , or stumbling stone -- the cobblestones bearing brass plaques that are dotted throughout Europe to commemorate the Holocaust 's victims . Stumbling serves as a reminder , and the stones embed history in place , as Lloyd wants his tour to do . To him , history is " the art of not forgetting " . <p> This article was first published in the print edition of The Saturday Paper on December 21 , 2024 as " Art of not forgetting " . <p> For almost a decade , The Saturday Paper has published Australia 's leading writers and thinkers . We have pursued stories that are ignored elsewhere , covering them with sensitivity and depth . We have done this on refugee policy , on government integrity , on robo-debt , on aged care , on climate change , on the pandemic . <p> All our journalism is fiercely independent . It relies on the support of readers . By subscribing to The Saturday Paper , you are ensuring that we can continue to produce essential , issue-defining coverage , to dig out stories that take time , to doggedly hold to account politicians and the political class . <p> There are very few titles that have the freedom and the space to produce journalism like this . In a country with a concentration of media ownership unlike anything else in the world , it is vitally important . Your subscription helps make it possible .
