<p> After 1,000 submissions , a heated debate session , and one very enthusiastic winner ( congrats , Max ! ) , the Shitstirrers Index has become one of Crikey 's most successful initiatives . How can I tell ? Well , not only have the articles attracted a high number of readers all week and a huge amount of comments , shares and reach on our social platforms ... they 've also generated lots of ( good-spirited ) complaints . <p> Just like that other iconic Australian list -- triple j 's Hottest 100 -- many people were unhappy with the final ranking . " Rex Patrick was robbed ! " , " Who would vote for Joe Aston ? " , " Pingers shoulda been higher ! " <p> It was n't just our audience who had things to say . Honouree and new Crikey subscriber Taylor Auerbach took to the comments to argue that his 2024 performance should have earned him better than a third place finish : <p> " I 'm not trying to stir shit here , but I must voice my disagreement with Crikey 's characterisation of both me and my shit stirring . So far the only person who 's attained a higher rank than me is a senator who abused the literal monarch in Parliament House , so I know I 'm up against it . But third ? I really do feel dudded . There 's something about my shit stirring that rings of firstness , no ? Ms Thorpe 's theatrics , though commendable , required merely a Parliament House security pass which was already in her possession . But me , ' little known Auerbach ' , as you put it , ' launched ' , as you put it , ' a last-minute legal intervention ' , as you put it , apparently under my own steam and with no obvious legal right to intervene . How can you beat that ? Was I ' doing it for the right reasons ' , as you put it ? ' Probably not ' , as you put it , but that 's because I was n't doing what you claim I was doing . Nor was the ' blast radius from Auerbach ' quite felt in the same outwardly direction that you describe -- but these are mere details . ' Is Auerbach a good guy ' , as you ask ? Who am I to say ? But am I good Shit Stirrer ? Well , a Shit Stirrer who apparently on his own initiative decided to , and pulled off with ' spinning trapeze ' artistry , as you put it , a ' legal intervention ' that stole the show , as you put it ? Beat that . " <p> Auerbach maintains that there are many inaccuracies in his entry , and does not consider himself a shitstirrer . <p> While the judges ' deliberations will remain classified for at least 100 years , perhaps Auerbach can take some comfort in knowing one member of the panel was advocating for him to claim first place ? And based solely on whose announcement got the most support and shares on social media , Vincent Namatjira was the clear Shitstirrer People 's Choice . <p> The beauty of the Shitstirrers Index is that it 's subjective and endlessly debatable . Australia has so many noble mischiefmakers who deserve acknowledgement for being a nuisance to the powerful . So , here 's a list of Shitstirrer Honourable mentions -- the names that came up again and again , and the cases you made on their behalf . <p> Cathy Wilcox : " The sharpest , most biting cartoonist who hits the mark every time . Has to be up there with the best shitstirrers we 've got . " <p> Craig Foster : " As a former footballer and football broadcaster , Foz has a broader and more diverse following than the self-styled stirrers of the legacy media and the political class . Compare Craig to apparently similar pundits , and his sincerity and authenticity totally shines . Foz is not here to make us feel comfortable and smug . " <p> Dan Ilic : " Always goes it alone for the common good , and gets a good crowd along with him . " <p> Giordano Nanni and theJuice Media team : " For his creative and entertaining spin on how to get the message across . " <p> Jonathan Haidt : " An American who had more effect on Australia than Biden or Trump this year , he published ' The Anxious Generation ' which triggered South Australia Premier Peter Malinauskas ' quest to ban kids from social media , resulting in the federal Parliament rushing through a ban . " <p> Jonathan Sriranganathan : " He upset the entire Brisbane political establishment by protesting regularly , and running for mayor on a radical platform . " <p> Kristin O'Connell : " The co-founder of the Anti Poverty Centre is a thorn in the side of the rich , a powerful advocate for her peers grappling with the dysfunctional welfare system , and insists on better from the NGOs that exist to plug the holes . " <p> Paul Barry : " The first shitstirrer award should go to a guy who wo n't have another chance to win it . He highlighted hypocrisies and cashgrabs in Australia 's biggest newsrooms for 11 years , and Media Watch 's work this year on the reporting on Gaza was some of the most honest and necessary journalism they 've ever done . " Editor 's note : Paul , you 'll still be eligible without the Media Watch platform -- keep stirring ! <p> Rex Patrick : " With his FOI efforts he also helps others find shit that governments do n't want to see daylight . " <p> Rick Morton : " For laying the cruelty of robodebt ( and the wider LNP bloodlust ) bare in his brilliant new book , Mean Streak . " <p> Simon Holmes ? Court : " This shitstirrer , by doing nothing other than coordinate fundraising for independent candidates who want climate change action , integrity in government and respect for women , has got the government shitting itself . So much so they are trying to legislate his activities into illegality . " <p> Stephen Mayne : " Someone with the moral and intellectual courage of Mayne would be so annoying to those corporate types -- especially the Murdochs -- popping into AGMs via Zoom or in the flesh to ask well-prepared , curly questions . He 's prolific on X , chasing up corporate inconsistencies and malfeasance . Relentless . Great to watch him work . " <p> The YIMBY movement : " Sydney YIMBYs made a beautiful alliance of old money , trots and conservatives angry and changed the premier 's policy direction . " <p> Share <h> About the Author <p> Crystal Andrews is Crikey 's readers ' editor . She is also the founder of Zee Feed , a digital media outlet producing feminist commentary on news , social issues , digital and pop culture for young Australian women . <p> Crikey is committed to hosting lively discussions . Help us keep the conversation useful , interesting and welcoming . We aim to publish comments quickly in the interest of promoting robust conversation , but we 're a small team and we deploy filters to protect against legal risk . Occasionally your comment may be held up while we review , but we 're working as fast as we can to keep the conversation rolling . <p> The Crikey comment section is members-only content . Please subscribe to leave a comment . <p> The Crikey comment section is members-only content . Please login to leave a comment . <p> Crikey is an independent Australian source for news , investigations , analysis and opinion focusing on politics , media , economics , health , international affairs , the climate , business , society and culture . We are guided by a deceptively simple , old idea : tell the truth and shame the devil .
