<p> In early 2022 I unblocked Crikey 's political editor Bernard Keane on Twitter . I figured it was only polite before I began editing him . He graciously unblocked me too and neither of us acknowledged it . <p> Little did I know , the first thing that would surprise me at Crikey was that Keane was n't the grumpy old bastard I 'd expected . In fact , it was immediately apparent he was an editor 's dream -- prolific ( pitching and producing two entirely original pieces within a few hours each morning ) , fastidious ( we barely tweak a word of his copy ) and humble ( some subscribers are here just for BK and yet he 's more than once said he 's not convinced his opinion on this , that or the other is particularly noteworthy ) . <p> Editing his work taught me the first lesson I 'd need to edit the 600 or so editions I sent in during my time here -- leave your assumptions at the door and be open to reevaluating all that makes you uncomfortable . What if your misgivings turned out to be a greyhound lover with an encyclopaedic brain ? For the next two-and-a-half years Crikey became to me what , on a good day , we should be to our readers : surprising , informative , challenging , gossipy and ridiculous . <p> The ways in which power works in this country and the people who wield it can be absurd , yet those in the fourth estate who should be poking and prodding the powerful are too often po-faced and humourless . At my first job in news as a cadet journalist at the national broadsheet , I watched a gaggle of bemused editors gawking at a delivery from Crikey . It was a chocolate cake congratulating The Australian on five decades of climate denialism for the masthead 's 50th birthday . " That seems like a more fun place to work , " I thought , helping myself to a piece . A decade later I 'd learn just how much fun it was . <p> I learned to expect the unexpected . I remember when our political reporter Anton Nilsson -- better known for revealing misused taxpayer funds and the **29;2019;TOOLONG the Liberals -- let me know he 'd just spotted Jordan Peterson at Canberra airport . With his signature Swedish directness , Nilsson approached the controversial media personality for an interview and revealed the details of his conversation with Scott Morrison . <p> Although being sued by a billionaire is up there , for me the " Crikey sick feeling " past editors have described first came late one night in December 2022 when our associate editor Cam Wilson got in touch with a concerning exclusive . He was the first reporter to find a YouTube account showing footage of the Wieambilla shooters foreshadowing violence against police in the lead-up to the tragic attack . We spent the night planning how to cover this ethically and sensitively and in the early hours the next morning got up a story that would set the news agenda for every other major outlet that day . <p> There were opinion and analysis pieces that will stay with me forever , like Grace Tame 's searing essay on what it feels like to be the subject of News Corp coverage , Tarneen Onus Williams ' rousing piece in the wake of the Voice to Parliament referendum defeat , and Catriona Menzies-Pike 's review of Scott Morrison 's memoir . In particular , I will never forget a piece co-authored by Palestinian nephrologist at Al-Shifa Hospital Dr Hammam Alloh on the devastation of healthcare in Gaza . He was killed by an Israeli airstrike the next month . Weeks before he was asked why he had n't yet evacuated and abandoned his patients . He responded : " You think I went to medical school and for my postgraduate degrees for a total of 14 years so I think only about my life and not my patients ? " <p> I have felt so incredibly lucky to work at an independent media company for the past few years when each outlet has faced its own specific internal battles over editorial independence . I leave Crikey believing independent media has never been more important . We do so much with so little and we have n't always got it right but we 've done a pretty damn good job of owning it when we have n't , an approach that I believe is the only defendable one at a time when trust in media is so fragile . <p> As an outsider , Crikey has a crucial role to play in unpicking how power in legacy media works -- whether it is documenting who has been on junkets or tracking newsroom cuts -- but we also have a function in fighting for press freedom . Our REDACTED series showcased how journalists , politicians and citizens use freedom of information requests to bring you important stories and hold the government to account , even in the face of delays , redactions and rejections . We 're not big enough to be territorial , so instead we have a role to play in lifting up the best of Australian journalism . The final series I wanted to commission before I left was our Movers and Shakers survey of the nation 's media elite to capture an industry in flux , ask smart veterans for their wisdom , give people the opportunity to compliment each other and , of course , shake out a little gossip on my way out . <p> Independent media maintains its independence because of you : the readers . When you 're not relying on media moguls , gambling cash or fossil fuel money to fund journalism , you need your audience to support you . And so I finish my final piece for Crikey as I end all my daily newsletters , thanking you more than ever , for supporting independent media . I know this team will approach an election year like nowhere else and I 'll be cheering them on from the sidelines . <p> We 're on our way to finding you a dazzling new editor for the new year to work with our brilliant editor-in-chief Sophie Black and unflappable deputy editor Jack Callil and I 'm excited to pass the baton on to someone great . <p> Warmest , <p> Gina <p> Share <h> About the Author <p> Gina Rushton is editor of Crikey . She has worked as an editor at Nine and reporter at Australian Associated Press , AAP FactCheck , The Australian and BuzzFeed News . She has written for The Guardian , Vogue , Harper 's Bazaar , The Monthly , The West Australian , Business Insider Australia and The Saturday Paper . She is also the author of The Most Important Job in the World . <h> Topics <p> Crikey is committed to hosting lively discussions . Help us keep the conversation useful , interesting and welcoming . We aim to publish comments quickly in the interest of promoting robust conversation , but we 're a small team and we deploy filters to protect against legal risk . Occasionally your comment may be held up while we review , but we 're working as fast as we can to keep the conversation rolling . <p> The Crikey comment section is members-only content . Please subscribe to leave a comment . <p> The Crikey comment section is members-only content . Please login to leave a comment . <p> Crikey is an independent Australian source for news , investigations , analysis and opinion focusing on politics , media , economics , health , international affairs , the climate , business , society and culture . We are guided by a deceptively simple , old idea : tell the truth and shame the devil .
