<h> The best -- and worst -- of 2024 : My list is n't objective , but that 's the fun of it <h> Save articles for later <p> Add articles to your saved list and come back to them any time . <p> Advertisement <p> The festive season is a time for lists . Shopping lists . Christmas card lists . ( Of course I still send Christmas cards . ) Lists of New Year 's resolutions . And , for newspapers , lists of the best ( and worst ) of the past year . There is n't any objectivity about them . There is n't meant to be . They unapologetically reflect the interests , sympathies and prejudices of the compiler . That 's what makes them fun . Here are 10 things that stood out for me in 2024 . <p> 1 . Best performance by a minister.Don Farrell . Nicknamed The Godfather , the minister for trade flies below the radar . A consummate dealmaker and political fixer , he is the quiet achiever among a cabinet of high-profile mediocrities . In a government dominated by Labor 's Left , Farrell owes his power to his control of the right-wing shop assistants ' union ( the " shoppies " ) . As a social conservative , he would give John Howard a run for his money . Farrell is emblematic of an older Labor Party -- a living reminder of the days when Labor politicians were real working people , not apparatchiks , activists and ambulance-chasers . Also the deputy Senate leader , his negotiating skill makes him much better at winning over difficult crossbenchers than the famously rude Penny Wong . <p> 2 . Best performance by a shadow minister . James Paterson . Elected to the Senate in 2016 aged just 28 , the Liberal Party 's youngest-ever senator soon lived down the view that he was too young for the job . First as chairman of parliament 's intelligence committee during the Morrison government , then as shadow minister for home affairs , he quickly mastered the national security brief . Paterson 's indefatigable presence in the media , where every answer is word-perfect , as well as his lethal performances in Senate estimates have won him a deserved reputation as a baby-faced political killer . <p> Jacqui Lambie in the Senate in November.Credit : Alex Ellinghausen <p> 3 . Best performance by a crossbencher . Jacqui Lambie . The Tasmanian senator may not be an orator of Ciceronian eloquence . Much more importantly , she is a down-to-earth , fearless , passionate fighter for her causes . And her causes are not the vaporous abstractions so beloved by wealthy teals , but real people -- the classic Aussie battlers , like Lambie herself , who suffer from real injustices . In particular , veterans . She is hugely effective at getting results out of the supine bureaucrats who live in fear of her . If there were one politician I 'd want in my corner if I had a fight on my hands , it would be Jacqui . <p> Loading <p> 4 . Best performance by a judge . Justice Michael Lee . This pleasingly idiosyncratic jurist -- one of his hobbies is collecting Richard Nixon memorabilia -- has presided over some of the Federal Court 's most complex cases . But it was the way he handled the Bruce Lehrmann defamation trial that rocketed him to public acclaim . It is exquisitely difficult to conduct the hearing of a case which is already a cause c ? l ? bre , yet his honour did so with exemplary skill . His judgment was painstaking , fair and -- important , given the huge public interest -- comprehensible . He even managed to be drily humorous -- which , given the sensitivity of the issues , was no mean feat . He also gave us the word of the year , " omnishambles " . Appointing Lee in 2017 was one of my best decisions as attorney-general . But , in a spirit of full disclosure , I must confess I also gave Lehrmann his first job in Parliament House , which was undoubtedly one of my worst . In the Federal Court in Sydney this year , my alpha and omega came face to face . <p> 5 . Gutsiest small country . Moldova . This tiny nation of 2.4 million people , landlocked between Ukraine and Romania , held elections late this year . Russian military units were encamped along its eastern flank in its breakaway province Transnistria . Further to its east , Russian armies continued to butcher Ukraine and its people . Its western neighbour Romania elected a Putin apologist as president . Yet Moldovans heroically withstood immense regional pressure , overt Russian threats and industrial-scale election interference to stare Vladimir Putin down . During the first round of voting on October 20 , they also approved ( by the wafer-thin margin of 50.35 per cent to 49.65 per cent ) a referendum to include the goal of European Union membership in the nation 's constitution . Then , in the second-round voting on November 4 , they re-elected the pro-European President Maia Sandu over a Putin-backed goon , by 55 per cent to 45 per cent -- an important event that was barely noticed because of another election , elsewhere , the following day . <p> 6 . Most successful stunt.Lidia Thorpe 's rant at the King and Queen in Parliament 's Great Hall . The Green-turned-independent senator 's ratbaggery made headlines domestically and internationally . Predictably , it dominated the news in Britain . Australia 's tabloid media furiously denounced her attention-seeking as they gave her all the attention she sought . And an honourable mention for the year 's best display of sangfroid : King Charles ' majestically benign reaction . ( Equally priceless was the Queen 's perplexed expression of astonishment and bemusement . ) Although constitutional monarchists condemned Thorpe 's behaviour , many of us were also secretly delighted : such displays set back the republican movement even further . Which brings us to ... <p> 7 . Greatest lost cause . Australian republicanism . A campaign once led by public figures of the stature of Malcolm Turnbull and Paul Keating is now the preserve of nonentities . In January , the co-chair of the Australian Republican Movement , former Labor senator Nova Peris , declared that the failure of the Voice referendum meant a republic was off the agenda for the foreseeable future . Peris and her co-chair later fell into a bitter public dispute over Gaza ; both resigned and the ARM has fallen into disarray . Meanwhile , partly thanks to people such as Thorpe , support for a republic has plummeted to its lowest in decades . At this rate , the next King of Australia who may have to worry about his antipodean crown will be George VII . <p> Powerful speech : Julian Leeser.Credit : The Sydney Morning Herald <p> 8 . Greatest display of moral clarity . Julian Leeser 's speech on antisemitism in the House of Representatives on June 6 . Leeser , one of only four Jewish MPs , moved to establish a judicial inquiry into antisemitism . In the course of his speech , he said : " I am so sick and tired of this government ... being unable to say antisemitism without saying Islamophobia in the same breath . To fail to singularly identify and call out the particularity of antisemitism ... is itself antisemitism . " Leeser 's words skewered the cowardly , dishonest narrative that there is no difference between Jewish Australians and the apologists for Hamas and Hezbollah terrorists who force them to live in fear of attacks on their schools , their synagogues and their homes . He captured the nauseating evil of moral equivalence perfectly . Predictably , his motion was voted down by the government . <p> 9 . Writer who caused the most trouble . Joe Aston , by the length of a straight . His bestseller The Chairman 's Lounge , a book about the corporate culture of Qantas , lit a political brushfire that scorched Anthony Albanese before spreading across the aisle to singe the opposition and expose the hypocrisy of sanctimonious teals . I do n't read many business books , but I hugely enjoyed the skill with which Aston unpacks Qantas ' financial statements in language that is at once analytical , witty and bitchy . ( Think of an auditor 's report written by Dame Edna Everage . ) As well as his mastery of the comedic possibilities of a sarcastic footnote . <p> 10 . Greatest political comeback . We all know who that is . Unfortunately . <p> Happy new year . <p> George Brandis is a former high commissioner to the UK and a former Liberal senator and federal attorney-general . He is a professor at ANU.
