<h> Save articles for later <p> Monash vice chancellor Sharon Pickering , in the 11 months since she was appointed to lead Australia 's largest university , has spent a lot of time thinking about hate . <p> Reflecting on a year when her university , along with so many others around Australia and in other liberal democracies , was engulfed by socially corrosive forces unleashed by the war in Gaza , Pickering says leaders in academia need to do more than take the heat out of campus conflicts . <p> In an interview with this masthead , Pickering says the first challenge for universities is to get better at recognising hate when they see it , whether it is in the form of an anti-Zionist chant directed at Jewish students or the more subtle discrimination she has observed which makes Muslim students feel excluded from campus life . <p> She says it is the essential job of universities to interrogate and better understand the origins , manifestations and impacts of such hatreds , rather than merely suppress expressions of antisemitism and Islamophobia . <p> " We ca n't just rely on dialling things down , " she says . <p> " You ca n't think about a conflict as simply public order management . You have actually got to think about what building peace looks like . You ca n't just deal with this as some kind of student conduct matter . It 's not . <p> Advertisement <p> " This is deep conflict and disagreement . You have got to think about what we need to build that will start to unknot those big social , political and cultural problems . That means we have to find ways to better understand the prejudice and hate , and we need to find better ways of not just resolving that but creating conditions where you are not resorting to that . <p> " When we are dealing with prejudice , hate and conflict , you ca n't just turn it off in people 's lives , you ca n't say just ' leave it at the door ' . " <p> It is with this mission in mind that Monash University , named after one of our greatest Jewish Australians , John Monash , this year established a Campus Cohesion research program , led by David Slucki and Susan Carland , to study discrimination experienced by Jewish , Israeli , Muslim , Arab and Palestinian students and staff , and develop a practical guide to prevent and respond better to hate . <p> Speaking at the formal launch of the program in November , Pickering 's address to a room stacked with Labor MPs and representatives of Jewish and Islamic communities was noteworthy for the frankness with which she acknowledged the problem confronting her university . <p> An Israeli supporter and Palestian supporter sit down to discuss the war in Gaza at the Monash University encampment in May.Credit : Justin McManus <p> " The pain and anguish affecting our staff and students since 7 October last year are the worst I have seen , and prejudice and hate have broken through their thin veil , " she told them . <p> " Today , the sector is at a pivotal moment . University campuses around the world are at the fulcrum of so many issues for our society . These are issues that we do n't walk away from . Facing them is part of our fundamental purpose -- it is also our responsibility . " <p> Advertisement <p> In testimony this month to a federal parliamentary inquiry into antisemitism at universities , a hearing held days after arsonists torched the Adass Israel synagogue in Melbourne and a car in the heart of Sydney 's Jewish community , Pickering said antisemitism was systemic in Australia . <p> " It is impossible we would have seen a synagogue burned and cars burned in the past week if it was not systemic . " <p> She also revealed that at the height of this year 's pro-Palestinian encampments , Monash had permanently banned seven non-students from the university 's campuses , temporarily suspended 20 people and initiated misconduct proceedings against 11 students who had crossed the line from causing offence to causing harm . <p> Members of the Adass Israel synagogue after this month 's arsonist attack.Credit : Simon Schluter <p> Pickering 's administration provoked the ire of pro-Palestinian supporters when it judged that encampment protest signs declaring " Zionists are not welcome " harassed and vilified Jewish students . Pickering says while she will " die in a ditch for academic freedom and freedom of speech " , these freedoms are not unlimited . " We are a place to challenge and be challenged , but it is not on anyone 's terms , " she says . <p> In a wide-ranging discussion , held against the backdrop of an ongoing war in the Middle East and a bloodless battle raging in Canberra over the number of international students enrolled at Australian universities , Pickering took aim at the populism that has infected our politics and the reduction of universities to whipping boys for both sides of politics . <p> She bluntly describes the Albanese government 's proposed cap on student numbers as " some of the worst legislation we have seen " and says the characterisation of Monash as " elite " is at odds with its central , sprawling campus located in a light industrial suburb and nearly 100,000 enrolled students . <p> Advertisement <p> Loading <p> Of those , 44,723 are international students , with the foreign intake skewed towards postgraduate and higher degree studies . The recruitment of these students , who have financial support and credentials to gain places in top-tier universities in other English-speaking countries , takes between 18 months and two years . <p> " It is entirely reasonable for a government to want to have a conversation and approach to think about long-term planning around international student numbers , " Pickering says . " That legislation was not that conversation . <p> " Provisions within in it and the powers it gave the minister were akin to provisions you might see in counter-terrorism legislation . They were unfettered powers to set limits . To do that to one of your largest industries and to do that to students is entirely unacceptable . " <p> Pickering makes the comparison with counter-terrorism laws advisedly . Prior to her career as a university administrator , she was an internationally recognised criminologist who specialised in the study of border crossings , migration and human trafficking . <p> The debate about international students -- a class of temporary migrants which both the Albanese government and Peter Dutton-led opposition have tied to public anxiety about population growth and housing shortages -- will only intensify as Australia enters a federal election year next year . Pickering says the political distillation of international education to a zero-sum argument about migration is a symptom of a bigger trend in Australian public life . <p> Pickering describes the proposed cap on international student numbers as some of the worst legislation she has seen.Credit : Eamon Gallagher <p> Advertisement <p> " The space to have a sensible conversation about it has basically been lost , " she says . " You are in two diametrically opposed camps and there is nothing in the middle . It 's ridiculous . <p> " We have got an ageing population , we have got an economy that 's based on digging things out of the ground and selling houses to one another , yet somehow , we can only talk about migration policy as an on-off switch . We have to reach a level of maturity and sophistication where we are capable of having those conversations in a meaningful way . " <p> Loading <p> The aim of the Campus Cohesion project , which is funded to run for two years , is to bring together political science , psychology , public health , law and education researchers to develop guidelines for students and staff to prevent and respond to hatred and discrimination towards Jews and Muslims . <p> Pickering says that when faced with the kind of hatred seen on campus this year , universities need to do more than avoid difficult topics or censor debate . " To my mind , it is not about , to be perfectly frank , talking nicely about intractable conflicts ; it 's about taking on the responsibility of creating the leaders of tomorrow who will be part of taking intractable situations forward . <p> " There is a lot of deep hurt and disagreement , but our job is to go beyond where we are now . "
