<h> Save articles for later <p> One decision stands out from all others in what has been a grim year for Prime Minister Anthony Albanese -- and it holds a clue as to what he may do next . <p> Albanese ends 2024 in a dire position for a leader who must face the people in just a few short months : the economy is weak , the federal budget is back in deficit and his personal popularity is down . <p> But his allies name his move to overhaul personal tax cuts in January , delivering bigger benefits to millions of workers , as the best example of what he did right this year . <p> Albanese began the year with a bold move by breaking an election pledge to leave the " stage three " personal tax cuts intact after years of argument about a tax package that had been written into law by the Coalition five years earlier . <p> Opposition Leader Peter Dutton railed against the Labor changes and called for an election to be held to decide the matter , only to retreat when polls showed that most Australians liked the idea of a $313 billion package with bigger tax cuts for more workers on low and middle incomes . <p> Albanese won the policy and the politics . He took a risk and it paid off . The tax cuts went ahead as scheduled in July with the Labor brand stamped all over them . <p> If there was a reward from the electorate , however , it evaporated before the summer was over . Just as Albanese seemed to be taking the initiative , the Labor primary vote went into reverse . It fell from 35 per cent in December to 34 per cent in February and 32 per cent in March . <p> Advertisement <p> This became the pattern of the year . Nothing seemed to work for Albanese . His readiness to do radio interviews , while Dutton avoided scrutiny , did not appear to create a lasting bond with listeners . His speaking style , with mangled sentences instead of sharp messages , made it harder for him to cut through . <p> Loading <p> Worse , the government never seemed to galvanise Australians with a sense of political mission . It unveiled more assistance for childcare , an age limit for social media , subsidies for energy bills , a wage boost for aged care workers and changes to prescriptions to make medicines cheaper . And it drifted down in the polls . <p> " Labor and Albanese appear so dour , a government of grinding necessity , " says Paul Strangio , the emeritus professor of politics at Monash University . " The sense of missed opportunity is all the greater since they are in office at a time when the public shows signs of being fed up with business as usual . Albanese does n't appear to know how to harness or manage that sentiment . " <p> Strangio highlighted this challenge in an essay for Inside Story in September and says there has been no shift in the pattern in the final months of the year . " Growth in office has been a hallmark of many of Australia 's best prime ministers , " he says . " Albanese is yet to demonstrate this . " <p> While Albanese was elected to parliament in 1996 and watched John Howard govern for 11 years , there is no sign he is learning a lesson from the Howard era . " When Howard was in trouble during his first term , he drew upon his deep-seated convictions to strike out in a bold direction , " Strangio says . The result was a high-stakes election on the GST . <p> Advertisement <p> ? Prime Minister Anthony Albanese and Chinese President Xi Jinping hold hands for the G20 group photo in Rio de Janeiro in November.Credit : Alex Ellinghausen <p> On international affairs , however , Albanese has moved easily into overseas meetings and global summits . He lowered the temperature with China , resumed leadership meetings with Chinese President Xi Jinping and helped restart exports of beef , barley and lobster . This added billions of dollars to Australian industry . <p> The defeat of the Indigenous Voice in October 2023 still reverberates around Australian politics -- and polling shows a slide in Labor support from that moment -- but the government points to other achievements in this term , such as legislating a climate target to cut greenhouse gas emissions , to counter claims it has too little to show for its time in office . <p> One minister says Australians will back the prime minister when the election arrives because of his personal qualities and what he offers in hard policy . " We are closer to making sure voters see this as a choice between Peter Dutton and Anthony Albanese , " he says . Labor strategists say this is not just about what Albanese has delivered during this term , but about the " forward offer " of policies for the next three years . <p> In this assessment , from those closest to Albanese , the prime minister is just getting started in winning voters with new policy measures and attacking Dutton on Coalition vulnerabilities , such as its nuclear energy plan . <p> Advertisement <p> But Albanese has been subject to relentless attacks from left and right while trying to hold the middle ground on the Middle East . Greens leader Adam Bandt accused him of complicity in genocide over the war in Gaza , while Dutton accused him of deserting Israel and being weak on antisemitism . The conservative media picked up on the claim and rammed it home . <p> When arsonists committed what police called a " likely act of terrorism " at the Adass Israel synagogue in Melbourne in early December , Albanese condemned the antisemitism in a statement and on radio . But he was scheduled to fly to Perth and did not divert the aircraft to Melbourne , which meant he took several days to visit the destruction and stand with the Jewish community . <p> The symbolic show of support seemed too slow , even if the actual support was strong . Albanese gave no quarter to protesters who called antisemitic chants , and he made sure that laws were passed to ban the " doxxing " used to reveal personal details of Jewish Australians . He arranged more funding to protect synagogues and schools . <p> This was not enough , however , when the government was infuriating Israel by voting at the United Nations for a ceasefire in Gaza in a motion that did not condemn Hamas , listed by Australian authorities as a terrorist group . <p> " I do n't subscribe to the view that he has been weak on antisemitism , " says Strangio . " To me , this is an idea prosecuted by dogmatic elements -- especially the Murdoch media -- and does n't allow for the diabolical challenge it has been for the government to strike a position that does n't aggravate the polarisation of community opinion but maintains some degree of social cohesion . " <p> Australians , meanwhile , felt their household incomes shrinking in real terms . Although wages moved ahead of inflation in recent quarters , they remain down in real terms since the election . With the Reserve Bank seeking to reduce inflation , the government could not risk spending more money to help voters . The pressure on households generated pain in the polls . <p> Advertisement <p> Voters are clearly sceptical about Albanese . Thirty-one per cent said in early December that he was doing a good job , but 57 per cent said he was doing a poor job . His net rating in the Resolve Political Monitor , minus 26 per cent , was four times worse in December than it had been in February . <p> The verdict is more savage from some of his own Labor colleagues . " He 's tough on the weak issues and weak on the tough issues , " says one caucus member . The complaint is that Albanese can take a strong line on something that is secondary to most Australians -- like the release of the last of the Bali Nine -- but struggle on the problems that will decide the election . Most of all , the cost of living . <p> Cautious in choosing his battles before the election , Albanese risks leaving voters with the sense that he does not know what to fight for . <p> " I like Anthony Albanese , and I regard him as a friend , but I find his government underwhelming , " says independent MP Andrew Wilkie . " And that would be the view of many of my constituents . It is fair to add that politics in general has become underwhelming . I 'm not suggesting for a moment that Peter Dutton is any better . " <p> Albanese tried through the year to outline practical policies -- including a rush in December to pass dozens of laws through parliament . This included the Help to Buy scheme to offer $5.6 billion in federal equity for young people buying their first homes , as well as the Build to Rent scheme to attract investment into new homes . <p> Also in December came the $1 billion early education fund for childcare and the " three-day guarantee " to make it easier for new parents to receive childcare subsidies . The Coalition opposes the move , which could help Albanese in a cost-of-living battle . <p> Advertisement <p> Loading <p> Albanese can point to other measures that help with costs . The changes to student loans will help young Australians by reducing their debts by $3 billion , with the promise of more change if the government holds power at the election . Again , the Coalition opposes the move . <p> This leaves some observers wanting a bolder vision . Saul Eslake , an independent economist , says Australia needs ambitious reform to lift living standards over the long term . Dutton has no significant economic policy , other than his nuclear plan , and Albanese is not revealing anything too risky . <p> " I sort of despair , really , that the government has shown no inclination to argue for an ambitious second-term reform agenda , " says Eslake . " And it 's almost too late now . Albanese seems not to have the vision or the rhetorical capacity to do this stuff . " Leaders are not only judged on what they do , but what they choose not to do . <p> A shadow has fallen over Anthony Albanese 's prime ministership in 2024 . Credit : Alex Ellinghausen <p> Will the prime minister lift his fortunes after a difficult year ? Watch for some policy moves early in 2025 to convince voters to stick with him rather than take a risk with Dutton . The Labor strategy seeks to copy the approach taken at the last election : to kick with the wind in the final quarter . <p> One of the prime minister 's allies says the critics of today forget the mistakes of the critics from three years ago , when Albanese was not given much credit for lining up a victory that swept Labor into power . " On the big calls he was proven right , " he says . This year has been no triumph for Albanese . But the contest is not over .
