<p> Every year , visitors from across the country descend onto Goolwa Beach , an hour 's drive from Adelaide , to soak up the sun and enjoy the beach . But irresponsible revellers -- including those without 4WD capabilities -- put beachgoers at risk , damage delicate dunes and leave behind piles of rubbish prompting calls for major change . <p> The shocking scene comes just days after the Department for Infrastructure and Transport , South Australian Police and Alexandrina Council told Yahoo News Australia that bad behaviour would be penalised . <p> Now , Mayor Keith Parks has hit out at revellers . " These are the things that will see beaches close to vehicles at all times , and that 's the last thing on earth that we want , " he said . <p> Sand dunes at Goolwa Beach will take years to recover after 4WD 's gained access . Source : Coorong imaging <p> According to 9News , the incident was reported to police who said the driver , a 26-year-old Victorian man , will be fined for failing to have proper control of his vehicle . Drivers ignoring road rules by speeding face hefty $5,000 fines as well as risk losing demerit points . <h> Residents call for permit system to control 4WD beach crowds <p> Local resident Lindy Downing visits the beach daily to collect rubbish left by revellers with her dog Tilly . She told Yahoo News Australia she avoids her favourite beach during the summer holidays due to the crowds and danger posed by 4WDs . She believes that controlling the beach is " hard " . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> " Eventually they 'll probably close it , " she said . " They 've got to limit the number of vehicles . " <p> Lindy , who collects rubbish from the beach and reports incidents to authorities , fears for the environment and believes some kind of licence or permit system is required . " Drivers need to register , and that might make people think twice about what they do , " she said . <p> " Vehicles are only meant to do 40kph , but they do n't . It 's actually really annoying , " she said . " I 'll be down on my hands and knees picking up rubbish , and you just do n't hear them whooshing past . It 's just so dangerous . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Following the busy period , Lindy adds : " I 'll be picking up rubbish or ages . " <p> Regarding the litter , a SA Water spokesperson told Yahoo : " We encourage people visiting the beach to take their rubbish with them when they leave , to keep the area clean and enjoyable for everyone . " <p> Litter in the sand dunes at Goolwa Beach . Source : Coorong imaging <h> Camping banned at South Australian beaches from 2025 <p> Fellow residents fear that Goolwa Beach will end up closed or a " very expensive permit " will be required to access it in a vehicle following the Boxing Day incident . <p> Earlier this month , it was announced that camping will be banned at a popular holiday destination along in the new year , with authorities looking to " protect the sensitive environment " by " stopping mass congregation of vehicles " on the sand . <p> The Department for Environment said the increased popularity of off-road 4WD vehicles has seen more of them being driven on SA 's beaches in recent years , creating problems for local ecosystems . Social media sharing of " secret spots " , it added , has also resulted in " many places becoming so popular that the environment can not sustain the level of use " . <p> Overnight camping will be banned at this popular South Australian beach in the new year , as the government moves to preserve the fragile environment . Source : SA Government <p> A tourist floating on the surface of crystal clear water in the Maldives remained unfazed as nurse sharks swam beneath her , recent footage shows.Footage by Rizkhan Mohamed of Shadow Palm Tours shows the tourist relaxing in the sea , as a number of nurse sharks move underneath her.The sharks are harmless to humans " for the most part " , according to National Geographic.Shadow Palm Tours often share both underwater as well as drone footage shot off the coast of the Maldives to its Instagram page . Credit : shadowpalmmaldives via Storyful <p> A bushfire grew to more than 74,000 hectares ( 182,857 acres ) by Friday , December 27 , burning through swathes of Grampians National Park in Victoria , Australia.Footage filmed on December 26 by Trish Martin Music shows the fire burning from a nearby road.On Friday , all emergency warnings had been downgraded to a " watch and act " for the Grampians.There were no reports of deaths or destroyed structures . Credit : Trish Martin Music via Storyful <p> Israeli troops raided and torched the Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza on Friday forcing staff and patients , some of whom had to be unhooked from oxygen , to move to other locations , the Gaza health ministry said . Israeli troops stormed one of the last hospitals operating in the northernmost part of Gaza on Friday , forcing many of the staff and patients out of the facility , the territory 's health ministry said.The Kamal Adwan Hospital has been hit multiple times over the past three months by <p> The director of one of the last functioning hospitals in northern Gaza was arrested in a raid the Israeli military said was targeting a Hamas command centre . The Hamas-run Palestinian health ministry said Dr Hussam Abu Safiya , director of Kamal Adwan Hospital , was held by Israeli forces on Friday along with dozens of other staff and taken to an interrogation centre . Sky News has spoken to patients who say they were forced outside and told to strip in winter weather after troops stormed the hospital .
