<h> Save articles for later <p> Add articles to your saved list and come back to them any time . <p> At the beginning of the year , we looked to our correspondents for tips of what to expect around the world in 2024 . Among them was hope for change for millions of people who were to vote in elections in 50 countries . <p> At least in the United States , that change turned out to be more of the same . Among the surprises , however , there was the end of a dynasty in Syria and the beginning of another in Indonesia . Here are some of the biggest stories of the past 12 months : <h> Europe <p> If 1992 was the late Queen Elizabeth II 's annus horribilis , then it 's hard to know how she 'd have ranked this year for Britain 's royal family . <p> King Charles , Princess Catherine and Princess Charlotte at the Trooping of the Colours in June.Credit : Getty Images <p> The statement was made shortly after it was revealed his daughter-in-law , Catherine , Princess of Wales , was expected to be in hospital for 10 to 14 days after undergoing abdominal surgery . <p> Advertisement <p> Things would snowball from there . Weeks later , the King would announce he had been diagnosed with cancer . Catherine 's recovery was kept under wraps until the rumour mill went into overdrive . A family photo was released , and it was a disaster . Even more questions were asked . Suddenly came an announcement : she , too , had cancer . <p> Neither have been given the all-clear but have returned to light duties . Charles joined with Queen Camilla for a royal visit to Australia . But his relationships with son Harry and brother Andrew have continued to plague him . <p> Australian-born Queen Mary and King Frederik of Denmark.Credit : Steen Evald <p> Our own Princess Mary , was crowned Queen of Denmark in January after her mother-in-law , Margrethe , stepped down to make way for her son , Frederik . Two decades on from Mary 's fairytale wedding , she waved to the crowds in Copenhagen as the sovereign 's wife . Rumours have swirled about her marriage , too , and the Danish royals showed it ai n't just the Brits who have their problems . <p> But 2024 was the year of the election . In Britain , Labour was swept to power after 14 years of Conservative rule , with Keir Starmer moving into 10 Downing Street in a landslide victory . Within weeks , however , his popularity would start to tumble in a string of scandals and misjudgments . <p> Another blow for that cause was Austria 's far-right Freedom Party , as they celebrated an unprecedented election victory . Its leader , Herbert Kickl , aligned himself closely with Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban and his self-styled " illiberal democracy " . Kickl had also spoken of becoming Volkskanzler ( people 's chancellor ) , which for some Austrians carries echoes of the term used to describe Adolf Hitler in Nazi Germany . <p> Loading <p> War continues in Ukraine after almost three years . Where and when it ends , no one knows . Children are struggling with the turmoil . President Volodymyr Zelensky has laid out a plan for peace . It 's likely many will die before that happens . <p> Russia 's Vladimir Putin is scrambling to conquer as much territory as possible before those peace talks begin . Last month , Russia captured an area the size of London while suffering its highest casualty rates of the war . <p> But the rapprochement has not dimmed security concerns posed by China 's increasingly aggressive tactics in the Indo-Pacific , which included confrontations with Australian naval forces and repeated clashes with Filipino vessels in the South China Sea this year that heightened fears of sparking a full-blown conflict . <p> In the face of a drumbeat of negativity from economic analysts and investors , Chinese President Xi Jinping appeared to reverse course in the second half of the year and began pursuing stimulus measures aimed at pumping money and confidence into his beleaguered housing sector . <p> Members of the national federation of farmers , known as " Junnong " , and the Korean Confederation of Trade Unions , with effigies of South Korean President Yoon Suk Yeol ( right ) and his wife , Kim Keon-hee.Credit : AP <h> South-East Asia <p> After two failed attempts against Joko Widodo , Prabowo Subianto finally realised his decades-long dream of becoming president of Indonesia . Widodo was constitutionally barred from running for a third term , so when his sniffing around for ways to run again went nowhere , the president and Prabowo teamed up for some win-win . <p> Indonesia 's Prabowo Subianto ( right ) and his running mate , Gibran Rakabuming Raka , ( Joko Widodo 's son ) at a post-election party . TikTok helped the strongman dance his way to the presidential palace.Credit : AP <p> Prabowo , the former son-in-law of late autocrat Suharto , enlisted Widodo 's son , Gibran Rakabuming Raka , to be his vice presidential running mate . Widodo then turned his back on his own party and threw his considerable political and popular weight behind his former enemy . <p> Never mind his dodgy human rights track record as a military strongman , Prabowo won the February elections in a canter . After backroom deals with self-interested politicians and parties in the months leading up to October 's inauguration , the 73-year-old now sits atop a massive coalition , troubling democracy watchers . <p> Singapore changed prime ministers for the first time in 20 years.Credit : iStock <p> Singapore , too , underwent a rare change of boss . Lee Hsien Loong stepped down in May after 20 years as prime minister , handing the reins to his deputy , Lawrence Wong . Wong inherited a middle power punching way above its weight division , a stable and wealthy nation in a region of regular upheaval . He is an erudite statesman and seems eminently capable , but he has shown little interest in loosening the government 's tight grip on free expression . <p> Thailand 's leadership transition , meanwhile , was a bin fire . Srettha Thavisin was tossed out by order of the dubious court system , which many Thais and observers consider a big-time cog in the self-serving military and royalist establishment . Pita Limjaroenrat 's Move Forward Party won the most votes in the 2023 election but was blocked from forming government by an unelected senate . <p> Amid the chaos , Paetongtarn Shinawatra , the daughter of controversial and once-exiled former prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra , became prime minister . <p> Philippine Vice President Sara Duterte 's death threat was taken seriously , though she later tried to walk back the remarks.Credit : AP <p> The feud is unfolding amid investigations into Duterte 's alleged misuse of funds and her dad 's bloody " war on drugs " . It is not a great time for toxic politics in the Philippines , which is clashing almost weekly with China in the West Philippine Sea . <p> In Vietnam , which has its own claims to the South China Sea , To Lam inherited the job of Communist Party secretary-general after 80-year-old statesman Nguyen Phu Trong died in July . In his 12 years at the top ( not to mention nearly three decades in the Politburo ) , Trong significantly reduced poverty rates , strengthened ties with the United States and implemented a fierce anti-corruption drive dubbed the " blazing furnace " . As is often the case in South-East Asia , and Communist regimes more broadly , he also preferred his dissenters in jail . <p> Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Manet inspects an honour guard during a visit to Malaysia . The prime minister 's family retains control of many senior roles in the Cambodian government.Credit : AP <p> If anything , the intimidation of opposition and arrests of protesters have only increased . The most high-profile arrest was journalist Mech Dara , whose reporting touched on the businesses of Ly Yong Phat , a senator , tycoon and Hun Sen adviser , who was sanctioned by the US in September . Dara was bailed several weeks after his October arrest after a coerced public apology , a typical ploy of the Huns ' regime that they think demonstrates their beneficence . <p> Myanmar , a nation with so much economic potential , continued to suffer repeated wrecking by military men . Min Aung Hlaing , who ousted the democratically elected government of Aung San Suu Kyi in February 2021 , still holds onto power through force despite serious losses to myriad armed opposition groups . ASEAN , a wet lettuce leaf among regional blocs , has been unable to bring the general to heel . <p> Underscoring the complexity of this multi-front civil war , one of the worst atrocities came at the hands of a group fighting the junta , when the Arakan Army slaughtered hundreds of innocent Rohingya Muslims near the border of Bangladesh in August . <p> In recent weeks , however , two major armed rebel groups -- Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army and ally the Ta'ang National Liberation Army -- signalled they were ready for peace talks . <p> Holly Bowles and Bianca Jones died after a suspected mass drink poisoning . <h> South Asia <p> The biggest election ever staged delivered a shock result in India . Ahead of the national poll , concluded on June 1 , Prime Minister Narendra Modi was expected to romp home . But once the 642 million ballots were counted his Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP ) lost a swag of seats , he needed to rely on other parties to control parliament . Modi has dominated Indian politics for the past decade , but now faces a more uncertain era of coalition government . <p> Elsewhere on the subcontinent , 2024 was marked by political turmoil . <p> Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi 's BJP won power in 2014 . This year , he was expected to romp it in , but his party lost many seats , complicating his rule.Credit : AP <p> In Bangladesh , Sheikh Hasina , prime minister for 20 of the past 28 years , was driven out by a vast display of people power on the streets of the capital city , Dhaka . After she made a dramatic escape to neighbouring India on August 5 , her government was replaced by military-backed caretaker regime led by Muhammad Yunus , an 84-year-old Nobel Laureate , economist and social entrepreneur . Yunus has the difficult task of building consensus for much-needed reforms and staging a fair election . <p> There was political change in Sri Lanka as well when the little-known former Marxist , Anura Kumara Dissanayake , emerged the surprise winner in a presidential election held in September . The country continues to grapple with the aftermath of a debilitating financial crisis in 2022 . <p> In Pakistan , the incarceration of cricket great and former prime minister Imran Khan continues to roil politics and society . His party , Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf ( PTI ) , did surprisingly well in February elections and his supporters have since staged huge and sometime violent protests demanding his release . -- Matt Wade , former India correspondent <h> Middle East <p> The power dynamics in the Middle East were dramatically reshaped this year , with Israel on the ascendancy and its bitter rival , Iran , substantially weakened . Iran 's President Ebrahim Raisi died in a helicopter crash in May , and things only got worse from there for the hard-line rulers in Tehran . <p> Israel and Iran traded missile fire at several points throughout the year , setting off fears of an all-out regional war . Thanks to Israel 's Iron Dome system and support from Western nations , the Iranian strikes caused minimal damage , while Iran 's missile-production capability was crippled . <p> After the monumental intelligence failure of last year 's October 7 attacks , the Jewish state regrouped and achieved some significant strategic victories . The Israeli military assassinated the mastermind of the October 7 attacks , Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar , in Gaza and Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah in Beirut . After a year of tit-for-tat fighting on its border with Lebanon , Israel escalated the fight against Hezbollah . This began with the shock September pager and walkie-talkie attacks against the Iranian proxy group and culminated in a ground invasion and air strikes on Lebanon . It ended on favourable terms for Israel , with Lebanese civilians paying a heavy price for a conflict many did not want to be involved in . <p> Israeli bombardment and ground invasions have left vast areas of Gaza in ruins.Credit : Getty Images <p> Meanwhile , the devastating war in Gaza continues and there is still no clear vision for what will come when it is over . Almost 45,000 Palestinians have been killed since the beginning of the war and over 100 Israeli hostages still remain in Gaza . <h> North America <p> This year was meant to culminate in an election rematch between Joe Biden and Donald Trump . But after imploding on a debate stage in June , the United States ' oldest president was forced to withdraw his bid for a second term , setting in motion one of the most extraordinary political comebacks in history . <p> While Biden 's decision to pass the torch to Vice President Kamala Harris upended the trajectory of the 2024 campaign and sparked fresh enthusiasm among voters , it was not enough to dent the anger millions of Americans felt over soaring cost-of-living pressures or immigration . <p> In a victory so resounding even some Republicans were shocked , Trump not only won all seven battleground states , he also narrowly secured the popular vote and helped Republicans take control of both the House of Representatives and the Senate . <p> It was a remarkable turnaround for a former president who began the year facing 91 charges and four criminal trials : one in Washington for trying to subvert the 2020 election ; one in Georgia for election interference in that state ; another in Florida for mishandling classified documents ; and one in New York for falsifying business records to cover up a sex scandal with a porn star . <p> In the end , only the New York " hush money " trial would eventuate , resulting in Trump becoming the first convicted felon to run for the White House . A US Supreme Court decision to grant presidents substantial immunity for acts conducted in office helped him thwart all the other trials . <p> Trump 's ascendancy was also fuelled by an attempted assassination at a rally in Pennsylvania -- an event that shocked the world , reignited the debate over political violence , and created one of the most iconic images in political history . <p> Assassination attempt : A defiant Trump raises a fist to the crowd after his right ear was nicked by a sniper 's bullet in July.Credit : AP <p> Two months later came another assassination plot -- this time by a lone gunman hiding in the bushes of his golfing resort in West Palm Beach , Florida . <p> In other North America news , environmental scientist Claudia Sheinbaum was elected Mexico 's first female president ; the war in Gaza sparked student uprisings at elite universities across the US ; and Taylor Swift continued her global dominance , concluding her 149-show Eras Tour in Canada after becoming the most-awarded artist in VMA history . -- Farrah Tomazin , North America correspondent <p> Take the new $5.6 billion port President Xi Jinping -- who arrived pushing for an " orderly multipolar world " -- inaugurated in Chancay , north of Lima . The intended continental logistics hub creates a direct route between Asia and South America across the Pacific Ocean . Apart from allowing Beijing to look beyond Australia and Asia for imports such as iron ore , wine and soybeans , the port could also , says the US , be used as a foothold by Chinese military ships in the Americas . China 's influence in the region could also extend to ground stations for Chinese satellites . <p> In Brazil , former president Jair Bolsonaro was indicted along with 36 others in a failed coup to reverse the last election and overthrow the government of President Luis Inacio Lula da Silva in a US Capitol-inspired takeover of Congress in 2022 . He denies the charges , which add to his long list of legal woes . Lula , 79 , had emergency brain surgery to relieve bleeding but was back to work in a few days . <p> In Argentina , the election of right-wing Trump-like disruptor and cloned-dog owner President Javier Milei provided some relief to the US , after Milei declared a preference for traditional Western alliances to the alternative BRICS -- the Brazil , Russia , India , China and South Africa group that has evolved to admit myriad other countries , and hopes to launch an alternative trade currency to the US dollar . <p> Argentinian President Javier Milei at home with his cloned mastiff puppies.Credit : Marcelo Dubini/Caras via The New York Times <p> In Venezuela , new elections returned President Nicolas Maduro to power , but no one believed the results , which the opposition said were stolen and the UN human rights watchdog is investigating . The crisis-torn country was also in the headlines owing to campaign-mode Trump blaming " Venezuelan gangs " for rampant crime in the US . In December , prominent human rights lawyer Claudio Grossman quit the International Criminal Court in The Hague over what he said was its failure to prosecute members of Maduro 's government for crimes against humanity . <p> In early December , Argentina , Brazil , Uruguay , Paraguay and Bolivia , under the bloc Mercosur , signed a blockbuster free trade deal with the European Union . If ratified , it will create one of the world 's largest free trade zones , covering a market of 780 million people . But in France , the Netherlands and other countries with big dairy and beef industries , critics say it will create unfair competition . -- Lia Timson , Deputy World Editor <h> Oceania <p> In New Zealand , the year started with a large " unity meeting " convened by Maori King Tuheitia to discuss action against changes proposed by the new coalition government of Prime Minister Chris Luxon , including the watering down of policies previously designed to elevate Maori language and recognition . Tuheitia said the Treaty of Waitangi was not open for reinterpretation . <p> Tuheitia died in August , with King Charles leading the tributes , saying " a mighty tree has fallen " . His daughter , 27-year-old Nga Wai Hono i te Po Paki , was chosen by a council of 12 male elders to succeed him , over her two older brothers , although the crown is not automatically inherited . <p> And a devastating earthquake struck Vanuatu in later December , causing many deaths , hundreds of injuries and crippling the nation 's electricity , water and communications systems . -- Lia Timson , Deputy World Editor <p> Prime ministers Anthony Albanese and James Marape take a selfie after the Anzac Day dawn service at the Isurava memorial site on the Kokoda Track in PNG.Credit : Dominic Lorrimer
