<h> Church turning blind eye on moral responsibility <h> Save articles for later <p> Add articles to your saved list and come back to them any time . <p> For all the talk , policies and audits regarding the principles of safeguarding vulnerable people ( " Legals meet after church abuse ruling " , December 31 ) , in arguing that it has no vicarious liability over predatory priests because they have " non-employment-based roles " it seems that the Catholic Church continues to duck and sidestep its responsibility to victims of clerical abuse . While lawmakers are now acting to remedy this situation , which leaves survivors of abuse " with no legal recourse to pursue compensation remedies " , the question must be asked : does the church , which sets itself up as the gatekeeper of morality , not have moral responsibility for the abuse perpetrated by its priests ? Kerrie Wehbe , Blacktown <p> The High Court of Australia Credit : Alex Ellinghausen <p> If the High Court has determined a priest in a Catholic diocese can not legally be considered an employee of the church , I trust the ATO will now review all the past tax exemptions granted on the understanding that they were in fact so . This would include the generous Fringe Benefit Tax exemption , which requires such an employment relationship to be claimed ; it is applicable to ministers of all religious institutions , not just Catholics . I suggest any funds clawed back by the government after these audits might then be placed in a trust fund to provide compensation to victims of clergy abuse . Paul McShane , Burradoo <p> One has to wonder if the Catholic Church will ever take full responsibility for the historic shameful acts that some of its clergy perpetrated against many of its most vulnerable members . Knowing what was happening , the church shifted offenders from parish to parish , and now they are shifting financial responsibility for the crimes perpetrated . If the Catholic Church were a business group in the community , it would have been deregistered long ago . Jan Boyd , Sylvania <p> The High Court may not see priests as being employees but the Vatican certainly does . The code of canon law is concise in relation to clergy . In Book 11 , titled The People of God , Title 111 , Chapter 111 Canon 286 , " Clerics are prohibited from conducting business or trade personally or through others for their own advantage or that of others except with the permission of legitimate ecclesial authority " -- in other words , permission from the priest 's bishop . I think the court should look at how the church sees its priests and their work within the institution . Neil Purcell , Hermit Park ( Qld ) <p> It would seem the Catholic Church has still not learnt the lessons from the Royal Commission into Institutional Sexual Abuse . Rather than accept the decision of the lower courts , it fought a just claim for compensation all the way to the High Court , once again making it clear that the church is more interested in exploiting legal loopholes than in accepting moral responsibility . As Jesus said of the Pharisees , they strain out gnats while swallowing camels . And then it wonders why the claim to moral authority for the Catholic Church is largely ignored . Neil Ormerod , Kingsgrove <h> Ca n't see the forest <p> Advertisement <p> I lived for 50 years in Eastwood with a clear view of Sydney Harbour Bridge ( " Home owner loses court row over view " , December 31 ) . Each year we could enjoy the NYE fireworks from our living room . Each year the view became less and less of fireworks and more and more of trees , until no fireworks at all . So what ? Judy Nicholas , Kambah ( ACT ) <p> But what do you do if you ca n't see them from home ? Credit : Getty <p> In many countries in Africa , particularly Ethiopia , whole families and children are starving ; Russia continues to attack Ukraine ; Israel has all but extinguished life and property in Gaza . Meanwhile in Australia , a wealthy man , presumably with a full stomach and pantry , complains about his neighbour 's trees blocking his precious view . Is there a better demonstration of what it means to have a first-world problem ? Frederick Jansohn , Rose Bay <p> From time to time , we are reassured that a sense of entitlement remains alive and well in certain quarters of our community . At the same time as cash resources are being carefully managed by families across the city to pay inflated motor vehicle or household insurance premiums , the former chairman of an insurance company and other directorships is waging war with a neighbour whose growing palms are predicted to obstruct views ( from the living area and main bedroom ) of the Harbour Bridge and Opera House . Thankfully , we learn that Woollahra Council has the good grace to keep its fig trees well-trimmed so that no views are impeded by those trees . One can imagine how distressing it must be not to have uninterrupted views of the NYE fireworks , not to mention the ongoing anxiety that an " expansive view " is not possible from all rooms in one 's property . Ross Butler , Rodd Point <p> Woollahra council maintains a pruning height of the fig trees in New Beach Road so some property owners ' view remains . The beauty , cooling and air cleansing factors of these magnificent trees have been dismissed . The cost of this ridiculous exercise would be substantial . Climate be damned . Jill Stephenson , Woolwich <h> Money well spent <p> This government ought to take note ( " Key housing plan gets just one DA " , December 31 ) . Why on earth would developers want to buy up heritage homes for $3 million to $5 million near Dulwich Hill station , for example ? By the time they pay , demolish , and build , where is the profit margin ? It makes no economic sense to demolish quality real estate . The government should be targeting run-down areas where developers can buy cheap and add value , for themselves and for the overall suburban landscape . It 's simple economics , better planning , and would maintain character while adding to housing . But the YIMBYs have brainwashed them into an obsession with train stations and executing a generational and class war . Let the market rule rather than the politics , says this Labor member . James Manche , Dulwich Hill <p> Advertisement <h> Do unto others <p> The Victorian Labor Party 's disgraceful attempt to smear Peter Dutton 's reputation is reprehensible indeed ( " Albanese orders take down of Labor attack ad mocking Dutton 's marriage " , smh.com.au , December 30 ) . All credit to Anthony Albanese for his demand that the Victorians remove the offensive post as soon as he became aware of it . However , this instance did remind me of the asylum-seeking Murugappan family who , under Dutton 's watch as home affairs minister , suffered enormously . He callously referred to their two Australian-born children as " anchor babies " and almost succeeded in having them deported . A monster Peter Dutton may not be , but hard-hearted he certainly is . Donna Wiemann , Balmain <h> No playing games <p> Women 's rights have been quashed since the Taliban retook Afghanistan during August 2021 . Credit : AP <p> The government in Afghanistan has now banned windows overlooking " places usually used by women " , to prevent " obscene acts " . So women ca n't show their skin or hair in public ; they ca n't work , learn to read , be educated , talk in public , vote or even sing . All for the crime of being female . Governments and sporting bodies forced a change to apartheid in South Africa . Well , now 's the time . Cricket Australia , the members of the women 's and men 's teams , and the federal and state governments should be working together to stop the Taliban 's barbarism . Afghanistan should not be playing sport in our country . Anne Cooper , Undercliffe <h> Cats must be kept under control <p> Cats should be confined to a yard or home ( " Claw and order in cat-eat-coyote world " , December 31 ) . They do roam and kill many native birds and animals . I live beside the bush and I often see a cat emerge or see one dash back into the bush . There are health issues , as they too foul pavements and gardens . I fear for anyone if they approach a feral cat as they may get bitten , which can result in serious infection . De-sexing and releasing cats may reduce breeding , but it takes too long to reduce the feral cat population so the killing continues . When choosing a pet , owners must choose one that is suitable for their living environment . If dog owners have to restrain and confine their animal , I see no reason why cat owners ca n't do the same . Laws must be enforceable and achieve the goal for which they are enacted . That way people can enjoy a pet and the environment will be safer . Augusta Monro , Dural <p> At what point did Australians start prioritising pets over native species ? We are so disengaged from our own magnificent native flora and fauna that many people are not only happy to ignore the carnage but embrace the nonsense around TNR ( trap neuter release ) , with this being supported by " animal justice warriors " . Graphic campaigns to alert cat ( and dog ) owners to the damage their beasties inflict across our landscapes is long overdue , along with government legislation to enforce restrictions . Dorin Suciu , Eleebana <p> Those who prioritise the welfare of feral cats over native species defy belief . Their views should have no place in devising strategies to control cat and other feral animal numbers . John Cotterill , Kingsford <p> I live in the Blue Mountains , a city within a National Park with wildlife on our doorstep . It is important that cats are contained as they kill so many native animals . It is not the cats ' fault but we have introduced them to this land and must take responsibility . Cats can be managed humanely , otherwise we are risking further extinctions of wildlife that exist nowhere else in the world . Surely the Animal Justice Party does not want this outcome ? Rhyan Andrews , Faulconbridge <p> With the number of feral cats increasing and being responsible for the deaths of 1.5 billion native mammals , birds , reptiles and frogs annually , the parliamentary inquiry into the management of cat populations will need to upset some cat lovers if our native animal population is to have any chance of survival . As one of a number of volunteers who propagate and plant native plants at North Head to provide an environment for animals such as the pygmy possums , antechinuses and bandicoots , we may well find that our efforts are in vain . Peter Nash , Fairlight <p> I 'm inclined to agree that cats should be exterminated . My council has its work cut out managing foxes . At the least , cat owners should face the same penalties as dog owners if their pet is roaming the streets . Jenny Greenwood , Hunters Hill <p> Advertisement <h> Sweet sounds of home <p> Your correspondent 's ( Letters , December 31 ) cicada recordings which she sends to her family overseas reminded me of my father , who in the 1970s sent ( posted ) to me in London a tape recording he 'd made in our Sydney backyard . The sounds of magpies , butcherbirds , peewees , kookaburras and more made me realise where I belonged . Jane Gye , Cowan <p> Your correspondent 's eloquent description of the Australian bush reminded me of time spent at the long-gone , one-teacher Turlinjah Public School down the coast . Learning and reciting Australian bush poetry was a welcome respite from the mundane subjects , for both the 27 pupils and the teacher . The monthly school magazine provided a treasure trove of gems like Henry Kendall 's " Bellbirds " and Dorothea McKellar 's " My Country " . These and other bush poetry provided an insight to all us " bush country kids " . Howard Corfield , Tarrawanna <p> Yes -- but where are the bogongs ? Catherine Turner , Cremorne <p> The missing moth - look out for bogongs <p> Advertisement <h> Travel overrides crunch <p> I am aware there are people struggling with the cost of living at the moment . I witness this each week at an Anglicare food bank ( " Greens lose youth vote over living cost " , December 31 ) . However , during the festive season I have received many Christmas cards by snail mail and email . An ongoing theme of the correspondence is the volume of overseas travel to countries near and far being enjoyed . Not only by my Baby Boomer friends and family but by their children and grandchildren . Overseas travel is at an all-time high by Australians , which is an indication that the economy is not as dire as many would have us believe . Robyn Lewis , Raglan <h> CF is real and needs help <p> It 's reassuring to see a letter by a chronic fatigue sufferer ( Letters , December 31 ) being published and the condition acknowledged . This often misunderstood condition has so many different aspects and convolutions that treating it is challenging . With an open mind , perhaps we can avoid dumping these sufferers in the too-hard basket and treating them with antidepressants , which simply suppresses symptoms . Integrative or root-cause GPs might have a more comprehensive approach . The Canadian Consensus Document on chronic fatigue needs to be read by all those involved . Ashley Berry , Toolijooa
