<p> " termid " : 29 , " name " : " South Africa " , " slug " : " south-africa " , " termgroup " : 0 , ... Maverick is an independent online news publication and weekly print newspaper in South Africa. rnrnIt is known for breaking some of the defining stories of South Africa in the past decade , including the Marikana Massacre , in which the South African Police Service killed 34 miners in August 2012. rnrnIt also investigated the Gupta Leaks , which won the 2019 Global Shining Light Award. rnrnThat investigation was credited with exposing the Indian-born Gupta family and former President Jacob Zuma for their role in the systemic political corruption referred to as state capture. rnrnIn 2018 , co-founder and editor-in-chief Branislav u2018Brankou2019 Brkic was awarded the countryu2019s prestigious Nat Nakasa Award , recognised for initiating the investigative collaboration after receiving the hard drive that included the email tranche. rnrnIn 2021 , co-founder and CEO Styli Charalambous also received the award. rnrnDaily Maverick covers the latest political and news developments in South Africa with breaking news updates , analysis , opinions and more . " , " parent " : 0 , " count " : 47369 , " filter " : " raw ... Maverick " , " slug " : " business-maverick " , " termgr ... Citizen " , " slug " : " maverick-citizen " , " termgrou ... Judged , disgraced and now recycled -- Hlophe 's return to the main parliamentary stage <p> Former president Jacob Zuma 's choice of John Hlophe as the uMkhonto Wesizwe ( MK ) party 's chief whip sends a clear signal , as Hlophe 's controversial views on the legal system and land ownership align closely with MK 's manifesto , raising concerns about his potential role in the Judicial Service Commission and the legitimacy of the judge selection process . <p> There can be no doubt of the signal that the uMkhonto Wesizwe ( MK ) leader , former president Jacob Zuma , is sending with the choice of John Hlophe as the party 's chief whip . <p> As the Sunday Times reported at the weekend , Hlophe told an audience how he sees the law : " I call it a legal ' shitstem ' which was introduced and everything else changed ; the result is that the laws in our courts , which we have mastered by the way ... it was imposed upon us and forced down our throats . " <p> Of course , he was talking about the system of law that was first imposed by colonialism and then apartheid , but clearly he does not have any faith in the current system either . <p> He also said that land should not be controlled by individuals or corporations but by traditional leaders . <p> This is almost exactly the philosophy of MK 's manifesto , which talks about removing the Constitution altogether and creating a second house of Parliament which would see traditional leaders making the laws for South Africa . <p> It is worth mentioning that giving traditional leaders more control over more land is not necessarily a popular position . One party that contested the elections on precisely this point , the SA Royal Kingdoms Organisation , received just 9,893 votes . <p> And the EFF , which has always campaigned not just for the expropriation of land , but also for it to be nationalised , has never won more than 12% of the vote . This suggests there is still strong support for the issue of title -- for individuals to be able to own and sell land , and to leave it to their children . <p> While Hlophe has sometimes been cast as fighting for the majority in South Africa , or as a symbol of the fight against racism , he has no record of ever being progressive . <p> It was he who ruled in the Satawu case that a union can be held financially responsible for damage caused during a protest that it organised . <p> The application was brought by the DA-controlled City of Cape Town and was upheld by the Constitutional Court . This gave councils a big weapon to use against unions in future demonstrations . <p> In addition , Hlophe has always appeared to support the people he claims to be fighting for . <p> In 2020 , it emerged that he had regularly appointed the same group of people as acting judges and that most of them were ( according to government designations ) white males . In at least one case , he appointed no black people . <p> The MK party is likely to nominate Hlophe to be its representative on the Judicial Service Commission ( JSC ) , which would mean he plays a role in interviewing and selecting judges . <p> As the Sunday Times legal journalist Franny Rabkin has explained , there is no legal reason why he can not belong to the JSC ( and , of course , despite his impeachment as a judge , nothing is stopping him from being an MP ) . <h> Unfinished business <p> However , it would mean that the first person to be impeached as a judge in democratic South Africa was now playing a role in selecting judges . This would surely damage the legitimacy of the JSC and of the entire process of appointing judges . <p> Hlophe might well feel he has unfinished business with the JSC . <p> In 2009 , after the Constitutional Court lodged its complaint against him , he faced a gruelling late-night JSC interview for a position on the apex court . <p> At the time , there was intense speculation that Zuma wanted to appoint him Chief Justice ( he was nominated for the position by a group called " Justice for Hlophe " that refused to answer the simple question : How many members do you have ? ) . <p> There was also speculation about why Hlophe had approached two judges hearing cases about Zuma in 2008 and asked them to rule in Zuma 's favour , and whether he had an agreement with Zuma that would see him being repaid with the position of Chief Justice . <p> In the end , the ANC majority on the JSC ignored Hlophe and Zuma nominated Judge Mogoeng Mogoeng as Chief Justice . <p> Hlophe 's appointment to Parliament and to this position may well reignite questions about whether he had a political motive when making some of his decisions . <p> In particular , there may be questions about one of Hlophe 's last rulings . <p> In 2021 , he acquitted former state security Minister Bongani Bongo on a charge of trying to bribe Parliament 's evidence leader at the time , Ntuthuzelo Vanara . In his judgment , he claimed this was because no amount was specified for the bribe Bongo allegedly offered Vanara . <p> This ruling arrived amidst a debate in the ANC about when to impose the " step aside " rule and allowed Bongo and others to argue they were being treated unfairly by the party . <p> While Hlophe has been the subject of intense reporting and speculation over the years , he has not spoken in public very often because , as a judge , it was not correct for him to participate in public debates . <p> As Daily Maverick 's Marianne Thamm has reported , another judge , Mushtaq Parker , has said under oath that he was assaulted by Hlophe . <p> Hlophe was also quoted as saying , back in 2005 , that he had given a particular case to a particular judge because he " would fuck it up " . <p> Also during that period , he was accused of telling someone that he was a " piece of white shit " . <h> Setting the tone <p> Now , people will have an opportunity to see him speaking in public more often and playing a role on the very public stage that is Parliament . <p> For some , this may well be in keeping with the MK party 's public attitude . <p> Its public statements regularly insult the ANC in general and President Cyril Ramaphosa in particular . Its radio interviews often start with an MK spokesperson referring to the ANC as " thieves " . <p> Hlophe will be key to the strategy of the MK caucus . <p> He could display dignity in the National Assembly , or he could continue with the party 's current public posture -- and the other 57 MPs will follow his lead . <p> At a time when parties representing 70% of the vote are in the coalition government , a party that appears to be an effective and dignified opposition could well benefit at the next general election in 2029 . <p> It is still not clear why MK decided to boycott the first sitting of the National Assembly while attending the National Council of Provinces and the provincial legislatures . <p> There has been speculation that MK , Zuma , or the structures that make these decisions , were simply not ready to confirm who their MPs would be . <p> At the same time , it is worth pointing out how different the roles of judge and MP are . <p> A judge 's orders are followed to the letter -- by applicants , respondents , clerks , lawyers and the public . <p> An MP has to debate and persuade and , as chief whip , Hlophe will have to persuade MK MPs to follow his instructions , often in the hurly-burly of Parliament . <p> The last person to have made a shift like this , former Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane , has yet to make a major impact as an EFF MP ( her husband , David Skosana , is an MK MP , and thus one of the people who will be led by Hlophe ) . <p> What is clear is that Hlophe has been at the centre of many intense storms over the years . Several of them have led to fervid , sometimes difficult , debates about law and race . <h> Comments <p> " termid " : 387188 , " name " : " Maverick News " , " slug " : " maverick-news " , " termgroup " : 0 , " ... Africa " , " slug " : " south-africa " , " termgroup " : 0 , ... Maverick is an independent online news publication and weekly print newspaper in South Africa. rnrnIt is known for breaking some of the defining stories of South Africa in the past decade , including the Marikana Massacre , in which the South African Police Service killed 34 miners in August 2012. rnrnIt also investigated the Gupta Leaks , which won the 2019 Global Shining Light Award. rnrnThat investigation was credited with exposing the Indian-born Gupta family and former President Jacob Zuma for their role in the systemic political corruption referred to as state capture. rnrnIn 2018 , co-founder and editor-in-chief Branislav u2018Brankou2019 Brkic was awarded the countryu2019s prestigious Nat Nakasa Award , recognised for initiating the investigative collaboration after receiving the hard drive that included the email tranche. rnrnIn 2021 , co-founder and CEO Styli Charalambous also received the award. rnrnDaily Maverick covers the latest political and news developments in South Africa with breaking news updates , analysis , opinions and more . " , " parent " : 0 , " count " : 47369 , " filter " : " raw ... In a letter to Democratic Alliance ( DA ) leader John Steenhuisen dated 22 June 2024 , African National Congress ( ANC ) Secretary-General Fikile Mbalula proposed that the DA take six Cabinet minister and seven deputy minister positions in the government of national unity ( GNU ) . <p> The offer marked a critical step in finalising the GNU , which seeks to unite various political parties under a single government framework following the recent general elections , in which the ANC lost its national majority for the first time . <p> Mbalula emphasised the ANC 's commitment to forming a GNU based on " genuine inclusiveness " and " advancing the national interest " in line with the principles outlined in the Statement of Intent signed by the involved parties . <p> He said the offer of six ministerial positions was based on " a fair and reasonable manner of determining the number of positions in Cabinet that each party would be appointed " in line with clause 16 of the Statement of Intent . <p> The ANC wants to move away from the DA 's initial proposal to allocate Cabinet positions strictly based on the proportionality of seats each party has within the GNU , suggesting that such an approach would limit accountability to the National Assembly . <p> Instead , the ANC suggests Cabinet representation should reflect the electoral mandate of each party , aligning with their share of seats in the whole National Assembly . The ANC has not responded to requests to comment on its proposals . <p> Mbalula 's letter to Steenhuisen said that minister and deputy minister positions for the ANC , IFP and smaller parties would be determined following further consultations . <p> The ANC also proposes integrating positions within the National Council of Provinces as part of the GNU cooperation , reflecting the ANC 's majority in this body . <h> DA 's response and demands <p> In response , DA Federal Council chairperson Helen Zille outlined the party 's conditions for joining the GNU in a letter dated 23 June 2024 . Zille emphasised that the DA 's decision to join the GNU hinged on its ability to effect substantial change and not merely occupy positions of power . <p> Zille said the DA 's proposed distribution of Cabinet seats was a clear and fair way to implement clause 16 of the Statement of Intent . <p> " It is obvious that the distribution of positions in the Cabinet can only start with a consideration of the relative electoral size of the parties participating in government . Governments , by definition , are made up of parties participating in government . They are not made up of parties in opposition -- that is what Parliament is for , " she said . <p> The DA 's demands include : <p> The position of deputy president or , alternatively , a minister in the Presidency with significant policy and budgetary oversight roles , and a deputy minister of finance . <p> Representation across all Cabinet clusters , with preferred portfolios in economic , social , governance , justice , and international sectors specified . Zille noted 11 " preferred " portfolios across the various clusters . <p> Appointment of deputy ministers in corresponding departments where they have ministers , with the exception of a sole deputy minister role in finance . <p> Influence over the selection of directors general ( DGs ) in their departments , ensuring appointments align with DA 's governance principles . <p> A review of all tenders issued since the election announcement in departments reporting to DA ministers . <p> Establishment of a technical " clearing house " for resolving policy disputes within the GNU , aiming for consensus or , if necessary , resolution by the President and DA leader Steenhuisen . <p> Zille said the DA would also require that the DGs in departments reporting to DA ministers be selected by panels consisting of DA ministers , which would be submitted to the President for his approval " and that such approval can not reasonably be withheld " . <p> " The contracts of all current DGs would also need to be reconsidered in light of our concern that incumbents may not be amenable to direction from Democratic Alliance ministers , especially given the ANC 's cadre deployment policy . " <p> " It is obviously not possible to effect change in a context where recent decisions by the previous government are rendered irreversible , " said Zille . <p> The DA also wants a technical " clearing house " to be established , consisting of a representative from each participating party , with a mandate to resolve differences over policy and other decisions of government by consensus , before they become a source of conflict in the Cabinet . <p> Intractable issues would be resolved by Ramaphosa and Steenhuisen . <p> Zille stressed that the DA 's participation in provincial governments in Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal was contingent upon their involvement at the national level . <h> Negotiations ongoing <p> The DA did not respond to questions about its demands . DA national spokesperson Solly Malatsi said the DA remained committed to the Statement of Intent . <p> " The purpose of our negotiations now is to give expression to that statement so that we are able to make a positive impact on the lives of South Africans . We obviously can not enter a government if we do not have the means to effect positive change . We are hopeful that we can reach a satisfactory agreement with the ANC . " <p> Negotiations between the ANC and DA continued over the weekend , with the outcomes of their Monday meeting still pending . <h> Comments <p> " termid " : 387188 , " name " : " Maverick News " , " slug " : " maverick-news " , " termgroup " : 0 , " ... Africa " , " slug " : " south-africa " , " termgroup " : 0 , ... Maverick is an independent online news publication and weekly print newspaper in South Africa. rnrnIt is known for breaking some of the defining stories of South Africa in the past decade , including the Marikana Massacre , in which the South African Police Service killed 34 miners in August 2012. rnrnIt also investigated the Gupta Leaks , which won the 2019 Global Shining Light Award. rnrnThat investigation was credited with exposing the Indian-born Gupta family and former President Jacob Zuma for their role in the systemic political corruption referred to as state capture. rnrnIn 2018 , co-founder and editor-in-chief Branislav u2018Brankou2019 Brkic was awarded the countryu2019s prestigious Nat Nakasa Award , recognised for initiating the investigative collaboration after receiving the hard drive that included the email tranche. rnrnIn 2021 , co-founder and CEO Styli Charalambous also received the award. rnrnDaily Maverick covers the latest political and news developments in South Africa with breaking news updates , analysis , opinions and more . " , " parent " : 0 , " count " : 47369 , " filter " : " raw ... Cape Town mayor Geordin Hill-Lewis previously announced a R1-million reward for information leading to the arrest of those responsible for her death . <p> Kloppers 's murder was linked to " construction mafia " crimes plaguing the city and areas further afield . <p> On Monday afternoon , Western Cape police spokesperson Captain Frederick van Wyk said : " The relentless investigation by members attached to the provincial Organised Crime Investigation Unit led to a 40-year-old suspect handing himself over to SAPS after detectives were on his trail . " <p> Van Wyk did not name the suspect . <h> ' Criminals will be hunted ' <p> He said the suspect was detained in connection with a shooting that took place in Delft on 16 February last year . <p> " According to reports , the suspects arrived at the housing construction site on foot and asked to speak with an unknown individual , when he suddenly started shooting at the individuals on the site , " Van Wyk said . <p> " Kloppers died on the scene due to injuries sustained and a second victim , 40 years old , sustained one gunshot to her arm . " <p> Both Johnson and Stanfield have remained in custody since being arrested in September last year in a car theft case . <p> The investigation following Kloppers ' murder led to the blacklisting of companies linked to Johnson , who is involved in the construction sector . <p> SAPS also investigated other construction tender issues and in March 2023 , a month after Kloppers was killed , Malusi Booi was fired as the mayoral committee member for human settlements . This came after his Cape Town office was raided during a fraud and corruption investigation . <p> Ralph Stanfield 's name surfaced in that investigation , which dealt with whether Booi had accepted bribes from underworld figures . <p> Their case may be joined to that of Stanfield and Johnson.Cloete , Pelston and Wilson face charges relating to various offences , including the September 2021 murder of Faizel Adams , a police officer based at Parliament . <p> He had been visiting a cousin in Cape Town 's northern suburbs when he was shot dead . <p> Ithas been reported that former Western Cape Judge President John Hlophe , who was recently impeached , is set to lead the uMkhonto Wesizwe ( MK ) party in the National Assembly . <p> The revelation came from a leaked document issued by MK Secretary-General Arthur Zwane , detailing the party 's new leadership appointments . MK spokesperson Nhlamulo Ndhlela subsequently confirmed this on 21 June . <p> This is surprising since Hlophe does not appear on the list of candidates for the MK party -- neither on the national list of 198 candidates nor on the regional lists . <p> After the votes were counted , the Electoral Commission of SA ( IEC ) designated 58 seats for the MK party . The procedure is set out in item 14 of Schedule IA to the Electoral Act . It specifies that after the counting of the votes has been concluded and the number of seats of each party has been determined , the IEC must designate from each list of candidates the representatives of each party to the National Assembly . <p> The Act further states that if a candidate 's name was on a regional list and the national list , the party must inform the commission from which list the candidate should be designated , with the candidate 's name being deleted from the other list . The candidate next on the list then moves up one slot . The period to do this is short ( two days ) . If a party fails to indicate to the commission from which list a candidate 's name must be deleted , such candidate 's name must be deleted from all the lists . <p> John Hlophe was not nominated as a candidate on thenational list and also not on thenational regional list of candidates that the MK party submitted to the Electoral Commission . So , how does it come about that he is suddenly nominated by MK to be a member of Parliament ? <p> For that , one must look at the rules to supplement lists . Item 15 says that a party may not supplement a list of candidates for the legislature prior to the designation of representatives by the IEC . In other words , the candidates who were nominated by the party for election on their list get into Parliament according to the number of seats allocated to the party , depending on their ranking on the lists . <p> After the designation of candidates for each party by the IEC , a party may supplement its lists of candidates " on one occasion only at any time during the first 12 months following the date on which the designation of representatives ... has been concluded , in order to fill casual vacancies " . The names of the persons who are added must be made at the end of the list ( Item 17 . ) <p> A casual vacancy can only arise after designated members have been inaugurated by the Chief Justice because that is when members of Parliament take up their office . <p> In the case of Hlophe , there is simply no MK party vacancy that could be filled because its members have not even been inaugurated . <p> But let us therefore presume that the plan of the MK party is that once its designated members have been inaugurated , one of its duly elected members of Parliament should make place for Hlophe . The next issue would be to clarify under which circumstances a casual vacancy arises . <p> One must first look at what the Constitution says . Section 47(3) lists three instances when a casual vacancy can arise , namely if a member of Parliament : <p> Ceases to be eligible on the basis of the grounds listed in section 47(1) of the Constitution , e.g. if a member of Parliament is convicted and sentenced to more than 12 months imprisonment , becomes insolvent , is mentally incapacitated , etc . <p> Is absent from the Assembly without permission in circumstances for which the rules and orders of the Assembly prescribe loss of membership . <p> Ceases to be a member of the party that nominated that person as a member of the Assembly . <p> None of these circumstances is present in order to construe a casual vacancy that could be filled by Hlophe . That is , apart from the fact that the party currently has no members of Parliament who have taken up their seats . <p> Item 16 of Schedule 1A to the Electoral Act expands on casual vacancies and includes the following instances : <p> If a representative is elected as the president or to any other executive office as a result of which he or she resigns as a representative of a legislature ; <p> If a representative is appointed as a permanent delegate to the National Council of Provinces ; <p> If a name is deleted from a list in terms of item 14(2) or ( 3 ) ; or <p> A vacancy has occurred and the appropriate list of candidates of the party concerned is depleted . <p> The first instance is not applicable , because the party leader of the ANC was elected as President . That does not involve the MK party . <p> Second , none of the would-be MK members of Parliament could have been designated as permanent delegates to the National Council of Provinces either because they have not yet been inaugurated . <p> Third , there is no information available on whether or not designated members have been deleted from one list in favour of another list in order to take up a seat in Parliament , but even so , the lists are so long that there are more than enough candidates to stand in . <p> Finally , should a designated member resign shortly after having been inaugurated to create an artificial vacancy , the party 's lists of candidates have not been depleted . There were 199 candidates listed on the MK party 's national list and 198 of them remained after Jacob Zuma was barred from standing for office . <p> Ample candidates were also listed on the various regional lists : Eastern Cape ( 25 ) ; Free State ( nine ) ; Gauteng ( 47 ) ; KwaZulu-Natal ( 40 ) ; Limpopo ( 19 ) ; Mpumalanga ( 15 ) ; North West ( 13 ) ; and Western Cape ( 25 ) . There are therefore more than sufficient candidates to fill any putative " vacancy " from both lists . <p> However , what has transpired is that Parliament has implemented the rule to fill vacancies in a very curious way since 2014 . To fill a vacancy , the candidate must state under oath , first , that he/she is eligible ( i.e. not barred in terms of s 47(1) of the Constitution ) , and , secondly , " available " or " not available " . <p> According to insiders familiar with the circumstances , the party lists are often artificially " depleted " insofar as candidates , who are next in line on the list to fill a vacancy , are often pressurised to state that they are " not available " in order to delete them from the list . In this way , numerous persons could be taken off the list to deplete it in order to make place for candidates who are added on a supplementary basis . <p> It would appear that this is the trick up the sleeve of the leaders of the MK party to make a place for Hlophe as their leader in Parliament , although there are many candidates still available on their lists . The MK party is not the only culprit in this regard , though . <p> This " arrangement " is obviously unconstitutional because section 19(3) of the Constitution guarantees the right of adult citizens to vote for candidates or to stand for office , and if elected , to hold office . The supplementing of party lists to fill casual vacancies should be a rare exception because the party bosses then de facto " nominate " outsiders who did not participate as candidates in the election to fill a vacancy . <p> InElectoral Commission v MK Political Party and Others , the Constitutional Court also ruled that the eligibility of a candidate must be examined by the Electoral Commission before the elections . Such an examination by Parliament would therefore only be applicable when an elected member becomes disqualified after the election or when a list is supplemented . <p> One could likewise argue that if a person declares him/herself willing to be a candidate in an election , such a person should then also be " available " to fill a vacancy . <p> To summarise , if the law is applied correctly , there is no leeway for the MK party to " nominate " former Judge Hlophe to be its leader in the National Assembly . <p> It would be advisable for the Chief Justice to have a hard look at the applicable law before inaugurating the 58 designated members of the MK party should their number include persons other than those designated by the Electoral Commission . DM <h> Comments <p> " termid " : 387188 , " name " : " Maverick News " , " slug " : " maverick-news " , " termgroup " : 0 , " ... Africa " , " slug " : " south-africa " , " termgroup " : 0 , ... Maverick is an independent online news publication and weekly print newspaper in South Africa. rnrnIt is known for breaking some of the defining stories of South Africa in the past decade , including the Marikana Massacre , in which the South African Police Service killed 34 miners in August 2012. rnrnIt also investigated the Gupta Leaks , which won the 2019 Global Shining Light Award. rnrnThat investigation was credited with exposing the Indian-born Gupta family and former President Jacob Zuma for their role in the systemic political corruption referred to as state capture. rnrnIn 2018 , co-founder and editor-in-chief Branislav u2018Brankou2019 Brkic was awarded the countryu2019s prestigious Nat Nakasa Award , recognised for initiating the investigative collaboration after receiving the hard drive that included the email tranche. rnrnIn 2021 , co-founder and CEO Styli Charalambous also received the award. rnrnDaily Maverick covers the latest political and news developments in South Africa with breaking news updates , analysis , opinions and more . " , " parent " : 0 , " count " : 47369 , " filter " : " raw ... Citizen " , " slug " : " maverick-citizen " , " termgrou ... Model rural school in Stellenbosch gets top marks for changing lives <p> South Africans , disillusioned by empty political promises , are taking matters into their own hands by addressing issues like potholes themselves , with the urgent need for improved public education highlighted by the success of Calling Academy , a grassroots initiative providing top-quality schooling to underprivileged pupils , proving that real change starts from within the community . <p> Thirty years after our country 's historic first democratic elections , South Africans , wizened by meaningless election-time talk , have learnt to ignore the noise , roll up their sleeves and take care of some things , such as filling potholes , themselves . <p> There are also other areas that need urgent attention . Education , the road that should lead to a better future , is one and it needs the government 's urgent attention . <p> South Africa is staggering owing to a lack of quality public education . Only those who can pay their way through expensive public or private schools that draw their pupils from super-earners escape the damnation of government schools that are not safe from gangsters , are endangered by pit latrines and are not bolstered by a teaching system that will equip young people to pursue a decent life . It is an understatement that state-funded education is failing this country . <p> Waiting for the government to improve the situation is futile . It 's up to South Africans to do something to save some of our children . This is exactly what a group of young teachers are doing in a very real way at Calling Education . Most of these teachers have enjoyed the privileges of being educated at very good , and sometimes highly prestigious , schools . <p> Calling Education was founded by Werner Cloete , an erstwhile head boy of Paul Roos Gymnasium in Stellenbosch , and Dr Phillip Geldenhuys , who saw the need for an alternative high school model to be established in Stellenbosch . <p> At the time , Cloete was a physical science teacher at Paul Roos before he resigned . From 2015 to 2017 , in partnership with Willem Meyer ( the founder of Campitor Agribusiness Investments ) , Cloete did the research needed for an effective model to provide top-quality education to pupils from low-income communities . <p> This vision led to Calling Academy , an all-boys high school with a Christian ethos , being established in 2018 outside Stellenbosch . There were three teachers and 60 Grade 8 pupils from townships around Stellenbosch . Its success led to the establishment of a co-ed Calling Academy in Kroonstad , Free State in January 2022 . <p> The Stellenbosch Calling Academy is on the corner of the busy Polkadraai and Vlaeberg roads . Surrounded by vineyards and magnificent wine farms close to Stellenbosch , the location of the school comes as a surprise . It has modern facilities , a soccer field and cricket nets , and is in a rural setting , kilometres away from the temptations that could lure young minds to the Stellenbosch CBD . <p> Calling Academy is a fully fledged high school with classes up to Grade 12 . It is the only international partner of the Oxford Day Academy , and in 2019 and 2022 some pupils were selected to attend an annual convention at Oxford University . Rolling out an independent school level of education in a rural environment and at highly subsidised fees -- which even if they seem low might be very high for some township residents -- places a responsibility on staff , pupils and supporters to raise funds creatively . <p> The person at the heart of this fundraising is Stellenbosch University law graduate Stephan May , who holds a senior position in a Stellenbosch blue chip company . <p> A product of Paul Roos , where the annual school fees are R57,330 , his heartstrings were pulled when Cloete told him about the vision behind the Calling Academy . <p> Cloete spoke passionately about the stark reality of raising funds to make it possible to help educate the next generation of leaders . <p> " I had heard about Calling Academy . It was incredible what they were doing . I always wanted to help but never got around to doing something about it ... That night I was tossing and turning and the idea came about how to help , " said May . <p> Fundraiser Stephan May , who came up with the challenge idea , on the trail run . ( Photo : Supplied ) <p> He remembered that a colleague had done a fundraiser for another organisation and had entered the London Marathon . Sponsors would reward the institution for which she was raising funds if she ran the marathon in under three hours . <p> " Her example planted the seed . Was there something I could do to galvanise people to support the school ? That 's where the challenge idea came from . " <p> He got some friends to join him . " There were a few crazy guys who went along . We were eight or nine guys in the beginning . ' ' <p> More than R700,000 was raised in the event 's first year . This year , 43 entrants ( assisted by about 30 others ) took part . Dangerous sea conditions ruled out a swim from Robben Island and an alternative 8km route in Table Bay was devised . <p> " The magic lies in an individual doing all three events . It really does feel like a community and a team event . The event is creating a space for people to raise funds for the school so that the school does not have to go out looking for money . " <p> Calling Academy in Stellenbosch . The building , designed by SALT Architects , has just won a prestigious international architecture prize . ( Photo : Southland Photography ) <p> Calling Academy in Stellenbosch . ( Photo : Southland Photography ) <p> The entry rules for this year 's race were also amended . " We ... said ' come do the event for free but then you must become an ambassador and fundraiser for the school ' . ? ' ' <p> He added : " The purpose of the event was to create a platform to tell the school 's story , to talk about the lives they are changing . " <p> This year 's challenge was a success with corporate sponsors coming on board , and 617 unique donations totalling R1,344,000 . <p> Over the past few years about R2-million has been raised in this way for Calling Academy . It has helped the school to keep fees at a minimum and still deliver a standard of education that is akin to South Africa 's top independent schools . <p> Annual school fees are about R7,320 per pupil . " The more funds we raise , the more schools they can open ... These schools must be as accessible to as many learners as possible . " <p> Calling Academy 's success has been noted . Western Cape education MEC David Maynier said : " Calling Academy is doing excellent work ... We are interested in exploring various types of partnerships with the private sector and donors , to expand the number of school places and provide quality education in the Western Cape . " <p> And that is what must be top of mind for the new government of national unity . DM <p> This story first appeared in our weekly Daily Maverick 168 newspaper , which is available countrywide for R35 . <h> Comments <p> " termid " : 29 , " name " : " South Africa " , " slug " : " south-africa " , " termgroup " : 0 , ... Maverick is an independent online news publication and weekly print newspaper in South Africa. rnrnIt is known for breaking some of the defining stories of South Africa in the past decade , including the Marikana Massacre , in which the South African Police Service killed 34 miners in August 2012. rnrnIt also investigated the Gupta Leaks , which won the 2019 Global Shining Light Award. rnrnThat investigation was credited with exposing the Indian-born Gupta family and former President Jacob Zuma for their role in the systemic political corruption referred to as state capture. rnrnIn 2018 , co-founder and editor-in-chief Branislav u2018Brankou2019 Brkic was awarded the countryu2019s prestigious Nat Nakasa Award , recognised for initiating the investigative collaboration after receiving the hard drive that included the email tranche. rnrnIn 2021 , co-founder and CEO Styli Charalambous also received the award. rnrnDaily Maverick covers the latest political and news developments in South Africa with breaking news updates , analysis , opinions and more . " , " parent " : 0 , " count " : 47369 , " filter " : " raw ... Cosatu not consulted about government of national unity -- ' that train had long left ' <p> Cosatu , long-time ally of the ANC , expresses disappointment at not being consulted on the formation of the government of national unity , but accepts the inclusion of the DA , despite labelling it a racist , anti-worker party , as it prepares for a national economic strike to defend the rights of workers . <p> Cosatu , a long-time ally of the ANC , was not consulted on the formation of the government of national unity ( GNU ) . <p> The labour federation expressed disappointment at not being included in the decision-making process on the GNU and Cabinet appointments . <p> Despite reservations about the DA 's policies , Cosatu has accepted the inclusion of the party in the GNU . <p> Cosatu plans to mobilise for a national economic strike to protest against retrenchments and workers ' rights violations . <p> Cosatu general secretary Solly Phetoe at a media briefing at Cosatu House in Johannesburg on 24 June 2024 . ( Photo : Gallo Images / Sharon Seretlo ) <p> Despite Cosatu being an ally of the African National Congress ( ANC ) and campaigning for the party since 1994 , the federation says it was never " consulted " or asked to contribute to the formation of the government of national unity ( GNU ) . <p> Instead , it was " briefed " on the plan to form a government and the resulting Statement of Intent . <p> Cosatu 's first deputy president , Michael Shingange , said , " In the instance of the GNU , the ANC has chosen to be clear about the independence of each one of us . " <p> The labour federation briefed the media on Monday on the outcomes of its Central Executive Committee ( CEC ) meeting held last week . The federation also reflected on the results of the recent general elections , the formation of the GNU and the soon-to-be-appointed Cabinet . <p> Cosatu , the South African Communist Party ( SACP ) and the ANC form the Tripartite Alliance . <p> " We had hoped to be consulted because the Statement of Intent and things that need to be contained in the body of the document should have taken into consideration the interest of all concerned , ourselves included , " said Shingange . <p> " Sadly , it 's a Statement of Intent for political parties who contested the elections . We did not contribute anything to the statement . We were briefed about it , we had our views , supported some , and had concerns about some . <p> " But at the end of the day , it is a Statement of Intent for those wanting to get into a marriage and we are not part of that marriage as Cosatu . " <p> Shingange said Cosatu would have preferred the ANC to lead a minority government . <p> " That train had long left by the time we had an opportunity to engage with our allies . The announcement of the GNU was long made , " said Shingange . <h> DA inclusion ' unavoidable ' <p> Nonetheless , Cosatu has welcomed the GNU and the Statement of Intent while remaining opposed to the DA and its policies , claiming the DA opposes labour reforms seeking to improve the lives of workers . <p> " We have come to accept as a country and a labour movement that constitutionally it is the prerogative of the President of the country to put together an executive of the country . We have also come to appreciate that these are not some of the previous elections where the ANC or one party would have won and therefore reserves the right to constitute a government . <p> " The inclusion of the DA is unavoidable now that they are part of the GNU , despite our opposing views on their policies . But for as long as their conduct and mandate will be in line with the Constitution and Bill of Rights , it will be in line with the need to change the living and working conditions of South Africans , " said Shingange . <p> Referring to racist comments made by suspended DA MP Renaldo Gouws , Cosatu 's general secretary , Solly Phetoe , said the DA was a racist , anti-worker party but now that it was part of the government it should be more for the working class . <p> " We are unapologetic that DA continues to consistently present issues of racism . One of their members who is in Parliament made a statement that is dangerous and threatening to workers in particular and the DA said , no he is suspended and must be investigated . <p> " He must be charged and face the music ... It 's racism and racism is criminal . <p> Phetoe said that Cosatu expected , " that we should not experience a reversal of the progress we have made ... for the last 30 years in the economic trajectory , rights of the majority of the working class , national minimum wage , national health insurance , terms and conditions of employment , Employment Equity Act and affirmative action . <p> " That is an action that we still expect , irrespective of who is going to be put up in government . " <p> Cosatu is mobilising for a strike , which it is calling a " day of national economic action " , in August or September . The date has yet to be announced . <p> Phetoe said : " This will be an economic strike targeting businesses both in private and public sectors because these are the people retrenching workers , including government . The issues are overarching -- retrenchment and not respecting the rights of workers . " <h> Impact diluted <p> Unisa political analyst Professor Dirk Kotz ? said Cosatu 's concerns over the DA stemmed from its role in protecting the rights of its members , many of whom were in the public sector . The DA has urged the government to reduce the public wage bill and criticised employees ' salary increases . <p> " What will also have an effect on Cosatu is the many partners forming the GNU and the fact that the ANC has to consult all of them when they want to take important decisions , " said Kotz ? . <p> " It dilutes the impact of the Communist Party and Cosatu in such decision-making powers because they were in the past part of a consultation process , for example for the appointment of ministers and before the Sona speech , lekgotlas . <p> " They had privileged access to the ANC . Now that there are so many others that the ANC has to listen to , that privileged access to some extent is tamed down . They have to now share that access . " DM <h> Comments <p> " termid " : 29 , " name " : " South Africa " , " slug " : " south-africa " , " termgroup " : 0 , ... Maverick is an independent online news publication and weekly print newspaper in South Africa. rnrnIt is known for breaking some of the defining stories of South Africa in the past decade , including the Marikana Massacre , in which the South African Police Service killed 34 miners in August 2012. rnrnIt also investigated the Gupta Leaks , which won the 2019 Global Shining Light Award. rnrnThat investigation was credited with exposing the Indian-born Gupta family and former President Jacob Zuma for their role in the systemic political corruption referred to as state capture. rnrnIn 2018 , co-founder and editor-in-chief Branislav u2018Brankou2019 Brkic was awarded the countryu2019s prestigious Nat Nakasa Award , recognised for initiating the investigative collaboration after receiving the hard drive that included the email tranche. rnrnIn 2021 , co-founder and CEO Styli Charalambous also received the award. rnrnDaily Maverick covers the latest political and news developments in South Africa with breaking news updates , analysis , opinions and more . " , " parent " : 0 , " count " : 47369 , " filter " : " raw ... Citizen " , " slug " : " maverick-citizen " , " termgrou ... South Africa 's recent election sends a clear message to Zanu-PF and Zimbabwe <p> Despite the ANC losing its majority , the ruling party did not resort to violence or electoral irregularities to re-assert its dominance . This is in stark contrast to the violent and much-disputed electoral history of Zanu-PF . <p> A billboard taking a stand against political violence in Harare , Zimbabwe , on 22 August 2023 , the day before the country 's national elections last year . ( Photo : EPA-EFE / Aaron Ufumeli ) <p> The 2024 elections saw the ANC lose its parliamentary majority for the first time in the post-apartheid era . The vote for the liberation party declined from 57.5% in 2019 to 40.2% in 2024 , leading to a fall in the number of National Assembly seats from 230 in 2019 to 159 in 2024 . <p> In second place in the elections was the Democratic Alliance with 21.8% of the vote , and we saw the strong emergence of uMkhonto Wesizwe , the newly formed party of the former leader of the ANC , Jacob Zuma , which emerged with 14.6% voter support . <p> The major outcome of this election is that the ANC has negotiated a Government of National Unity ( GNU ) under the leadership of Cyril Ramaphosa and the ANC . <p> The GNU is faced with the complex challenges of dealing with the apartheid legacies of poverty , inequality and complex ethnic and racial constructions of national belonging . <h> Implications for Zimbabwe <h> The Zimbabwe Exemption Permit ( ZEP ) <p> For Zimbabwean migrants in South Africa and their families back home , the ZEP issues have been a major concern for several years . The upsurge in xenophobic narratives in some political parties in the recent past has exacerbated the sense of fear , insecurity and anxiety among migrants in South Africa . <p> While the immigration issue was in the top five agenda items in the manifestos of all the parties in the recent elections , it is unclear how the GNU will move on the ZEP issue . This is because of a combination of the potential differences among the GNU parties on immigration , the ongoing legal challenges to the unlawful termination of the ZEP , the administrative incapacity of the state in the implementation of the policy , and the lack of clarity of the recentgovernment White Paper on Immigration issued by the Department of Home Affairs ( DHA ) . <p> In astrong critique of the paper , the Southern African Liaison Office , a South African NGO , laid out some of its weaknesses : <p> " The DHA goes to great lengths to build a case that the proposition to overhaul the current system is in line with international trends , but the DHA has been selective in building its case on practice and not ' best ' practice . Additionally , the White paper lacks insight into the socio-economic conditions and political drivers that have played a role in promoting anti-immigrant sentiment , coupled with the spread of migration misinformation published and promoted by public officials , and political and social movement leaders . It is clear that the White Paper adopts some of the narratives as a basis for the proposals , which re-surface similar language and tone . " <h> Sanctions <p> While there are likely to be differences in the GNU over the sanctions issue and Zimbabwe , this is unlikely to change the SA government 's position in support of the removal of the remaining sanctions on the Emmerson Mnangagwa regime . <p> Given the continued support of SADC and the AU for the government of Zimbabwe on this question , it will be very difficult for the GNU to shift the current SA position on this matter . <p> Moreover , in a move closer to the EU 's sanctions position on Zimbabwe , the US government has also recently moved towards targeted sanctions . <p> In March 2024 the US Department of the Treasury announced that President Joe Biden signed anExecutive Order " terminating the national emergency with respect to Zimbabwe and revoking the Executive Orders that have authorised Zimbabwe-specific sanctions . As a result , the economic sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control ( OFAC ) pursuant to the Zimbabwe sanctions are no longer in effect . " <p> Thestatement also noted that the US was moving toward " a clear and targeted approach to hold egregious human rights offenders and corrupt actors accountable " according to the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act . <p> Given the strained relations between the US and South Africa , particularly relating to the latter 's strong position on Palestine and its " ability to act as a normative superpower , exceeding even the great powers in its capacity to shape the global moral discourse " , in the context of the changing power relations in global politics , the potential move by the US towards a more transactional relationship with the authoritarian Mnangagwa regime should not come as a surprise . The US has a long history of such relationships . <h> The state of the opposition <p> In much of the political sphere in South Africa , there is an increasing concern about the divided and confusing state of the political opposition in Zimbabwe . There is little doubt that the long-term strategy of the state to systematically dismantle the main opposition party in the country has had dire effects on the capacity and structures of opposition politics . <p> However , the persistent fractures and leadership transitional challenges in the MDC since the mid-2000s , and the more recent turmoil in the Nelson Chamisa-led CCC , have cast serious doubts on the future of opposition politics in Zimbabwe . <p> Chamisa 's concentration on the importance of his personal leadership , the party 's lack of structures and his politics of " strategic ambiguity " , have contributed to the disarticulation of opposition politics . While historically the ANC has had a problematic relationship with Zanu-PF , it has had even more challenges with opposition politics in Zimbabwe . <p> Thus , the current state of the opposition has facilitated its narrative of legitimising the post-coup regime in Zimbabwe . In addition , Chamisa'scontinued call for SADC to " peacefully resolve the issues around the irregular and disputed election " of 2023 , is unlikely to lead to any further substantive regional involvement . <h> Elements of hope <p> There are two hopeful outcomes of the South African elections . <p> First , despite the ANC losing a majority vote in the National Assembly , the ruling party did not resort to violence or electoral irregularities to re-assert its dominance . Instead , it respected the vote of the citizenry , the Constitution and the electoral institution put in place after 1994 . This is in stark contrast to the violent and much-disputed electoral history of Zanu-PF and its party/state . <p> Second , considering the voting outcome , the ANC has begun the process of setting up a Government of National Unity without the intervention of SADC and is calling for a renewed politics of non-racism and reconciliation . <p> It is still too early to gauge whether this process can be sustained , given the major cleavages in South African society . But it could send a different message from the polarised and retributive politics of Zimbabwe 's ruling party . DM <p> Brian Raftopoulos is Senior Research Fellow at the Nelson Mandela School of Public Governance , University of Cape Town . <h> Cheese , Vegans and Markets <p> In the age of Big Data , analysts are presented with billions of readily available data points and time series which can be used to identify trends , optimise processes , and efficiently manage risk . At Prescient Investment Management ( PIM ) , we are no strangers to Big Data , processing over 120 million indicators per day . Our systematic , data-driven approach allows us to analyse these vast amounts of data , construct models , and derive insights to drive investment decisions . <p> While it might sound like a good idea to throw the kitchen sink at trying to forecast the one-year ahead return on an asset class , one should take care to avoid spurious correlations . Simply put , if one time series appears to drive or influence another and they share a high correlation , it merits a deeper investigation to determine if the relationship will continue for the foreseeable future and if there is a plausible explanation for the correlation . <p> We illustrate this with two examples . <p> Figures 1 and 2 below show the total per capita consumption of American cheese varieties in the United States , compared to South Africa 's Government Debt-to-Gross Domestic Product ( GDP ) ratio . <p> Figures 3 and 4 are a further example , illustrating the global number of Veganuary ( a January challenge promoting eating vegan for a month ) signups compared to the FTSE/JSE Top 40 Index ( South Africa 's largest listed companies ) . <p> At first glance , these charts reveal very promising trends , with both series closely tracking each other over time . However , it is crucial to statistically measure the relationship between these series when building models , rather than relying on a quick -- and often misleading -- visual inspection . By doing so , we ensure that the analysis is based on robust evidence , providing more reliable insights and predictions . <p> In both examples , we consider two basic measures . <p> 1 . The " Pearson correlation " is often one of the first ways in which an analyst would measure a linear correlation . We calculate a correlation coefficient of 0.92 in example 1 and 0.95 in example 2 . Note -- a value of 1 indicates a perfectly positive correlation and thus the output of the above show that something is indeed happening here . <p> 2 . We can also plot a linear trend line through the data and find that : <p> a ) The change in cheese consumption " explains " 85% of the variance , or change , in the debt-to-GDP ratio . <p> b ) The change in Veganuary signups " explains " 90% of the variance , or change , in the FTSE/JSE Top 40 index . <p> As an importer of dairy products , one could posit that increased cheese consumption in the US would cause a surge in global dairy market prices , and that the higher import costs faced by South Africa would strain the national budget , leading to increased borrowing . <p> One could similarly argue that a surge in global Veganuary signups has driven technological advancements in farming methods and logistics due to the increased demand for organic food . These advancements , in turn , enhance global agricultural efficiency and transportation , leading to increased revenues and cost savings for companies . Consequently , it is reasonable to infer that such financial gains could lead to rising stock prices , thereby positively impacting indices such as the FTSE/JSE Top 40 Index . <p> Taking it back to the point of thorough analysis , delving deeper into these relationships is crucial because correlations can be deceptive . They might arise due to chance , external factors , or sheer coincidence . For investors , understanding whether a correlation is genuine or spurious is vital . A spurious correlation can lead to misguided decisions and potential financial loss . <h> Cause-and-effect relationships <p> In addition to the above , it is essential to recognise that correlation -- two variables moving in tandem -- does not imply causation ( one variable causes the other to move ) . Statistical techniques primarily capture underlying patterns in data , rather than establishing cause-and-effect relationships . <p> Investors must also try to gauge causation . While two variables might move together , it is essential to determine if this co-movement is due to a real underlying relationship or merely coincidental . This involves rigorous analysis to assess whether one variable can reliably forecast or drive changes in another . Establishing causation helps in creating models that are not only accurate but also reliable over time . <p> Therefore , when evaluating correlations , investors should look for a plausible explanation and consider factors like economic theory , market mechanics , and historical context . This approach ensures that their forecasts are based on robust and meaningful relationships , rather than on mere statistical artifacts . <p> Additionally , understanding causation allows for better risk management and more informed decision-making , ultimately leading to more consistent investment outcomes . <h> What then ? <p> A robust process for considering the inclusion of certain factors and/or variables is key , especially in PIM 's role as custodian of our clients ' hard-earned savings , where risk management is paramount . We take multiple steps to ensure that our systematic process is robust , allowing us to reduce human biases with unparalleled efficiency . <p> The first of these steps is to ensure we have the necessary expertise in our field to understand the context of the process , as well as to assess if the relationships make sense within the specified context . Any series being considered first undergoes a data cleaning process , warranting that the data is accurate , complete , and ready for model-building . At this stage , regularisation allows for the penalisation of overly complex models that capture noise rather than the underlying trend , favouring parsimonious models . We split the data into training and testing sets to validate the findings . The final model undergoes rigorous discussion and evaluation by the team to ensure that human biases and spurious correlations are effectively reduced . <p> It is our view that there is a key difference between testing anything-and-everything or implementing a thoughtful and systematic approach . In the age of big data , harnessing such power is essential for delivering long-term outperformance while placing risk at the heart of this process . This is what we do at PIM . <p> While we believe in the power of Big Data and the opportunities presented by it , sound data science and analytical methods allowing for the careful consideration of each metric are key to delivering consistent , long-term outperformance . <p> It is through this that asset managers will be able to efficiently navigate evolving markets , and uncertainty , and ultimately provide value to their clients . DM/BM <p> * Prescient Investment Management ( Pty ) Ltd is an authorised Financial Services Provider ( FSP 612 ) . * Please note there are risks involved in buying or selling a financial product , and past performance of a financial product is not necessarily a guide to future performance . The value of financial products can increase as well as decrease over time , depending on the value of the underlying securities and market conditions . There is no guarantee in respect of capital or returns in a portfolio . No action should be taken on the basis of this information without first seeking independent professional advice . Graphs are provided for illustrative purposes only . * *FAIS representative acting under supervision . * This document is for information purposes only and does not constitute or form part of any offer to issue or sell or any solicitation of any offer to subscribe for or purchase any particular investments . Opinions expressed in this document may be changed without notice at any time after publication . We therefore disclaim any liability for any loss , liability , damage ( whether direct or consequential ) or expense of any nature whatsoever which may be suffered as a result of or which may be attributable directly or indirectly to the use of or reliance upon the information . For more information visit www.prescient.co.za <p> African savannah elephants have been found to have name-like calls for one another , expanding our understanding of language evolution . <p> Researchers discovered a variety of sounds in elephant communication that could constitute language , with potential similarities to human abstract naming . <p> Elephants respond to recorded calls naming them , indicating the use of learned arbitrary labels and suggesting abstract thought capabilities . <p> Vocal labelling in elephants may play a significant role in communication and social bonding , similar to how human names enhance social interactions . <p> An elephant family on the move . ( Photo : Don Pinnock ) <p> Being addressed by name was considered exclusive to humans -- until now . A new study in Amboseli National Park in Kenya has found that African savannah elephants have name-like calls for one another , in the way humans do -- a finding that potentially radically expands our knowledge of language evolution . <p> Researchers also found a huge variety of other sounds in their communication which could constitute language , but we do not yet know how to interpret it . <p> While dolphins and parrots will imitate the call of another addressing them , human names are not imitations of the sounds but abstract labels . Naming objects or individuals without relying on imitation radically expanded the expressive power and development of human language . <p> Elephant and human evolution diverged tens of millions of years ago , but both species are socially complex and highly communicative . They live within family units and larger clan structures similar to our complex social networks . Similar needs , says the study , are likely to have driven the development of the naming of other individuals with abstract sounds . <p> Kurt Fristrup , a research scientist at Columbia State University , worked out a way to detect subtle differences in call structure and , with colleague Michael Pardo , trained a machine-learning model to identify who an elephant was addressing based on its acoustic features . <p> Mother and daughter bond for life . ( Photo : Don Pinnock ) <p> When they played back recorded calls , elephants responded to those that were addressed to them by calling back or approaching the speaker . Calls meant for other elephants received less attention . <p> Videos taken by researchers show how the elephants respond to call recordings naming them . In one , an elephant named Margaret appears to almost immediately perk up to a rumble recording addressed to her . <p> Another elephant named Donatella shows the animal issuing a call response after hearing her name and approaching the recording . A separate video shows Margaret raising her head to a call addressed to another elephant , but not responding . <p> In the study , published in the June edition of the journal Nature Ecology and Evolution , Pardo and the team used machine-learning methods to analyse recordings of 469 calls or " rumbles -- harmonically rich , low-frequency and individually distinct sounds " -- made by groups in the Amboseli National Park and Samburu and Buffalo Springs National Reserves in Kenya . <p> Naming has profound implications , said co-author George Wittemyer , and means elephants may be capable of abstract thought . <p> " If all we could do was make noises that sounded like what we were talking about , it would vastly limit our ability to communicate . " <p> The use of learned arbitrary labels is part of what gives human language its uniquely broad range of expression . <p> " One of the exciting things about this study , " said Wittemyer , " is it gives us some insight into possible drivers of why we evolved these abilities . " <p> If elephants can name each other , what else are they capable of naming in their speech ? <p> Elephants are great mimics and have many call types . Contact rumbles are long-distance calls produced when the caller is out of sight and attempting to reinitiate contact . Greeting rumbles are produced when one elephant approaches another to within touching distance and caregiving rumbles are produced by an adult or adolescent female while suckling , comforting or rousing a calf . <p> According to the study , vocal labels account for only a small fraction of the total variation in these sounds . They may be embedded within a call that conveys multiple additional messages . Researchers speculate that vocal labelling -- abstract naming -- may be the main function of " language " in wild elephants . <p> Most human words , including names , are arbitrary , says the study . They 're not imitations of sounds or tied to physical properties . Arbitrariness is crucial to language because it enables communication about things that do not make any sound . This process must be learned because an individual is not born knowing the names of all their future family or the world they will live in . <p> To do this is mentally very demanding , say the researchers , requiring an individual to make an abstract connection between a sound and who they are addressing . <p> Vocal labels could enhance coordinating ability when elephants are out of sight of one another and allow callers to attract the attention of a specific intended receiver while greeting rumbles are produced in close proximity when the caller and receiver have visual contact . <p> " Vocal labelling in greeting rumbles could possibly strengthen social bonds with specific individuals . Humans experience a positive affective response and increased willingness to comply with requests when someone remembers their name . " <p> Two juvenile elephants greet each other in Buffalo Springs National Reserves in Kenya . ( Photo : George Wittemyer ) <p> A study in the journalProceedings of the National Academy of Sciences last year found that elephant " self-domestication " may have led to some of their advanced traits , such as complex communication , mourning their dead , helping sick or injured elephants and even recognising themselves in mirrors . <p> According to the self-domestication hypothesis , humans have gone through a process of " selection against aggression " that was self-induced and not forced . <p> Study co-author and Max Planck Institute evolutionary biologist Limor Raviv and her colleagues looked at how African savannah elephants compared with humans and bonobos on 20 different measures . They found that all three species share some of the same physical features and display the same habits . <p> Elephants play , are social , have a long childhood , and " babysit " for the offspring of other members of their groups . Both bonobos and humans also do this . Additionally , wild African elephants have a shortened jawbone , which is a trait shared by domesticated animals such as cats . They also appear to be able to restrain themselves from being aggressive to others . <p> The team suggested that self-domestication in elephants might be related to their large size and relative strength . <p> " This means that elephants are generally less worried about evading or fighting other animals for their survival , " Raviv said . <p> " This kind of ' safe environment ' could relax selective pressures for aggression , free cognitive resources , and open up more opportunities for exploration , communication and play . " DM <h> Comments <p> " termid " : 405817 , " name " : " Op-eds " , " slug " : " op ... Africa " , " slug " : " south-africa " , " termgroup " : 0 , ... Maverick is an independent online news publication and weekly print newspaper in South Africa. rnrnIt is known for breaking some of the defining stories of South Africa in the past decade , including the Marikana Massacre , in which the South African Police Service killed 34 miners in August 2012. rnrnIt also investigated the Gupta Leaks , which won the 2019 Global Shining Light Award. rnrnThat investigation was credited with exposing the Indian-born Gupta family and former President Jacob Zuma for their role in the systemic political corruption referred to as state capture. rnrnIn 2018 , co-founder and editor-in-chief Branislav u2018Brankou2019 Brkic was awarded the countryu2019s prestigious Nat Nakasa Award , recognised for initiating the investigative collaboration after receiving the hard drive that included the email tranche. rnrnIn 2021 , co-founder and CEO Styli Charalambous also received the award. rnrnDaily Maverick covers the latest political and news developments in South Africa with breaking news updates , analysis , opinions and more . " , " parent " : 0 , " count " : 47369 , " filter " : " raw ... SA has dodged a bullet -- but with hard lessons for nice-guy opposition parties <p> Newcomer opposition leaders Songezo Zibi and Mmusi Maimane fell short in the 2024 election despite their impressive credentials and values , as the electorate remained unimpressed by the " good guys " amidst the rise of unconventional parties and the need for a clear-eyed examination of the shifting political landscape . <p> Why did newcomer opposition leaders Songezo Zibi and Mmusi Maimane -- two attractive , youthful , well-educated party leaders with sound CVs and values -- fail to meet the least of their expectations in the 2024 election ? <p> We need to face this question before we forget what last month 's election results showed us , in the afterglow of the new world of cooperative coalition government . <p> Right now , the constitutionalist opposition is feeling good . <p> For the first time , it 's about to go into government . The markets are over the moon , which means real investment could be on the way . Western governments are quietly pleased , and many ordinary South Africans heaved a sigh of welcome relief . <p> The DA 's management of its side of the talks started masterfully . Unlike most of our previous , unseemly coalition talks , they did not demand positions for any of their leaders . They focussed instead on the best interests of the country , on principles and policies that would make it possible for them to do the difficult work of fixing broken institutions in an awkward alliance , and delivering services better . <p> Their delegation was mature , modest , and respectful of the magnitude of the process they are involved in , and of an electorate that includes some strongly suspicious of them , fueled by fake social media claims that their hidden agenda is Western Cape succession or a return to apartheid . <p> Nevertheless , it would be dangerous to forget what the electorate told the DA as well as the other parties , old and new , that cloaked themselves in constitutional values and non-racialism . <p> The DA 's share of the vote was up only a single percent , from 20.77% in 2019 , to 20.81% last month . That 's still lower than their 2024 result under Helen Zille , when they got 22.23% . Mmusi Maimane was fired as DA leader in 2019 for getting just one per cent less . <p> The Inkatha Freedom Party managed to rise less than half a per cent , from 3.38% to 3.85% , likely on the back of some former supporters who backed Jacob Zuma 's ANC in the 2010s returning to the fold after he retired . Freedom Front+ fell from 2.38% to 1.36% , probably signifying that the DA got back what it lost when Maimane was DA leader . In fact , the DA 's increase of 1.04% almost exactly matches the FF+ 's loss of 1.02% . <p> In short , at a time when the governing party was unprecedentedly vulnerable , the electorate was unimpressed by the " good guys " . <p> The two small opposition parties that became a factor in Parliament for the first time are the Patriotic Alliance ( PA ) in the Western Cape and the Gauteng-based ActionSA ( ASA ) . But the leaders of both now have a lot of words to eat . <p> During the campaign , ASA 's Herman Mashaba said , " We 're bigger than the DA . I do n't see the DA as competition for us . " He has six seats to the DA 's 87 . " The Western Cape is about to change , " preened Patriotic Alliance leader Gayton McKenzie six weeks ago . " We are taking back the Western Cape . " The PA has nine MPs to the DA 's 87 . <p> These two , who did a little better than their peers , have something in common -- they have a base in local government , Mashaba from his time as Johannesburg 's mayor , and McKenzie as Central Karoo mayor . There is a lesson in that , but ultimately they are also-ran parties in Parliament . <p> In other words , the DA , IFP , PA , PAC and Good are in the new government because the ANC lost 17% of its support , almost all to the MK party of Jacob Zuma , which went from zero to 14.58% in six months . <p> We better take a clear-eyed look at why , because our futures depend on it . <p> Zuma 's MK party has denied it is anti-Constitution because it proposes removing the Constitutional Court 's power to overturn legislation through constitutional means , by a constitutional amendment . It may be a fair point , but it 's a radical downgrading of our constitutional checks and balances . And it goes with a demand to overturn Roman-Dutch law and replace it with African law , a vague demand that hardly inspires confidence . <p> The EFF wants far-reaching constitutional amendments , especially on land rights . What both these populist parties have in common is their enthusiasm for shortcuts . The MK party and the EFF together have 24.1% of the vote . <p> The Constitution allows for the confiscation of land provided it meets appropriate criteria , and both jurists and land activists have blamed government for failing to test this with viable cases . The populists want land grabs without safeguards . <h> Constitutionalist opposition parties did badly <p> The constitutionalist opposition 's failure to make gains despite deep pockets and hard work requires deep soul-searching . Why did their honest and honourable quest achieve so little ? It was n't because they lacked the time or money . <p> Rise Mzansi 's R32-million campaign chest gleaned two seats , which works out at R16-million each . Bosa 's two seats cost half the price -- about R16-million for the pair . <p> Zibi and Maimane talked about their vision prolifically . What did they not get right ? <p> What 's missing is real vision , but what does that mean ? It 's harder for constitutionalists to grab attention than it is for populists , who can tug at emotions without pondering achievability . They have to do the harder work . <p> It 's time to face the fact that our politicians have not done the really hard work of figuring out the big picture -- what South Africa really needs to change , and focus on becoming absolutely expert at that . <p> What do successful leaders in other democracies have that we are n't offering ? Too often we look at Barack Obama or Bill Clinton , and try to imitate their style . I covered both at different times . They were much more than outstanding and charismatic speakers . <p> They addressed the issues of their time in fresh ways , showing they were thinking through concrete solutions , to the economy , to climate problems , to foreign policy and yes , to race . <p> How does that translate in South Africa 's current conditions ? <p> Voters may not know the answers , but they can detect when their leaders do n't either . <p> Here are three big-picture areas where we need a far more up-to-date and better-informed view than politicians have offered . <h> SA 's long-term , premature deindustrialisation <p> First , you have to have an informed view of the drivers of rapid growth in the South African economy . You have to have an answer to this question : Why have the targets of the National Development Plan not been met , even remotely ? <p> More importantly , why would they not have even been remotely met even if there had not been State Capture or the electricity crisis ? <p> South Africa is in long-term premature deindustrialisation . The same is true for mining , where total output by volume has been shrinking throughout the democratic era . This explains a great deal of the reason for our uniquely awful unemployment figures , despite our rich endowment of human and other resources . <p> Until we face the causes of long-term deindustrialisation and declining mining output , and figure out the drivers of the rapid growth essential to mop up our horrendous unemployment , we are flailing about . Our politicians talk in vague , general terms about " entrepreneurship " , " small business " , the " private sector . " Government has endless rhetoric about everything from the ocean economy to government works programmes . <p> But there are answers . There is copious research . <p> South Africa has created more jobs in the information economy in the last few years than the whole of the decades-old car sector . Researchers flagged this option two decades ago , but were ignored . It 's finally started happening , despite the government , more than because of it . Our political leaders need to understand what went wrong . <p> A second major driver should be mining . Here one politician , the DA 's James Lorimer , has been going around quietly figuring out where the opportunities are -- major new discoveries in natural gas , oil , as well as for the green and tech economies , rare earths , manganese , copper , etc . He 's looked for the opportunities as well as the blockages . <p> These and one or two other areas have to be understood and put in context by a party leader to get both voters and business inspired to support them . <h> A real conversation about race <p> The second question that needs urgent attention for the aspiring leader is a more up-to-date version of a vision for all races . Simply repeating the Mandela vision is n't good enough . So much has changed in our lived experience since 1994 . <p> A black middle class has access to political power . White youths are leaving because they feel the dice are loaded against them in going for their choice of jobs . Many coloureds feel they were too black under apartheid , but now too white under democracy . And a breakdown in policing makes all races fearful . <p> All races need a more resonant message that they all matter , that there is a place for all , and a harmonious way to get there . What will politicians do to make all races see a place for themselves that connects what politicians say with what they experience in the job market ? What will politicians do to protect them in public ? <h> Real electoral reform <p> There is a third key issue that voters can see , but it 's for politicians to find solutions . The electoral system is failing in one of its most important tasks of all -- providing constituents with an accessible lever to make government accountable to them . <p> Tens of thousands of service delivery protests make that clear . Where are the MPs , MPLs and town councillors ? Every service delivery protest represents the failure of local elected officials . <p> Some form of accountability must be added to the current principle of proportionality in elected MPs . Anyone who goes to Parliament can see the problem : many MPs are too comfortable , they do n't depend for re-election on keeping their constituents happy . <p> Instead of tackling this big problem staring at us , electoral reform became an exercise in electing independents . It failed , was bound to . It did not address the real problem of accountability . It came about as a result of the pressure of local movements , leading to a court order . But it was never going to resolve the real problem -- that voters have nobody to go to with their problems . Only some form of constituency system , however , mixed with proportionality , can do that . <p> Few of the big systemic issues were tackled by the opposition . Focus was understandably on ending corruption and improving government competence , but that should be a bare minimum , not a great vote-getter . The proof is there to see . It was n't . <p> So , amidst the warm optimism of opposition politicians going into Cabinet , it would be dangerous to believe their own PR -- that they succeeded in dislodging the ANC from its majority after 30 years of one-party dominance . <p> The 2029 election will be much harder for the ANC without President Cyril Ramaphosa whose presence at the head of the ticket was responsible for much of the party 's success in 2019 , and even in 2024 , if less so . <p> This week , we felt better . <p> For the first time in a long while , South Africans who understand how jobs are created and how governments can help their citizens have reason for optimism . <p> After an election campaign characterised by alarmism and bloviating ambition , South African leaders recognised the gravity of the moment and the potential for violence and unravelling , and let themselves be guided by their better angels . <p> President Cyril Ramaphosa was magnanimous in defeat , John Steenhuisen was statesmanlike in his call for maturity , and the IFP 's Velenkosini Hlabisa navigated the potentially bitter waters of KwaZulu-Natal with an eye firmly on the main prize , a violence-free reckoning with the election results . Even the South African Police Service was deployed early and in force , anticipating where the greatest risks came from . <p> Meanwhile , the bigger gainer in the election , the sphinx of Nkandla , plots his next move . He 's leading the new " progressive caucus " against the ANC-DA sell-out government . And the " progressive caucus " has turned to race -- it openly calls for the " black " parties to get together to fight this " white minority government " that includes the party he was a member of all his life and which made him president . <p> This is not the programme of a committed constitutionalist , even if he hopes to achieve his ends by amending the Constitution . And his Trump-like accusations that nine million ballots are unaccounted for and the election was rigged , without presenting the evidence in public , inspires misgivings . <p> Clearly , underneath it , he wants to be let off from further corruption or contempt charges without the indignity of having to defend himself in court again . <p> The campaign strategies of the DA and ANC had something in common : to protect their base and try to knock off potential allies eating into their support . Both parties described it as a " squeeze " on the parties yapping at their heels . In this , the DA was far more successful than the ANC . <p> For constitutionalists in all parties , a new seriousness is required . A lot will ride on how the ANC and DA govern . That just underlines that it 's time to get beyond " the DA just needs to find a black leader " , or " all the opposition parties need to amalgamate " . <p> Which black leader ? Amalgamate around what vision ? <p> We dodged a bullet this time . 2029 requires better answers . DM <p> John Matisonn is a policy analyst and author of Cyril 's Choices , an agenda for reform . <h> Comments <p> " termid " : 387188 , " name " : " Maverick News " , " slug " : " maverick-news " , " termgroup " : 0 , " ... Africa " , " slug " : " south-africa " , " termgroup " : 0 , ... Maverick is an independent online news publication and weekly print newspaper in South Africa. rnrnIt is known for breaking some of the defining stories of South Africa in the past decade , including the Marikana Massacre , in which the South African Police Service killed 34 miners in August 2012. rnrnIt also investigated the Gupta Leaks , which won the 2019 Global Shining Light Award. rnrnThat investigation was credited with exposing the Indian-born Gupta family and former President Jacob Zuma for their role in the systemic political corruption referred to as state capture. rnrnIn 2018 , co-founder and editor-in-chief Branislav u2018Brankou2019 Brkic was awarded the countryu2019s prestigious Nat Nakasa Award , recognised for initiating the investigative collaboration after receiving the hard drive that included the email tranche. rnrnIn 2021 , co-founder and CEO Styli Charalambous also received the award. rnrnDaily Maverick covers the latest political and news developments in South Africa with breaking news updates , analysis , opinions and more . " , " parent " : 0 , " count " : 47369 , " filter " : " raw ... A police officer 's firearm goes missing in Khayelitsha while attending a memorial service for a murdered colleague , sparking an investigation against a backdrop of firearm-related controversies within the South African Police Service . <p> Recent dismissals of police officers linked to missing firearms in Mitchells Plain station , crackdown on illegal firearms in Western Cape <p> Last week a memorial service was held for Constable Akho Ndzingo who was recently murdered in a shooting in Khayelitsha . A police firearm was reported as stolen after the memorial . ( Photo : SA Police Service / X ) <p> A police officer 's work firearm appears to have been stolen in Khayelitsha on the day he attended the memorial service of a fellow cop who had earlier been murdered in the suburb . <p> Daily Maverick understands that the officer , a member of the Public Order Police , gave a colleague a lift home following the service on 20 June . <p> While in the colleague 's house , the firearm might have been removed from beneath a seat in the vehicle that the officer had been driving . <h> Firearm theft investigation <p> On Monday , Western Cape police spokesperson Warrant Officer Joseph Swartbooi confirmed to Daily Maverick the incident was under investigation . <p> " A case of theft has been registered with Khayelitsha police for further investigation , " he said . <p> " An appeal is hereby made to anyone with information to please call CrimeStop on 08600 10111 . " <p> The case is one of several relating to firearms and the South African Police Service ( SAPS ) and comes at a time when officers are cracking down on illegal firearms . <p> It was not the first time this police station has been connected to a scandal involving missing firearms . <p> About seven years ago , 15 handguns disappeared from the station 's community service centre . A group of officers faced disciplinary action including suspensions and dismissals , but were later cleared of wrongdoing . <h> Gangster 's funeral <p> Meanwhile , police in the Western Cape are cracking down on illegal firearms . <p> Provincial police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Malcolm Pojie said on 22 June that national Public Order Police based in Cape Town had arrested a suspect in Strand and confiscated a " black Formula 9mm KRL " and a " black Glock 9mm . " <p> #sapsWC Members attached to the National POP based in Cape Town are making inroads in the fight against the proliferation of illegal firearms . Four firearms were confiscated on Saturday and suspects arrested for illegal possession of firearms and ammunition . #GunsOffTheStreets ML ... **26;2198;TOOLONG <h> Comments <p> " termid " : 387188 , " name " : " Maverick News " , " slug " : " maverick-news " , " termgroup " : 0 , " ... Africa " , " slug " : " south-africa " , " termgroup " : 0 , ... Maverick is an independent online news publication and weekly print newspaper in South Africa. rnrnIt is known for breaking some of the defining stories of South Africa in the past decade , including the Marikana Massacre , in which the South African Police Service killed 34 miners in August 2012. rnrnIt also investigated the Gupta Leaks , which won the 2019 Global Shining Light Award. rnrnThat investigation was credited with exposing the Indian-born Gupta family and former President Jacob Zuma for their role in the systemic political corruption referred to as state capture. rnrnIn 2018 , co-founder and editor-in-chief Branislav u2018Brankou2019 Brkic was awarded the countryu2019s prestigious Nat Nakasa Award , recognised for initiating the investigative collaboration after receiving the hard drive that included the email tranche. rnrnIn 2021 , co-founder and CEO Styli Charalambous also received the award. rnrnDaily Maverick covers the latest political and news developments in South Africa with breaking news updates , analysis , opinions and more . " , " parent " : 0 , " count " : 47369 , " filter " : " raw ... The families of Frik Potgieter and Peter Huxham , two South Africans held in Equatorial Guinea , have turned to the Pan-African Parliament for help , as the men remain caught in a diplomatic feud that has left loved ones yearning for their return . <p> PAP Bureau to review petition and advise on next steps in ' Free Frik and Peter ' campaign <p> Supporters protest outside PAP as families appeal for help in freeing the two South Africans <p> Potgieter and Huxham , held for 501 days , caught in diplomatic tensions between South Africa and Equatorial Guinea <p> Kathy McConnahie ( 65 ) during an interview about her partner , Peter Huxham ( 55 ) who is being held in Equatorial Guinea . ( Photo : Gallo Images / Rapport / Edrea du Toit ) <p> The families of Frik Potgieter ( 54 ) and Peter Huxham ( 55 ) , two South Africans who have been " unlawfully " jailed in Equatorial Guinea since 9 February 2023 , have delivered a formal request to the president of the Pan-African Parliament ( PAP ) , Chief Fortune Charumbira , asking the institution to intervene to secure the men 's urgent release . <p> Potgieter 's wife , Sonja Potgieter , and Huxham 's fianc ? e , Kathy McConnachie , handed over the written request to the PAP 's third vice-president , L ? cia Maria Mendes , at the PAP in Midrand on Monday . A representative of the family said Mendes had acknowledged receipt of the memo , expressed concern and told them the PAP would be seized with the matter and would get back to them . <p> Jolene Potgieter ( 23 ) during an interview in Cape Town about her father , Frik Potgieter ( 54 ) who is being held in Equatorial Guinea . ( Photo : Gallo Images / Rapport / Edrea du Toit ) <p> " The petition was received today by the third vice-president , deployed by the president , on behalf of the PAP Bureau as the opening ceremony was still taking place , " PAP spokesperson Jeff Onganga confirmed to Daily Maverick . <p> " The next step is for the bureau to meet , read and fully understand the content of the petition . It will then advise the family on what it thinks should be the way forward . Given the full day today Monday , the bureau will probably meet tomorrow , " he added . <p> He explained that the PAP Bureau comprised the president and the four vice-presidents , together representing the five regions of Africa . <p> Outside the building , supporters of the two men staged a demonstration , protesting at their detention and demanding their release . <p> The Pan-African Parliament is the legislative and oversight arm of the African Union . The request was handed over at the official opening of the 3rd Ordinary Session of the Sixth Parliament . <p> A protest highlighting the plight of Frik Potgieter and Peter Huxham . ( Photo : Supplied ) <p> Shaun Murphy , a spokesperson for the Potgieter family , said : " Frik and Peter are citizens of the African continent , where they have lived and worked all their lives . The Pan-African Parliament 's mandate is to protect the human rights of all the continent 's citizens , and we are therefore humbly asking for their assistance in freeing these two innocent men from unlawful imprisonment in Equatorial Guinea . <p> " Frik and Peter are beloved fathers , partners , grandfathers and pillars of both their families and their communities . For their families , every passing day without them is an eternity of missed moments and cherished memories that can never be regained . Their loved ones want them to come home . " <p> Potgieter and Huxham , qualified engineers , were working in Equatorial Guinea for a global oil and gas company when they were arrested on what their families insist were fabricated drug-related charges , in February last year . <p> Their arrests took place just two days after South African authorities seized a luxury superyacht belonging to Equatorial Guinea 's vice-president , Teodoro Nguema Obiang Mangue . <p> Earlier , South Africa had seized Obiang 's two luxury Cape Town villas . These assets were seized to execute a court order that they should be sold to realise financial compensation for South African businessman Daniel Janse van Rensburg for his unlawful detention in Equatorial Guinea in 2013 for about 500 days . The case is completely unrelated to that of Potgieter and Huxham but it is clear Obiang had them arrested to exact revenge simply because they are South African . <p> Even though the superyacht has been released , the villas remain impounded in South Africa , and the men had remained in prison in Equatorial Guinea for 501 days as of Monday . <p> In May , the minister of international relations and cooperation , Naledi Pandor , raised the issue when she visited Equatorial Guinea to meet her counterpart Sime ? n Oyono Esono Ang ? e and President Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo . <p> " Minister Pandor took advantage of her presence in Equatorial Guinea to raise with the authorities South Africa 's concerns regarding the incarceration of two South African citizens in the country , " her department said in a statement then . <p> " The minister reiterated South Africa 's plea to the government of Equatorial Guinea for the release of the incarcerated South African citizens . Engagements on this matter are continuing . " <p> Pretoria has said nothing further on the outcome of the engagements . <p> A family representative said the two men had been caught in the diplomatic crossfire between South Africa and Equatorial Guinea . She said they had appealed for the Pan-African Parliament 's intervention , " noting that its mandate is a platform for people from all African states to be involved in discussions and decision-making on the problems and challenges facing the continent ; and that it is mandated to promote human rights and the rule of law by all AU organs , regional economic communities ... and member states . <p> " Today , the families specifically called on the PAP -- both the plenary and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights -- to be seized of this case , that they investigate the matter , and that they advocate for the immediate release of these two innocent African citizens , who have been caught in a dispute between two African nation-states . " <p> The families previously said Potgieter and Huxham were effectively being held " hostage " , suggesting the ransom that Vice-President Obiang demands is the return of his Cape Town villas . <p> Last week , the families launched an online petition , website and social media campaign to share their story and demand the two men 's urgent release . <h> Comments <p> " termid " : 29 , " name " : " South Africa " , " slug " : " south-africa " , " termgroup " : 0 , ... Maverick is an independent online news publication and weekly print newspaper in South Africa. rnrnIt is known for breaking some of the defining stories of South Africa in the past decade , including the Marikana Massacre , in which the South African Police Service killed 34 miners in August 2012. rnrnIt also investigated the Gupta Leaks , which won the 2019 Global Shining Light Award. rnrnThat investigation was credited with exposing the Indian-born Gupta family and former President Jacob Zuma for their role in the systemic political corruption referred to as state capture. rnrnIn 2018 , co-founder and editor-in-chief Branislav u2018Brankou2019 Brkic was awarded the countryu2019s prestigious Nat Nakasa Award , recognised for initiating the investigative collaboration after receiving the hard drive that included the email tranche. rnrnIn 2021 , co-founder and CEO Styli Charalambous also received the award. rnrnDaily Maverick covers the latest political and news developments in South Africa with breaking news updates , analysis , opinions and more . " , " parent " : 0 , " count " : 47369 , " filter " : " raw ... The GNU had better work for the ANC and DA , or else <p> Amidst the whirlwind of political shifts , the future hangs in the balance as the ANC and DA navigate a precarious partnership , leaving many wondering if this unlikely alliance will stand the test of time , while the enigmatic MK and strategic EFF add further layers of unpredictability to South Africa 's political landscape . <p> ANC and DA credibility at stake as they navigate new government dynamics . <p> Potential impact of coalition agreements on political landscape , with local government posing significant test . <p> MK 's role and EFF 's strategy crucial factors in shaping political landscape . <p> ( Illustrative image : Midjourney AI Figma ) <p> So much has changed over the past few weeks that it is difficult to determine with certainty what the major variables of the next few years will be . That said , some important questions are now emerging , the answers to which could determine much of our lived reality . <p> Obviously the most important variable is whether the new government actually works , and it depends on the ability of the various parties , and their leaders , to move forward together . <p> The ANC and the DA have already put their credibility on the line with their agreement . As Rise Mzansi leader Songezo Zibi put it during the National Assembly sitting last Friday , the two " are joined at the hip now " . Also , the text of the agreement between them seems unlikely to have been agreed to in the short time between the proclamation of the elections and the announcement of the agreement -- this had to be a longer background process , and appears to be a culmination of such a process . <p> This may also indicate that both parties would probably work quite hard to stay in government together . <p> Also , both have much to fear from the consequences of this agreement falling apart . That could invite either the EFF or MK into government , which could seriously damage the ANC , and the DA , whose continuous support of the deal would become simply impossible , particularly the voters , were explicitly told it wanted to keep Zuma 's and Malema 's parties out of government . <p> Even if their government does not make much progress , they could remain locked in an unhappy marriage for some time . <p> If they remain in , other parties with something to fear from the EFF and MK , such as the IFP , would want to remain a part of it for some time as well . <p> Probably the biggest test of this coalition though will be at local government level . <p> Currently , the ANC is working with the IFP and the DA in national government , and in KwaZulu-Natal ( with the NFP ) , while in Gauteng the DA seconded the nomination of Panyaza Lesufi as premier . <p> But the ANC is in an informal working relationship with the EFF in Joburg and Ekurhuleni . <p> While much is possible in our politics , it would seem almost unworkable for the ANC to work with the DA in two spheres of government and with the EFF in the third for a long period . <p> Also , if the current arrangement persists , it would inevitably lead to parties in the national and provincial coalitions having to campaign against each other in the local elections next year . <p> It would surely be easier to work together in all three spheres of government now , with an eye to possibly working together in those elections ( the working relationship between the DA and the IFP in KZN before this election may provide a useful precedent for this ) . <p> Either way , the issue of local government can not be ignored by the parties in the national coalition . <p> Perhaps the second-biggest variable over the next few years is the behaviour of MK . <p> So little is known about the people in its caucuses , or about how it makes decisions , that it can be difficult to predict if it will be a coherent opposition in Parliament and continue to grow , or if it could just implode . <p> The former interim secretary-general , Sihle Ngubane , said publicly that every single decision was made by former president Jacob Zuma . But no one person can make every decision for a political party on a sustainable basis . The recent history of the EFF may well be proof of this . <p> The appointment of the impeached judge John Hlophe as Chief Whip in the National Assembly may also play a role . While no one can doubt Hlophe 's intellectual prowess , running a caucus is completely different to sitting on the Bench . And he has no track record of managing politicians who have aspirations of their own . <p> But equally , the fact that MK was able to win so much support in the elections in such a short time also suggests proper organisation . <p> This makes this variable difficult to predict . <p> Perhaps the next most important variable is the strategy of the EFF . <p> During last Friday 's National Assembly sitting , Malema said publicly that he would no longer disrupt Parliament , and would instead oppose the coalition government using parliamentary conventions . <p> After the election of Cyril Ramaphosa as President , he made the point that he accepted the outcome , an important signal of his new strategy . <p> With so many former opposition parties now in the coalition government , and presuming that most MK MPs will be completely new to the job , the EFF could take the lead in providing oversight . <p> It may fall to Malema , and his MPs , to ensure the new government does not abuse the political power it now has . <p> If he is able to do this well , and if the coalition government makes mistakes and , if MK implodes , Malema may emerge from this period with his political power much enhanced . <p> Of course , it may be that the coalition government provides few opportunities for him to do this , or that MK does not implode , or that he is unable to change his strategy . <p> One of the more interesting variables could be what some of the newer smaller parties , based around what could be described as a new , urban South African identity , decide to do . <p> It seems likely that Rise Mzansi , Bosa and ActionSA all competed among the same pool of voters . Already there has been at least one public suggestion for the three to merge . <p> It now appears that Rise Mzansi is going to join the coalition government , which may make such a merger impossible . But if these parties based around this urban identity do work together , they could have a louder voice ( particularly if both MK and the EFF are unable to provide proper opposition ) . <p> While there are many reasons to believe that this group of parties can not work together over the longer term , the fact is they will all be judged by voters . They have decided to go into this coalition of their own accord , knowing the risks . And just this factor alone , that they will all suffer if it fails , could provide enough motivation to force them to work together constructively . DM <h> Comments <p> " termid " : 387188 , " name " : " Maverick News " , " slug " : " maverick-news " , " termgroup " : 0 , " ... Africa " , " slug " : " south-africa " , " termgroup " : 0 , ... Maverick is an independent online news publication and weekly print newspaper in South Africa. rnrnIt is known for breaking some of the defining stories of South Africa in the past decade , including the Marikana Massacre , in which the South African Police Service killed 34 miners in August 2012. rnrnIt also investigated the Gupta Leaks , which won the 2019 Global Shining Light Award. rnrnThat investigation was credited with exposing the Indian-born Gupta family and former President Jacob Zuma for their role in the systemic political corruption referred to as state capture. rnrnIn 2018 , co-founder and editor-in-chief Branislav u2018Brankou2019 Brkic was awarded the countryu2019s prestigious Nat Nakasa Award , recognised for initiating the investigative collaboration after receiving the hard drive that included the email tranche. rnrnIn 2021 , co-founder and CEO Styli Charalambous also received the award. rnrnDaily Maverick covers the latest political and news developments in South Africa with breaking news updates , analysis , opinions and more . " , " parent " : 0 , " count " : 47369 , " filter " : " raw ... DA raises red flag over new Limpopo MECs linked to VBS and New York building sagas <p> The DA in Limpopo has red-flagged the appointment of two of the 10 MEC 's appointed by premier Phophi Ramathuba last week . <p> Phophi Ramathuba is sworn in as Limpopo premier during the seventh sitting of the provincial legislature on 14 June 2024 . ( Photo : Jairus Mmutle / GCIS ) <p> On Tuesday , 10 MECs -- an equal split between men and women -- were sworn in before Limpopo Judge President George Phatudi at the Ranch Hotel outside Polokwane . Among them was Kgabo Mahoai , former acting director-general in the Department of International Relations and Cooperation who has been appointed MEC in the provincial treasury . <p> He was dismissed by the department after he was allegedly involved in the irregular authorisation of the purchase of a piece of land in New York for R118-million . Mahoai is challenging his dismissal at the CCMA and at the Labour Court . <p> In a statement issued by the DA in the Limpopo legislature , the party 's caucus leader , Lindy Wilson , raised the red flag : " More concerning is the appointment of Kgabo Mahoai as the MEC of treasury . Mahoai was axed by the Directorate of International Relations and Cooperation for an irregular expenditure of R118-million to obtain land in New York , which never materialised . Mahoai has now been given the cookie jar of the province and will manage its finances . Clearly , he is an unsuitable candidate given his history . " <p> Wilson also questioned the redeployment of ANC provincial deputy chairperson Florence Radzilani . The former MEC for transport and community safety under premier Stanley Mathabatha , Radzilani has been reappointed by Ramathuba to be the MEC for social development . " Re-elected Florence Radzilani , as MEC for social development , is a red flag for the DA . Radzilani was called out on the VBS heist in an ongoing investigation , but she is called upon to manage a critical portfolio with a large budget , " said Wilson . <p> The Office of the Premier indicated it has noted the labour relations matter between Mahoai and his erstwhile employer , the Department of International Relations and Cooperation . Limpopo provincial government spokesperson Ndavhe Ramakuela said the premier is convinced that there is nothing wrong with his appointment . <p> " The province further noted that the process is still continuing where Mr Mohoai is challenging the validity of his dismissal through arbitration and subsequently the Labour Court . The premier is convinced that since Mr Mahoai has not been charged for corruption , or criminally charged on the matter , there is nothing in law that prevents his appointment to the Executive Council , " said Ramakuela . <p> For years Limpopo has been making headlines in connection with the collapse of Venda Mutual Bank ( VBS ) . Some municipalities invested millions in the bank , an exercise which was found by the South African Reserve Bank to be unlawful . Several officials from various municipalities were charged and arrested , while others are part of court processes . <p> Radzilani was mayor of Vhembe District Municipality when the council invested R300-million in VBS . The money was later recovered . She stepped aside and was later cleared , although investigations into the saga continue . <h> Youngest member <p> A 35-year-old ANC Youth League chairperson in Limpopo , Ernest Rachoene , is the youngest MEC in the new executive . Four of the members served at the previous cabinet under former premier Mathabatha , while six are new . The latter are from the ANC as the governing party in the province . Sixty-two members of the Limpopo legislature were sworn in last week . <p> Rachoene , who hails from Ga-Mphahlele tribal area outside Lebowakgomo , said as MEC for roads and public works he would prioritise fixing potholes , road maintenance and construction throughout the province . <h> First woman premier <p> Ramathuba , a medical doctor by profession , made history this week when she was named the first female premier since democracy in Limpopo . <p> Her cabinet has been described by many as a balanced gender-equity executive which includes young people . <p> At the presentation of her executive Ramathuba said : " The individuals I have appointed to the executive council bring a wealth of experience , dedication and a deep commitment to serving our people . They have been selected for their proven track record , their expertise in their respective fields , and their unwavering commitment to the values and principles that underpin our democracy . " <p> The new executive members are : <p> Mavhungu Lerule Ramakhanya ( education ) ; <p> Mashego Dieketseng Masesi ( health ) ; <p> Basikop Makamu ( cooperative governance , human settlements and traditional affairs . Makamu is also the deputy secretary of the ANC in Limpopo ; <p> Florence Radzilani ( social development ) . She is deputy chairperson of the ANC in Limpopo ; <p> Jerry Maseko ( sport , arts and culture ) , who is former regional secretary of the ANC in the Sekhukhune district ; <p> Kgabo Mahoai ( provincial treasury ) , who was one of senior managers in the Department of International Relations ; <p> Ernest Rachoene ( public works ) ; <p> Grace Nakedi Kekana ( agriculture ) . She is also treasurer of the ANC in Limpopo ; <h> Basic services needed <p> EFF Limpopo chairperson Lawrence Mapaulo said his party congratulates the new MECs and wishes them well . He said what the EFF wants is for ordinary residents of Limpopo to receive basic services such as water , and jobs . <p> The biggest public sector trade union , Nehawu , also congratulated the new members of the executive . Provincial spokesperson Mosses Maubane said his union hopes they will work together with employees to take basic services to communities . <p> Public administration students from the Tshwane University of Technology 's Polokwane campus , Adam Mphahlele and Mpho Mofefe , said they were happy that the executive includes young people . <p> That MEC Rachoane chairs the ANC Youth League gave them hope that the aspirations of young people would be catered for . <p> " As young people we also want to have contracts within government departments so that we can create jobs , " they said . <h> Comments <p> " termid " : 29 , " name " : " South Africa " , " slug " : " south-africa " , " termgroup " : 0 , ... Maverick is an independent online news publication and weekly print newspaper in South Africa. rnrnIt is known for breaking some of the defining stories of South Africa in the past decade , including the Marikana Massacre , in which the South African Police Service killed 34 miners in August 2012. rnrnIt also investigated the Gupta Leaks , which won the 2019 Global Shining Light Award. rnrnThat investigation was credited with exposing the Indian-born Gupta family and former President Jacob Zuma for their role in the systemic political corruption referred to as state capture. rnrnIn 2018 , co-founder and editor-in-chief Branislav u2018Brankou2019 Brkic was awarded the countryu2019s prestigious Nat Nakasa Award , recognised for initiating the investigative collaboration after receiving the hard drive that included the email tranche. rnrnIn 2021 , co-founder and CEO Styli Charalambous also received the award. rnrnDaily Maverick covers the latest political and news developments in South Africa with breaking news updates , analysis , opinions and more . " , " parent " : 0 , " count " : 47369 , " filter " : " raw ... How and why I plan to support the Government of National Unity ( Part One ) <p> In the ongoing saga of the Government of National Unity ( GNU ) , hopes are high for a democratic revival in South Africa , yet the rocky road ahead is littered with political landmines , from disputes over party rights to Cabinet appointments , prompting a crucial need for unity , compromise , and performance evaluation to ensure the GNU 's success and stability in a time when economic confidence hangs in the balance . <p> Part One in a two-part series explores the fragile nature of the Government of National Unity ( GNU ) in South Africa . <p> Disputes over the President 's powers and Cabinet appointments are threatening the unity of the GNU , with tensions between the ANC and DA . <p> The need for consultative decision-making and appointing capable individuals is crucial for the success of the GNU . <p> Balancing party interests with the need for stability and economic confidence is key for the GNU 's effectiveness . <p> President Cyril Ramaphosa shakes hands with DA leader John Steenhuisen after he accepted the nomination on 14 June to be President of South Africa . ( Photo : Phando Jikelo / Parliament of SA ) <p> Watching developments in the Government of National Unity ( GNU ) over the recent period , I remain hopeful that it will represent a new opportunity for recovering , developing and consolidating democracy in South Africa ( this article takes up issuesraised earlier in Daily Maverick . ) <p> There are nevertheless -- every second day -- moments that seem like crises that could lead to the dissolution of the entire project . One of thosewas a dispute over the ANC 's right or the President 's right to admit parties into the GNU without consulting other parties who are members , and there were fairly aggressive exchanges between DA Federal Chair Helen Zille and ANC Secretary-General Fikile Mbalula ( Mbalula 's exchanges with DA leader John Steenhuisen had been less heated and more flexible . ) <p> That crisis is re-emerging in a different form in relation to the appointment of Cabinet ministers , with disputes over the powers of the President and what level and character of representation the DA as the second-largest ( minority ) party , after the ANC , is entitled to have . ( SeePeter Bruce in the Sunday Times , behind paywall ) . <p> My sense is that there are some people who may be less aware of the fragile nature of this unity and the importance of maintaining and building the unity . Consequently , they are willing to speak publicly on an ad hoc basis and create risks . Equally , the ANC needs to be more consultative and have a better appreciation of its changed status in relation to other parties , especially the DA . <p> I think it 's very important to move slowly in this phase of developing unity and be willing to make compromises , and for the President , in constituting the Cabinet , to understand that it 's not simply a case of what the Constitution says is the right of the President . <p> It must be seen as that right in the context of a weakening of the ANC 's base and the need to retain the support of the GNU partners , especially the DA with the second-largest number of votes , and make the appointments while taking that fully into account ( see Peter Bruce above ) . <p> One has to appoint people who are suited to the job and command support . However , it sometimes means that some people who may be veterans in one or another party , particularly the ANC , need to be evaluated in terms of what they have done , how they have done their work , and whether it will help or hinder the work of the GNU to keep them in a specific position or put them in the Cabinet . <p> One case that comes to mind is that of Gwede Mantashe , who was named in the Zondo Commission for having had free security installed in three homes , and other irregularities ( seeCarol Paton : this appears to be behind a paywall ) . <p> Outa fingers Mantashe , Transport Minister Sindisiwe Chikunga and Blade Nzimande , Minister of Higher Education in the last Cabinet and chair of the SACP , for non-performance . <p> We have to ask ourselves not just what will unite the parties within the GNU , or who may resist offering positions to the DA and others . What will keep the ANC and its allies " happy " can not be decisive in governmental decisions if what is required to keep them contented will destroy the operation and realisation of the objectives of the programme of the GNU . <p> There must be a discussion between the parties to make it clear that this has to be a consultative and functioning GNU . <p> A functioning GNU delivers on its objectives and that has to supersede the sensibilities of certain individuals , in some cases . The aim is not to snub people who have made contributions of one or other type for very long . The goal is to make the GNU work , and it can not afford to make avoidable mistakes with non-performers . <p> It may not be part of the language of some who derive from the left , as I do , but what the " markets " think is important for stability in a time when investments are low and confidence in our economy has to be re-established . <p> Words like " stability " are not part of the language that many of us are accustomed to using , but that word is exactly what is needed now and that means there is a need to " stomach " the adequate representation ( ie related to its electoral performance in a similar way to the ANC ) of the DA . <p> That appears to be what " markets " want , according to reports from market observers . There was considerable market support for an arrangement for a unified government between the ANC and DA . The notion of stability when attached to the DA has evoked even more protests on social media . In truth , it is only the DA that has the power to provide the support to the ANC that is needed in a government of minorities and hence ensure stability . <h> Despair , disillusionment and hope <p> Recently , large numbers of South Africans , members of the electorate , were disillusioned or very unhappy about the situation in the country . Many did not vote or even register to vote . And even if they did n't use words like disillusionment or despair , they could see no path out of the crisis of post-apartheid South Africa and the collapse of the promise that the ANC once held -- for me and very many other people . <p> I have not used terms like despair or disillusionment . I 've often argued that we must find a way of creating a different state of mind ; looking at where we are in the South African situation , and what we can do in that situation , with or without cooperation with existing political parties and organisations . <p> It may have been correct to combat despair , but what was lacking was a vehicle for those who despaired to channel their energies , and I had not been able to point to that until now . <p> The emergence of the GNU in the wake of the shocking ( but in some ways expected ) election results -- where the ANC was battered and received only 40% of the vote -- has created a sense of hope for many people . <p> I 'm not using the word optimism . I 'm speaking of hope . Optimism and pessimism refer to states of mind which some people have and other people do n't have . And it just happens that one may always have an optimistic " positive " state of mind . The mindset derives independently of any action that the individual might take ( see my article here ) . <p> The notion of hope refers to a situation where a condition exists where it 's possible to bring about changes through the agency of individuals and/or organised bodies of people . <p> In the context of South Africa today , the context is one of crisis : a crisis of democracy , the economy , social welfare , inequality , and on a range of other fronts -- legality , criminality and so forth . The recognition of the crisis leading to forming a GNU is the context for hope that needs to be realised . <p> My sense is that thestatement of intent and theinaugural address of President Cyril Ramaphosa are pitched in terms that are open to debate . They are all phrased in terms that are meant to indicate the aspiration for a broader and deeper democracy , but those terms are themselves contested ; their meanings are open to further debate . Their validity may also be contested ( I will return to this in later articles , as one of the reasons to hope for regeneration of democratic life ) . <p> So when we say , or I say , that we have an opportunity to emerge from a situation where we saw little hope of transformation , it does n't mean that that process of emerging is complete or has even started in a significant way . <p> What I think it means is that we need to identify commonalities , and there is already this commonality in the statement of intent . We need to safeguard that unity behind the statement of intent . One of the best ways of safeguarding it is to build the unity and take it further . <p> And the way to take it further is by intense discussions among the component parts , organisations that are members , but also engagement over these with society as a whole . <p> The statement of intent may have been signed by the parties that have joined the GNU , but it remains very important to involve the public in interpretation of this document , and what the President said in his inaugural address . <p> Let us inject our hopes , aspirations , needs and areas of unhappiness into engaging with the interpretation . It 's not just for the leaders to give that interpretation . We as members of the public , located in a range of different places , need to ensure that what we think is important becomes part of the considerations in the development of a process of realisation of this GNU and its objectives . <p> We do n't have to wait to be invited . It is our right if we belong to a constituency . We all do belong in an intense or lesser way to one or more constituencies or potentially organised groups with particular ways of interpreting the Constitution of South Africa -- the human rights that are entrenched in that Constitution -- and are also part of the people for whom the objectives of the GNU are intended . <p> All of us who have this location or potential location , and by virtue of being South African citizens or inhabitants ( I prefer " inhabitants " who are supposed to enjoy most of the rights , because I include people of non-South African origin , unlike at least one party to the GNU , the Patriotic Alliance ) , we have an inherent location . The question is whether it is active or passive , purely observer or also a participant . <p> We have n't been invited to participate , but we have that right and we must use that right and inject what we believe are the meanings into the future . DM <p> This article originally appeared on Creamer Media 's website:polity.org.za <h> Comments <p> " termid " : 29 , " name " : " South Africa " , " slug " : " south-africa " , " termgroup " : 0 , ... Maverick is an independent online news publication and weekly print newspaper in South Africa. rnrnIt is known for breaking some of the defining stories of South Africa in the past decade , including the Marikana Massacre , in which the South African Police Service killed 34 miners in August 2012. rnrnIt also investigated the Gupta Leaks , which won the 2019 Global Shining Light Award. rnrnThat investigation was credited with exposing the Indian-born Gupta family and former President Jacob Zuma for their role in the systemic political corruption referred to as state capture. rnrnIn 2018 , co-founder and editor-in-chief Branislav u2018Brankou2019 Brkic was awarded the countryu2019s prestigious Nat Nakasa Award , recognised for initiating the investigative collaboration after receiving the hard drive that included the email tranche. rnrnIn 2021 , co-founder and CEO Styli Charalambous also received the award. rnrnDaily Maverick covers the latest political and news developments in South Africa with breaking news updates , analysis , opinions and more . " , " parent " : 0 , " count " : 47369 , " filter " : " raw ... Citizen " , " slug " : " maverick-citizen " , " termgrou ... Relic of the past -- Eastern Cape storm uncovers what could be a historical find <p> East London Museum scientist Kevin Cole stumbled upon a piece of shipwreck treasure off Chintsa Beach during his holiday , speculating it could be part of the ill-fated Italian vessel Nuovo Abele , adding a splash of maritime mystery to his coastal erosion research . <p> East London museum scientist Kevin Cole with the piece of timber found on Chintsa Beach in East London . ( Photo : Supplied ) <p> A coastal storm helped East London Museum scientist Kevin Cole uncover what he believes is a piece of a ship that sank 150 years ago off Chintsa Beach in East London . <p> Cole has been involved in a study into increased coastal erosion along the South African coast . Shipwreck timber has been found in eroding dunes and Cole said storm surges were bringing new treasures to land from the sandy bottom of Chintsa Bay . <p> Yellow circles drawn on the piece of wood found in the Eastern Cape believed to be from a Portuguese shipwreck , show where experts found wooden trunnels ( pegs ) used to fasten timber . ( Photo : Supplied ) <p> Yellow circles show where bronze spikes are found in the wood , believed to be from a Portuguese shipwreck . ( Photo : Supplied ) <p> " But I am on holiday , " he said , telling of his find , a large piece of timber . " So this is just an old codger who found an important piece of timber . " <p> Jokes aside , Cole believes the timber could be part of the hull of the ill-fated Italian vessel the Nuovo Abele . <p> Cole said there were records of two shipwrecks at Chintsa Mouth . In 1647 , the Nossa Senhora de Atalaia , a Portuguese trade ship on her way to Lisbon , sank off the coast near Chintsa . <p> The Atalaia had anchored in Chintsa Bay for repairs , but took on so much water that she sank . About 200 passengers and crew members survived the wreck . The wreck 's guns and bronze cannon were salvaged in 1980 and are on display in the East London Museum . <p> The other was the Italian wooden barque Nuovo Abele that sank at the mouth of the Chintsa River in 1874 while en route to London with a cargo of sugar . The 13 crew members were rescued when Frontier Armed Mounted Police swam a line out to the wreck . Pieces of the Nuovo Abele were uncovered after storm surges in 2015 and 2020 . <p> A stone-aged tool East London museum scientist Kevin Cole found on the beach at Chintsa is believed to be between 280,000 and 25,000 years old . ( Photo : Supplied ) <p> In his 2015 report to the South African Heritage Association , Cole wrote that a previous piece of the ship that had been found after storm surges , measured 3.23m from tip to tip , with the widest portion measuring 67cm . <p> " An assumption is that the material could be from the 1874 ship the Nuovo Abele ( Nova Bella ) grounded in Chintsa Bay . If it is the Nuovo Abele , this ship was built in 1873 and weighed 690 tons . It was captained by Cuneo Francisco and was wrecked during a southwest gale on the 6th December 1874 . It was on a voyage from Batavia ( Jakarta ) to London with a cargo of sugar . The condition of the artefact is the same as it was found and is under the curatorial regime of the museum conservator as directed , " Cole said in his report . <p> In 2020 , Cole wrote an article for the East London Museum when more pieces of the Nuovo Abele were found . <p> The new find also has the " tell-tale signs " of wooden and square bronze spikes , he said . <p> He said the ship had been broken up by the sea in the more than a century that it had been underwater . <p> " I have secured the timber safely , " he said about his most recent find . <p> The procedure now is to mark the GPS coordinates where the timber was found and apply for it to be removed for study and conservation . <p> " It needs to go for conservation . This takes a long time . I am excited about this find because of its size . It is about my height . Of course , our first question would be : Where does it come from now ? " DM <h> Comments <p> " termid " : 29 , " name " : " South Africa " , " slug " : " south-africa " , " termgroup " : 0 , ... Maverick is an independent online news publication and weekly print newspaper in South Africa. rnrnIt is known for breaking some of the defining stories of South Africa in the past decade , including the Marikana Massacre , in which the South African Police Service killed 34 miners in August 2012. rnrnIt also investigated the Gupta Leaks , which won the 2019 Global Shining Light Award. rnrnThat investigation was credited with exposing the Indian-born Gupta family and former President Jacob Zuma for their role in the systemic political corruption referred to as state capture. rnrnIn 2018 , co-founder and editor-in-chief Branislav u2018Brankou2019 Brkic was awarded the countryu2019s prestigious Nat Nakasa Award , recognised for initiating the investigative collaboration after receiving the hard drive that included the email tranche. rnrnIn 2021 , co-founder and CEO Styli Charalambous also received the award. rnrnDaily Maverick covers the latest political and news developments in South Africa with breaking news updates , analysis , opinions and more . " , " parent " : 0 , " count " : 47369 , " filter " : " raw ... Maverick " , " slug " : " business-maverick " , " termgr ... MultiChoice continues to lose subscribers and money on its DStv platform ( a big driver of its revenue ) , especially in South Africa . This increasingly threatens MultiChoice 's solvency and calls into question its ability to operate without a financial bailout from Canal+ , France 's broadcasting conglomerate . <p> MutiChoice 's mounting financial and operational problems have vindicated investors who sold their shares , with Canal+ buying shares at R125 per share in a R35-billion deal to take over the company . <p> Subscribers and revenue for MutiChoice 's DStv platform are declining , especially in South Africa , raising concerns about the company 's solvency without a financial bailout from Canal+ . <p> South Africa 's economic challenges and competition from streaming services like Netflix are contributing to MutiChoice 's subscriber losses , with the company facing its worst-ever financial loss of R4.1-billion . <p> Investment community shares concerns about MutiChoice 's future in the face of economic headwinds , regulatory challenges and governance issues , prompting some asset managers to sell their shares . <p> ( Photo : Multichoice ) <p> Mounting financial and operational problems faced by MutiChoice have left some investors feeling vindicated by their decision to shed their investments in the pay-TV company . <p> The timing of the decision by Canal+ to buy the shares of MutiChoice investors at R125 per share -- in a deal worth R35-billion to take over the local company -- has been described by some as " perfect " . <p> " Not only is the timing perfect , but it feels like we were rescued from a sinking ship , " quipped one Johannesburg-based asset manager , who was a long-time backer of MultiChoice but has now sold out from his position . <p> These views are arguably becoming widely shared in the investment community after MultiChoice recently revealed a horror show regarding its financial and operational situation . <p> In short , MultiChoice continues to lose subscribers and money on its DStv platform ( a big driver of its revenue ) , especially in South Africa . This increasingly threatens MultiChoice 's solvency and calls into question its ability to operate without a financial bailout from Canal+ , France 's broadcasting conglomerate . <p> During the 12 months ending March 2024 , the number of paying MultiChoice subscribers in South Africa and other parts of Africa fell by 9% or 1.6 million customers to reach 17.3 million ( compared to 15.7 million during the same period in 2022 ) . <p> Over the past year , MultiChoice has lost 409,000 subscribers in South Africa and 1.2 million subscribers in the rest of Africa ( making up the 1.6 million lost subscribers ) . <p> The worst-performing operations were in Nigeria , Angola and Zambia , markets that have all experienced high inflation and currency volatility in the past year . <h> Pressure in South Africa <p> For the first time in years , the number of MultiChoice 's subscribers in South Africa is below eight million -- 7.9 million , to be exact . The company is losing customers in all income segments -- even the premium tier that comprises consumers who are usually considered to be well-heeled and insulated from financial pressures . <p> Competition for these consumers and their wallets is intense as they can generally afford not only DStv and Showmax subscriptions ( Showmax is owned by MultiChoice ) but also subscriptions to Netflix , Amazon Prime and other streaming services . <p> The premium tier , which includes the DStv Premium and Compact Plus bouquets , saw the number of subscribers decline by 8% in South Africa , resulting in MultiChoice having only 1.8 million active subscribers ( those having a subscription for more than 90 days ) . <p> Other segments , which MultiChoice deems affordable and attracting the low-to-middle income sector , are also seeing a decline in subscriber numbers . The mid-market base ( comprising the Compact package ) saw subscriber numbers decline by 9% , while the mass-market tier ( those subscribing to the entry-level packages ) was 2% lower . <p> MultiChoice has blamed two factors for the drop in numbers . <p> First , consumers face immense financial pressures , prompting them to cut their subscriptions to reduce household expenses . And second , the impact of Eskom 's rolling blackouts . MultiChoice believes consumers become reluctant to subscribe to DStv when the electricity supply is unreliable . <p> Some players expect MultiChoice 's problems in South Africa will only get worse . <h> Headwinds <p> Anthony Sedgwick , the cofounder of Abax Investments , told Daily Maverick : " We expect MultiChoice will continue to battle against the economic headwinds of operating in South Africa ; at least where the economy is not growing and they ca n't grow subscribers and will struggle to pass on cost increases to consumers in terms of increasing subscription prices . " <p> Abax Investments recently sold its shares in MultiChoice ( holding 0.34% of the company ) , taking advantage of the 25% share price jump since Canal+ initially tabled its buyout offer in February . <p> Sedgwick acknowledged that MultiChoice is " a great business that produces an incredible variety of content " , but added that the company 's weakness is that it operates in countries with unfriendly regulatory environments ( especially in the rest of Africa ) , with hard currency-priced content and broadcast costs . <p> Asief Mohamed , the chief investment officer of Aeon Investment Management , shared Sedgwick 's concerns about MultiChoice , adding that governance problems around the company had been a problem for a long time . Like Abax , Aeon also sold its MultiChoice shares . <p> But market watchers are emphatic that there is a third reason MultiChoice is often not willing to admit : There is intense competition in South Africa 's entertainment industry with the proliferation of content produced by players such as Netflix , Amazon Prime , Disney+ and others . <p> All three factors have created major financial problems for MultiChoice . Its financial loss ballooned to 42% during the 12 months ending March 2024 , reaching R4.1-billion ( from a loss of R2.9-billion in the previous year ) . It is the company 's worst-ever loss . <p> This has led to speculation that MultiChoice is technically insolvent because its total liabilities are worth more than its total assets . The value of the company 's total assets has come down from R47.6-billion in 2023 to R43.9-billion in 2024 , while liabilities have risen to more than R43-billion . <p> The technical insolvency does n't necessarily mean that MultiChoice is on the verge of financial collapse , because it can sell its other investments and assets to free up cash to pay down debt . It recently sold its insurance business , NMS Insurance Services , to Sanlam . <p> MultiChoice said it is also engaging lenders to ensure that its debt/borrowings are paid on time . However , its balance sheet has become uncomfortably riskier . This makes the case for MultiChoice needing Canal+ as its knight in shining armour . <p> MultiChoice 's growth strategy involves investing in local and international content for its streaming service , Showmax , and Canal+ is likely to provide capital to fund the growth . <p> Peter Takaendesa , the head of equities at Mergence Investment Managers , has argued that only companies with scale and a strong balance sheet are likely to survive changes in the entertainment industry . <p> " Canal+ and MultiChoice can leverage content and financial strength . However , there is still no guarantee of success , as the fight against global streaming giants is intense . " DM <h> Comments <p> " termid " : 341015 , " name " : " DM168 " , " slug " : " dm1 ... Africa " , " slug " : " south-africa " , " termgroup " : 0 , ... Maverick is an independent online news publication and weekly print newspaper in South Africa. rnrnIt is known for breaking some of the defining stories of South Africa in the past decade , including the Marikana Massacre , in which the South African Police Service killed 34 miners in August 2012. rnrnIt also investigated the Gupta Leaks , which won the 2019 Global Shining Light Award. rnrnThat investigation was credited with exposing the Indian-born Gupta family and former President Jacob Zuma for their role in the systemic political corruption referred to as state capture. rnrnIn 2018 , co-founder and editor-in-chief Branislav u2018Brankou2019 Brkic was awarded the countryu2019s prestigious Nat Nakasa Award , recognised for initiating the investigative collaboration after receiving the hard drive that included the email tranche. rnrnIn 2021 , co-founder and CEO Styli Charalambous also received the award. rnrnDaily Maverick covers the latest political and news developments in South Africa with breaking news updates , analysis , opinions and more . " , " parent " : 0 , " count " : 47369 , " filter " : " raw ... Maverick " , " slug " : " business-maverick " , " termgr ... Court order cuts through the corporate veil of Trillian companies funnelling Gupta SOE ' proceeds of crime ' <p> A Supreme Court of Appeal ( SCA ) ruling demonstrates the ex ? ? tent of judicial discretion when it comes to piercing the corporate veil of companies and spells out how Trillian director Eric Wood blatantly shuffled money be ? ? tween companies . <p> Lucinde Rhoodie , director of dispute resolution at Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr , says one of the sacred rules in South African business law is that companies are seen as separate from the people who own or run them . <p> This means that , in most cases , directors and shareholders are not personally responsible for a company 's debts . It also means that , even if companies are part of the same group , they are treated as separate entities . <p> However , as the SCA ruling at the end of March showed , if shareholders or directors do something illegal , the courts can decide to ignore this separation and treat all the companies in the group as if they 're just one big company . <p> In a case brought by Centaur Mining of South Africa against the liquidators of Trillian Management Consulting ( TMC ) , Trillian Capital Partners ( TCP ) , Trillian Securities , Trillian Nominees , Trillian Shared Services , Trillian Property , Trillian Financial Advisory ( TFA ) and Zara W ; the Master of the High Court Pretoria and the Companies and Intellectual Property Commission , the SCA dismissed Centaur 's appeal against a ruling that the companies were to be merged into one entity , affecting all subsidiaries , including one already in liquidation . <p> If you 're wondering why the Trillian names are ringing bells in your head , it 's because they were linked to the now infamous Guptas through their association with Wood , the Trillian director . <p> In 2022 , the National Prosecuting Authority said in court that the Gupta family 's proceeds of crime were laundered on a route through Centaur Ventures , Centaur Mining , Bank of Baroda and Optimum Coal , then back to the Bank of Baroda , back to Centaur Mining , back to Centaur Ventures and then to Optimum Coal again . <p> The Trillian companies were structured so that the Zara family trust owned 100% of Zara W , which in turn owned 100% of TCP , which owned 100% of all the other Trillian companies named in the order . Wood , a director of all the Trillian companies , was the founder , trustee and a beneficiary of the Zara family trust , with the other beneficiaries being his family members . <p> According to the SCA judgment handed down on 28 March : " During January 2020 the South African Revenue Service ( SARS ) formed the view that Mr Wood was treating the Trillian group of companies under his control as a mere extension of himself . He was at all relevant times responsible for the financial affairs of the companies but either failed to submit tax returns when due or submitted returns that contained incorrect declarations . <p> " It appeared to SARS that the preferred modus operandi of Mr Wood was to funnel funds through the various Trillian companies , thereby creating many layers between the original source of income and the final destination of the funds . <p> " Mr Wood , according to SARS 's investigation , would receive SOE state-owned enterprise funds in the hands of a Trillian company and the funds would subsequently be channelled to various other entities through the creation of what appears to have been fictitious invoices purportedly issued by another Trillian company which to all intents and purposes was not trading or conducting any form of business . " <p> Rhoodie says the SARS investigation , based on Wood failing to file his taxes , found that he treated the companies as personal extensions and used them to divert funds fraudulently from Eskom and Transnet . <p> " This verdict highlights that deceitful actions by shareholders and directors can no longer hide behind the shield of separate legal identities for group companies , " she says . However , she adds that the ruling does not change the law . <p> " The risk of separate legal identities being collapsed into one has always been there in the event of a director abusing a corporate entity ... The SCA ruling reaffirms the law and , for this to happen , you would have to prove that there was an unconscionable abuse of the juristic personality of the company as a separate entity , " she says . <p> Rhoodie adds that there has been a traditional view looking beyond a company to its shareholders and directors to hold them liable for debt . This judgment has not only collapsed the vertical structure but also the horizontal structure , knocking brother and sister companies all into one bucket . <p> After SARS applied for a preservation order , Cloete Murray was named as a curator . Murray then appointed a forensic investigator , Stephen Robinson , to investigate TMC and TCP . His first report showed that TMC had received R595.2-million from Eskom . " It TMC almost immediately dispersed that amount to other Trillian associated or connected companies , some of whom carried on no form of legitimate enterprise , " the judgment says . <p> After this came to light , the scope of Robinson 's investigation was expanded to include the other Trillian companies . He found that the Trillian companies were not only incorporated or used in a manner that constituted an unconscionable abuse of the juristic personality , but also that the companies conducted business fraudulently . <p> In June 2019 , the Gauteng High Court ordered TMC and TCP to repay Eskom R596-million , plus interest and costs . When this was not repaid , Eskom issued a liquidation application . At this point , Wood revealed that there was further litigation against the Trillian group , including these claims : <p> Transnet against Trillian Asset Management ( TAM ) and others for R93.5-million . <p> After TMC was found to be insolvent , the liquidators sought relief under Section 20 of the Companies Act , which states that , if there is unconscionable abuse of the juristic personality of a company as a separate entity , the court can declare that the company is deemed not to be a juristic person . <p> Centaur Mining then applied for a rescission order of the Section 20 ruling in 2021 , but the application was dismissed . The explanation for the application lies in a R400-million claim against Centaur Mining by the Trillian liquidators . <p> Wood was arrested in May 2022 . Daily Maverick tried to contact him for comment , but calls were not answered and WhatsApp messages were not replied to . DM <p> This story first appeared in our weekly Daily Maverick168 newspaper , which is available countrywide for R35 . <p> You may write a letter to the DM168 editor at email protected sharing your views on this story . Letters will be curated , edited and considered for publication in our weekly newspaper on our readers ' views page . <h> Comments <p> " termid " : 387188 , " name " : " Maverick News " , " slug " : " maverick-news " , " termgroup " : 0 , " ... Africa " , " slug " : " south-africa " , " termgroup " : 0 , ... Maverick is an independent online news publication and weekly print newspaper in South Africa. rnrnIt is known for breaking some of the defining stories of South Africa in the past decade , including the Marikana Massacre , in which the South African Police Service killed 34 miners in August 2012. rnrnIt also investigated the Gupta Leaks , which won the 2019 Global Shining Light Award. rnrnThat investigation was credited with exposing the Indian-born Gupta family and former President Jacob Zuma for their role in the systemic political corruption referred to as state capture. rnrnIn 2018 , co-founder and editor-in-chief Branislav u2018Brankou2019 Brkic was awarded the countryu2019s prestigious Nat Nakasa Award , recognised for initiating the investigative collaboration after receiving the hard drive that included the email tranche. rnrnIn 2021 , co-founder and CEO Styli Charalambous also received the award. rnrnDaily Maverick covers the latest political and news developments in South Africa with breaking news updates , analysis , opinions and more . " , " parent " : 0 , " count " : 47369 , " filter " : " raw ... Citizen " , " slug " : " maverick-citizen " , " termgrou ... 24-year-old arrested after horror crash kills six as BMW ploughs into pedestrians <p> In what the spokesperson for the Eastern Cape Department of Transport Unathi Binqose described as the worst accident recorded in the province in many years , a 24-year-old man driving a BMW allegedly crashed into a group of pedestrians walking on the side of the road on Friday night . Five pedestrians were killed on impact and a sixth died on the way to hospital . <p> Driver arrested by Eastern Cape police after vehicle ploughs into group , killing six men <p> 24-year-old to be charged with culpable homicide <p> Department of Transport calls accident the worst in years , urges vigilance on R61 <p> Police arrest suspect , set to appear in court for culpable homicide case <p> The vehicle was involved in a horror crash outside of Mbizana . The driver allegedly ploughed into a group of men killing six . ( Photo : Supplied ) <p> The driver of a vehicle that is said to have ploughed into a group of men , killing six of them , was arrested by Eastern Cape police this morning . <p> The 24-year-old man will be charged with culpable homicide . <p> Eastern Cape Department of Transport spokesperson Unathi Binqose described the accident as the worst he has seen in the province in many years and the worst accident involving pedestrians . <p> " Six pedestrians have lost their lives after being knocked down by a single vehicle on the R61 between Mbizana and Port Edward , " he said . The accident occurred close to Redoubt . <p> Binqose said it happened at around 11 pm on Friday night . <p> " A BMW sedan was travelling from Mbizana to Port Edward with one male occupant , " he said . " Six men were walking along the road . The drive knocked all six of them . Five of them died on the scene . The sixth one died on the way to hospital , " he said . <p> Binqose said that the stretch of the R61 is unfortunately prone to vehicle accidents involving pedestrians and has called on both motorists and people walking on the side of the road to be extra vigilant . <p> Binqose said the driver had abandoned the badly damaged vehicle on the side of the road . It was later towed to the police pound . The vehicle sustained significant damage to the windscreen front of body . The driver fled the scene after the incident . <p> Binquose said that the police had been " on his heels " over the weekend . <p> Police spokesperson Colonel Siphokazi Mawisa said at 1 pm on 24 June that they have managed to arrest the suspect and will bring him before the Mbizana Magistrates Court later this afternoon . <p> " A case of culpable homicide has been opened for investigation following five pedestrians that were hit to death by a BMW at the Mzamba area , " she said . " The suspect has been arrested and will appear at the Mbizana Magistrate Court today . " <p> The MEC for Transport in the province , Xolile Nqatha , extended his condolences to the families of the deceased and called for the perpetrator to be brought to justice . DM <h> Zelensky replaces head of military in east ; EU sanctions 27 ships ' helping Russian war machine ' <p> The European Union slaps sanctions on 27 ships , including 17 oil haulers for Moscow , as fears of extremist violence rise in Russia following a deadly attack in Dagestan , while Zelensky shuffles military leadership amid Russia 's eastern advances . <p> The European Union placed sanctions on more than two dozen vessels , including 17 that hauled oil for Moscow . <p> A deadly attack by gunmen in the majority Muslim region of Dagestan just months after the assault on a Moscow concert hall has raised the spectre that Russia may be facing a wave of violence by religious extremists . <h> Zelensky replaces head of Ukraine 's troops in east amid Russia 's advances <p> Ukraine 's President Volodymyr Zelensky replaced the head of the country 's forces in the east , faced with Russian troops that were advancing in the region . <p> Brigadier General Andrii Hnatov will take over from Lieutenant General Yurii Sodol , who led the so-called Joint Forces , Zelensky said on Telegram late on Monday evening . He did n't elaborate on the reasons for the move . <p> Sodol was the commander of Ukraine 's land forces in the east and south that have been struggling to push back Russia 's offensive , which has gained momentum in recent months . Among Russia 's stated goals for the invasion of Ukraine is the takeover of the whole of the Donbas region , comprising Donetsk and Luhansk . <h> EU sanctions 27 ships it says are helping Russian war machine <p> The European Union placed sanctions on more than two dozen vessels , including 17 that hauled oil for Moscow . <p> The sanctions follow similar steps taken by the UK , which included so-called dark fleet ships on a list of entities it sanctioned earlier this month . <p> Among the vessels to be sanctioned are the Robon , which last year was filmed transferring Russian oil miles away from the location it was signalling , and the Andromeda Star , which suffered a crash near Denmark earlier this year . The Robon has been stationed in the Baltic Sea ever since it was named by UK authorities . <p> Since it invaded Ukraine , a fleet of several hundred ships has built up to service Russia 's oil exports . Those vessels often operate outside the oversight of industry-standard service providers , calling into question how safe they are . <p> The International Maritime Organization last year called on member states to prevent illegal operations by the shadow fleet through resolution A.1192(33) . The EU cited that resolution for 11 of the vessels it sanctioned . <p> The sanctions prevent access to ports in Europe as well as the ability to sell , charter , operate or crew such a vessel . The measure also prohibits European operators from providing supplies and services such as insurance , brokering , financing and bunkering , as well as engaging in ship-to-ship transfers or any other transfer of cargo with the vessels or getting services from them . <p> A total of 27 ships were sanctioned , including two ships that store liquefied natural gas and general cargo vessels that carry restricted goods or are linked to sanctioned entities . The list grew from an original proposal of a dozen ships and more vessels could be added in future sanctions packages . <h> Deadly attack in Russia stirs fears of extremist violence <p> A deadly attack by gunmen in the majority Muslim region of Dagestan just months after the assault on a Moscow concert hall has raised the spectre that Russia may be facing a wave of violence by religious extremists . <p> Security services said terrorists were behind Sunday 's attacks that targeted two churches and a synagogue in the often violence-wracked region in southern Russia . At least 15 police officers and four civilians , including a priest , were killed , Russia 's Investigative Committee said on Monday on Telegram . <p> Among six militants who were killed , three were sons and a nephew of a local official that the ruling United Russia party later expelled , according to the Interfax news service . Investigators were trying to establish who was responsible for organising the attacks . <p> A close ally of President Vladimir Putin , the speaker of Russia 's upper house of parliament , Valentina Matviyenko , alleged Russia had information of " confirmed foreign funding " for the attack . Law enforcement agencies " will clear out extremist cells in the shortest possible time , complete investigative actions and reliably establish " where and to whom threads lead , she said . <p> The assault came three months after gunmen carried out the worst atrocity in Moscow for two decades , killing more than 140 people in an attack on the Crocus City Hall concert venue on 22 March . Russia initially pointed the finger at Ukraine for the assault that was claimed by Islamic State . Security services eventually acknowledged that Islamic State 's branch in Afghanistan was behind the Moscow attack , the biggest single loss of life in the capital since Chechen separatists took hostages in 2002 at the Nord-Ost theatre . <p> The Islamic State 's Afghan subsidiary issued a statement on its Russian-language Al-Azaim channel praising the militant assault in Dagestan , which it said was carried out " by our brothers from the Caucasus " , according to the Washington-based Institute for the Study of War . <p> The latest attacks stood out for their coordination and scale . Russian Telegram channels posted several videos of men wearing black T-shirts shooting at police cars . Another video depicted a fire destroying a synagogue . <p> " There 's a huge problem with Islamic extremism in Russia , which is spreading , " said Sergei Markov , a political consultant close to the Kremlin . " Islamic State and other groups are active . " <p> That a local official 's relatives were among the militants " shows that radical Islam has gone deep into society and penetrated the elite " , Markov said . <p> Islamist groups have targeted Russia in the past , citing what they call anti-Muslim policies by the Kremlin . <p> In October , a mob encircled a flight from Israel at the airport in Dagestan 's regional capital of Makhachkala in protest at Israel 's war against the militant group Hamas in Gaza . It took hours to restore order . <p> A Dagestani legislator from the ruling pro-Kremlin party , Abdulkhakim Gadzhiev , accused the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation ( Nato ) states and Ukraine of plotting the latest attack . <p> Dmitry Rogozin , a senator in Russia 's upper house of parliament who has served as deputy prime minister , warned that ascribing every homegrown terrorist act to Nato and Ukraine " will cause big problems for us " , in a post on his Telegram account . <p> Russia 's insistence on blaming radical Islamic violence on Ukraine and its allies was making it impossible to counter it effectively , said Gregory Shvedov , an expert on southern Russia 's mainly Muslim regions . <h> Denmark to end F-16 pilot training for Ukraine at year-end <p> Denmark will end its training programme for Ukrainian pilots of F-16 warplanes at the end of the year to focus on its new fighter jets , the Nordic country 's defence minister said . <p> Once the programme was complete , Denmark would have trained " about " 20 pilots from Ukraine , Troels Lund Poulsen said at a news briefing on Monday . The Scandinavian nation last year pledged to send 19 F-16s to Kyiv once it had trained pilots to fly them . <p> The F-16 coalition led by countries including the US , Netherlands and Denmark will have to look at alternative locations , in addition to an already established training facility in Romania , to continue the activities , Lund Poulsen said . <p> " We will be transitioning to flying the F-35 , so we need to spend our energy on that , and so we can not continue training Ukrainian pilots after 2024 , " the defence minister said . Denmark has ordered 27 new F-35 planes , though delivery has been hit by several delays . <h> EU backs Russian asset profits for Ukraine by dodging Orb ? n veto <p> European Union member states agreed on a plan to send Ukraine ? 1.4-billion in military aid from the windfall profits of frozen Russian assets after finding a way to circumvent a Hungarian veto . <p> The decision was approved as EU foreign ministers met in Luxembourg on Monday , according to diplomats . <p> The move came after Josep Borrell , the EU 's top diplomat , suggested that Viktor Orb ? n 's government could be essentially stripped of a vote on the issue , given that Hungary has abstained from a previous EU decision authorising the use of the funds . <p> " The treaty provides legal ways to advance even if some member state does n't want to participate , " Borrell said . " Since Hungary did n't participate in the decision , it should n't participate in the implementation . " <p> Borrell 's proposal to circumvent Hungary " breaks European rules " , Foreign Minister P ? ter Szijj ? rt ? said in a social media post ahead of the meeting . <p> Hungary , the EU 's most pro-Russia nation , has blocked some ? 6.5-billion of urgently needed military aid for Kyiv as Ukraine 's military seeks to fend off Russian assaults . That 's after Orb ? n dropped his veto in February over a broader ? 50-billion financial aid package for Ukraine . <p> Budapest 's blocks have prompted anxiety about the use of the profits from frozen Russian assets . That money would be used directly for weapons purchases for Ukraine , rather than to reimburse member states that provide such aid for Kyiv . <p> About $280-billion in assets have been immobilised by the Group of Seven nations since Russia 's 2022 invasion of Ukraine , with more than two-thirds of those held in the EU . The vast majority of the funds has been held through the Belgium-based settlement giant Euroclear <p> The ? 1.4-billion tranche , due to be sent in the coming weeks , is part of more than ? 2.5-billion earmarked for Ukraine from such funds for this year . <h> Russia summons US envoy over Ukraine missile strike in Crimea <p> The Russian Foreign Ministry summoned US Ambassador Lynne Tracy over an attack by Ukraine on the occupied Crimean peninsula . <p> The US " bears equal responsibility " with Ukraine for the attack and Russia would retaliate , the Foreign Ministry in Moscow said in a statement on Monday . <p> Russian officials said four people were killed , including two children , and more than 150 people were injured in what Russia said was an Atacms missile attack in Sevastopol , Crimea 's largest city , on Sunday . Russia 's Defence Ministry said its air defences downed four missiles while a fifth was struck and diverted from its trajectory before exploding over the city . <p> The US began supplying Kyiv with Atacms missiles earlier this year . <p> Russia , which began a full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022 , seized Crimea in 2014 . DM <h> Comments <p> " termid " : 387188 , " name " : " Maverick News " , " slug " : " maverick-news " , " termgroup " : 0 , " ... Africa " , " slug " : " south-africa " , " termgroup " : 0 , ... Maverick is an independent online news publication and weekly print newspaper in South Africa. rnrnIt is known for breaking some of the defining stories of South Africa in the past decade , including the Marikana Massacre , in which the South African Police Service killed 34 miners in August 2012. rnrnIt also investigated the Gupta Leaks , which won the 2019 Global Shining Light Award. rnrnThat investigation was credited with exposing the Indian-born Gupta family and former President Jacob Zuma for their role in the systemic political corruption referred to as state capture. rnrnIn 2018 , co-founder and editor-in-chief Branislav u2018Brankou2019 Brkic was awarded the countryu2019s prestigious Nat Nakasa Award , recognised for initiating the investigative collaboration after receiving the hard drive that included the email tranche. rnrnIn 2021 , co-founder and CEO Styli Charalambous also received the award. rnrnDaily Maverick covers the latest political and news developments in South Africa with breaking news updates , analysis , opinions and more . " , " parent " : 0 , " count " : 47369 , " filter " : " raw ... Maverick " , " slug " : " business-maverick " , " termgr ... After the Bell : Solar panels to adorn Lake Kariba -- pros and cons <p> Plans are afoot to install 150MW of floating photovoltaics on the surface of Kariba , a dam crucial to power generation in Zimbabwe and Zambia , stirring up a mix of excitement and concern among environmentalists as the world races to harness the potential benefits and grapple with the unknown risks of this innovative technology . <p> Aim to have 150MW of floating photovoltaics installed on Kariba 's surface by early 2025 , crucial for power generation in Zimbabwe and Zambia . <p> Growth in floating solar sector surges with forecasts of a global floating fleet generating 60GW within the next decade . <p> Advantages of floating photovoltaics include land conservation , increased efficiency due to water cooling effect , and reduced water evaporation . <p> Environmental impacts of floating solar systems are still not fully understood , with potential disruptions to aquatic ecosystems and water quality . <p> Lake Kariba Zimbabwe . ( Photo : Hideaways Africa / Wikipedia ) <p> According to news reports , the aim is to have 150MW installed on Kariba 's surface in early 2025 . The rather artless term for the technology is floating photovoltaics ( FPV ) . Kariba is bordered by Zimbabwe and Zambia and the dam is crucial to power generation in both countries . <p> The announcement may raise alarm bells among some environmentalists , and my brief review of the literature suggests there are pros and cons to such setups . <p> To wit , the first floating solar system was installed at Aichi , Japan , in 2007 . Japan became the pioneer on this front because land for such purposes is scarce , according to the World Economic Forum . So the Japanese made a plan . <p> Since that pilot project , growth in this new sector has surged and some forecasts see a global floating fleet generating 60GW within the next decade . <p> An academic review of the scientific literature around floating solar , published in 2022 in the peer-reviewed journal Clean Technologies , estimated that 1% coverage of global reservoirs with the panels " ... would have a potential capacity of 404GW ( of ) benign power production " . <p> Pointedly , it also noted : " The major gap in research is the impact FPV has on water quality and living organisms in the bodies of water . " <p> So , what are some of the positive impacts linked to FPV ? <p> The first is what drove the initial project in Japan : land conservation . Beyond rooftops , ground-mounted PV systems require lots of ground . And a lot of that available ground is already being utilised for agriculture or would be found in relatively treeless but sensitive ecological habitats such as grasslands or desert . <p> FPVs are also more efficient than land-based systems . This is because water has a cooling effect on the panels , which boosts the performance of photovoltaic cells , leading to increased power generation . There is a nice summary of this stuff here . <p> Another spin-off is that such systems reduce water evaporation -- this is why Gautengers cover their swimming pools during the dry winter months . <p> And this is crucial for the Kariba Dam , which saw its levels sink to 13.5% in April of this year because of searing heat waves and a drought linked to the El Ni ? o weather pattern which also decimated Zimbabwe and Zambia 's maize harvests . <p> In the face of human-induced climate change and the increasing intensity and volume of extreme weather events , it surely makes sense to find ways to curb evaporation rates in Kariba . <p> There can also be positive environmental effects . The paper cited above says that : " Multiple papers concluded that a positive impact FPV has on water quality is the reduction of algae growth . " <p> But floating solar can also have negative consequences . The installation and maintenance can be disruptive and harmful substances can potentially leak and pollute the surrounding water . <p> Photosynthesis for aquatic plants can be blocked , retarding their growth with consequences for the wider watery ecosystem and its floral and faunal inhabitants . There is a sad irony here : a system that creates solar energy can simultaneously cut it off for living organisms . <p> The flip side of this is that if FPV systems contain unnatural algae growth -- say , from invasive species , a problem that has plagued South Africa 's dams and waterways -- then a lot more sunlight can shine in and reach aquatic vegetation . <p> Oxygen levels in the water can also be affected , with negative ecological results . <p> As the study cited above points out , the environmental impacts of such systems are still poorly or not completely understood , which is not a surprise as the technology is relatively young . <p> This is a work in progress and the long-term effects will likely only become apparent in the years and decades ahead . Remember , burning fossil fuels was initially seen as a great idea because this unleashing of energy fuelled industrialisation and the modern economy . <p> With Kariba specifically , there are red flags . <p> For one thing , Zimbabwe 's government under the avaricious Zanu-PF government is as corrupt as it is authoritarian and useless . Seriously , if it 's involved in a big project , what could possibly go wrong ? <p> Installing solar panels on Kariba also presents challenges that you do n't find in Japan and many other places . Could hippos for example mangle equipment and along with crocodiles menace work crews ? <p> Built in the 1950s in the Kariba Gorge , the operation led to the displacement of tens of thousands of Tonga people who lived on both sides of the river . <p> One of their gods is the Zambezi River God or Nyami Nyami , and his wrath was believed by the Tonga to have been unleashed when the dam was being constructed as the project was marred by setbacks , including unprecedented floods in 1957 which washed away sections of the partly built dam , killing several workers . <p> The bodies of 11 Italian workers are entombed in the concrete of the dam wall because of a subsequent disaster . <p> The next chapter in the dam 's history is about to be written , and like the original project , it holds both promise and uncertainty . <p> And what will Nyami Nyami make of solar panels gracing Kariba 's surface ? <p> An Israeli soldier at the site of a Hezbollah anti-tank missile direct hit on a house near the Lebanon border in Moshav Shtula , northern Israel , on 19 June 2024 . ( Photo : Kobi Wolf / Bloomberg via Getty Images ) <p> Houthi militants are attacking commercial ships off Yemen with increasing -- and sometimes deadly -- effectiveness , exposing the limits of a US-led coalition to quell the violence in some of the world 's most important waterways . <p> The Houthis struck the commodities carrier Transworld Navigator in a suspected drone attack early on Sunday , marking the fourth time the vessel has been targeted , according to US Central Command . The ship continued on its path through the Red Sea , following moderate damage and minor injuries to the crew . <h> Israel to ease off Gaza fighting as focus moves to Hezbollah <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said intense fighting with Hamas would soon be paused and some forces redeployed to the north of the country , where violence is escalating with Lebanon-based Hezbollah . <p> The military would continue its campaign to eradicate Hamas from Gaza but switch to more targeted operations , Netanyahu told Israel 's Channel 14 on Sunday . He had been asked about the duration of fighting in the enclave 's southern city of Rafah , where more than one million people have been displaced to allow Israel to target what it said were the last remaining Hamas battalions . <p> " It will be very soon , " Netanyahu said of the planned de-escalation , in his first interview with Israeli media since the Hamas attacks on 7 October triggered the near nine-month war . About 1,200 people were killed in that invasion , with 250 more taken hostage . <p> The focus would then turn to northern Israel , Netanyahu said , where cross-border exchanges with Hezbollah have been taking place since October . Israel 's military said last week that operational planning for an offensive in Lebanon had been approved , with the aim of driving back the group and allowing tens of thousands of Israelis evacuated from the border area to return home . <p> A similar number of people have had to move out of southern Lebanon . <p> " If we can , we 'll do this by diplomatic means , if not it 'll be achieved in another way , " Netanyahu said , echoing weeks of escalating rhetoric between Israel and Hezbollah , a heavily armed militia that has been fighting in solidarity with Hamas . <p> Both Hezbollah and Hamas are backed by Iran and are considered terrorist organisations by the US . <p> The US has for months been striving to prevent open warfare from breaking out between Israel and Hezbollah , and a top military official warned on Sunday that Washington may not be able to assist Israel to the same extent as when it helped intercept missiles from Iran in April . <p> It would be harder to fend off the shorter-range rockets favoured by Hezbollah , Charles Brown , chairman of the US Joint Chiefs of Staff , said on Sunday in comments reported by the Associated Press . Such a conflict would also risk drawing a fresh response from Tehran , he added . <p> Israel 's ground invasion of Gaza last year -- aimed at returning hostages taken on 7 October and uprooting Hamas as a military and political entity -- has killed about 37,000 Palestinians , according to authorities in the Hamas-run enclave who do n't distinguish between fighters and civilians . About 313 Israeli soldiers have died in the ensuing conflict , according to the Israel Defense Forces . <p> The war has left much of Gaza in ruins and the enclave 's population battling shortages of food , water and healthcare , according to the United Nations . Aid companies have struggled to get enough assistance to those who need it due to tightly controlled borders and customs checks , as well as ongoing warfare . <p> In the interview , Netanyahu rejected the prospect of a ceasefire deal with Hamas that could eventually lead to the end of the war -- as laid out in a speech by US President Joe Biden at the end of May . <p> " If there is an agreement , it will be on our terms and that would not mean ending the war , withdrawing from Gaza and leaving Hamas rule intact , " he said . <p> " I am willing to agree to a partial deal that will see some of the Israeli hostages come home , and after such ceasefire ends , we will be committed to continuing the fighting until the goal of eliminating Hamas is completed , " he said . <p> His interview angered families of hostages , who blame him for abandoning those who remain in Gaza . He was " violating the country 's moral duty toward its citizens " , a statement by hostage family members issued after the interview said . <p> Netanyahu 's office issued a later statement saying he was committed to bringing back all the hostages . Around half were released during a week-long truce -- the only one so far -- that ended on 1 December . Of those remaining , Israeli officials believe around 40 , at least , have died . " It is Hamas that opposes a deal , not Israel , " the prime minister 's statement read . " Netanyahu has made clear we will not leave Gaza until we return all hostages , living and deceased . " <p> Hamas has repeatedly said it wo n't agree to a ceasefire deal that does n't include the permanent withdrawal of Israeli troops from Gaza . <p> Tens of thousands of Israelis took to the streets of Tel Aviv again on Saturday , demanding new elections and a ceasefire to get the hostages out . <h> Houthi attacks on commercial shipping ramp up and get deadlier <p> Houthi militants are attacking commercial ships off Yemen with increasing -- and sometimes deadly -- effectiveness , exposing the limits of a US-led coalition to quell the violence in some of the world 's most important waterways . <p> The Houthis struck the commodities carrier Transworld Navigator in a suspected drone attack early on Sunday , marking the fourth time the vessel has been targeted , according to US Central Command . The ship continued on its path through the Red Sea , following moderate damage and minor injuries to the crew . <p> Earlier this month , a seafarer died after an attack on the Tutor , a ship hauling coal that was built in 2022 . The vessel sank in what appeared to be the first successful Houthi strike from a seaborne drone . <p> Since late last year , the Iran-backed Houthis have targeted merchant ships for what they say is a response to the Israel-Hamas war . But there are clear signs that -- as well as stepping up attacks -- the militants are doing more damage . <p> In another recent incident , crew members on the cargo carrier Verbena abandoned ship in the Gulf of Aden following two Houthi missile attacks that caused fires on board , according to the US military . The mariners were rescued by another bulk carrier . <p> The recent barrage , following a lull , raises questions about whether the coalition can prevent the attacks in waters that in normal times are a major trade route for oil , liquefied natural gas and other commodities . Vessel traffic in the Red Sea region has dropped about 70% since December , with many commercial ships now taking the more expensive and time-consuming route around Africa . <p> The head of the European Union 's naval force in the region last week said it needs to double in size to effectively combat the Houthis . <p> Meanwhile , the USS Dwight D Eisenhower aircraft carrier strike group is leaving the region as it has come to the end of its scheduled deployment . It will be replaced by the USS Theodore Roosevelt strike group . DM <p> Just a handful of tech stocks drive the majority of gains in the US stock market . <p> The power of Big Techs is fueled by acquisitions , government support , and monopolistic practices . <p> ( Image : Generated by ideogram.ai ) <p> For those of us who enjoy a daily dose of world news -- reading , watching , listening or skimming accounts of all that 's happened over the past 24 hours -- there is a single news item that is always there , as reliable as sunset , at least on weekdays . The headline that indicates the performance of the stock market over the previous 24 hours . You know the type -- " The Nasdaq fell by 1.8% on fears/news of ... " It is usually followed by some grasping attempt at an explanation citing investor confidence , world events , support or resistance levels , political uncertainty , or a central bank interest rate announcement . <p> It turns out that there is less to this than meets the eye . Startling statistics caught my eye last week , but we 'll get back to that in a moment . <p> Adam Smith , known as the " Father of Economics " , wrote his iconic Wealth of Nations in 1776 . Much has been written about this book . About his muscular defence of free markets , his distaste of the market-warping effects of government intervention , what he really meant by the corrective " invisible hand " -- the idea that the hidden benefits of self-interest supposedly fuel social good . <p> Then there were his musings on monopolies . Nasty and foul-smelling piles , he argued ( in somewhat more erudite terms ) , which keep prices artificially high , reduce the free flow of goods and services , stunt competition , unduly influence politics and have a host of other odious consequences . While he admitted that they were sometimes a natural inevitability , he also implied that they would eventually collapse under the competitive imperatives of a laissez-faire economy . <p> OK , back to the stock markets and the statistics I promised . <p> If you have many tens of billions in discretionary cash , moats are easier to build . The deeper the moat , the more defendable the monopoly . <p> The S&amp;P 500 is an index tracking the 500 largest stocks on the US markets . Stock market news often refers to the aggregate movement of the index price as an indicator of general market movement . It turns out that just seven companies -- Microsoft , Apple , Nvidia , Amazon , Alphabet , Meta and Tesla -- make up more than 28% of the value of the entire S&amp;P 500 . If you add some of the other lesser-known tech giants like Broadcom and Adobe , the figure jumps to 35% . <p> But here is the statistic that really shocked me . In 2023 the S&amp;P 500 racked up a gain of almost 12% . However , if you remove the 20 Big Tech stocks from the index , the gain would be only 1.41% . <p> Meaning that the value of the 500 biggest public companies in the US are monopolised by just a handful of tech stocks . About 20 stocks did very nicely indeed . The rest barely moved the needle . <p> Adam Smith is no doubt turning in his grave . <p> The story of how these few companies became so inordinately powerful , even hegemonic , is often colourful and perhaps a little surprising . It has to do with incentives and , as we know , economics is about nothing if not incentives . And it is not purely a simple result of great products . <p> For instance , many of them have benefited from government tax incentives , from government lobbying in support of favourable policies and laws , and a slew of other cunning moves like property abatements and global tax arbitrage . <p> And from acquisitions , many of them . Including companies such as those innovating around the edges of the innovator 's main product , or those showing signs of being pesky competitors , those with valuable patents or those with appetising customers . <p> Google has acquired more than 240 companies , Apple and Microsoft more than 100 each . Acquisition has become such a staple of growth that many startups now go into business in order to be acquired by one of the tech behemoths -- it is their entire exit strategy . <p> The metal and wheels on the roads will not be where the value resides , it will be in the artificial brain that drives the car . <p> I wonder what Smith would have thought about this . He did not address it directly -- corporate mergers and acquisitions were not a thing in his day . It is difficult to know where to place them on the spectrum of fair practice . <p> The Big Techs have amassed enormous war chests , partly due to great high-margin product , partly to having grabbed land first , partly to overvalued share prices and partly to the easy levers of monopolistic dominance . And by the aforementioned strategic gobbling up of anyone of interest . If you have many tens of billions in discretionary cash , moats are easier to build . The deeper the moat , the more defendable the monopoly . <p> All of this leaves us with a conundrum , wondering whether all this power residing in a select group of companies which dominate the public markets is a good thing for the consumer stuck on the end of the value chain . We may bitch and moan about certain aspects of their products and services -- their high prices or impersonal customer support , their privacy policies or the walled gardens from which there is little escape -- but there are few of us who could imagine life without these mega companies -- our world would be impoverished without them . I love my Mac , I buy stuff on Amazon , I use WhatsApp and Gmail and Outlook every day . <p> Which brings me to this : <p> It seems as though the emergence of AI is going to reshuffle this deck , perhaps adding some new cards to the pack . For instance , I never use Google for search anymore . I now use a product from an AI startup named Perplexity which combines AI with traditional search . Tesla looks like it is becoming an AI company , not an EV company ; the metal and wheels on the roads will not be where the value resides , it will be in the artificial brain that drives the car . Amazon and Meta will have to fight off AI-muscled challengers and Apple has already had to partner with Microsoft 's ChatGPT to stay in the race . And Nvidia , which supplies the AI chips to everyone , was nowhere near this group of seven a few years ago . Now it is the highest-valued company in the world . <p> Perhaps Adam Smith will be proved correct , and monopolies will implode under the natural weight of an unfettered capitalist economy . No matter how deep the moats , it seems that there are , eventually , other ways to break into castles . DM <p> Steven Boykey Sidley is a professor of practice at JBS , University of Johannesburg . His new book It 's Mine : How the Crypto Industry is Redefining Ownership is published by Maverick451 in South Africa and the Legend Times Group in the UK/EU , available now . <h> Comments <p> " termid " : 387188 , " name " : " Maverick News " , " slug " : " maverick-news " , " termgroup " : 0 , " ... Africa " , " slug " : " south-africa " , " termgroup " : 0 , ... Maverick is an independent online news publication and weekly print newspaper in South Africa. rnrnIt is known for breaking some of the defining stories of South Africa in the past decade , including the Marikana Massacre , in which the South African Police Service killed 34 miners in August 2012. rnrnIt also investigated the Gupta Leaks , which won the 2019 Global Shining Light Award. rnrnThat investigation was credited with exposing the Indian-born Gupta family and former President Jacob Zuma for their role in the systemic political corruption referred to as state capture. rnrnIn 2018 , co-founder and editor-in-chief Branislav u2018Brankou2019 Brkic was awarded the countryu2019s prestigious Nat Nakasa Award , recognised for initiating the investigative collaboration after receiving the hard drive that included the email tranche. rnrnIn 2021 , co-founder and CEO Styli Charalambous also received the award. rnrnDaily Maverick covers the latest political and news developments in South Africa with breaking news updates , analysis , opinions and more . " , " parent " : 0 , " count " : 47369 , " filter " : " raw ... Maverick " , " slug " : " business-maverick " , " termgr ... The case against the Electoral Commission of SA ( IEC ) by Jacob Zuma 's uMkhonto Wesizwe ( MK ) party is big on theatrics , claiming that more than 9 million votes are unaccounted for in the election . <p> It 's a claim that election and legal analysts say will be difficult to substantiate , particularly if the party has not fully revealed how it reached that number . <p> The MK party has refused to accept the outcome of the 29 May national election , claiming vote-rigging . The party obtained 14.6% of the votes , translating to 58 seats in Parliament . John Hlophe , who was impeached as a judge , is set to lead the party 's parliamentary caucus when it eventually takes up its seats . <h> Bold statements <p> The MK party makes several bold statements in its papers before the Electoral Court , including that it believes it should have won the polls outright . <p> " Had the elections been conducted in a free and fair manner , the party would in all likelihood have won the national and provincial elections , " says the party 's national organiser , Nkosinathi Nhleko , who deposed the founding affidavit and is a former Cabinet minister who controversially defended Zuma 's swimming pool built with state funds as a " fire pool " . <p> He argues that there is " evidence of serious electoral irregularities " . The party is relying on an analysis done by unnamed experts . <p> " There is evidence that , because of the deficiencies in the process , the results captured at the voting district differed from those that were reflected in the leader board by the IEC . In some instances , the differences were vast , while in others the differences were minor , " says Nhleko . <p> His affidavit is accompanied by " a document prepared and analysed by the experts of the Applicant " . It is not a full report , but rather a table that summarises alleged discrepancies in votes . <p> The MK party uses the " registered vote count by province " and " votes cast " numbers to conclude that there is a disparity of 9,336,828 votes . <p> However , lawyer Mpumelelo Zikalala says the MK party appears to be applying a " reverse onus " , putting the burden of proof on the IEC . <p> " One of the rules that applies in court , the law of evidence , is if I am alleging something is wrong , I am the one who must prove it . What I thought the MK party would have done is identify specific issues at voting stations and attach the result slips . They could ask for a recount based on that , " he says . <p> Zikalala adds that the party 's case is " not strong in terms of evidence " . <p> " If there is evidence that looks at an expert report , you have to include the qualifications of the expert who produced the report . You have to explain the methodology . You have to do the homework behind the preparation of court papers , " he says . <p> Zikalala also notes that the party has not explained whether it considered the third ballot , which was a new addition to accommodate independent candidates . <p> The MK party also argues that the IEC 's election system and dashboard were compromised , citing an unnamed expert . <p> " The IEC reported only a single systems failure when , in fact , there is evidence that there was no movement of data during the capturing of election results in other instances , " Nhleko says . <p> He adds that alleged system failures could be attributed to 16 potential issues , including malware , cyber ? attacks , processor overheating , human error , computer memory problems , insufficient system resources and driver issues . <p> Legal expert Benedict Phiri says these " theories " will not be enough for the MK party to win its case . " The party has not put a case to the IEC . They are not saying what has actually happened ; they are saying what could have happened , " he says . <p> Elections analyst Wayne Sussman is also sceptical , saying it is " highly unlikely that 9 million votes could go missing " . <p> " If that was the case , we would be hearing from parties across the aisle . It 's implausible . It is an astonishing number , " he says . <p> Sussman adds that the way that votes are counted would make it difficult to explain such a disparity . <p> " The IEC has thought about this for many years . When polling stations close , they are converted into counting stations . Any party is able to put a party agent at the station to observe the count , " he says . <p> He adds that " mistakes can happen " at the tabulation stage when results are transferred to a central system , but these can be picked up and corrected . <p> The IEC has confirmed receiving the MK party 's application , but is yet to file a response . <p> " The commission is still awaiting directions from the court in order to comply with the matter . However , consideration of responses is under way , " says IEC spokesperson Kate Bapela . " Where there are truthful submissions , the commission will acknowledge them , and where there are incorrect and un ? ? substantiated submissions , the commission will also make it clear to the court . " <h> ATM wants results cast aside , targets IEC 's credibility <p> The African Transformation Movement ( ATM ) has also brought a case calling for the election results to be nullified . The party has highlighted several points , including problems with the voters ' roll , malfunctioning voter management devices ( VMDs ) , alleged mishandling of ballot boxes and the miscapturing of votes . <p> " Some voters were not on the voters ' roll for the voting districts they have registered at , but were informed their names appear in the voters ' roll elsewhere in another voting district . This disappointed the individual voters , most of which could not vote , very few managed to be transported to the voting districts where it is alleged their names appeared , " said party president Vuyolwethu Zungula in an affidavit before the Electoral Court . <p> The party also complained that issues experienced with VMDs on election day affected the outcome of the election . <p> " The malfunction of the VMD has participated in voter fraud ; it has made it impossible to curb or prevent double voting . The VMD has not been helpful for the purpose for which it was designed for . Again , this has compromised the freeness and fairness of the elections , most importantly the credibility of the commission , " Zungula said . <p> Legal expert Benedict Phiri said that , although the ATM had attached some vote-counting slips that indicate errors , it was not clear whether these errors were material . <p> " On one of the documents , it mentions something like 284 votes miscounted . If that 's the area of play , then there will be a question of materiality . " <p> Phiri said the ATM did not substantiate all its allegations and this could affect its case . <p> " This is a very serious thing to attack the integrity of the election and I would certainly expect more evidence of it , " he said . DM <p> This story first appeared in our weekly Daily Maverick168 newspaper , which is available countrywide for R35 . <p> You may write a letter to the DM168 editor at email protected sharing your views on this story . Letters will be curated , edited and considered for publication in our weekly newspaper on our readers ' views page . <h> Comments <p> " termid " : 387188 , " name " : " Maverick News " , " slug " : " maverick-news " , " termgroup " : 0 , " ... Africa " , " slug " : " south-africa " , " termgroup " : 0 , ... Maverick is an independent online news publication and weekly print newspaper in South Africa. rnrnIt is known for breaking some of the defining stories of South Africa in the past decade , including the Marikana Massacre , in which the South African Police Service killed 34 miners in August 2012. rnrnIt also investigated the Gupta Leaks , which won the 2019 Global Shining Light Award. rnrnThat investigation was credited with exposing the Indian-born Gupta family and former President Jacob Zuma for their role in the systemic political corruption referred to as state capture. rnrnIn 2018 , co-founder and editor-in-chief Branislav u2018Brankou2019 Brkic was awarded the countryu2019s prestigious Nat Nakasa Award , recognised for initiating the investigative collaboration after receiving the hard drive that included the email tranche. rnrnIn 2021 , co-founder and CEO Styli Charalambous also received the award. rnrnDaily Maverick covers the latest political and news developments in South Africa with breaking news updates , analysis , opinions and more . " , " parent " : 0 , " count " : 47369 , " filter " : " raw ... Cape Town lawyer charged with trying to smuggle cannabis and Mandrax into court for clients <p> A lawyer who allegedly tried to smuggle 79 sachets of cannabis sealed in ' clingwrap plastic ' and 100 Mandrax tablets into the Kuils River Magistrates ' Court has been denied bail . He faces two similar charges in other courts , for allegedly distributing drugs to dealers in the holding cells . <p> Cape Town lawyer Ayanda Lennox Pupa , who is facing drug-related charges , has been denied bail in the Kuils River Magistrates ' Court . He was arrested after security searched suspicious parcels he had in his possession and discovered 79 sachets filled with cannabis sealed in clingwrap and 100 Mandrax tablets . ( Photo : SAPS ) <p> Cape Town lawyer Ayanda Lennox Pupa was denied bail in the Kuils River Magistrates ' Court on Friday , 21 June after the State informed the court that Pupa was already on bail of R3,000 in connection with two similar crimes . <p> The Kuils River court charge stems from Pupa 's arrest on Tuesday , 4 June 2024 thanks to a court orderly 's vigilance . <p> Police spokesperson Warrant Officer Joseph Swartbooi said a police member deployed at the court was called to assist the security at the main entrance to the court where a suspicious-looking man had been apprehended . <p> " When the police officer arrived at the entrance he found an unknown man in possession of suspicious parcels . The police officer opened the parcels in his presence and discovered 79 sachets filled with cannabis sealed in ' clingwrap plastic ' and 100 Mandrax tablets . <p> It transpired , said Swartbooi , that the suspect was " as an attorney who was supposed to represent a suspect at the magistrates ' court " . The 41-year-old was detained on a charge of drug possession . <p> During the bail hearing on Friday the court heard evidence from the State that Pupa had entered the court fully robed although he did n't have clients appearing on that day . <p> The prosecution said Pupa had allegedly committed the same type of crime on a number of occasions , " in which he went to court , went to court cells , and gave drugs to drug dealers or people in the cells , sometimes as cell phones " . <p> Pupa has previously been charged with allegedly supplying drugs to inmates in holding cells across multiple courts . <p> On 29 June 2022 , Pupa was released on R20,000 bail by the Wynberg Magistrates ' Court after being caught trying to smuggle drugs to his client , who was appearing in court . Pupa appeared in court on 15 June 2022 to represent his client , Vuyolwethu Nobuntu ( 29 ) , who was being detained at Pollsmoor Prison . <p> Pupa was charged with possession and dealing in drugs after police caught him allegedly trying to hand a sealed package of drugs to Nobuntu . The package contained 60 Mandrax tablets , 20 units of cocaine , four packets of tik ( methamphetamine ) and two parcels of dagga . <p> When Pupa was questioned by police about the package he allegedly said it contained medication for Nobuntu . However , an affidavit by detective Yongama Luyenge said Nobuntu told the police he did not know the accused and did n't know what had been handed to him . <p> But when police officers searched Nobuntu they discovered that Pupa allegedly handed him a packet of drugs in plastic wrap with sellotape . <p> Pupa is alleged to have apologised , claiming he was drunk and did n't know the package contained drugs . <p> In September 2021 , Pupa was arrested for alleged possession of six packets of methamphetamine ( known as tik or meth ) and 196 Mandrax tablets at the Bellville Magistrates ' Court . <p> A court orderly became suspicious of a plastic bag he was carrying , and on searching him allegedly discovered the drugs in twists of paper torn from an advertising pamphlet . The police allege Pupa had intended to smuggle in the drugs for a client . They put their estimated street value at R9,600 . <p> He was granted R3,000 bail by the same court on charges of dealing in drugs , alternatively possession or use , under the Drugs and Drug Trafficking Act . <p> Pupa has said he will plead not guilty at his trial . The State is in a process of combining the three cases to present in arguments when a trial date has been set . DM <h> Comments <p> " termid " : 387188 , " name " : " Maverick News " , " slug " : " maverick-news " , " termgroup " : 0 , " ... Africa " , " slug " : " south-africa " , " termgroup " : 0 , ... Maverick is an independent online news publication and weekly print newspaper in South Africa. rnrnIt is known for breaking some of the defining stories of South Africa in the past decade , including the Marikana Massacre , in which the South African Police Service killed 34 miners in August 2012. rnrnIt also investigated the Gupta Leaks , which won the 2019 Global Shining Light Award. rnrnThat investigation was credited with exposing the Indian-born Gupta family and former President Jacob Zuma for their role in the systemic political corruption referred to as state capture. rnrnIn 2018 , co-founder and editor-in-chief Branislav u2018Brankou2019 Brkic was awarded the countryu2019s prestigious Nat Nakasa Award , recognised for initiating the investigative collaboration after receiving the hard drive that included the email tranche. rnrnIn 2021 , co-founder and CEO Styli Charalambous also received the award. rnrnDaily Maverick covers the latest political and news developments in South Africa with breaking news updates , analysis , opinions and more . " , " parent " : 0 , " count " : 47369 , " filter " : " raw ... Citizen " , " slug " : " maverick-citizen " , " termgrou ... Life " , " slug " : " maverick-life " , " termgroup " : 0 , " ... Mother City at Encounters -- No battle is won without resilience and solidarity <p> ' Mother City ' , the opening film of the Encounters South African International Documentary Festival , paints a portrait of the gutwrenching struggle to be recognised in the fight for public housing in Cape Town 's inner city . <p> Among the wide range of international films showing are several award-winning documentaries such as the Belgian film Soundtrack to a Coup d'Etat which unravels the CIA 's mission to further covert agendas through African American jazz musicians . <p> The film masterfully uncovers the housing crisis in Cape Town , highlighting how low-income workers , who are integral to the city , are often excluded due to unaffordable high rents . <p> While Cape Town , and the Western Cape as a whole , are often seen as an outlier from the rest of the country , frequently uplifted for the standard of living its citizens enjoy , Mother City sets out to prove that impoverished Capetonians are often suffering in this idyllic town , that it is , in fact , brutal at its core . <p> " I have always thought of Mother City as a love letter to the city I call home and love very deeply , " Miki Redelinghuys said . " But love can also be painful in as much as it is beautiful . " <p> Reclaim the City activists marching to protest the sale of the Tafelberg site . ( Photo : Supplied ) <p> The opening scene places viewers in the middle of a dinner party at the Cape Town Press Club attended by former Western Premier Helen Zille in 2016 , at the start of the movement . The protesters intruded on the dinner as a form of protest but did not come to fight -- instead , they sang . <p> They sang a powerful anthem that echoed throughout the film as much as it did in the small venue they crowded . <p> They sang the lyrics to Rebecca Malope 's My Mother chanting , " My mother was a kitchen girl , my father was a garden boy . " In the film , they are seen being kicked out -- they are not met with weaponised violence but instead an equally sinister oppression in the form of denial and the refusal to listen . <p> Succeeding this initial call to action , with the efforts of ' activist organisation and law centre ' Ndifuna Ukwazi and one particularly charismatic activist Nkosikhona ( Face ) Swartbooi , the movement pledges to fight spatial apartheid and occupy public land in the inner city of Cape Town . <p> The film juxtaposes this community-led struggle for justice with the looming threat of being squished out by private developers like Growthpoint Properties encroaching on the city with the government 's green light . <p> City residents facing eviction are relegated to temporary housing settlements in Wolwerivier , over 30km from the city center . <p> Repeatedly , activists compare the situation to apartheid . <h> Showcasing communities and endeavour <p> The Reclaim the City activists are masters of the phrase " there is no convenient time for a protest , " showing up at former Deputy Mayor Ian Neilson 's house , crashing golf courses , and occupying parking lots , but city leaders , such as Neilson seem to brush them off without addressing their concerns . <p> Throughout the film , city leaders such as Zille and Neilson appear apathetic at best , except for mayoral committee member for transport and urban development Brett Herron , who resigned over disagreements on how the city handled low-income housing . <p> The film portrays the activists ' struggle as a " David versus Goliath battle , " with Swartbooi at the center of it all , making sacrifice after sacrifice for his vision of the greater good . <p> " My mum died when I was seven . I grew up in Khayelitsha in a shack with my grandparents , my brothers , and my sisters . It was eight of us crammed into a single room . <p> " We had to relieve ourselves in the bush , no running water , sleeping on the floor . Growing up like that was humiliating . I wanted to change this , but I just did n't know how , " Swartbooi says in the film . <p> His renewed efforts are rooted in the basic human desire to be acknowledged . In this case , it is to force the government to recognise that low-income citizens have the right to also live in the spaces where they work . <p> Swartbooi drives the emotional core of this film , tethering the cause to someone who captures the movement 's spirit and needs so acutely . <p> While Swartbooi is the face of the movement , the responsive community surrounding him is a testament to the strength Reclaim the City holds . <p> The documentary tells a fierce story that proves no battle is won without resilience and solidarity , and while the Tafelberg ruling , originally a grand victory , was overturned by the Supreme Court of Appeal , small wins like the newly announced social housing development in Woodstock have been adding up . <p> " Mother City has been selected as our opening film , as it represents the heart of what documentary film-making is about , " Festival Director Mandisa Zitha said . <p> " Dedicated , tenacious , and vociferous in its approach to following a group of activists over a long period , to capture their challenges and frustrations , and indeed their successes . It speaks to the power of film in exposing the arduous journey so many in this world have to embark on to effect change . It is also a universally powerful story of the triumph of the collective . " <p> The documentary should leave you outraged and unsettled , yet observing the community these activists forge and their optimistic perspective also offers the viewer a sense of hope and empowerment . <p> Although the goal of Mother City could have likely been accomplished in a shorter runtime , the film 's 112-minute runtime beautifully delves into the growing pains South Africa 's society is left with post-apartheid and the grit it takes to endure the drawn-out , painstaking battles we call progress . DM <p> Mother City and a selection of local and international films will be featured at Encounters from June 20-30 in limited theatres . <p> Catholic devotees covered in mud and dried leaves gather at church grounds for a holy mass during the Taong Putik Festival ( Mud People ) in Bibiclat village , Aliaga town in Nueva Ecija province , Philippines , 24 June 2024 . EPA-EFE/ROLEX DELA PENA <p> The early morning ritual of the Mud People is followed by a holy mass to honor the feast day of Saint John the Baptist , as devotees give thanks and pray for more blessings in life . Catholic devotees cover themselves in mud and dried leaves gather at church grounds for a holy mass during the Taong Putik Festival ( Mud People ) in Bibiclat village , Aliaga town in Nueva Ecija province , Philippines , 24 June 2024 . EPA-EFE/ROLEX DELA PENA <p> A Catholic devotee covered in mud and dried leaves lights candles before the start of a church mass during the Taong Putik Festival ( Mud People ) in Bibiclat village , Aliaga town in Nueva Ecija province , Philippines , 24 June 2024 . EPA-EFE/ROLEX DELA PENA <p> A Catholic devotee drives his tricycle after covering himself in dried leaves and mud from a field during the Taong Putik Festival ( Mud People ) in Bibiclat village , Aliaga town in Nueva Ecija province , Philippines , 24 June 2024 . The early morning ritual of the Mud People is followed by a holy mass to honor the feast day of Saint John the Baptist , as devotees give thanks and pray for more blessings in life . EPA-EFE/ROLEX DELA PENA <p> Ukrainians jump over a bonfire during celebrations of the traditional pagan holiday of Ivana Kupala , in Kyiv , Ukraine , 23 June 2024 . Ivana Kupala is usually celebrated on the shortest night of the year , marking the beginning of summer . People sing and dance around bonfires , play games , and perform traditional rituals . EPA-EFE/SERGEY DOLZHENKO <p> A young boy fixes his outfit just before he competes in the Youth Charro State Championship in San Diego , California , USA , 23 June 2024 . EPA-EFE/ALLISON DINNER <p> A reveller jumps over a bonfire on the occasion of the celebration of Saint John 's Day ( San Joan ) in Valencia , Spain , 23 June 2024 ( issued on 24 June 2024 ) . Sant Joan is celebrated all over Spain with bonfires , fireworks and performances . EPA-EFE/MANUEL BRUQUE <p> Shiite Houthi supporters perform a traditional dance during a ceremony marking the Shiite religious Day of al-Ghadir in Sana'a , Yemen , 24 June 2024 . The al-Ghadir Day is annually observed since Shiites believe Prophet Muhammad designated his cousin Imam Ali as his successor . Yemen 's Shiite Houthis celebrate al-Ghadir Day since they took control of most northern parts of Sunni majority-Yemen , including the capital Sana'a in 2014 . EPA-EFE/YAHYA ARHAB <p> An elderly woman holding an icon leads a group of honor guard soldiers carrying portraits , crosses and copies of the lat author 's books during a funeral ceremony for late author Spiridon Vangheli at the National Palace , in Chisinau , Moldova , 24 June 2024 . By a presidential decree the date 24 June was declared a day of national mourning for the Moldovan writer of children 's books , poet , and translator , who died at the age of 92 in Chisinau on 21 June 2024 . EPA-EFE/DUMITRU DORU <p> A handout photo made available by South Dakota Wing Civil Air Patrol shows flood waters surrounding a house in Hawarden , Iowa , USA , 23 June 2024 . Towns in northwestern Iowa and parts of South Dakota have experienced flooding as a result of storms dropping heavy amounts of rain late last week . EPA-EFE/SOUTH DAKOTA WING CIVIL AIR PATROL <p> People pass a Wagner Group informal memorial in downtown of Moscow , Russia , 24 June 2024 . One year ago , on 23 June 2023 , Yevgeny Prigozhin accused the Russian Defense Ministry of a missile strike on Wagner 's rear positions and proclaimed a ' march of justice ' to Moscow . On 24 June 2023 , the fighters entered Rostov-on-Don , occupied the headquarters of the Southern Front , and took control of military facilities . During the mutiny , they shot down two aircraft : an Il-22 and a Ka-52 . The next day , the Wagner columns turned around . Alexander Lukashenko mediated the resolution of the situation . EPA-EFE/YURI KOCHETKOV <p> Protesters demonstrate with placards reading ' Bjoern Hoecke is a Nazi ' in front of the Regional Court building where proceedings began in the trial of Alternative for Germany ( AfD ) party faction chairman in the regional parliament of Thuringia , Bjoern Hoecke , in Halle ( Saale ) , Germany , 24 June 2024 . It is the second time that Hoecke had to appear in court for the use of a banned Nazi slogan . Hoecke is accused of having shouted the slogan ' Alles fuer Deutschland ' ( Everything for Germany ) at an AfD rally in 2021 , a slogan that was used by Nazi-era SA stormtroopers and the use of which is a felony in modern Germany . EPA-EFE/CLEMENS BILAN <p> A handout still photo taken from a handout video provided by the Russian National Antiterrorism Committee shows a gun on a street during counterterrorist operation in Makhachkala , Republic of Dagestan , Russia , early 24 June 2024 . At least 15 Police officers and several other civilians were killed in attacks on two Orthodox churches , two synagogues and a traffic police station on 23 June , the head of Dagestan Sergey Melikov reported . The Dagestan National Anti-Terrorism Committee ( NAC ) has reported that five attackers were killed . The Committee is currently engaged in operational efforts to apprehend the remaining attackers and their aides . EPA-EFE/NATIONAL ANTITERRORISM COMMITTE <p> ( L-R ) Joseph Quinn and Lupita Nyong'o attend a NYC photocall in support of " A Quiet Place : Part One " at the Mandarin Oriental Hotel on June 23 , 2024 , in New York , New York . ( Photo by John Nacion/Getty Images for Paramount Pictures ) <p> American singer Doja Cat performs on the fourth and final day of Rock in Rio 2024 festival in Lisbon , Portugal , 23 June 2024 . EPA-EFE/ANTONIO PEDRO SANTOS <p> A model presents a creation from the Autumn/Winter 2024-25 Haute Couture collection by Lebanese designer Georges Hobeika during the Paris Fashion Week , in Paris , France , 24 June 2024 . The presentation of the Haute Couture collections runs from 24 to 27 June 2024 . EPA-EFE/ANDRE PAIN <p> A model presents a creation from the Autumn/Winter 2024-25 Haute Couture collection by Lebanese designer Georges Hobeika during the Paris Fashion Week , in Paris , France , 24 June 2024 . The presentation of the Haute Couture collections runs from 24 to 27 June 2024 . EPA-EFE/ANDRE PAIN <p> Chinese actress and singer Fan Bingbing poses for a picture during the Vogue World Photocall in Paris , France , 23 June 2024 . The presentation of the Men 's collections runs from 18 to 23 June . EPA-EFE/ANDRE PAIN <p> Dancers perform ahead of the ICC Men 's T20 Cricket World Cup West Indies &amp; USA 2024 Super Eight match between USA and England at Kensington Oval on June 23 , 2024 in Bridgetown , Barbados . ( Photo by Robert Cianflone/Getty Images ) . DM <h> Comments <p> " termid " : 387188 , " name " : " Maverick News " , " slug " : " maverick-news " , " termgroup " : 0 , " ... Africa " , " slug " : " south-africa " , " termgroup " : 0 , ... Maverick is an independent online news publication and weekly print newspaper in South Africa. rnrnIt is known for breaking some of the defining stories of South Africa in the past decade , including the Marikana Massacre , in which the South African Police Service killed 34 miners in August 2012. rnrnIt also investigated the Gupta Leaks , which won the 2019 Global Shining Light Award. rnrnThat investigation was credited with exposing the Indian-born Gupta family and former President Jacob Zuma for their role in the systemic political corruption referred to as state capture. rnrnIn 2018 , co-founder and editor-in-chief Branislav u2018Brankou2019 Brkic was awarded the countryu2019s prestigious Nat Nakasa Award , recognised for initiating the investigative collaboration after receiving the hard drive that included the email tranche. rnrnIn 2021 , co-founder and CEO Styli Charalambous also received the award. rnrnDaily Maverick covers the latest political and news developments in South Africa with breaking news updates , analysis , opinions and more . " , " parent " : 0 , " count " : 47369 , " filter " : " raw ... Maverick " , " slug " : " business-maverick " , " termgr ... Shein , Temu strike Takealot where it hurts as e-commerce giant grapples with loss <p> From 1 July , the South African Revenue Service will be tightening its grip on all clothing imports , which is likely to give the e-commerce giant a boost on its home turf . <p> The Takealot Group has incurred yet another massive loss , but is counting on tax amendments that will level the playing field . <p> The South African e-commerce giant , which houses the Takealot , Superbalist and Mr D brands , has been wrestling with a wave of competition from the east ( Shein and Temu ) , and the west ( Amazon ) as it battles to reach profitability . <p> But hope is on the horizon for the country 's e-commerce pioneer : from 1 July , the South African Revenue Service ( SARS ) will be tightening its grip on all clothing imports , which is likely to give the e-commerce giant a boost on its home turf . <p> Previously , customs duties for imported parcels under R500 were significantly lower ( 20% import duty , 0% VAT ) compared to larger shipments . Known as the " de minimis rule " , the loophole was allegedly exploited by some retailers . Temu and Shein , in particular , have been accused of splitting larger orders into smaller packages to qualify for the lower tax bracket . <p> To create a fairer playing field for all clothing retailers , SARS will now subject all clothing imports to a 45% import duty and an additional 15% VAT . <p> SARS has also said it is working with courier companies , which are using an incorrect customs code for small packages , to ensure the correct duties and VAT are applied . <p> Previously , retailers skirted the rules around taxation of parcels worth more than R500 by undervaluing small parcels in order to qualify for a lower import duty ( 20% ) and no VAT . This practice , says the National Clothing Retail Federation , gave these offshore businesses , which do not invest in the country or drive local employment , an unfair advantage and hurt local clothing producers . <p> Internet giant Naspers -- which owns the Takealot Group -- released its company results on Monday , revealing that the Takealot Group remains massively unprofitable . <p> The results for the year ended 31 March 2024 show that the group lost $14-million ( R253-million ) for the year . <p> Takealot has described the consumer environment as " challenging " , made worse by the rise of interest rates and high inflation . <p> Against this backdrop , it has delivered 3% growth in gross merchandise value -- the total value of merchandise sold in a given period of time -- 8% growth in revenue in local currency and reduced trading losses by $4-million from the previous year . <p> Mr D has also reached profitability for the first time , with a trading profit of $3-million . <p> South Africa 's online retail sector surged by 29% last year , reaching R71-billion . A recent World Wide Worx study predicts the sector will hit the R100-billion mark by 2026 , capturing 10% of all national retail sales . <h> The GNU must put people 's interests first , not tussles over positions or party squabbles <p> South Africa 's second government of national unity ( GNU ) must prioritise collaboration over power struggles to fulfil the promise of unity and progress that voters demanded in the recent elections , focusing on implementing evidence-based policies to eradicate poverty , create jobs , and build a more equal society . <p> Second government of national unity ( GNU ) formed in South Africa , a significant moment for democracy <p> Focus on collaboration and common purpose to improve lives of all South Africans <p> GNU must prioritize governance over power struggles , with emphasis on implementing Constitution and Bill of Rights <p> Commitment to principles of accountability , transparency , and economic growth to create jobs and build a more equal society <p> President Cyril Ramaphosa during the first sitting of the seventh National Assembly at the Cape Town International Convention Centre on 14 June 2024 . ( Photo : Shelley Christians ) <p> The formation of the second government of national unity ( GNU ) is a momentous development in South Africa 's democracy . <p> Every effort must be made to ensure the GNU remains true to its founding spirit of collaboration in good faith to drive a programme that improves the lives of all South Africa 's people . <p> South Africans made it clear with their votes in last month 's elections that they want their elected representatives to put aside narrow interests and work together to build the country . To do so , the GNU can not be preoccupied with jockeying for positions , tussles over appointments or squabbles within and between parties . <p> The success of the GNU will be measured by the extent to which we are prepared to focus not on who will govern , but on how we will govern , together . <p> The first GNU was established in 1994 to promote nation-building and inclusivity from a racially divided past during a period of political transition . Among its main tasks was to ensure the passage of a new democratic Constitution . <p> Giving effect to the principles of that Constitution and the Bill of Rights must be the overriding focus of this GNU . This will be done by pursuing a common programme to eradicate poverty and build a more equal society , to create jobs , and to make the government truly work for the people . <p> The GNU Statement of Intent provides a solid base for genuine cooperation between parties across the political spectrum who have signed up of their own accord . <p> The Statement of Intent commits the signatories to a set of foundational principles that include respect for constitutionalism ; accountability , transparency and community participation in government ; evidence-based policy and decision-making ; professionalisation of the public service ; integrity and good governance . <p> The parties to the GNU have agreed on priorities for the incoming administration . At the top of the list of priorities is the achievement of rapid , inclusive and sustainable economic growth to create jobs . <p> It will be critical that the GNU stays the course on the structural reform that is under way to improve the business operating environment and establish South Africa as an investment destination of choice . These reforms are necessary to resolve longstanding challenges in key industries and create more jobs and opportunities . We will need to build on the progress that has already been made , while accelerating the pace of reform . <p> The fact that there is broad consensus among the parties on the priorities of the incoming administration gives us encouragement that the GNU will indeed take the country forward . Emanating from the priorities outlined in the Statement of Intent , the parties will further refine the GNU 's programme , including through the proposed National Dialogue process . <p> We remain committed to consensus-building and to the representation of a broad range of interests and viewpoints within government . At the same time , we are all keenly aware that South Africans expect action , implementation and results . <p> In a robust defence of the first government of national unity in 1994 , President Nelson Mandela described it as an enduring national consensus " that is neither an imposition of one party over others , nor a honeymoon premised on the fickle whims of a fleeting romance " . The same is true today . <p> As parties finalise the modalities of the GNU guided by the Statement of Intent , the days and weeks that lie ahead will be crucial . <p> The country 's hopes are pinned on the success of the GNU . Our stated commitment to work together constructively and for South Africa 's benefit has generated a great deal of goodwill that we should not squander . <p> South Africans are watching . We should not waste our energies on those who stand in the way of our country 's progress or lose momentum over differences that can be resolved . <p> We need to demonstrate in both word and deed that our programme is clear , coherent and sustainable , that our collaboration is genuine , and that the interests of the people will always come first . DM <p> This is the President 's weekly letter to the nation , released on Monday . <h> Comments <p> " termid " : 387188 , " name " : " Maverick News " , " slug " : " maverick-news " , " termgroup " : 0 , " ... Africa " , " slug " : " south-africa " , " termgroup " : 0 , ... Maverick is an independent online news publication and weekly print newspaper in South Africa. rnrnIt is known for breaking some of the defining stories of South Africa in the past decade , including the Marikana Massacre , in which the South African Police Service killed 34 miners in August 2012. rnrnIt also investigated the Gupta Leaks , which won the 2019 Global Shining Light Award. rnrnThat investigation was credited with exposing the Indian-born Gupta family and former President Jacob Zuma for their role in the systemic political corruption referred to as state capture. rnrnIn 2018 , co-founder and editor-in-chief Branislav u2018Brankou2019 Brkic was awarded the countryu2019s prestigious Nat Nakasa Award , recognised for initiating the investigative collaboration after receiving the hard drive that included the email tranche. rnrnIn 2021 , co-founder and CEO Styli Charalambous also received the award. rnrnDaily Maverick covers the latest political and news developments in South Africa with breaking news updates , analysis , opinions and more . " , " parent " : 0 , " count " : 47369 , " filter " : " raw ... Then there were 10 -- unity government hits double digits while talks continue over Cabinet posts <p> Rise Mzansi and Al Jama-ah join the Government of National Unity , which now totals 10 parties . <p> Rise Mzansi and Al Jama-ah became the latest parties to join the Government of National Unity ( GNU ) , marking a significant milestone in the country 's political landscape as it brings the total number of parties participating in the GNU to 10 of the 18 parties in the National Assembly . <p> Rise Mzansi 's decision to join the GNU was made after internal party discussions , which aimed to ensure that its key manifesto issues were prioritised in the government . <p> Makashule Gana , Rise Mzansi 's chief organiser , emphasised that the party 's decision to join the GNU was not driven by a desire for Cabinet positions , but by a commitment to its policy goals . <p> " We will accept the responsibility of serving the people of this country in the same way that we have accepted the responsibility to be members of Parliament in service of the South African people . " <p> Gana also clarified that the party 's involvement in the GNU did not exempt it from its duty to hold the executive accountable . <p> " We did not sell that responsibility of holding government to account by signing the statement of intent . That 's not what 's on the table . " <p> Rise Mzansi believes the GNU can help it implement aspects of its manifesto , including addressing hunger , food insecurity and crime and delivering economic justice to marginalised South Africans . <h> Expanding the GNU coalition <p> The inclusion of Rise Mzansi and Al Jama-ah brings the number of GNU members to 10 . They join the ranks of the African National Congress ( ANC ) , Democratic Alliance ( DA ) , Inkatha Freedom Party ( IFP ) , Patriotic Alliance ( PA ) , Good , the Pan Africanist Congress ( PAC ) , Freedom Front Plus ( FF+ ) and the United Democratic Movement ( UDM ) . <p> The seventh-largest party in Parliament , the FF+ , which joined the GNU on Thursday , echoed a similar sentiment to Rise Mzansi , stating that its participation in the GNU was based on influencing policy rather than seeking positions . <p> " We signed the agreement of intent on that basis , and we will participate in the processes such as the national dialogue to influence the policy direction , " the party 's elections head , Wouter Wessels , told Daily Maverick . <p> " Positions are not a condition and if offered such , our structures will consider if those positions will serve our policy ideals and electorate . " <p> Formed after the 29 May elections , the GNU aims to provide a collaborative platform to address South Africa 's pressing issues , such as poverty , inequality and corruption . With the addition of Rise Mzansi , Al Jama-ah and other parties , the GNU now has a more comprehensive representation and a stronger mandate to drive positive change . <p> The ANC welcomed the expansion , noting that the first phase of parties joining the GNU has concluded with 10 parties now on board , representing more than 70% of the vote in the 2024 elections . <p> " These parties have agreed to be bound by the foundational principles outlined in the Statement of Intent and to work together to pursue its objectives . " <h> Impact on Cabinet formations <p> The entry of new parties into the GNU has implications for Cabinet formations at both national and provincial levels . <p> President Cyril Ramaphosa was expected to announce his Cabinet on Sunday , but this did not happen as discussions are ongoing . <p> Sunday Times reported that the DA has been unhappy with what the ANC has offered in negotiations and is pushing for substantial representation , including key economic portfolios and the appointment of DA leader John Steenhuisen as deputy president . <p> The ANC has reportedly told the DA that with more parties joining the GNU , fewer Cabinet posts are available . <p> Gauteng Premier Panyaza Lesufi postponed announcing his new cabinet on Sunday , citing the need for more time to finalise negotiations . <p> " When negotiators requested an extension , I felt it was reasonable , " Lesufi said , dismissing reports of disagreements over the distribution of MEC positions . <p> Lesufi was elected with support from the DA and IFP . According to reports , he planned to announce a cabinet that gave the DA no MEC positions after discussions with the party deadlocked . <h> Opposition <p> The EFF remains firm in its stance against joining any government that includes what it describes as " white supremacist political parties " . <p> " We will continue to serve South Africa from the opposition with vigour and dedication , " the party said . <p> The uMkhonto Wesizwe ( MK ) party , which missed the first sitting of the National Assembly , is scheduled to be sworn in this week . Parliament confirmed that the Chief Justice or a designated judge will oversee the swearing-in of these members . <p> In a surprising and controversial development , former Western Cape Judge President John Hlophe , who was recently impeached , is set to lead the MK party in the National Assembly . DM <h> Comments <p> " termid " : 29 , " name " : " South Africa " , " slug " : " south-africa " , " termgroup " : 0 , ... Maverick is an independent online news publication and weekly print newspaper in South Africa. rnrnIt is known for breaking some of the defining stories of South Africa in the past decade , including the Marikana Massacre , in which the South African Police Service killed 34 miners in August 2012. rnrnIt also investigated the Gupta Leaks , which won the 2019 Global Shining Light Award. rnrnThat investigation was credited with exposing the Indian-born Gupta family and former President Jacob Zuma for their role in the systemic political corruption referred to as state capture. rnrnIn 2018 , co-founder and editor-in-chief Branislav u2018Brankou2019 Brkic was awarded the countryu2019s prestigious Nat Nakasa Award , recognised for initiating the investigative collaboration after receiving the hard drive that included the email tranche. rnrnIn 2021 , co-founder and CEO Styli Charalambous also received the award. rnrnDaily Maverick covers the latest political and news developments in South Africa with breaking news updates , analysis , opinions and more . " , " parent " : 0 , " count " : 47369 , " filter " : " raw ... Maverick " , " slug " : " business-maverick " , " termgr ... Students with a knack for economics can vie for hefty cash rewards in the Nedbank &amp; Old Mutual Budget Speech Competition , with past winner Charvana Naidoo crediting her victory for propelling her into the world of corporate investment banking , offering a chance for aspiring scholars to delve into the complexities of public debt and economic growth in South Africa amidst the intriguing backdrop of potential coalition governance . <p> This year 's competition topics focus on public debt impact and economic growth prospects in South Africa , offering prizes up to R150,000 . <p> Previous winner Charvana Naidoo , who took top honours in 2023 . ( Photo : Supplied ) <p> Aspiring students with an interest in the economy and financial markets have a chance to win big cash prizes in the Nedbank &amp; Old Mutual Budget Speech Competition , which is open for entries until 31 July . <p> Previous winner Charvana Naidoo , who took top honours in 2023 , says it marked a " significant turning point " in her career , which led to her entering Nedbank 's corporate investment banking graduate programme . Her winning essay examined South Africa 's medium-term economic growth prospects by analysing the major contributing factors to economic growth in the medium term between 2002 and 2007 and from 2015 to 2019 . <p> She joins previous winners Isaah Mhlanga , chief economist at RMB , and Ingrid Woolard , Dean of the Faculty of Economic and Management Sciences at Stellenbosch University . Woolardis a research Fellow of the Institute for the Study of Labour based in Bonn , a senior research associate at the United Nations University World Institute for Development Economics Research in Helsinki , a research associate of the Commitment to Equity Institute at Tulane University in New Orleans , Louisiana , and a board member of the Partnership for Economic Policy in Kenya . <p> " There was a fair amount of research that I put into my essay , and I went down a slightly different road , looking at labour policies as being one of the major contributing factors to South Africa 's economic growth , " Naidoo says . <p> Having graduated with a degree in behavioural psychology and economics on a bursary , she put her prize money towards accommodation and her first step to independence as a graduate analyst . <p> " I wanted to start standing on my own two feet , being less dependent on my parents , and forging my own path , " she says . <p> Naidoo says being in the graduate programme has been a huge learning curve on its own . <p> " I find myself doing everything from financial modelling to interacting with clients and getting an understanding of different companies , to figuring out how you can grow a company , to reading legal agreements , which I never thought I 'd find myself doing , " she says . <p> This year , undergraduates entering the competition will be asked to : " Discuss the impact of public debt on government finances in developing economies , focusing on South Africa " . <p> Postgraduate students will be answering this question : " What are the prospects for medium-term economic growth in South Africa against the background of the possibility of a coalition government at a national government level ? " <p> Postgrad students are challenged to analyse and predict the future economic trajectory of South Africa , considering the political landscape and the possibility of coalition governance . <p> Prizes range from R20,000 to R60,000 in the undergraduate category and from R50,000 to R150,000 in the postgraduate category . <p> Naidoo says the competition allowed her to apply the theory she had learnt to a real-life scenario . <p> " Youth are the future and our solutions deserve to be heard , so it 's great we have this platform . Students who are entering the competition need to bear in mind the value of perseverance , embrace the learning journey , regardless of the outcome , and use this experience to refine their skills and expand their network . " DM <h> Comments <p> " termid " : 387188 , " name " : " Maverick News " , " slug " : " maverick-news " , " termgroup " : 0 , " ... Africa " , " slug " : " south-africa " , " termgroup " : 0 , ... Maverick is an independent online news publication and weekly print newspaper in South Africa. rnrnIt is known for breaking some of the defining stories of South Africa in the past decade , including the Marikana Massacre , in which the South African Police Service killed 34 miners in August 2012. rnrnIt also investigated the Gupta Leaks , which won the 2019 Global Shining Light Award. rnrnThat investigation was credited with exposing the Indian-born Gupta family and former President Jacob Zuma for their role in the systemic political corruption referred to as state capture. rnrnIn 2018 , co-founder and editor-in-chief Branislav u2018Brankou2019 Brkic was awarded the countryu2019s prestigious Nat Nakasa Award , recognised for initiating the investigative collaboration after receiving the hard drive that included the email tranche. rnrnIn 2021 , co-founder and CEO Styli Charalambous also received the award. rnrnDaily Maverick covers the latest political and news developments in South Africa with breaking news updates , analysis , opinions and more . " , " parent " : 0 , " count " : 47369 , " filter " : " raw ... Maverick " , " slug " : " business-maverick " , " termgr ... Roasted again -- more cocaine hidden with chicken , destined for SA , intercepted in Brazil <p> In October 2023 , in one of several similar interceptions , Brazilian authorities found a stash of cocaine concealed in a consignment of chicken , headed for South Africa on a ship . Now it has happened again . <p> Two containers of chicken meat intercepted at Brazil 's Port of Paranagu ? , one bound for South Africa and the other for the Netherlands , revealed 86kg of cocaine hidden in the fridge engine sections . <p> Brazil 's Federal Revenue Service reported that 51kg of the cocaine was destined for South Africa , with the rest intended for the Netherlands , marking the seventh cocaine interception at Paranagu ? this year . <p> Daily Maverick has extensively covered the history of cocaine smuggling between South Africa and Brazil , with recent busts revealing traffickers ' use of chicken meat shipments as cover for drug trafficking . <p> An international crackdown on drug cartels , involving police forces from multiple countries , led to 40 arrests , including in Spain , targeting a criminal network orchestrating multi-tonne cocaine trafficking from South America to the EU via logistical hubs in Africa and the Canary Islands . <p> Cocaine , some of it destined for South Africa , was intercepted in Brazil in June 2024 when the drug was discovered hidden in containers with frozen chicken . ( Photo : Brazil 's Federal Revenue Service ) <p> Two containers of chicken meat -- one destined for South Africa , the other for the Netherlands -- were intercepted at Brazil 's Port of Paranagu ? last week . <p> The bust highlights how traffickers keep trying to use well-tried methods and routes to push the drug around the world , including to this country . <p> Daily Maverick has reported on previous shipments of cocaine , due to be trafficked to and through South Africa , being discovered in the port city where narco traffickers are involved in deadly turf wars . <p> The latest bust on 10 June was also not the first to be travelling incognito with chicken meat . <p> Towards the end of 2023 , cocaine worth R151-million , smuggled from Brazil , was discovered hidden in meat boxes in a cold storage facility at Durban harbour . About two months before that , 16kg of the drug was intercepted at the Paranagu ? port . <p> Ten kilograms of a substance , believed to be cocaine , was discovered on a ship in Brazil in April 2024 . The consignment was destined for South Africa . ( Photo : Brazil Federal Police ) <h> Cape Town connection <p> At the time , Brazil 's Federal Revenue Service said " the drug was concealed in the refrigerated engine of a container loaded with frozen chicken that was destined for South Africa " . <p> In April 2023 , cocaine worth R84-million was found in a container in the Airport Industria area near Cape Town International Airport . There , too , the discovery was made after suspicions were raised about a container filled with boxes of poultry . <p> Before that , in February 2023 , a container packed with 27 tonnes of chicken gizzards and due to be shipped from Brazil to Durban was found to contain cocaine concealed in its fridge engine . <p> Evidence collected by Daily Maverick indicates traffickers favour Durban as the South African destination through which to channel their drugs . In Brazil , the ports of Santos and Paranagu ? are among those preferred . <p> In April , a dock worker was arrested at Santos after Brazilian authorities found 10kg of a substance that appeared to be cocaine hidden under his clothes and in a backpack . The Brazilian police said the drug was destined for South Africa . <p> Meanwhile , an international crackdown on drug cartels , carried out over three years and involving police forces in several countries , including Brazil , was wrapped up last week . <p> A total of 40 arrests were made during the operation -- four of them in Spain as recently as 12 June . <p> Europol , the European Union 's ( EU ) law enforcement agency , announced last week that a " criminal network , which was orchestrating multi-tonne cocaine trafficking from Colombia , Brazil and Ecuador to the EU " , had been the target . <p> The Europol statement said : " Brazilian authorities targeted the Brazilian criminal organisation that had been transporting cocaine inland from source countries to seaports in Brazil and other logistical hubs . " <h> Shipping through logistical hubs <p> The statement added that sea routes were used to traffic the drugs . <p> " The suspects arranged the trafficking into the EU through maritime shipments going via logistical hubs in west Africa and the Canary Islands , " it said . <p> " Once the drugs had reached the EU , the suspects used handling centres in Belgium , Croatia , Germany , Italy and Spain to further distribute cocaine across Europe . " <p> The alleged leaders of the trafficking organisation had once been based in Dubai and Turkey . <p> Europol did not reveal the identities of suspects or detained individuals . <p> The United Arab Emirates city of Dubai has a reputation for attracting criminal suspects . <h> Comments <p> " termid " : 29 , " name " : " South Africa " , " slug " : " south-africa " , " termgroup " : 0 , ... Maverick is an independent online news publication and weekly print newspaper in South Africa. rnrnIt is known for breaking some of the defining stories of South Africa in the past decade , including the Marikana Massacre , in which the South African Police Service killed 34 miners in August 2012. rnrnIt also investigated the Gupta Leaks , which won the 2019 Global Shining Light Award. rnrnThat investigation was credited with exposing the Indian-born Gupta family and former President Jacob Zuma for their role in the systemic political corruption referred to as state capture. rnrnIn 2018 , co-founder and editor-in-chief Branislav u2018Brankou2019 Brkic was awarded the countryu2019s prestigious Nat Nakasa Award , recognised for initiating the investigative collaboration after receiving the hard drive that included the email tranche. rnrnIn 2021 , co-founder and CEO Styli Charalambous also received the award. rnrnDaily Maverick covers the latest political and news developments in South Africa with breaking news updates , analysis , opinions and more . " , " parent " : 0 , " count " : 47369 , " filter " : " raw ... Citizen " , " slug " : " maverick-citizen " , " termgrou ... Eastern Cape Premier Oscar Mabuyane shuffles the provincial cabinet , separating economic development from finance in a bid to revitalise the province , while vowing to tackle unemployment , poverty and the aftermath of a devastating flood in Kariega . <p> Eastern Cape Premier Oscar Mabuyane has separated the economic development , environmental affairs and tourism department from the finance portfolio to improve the financial future of the struggling province . <p> Mabuyane announced the new provincial cabinet in Bhisho on Friday . He said he did not believe in fixing things that were not broken and retained most of his exco team , adding that lifestyle audits had already been carried out on most of them . <p> Mabuyane said that since the ANC won 62% of votes in the election , he did not have to negotiate . <p> " There is no PGU provincial government of unity here , " he said . <p> " Thank you for the unambiguous vote of confidence . We will do more , better and faster . It is make or break for us now . <p> " People have affirmed their trust in the ANC , " he said and vowed ( once again ) to address unemployment and poverty . <p> Mabuyane said the previous government , his first as premier , had created a solid foundation for the new government to build on . <p> He had made economic development a separate department to ensure " special attention to the creation of jobs " in the province . The hard-working former MEC of agriculture in the province , Nonkqubela Pieters , was appointed as the MEC for economic development , environmental affairs and tourism department . <p> The announcement came on the heels of a R5-billion skills development programme for the province , launched on 16 June . <p> Mabuyane said his focus this term would be on the establishment of a special economic zone along the Wild Coast . The province 's partnerships with subsistence farmers would continue , he said , and he hoped agriculture would provide a significant economic boost to the province . <p> " If you have land you must wake up and do something , " he said . <p> He added that a pressing priority for the new government would be the rebuilding of the town of Kariega , which was devastated by a flood earlier in June . Preliminary reports indicate that the flash flood , after more than 200mm of rain fell in the town in a single night , caused damage of R5-billion . <p> Home to the headquarters of Volkswagen and other component manufacturers , the town is key to the automotive manufacturing industry in the Nelson Mandela Bay metro . <p> Singling Fanta out for her hard work , Mabuyane said he wished he had " more Fantas " in his team . <p> Mabuyane said he had considered whether the transport MEC could be responsible for the scholar transport problems in the province but came to the conclusion they were the fault of the Department of Education . However , the latter department is in the premier 's good books after the province recorded much-improved matric results in 2023 . <p> Mabuyane combined the portfolios of public works and human settlements into a single portfolio , saying the plan was to build more houses and to ensure people receiving these homes would have schools and clinics . <p> He said he was hoping for a sharp reduction in service delivery protests in the province . <p> In a veiled reference to the violent taxi protests in Mthatha that saw the N2 closed for hours on the first day of special votes in the May election , Mabuyane said : " You must understand that protests have serious consequences . If the N2 is closed for five hours a day you are putting jobs at risk . The economy is very sensitive at the moment . " <p> In a major setback for the province that already has the highest unemployment levels in the country , Mercedes-Benz announced on 13 June that it was starting retrenchment procedures at its East London factory that would affect 700 people . <p> Mabuyane said on Friday that they were " working with Mercedes to mitigate the impact " . <p> Mabuyane said they were putting every possible structure in place to fix the struggling Department of Health . <p> It is an open secret in the Bhisho Legislature that nobody wants to be the MEC for health . <p> Mabuyane appointed Ntandokazi Capa , the ANC Women 's League chair in the Eastern Cape , to this position . She replaces Nomakhosazana Meth who is now a member of Parliament . <p> Capa topped the list for the Bhisho Legislature for the May elections . <p> She was elected provincial Women 's League chair in 2023 and served as the OR Tambo District Municipality Speaker . <p> " This is one department that we must address , " Mabuyane said . " We have to find a solution . " <p> The department is in a dire financial situation , battling many problems including stock-outs and staff shortages . <p> Other troubled departments are human settlements -- which the new MEC for infrastructure and human settlements , Siphokazi Lusithi , headed in the previous government -- and public works , both of which were cited by the Public Protector for their unconstitutional failure to deliver services and asked to return with recovery plans . <p> Other MECs are Sibulele Ngongo for sport , recreation , arts &amp; culture ; and Nonceba Kontsiwe , who was appointed to replace Peters in the Department of Rural Development and Agrarian Reform . <h> ' Matter of urgency ' <p> Vicky Knoetze , the leader of the Democratic Alliance , the official opposition in the province , said the new cabinet members had their work cut out for them . <p> She said the DA welcomed the decision to split the Department of Finance from the Department of Economic Development , Environmental Affairs , and Tourism . <p> " The Eastern Cape has the highest unemployment rate in the country , so it is vital that the government builds a province that will attract investment and create jobs . <p> " This includes tackling the province 's significant road maintenance backlog , which Premier Mabuyane recently admitted would take at least 50 years to clear . It is vital that Xolile Nqatha , the reappointed MEC of roads and transport , find innovative ways of addressing these challenges . <p> " The DA has also noted the appointment of Ntandokazi Capa to the position of MEC for health . This is a huge portfolio for a new , as yet untested member of the legislature . Capa will have her work cut out for her as she tackles the systemic problems in her department , and the DA will closely monitor her performance , " said Knoetze . <p> She said they were worried about the decision to combine the human settlements department with public works , under MEC Siphokazi Lusithi . <p> " Both departments have failed to deliver on their respective mandates for years . While the merger makes sense in theory , public works has failed to deliver on critical infrastructure projects for several years , while human settlements has consistently failed to deliver on housing targets . Both departments lack project management skills , and this must be addressed as a matter of urgency . " DM <p> You know I hate to waste leftovers , although it would be disingenuous of me not to admit that there are times when I intentionally make too much of something to be sure that there is something left over to play with the next day . <p> Like , whenever I cook potatoes . Last night , for instance , I parboiled six potatoes knowing full well I only needed three or four for the roasties we were having with a chicken I was roasting with rosemary and lemon in the air fryer . There are times when leftover recipes need some planning and forethought . So there 'll be potato of some kind with breakfast tomorrow . <p> But bacon can scheme its way into this breakfast recipe too . ' Bacon bits ' , as they are generally marketed , are not often the best alternative , and their prices are hardly any lower than you 'll pay for a pack of rashers . They tend to be chunky rather than tiny bits that can become like crumbs when fried . Which is better . So rather buy rashers , cook them , and then chop them up . <p> Start a bit early , so that there 's time for the patties to firm up in the fridge for a while . <p> Tony 's ? ? bacon and potato cakes <p> ( Makes 6 ) <p> Ingredients <p> 4 rashers of bacon ( any kind ) <p> 500 g mashed potato ( give or take ) <p> 2 or 3 chives , chopped <p> 2 Tbsp flour <p> 1 large egg , beaten <p> Salt and pepper to taste <p> Oil and butter for frying <p> Method <p> Presuming that the mashed potato has been in the fridge , take it out soon after you wake up so that the potatoes lighten a little . They get a bit claggy in the fridge . <p> Fry the bacon rashers in a touch of oil until crisp but not ' glassy ' , with the fat especially nice and golden brown . Chop it into small bits . <p> In a bowl , using a fork ( easiest , I think ) , mix the mashed potato with salt , pepper , the chopped chives , flour , and stir in the bacon bits . <p> Quickly beat an egg with a fork and stir it in . <p> Divide into 6 more or less equal parts ( first in three , then each of those separated into another two ) . Something like that ( arithmetic is not my strong suit ) . <p> Shape them into patties ( a lot of patting them in your hands is needed , which is why they 're called patties ) . They should be about 1.5 cm thick . Put them on a plate in the fridge for half an hour . <p> Melt butter in a frying pan , add a little oil , and when hot , fry the patties until golden on both sides , turning once . The heat should be neither too low nor so high that they brown too quickly . Try to resist lifting them up too soon , or they might fall apart . <p> Fry an egg or two per serving and pop them on top of the patties or alongside . Garnish with parsley or chives . DM <h> Comments <p> " termid " : 387188 , " name " : " Maverick News " , " slug " : " maverick-news " , " termgroup " : 0 , " ... Africa " , " slug " : " south-africa " , " termgroup " : 0 , ... Maverick is an independent online news publication and weekly print newspaper in South Africa. rnrnIt is known for breaking some of the defining stories of South Africa in the past decade , including the Marikana Massacre , in which the South African Police Service killed 34 miners in August 2012. rnrnIt also investigated the Gupta Leaks , which won the 2019 Global Shining Light Award. rnrnThat investigation was credited with exposing the Indian-born Gupta family and former President Jacob Zuma for their role in the systemic political corruption referred to as state capture. rnrnIn 2018 , co-founder and editor-in-chief Branislav u2018Brankou2019 Brkic was awarded the countryu2019s prestigious Nat Nakasa Award , recognised for initiating the investigative collaboration after receiving the hard drive that included the email tranche. rnrnIn 2021 , co-founder and CEO Styli Charalambous also received the award. rnrnDaily Maverick covers the latest political and news developments in South Africa with breaking news updates , analysis , opinions and more . " , " parent " : 0 , " count " : 47369 , " filter " : " raw ... Proteas through to T20 World Cup semifinals after narrow win over West Indies <p> Proteas defy the odds in a nail-biting win over West Indies , securing a spot in the T20 World Cup semifinals with a dramatic three-wicket victory , as South Africa 's spinners shine and Marco Jansen 's cool under pressure seals the deal . <p> It 's a story as old as World Cup cricket for South Africa , but this time the Proteas came out on top in a thrilling three-wicket win over T20 World Cup co-hosts West Indies to advance to the semifinals at the Sir Vivian Richards Stadium in Antigua and Barbuda . <p> West Indies , subsequently , have been knocked out of the competition as Monday morning 's result ensures defending champions England are the other team from Group 2 of the Super Eight groups to advance to the semifinals . <p> The Proteas served up another thrilling encounter , almost losing the match from winning positions on several occasions , but a calm knock -- an unbeaten 21 off 14 deliveries by Marco Jansen -- in the face of a storm of pressure was enough to help the South Africans remain undefeated in the tournament . <p> The Proteas were on 92 for the loss of four wickets at the end of the 11th over with David Miller and Tristan Stubbs at the crease . They needed another 31 runs from 36 balls to seal their spot in the semifinal . <p> But , like so many times before in the tournament , they made the situation sticky for themselves . <p> The off-spin of Roston Chase caused the damage as he took three wickets for 12 runs in the end phase of the Proteas ' chase , including the wickets of Miller , Stubbs and Keshav Maharaj . <p> With nine runs required off seven balls , Kagiso Rabada smacked a glorious cover drive for four off Chase 's final delivery of the match before Jansen lofted Obed McCoy for six straight down the ground to clinch the win for the Proteas . <p> When asked who he preferred as semifinal opponents , skipper Aiden Markram said his focus is on his own side . <p> " I 'm not even following the other group , " he said after the clash on Monday . Whoever it might be , we have n't played our best game of cricket yet , so we 'll try and put our best game together for that semi . " <h> Death by spin <p> Shamsi was brought in for Ottniel Baartman for the clash against West Indies and it proved a masterstroke as the left-arm wrist spinner ended the match with the player of the match award , picking up three wickets for 27 runs . <p> The wicket was conducive enough to spin bowling that Markram bowled his full quota of overs up front , picking up the important wicket of Nicholas Pooran . <p> Rabada , the side 's regular spearhead bowler , was only introduced in the 28th over for the first time and only bowled two overs , although excellently executed at the death . <p> In total , there were 12 overs of spin by the Proteas with Markram and Maharaj spinning their web around the Windies batters . Collectively they took five wickets and only conceded 79 runs . <p> But middle-order batter Chase held the innings together for the West Indies , striking an excellent half-century , before he perished trying to take on the gripping spin of Shamsi . <p> There was no late flourish for the Caribbean side either as wickets fell in regular intervals , with Jansen , Maharaj and Rabada collecting one each along with Shamsi and Markam 's sticks . <p> " We 've been doing really well , the bowling unit has been firing for us , which has been fantastic , " Markram said after the match . <h> Shaky batting <p> South Africa got off to a shaky start , chasing 136 to secure their spot in the semifinal of a T20 World Cup for the first time since 2014 . <p> After Quinton de Kock had struck 12 off the first over , in the form of three fours , by the left-arm orthodox spin of Akeal Hosein , both he and Reeza Hendricks were sent back to the dugout in the next over by Andre Russell . <p> But as De Kock fell , on the last delivery of the second over , the rain began to fall in Antigua and Barbuda and the teams went off for an hour and 15-minute rain break . <p> South Africa 's target was revised to 123 in 17 overs and Markram ( 18 off 15 ) and Stubbs ( 29 off 27 ) looked comfortable , getting the team close with a 27-run stand after the break . <p> Heinrich Klaasen ( 22 off 10 ) put his foot on the accelerator when he stepped to the crease but could n't see the team home either as Alzarri Joseph dismissed both him and Markram before him . <p> Miller ( four off 14 ) completely struggled to find his feet at the crease but the run rate remained in control . <p> Until Chase 's wily off-spin was introduced that turned the match on its head . <p> " From a batting point of view we need to be more clinical and understanding when the right time is to really take the game on and when the right time is to knock it around for a few overs , " Markram said . <p> South Africa , though , as close as they may have come to losing , have squeezed yet another win out of their T20 World Cup campaign . DM <h> Comments <p> " termid " : 387188 , " name " : " Maverick News " , " slug " : " maverick-news " , " termgroup " : 0 , " ... Africa " , " slug " : " south-africa " , " termgroup " : 0 , ... Maverick is an independent online news publication and weekly print newspaper in South Africa. rnrnIt is known for breaking some of the defining stories of South Africa in the past decade , including the Marikana Massacre , in which the South African Police Service killed 34 miners in August 2012. rnrnIt also investigated the Gupta Leaks , which won the 2019 Global Shining Light Award. rnrnThat investigation was credited with exposing the Indian-born Gupta family and former President Jacob Zuma for their role in the systemic political corruption referred to as state capture. rnrnIn 2018 , co-founder and editor-in-chief Branislav u2018Brankou2019 Brkic was awarded the countryu2019s prestigious Nat Nakasa Award , recognised for initiating the investigative collaboration after receiving the hard drive that included the email tranche. rnrnIn 2021 , co-founder and CEO Styli Charalambous also received the award. rnrnDaily Maverick covers the latest political and news developments in South Africa with breaking news updates , analysis , opinions and more . " , " parent " : 0 , " count " : 47369 , " filter " : " raw ... Maverick " , " slug " : " business-maverick " , " termgr ... Cabinet announcement expected on Sunday or early next week as ANC , DA , PA table first wish lists <p> Negotiators in the Government of National Unity are gearing up for intense discussions to finalise Cabinet appointments , with the ANC keen on holding on to key portfolios while the DA eyes strategic positions to drive economic growth and reform , all while navigating delicate political waters to avoid public squabbles . <p> Negotiators for parties in the Government of National Unity ( GNU ) to finalise Cabinet and executive roles by Sunday or early next week . <p> ANC aims to retain key portfolios , including economics and security , with Deputy President Paul Mashatile likely to stay . <p> DA seeks control of economic enabler departments for growth and job creation , eyes ministries for party leader John Steenhuisen and key members like Leon Schreiber . <p> PA wants home affairs or police portfolios to implement election promises , but faces constitutional challenges in the GNU . <p> Cyril Ramaphosa acknowledges applause after his election as President of the 7th Parliament of South Africa on 14 June 2024 . Flanking him are Paul Mashatile ( left ) and Mdumiseni Ntuli ( right ) . ( Photo : Phando Jikelo / Parliament of SA ) <p> Negotiators for parties in the Government of National Unity ( GNU ) will hunker down from Friday , 21 June , to reach an agreement on the Cabinet and other executive roles . Appointments are expected to be announced on Sunday or early next week . <p> While President Cyril Ramaphosa can take as long as he likes to form a government , an ANC official said the party did not want to leave a power vacuum , while capital markets also needed direction . Officials said Ramaphosa and DA leader John Steenhuisen would meet on Friday . <h> What the ANC wants <p> The ANC does not want to give up any of the economics or security portfolios and wants to keep the Presidency intact for itself . The consensus is that Deputy President Paul Mashatile stays . <p> The party wants to retain Naledi Pandor as international relations minister at least until SA hosts the G20 next year . For this , Ramaphosa will have to use one of two positions he can make from outside as she did not get back in as an MP . <p> Finance Minister Enoch Godongwana has won the broad support not only of business and labour , but also of the DA and other parties . He is likely to stay , as is Minister in the Presidency Maropene Ramokgopa . Also likely to stay are Mineral Resources and Energy Minister Gwede Mantashe and Electricity Minister Kgosientso Ramokgopa . However , Mantashe may lose the energy part of his portfolio and this could see a portfolio consolidation . <h> What the DA wants <p> The DA wants control of economic enabler departments to achieve growth and create jobs as soon as possible , according to officials . It also wants the position of minister in the Presidency for party leader John Steenhuisen to work with the Operation Vulindlela team , which is achieving solid reform in energy and logistics . <p> As a second negotiation push , it would like to run the ministry responsible for local government ( cooperative governance and traditional affairs ) and the Department of Public Service and Administration , which is overseeing reform legislation that will make cadre deployment impossible or more difficult . Officials and news reports have also suggested the party would like to run the Department of Water Affairs and Sanitation because water shedding ( rotational water cuts ) is adversely affecting most SA cities and provinces . <p> DA MP Leon Schreiber has campaigned against cadre deployment and would be a good fit at the Department of Public Service and Administration , but the public servants ' union Nehawu would baulk at this . The department is the government 's chief wage negotiator and it usually caves in to Nehawu 's demands because the union is an ANC ally . <p> Others in consideration include Mat Cuthbert , the party 's policy chief , or MP Dean Macpherson for the post of minister of trade , industry and competition . <p> The party could also consider deputy minister positions at the departments of finance , health and a delivery department , where young leaders like Chief Whip Siviwe Gwarube , Deputy Federal Chairperson Ashor Sarupen and national spokesperson and MP Solly Malatsi can do well . <p> The ANC is unlikely to concede the role of deputy finance minister because the portfolio controls the Public Investment Corporation , South Africa 's largest asset manager . It also does n't want to concede health because of the upcoming National Health Insurance . <h> What the PA wants <p> The PA 's deputy president , Kenny Kunene , said the party would like the home affairs or police portfolios so it can implement its election promises to deport undocumented immigrants and fight crime and drugs . <p> " We 'll see what the President has to offer . They might offer us one ministerial post and a deputy minister role , " said Kunene . <p> The PA 's position on migrants is unconstitutional and would fall foul of the foundational principles of the GNU , specifically the clause which upholds " Respect for the Constitution , the Bill of Rights in its entirety , a united South Africa and the rule of law . " <h> No more quarrelling in public ... for now <p> On Thursday , the ANC and DA met and agreed not to quarrel in public after an interview on SABC by Clement Manyathela with the party 's lead negotiator , Helen Zille , went viral . Zille objected to the ANC including the PA in the GNU . <p> The ANC said it sent a draft of the statement of intent to 12 parties , many of whom are now joining the GNU . It sees the GNU as ANC-led , a position likely to require nifty negotiation in the days ahead as the DA believes that it ( the DA ) should be consulted about the width and composition of a unity government . <p> The statement of intent says , " The GNU shall be constituted in a manner that reflects genuine inclusiveness of political parties that are party to this statement ... In keeping with the spirit of an inclusive GNU it is agreed that the composition be discussed and agreed amongst the existing parties , whenever new parties desire to be part of the GNU . " <p> The ANC official said the statement of intent it signed with the DA , the negotiation of which went down to the wire as the Chief Justice convened the sitting to elect a Speaker and President on Friday , 14 June , was more like an " MOU memorandum of understanding " than a final contract . <p> The official said it was the President 's constitutional prerogative to appoint a Cabinet : " There is no way the statement of intent can override the Constitution . " <p> A DA official said Zille 's interview was strategic and part of the cut and thrust of negotiations . " There 's sabre-rattling on both sides . " He said ANC Secretary-General Fikile Mbalula had not shown up for a meeting and the DA needed to show that it had to be taken seriously . <p> For its part , the ANC believes Zille is piqued because her preference for a " confidence and supply " power-sharing agreement where the ANC kept the executive in return for the DA getting leadership roles in Parliament did not win the day . <p> " We are doing something that has never been done before . I am confident we will find a way through . None of us wants South Africa to fall apart . We are finding each other , " said Zille . <p> In a statement on Thursday , the IFP , a GNU member , said " There is an urgent need to iron out the differences through a joint meeting by the members of the GNU.We do not believe that the current situation is a crisis . It is necessary teething problems for a new GNU dispensation . " <h> Ramaphosa 's long , long list of choices <p> Ramaphosa must appoint a Deputy President , 30 Cabinet ministers and 36 deputy ministers . This is a huge Cabinet and executive , one of the largest in the world . <p> The Sunday Times reported the Cabinet could grow even larger as Ramaphosa tries to balance the interests of his party , its leagues and its alliance partners , the SACP and Cosatu , as well as the interests of the other parties which have joined the GNU . <p> The ANC Youth League says Ramaphosa must appoint young members to his Cabinet , while the SACP expects that both outgoing Higher Education and Training Minister Blade Nzimande and his deputy , Buti Manamela , will keep their jobs . <p> Each province of the ANC wants to see its leaders represented and the ANC Women 's League will want to see fair gender representation . This time around , Ramaphosa does n't have much largesse as the party lost the election and he must accommodate a growing number of parties joining the GNU . <p> The FF+ has also joined . Some reports say that it wants to chair two portfolio committees in Parliament while others say it wants to join the government . DM <h> Comments <p> What a pic . Paul ' my posse do n't take shit ' Mashatile , Cyril ' dollar coach ' Ramaphosa and Mdumiseni ' we should not have put Zumas interests above our own ' Ntuli . Imagine those being the people you have to do business with . <p> Roger Sheppardsays : <p> 21 June , 2024 at 17:18 <p> Paul Mashatile must be pursued ... and pursued by the Accountability-type NGO 's . The is much ' binding in the marsh ' with that undesirable , a close buddy of Malema 's . <p> Lesiba Langasays : <p> 21 June , 2024 at 14:02 <p> I will vouch for a lean and efficient cabinet . Unfortunately , the developmental nature of country and the balancing act that the President has to do makes it difficult . We can save a lot . Otherwise , the President has a headache . Best of luck to him . <p> Michael Colemansays : <p> 21 June , 2024 at 13:35 <p> In 2024 we still have to take a Communist Party and a Stalinist like Mantashe into account along with a National Democratic ( sic ) Revolution . Ideology that has cost millions of lives . We must be mad . <p> SARAH-JANE MEYERsays : <p> 21 June , 2024 at 13:10 <p> I do n't see any mention of labour/employment or similar . Am I missing something ? Is that now part of one of the other portfolios ? <p> Africa Thabasays : <p> 21 June , 2024 at 12:34 <p> DA going for very lucrative positions , worth commending . I would love to see some competent work for an administration , especially in those proposed positions they are looking to occupy . Job creation , a functioning source of energy and unwavering commitment to service delivery . What a time to adult ! <p> Stefan Laingsays : <p> 21 June , 2024 at 12:09 <p> No minister of labour on the lists ? <p> Brian Algarsays : <p> 21 June , 2024 at 11:09 <p> Here 's a great start if we want to see that these egotistical politicians are serious about " Our people " . Let them cut the number of Ministers and Deputy Ministers and ban blue light brigades for anybody other than the President , whose massive entourage can be reduced . The amount of money spent on protecting these self-important carrion feeders is obscene <p> Brian Algarsays : <p> 21 June , 2024 at 11:09 <p> Here 's a great start if we want to see that these egotistical politicians are serious about " Our people " . Let them cut the number of Ministers and Deputy Ministers and ban blue light brigades for anybody other than the President , whose massive entourage can be reduced . The amount of money spent on protecting these self-important carrion feeders is obscene <p> more deputy positions for any tinier parties or to appease people , perhaps . <p> Annie Conwaysays : <p> 21 June , 2024 at 09:22 <p> I thought Naledi Pandor had retired . She does not fit the GNU . <p> Alan Patersonsays : <p> 21 June , 2024 at 08:33 <p> What is missing for me is any significant comment on education , both basic and higher . Thirty years ago Bengu flirted with OBE , closed the training colleges , unionised the teachers , paid off existing competent educators etc . Today we still have shabby , understaffed rural schools ( pit toilets still in existence ) , children unable to read for meaning , teachers unqualified in maths and science and current ministers who are not fit for purpose . Youth unemployment is at very dangerous levels , there is no quick fix and this will haunt us for decades to come . <p> Dietmar Hornsays : <p> 21 June , 2024 at 08:33 <p> Well , South Africa has arrived at the reality of normal states with coalition or minority governments . First of all , this is good news . It limits the abuse of power and represents a wide spectrum of opinions . Haggling over offices and positions is deeply human and the most normal thing in a mature democracy . We should stop complaining and stop getting upset about every inconsistency . Nobody will see their expectations 100% fulfilled and that 's a good thing . <p> dontkill themessengersays : <p> 21 June , 2024 at 08:10 <p> " everybody look under your couch ! " <p> Trapper Beamsays : <p> 21 June , 2024 at 07:57 <p> Kenny OG Kunene with the policing portfolio &amp; with Gayton xenophobic jailbird McK at home affairs what possibly could go wrong . <p> I am not from Western Cape and may be in trouble for this but still believe that Allan Winde was supposed to be a Minister Industry and Trade . His experience and competence in his position as premier and can contribute more to the nation at large though its a down grade from Premier . <p> Michele Rivarolasays : <p> 21 June , 2024 at 07:21 <p> Mantashe must go he is a disgrace besides being fingered by Zondo as being corrupt . He is decrepit both age wise and in terms of what innovation he can bring to the table . He should retire in his super secure homestead ( thanks to his Bosasa mates ) and keep quiet from here onwards . <p> I find it annoying and bewildering that politicians have no concept that WE pay their salaries , and they are supposed to WORK FOR US . Rather we have to live in continual nervous hope like children , that they will do their jobs , to the highest standards , at all times for the benefit of South Africa . <p> . . says : <p> 21 June , 2024 at 06:24 <p> So in the name of unity we will take a step back and instead of reducing the cabinet it will likely grow , more waste and less effective . Which party controls what is key but who is even more so , geese away from mine Cele away from police etc <p> Kevin Ventersays : <p> 21 June , 2024 at 02:53 <p> Lets hope the person who is assigned the role of Energy immediately kills the proposed 44% electricity price hike and immediately puts an end to the Eskom cadre corruption . <p> " termid " : 387188 , " name " : " Maverick News " , " slug " : " maverick-news " , " termgroup " : 0 , " ... Africa " , " slug " : " south-africa " , " termgroup " : 0 , ... Maverick is an independent online news publication and weekly print newspaper in South Africa. rnrnIt is known for breaking some of the defining stories of South Africa in the past decade , including the Marikana Massacre , in which the South African Police Service killed 34 miners in August 2012. rnrnIt also investigated the Gupta Leaks , which won the 2019 Global Shining Light Award. rnrnThat investigation was credited with exposing the Indian-born Gupta family and former President Jacob Zuma for their role in the systemic political corruption referred to as state capture. rnrnIn 2018 , co-founder and editor-in-chief Branislav u2018Brankou2019 Brkic was awarded the countryu2019s prestigious Nat Nakasa Award , recognised for initiating the investigative collaboration after receiving the hard drive that included the email tranche. rnrnIn 2021 , co-founder and CEO Styli Charalambous also received the award. rnrnDaily Maverick covers the latest political and news developments in South Africa with breaking news updates , analysis , opinions and more . " , " parent " : 0 , " count " : 47369 , " filter " : " raw ... Maverick " , " slug " : " business-maverick " , " termgr ... SA Company Results : The Latest <p> Your one-stop shop for all the latest corporate results of South Africa 's major companies . <h> Monday , 24 June 2024 <p> Prosus and its South African parent company , Naspers , have finally turned the corner in e-commerce , reaching profitability in this division for the first time -- six months ahead of target . <p> The diverse Prosus e-commerce portfolio includes iFood ( Brazil ) and PayU ( India ) . The full-year trading profit of $38-million for the year ending 31 March , follows on from significant investments , improvements in efficiencies and cost-cutting . <p> The group is on solid ground as new incoming CEO Fabricio Bloisi is set to take up his position on 1 July , when interim CEO Erwin Tu will be shifting into a new role as group president and chief investment officer . <p> A year ago , Naspers and its Amsterdam-based investment arm said they would unwind their convoluted relationship with each other . The cross-holding , introduced under former CEO Bob van Dijk ( who resigned abruptly in September last year ) was set up to address Naspers ' dominance on the JSE , which was artificially inflated due to its large Tencent stake . By 2020 , Tencent 's market cap had reached nearly $1-trillion . <p> Naspers bought into Tencent in 2001 , after Koos Bekker invested $34-million for a 46.5% stake in Tencent , which was a rising Chinese tech giant at that time . <p> Naspers split off its holding of Tencent and other tech companies into Prosus in 2019 , with a listing on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange . <p> In 2021 , the convoluted " cross-holding " structure was created , essentially moving a portion of Naspers ' ownership from the JSE to Amsterdam . <p> With last year 's approval by the South African Reserve Bank , Naspers would buy back shares to eliminate this cross-holding , simplify the structure and ensure that its ownership reflects its economic interest of 43% in Prosus . The remaining 57% would continue to be held by the Prosus free float , also aligned with its existing economic stake . <p> Group-wide , consolidated revenue moved from $6-billion to $6.4-billion , driven by strong performances at OLX and iFood . <p> For the first time , e-commerce recorded a trading profit of $24-million , from a trading loss of $435-million in FY23 , driven by food delivery and classifieds . <p> Basil Sgourdos , group chief financial officer for Prosus and Naspers , said core headline earnings have almost doubled , and the e-commerce results and performance at Tencent have driven a threefold increase in free cash flow . <p> The classifieds division 's OLX Group grew consolidated revenue by 27% , driven by a strong performance in OLX Europe , especially in the motors category , and a recovery in OLX Ukraine . Trading profit more than tripled to $172-million , with trading profit margin increasing 13 percentage points , to 24% . <p> Iyzico , PayU 's Turkish PSP business , has grown revenue by 119% in nominal terms and declared a trading profit of $17-million . Another strong performer was Remitly , an online remittance service , which increased revenue by 44% and Ebitda margin by 5% . <p> iFood 's gross merchandise value was up 20% , orders by 18% and revenue by 22% . Its core restaurant business almost tripled its trading profit to $260-million <p> Consolidated trading losses for the group have reduced by $486-million from $640-m in FY23 . <p> South African businesses <p> In South Africa , business was constrained by " challenging " economic conditions , although Phuthi Mahanyele-Dabengwa , the South Africa CEO of Naspers , said local business arms were continuing to innovate and explore new opportunities , singling out Takealot , which has now surpassed 10,000 active sellers on its marketplace . <p> " We believe that the platform economy is a catalyst for economic growth , innovation and job creation in South Africa , " she said . <p> However , Takealot has taken a beating over the past year , incurring a loss of $14-million ( R253-million ) due to competition from Shein and Temu , as well as high interest rates and inflation . <p> Mr D and Superbalist , which fall under the Takealot Group , saw gross merchandise value increases of 16% and 7% respectively . <p> Mr D has also reached profitability for the first time , with a trading profit of $3-million . <p> The online marketplace for vehicles and boats , AutoTrader , has reported an 11% rise in user traffic , with platform growth of 97% since 2019 . <p> Media24 , whose losses are projected to reach R200-million over the next three years , plans to close the print editions of five newspapers and migrate three others to digital only . <p> Managing director Ishmet Davidson has blamed structural declines in circulation and advertising , as well as rising distribution costs , saying they had " simply run out of options " . DM <h> Tuesday , 11 June 2024 <p> Premier Foods rises to the occasion by delivering maiden dividend <p> Premier Foods , the manufacturer of Snowflake flour , Mr Sweets and Lil-Lets tampons , has closed FY 2024 on a strong note , with better-than-expected results . <p> Established in 1824 , the group was the first to list on the JSE last year after it was spun out of holding company Brait . It has now declared a maiden dividend of 220 cents per share , in line with its stated policy at listing . <p> It equates to a final gross dividend of R283.6-million ( ordinary shares ) and R2.6-million ( for " A " ordinary shares ) . <p> In March this year , Brait placed a further 15 million ordinary shares into the market . <p> Premier holds 27% of the bread market share in South Africa , 37% of the wheat market and 18% of the maize market . <p> It also manufactures 15% of our sweets and 22% of our femcare products . In the UK , where it has a sales office , it has 76% of the non-applicator tampon market share . <p> For the year ended 31 March 2024 , the group increased revenue by 3.6% to R18.6-billion , which it said was as expected , attributing its Millbake and Groceries and International categories to the growth , which rose by 3.7% and 3.3% respectively . <p> It said the slowing revenue growth was caused by significant soft commodity inflation experienced in the previous year , which has subsequently stabilised . <p> Earnings before finance income and finance costs , tax , depreciation and amortisation ( Ebitda ) increased by 18.6% to R2.1-billion . Operating profit was up by 26.4% to R1.6-billion . <p> Millbake 's Ebitda grew by 20.6% , while the Groceries and International Ebitda grew by 3.7% . <p> In a company statement , Premier said it maintained an " unrelenting focus " on optimising operational efficiencies , margin management and upskilling its people , which has paid off . <p> Premier has also acquired a 30% shareholding in Goldkeys -- a rice distributor in KwaZulu-Natal -- which took effect on 3 June 2024 . <p> Goldkeys is one of the largest rice importers into South Africa , supplying branded Thai and Indian-sourced rice under its own brands as well as house brands to retailers and independent wholesalers . <p> Premier said it remained committed to its pre-listing strategy , prioritising efficiency and adaptable execution , but was mindful of the ongoing volatility in soft commodity prices and inflationary pressures . Despite this , they expect revenue growth to continue in the coming year . DM <h> Tuesday , 21 May 2024 <p> Transaction Capital reins in losses after shifting WeBuyCars <p> Unbundling WeBuyCars has helped the holding company pay off a substantial amount of debt . <p> Two months after announcing a separate listing for its profitable division WeBuyCars , Transaction Capital can finally announce it is able to pay down a substantial amount of its debt . <p> A key highlight of the holding company 's half-year results , for the period ended 31 March 2024 , was the successful unbundling of WeBuyCars on the JSE , which helped Transaction Capital return R5.2-billion in WeBuyCars shares to shareholders . <p> It also raised R1-billion through the listing , placing it in a net cash position at holding company level . <p> By migrating from an operational group to an investment holding company , Transaction Capital now comprises the holdco with two primary assets , Nutun ( previously Transaction Capital Risk Services , the largest collections agency in the southern hemisphere ) and Mobalyz ( SA Taxi and Gomo ) . It has net cash of about R120-million . <p> For its troubled SA Taxi lending division , time is running out . <p> A year ago , Transaction Capital 's share price tanked by more than 40% after news that it planned an aggressive restructuring of SA Taxi , which needs to be concluded by the end of next month . <p> Support for the new business plan from SA Taxi 's existing debt funders is critical for Mobalyz 's survival , says Transaction Capital . <p> SA Taxi 's gross loans and advances are down 5% to R16.2-billion ( H1 2023 : R17.1-billion ) , with 76% fewer loans originated . Its collection rate has slumped by 72% , which it attributes to the tough economic conditions for customers , which are not expected to improve soon . <p> However , its credit tightening strategy is achieving better outcomes , with an improvement expected in the loan portfolio over the medium to long term . <p> Group-wide , Transaction Capital has reported a basic loss per share decrease of 20.7% to 178.3c , a decrease in headline loss per share of 26.6% and a 100% decrease in Core earnings per share from continuing operations , to a loss per share of 186.9c . <p> Mobalyz has made a core loss from continuing operations of R1.8-billion , largely by the reduction of the absconsion , violation and credit shortfall cover in SA Taxi 's insurance business , which it said was necessary to create a sustainable insurance business . This has caused a once-off net loss of R966-million . <p> The group said significant progress has been made in developing Mobalyz 's service offering as well as the restructuring and rightsizing of SA Taxi 's operations . It hopes the proposed business plan for SA Taxi , if accepted , will allow originations to continue uninterrupted . <p> Transaction Capital is rationalising its board and head office structures to improve operating efficiencies -- and sold Nutun Australia . The sale of Nutun Transact is currently underway . DM <h> Tuesday , 21 May 2024 <p> Astral Foods seems to have broken the fever , posts 461% jump in profits <p> The chicken producer has bounced back after last year 's dismal results , owed to bird flu , rolling blackouts and other problems . <p> The food sector is a hard nut to crack and for those in the poultry sector , it 's been a tough few years . Vulnerable to business interruption due to disease outbreaks , energy crises and supply chain issues , poultry producers have operated in an environment plagued by a litany of problems , including power cuts and failing municipalities , import costs , product dumping and higher feed prices . Add avian influenza into the mix , widespread culling and no compensation , and it 's clear the industry 's on its knees . <p> After posting a R512-million loss in September 2023 , due largely to the rolling blackouts crisis and the outbreaks of the highly pathogenic avian influenza ( HPAI ) , Astral Foods seems to have broken the bird flu fever . <p> In its half-year results , released on Monday , Astral Foods reported a 4% revenue increase , a 441% hike in headline earnings per share and a 461% jump in operating profit from R98-million to R550-million . Six months ago , the group , which owns Country Fair , Goldi , Meadow Feeds and the Tiger Chicks hatchery , bemoaned its first loss in its 23-year history , having run up an operating loss of R620.90-million . The previous year , it reported an operating profit of R1.44-billion . <p> The group 's operating profit margin of 5.3% was a marked improvement after the poor interim financial results posted a year ago , which reflected a R740-million loss due to rolling blackouts . Revenue for Astral 's Poultry Division was up by 6.7% to R8.7-billion ( from R8.2-billion in March 2023 ) , owing to increased sales and selling prices . <p> Broiler sales volumes were up by 4.2% , despite broiler bird numbers being held back from an average of 5.8 million birds per week in September 2023 to 5.4 million birds per week for the six months ended 31 March 2024 . The group was forced to hold back supplies to balance demand due to weak consumer spending . <p> Broiler performance has improved significantly , after the normalisation of bird age and live weight as the backlog in the slaughter programme was cleared . The feed bill and factory overtime costs have also come down substantially . <p> Astral 's results point to an improvement in the sector but the worst is not necessarily over . Egg and broiler producers have seen significant losses due to the new strain of bird flu ( H7N6 ) , which spread in both Gauteng and Mpumalanga . There are still about 20 open bird flu outbreaks in Gauteng . The poultry industry has warned that bird flu still poses a significant threat in the country . South Africa has yet to introduce a vaccination programme because it lacks capacity . There is a critical shortage of veterinarians and veterinary resources in South Africa . <p> At last week 's FairPlay media roundtable on lessons learned about the HPAI outbreak , Izaak Breytenbach , the general manager of the SA Poultry Association 's broiler board , explained that the industry has suffered about R9.5-billion in losses from culling infected birds . <p> The government 's " stamp-out " bird flu policy was unmanageable because farmers were not compensated for doing so . The policy requires that if an infected bird is detected , the entire flock is destroyed , the poultry houses are cleaned and sterilised , all at the operator 's cost . Failure to compensate could lead to producers choosing not to cull birds , which poses a significant risk to other flocks around the country . DM <h> Thursday , 9 May 2024 <p> South African Breweries ( SAB ) has released its Q1 results , reflecting record growth in its premium sector . <p> This year has got off to a good start for SAB , with double-digit revenue growth in South Africa , largely owing to its super-premium sector and Beyond Beer categories . <p> Corona and Stella have done particularly well for the brewer , which is part of AB InBev . <p> The Belgium-based brewing giant has reported revenue growth in about 75% of its markets , driven by a revenue-per-hectolitre increase of 3.3% , which it attributes to " revenue management initiatives and ongoing premiumisation " . <p> Total volumes were down by 0.6% , with own beer volumes down by 1.3% and non-beer volumes up by 3.5% . <p> Growth in the Middle and South Americas , Africa and Europe was offset by performance in Asia Pacific and North America . <p> Underlying profit ( which is profit attributable to equity holders of AB InBev excluding non-underlying items and the impact of hyperinflation ) was $1.509-billion in Q1 2024 , compared with $1.31-billion in Q1 2023 . <p> Revenue from the global no-alcohol beer portfolio grew by the high teens , led by Corona Cero and Budweiser Zero . <p> On the super-premium side , global megabrands such as Leffe in Europe and Spaten in Brazil helped drive revenue by 5.2% , while Corona grew by 15.5% . <p> But in the US , where a consumer boycott of Bud Light -- AB InBev 's top-selling beer brand -- began a year ago in response to a social media campaign with transgender TikTok influencer Dylan Mulvaney , revenue was down by 9.1% . <p> Sales to retailers were down by 13.7% , mostly due to the volume declines of Bud Light . <p> SAB CEO Richard Rivett-Carnac explained that while the super-premium category has contributed most substantially to their revenue growth , their traditional brands -- Castle and Black Label -- are performing well . <p> " Although most of the growth in terms of percentages came from our premium portfolio , Corona , which is doing very , very well , we saw good growth in the traditional brands and Beyond Beer as well . So it 's not that the traditional brands are doing badly ; the super-premiums are just doing particularly well . " <p> Beyond Beer , volumes of Brutal Fruit and Flying Fish are not disclosed but Rivett-Carnac said they have performed particularly well . <p> " We launched Brutal Fruits more than 20 years ago as an innovation in the market . What we 're seeing is ' sweet-seeker ' consumers -- roughly 30% of South African consumers have a sweet palate and prefer a sweeter profile in their alcoholic drinks . They are a big part of the market that we were n't maybe accessing through our traditional beer portfolio . <p> " We also launched Black Crown , our gin and tonic ready-to-drink , which is also doing well . " <p> The legal age youth market is interesting , he said , as there is a worldwide trend towards non-alcoholic drinks and those who are of drinking age are behaving differently . <p> " But there 's no doubt that people who come into legal drinking age and start consuming alcohol are more health conscious and are more aware that consuming less alcohol is a good thing . " DM <h> Tuesday , 23 April 2024 <p> Capitec 's success story -- 22m clients and counting ... <p> Once upon time , it was the " newcomer " in the banking industry , but Capitec has grown to become a leading case study in banking success , boasting an active client base of 22-million , earnings of R10.6-billion , and 11.2-million app users for the year to end February 2024 . <p> Transaction volumes increased 21% to 9.9 billion , driving a 29% increase in transaction and commission income to R14.8-billion . Gerrie Fourie , chief executive officer of Capitec , says this growth aligns with the bank 's strategy of shifting the market towards digital banking . <p> Strategic initiatives such as " value-added services " , payments and Capitec Connect , contributed R2.9-billion in net income , while the insurance business contributed R3-billion , and the relatively recently launched business banking division brought home R478-million in profit after tax . <p> Capitec App users increased by 180,000 a month and registered more than 11 million logins a day -- that 's more than 500,000 people using the app every hour , illustrating how the brand has become a part of people 's daily lives . Fourie says the bank 's strategy has remained razor-focused on the future . <p> " Over the last three years , we 've invested R6.3-billion in re-platforming our systems and migrating our data to AWS Cloud services , developing innovative payment solutions and building three new businesses , " he says . <p> Card payments increased by 30% to 2.5 billion , which means the Capitec card was used 6.6 million times daily across South Africa and in top international destinations . The bank further introduced Capitec Pay , the first API-based payment solution in South Africa , which enables secure card-free online shopping by simply entering a cellphone number and authenticating it using the Capitec app . Capitec Pay processed 134 million transactions with a value of R26.7-billion . <p> Clients with inflows of more than R15,000 a month into their Capitec account have increased by 17% . Fourie says more than 2.9 million clients have net salaries of more than R15,000 paid into their Capitec accounts , with 600,000 clients depositing salaries of more than R50,000 a month . <p> The bank implemented a new online banking platform that allows clients to onboard remotely in minutes with no paperwork , for a low monthly fee of R50 and the same low transaction fees as personal banking for all businesses , regardless of size . <p> It seems that having conquered the South African market , Capitec is looking to expand not only in offerings , but also to other shores . <p> In March this year , the bank got the green light from the South African Reserve Bank to increase its ownership of Cyprus-based AvaFin , an international consumer online lending group , from 40% to 97% at a price tag of around R530-million . Fourie says Avafin presents a strategic opportunity to diversify the bank 's income sources and build on its experience in foreign markets . DM <p> Since Douglas took over from interim CEO Frank Thompson in November 2015 , the group has almost doubled its enrolments , from 47,209 to 93,728 , at an annualised growth rate of 8% . <p> The latest financial year , ended 31 December 2023 , saw AdvTech basking in strong demand for quality education , helping it grow revenue by 13% to R7.86-billion ( up from R6.96-billion in 2022 ) , and headline earnings per share by 19% . <p> Over the same period , operating profit increased by 18% to R1.57-billion ( 2022 : R1.33-billion ) and the operating margin improved to 20.1% ( up from 19.1% ) . <p> AdvTech 's tertiary division -- which includes Varsity College , Rosebank College , Vega and Capsicum Culinary Studio -- has done exceptionally well for the group , with revenue up by 10% and operating profit increasing by 16% to R787-million . <p> Schools in South Africa ( Trinity House , Crawford , Evolve online school and Junior Colleges ) continue to do well , seeing 13% growth in revenue to R2.8-billion , while the rest of Africa ( Kenya and Botswana ) had boosted revenue by 14% to R381-million and hiked operating profit by 43% to R114-million . <p> It saw a marked improvement in collections during the year and the more favourable ageing of the debtors ' book , with the loss allowance reduced from R438-million to R405-million . <p> The group is cash-flush too : it says cash generated by operating activities was up 10% to R1.94-billion , which helped fund R669-million in capital expenditure and pay R189-million in finance costs , R415-million in dividends and R375-million in tax ; repay R78-million in lease liabilities and settle debt of R190-million . <p> In a statement , board chairman Chris Boulle said Douglas successfully led the group in its expansion strategy during his tenure . <p> " He has refocused the educational division brand portfolios into well-positioned brands with distinct value offerings . This , together with a focus on effectiveness and efficiencies , resulted in a solid competitive advantage , and an agile and adaptive business model . " <p> Boulle praised Douglas ' leadership during the pandemic for being responsive to a dynamic environment , where more than 70,000 students were seamlessly transitioned to an online environment . <p> " He leaves AdvTech in a strong position to continue its growth trajectory . " <p> Douglas has an MBA and a degree in economics and has previously worked at Unilever , Nampak , Deloitte and House of Fraser ( in the UK ) . He told Daily Maverick that while Covid was a stressful period , they look back at it now with a " great deal of fondness " because it helped the group stress-test the business . <p> " We had made several changes to structures and systems processes within the organisation school division in particular . We were able to leverage the technical expertise , knowledge and experience that we had in the group in terms of online education in a matter of three weeks . We never dropped a single academic day during that period . " <p> Geoff Whyte , another economist , replaces Douglas as group CEO . <p> Whyte is described as a commercially focused business leader with more than 30 years of experience across various industries , including Nando 's , Unilever , PepsiCo , Cadbury Schweppes and SABMiller . <p> Douglas said AdvTech had great growth in revenues , margins and operating profits , which enabled them to fund expansion programmes , acquisitions and developments . <p> Due to strong cash generation , the board has seen the opportunity to significantly enhance the dividend this year . <p> " It 's been a wonderful 10 years and I look back with great fondness . " DM <h> Monday , 18 March 2024 <p> Sun International rides the gaming and tourism wave <p> Sun International has reported a strong set of results , with earnings from gaming up 78% and exceptional growth in some of its resorts and hotels , buoyed by leisure , conferencing and sports tourism . <p> SunBets is up by almost 80% year on year , while resorts and hotels have been reinvigorated by a surge in leisure , sports and business . <p> International leisure travellers have also driven up demand for the group 's Cape Town hotels . Tourism has made a notable recovery , as reflected in Stats SA 's latest tourism and migration data , showing that 20.1% ( 195,423 ) of all South Africa 's visitors in December were from abroad . <p> Sun International has cashed in handsomely on this segment , with revenue from rooms , food and beverages growing by 24.1% year on year . <p> The group 's income is up 7% to R12.1-billion , driven by record income from SunBet , which has generated 116.2% more income for the year , exceeding its five-year targets , and what it describes as " impressive " performance from its resorts and hotels . <p> Sun 's resorts and hotels were up 17.4% to R3-billion on 2022 , driven by its top three performers : Sun City ( up 14.8% ) , The Maslow ( up 24% ) and stellar performer The Table Bay Hotel ( up 54.6% ) . <p> Gaming income , which brings in 76.8% of total group income , was 3.3% stronger year on year -- despite the economic climate , increased competition and rolling blackouts . <p> Sun International chief executive Anthony Leeming said Sun 's gaming division has seen phenomenal growth in income and profitability . <p> " Sun City has seen record Ebitda operating performance -- the highest it has ever made -- and SunBet has had record Ebitda and profitability , rising from R733-million to R221-million in a year . " <p> SunBet also saw substantial growth in its key performance indicators , including almost 270% more unique active players , 268% more first-time depositors and 162.5% more deposits . <p> The Table Bay has delivered a phenomenal performance , largely due to foreign tourism , while at Sun City " everything 's up " . <p> " If you look at the restaurants across the group -- our food and beverage income from concessionaires is doing incredibly well , with double-digit growth in the urban casinos as well . " <p> However , urban casinos were still under strain , he said , which reflects the general economy , uncertainty around the upcoming elections , crime , pressure on disposable income , the energy crisis and high interest rates . <p> Echoing the sentiments of other business leaders , Leeming said they need the general economy to grow so that their urban casinos can grow . <p> " We have to push really hard . We still expect strong growth , but everything is under pressure . " DM <h> Thursday , 14 March 2024 <p> Distressed consumers fatten up Standard Bank 's bottom line <p> Standard Bank 's headline earnings leapt 27% to R42.9-billion for the 12 months to the end of December 2023 with a return on equity of 18.8% . <p> However , markets did not react favourably , with the share price falling about R13 intraday to close at R186.92 on Thursday . <p> Net asset value grew by 8% and the bank declared a final dividend of 733 cents per share , which , when combined with the interim dividend , equates to a dividend payout ratio of 55% . <p> On a more sombre note , the effect of the increasing interest rate environment over the past year has never been more evident . <p> Credit impairment charges increased 22% to R16.3-billion . <p> The increase in charges was driven by new loan origination , client strain driving partial payments , negative sovereign risk migration and new defaults . <p> In South Africa , credit impairment charges increased across all portfolios , compounded by the non-recurrence of credit recoveries on the payment holiday portfolio in the 2022 financial year ( R500-million ) . <p> The group 's credit loss ratio increased from 83 basis points in the 2022 financial year to 98 basis points in the past year , at the top of the group 's through-the-cycle credit loss ratio target range of 70 to 100 basis points . <p> The bank notes that clients are likely to remain constrained until interest rates decline . <p> Credit impairment charges are expected to peak in the first six months of 2024 , driven primarily by ongoing strain in personal and private banking . <p> Looking ahead , the credit loss ratio is expected to remain within but near the top of the group 's through-the-cycle credit loss ratio range of 70 to 100 basis points for the 2024 financial year . <h> Monday , 11 March 2024 <p> Absa crosses the R100bn revenue threshold , sinks money into IT and new staff <p> Absa 's financial results for 2023 showcase a mixed bag of gains and pains , with a tidy sum of R126-million from insurance for riot-damaged property . <p> Absa 's financial statements for the year to the end of December 2023 received an injection of R126-million from insurance proceeds for damage sustained to property and equipment as a result of the KZN riots of 2021 . <p> The banking group crossed the R100-billion revenue threshold for the first time as revenue grew 8% to R104.5-billion , with stronger growth coming from African regions . <p> " We are seeing the benefits of the strategic choices we made in 2018 , as is evident from our diversified business , growing customer franchise and engaged workforce , " says Arrie Rautenbach , Absa group chief executive officer . <p> The bank 's customer base expanded 4% to 12.2 million in 2023 from 11.7 million a year earlier , but in the face of rising inflation and interest rates , credit impairment charges climbed 13% to R15.5-billion . South Africa 's prime rate of 11.75% at 31 December 2023 was 125 basis points higher than at 31 December 2022 and 475bps above the bottom of the rate cycle from mid-2020 to late 2021 . <p> The credit loss ratio increased from 96bps to 118bps , exceeding Absa 's through-the-cycle target range of 75 to 100bps . Non-performing loans increased to 6.05% of total gross loans and advances as a result of elevated inflows into later-stage delinquencies in the South African retail portfolios . <p> Non-performing loans grew by a whopping 20% to R80-billion from R67-billion the year before . <p> In addition to its investment in a BBBEE transaction which placed 7% of group shareholding ( equivalent to R11.2-billion at the time ) in the hands of employees and communities , Absa has invested significantly in the recruitment of additional frontline staff . Recruitment , together with spend on digital , contributed to a 10% increase in operating expenses . Absa expanded its employee base and , at the same time , invested more in new digital capabilities to enhance customer experience both in branches and online . The number of digitally active customers increased from 3.4 million to 3.8 million . <p> Chris Snyman , Absa group interim financial director , says the bank has strengthened its balance sheet , with a 7% compound growth in revenues since 2018 , while the cost-to-income ratio has improved to 52% from 58% in 2018 . DM <h> Tuesday , 5 March 2024 <p> Sibanye swings into loss on PGM price meltdown , $2.6bn in impairments <p> The sharp downturn in platinum group metals ( PGMs ) prices has hit producers hard , with Sibanye-Stillwater taking a $2.6-billion knock in asset impairments . It all adds up to a loss of $2-billion for the 2023 financial year versus a $1.2-billion profit for 2022 . <p> Diversified metals producer Sibanye released jarring results on Tuesday which showed it had fallen deep into the red in 2022 as the PGM price meltdown chowed its earnings and mangled the value of assets . <p> It 's a dramatic shift from a couple of years ago when PGM producers were reaping record profits from record prices . <p> The company 's rivals , including Northam Platinum and Impala Platinum , have also posted sharply lower earnings , but have managed to stay in the black . <p> Sibanye bit the impairment bullet and shut off the dividend taps as it hunkered down for a turnaround in the PGM market , which has been hit by a perfect storm of global economic anxiety , premature obituaries of the internal combustion engine and an unexpected decline in rhodium demand from Chinese makers of fibreglass . <p> " The Group 's financial results for the year ended 31 December 2023 were similarly impacted by the sudden and sharp decline in PGM and nickel prices , " the company said . <p> " The 33% year-on-year decline in the average PGM basket prices , in particular , resulted in a dramatic fall in the profitability of the US and SA PGM operations , which in recent years have contributed the bulk of Group earnings and cash flow . <p> " The significant decline in metal prices and uncertain outlook , along with specific operational performance factors , also resulted in the Group having to recognise impairments of R47.5-billion ( $2.6-billion ) against various assets , which was a primary driver of the Group reporting a loss for 2023 of R37.4-billion ( $2-billion ) compared with a R19-billion ( $1.2-billion ) profit for 2022 . " <p> The impairments were applied to the US PGM underground operation , SA Gold 's Kloof operation , the Burnstone gold project in South Africa and the Sandouville nickel refinery in France . These are non-cash items and an accounting write-down of the value of the assets . <p> But only #4 shaft at the SA Gold 's Kloof operation is closing down as it is nearing the end of its life . <p> The US PGM operation , known as Stillwater , has already returned plenty of cash to shareholders and will do so again if and when the market rebounds from its current nosedive . <p> " Stillwater has paid for itself and shareholders have benefitted from dividends generated from the operation , " Sibanye CEO Neal Froneman told Daily Maverick in an interview . <p> Indeed , a couple of years ago , Stillwater , located in the US state of Montana , accounted for half of the group 's Ebitda ( earnings before interest , taxes , depreciation and amortisation ) . <p> Sibanye maintains that the fundamentals of the PGM market point to an eventual rebound . <p> " We continue to see emerging signals that ... support our long-held , robust view on PGM demand , " the company . <p> These include forecast production growth for the rest of this decade in light-duty vehicles -- or cars , simply put -- powered by internal combustion engines that require platinum , palladium and rhodium for emissions-capping catalytic converters . <p> Alongside this is a moderation in growth rates for battery electric vehicles which require other metals . Primary supply is also falling in the face of low prices . <p> Sibanye has warned before of looming layoffs in South Africa 's PGM sector , but the company did not announce any new planned retrenchments , known as " Section 189 " notices . <p> However , Froneman told Daily Maverick that he would n't " rule any out " in the future . DM <h> Tuesday , 5 March 2024 <p> Shoprite outruns competitors with 14.6% hike in interim sales <p> South Africa 's biggest and most successful retailer is n't focusing on what is going wrong . Instead , it 's honing in on what it is doing right . <p> While its biggest competitor appears to have lost the plot , Shoprite just keeps on winning . South Africa 's biggest and most successful retailer has sold 13.9% more merchandise and gained R4-billion in market share in the past six months -- and it expects an even brighter future . <p> Over the past six months , the group made R121-billion in sales . <p> On Tuesday , the retailer released its unaudited results for the period ended 31 December 2023 . <p> After almost five years of uninterrupted market share gains , Shoprite is dishing up some stiff competition for Woolworths and Spar and is clearly eating Pick n Pay 's lunch . <p> Last month , Pick n Pay -- which posted its historically worst results in October 2023 -- announced it would be listing its prized asset , Boxer , in order to pay off debt . <p> Back to Shoprite , where the focus is not so much on where competitors have gone wrong , but on what it has done right . <p> Shoprite CEO Pieter Engelbrecht kicked off his presentation with an apparent dig at Pick n Pay -- which has repeatedly bemoaned the difficulty of doing business in South Africa -- saying he could " spend an hour on all the excuses of why things are not great or why the performance could be better or what the reasons are that makes doing business in South Africa extremely challenging , but we 're not going to do that . It 's not what we do . " <p> Rather , Engelbrecht said , they would focus on how well they did , how the company developed , its increased employment , leadership , and the fun it had with its advertising . <p> " I 'm very happy to say that we have managed to win 34 awards for innovation in retail in the last six months . " <p> In South Africa , the group 's supermarket sales hit R97.5-billion over the period -- a 14.6% increase on the previous six months . <p> Checkers and Checkers Hyper saw a 13.7% increase in sales , while Shoprite and Usave increased sales by 13.2% and 12.3% , respectively , which Engelbrecht attributed to the focus on putting the customer 's challenges and needs front and centre in the business , a commitment to the lowest prices , in-stock availability , efficient operations , and ongoing product and store development . <p> Shoprite also increased its foothold in the country , opening 369 new stores over the past year . <p> Checkers Sixty60 , which is on a massive winning streak , hiked its sales by 63.1% over the past six months . <p> Engelbrecht said while the operating context in South Africa was challenging and costly , especially due to the cost of blackouts , they were pleased to report an increase in profits and dividends for the period . <p> " The group continues to invest in the business on a number of fronts : tech and digital , supply chain , stores and , of course , people . <p> " Over the six months , we added a net of 197 new stores to total 3,543 stores and , as a group , our commitment to employment growth resulted in the creation of 2,617 new jobs . " <p> The board has declared an interim dividend of 267c per ordinary share , which shareholders can expect on 2 April 2024 . DM <p> The move will effectively reduce Aspen 's investment in heparin inventory , and increase operating cash flows in the current financial year and the next . <p> In the six months to the end of December 2023 , Aspen 's investment in heparin inventory was reduced by R1-billion , with a further R2-billion reduction anticipated by the end of June this year . <p> The active ingredient for Heparin , a blood-thinning drug , is sourced from pig intestines . An outbreak of swine flu and African swine fever in recent years raised concerns globally , prompting a major recall of the injectable anticoagulant by the US Food and Drug Administration and their counterparts in Europe , Australia and New Zealand . <p> Aspen has countered this weakness in its supply chain with the transition to a toll manufacturing agreement , which means the company 's customers will own and source the active ingredient while Aspen will handle the manufacturing contract . <p> " It effectively takes away the drag on our bottom line and makes it a working capital-light model , " says Sean Capazorio , group finance officer . <p> The other big move Aspen made in the first half of the year was the conclusion of a Sandoz agreement , which included acquiring the Sandoz business in China for a net upfront consideration of ? 27.9-million followed by potential net milestone payments of ? 9.2-million . <p> Management expects to get competition authority approval for the deal in May . <p> Capazorio says the deal will materially mitigate the negative impact of volume-based procurement on Aspen 's existing business in China from next year . <p> Stephen Saad , Aspen 's group chief executive , says the company has completed the necessary steps to reach the commercialisation stage for the manufacture of mRNA platform products which will augment revenue in the second half of the year . <p> The second half of the year will be further boosted by the distribution and promotion agreement with Lilly for sub-Saharan Africa , and the product purchase agreement with Viatris for Latin America . <p> The agreement with Lilly is effective from January 2024 . <p> Subsequent years will benefit from the launch of key pipeline products including Lilly 's Tirzepatide , marketed globally as Mounjaro . <p> Viagra , Lipitor , Norvasc , Lyrica and Celebrex are key brands included in the product portfolio acquired for Latin America . <p> Aspen 's share price has climbed 16.55% over the last year to close at R205.21 on Monday afternoon . DM <h> Thursday , 29 February 2024 <p> FNB takes a hit of almost R1bn as clients benefit from fee reductions <p> First National Bank ( FNB ) will absorb a hit of almost R1-billion in the current financial year on the back of fee reductions , says FirstRand Group chief executive Alan Pullinger . <p> " Bank fee increases were below inflation across the board in July 2023 and in addition to that , we reduced fees on instant payments , " Pullinger says . <p> The relatively muted growth in FNB 's fee and commission income for the six months to the end of December was due to sub-inflation fee increases across both retail and commercial accounts . <p> In addition , with the introduction of PayShap , FNB reviewed its pricing structures for low-value , real-time payments and decided to reduce all related fees and absorb the entire impact of the repricing in one financial year ( to 30 June 2024 ) . <p> " The resultant 30% increase in real-time payment volumes that FNB has already experienced since the repricing action demonstrates this is the correct outcome for customers . <p> " In the first six months of the current year alone , this resulted in a cumulative R477-million reduction in customer fees , " he says . <p> Advances growth from FNB 's commercial segment were up 10% , compared with a 14% increase at RMB and a 9% increase at FNB Broader Africa . <p> The bank says these numbers reflect a consistent origination strategy to focus on sectors showing above-cycle growth , and which are expected to perform well even in an inflationary and high interest rate environment . <p> Normalised earnings increased 6% to R19.1-billion , driven by strong topline growth , particularly net interest income , which was supported by growth in both advances and deposits . <p> Advances now total R1.6-trillion . <p> Pullinger says the credit loss ratio of 0.83% is particularly pleasing since it is well below the midpoint of the group 's through-the-cycle range of 80bps to 110bps . <p> " This is a commendable result given the prevailing inflation and interest rate cycle and has enabled continued advances growth as the group services the needs of customers through judicious and tactical origination , " he noted . <p> Across the portfolio , deposits and transactional balances increased strongly , both of which have provided an underpin to the return profile . The retail and commercial segments of FNB in particular registered excellent growth in deposits off an already high base . <p> This performance reflects the benefit of the group 's approach to origination , particularly post the pandemic when new business was weighted towards the low- and medium-risk categories , and was achieved despite the current pressures from high inflation and interest rates . <p> Total group operating expenses were 9% higher and in line with expectations . <p> FNB grew costs below inflation , but this was offset by a significant increase in costs from RMB ( +13% ) due to elevated investment in platform and geographic expansion . <p> The UK operations ' ongoing investment in systems and people contributed to cost growth of 11% . Overall , the cost-to-income ratio decreased to 49.9% , given the strong topline growth in the period . <p> Commenting on second-half prospects , Pullinger said the group expects the macroeconomic environment in the jurisdictions where it operates to remain largely unchanged , characterised by high interest rates and persistent elevated inflation . <p> " Given this backdrop , we anticipate softer overall advances growth and , given the current high base , deposit growth will slow as households draw down on savings , although commercial deposit gathering is expected to remain resilient , " he said . <p> Pullinger concluded by indicating that the group expects to generate earnings in the second half similar to the first . <p> Shareholders will receive an interim dividend of 200 cents per share , representing a payout of 59% . DM <h> Wednesday , 28 February 2024 <p> Woolworths shows food basket brims with potential <p> Woolies Food delivered solid growth , with turnover and concession sales growing by 8.4% and 7.2% on a comparable store basis , despite the impact of rolling blackouts , bird flu and the taxi strike . <p> In South Africa , Woolworths ' operations were also hamstrung by load shedding , congestion at the ports and the impact of bird flu . It 's not likely to get easier over the rest of the financial year , with the upcoming elections and growing geopolitical uncertainty . <p> The retailer released its interim results on Wednesday , for the 26 weeks ended 24 December 2023 , but said the first half of the 2024 financial year was not directly comparable to that of the prior period because of the inclusion of the David Jones contribution in the 2023 period . <p> Nobody is immune from the challenging macroeconomic environment , which loomed large in the results , owing to the cost of living crisis and interest rate increases . The retailer said this affected footfall and resulted in a bigger-than-expected pullback in discretionary spending . <p> In the last six months of the period -- the height of the festive season spending -- sales grew by 8.6% . Online sales through the Dash app were up by 46.6% , although that only comprised 5.1% of South African sales . <p> Its gross profit margin increased to 24.6% , which it attributed to targeted and effective promotions and value chain efficiencies . <p> Adjusted operating profit grew by 13% to R1.6-billion . Adjusted for the impact of the blackouts , operating profit grew by 13.2% . <p> Fashion , Beauty and Home ( FBH ) was making steady progress . <p> Woolworths CEO Roy Bagattini said the standout performer was its food business , but FBH -- in particular Beauty -- was up 16% . <p> " We 've doubled our Beauty business in the last three years and our plan is to double it again in the next two to three years . We 're investing heavily in Beauty ... It 's a big play for us . <p> " If you want to establish yourself as a beauty destination , you really have to have the scope of offering different categories and you need to have the right products and experiences . We now have 20% of the beauty market in South Africa . " <p> Sales for the period under review were affected in part by the late arrival of some summer ranges owing to the ports crisis . Turnover and concession sales grew by 2.2% , with store sales increasing by 1.5% . <p> The group 's turnover and concession sales from continuing operations were up by 5.4% . <p> The final six weeks of the period , which included festive season trade , was up by 7.2% . <p> The apparel business -- which is struggling in Australia -- saw a 7.4% decline in earnings per share ( EPS ) from continuing operations , while headline EPS declined by 7.5% and 31% across the group . <p> The economic environment in South Africa was and remained challenging , exacerbated by the energy and logistics crises which hurt business and consumer confidence . <p> However , despite the difficulties , its combined southern Africa business grew operating profit by 10% on last year . <p> Woolworths Financial Services ( WFS ) showed a 4.9% increase in new accounts and credit card advances . The annualised impairment rate for the period was up slightly to 6.3% , from 5.5% in the prior period . <p> Bagattini said WFS was a " very interesting business " . <p> " Obviously , it is very much subject to the economic cycle . We 've seen a significant return to profitability and performance of that business . We 're also growing our book . <p> " But if you look at the impairment ratio , we have the lowest level of impairment , given our approach to credit and given the relative target market of our other financial offerings . It is the healthiest book in this sector . " <p> In Australasia , trading conditions have worsened : consumer sentiment in Australia is at near-record lows and household savings are the weakest since the global financial crisis . <p> Woolworths noted in a statement that there was a marked shift from spending on goods to services . <p> Country Road 's sales were down by 5% and 9.5% in comparable stores , although it said the brand was delivering a market-leading performance across key categories . <p> " Overall trading space increased by 6.6% during the period , supported by the ongoing expansion of our wholesale and concession channels . The contribution from online sales increased marginally to 26.8% of total sales . " <p> The rest of the financial year was likely to remain difficult , with rising inflation and high interest rates putting pressure on consumers the world over -- but South Africa also had the energy , ports and other crises to contend with , alongside the upcoming elections and ongoing global geopolitical tensions . DM <h> Wednesday , 31 January 2024 <p> Astral Foods reports its first loss in 23 years <p> If 2023 was a disastrous year for Astral Foods , the chicken producer seems to be more hopeful for the future . After last year 's intensive rolling blackouts , water supply issues , record high input costs and a crushing outbreak of the highly pathogenic avian influenza ( HPAI ) , Astral reported its first loss in its 23-year history . <p> On Wednesday , it was more optimistic , saying that it was expecting to return to profitability in the first quarter of the financial year ending 30 September 2024 , after making good headway in addressing some of its recent issues , including maintaining emergency backup generator capacity at all its operations ; benefitting from lower stages of rolling blackouts , which helped keep a lid on diesel costs ; putting uninterrupted water supply systems in place to reduce downtime ; keeping feeding costs low ; and normalising the poultry sales mix , which was previously affected by heavy promotional discounting . <p> Despite reduced levels of blackouts , Astral was still forced to run its Standerton poultry processing plant on diesel because of municipal power supply interruptions . <p> It also said it had managed to avoid a shortage of chicken during the outbreak of HPAI , which increased costs as it had to import broiler hatching eggs . <p> Owing to what it called " depressed consumer spending " , Astral said it had aligned broiler slaughter numbers to adapt to the current market conditions , and was committed to recovering its input costs . <p> Of the International Trade Administration Commission 's ( Itac 's ) announcement on poultry sector rebates , which was in response to HPAI-related shortages , Astral said it was dismayed at Itac 's recommended poultry import tariff rebate structure . <p> " No shortage of chicken has been experienced or expected in the local supply chain with industry production at normalised levels due to numerous contingency plans implemented . " <p> After last year 's disastrous results , Astral now says it expects that earnings per share and headline earnings per share for the six months ending 31 March 2024 could increase by " at least 300% " to 647c and 654c , respectively . <p> Importers , however , hailed Itac 's announcement . <p> Hume International 's logistics and operations director Roy Thomas said consumers had reason to celebrate , as Itac confirmed that it was lifting punitive tariffs on imported chicken . <p> " This decision was made in response to the impacts of HPAI ... which has ravaged both global and local poultry supplies . Heeding calls and warnings from importers and businesses such as Hume International regarding the serious consequences of the outbreak on the cost of chicken , Itac 's tariff rebate represents a welcome reprieve for consumers -- especially low-income households . " <p> Thomas said despite claims that bird flu had little impact on supplies or prices on shelves last year , Statistics South Africa 's latest inflation figures showed that egg prices surged by 38% , chicken giblets by 18.3% , fresh chicken portions by 14.6% , whole chicken by 8.4% and individual quick frozen portions by 6.4% -- all above average inflation for 2023 . <p> " These price increases clearly reflect the ongoing impacts of bird flu both locally and abroad , in addition to the effect of new import tariffs implemented in August last year . " DM <h> Tuesday , 30 January 2024 <p> Checkers Sixty60 delivers a competitive edge for Shoprite <p> Reliable , convenient and quick home deliveries have given South Africa 's largest retail group , Shoprite , the upper hand , boosting sales through its Checkers Sixty60 delivery platform by 63.1% over the past six months . <p> The group ended the second half of 2023 on a high , with sales up by almost 14% to R121.1-billion , helped along by a record Black Friday and festive season trade . <p> In an update on Tuesday , Shoprite said its Shoprite and Checkers Xtra Savings rewards programme had also saved customers R8.4-billion over the period . <p> The group 's core business in South Africa enjoyed a healthy 14.6% jump in sales . <p> Internal selling price inflation for the period was 7.7% . Checkers and Checkers Hyper grew sales by 13.7% , Shoprite and Usave were up by 13.1% and liquor sales , through LiquorShop , were up by 25.2% . <p> The group said its robust sales were favourably boosted by its acquisition of 94 stores from the Massmart group , which added 51 Shoprite , one Usave and 42 Shoprite LiquorShops to its stable . <p> Over the past 12 months , the group grew by 285 stores , bringing its total number of stores to 2,237 . <p> Outside South Africa , where Shoprite has outlets in Ghana , Angola , Mozambique and Zambia , sales were up 20% , increasing in rand value by 6.2% . It has added nine more stores in nine countries over the past year , bringing that total to 258 . <p> Reflecting the impact of the cost-of-living crisis on consumers ' pockets , furniture sales were in the doldrums : OK Furniture and House &amp; Home increased sales by just 1.7% . <p> Consumers are increasingly cash-strapped , spending less on discretionary items like clothes and appliances while channeling their money towards the necessities of life . <p> The OK Franchise division was up by 25% , increasing its store base by 70 stores over the year . A total of 605 stores are now franchises . <p> Diesel , to power generators due to increased rolling blackouts , cost Shoprite half a billion rand over the period . DM <h> Monday , 29 January 2024 <p> Truworths owes buoyant sales to Office stores <p> Clothing retailer Truworths owes most of its healthy recent sales to shoe sales at the group 's UK-based Office stores , which saw a double-digit increase -- in pounds -- over the past six months . <p> Store account sales have been flat since 2022 , comprising 70% of all retail sales , while 0.9% fewer customers were paying for their goods in cash . <p> The retail group released a trading update today , for the period from 3 July 2023 to 31 December 2023 , which showed an 8.2% increase in retail sales to R12.2-billion compared with the previous financial period from 4 July 2022 to 1 January 2023 . <p> Sales at Office grew by 15.6% to ? 162-million relative to the prior period 's ? 140-million , which in rand terms saw growth of 33.1% to R3.8-billion . <p> It said Office was benefiting from its " unique market positioning , brand partnerships and strong online presence " . Online sales comprised 47% of Office 's retail sales in the current period , growing by 3% in the prior period . The last nine weeks of 2023 saw an 11.7% increase in retail sales to ? 71-million . Office is expected to grow by 12% for the 2024 financial period , due to greater investment in stores and renovations . <p> Truworths Africa was down by 0.3% . Poor economic conditions and high interest rates ate into consumers ' disposable income , which affected sales . The group granted less credit due to consumers ' declining credit health , which also hurt sales . Retail sales were down 1.6% to R4-billion for the last nine weeks of the year . Online sales , though , were robust , increasing by 41% and contributing 4.2% to Truworths Africa 's retail sales . <p> Once again , a retailer blames port congestion for weaker-than-expected sales , which resulted in reduced deliveries ahead of the Christmas season . <p> Last week , Mr Price said the Durban port congestion disrupted festive season trade , as it kept an eye on the instability of the Red Sea shipping route which has increased time on the water . This also increased shipping costs , although Mr Price said its rates were contracted until June . <p> TFG said economic conditions in all its operating territories remained challenging . <p> In its update on 24 January , TFG said : " In South Africa , this was exacerbated by continued load shedding and delays experienced at ports , which impeded the planned flow of inventory . The impact of these import delays was offset to an extent by the ability to increase volumes from TFG 's local manufacturing capacity . " <p> Woolworths , too , said in its half-year results that the energy crisis -- compounded by the fiasco at South Africa 's ports , the cost-of-living crisis and bird flu -- had weighed down sales . DM <h> Wednesday , 24 January 2024 <p> TFG reports healthy growth in turnover <p> TFG 's latest results show e-commerce is booming . Bash , its online sales platform , grew by almost 45% over the nine months leading up to 30 December , contributing 4.2% towards the group 's Africa business . <p> The group also saw a 9% growth in turnover , largely owing to robust festive season trading and growth in its Africa division . <p> In a trading update released on Wednesday , the group , which owns the Foschini , @Home , American Swiss , Coricraft and 30 other brands , said it also grew turnover in the last three months of 2023 by 4.5% . <p> Turnover was healthier closer to home than in the UK and Australia : TFG Africa grew turnover by 5.1% in Q3 and for the month of December , by almost 12% . TFG Africa 's cash turnover -- which grew by 6.6% in Q3 FY2024 -- now comprises 75.8% of the division 's Africa turnover and 82.4% of group turnover . <p> Once again , a retailer has bemoaned rolling blackouts : On Tuesday , Woolworths noted in its half-year results that the energy crisis -- compounded by the fiasco at South Africa 's ports , the cost-of-living crisis and bird flu -- had weighed down sales . <p> TFG says turnover has been affected by a softer Black Friday period in South Africa , with Stage 6 load shedding implemented over that weekend . <p> Its London operations saw a 3% decline in turnover , after the strong bounceback after Covid-19 recovery base in Q3 of 2022 , while TFG Australia was down by 7.3% in Australian dollars . <p> Credit turnover was minuscule , up by just 0.7% in Q3 , as the group kept a beady eye on the economic climate and accepted only 17.8% of new accounts . <p> In a Sens announcement , TFG said economic conditions in all its operating territories remain challenging . <p> " In South Africa , this was exacerbated by continued load shedding and delays experienced at ports , which impeded the planned flow of inventory . The impact of these import delays was offset to an extent by the ability to increase volumes from TFG 's local manufacturing capacity . " <p> Both TFG London and TFG Australia 's performances were to be viewed in the context of exceptional performance after Covid recovery , the group said , adding that consumers were under pressure from the cost-of-living crisis . <p> TFG said trading conditions and consumer confidence were likely to remain under pressure , due to inflation and interest rates , and South Africa 's energy crisis and port chaos . DM <h> Tuesday , 23 January 2024 <p> Woolies counts on food as other divisions hit by ports , energy , bird flu and economic crises <p> Congestion at the ports , bird flu and the energy crisis are all weighing heavily on Woolworths ' sales in South Africa , which have also been dragged down in both its home market as well as Australia by the cost-of-living crisis . <p> The food , apparel and homeware retailer released its half-year results on Tuesday for the year ended 24 December 2023 , which reveal strong growth from its robust food business in light of a difficult economic environment . <p> Building on the 15 November 2023 update it released on Sens , it said its performance for the current period has been shaped by an increasingly difficult macroeconomic backdrop due to the sustained effect of interest rate increases and higher living costs . <p> This was evident in reduced footfall and a greater-than-expected pullback in discretionary spending in both SA and Australia . <p> South African operations were further bruised by higher levels of rolling blackouts , congestion at the ports and the impact of the bird flu outbreak that was affecting key food product lines . <p> Woolworths said the economic environment in South Africa " remains challenging , exacerbated by the country 's energy and logistics crises , which continue to impact both business and consumer confidence " . <p> Despite bird flu , the energy crisis and the port snarl-ups , the food business delivered solid growth , with sales up by 8.4% . <p> But the fashion , beauty and home business -- reliant on imports -- suffered over this period , with turnover and concession sales up by just 2.2% , during what should have seen peak sales . <p> Black Friday and the festive season helped boost sales in the last six weeks of the period under review by 3.8% . <p> More customers were signing up for credit , as Woolworths Financial Services saw a year-on-year increase of 4.9% to the end of December 2023 , as customers opened new accounts and credit cards . <p> Impairments were up by 6.3% , compared with 5.5% in the prior period , suggesting customers were under increased strain . <p> Country Road was battling in Australia and New Zealand , as trading conditions worsened in both countries : sales were down by 5% and 9.5% in comparable stores , although it said this should be viewed off a high base in the prior period , which saw sales growth of 25.5% after the strong recovery from the Covid lockdowns . DM <h> Wednesday , 29 November 2023 <p> Naspers doubles profits , says profitability in e-commerce is within reach <p> Naspers has released its interim results alongside its Amsterdam investment arm , Prosus . <p> Naspers has doubled profits over the past six months . The multinational internet and tech group released its interim results on Wednesday for the half-year ending 30 September , alongside those of its Amsterdam-based investment arm , Prosus . <p> September marked the fourth anniversary of listing Prosus on the Euronext Amsterdam , which created Europe 's largest consumer internet company . <p> Introduced two years ago , Prosus owned nearly half of its South African parent ( 49.5% ) , while the latter owned 61% of Prosus , in the cross-holding arrangement . The South African Reserve Bank approved a buy-back scheme that allowed Naspers to buy back more of its shares and work to undo the cross-holding , the companies announced in June . <p> The group said it had made significant progress on its commitments to steer Prosus 's e-commerce to profitability by the first half of 2025 -- it is now targeting profitability for the second half of 2024 -- and continue its open-ended share repurchase programme ; simplify its structure through removing the cross-holding , and highlight the value in its portfolio of assets . <p> Ervin Tu , interim group CEO for both Prosus and Naspers , said in a company statement that they were making substantial progress towards driving profitable growth . <p> " Through active management of our portfolio , we have delivered improved results as our e-commerce portfolio is now close to break-even and growing at scale . <p> " We 've simplified our group structure , and the open-ended buyback programme is driving daily NAV ( net-asset value ) per share growth , magnifying returns over the long term . <p> " With deep institutional knowledge across a number of technology domains , including AI , we are well positioned to support exceptional technology companies around the world . <p> " We remain ambitious in our plans and disciplined in our approach to drive real returns for all of our stakeholders , " said Tu . <p> Core headline earnings more than doubled , increasing by 112% , due to improved e-commerce and Tencent profitability . <p> Its free cash inflow increased to $677-million -- an eightfold year-on-year improvement , and it has access to more than $15.1-billion in cash . <p> Takealot has sold more products and grown revenue by 15% and 9% respectively . Naspers attributed rising interest rates , inflation , depressed consumer demand and rolling blackouts for creating strain on the business . <p> The Takealot group has reduced its trading losses by 85% when measured in US dollars . Takealot.com grew its total sales by 15% and expanded its marketplace seller base , which reached about 10,600 sellers in September 2023 . <p> Mr D , its food , grocery and convenience delivery service , grew revenue by 11% and sales by 15% in rand value . <p> It said Mr D 's partnership with Pick n Pay continues to grow . <p> Prosus held 25% of Tencent at the end of the reporting period . <p> E-commerce trading losses were sharply down , reducing from a peak of $270-million to $38-million in the period under review . <p> Consolidated group revenue from continuing operations increased by $248-million , or 9% , due primarily to strong revenue growth in classifieds , food delivery , and payments and fintech . DM <h> Monday , 27 November 2023 <p> Oceana thanks its Lucky Star for jump in profits <p> Fishing and food processing company , Oceana has seen a 28.9% jump in net profit , thanks largely to its popular Lucky Star range of tinned fish and record performance from its international subsidiary , Daybrook Fisheries . <p> Daybrook produces fishmeal and fish oil , sold primarily to the US pet food and global animal and aquaculture markets . <p> Lucky Star has seen a surge in sales this year , in a constrained environment , as consumers switch to more affordable forms of protein . Oceana released its annual results on Monday for the year ended 30 September 2023 , which revealed a 28.9% rise in headline earnings , to R980-million , largely driven by strong performances from Daybrook , which raised operating profit in dollar terms by 30% , and Lucky Star , which grew sales by 9% . Another element in Lucky Star 's favour : Rolling blackouts , because customers are increasingly drawn to shelf-stable products like tinned fish because they are a safe and convenient protein . <p> Local canning production volumes were up by 13.1% to 5.2 million cartons . Inventory levels were 18.7% higher than the previous year . <p> Revenue was up by 22.6% to R10-billion , supported by improved pricing across its products and the effect of the weaker rand on exports , while operating profit from continuing operations climbed by almost 20% to R1.5-billion -- the highest level since 2016 . <p> The group also reduced its debt levels to the lowest since it acquired Daybrook in 2015 . <p> Despite positive price movements , the group said its gross margin reduced from 30.8% in 2023 to 28.6% this year , due to rising input costs , which were not passed on to consumers to maintain affordability , lower catch volumes and fish oil yields in both the SA and the US fishmeal and fish oil operations , poorer catch rates for its SA hake and horse mackerel fleets and costs related to rolling blackouts . <p> Its profit after tax increased by 25.2% to R990-million . <p> Oceana CEO Neville Brink said a diversification strategy across species , geographies , and currencies helped it to deliver strong growth despite the operating environment being characterised by high inflation and interest rates , currency volatility , a low-growth domestic economy and increased rolling blackouts . <p> " Diversification enabled us to benefit from higher demand and better hard-currency pricing for many of our products . Record global fish oil prices particularly helped Daybrook . By building and holding higher inventory levels we were able to capitalise on the demand . In the domestic market , investing in our volume strategy for Lucky Star by absorbing some inflationary input costs and protecting consumers has paid off , as reflected in our sales growth . " <p> Oceana 's new canned meat factory opened in October 2023 . It plans to leverage the brand strength of Lucky Star to release other canned food categories in the new year . <p> Brink said Oceana would continue to grow Lucky Star sales by ensuring high levels of availability and keeping the product affordable relative to competing proteins . <p> " While we will remain responsive to the impact of rand weakness on Lucky Star margins , our high exposure to foreign-currency earnings provides a natural hedge against rand volatility . " <p> The shift in the weather cycle to the El Ni ? o effect is expected to improve fishing conditions and catch rates of South African hake , horse mackerel and squid . <p> Oceana was recently allocated a 15-year fishing right . DM <h> Tuesday , 21 November 2023 <p> African Bank swings from a loss to a profit intra-year on the back of acquisitions <p> African Bank 's net profits after tax swung from a loss of R44-million in the first half of the year to a profit of R549-million in the second half . However , this was partially due to a boost from the R1.5-billion acquisition of Grindrod Bank in 2022 . <p> As part of its growth strategy , management has also been quite deliberate in diversifying , moving from what was largely a retail consumer-focused bank to a bank looking to strengthen its offerings through alliances that now bring business banking and insurance to the table . <p> " There was a very clear focus this year to integrate the Ubank businesses that we acquired , the Grindrod business and further organic growth beyond our comfort zone of consumer unsecured lending . The resultant derisking of the balance sheet positions us favourably for both scale and sustainability going forward , " says group chief executive officer , Kennedy Bungane , announcing the company 's annual results to the end of September 2023 . <p> Despite a worrying jump in non-performing loans ( NPL ) , which climbed to 42% from 37% last year , African Bank remains confident that it is firmly on the path to success <p> Management says the rising NPL number is due to several factors including : <p> More selective disbursements in consumer banking resulting in a shrinking advances book , where NPLs comprise a bigger percentage of the total book . <p> Refocused collections processes and workstreams have been implemented and are starting to bear fruit . <p> The bank revealed that it had grown active customer numbers to just under four million . However , more than half of this number comes from Alliance Banking or banking partnerships with MTN Momo , Shoprite Checkers and fintech company Lesaka . <p> Sibongiseni Ngundze , chief executive of consumer banking , says the bank saw a 52% growth in transaction volumes over the year , moving to 53 million transactions , largely at point-of-sale and ATMs . <p> These transactions added up to a hefty R58.6-billion in value . DM <h> Monday , 20 November 2023 <p> Bird flu and rolling blackouts take R1.6-bn toll on Astral Foods <p> Six months after it announced that rolling blackouts had cost three-quarters of a billion rand in just half a year , South Africa 's second-biggest poultry producer , Astral Foods , has released its annual results , revealing that it had incurred a R1.6-billion loss over the past year . <p> This is Astral 's first loss in its 23-year history . <p> It also had to write off more than a million birds due to the bird flu outbreak , which cost it more than R400-million . <p> Revenue for the year ended 30 September 2023 was R19.3-billion , in line with that achieved in FY2022 , but while revenue in its feed division was up slightly year-on-year , revenue in the poultry division -- which adds 82% towards its total revenue -- was down due to a 9.6% drop in sales . <p> The group has reported a full-year loss before interest and tax of R621-million ( last year , it made R1.4-billion in profit ) , due to costs associated with rolling blackouts , the outbreak of avian influenza and poor market trading conditions . <p> It spent R398-million on emergency diesel generators and additional water cost a further R168-million . The group has a R1.74-billion overdraft . <p> Astral 's poultry division was further hit by increased expenses of R1.6-billion ( rolling blackouts ) , R31-million ( water supply interruptions ) and R400-million due to bird flu . <p> Revenue was down 0.8% due to a decrease in broiler sales volumes and a " less than ideal " product mix , it said , because of a backlog in the slaughter programme caused by rolling blackouts . This resulted in heavier and older birds staying on the farm for longer . <p> Broiler slaughter numbers were down by 15.3% , sales volumes were down by 9.6% and frozen poultry stock levels were higher . <p> The feed division 's revenue was up by 11.9% to R11.6-billion , due to higher feed selling prices . <p> " Biological asset write-downs " , or costs associated with culling chickens due to bird flu , cost the group R400.5-million . <p> Local chicken producers have been ravaged by the bird flu outbreak . Quantum Foods , the country 's biggest chicken and egg producer , announced on 10 November that it had incurred a loss of R155.3-million , due to culling . DM <p> Netcare posts healthy results and sets ambitious climate targets <p> The hospital group saw revenue climb by 9.5% to R23.7bn , while higher activity levels saw normalised operating profit increase by 24% to R2.8bn . <p> Despite diesel generator costs catapulting by 235% year on year to R124-million , Netcare posted pleasing results for the year to the end of September , giving shareholders more than R1.1-billion in dividends and share buybacks . <p> The hospital group has ambitious climate targets , having set itself a goal of achieving 100% utilisation requirements from renewable sources , with zero waste to landfill and an additional 20% reduction of impact on water sources by 2030 . It has already reduced energy intensity per bed by 39% , exceeding the initial 10-year target set in 2013 , and has achieved cumulative operational savings and benefits of more than R1.5-billion to date , yielding an IRR of 40% . <p> Less than a month ago , Netcare concluded an agreement for a renewable energy supply arrangement with NOA Group Trading , a renewable energy trader . From the first quarter of 2026 , up to 100% of six Netcare sites ' energy consumption -- comprising about 11% of Netcare 's total energy consumption -- will be supplied from renewable energy sources through a combination of wind and solar farms . <p> Outgoing chief executive Richard Friedland , who has agreed to stay on for another six months until his replacement is ready to take over the reins next year , noted that there were several headwinds in place . <p> " First , we have interest rates that are at a 14-year high . Then there is the catastrophic collapse of the grid , which still remains incredibly fragile and uncertain . We 've seen some high inflationary changes coming through on the back of service delivery failures . All these factors make for an incredibly difficult macro-environment , " he said . <p> In line with the mental health crisis that has persisted since the Covid pandemic , Netcare 's Akeso clinics ' mental healthcare patient days increased by 12.7% . The newly opened Netcare Akeso Gqeberha facility , along with the 36-bed Netcare Akeso Richards Bay facility commissioned in May 2022 , contributed to this growth . <p> The strong increase in mental healthcare activity resulted in occupancies improving to 72.7% in the 2023 financial year from 68.1% the previous year . The market reacted favourably , with Netcare 's share price moving up by 6% on Monday to close at R13.77 . DM <h> Friday , 17 November 2023 <p> Life Healthcare will sell off its Alliance Medical Group diagnostic imaging business to iCON Infrastructure in a deal that is expected to net R10.8-billion . <p> While a pending R21-million deal spells good news for listed hospital group Life Healthcare , the market did not react favourably on Wednesday to its annual results for the year to end September , with the share price falling more than 6% intraday , and more than 8% over the past three months . <p> Although group revenue climbed 10% to R22.6-billion , operating profit slid 12% to R2.4-billion . <p> However , management hastened to reassure investors , pointing out that the group remains in a strong financial position , with net debt to Ebitda at 2.0x , compared with the 2.17x reported for the six months to 31 March 2023 . <p> " We concluded two significant funder network deals , which contributed to increased activities and occupancies . We rolled out our renal integrated care product across our renal dialysis business and we made good progress in expanding our imaging and nuclear medicine businesses in southern Africa " he says . <p> The R21-million deal will see Life Healthcare sell off its Alliance Medical Group diagnostic imaging business to iCON Infrastructure in a deal that is expected to net R10.8-billion in proceeds , pending approval from shareholders and regulators . <p> Shareholders are expected to see about R8.4-billion of this money , while R2.4-billion will be reserved for future growth initiatives . DM <h> Monday , 6 November 2023 <p> Dis-Chem 's weakening performance shows that Covid-era profits are over <p> The soaring profits of the Covid era appear to be over , judging by Dis-Chem 's latest interim results , which reveal that profit has declined sharply over the past six months , despite a 9.4% revenue increase to R17.9-billion . <p> For the period from 1 March to 31 August , revenue grew by 8.1% to R15.6-billion , with pharmacy store revenue growth at just 5.9% . Covid-19 vaccines and testing had weighed heavily on the prior period 's results : if factored out from both periods , retail revenue would have grown by 9.2% . <p> Over the past six months , the group , which has a market cap of R21.72-billion , opened or acquired 10 retail pharmacies , which swells its footprint to 268 retail pharmacy stores and 54 retail baby stores . <p> In the period under review , Dis-Chem reserved R279-million in capital expenditure : R156-million for expansion ( including stores as well as IT ) and R123-million to maintain the existing retail and wholesale networks . <p> Last month , the Competition Commission approved the purchase of the 63,000m ? distribution centre in Gauteng , which will cost Dis-Chem R502-million and will hike capex for H1 . <p> Dis-Chem 's wholesale revenue , which is still its biggest revenue driver , grew by 13.5% to R13.7-billion . The Local Choice franchises grew by 19.1% , while its independent pharmacies grew by 18% . <p> Contrast that with market leader Clicks , which expanded its retail footprint to 885 stores with the opening of 45 new stores in a year . The group now has a network of more than 880 stores and 710 pharmacies , supported by a growing digital presence . Over the past year , its turnover grew by 8.2% ( excluding vaccinations ) to R41.6-billion , with retail turnover increasing by 12.2% . <p> Clicks plans to open between 40 and 50 new stores and 40 to 50 pharmacies , with a capex of R880-million for the 2024 financial year . This includes R487-million for new stores and pharmacies and the refurbishment of 50 to 60 stores . It 's also investing R393-million in supply chain , technology and infrastructure . <p> The retail pharmacy space is heavily concentrated : the Spar group has more than 140 independently owned Pharmacy at Spar stores nationwide , including clinics at selected stores , the Shoprite group ( trading under the MediRite name ) has 134 , and the Link group has more than 200 across southern Africa . <p> Dis-Chem 's total income grew by 5.1% to R5.4-billion and retail total income grew by 6.5% , with retail margins down from 30.2% to 29.8% . <p> Basic earnings per share and basic headline earnings per share are 58.3 cents and 58.2 cents per share , respectively , which are down by 16.7% and 17.2% , respectively . <p> The group 's retail expenses grew by 11.3% , as Dis-Chem invested in new stores and acquisitions . Other costs included a sharp rise in employee costs of 9.8% , higher diesel costs to run generators during power outages , higher IT costs due to a new point-of-sale system roll-out , and increased advertising expenditure . Wholesale expenses grew by 5.5% due to the increase in volumes through the wholesale space resulting in an increase in casual labour shifts as well as higher diesel and municipal costs . <p> It has declared an interim cash dividend of 23.24348 cents per share , based on 40% of headline earnings , which is down by 17.3% from the prior comparable period . <p> Last year 's interim results painted a more upbeat picture : Dis-Chem reported double-digit group and retail income increases , as the Covid threat receded and customers spent on non-pandemic-related items . Its aggressive expansion programme added 251 retail pharmacy stores and 53 retail baby stores over the period , and total income grew by 22.8% to R5.2-billion for the six months ended 31 August . Group revenue also grew 9.3% to R16.3-billion , with retail revenue rising to R14.4-billion . <p> Commenting on the results , CEO Rui Morais , who succeeded Ivan Saltzman on 1 July , said they were satisfied with the group 's performance during the period , notwithstanding a tough trading environment . <p> " The constrained economic environment , higher interest rates and costs associated with load shedding have resulted in a weaker performance by the group over the prior comparative period . " <p> He said the group had also been affected by the base effects of the prior year 's performance , which were distinctly different across the two halves of the year , with the first half of the prior year delivering a strong performance when compared with the second half of the prior year . <p> " A more equal distribution of earnings across halves is expected in the current financial year . Contributing to the stronger first-half performance in the prior year was the acquisitions of the warehouse properties resulting in a R72-million once-off gain from the release of the lease liability and right-of-use asset as well as the impact of Covid-19 vaccine administration and testing services , which has ended and did not contribute in the current financial period . " DM <h> Thursday , 2 November 2023 <p> Pepkor customers under socioeconomic pressure , group says in trading update <p> The cost-of-living crisis is eating into the profits of one of South Africa 's most affordable retail groups , Pepkor Holdings . <p> Pepkor , which counts PEP , Ackermans , Shoe City , HiFi Corp and BUCO among its subsidiaries , issued a trading update on Thursday for the year ended 30 September , ahead of its annual results , which are expected at the end of November . <p> The investment and holding company said its customers were under financial pressure due to the high cost of living , high unemployment , rolling blackouts and the disruption of social grant payments . <p> In May , when announcing its interim results to the end of March 2023 , Pepkor ? ? raised concern about the disruptions to SA Social Security Agency payments , which were hurting its low-income customers . At the time , it said its customers had no choice " but to prioritise spending on necessities to contend with high levels of inflation , in particular , the increased cost of food and transport " , adding that their ability to earn an income was also affected by " unprecedented levels of electricity load shedding and disruption in social grant payments " . <p> It said trading hours lost by the group due to rolling blackouts had increased by close to 500% during this period ( 211,000 hours ) . Diesel costs increased by 142% to R72-million for the period . <p> Business has bounced back for Pepkor in the second half of this year , with group revenue , which included a 53rd trading week , increasing by 7.7% to R87.4-billion . The group 's Avenida business in Brazil ( which it acquired in February 2022 ) added 4.3% in FY23 to Pepkor 's revenue , from 2.4% in the previous year . <p> On a comparable 52-week basis , group revenue increased by 6.5% for the year . <p> Revenue grew sharply in the second half to 8.8% , boosted by stronger sales : Merchandise sales were up by 6.4% , with sales growing by 8.2% in the second quarter , as compared with just 4.8% in H1 . <p> Key product categories did well for business units : PEP grew its babies , adults and home segments ; Ackermans gained market share in its schoolwear , younger girls and lingerie segments ; and the JD Group ( which owns Russells , HiFi Corp and Incredible Connection ) expanded in computer and audio-based merchandise . <p> The group said trading in durable products and the building materials market was weaker , which weighed on the JD Group and The Building Company 's performance , but both businesses did better than their peers . <p> BUCO ( The Building Company ) was relatively stagnant , with sales at the hardware stores up by 0.8% in both H1 and H2 . <p> Stats SA 's latest building update , released on 19 October , suggested that residential completions were down by 9.4% year on year . Confidence among builders also dipped in Q3 of this year , according to the Bureau for Economic Research . <p> Pepkor 's group cash sales were up by 5.6% and credit sales were sharply up , by 35.6% , due to the implementation of the group 's credit interoperability strategy in its South African clothing , footwear and home retail brands . <p> However , with 90% of its sales in cash , Pepkor said " credit is not a material sales enabler for the group . Credit continues to be granted on a prudent basis within the group 's conservative credit methodologies . " <p> Tenacity Financial Services opened a record number of new accounts ( 794,000 ) during the year , which helped sales via cross-shopping by customers in group retail brands . <p> " The group maintained its conservative approach to credit granting . Collections , non-performing loans and provision levels remain well within tolerable levels across all credit books . " <p> However , its credit book growth had increased debtors ' costs for the year . <p> It opened 324 new stores this year , which brings Pepkor 's total to 5,917 stores . <p> Pepkor 's annual results will be published on 29 November . DM <h> Tuesday , 31 October 2023 <p> SAB 's Zamalek drives sales for AB InBev in South Africa <p> It 's been a thirsty season and Zamalek -- also known as Carling Black Label , South Africa 's top beer brand -- has given AB InBev 's local operator South African Breweries ( SAB ) a healthy boost this quarter , with volume growth in the high teens . <p> Volumes of global brands grew by more than 35% , driven by Corona and Stella Artois , said the world 's biggest brewer , AB InBev , reflecting on its results for the third quarter of 2023 . <p> The brewing giant 's local unit , SAB saw revenue per hectolitre ( hl ) growth in the high-single digits , driven by what it said was " revenue management initiatives and continued premiumisation " . <p> In the first nine months of the year , revenue grew by the mid-teens , with high-single-digit revenue per hl growth and a mid-single-digit increase in volume . Ebitda increased by 9.6% . <p> The group 's top line grew by 7.1% in South Africa , with revenue per hl increasing by 7.3% . Volumes were flattish , growing by 5.7% <p> " The momentum of our business continued in the third quarter , gaining share of both beer and total alcohol , according to our estimates . Carling Black Label , the number one beer brand in the country , led our performance this quarter with high-teens volume growth , and our global brands grew volumes by more than 35% , driven by Corona and Stella Artois . " <p> Globally , total revenue was up 5% per hl , with growth of 9% . Underlying profit was up $1.735-billion in Q3 2023 compared to $1.682-billion in Q3 2022 . <p> Budweiser , Stella Artois , Corona and Michelob Ultra did well for the brewing giant outside their home markets , with a 16.3% increase in Q3 . <p> However , despite the top-line increase of 5% , revenue growth in about 80% of their markets was driven by pricing actions , ongoing premiumisation and other revenue management initiatives . <p> Volumes were down by 3.4% , as growth in the Middle Americas , Africa and Asia Pacific regions was primarily offset by performance in the US and a soft industry in Europe . <p> The no-alcohol portfolio grew : Sober October wrapped up on Tuesday , and AB InBev has seen strong growth in the no-alcohol portfolio globally , driven by Budweiser Zero in Brazil and Corona Cero in Canada , Mexico and Europe . <p> Revenue from premium brands grew by 15.1% outside their home markets : Corona was up by 18.8% , Budweiser by 11.8% , Stella Artois by 20.3% and Michelob Ultra by 11.5% . <p> The Beyond Beer category saw a mid-single-digit increase , globally offset by a soft malt-based seltzer industry in the US . Global growth was driven by the expansion of Flying Fish in Africa and the Vicky portfolio in Mexico . <p> Leveraging their digital direct-to-consumer products , the group is developing new consumer insights and consumption occasions . <p> Across Latin America , Z ? Delivery and TaDa are driving increased in-home consumption of returnable glass bottle packs by making them more available and convenient , said Michel Doukeris , CEO of AB InBev . <p> " The strength of our global footprint delivered another quarter of top and bottom-line growth . Revenue increased by 5% with an Ebitda increase of 4.1% . We continue to invest in our strategic priorities for the long-term . " <p> About 66% of the group 's revenue is through B2B digital platforms , with the monthly active user base reaching 3.4 million users . <p> On 25 October , AB InBev 's rival , Heineken , reported that it had sold 4.2% less beer in the third quarter , as the Dutch brewer faced a difficult macroeconomic climate and consumers were turned off by higher prices . <p> In August , Heineken sold its Russia operations for one euro -- more than a year after saying it would quit its business there due to the war in Ukraine , and a month after a South African representative assured Daily Maverick in July this year that it had long since exited its Russian business . <p> Heineken in August sold its business in Russia to domestic firm Arnest Group , which took 100% of shares and assets , including its seven breweries , for a symbolic single euro . It said it had provided employment guarantees for 1,800 employees for three years . <p> The company had faced criticism for dragging out its departure from Russia , which it vowed to exit in March 2022 shortly after the full-scale invasion of Ukraine . Heineken and other large firms with manufacturing operations in Russia have said leaving has been a complex process with a high risk of assets falling under state control . <p> CNBC reported that volumes were down 4.2% on the previous year , taking the decline across the first nine months of 2023 to 5.1% . Revenue was higher in the quarter due to price hikes , up 2% to $10.17-billion . DM <h> Thursday , 26 October 2023 <p> Leading pharmacy chain Clicks seems fit as a fiddle after declaring its annual results for the year ended 31 August 2023 , although it warned that trading conditions were likely to remain constrained in the new financial year . <p> The health and beauty retailer and pharmacy group has a network of over 880 stores and 710 pharmacies , supported by a growing digital presence . <p> It has revealed that group turnover for 2023 was up 8.2% ( excluding vaccinations ) to R41.6-billion , with retail turnover increasing by 12.2% . <p> Distribution turnover grew by 1.5% for the year as UPD -- which provides bulk distribution services for the Clicks Group , major private hospital groups and 1,200 independent pharmacies , as well as pharmaceutical manufacturers -- was affected by lost sales opportunities to Clicks and private hospitals during a systems implementation in the first half , as well as lower demand from pharmacies and a shift of products within UPD . <p> Adjusted total income grew by 10.8% to R12.2-billion ( up 7.6% including the insurance recoveries ) . <p> The retail margin expanded by 130 basis points and saw strong growth in higher-margin private label products and the recovery in the beauty category , while the low-margin vaccination programme came to an end . <p> Retail costs were affected by higher insurance premiums and diesel costs , increasing by 11.4% , while retail costs grew by 7.4% . <p> Retail sales , which includes Clicks , GNC , The Body Shop and Sorbet , increased by 12.2% ( excluding vaccinations ) . <p> Clicks expanded its retail footprint to 885 stores with the opening of 45 new stores in the year under review . Its national pharmacy presence has grown by a further 38 pharmacies , bringing the total to 711 . <p> Distribution costs also increased by 13.4% due to higher insurance , transport and diesel costs , as well as increased employment costs . <p> Rolling blackouts loaded a further R53.8-million on to their running costs . <p> The retail operating margin was up by 60 basis points to 10% due to the growth in higher-margin product categories . <p> Total headline earnings , including insurance recoveries in the previous year , grew by 0.8% to R2.5-billion . Basic earnings per share was down by 3.5% to 1,042 cents , with diluted Heps increasing by 1.1% to 1,045 cents . <p> Clicks said the group had delivered stronger second-half turnover growth and recorded market share gains in all core product categories in an " environment of growing pressure on consumer disposable income " . <p> Strong growth in private label sales and the sustained recovery in the beauty category were boosted by the Clicks ClubCard loyalty programme which has grown to 10.4 million active members . <p> Clicks ClubCard members earn one point for every litre of fuel pumped at Engen garages , with double-up points on Fridays . <p> Three strategic investments , valued at a total of R320-million , have boosted the group 's dominance in the health and beauty retail sector . It now owns the Sorbet beauty salon franchise chain of 194 outlets , M-Kem -- a long-established 24-hour pharmacy in the Western Cape -- and 180 Degrees , a pharmacy software development company . <p> The group has allocated record capital expenditure of R930-million to expand its store network , refurbish existing stores and pharmacies , and integrate the supply chain , as Clicks opened its 850th store and 700th pharmacy during the year . <p> The group has also expanded its total income margin by 150 basis points to 29.2% due to the stronger growth of retail relative to distribution . <p> Cash generated by operations totalled R5.9-billion . <p> The group says it expects trading conditions to remain extremely constrained in the new financial year . <p> " The business model remains resilient and defensive and the group has proven its ability to adapt to changing market dynamics . " <p> Clicks plans to open between 40 and 50 new stores and 40 to 50 pharmacies , with a capex of R880-million for the 2024 financial year . This includes R487-million for new stores and pharmacies and the refurbishment of 50 to 60 stores . R393-million will be invested in supply chain , technology and infrastructure . <p> The board of directors has approved a final gross ordinary dividend for the period ended 31 August 2023 of 494 cents per share ( up from 457c in 2022 . DM <h> Tuesday , 24 October 2023 <p> Famous Brands is bullish about its prospects in Africa and the Middle East <p> Famous Brands , the owner of Wimpy , Steers and Turn ' n Tender , is looking beyond South Africa 's borders to expand operations despite slow business growth back home , it announced in its interim results for the six months ended 31 August . <p> On Tuesday , the group said the South African restaurant industry was under strain due to rising costs , alternative power costs and reduced consumer spending , with customers facing several challenges including political uncertainty , water shortages , the electricity crisis , high food and fuel prices and rising interest rates . <p> Consumers are spending more time in shopping centres , especially during the cold winter experienced in Johannesburg and Cape Town . Hospital foot counts are also up , which supports Famous Brands restaurants in those locations . <p> Consumers are still spending at its restaurants , which Famous Brands says offer " affordable indulgent moments as a reprieve from their daily challenges . However , with tighter budgets , consumers do not eat out as lavishly as before " . <p> Famous Brands has 2,522 restaurants in South Africa ; 311 in 17 countries throughout Africa and the Middle East ; and 65 in the United Kingdom . <p> It said while the supply chain challenges and inflationary pressures related to the Russia/Ukraine war have eased somewhat , food inflation remains elevated due to the costs of rolling blackouts . It imports its hake and coffee , which have become more expensive due to the weak rand , while eggs , chicken , pork and vegetable prices have risen sharply . <p> The potato harvest has been poor this year due to unusual weather patterns , which has led to a sharp increase in the cost of frozen chips . <p> Consumer behaviour is also changing due to the weak economy . Customers are spending less at restaurants and opting for takeaways , deliveries and drive-throughs . They 're also seeking out value deals , discounts , smaller and cheaper meals , competitions and loyalty programmes . <p> Rolling blackouts also increased significantly during the period under review which affected prime trading hours , although about 91.3% of its Leading Brands portfolio had alternative power solutions and saw an 18% increase in sales during blackout periods . <p> From March 2023 , the group helped franchisees with a 1% reduction ( 0.5% royalty and 0.5% marketing ) on their franchise fees for sales generated while trading during rolling blackouts , which , at the end of August 2023 , amounted to total financial relief of more than R11.6-million . <p> The 2023/24 insurance renewal cycle , which fell within the review period , saw a 470% increase in premiums ( to R22-million ) for property damages and business interruption insurance , due to higher reinsurance costs as food facilities are deemed greater risks than before . <h> Performance <p> In the review period , Famous Brands saw some organic growth , but earnings are lower , mostly due to the Gourmet Burger Kitchen liquidation dividends of R75-million received in the first half of 2023 . <p> Excluding the liquidation dividends , basic earnings per share is 8% up on the prior period . <p> Total revenue for the review period was up by 10% to R3.94-billion , with a 6% reduction in operating profit and a 7% decline in headline earnings per share ( a profit measure stripping out some items ) . <p> The group said it was bullish about its prospects in Africa and the Middle East ( AME ) region , which saw sales increasing by 15.3% . Several African markets have abnormally high inflation due to political instability , poor economic policies and external shocks . <p> " Here , we will cautiously enter three new markets ( C ? te d'Ivoire , Egypt and the Democratic Republic of Congo ) with the Debonairs Pizza and Steers brands . <p> " We will split the management structure for AME so that the Southern African Development Countries are managed by the Leading Brands team in South Africa . The rest of Africa , where we have a smaller footprint , will be managed out of the Middle East . <p> " We believe this will refocus our attention on those countries where we need to invest and build our brands and networks . " <p> The board has declared an interim dividend of 138c per share , which it will pay out on 18 December 2023 . DM <h> Wednesday , 18 October 2023 <p> It 's back to basics for Pick n Pay , says CEO Sean Summers , as the retailer returns to the drawing board after posting dismal results reflecting a 97.5% loss in trading profit for the half-year to 27 August , reaching just R31.8-million compared with the R1.25-billion it achieved in 2022 . <p> In reporting its first interim loss , Pick n Pay described its results as " disappointing " . That is an understatement ; the retail giant has declared a pro forma loss before tax and capital items of R837.2-million . <h> Reality check <p> Trading profit would have been R597-million , not the R31.8-million declared , had it not been for the R565-million of incremental abnormal costs ( R190-million spent on net incremental energy costs ; R116-million on duplication of supply chain costs from the Longmeadow/Eastport DC handover ; and R259-million spent on retrenchments ) . <p> Gross profit margin was down by 0.9% to 18.5% . <p> Yet again , the cost of keeping stores powered ate a chunk out of its profits : it spent R396-million on diesel to run generators and keep stores open , which not only affected its expense growth but also limited its ability to run promotions . <p> Value-added services income grew 13.5% , as the group maximises opportunities in banking and financial services , and mobile . <p> Its Rest of Africa segment contributed R2.7-billion in sales , up 14.4% year on year ( or 12.2% in constant currency ) . <p> " Project Future " saved the group R334-million in the first half of the year , with R124-million in energy savings . <p> During the period under review , the group opened its new Eastport distribution centre and sold Longmeadow . It also modernised its franchise model to increase its franchisee loyalty rate and acquired Tomis , a state-of-the-art abattoir and meat packaging business , which will help boost the quality of its fresh meat offering . <h> ' Potent cocktail ' <p> Pick n Pay chairman , Gareth Ackerman , said the six months from March to August were among the most difficult consumers have had to endure in the recent past . Rolling blackouts reached the worst level since they were first introduced in 2008 , which has had a disproportionately negative impact on the retail industry . <p> " Food inflation topped 14% in March , its highest level in 14 years , and the price of fuel has risen by about 20% so far this year . Interest rates also reached their highest point since 2009 , thanks to 10 successive increases since the end of 2021 . <p> " All of this has proved to be a potent cocktail that has once again put consumers under extreme financial pressure . " <p> Ackerman said although they were proud of their efforts to support consumers with lower prices and keep internal price inflation well below CPI Food , there was no avoiding the fact that the group 's result was extremely disappointing . <p> " There are , however , some encouraging signs and the Pick n Pay story currently is really one of two main operating brands -- Boxer and brand Pick n Pay . <p> " Boxer delivered double-digit South African sales growth and is the main growth driver for the group at the moment . " <p> The group has 454 Boxer stores countrywide and plans to expand the low-cost offering . <p> Pick n Pay Clothing 's sales at standalone stores also grew in double digits , leading the market , which Ackerman says proves that its strategy is working . <p> The announcement sent the share price plummeting by almost 15% , after stating that it expects to report a half-year loss of between 79.31 and 98.18 cents per share , which is down between 184% and 204% year on year . <h> Bring on Summers <p> Summers , back with Pick n Pay after a 16-year absence , reassured shareholders and staff , saying the results are " not the end of the world " . <p> " It 's a huge privilege and an honour to be back in the place that I love , " said Summers . <p> " It 's equally distressing for me as it is for all of us in this room ( to see these results ) . My focus is to return the core supermarkets business to growth and profitability , and maintain the growth of other key parts of the business . " <p> He said Pick n Pay is an exceptional company and a much-loved brand with a rich heritage . <p> " We have a lot of work to do , and I have received strong support from our people . They want to see Pick n Pay succeed , and my task will be to see that we work hard on the basics and improve significantly both on customer service and on execution in our supermarkets . " <p> He said their buying capabilities need work , and they will be engaging closely with their suppliers as a matter of urgency . <p> " Importantly , we need to rekindle customers ' affection for the Pick n Pay brand and energise our staff to focus their efforts on the critical road ahead . " DM <h> Thursday , 28 September 2023 <p> Capitec increases market share , grows customer base to 21.1m <p> Capitec saw headline earnings growth move up 9% to R4.7-billion for the six months to end August , while increasing its client numbers to a whopping 21.1 million . <p> Gerrie Fourie , chief executive at Capitec , says the bank has grown its non-interest income streams through product diversification and digitalisation , insurance licensing and broadening payment services . <p> The digital bank 's latest results reveal that the number of clients embracing digital transactions has grown 8% to 11.7 million , while the number of app users climbed to 10.2 million , making Capitec the biggest digital bank in South Africa . <p> Fourie says this surge has propelled digital transaction volumes by 21% to 957 million , with the banking app claiming 83% of these transactions . Income from Send Cash payments and voucher sales soared 56% to R1.1-billion . DM <h> Thursday , 21 September 2023 <p> Astral Foods was a top loser on the JSE on Thursday after a trading update sent its share price crashing by 13.1% in early morning trade , regaining just 2.12% at the close . <p> The leading chicken producer had previously warned that rolling blackouts and water issues were expected to have a significant impact on their production for the remainder of the financial year ending 30 September 2023 , as the outages increased extra costs to power diesel generators , cutting back on poultry production due to a backlog in the slaughter programme , higher feed costs ( to maintain older broilers ) , and overtime costs . <p> For the six months ended 31 March 2023 , these costs came to R741-million , and for the remainder of the financial year , they are forecast to rise to an additional R919-million . <p> Astral said operating diesel generators was now an embedded expense burden that was costing it R45-million every month . <p> Rolling blackouts , including capital costs of R200-million , are expected to cost the group about R1.9-billion this year , which is the biggest reason for the sharp decline in its results . <p> The slaughtering backlog , which was caused by the blackouts , was cleared at the end of June 2023 , increasing broiler efficiencies on targeted age , live weight and feed consumption . <p> In the Sens statement , Astral said it had been forced to discount its big birds at a time when chicken consumption had slowed over winter . <p> The selling prices for chicken were not sufficient to recover input costs . <p> However , other factors have weighed down its financial performance during the second-half period -- the biggest among them is causing its chickens to " die like flies " , Astral CEO Chris Schutte confirmed during an investor call . <p> Astral and other producers have been forced to cull their broiler breeding stock to control the disease , incurring additional costs beyond the birds , including measures taken for their safe disposal and implementation of biosecurity measures . <p> This is the worst bird flu outbreak the country has seen : it has already cost producers about R220-million . <p> Astral expects this year 's profits to be down by about 165% on last year 's . <p> Schutte told investors that the poultry industry was being " ravaged " by the current outbreak , which started in Paarl in the Western Cape before mutating into a different strain by June , which is now dominant in Gauteng , the Free State and Mpumalanga . <p> " Despite being a well-managed and plucky bird , Astral Foods has had to endure factors way beyond its control in 2023 . These will come to peck it badly , especially in its second half . It 's tough currently in the domestic poultry sector but Astral Foods and its management team box on as best they can . " <p> He said he has had a " buy " position on Astral for some months , with a target of 21,500 cents . <p> " I 'm not changing that . However , the market needs to prepare itself -- if my scenario is correct -- for a pretty nasty pre-closed update on 21 September . " DM <h> Monday , 18 September 2023 <p> Oceana expects energy , raw material costs and a weaker rand to take their toll <p> Oceana 's Lucky Star brand might have sold 8% more cans over the past 11 months , but even with an increase in selling prices and a reduction in freight costs , the past five months have been less stellar as sales volumes declined by 5% due to above-inflation increases in energy , the cost of tin cans and tomato paste , and the impact of the weaker rand against the US dollar on the cost of imported raw materials . <p> On the local front , canning production volumes in South Africa were up by 15% to 4.7 million cartons ( compared with 4.1 million cartons in August 2022 ) . The company expects strong demand going forward , driven by continued demand for affordable and shelf-stable protein . <p> In its SA fishmeal and fish oil business , strong fish oil pricing and the weaker rand resulted in a 32% increase in average rand selling prices for the 11-month period . Sales volumes of 21,246 tonnes were also 8% lower than the prior year-to-date period and a 24% drop in production volumes due to adverse weather conditions impeding fishing . <p> In the US , above-average water temperatures in the Gulf of Mexico and abnormally lower water levels in the Mississippi caused a 5% decline in catches . The 28-week season ends on 31 October . Fish oil yields were also down by almost 8% , due to the landed fish 's lower fat content . <p> Fishmeal and fish oil sales were up by 49% and 27% , respectively , but the cancellation of Peru 's main anchovy fishing season ( related to the effect of El Ni ? o on fish stocks ) hurt fishmeal and fish oil production levels from that supplier in the period , which drove up sales prices by 9% and US-dollar fish oil sales prices by 38% . <p> Closer to home , horse mackerel sales volumes were in line with the prior period as improved catch rates and vessel utilisation in Namibia were offset by poorer catch rates and vessel utilisation in SA . But hake sales volumes were down by 38% due to fewer sea days and lower catch rates.Selling the group 's interest in its cold storage business on 4 April realised a profit of R370-million after tax , which was used to settle debt in South Africa . <p> The group 's results are expected to be released on Monday , 27 November . DM <p> FirstRand Bank posted an 11% rise in profits for the year to the end of June , with 60% of its profits coming from First National Bank ( FNB ) , the star in the stable . The overall credit performance for the year was in line with expectations with a credit loss ratio of 78 basis points . <p> " Right now , we are just touching the bottom of the highway . Our cost to credit over a 10- to 15-year period should be on that highway . We think in the next 12 months , we are going to get into the middle point of that highway , and that would be around 95 basis points , " he told Daily Maverick . <p> Pullinger says the low credit loss ratio is a direct outcome of the group 's origination strategy from mid-2020 to late 2021 , as the country emerged from the Covid-19 pandemic . <p> " The decision to tilt origination to low- and medium-risk customers has resulted in a credit loss ratio below the group 's range , despite a higher interest rate and inflation cycle than initially anticipated . Over the past 18 months , the group has gradually lifted origination back to pre-pandemic appetite , " he says . <h> TymeBank hot on the heels of FirstRand performer FNB <p> The star in the stable , FNB delivered on its strategy of gaining more customers and increasing interactions with existing customers , growing its client base by 5% to 11.5 million . However , this is no time to rest on its laurels . African Rainbow Capital , which is the majority shareholder in digital challenger TymeBank , revealed this week that the bank had grown its customer base to 7.7 million . An impressive feat , given that TymeBank launched just over four years ago . <p> The newcomer has been aggressive in its strategy , offering customers zero bank fees andhigher interest rates . In May , Tymebank reported that it was signing up as many as 200,000 customers a month . <p> FNB 's wealth and investment management accounts increased by 5% to 629,000 and it has the leading market share of household deposits in South Africa . FNB Life has paid out R644-million in pre-emptive life claims to customers since its launch . This refers to its process of proactively paying out life insurance claims by routinely checking the National Population Registry for deceased policyholders . DM <h> Wednesday , 13 September 2023 <h> Momentum Metropolitan shareholders might be smiling , but the market was unimpressed <p> Momentum Metropolitan shareholders will realise a final dividend of R1.20 a share , up 20% on last year and in addition to a share buyback scheme . <p> At an average price of R17.87 per share , the shares were purchased at a 43% discount to the 31 December 2022 embedded value per share of R31.39 . <p> The board approved a further R500-million for the buyback programme of the group 's ordinary shares <p> Risto Ketola , group finance director , says the company 's dividend policy remains to declare dividends within a payout range of between 33% and 50% of normalised headline earnings . <p> " Our next set of results will be prepared according to the new accounting standard ( IFRS 17 ) , which will more closely align the economic and insurance outcomes with the accounting treatment , " he says . <p> Operating profit climbed 31% to R4.4-billion on the back of improved mortality experience post-Covid and a positive investment variance of R1.1-billion , compared with R353-million in the previous financial year . <p> However , lower new business volumes , higher distribution costs and a general change in new business mix towards lower-margin products across many of the business units saw the value of new business fall 4% to R600-million . <p> " Disposable income will remain under pressure due to rising interest rates and high inflation , as well as the lack of economic growth in South Africa . This is likely to put ongoing affordability pressure on new business volumes , particularly on long-term savings and protection business . <p> " Investment business is negatively affected by other factors such as low confidence in SA asset classes and by consumer preference to maintain their assets in liquid low-risk investments . New business volumes and profitability are receiving significant management attention , " the company said . <p> Incoming group chief executive Jeanette Marais noted the insurer paid out more than R38-billion in claims over the year to end June 2023 , forked out R7-billion in staff remuneration , and invested more than R280-million on training and development . <p> The market seemed unimpressed , with the share sliding 1.6% from its close of R20.14 on Tuesday to close at R19.82 on Wednesday . DM <h> Monday , 11 September 2023 <h> Fun and games at Sun International after group posts stellar interim results <p> Sun City has performed exceptionally well , with a 25.5% hike in income . <p> Sun International 's online betting and gambling platform , SunBet , is coining it . The hospitality group posted its interim results on Monday , revealing that SunBet generated record income over the past six months , with an increase of just over 138% on the first half of last year . <p> SunBet 's adjusted Ebitda -- a profit measure -- increased from R14-million during the prior comparative period to R90-million in the review period , which is a 542.9% increase . <p> It has grown unique active players by 702.8% , first-time depositors by 469.2% and deposits by 216.2% . <p> Gaming makes up 78% of the group 's income , which is also up by 6.6% despite the difficult economic climate , increased competition and rolling blackouts . <p> Sun International 's casino income was up by 3.2% , although Sun Slots was down slightly from the prior period due to the power crisis . <p> Group income for the first six months was up 11.7% to R5.8-billion , with adjusted headline earnings -- a measure of how current performance stacks up to previous years ' performance -- up by 10.1% to R482-million . <p> Sun City has performed exceptionally well , with a 25.5% hike in income . <p> The group has declared an interim cash dividend of 148 cents per share -- up by 68.2% to R388-million . <p> Income from urban casinos was up 4.2% . <p> Sun International CEO Anthony Leeming said SunBet offers the group exciting growth potential : the business model is self-funding and capex-light . <p> " We have made significant improvements to registrations , customer deposits and withdrawal processes as well as an overhaul of the customer contact centre . <p> " Our customers are now able to interact with us seamlessly and we are well positioned operationally for higher volumes of business . " -- Georgina Crouth/DM <p> This corporate portal will be updated continually as company results are announced . <h> Comments <p> These financial and trading reports are pretty good .... but lots of businesses not reported upon .... <p> " termid " : 341015 , " name " : " DM168 " , " slug " : " dm1 ... Africa " , " slug " : " south-africa " , " termgroup " : 0 , ... Maverick is an independent online news publication and weekly print newspaper in South Africa. rnrnIt is known for breaking some of the defining stories of South Africa in the past decade , including the Marikana Massacre , in which the South African Police Service killed 34 miners in August 2012. rnrnIt also investigated the Gupta Leaks , which won the 2019 Global Shining Light Award. rnrnThat investigation was credited with exposing the Indian-born Gupta family and former President Jacob Zuma for their role in the systemic political corruption referred to as state capture. rnrnIn 2018 , co-founder and editor-in-chief Branislav u2018Brankou2019 Brkic was awarded the countryu2019s prestigious Nat Nakasa Award , recognised for initiating the investigative collaboration after receiving the hard drive that included the email tranche. rnrnIn 2021 , co-founder and CEO Styli Charalambous also received the award. rnrnDaily Maverick covers the latest political and news developments in South Africa with breaking news updates , analysis , opinions and more . " , " parent " : 0 , " count " : 47369 , " filter " : " raw ... Jockey Richard Fourie pushed his body to ' breaking point ' to set new SA horse racing standard <p> Jockey Richard Fourie recently made South African horse racing history . He is hoping to add to his achievements . <p> Richard Fourie , once teased about his size , has become a record-breaking jockey in the South African horse racing scene . <p> Fourie made history by riding over 335 winners in a single season , surpassing the legendary Anthony Delpech 's previous record . <p> His strategic approach and partnership with agent Ken Nicol were key to his success in achieving this milestone . <p> Despite the financial rewards , Fourie values the personal achievement and historical significance of his record-breaking season . <p> Richard Fourie on his way to victory on Al Muthana in the Gold Challenge . ( Photo : Chase Liebenberg ) <p> When he was younger , Richard Fourie 's elder brother used to joke that , because of his petit physique , he was destined to be a professional horse rider . Little did he know that he was planting a seed in his little brother 's mind . <p> Decades later Fourie is not only a jockey , but a recent achievement has also ensured that he will be remembered as one of the greatest South Africans to mount a horse for sport . <p> In the ongoing 2023/24 South African horse racing season , Fourie has made his mark as the first jockey to ride more than 335 winners in a single campaign . This milestone was reached on 8 June . Fourie has since added to his record ( now 346 ) and has a few more weeks to continue plumping it up . <p> Through his exhilarating form this season , Fourie has broken a long-standing record that had appeared infallible . Legendary South African jockey Anthony Delpech rode an astonishing 334 winners during the 1998/99 season , snapping a record previously held by Piere Strydom . <p> Up stepped Fourie to make both these memorable figures of South African horse racing look like shirkers . In the process he also clinched the SA Jockeys Championship title for the first time . He finished second last season , behind Keagan De Melo . <h> Strategic onslaught <p> " We had a gameplan to try and achieve 300 winners , so that we can win the championship for the first time . It was quite ironic that I won my record-breaking race on a horse owned , in partnership , by the legendary golfer Gary Player , which is called Double Grand Slam , " Fourie told Daily Maverick . <p> For his efforts , Fourie walked away with R1-million courtesy of Hollywoodbets . The betting company had announced the financial reward at the beginning of the season to reignite public interest in the sport -- as well as to motivate the riders . <p> " It was never about the money . Like I said , when we started the season , our plan was to get 300 winners . I felt that was a realistic target at the time . To reach your personal goals outweighs any sort of financial reward . Then to break the South African record ? That feeling alone is rewarding . To become part of history . That 's the biggest joy . The financial prize is just the cherry on the cake , " said Fourie . <p> Delpech was full of praise for the man who eclipsed his impressive record : " I know how tough it is to travel and keep one 's shoulder to the wheel for so many months . It 's absolutely exhausting mentally and physically . Richard has made us all proud and shown himself to be a champion of enormous talent and mental strength . I am thrilled for him , and all of those that supported him . " <p> Delpech , who retired in 2019 after a career-ending injury , was one of Fourie 's biggest supporters during this historic season . <p> Carletonville-born Fourie said the respec ? ted rider this season had shared a number of tips with him on how to truly tap into your potential as a jockey . <p> Richard Fourie celebrates another win . ( Photo : Chase Liebenberg ) <p> " He was so helpful . He gave me insight on how to travel . How to nourish your body , " Fourie said . " He told me that you have to push your body to almost breaking point . <p> " The information and guidance that he gave me throughout the season ... I could not be more grateful . The hints and the ideas on how to stay positive ... He was paramount . " <p> Fourie said : " It 's a great honour holding the new South African race record and knowing that he helped me achieve this major goal in racing history . " <h> Priceless Nicol <p> Another important figure to Fourie managing this impressive season is agent Ken Nicol . The self-set target of 300 seemed far-fetched early in the season , especially since Fourie had a mere 32 winners after the first two months of the campaign . <p> He credits Nicol with ensuring that his record-breaking feat was a possibility by always picking the perfect horses for him to ride . The pair has been working in tandem for three years , during which they have built a good relationship and good business etiquette . His success is mainly because Nicol " is very good at what he does . And I 'm half-decent at what I do , " Fourie said . <p> He was introduced to horse racing by his friend Corrie Jooste , and joined the South African Jockey Academy in KwaZulu-Natal at the age of 16 . There he was trained by Vincent Curtis . Though Curtis is retired , he still follows Fourie 's career avidly . <p> " If I ride a bad race , he 's the first one to give me a good bollocking , " said Fourie . <h> Trade secrets <p> Sharing other secrets about how he managed to break the record , Fourie said it was essential to know how to manage your schedule . " The most important thing is rest . You race eight or nine times a day . Then you get on a plane , where you try to get as much sleep as possible . Because you 're not going home . You 're going to the next city , " said the jockey , who has three daughters . <p> " We 're just city-hopping most of the time . So , you try to rest wherever you can . Eight hours of sleep a day is imperative . Even if it 's broken sleep . Then , of course , staying mentally sharp and physically fit is also important , " he added . <p> He is based in Durbanville in Cape Town . He is looking forward to the Durban July , which he has won three times , including consecutive victories in 2019 and 2020 . His first victory came 10 years ago , in 2014 , when he rode Legislate to success . <p> This time he will mount Future Swing , in the hope of adding to his haul of wins in South Africa 's most prestigious horse ? racing event . <p> " I 'm very excited . It 's South Africa 's biggest race and showcases our best thoroughbreds . I 've done a few and I 've won three Durban Julys . It 's every young jockey 's dream to win that race , " Fourie said . <p> " Nothing is bigger than that . Your first win is your biggest one ever . You 'll never feel that feeling in your life ever again . Cloud nine is not even the right phrase . " <p> By the time he arrives at the Durban July , Fourie may be well over 400 winners at the rate he is going . He will approach the race as just another event to add to his already remarkable campaign , which officially ends on 31 July . DM <p> This story first appeared in our weekly Daily Maverick 168 newspaper , which is available countrywide for R35 . <h> Comments <p> " termid " : 341015 , " name " : " DM168 " , " slug " : " dm1 ... Africa " , " slug " : " south-africa " , " termgroup " : 0 , ... Maverick is an independent online news publication and weekly print newspaper in South Africa. rnrnIt is known for breaking some of the defining stories of South Africa in the past decade , including the Marikana Massacre , in which the South African Police Service killed 34 miners in August 2012. rnrnIt also investigated the Gupta Leaks , which won the 2019 Global Shining Light Award. rnrnThat investigation was credited with exposing the Indian-born Gupta family and former President Jacob Zuma for their role in the systemic political corruption referred to as state capture. rnrnIn 2018 , co-founder and editor-in-chief Branislav u2018Brankou2019 Brkic was awarded the countryu2019s prestigious Nat Nakasa Award , recognised for initiating the investigative collaboration after receiving the hard drive that included the email tranche. rnrnIn 2021 , co-founder and CEO Styli Charalambous also received the award. rnrnDaily Maverick covers the latest political and news developments in South Africa with breaking news updates , analysis , opinions and more . " , " parent " : 0 , " count " : 47369 , " filter " : " raw ... Next mission for the Boks -- dominate between World Cups <p> The Springboks have won 13 ( 87% ) of their past 15 Tests , including Rugby World Cup 2023 along the way . Can they stay at that level now ? <p> Competition tougher with rise of Ireland , France , but Boks continue to evolve and improve <p> Captain Siya Kolisi celebrates with the Webb Ellis Cup following his side 's World Cup victory over New Zealand at Stade de France in Paris on 28 October 2023 . It was the fourth time the Boks won the cup . ( Photo : Dan Mullan / Getty Images ) <p> The Boks have won the past two Rugby World Cups , which has given the country so much joy and hope that it might seem greedy to demand more of them . <p> If you had asked just about any South African in the minutes leading up to last year 's final in Saint-Denis if they would have traded every win between the World Cups to guarantee victory at the tournament , the answer would have been " yes " . <p> But with the benefit of hindsight and distance from those emotionally charged weeks , is it time to pose a different question ? Is the next stage of the Boks ' evolution not only to win a third consecutive Rugby World Cup ( RWC ) title in Australia in 2027 ( that goal is a constant ) , but also to become the most dominant team between World Cups ? <p> It 's easy to dismiss this idea in the heat of a World Cup campaign , when focus is narrowed to a single objective for the right to be called world champions . <p> As South Africans we know how great that feeling is , and how much it means to the country . Ireland , who were the best team in the two years leading up to RWC 2023 , and France , the next-best team in that period , would probably have traded a bunch of wins to lift the Webb Ellis Cup . <p> And that 's understandable when your country has never won it . But the Boks have four world titles . Surely their next objective must be to raise their winning percentage to somewhere around the 80% mark and dominate the Rugby Championship as well as to win on the road more often . <p> They last won the Championship in 2019 , when , as a World Cup year , it was truncated . <p> You have to go back to 2009 , which was before Argentina joined the southern hemisphere showpiece , for the last time the Boks won a full version of the Rugby Championship ( then called the Tri-Nations ) . <p> Since the inception of the Rugby Championship/Tri-Nations in 1996 , the Boks have won four World Cups -- one more than New Zealand and two more than Australia . But they have only won the Championship four times in 28 years . The All Blacks have won it 20 times and the Wallabies four . <p> Both teams line up for the national anthems before the World Cup final between New Zealand and South Africa in Paris on 28 October 2023 . ( Photo : Dan Mullan / Getty Images ) <h> Emulate the All Blacks <p> The All Blacks of 2010-2019 were perhaps the most dominant sports team of all time -- in any discipline . <p> From the start of the 2010 international season to the quarterfinal of RWC 2019 when they beat Ireland 46-14 , the All Blacks played 131 Tests and won 115 , with 12 defeats and four draws for an 88% winning ratio . <p> They were , on average , 20 points better than every team , every time they played . It was staggering . <p> Of course , it might be asking too much for the Boks to achieve that sensational level of dominance because things have changed . <p> Notably , the rise of Ireland and France means that the competition is harder than it was between 2010 and 2019 . <p> The Boks are better too , and Wales , in a slump now , have also been better . Scotland have improved while England always r ? emain a threat , and even Argentina are better , as recent wins over the All Blacks show . <h> Unreasonable ? <p> Despite this , though , is it unreasonable to see the Boks raise that winning percentage to somewhere around 80% , at least for this period until RWC 2027 ? <p> Coach Rassie Erasmus does think it 's an unreasonable demand , especially against the Springboks ' historical 67% winning percentage . " I 'm not sure that 's realistic , to be honest with you , " Erasmus told this writer when the question was asked earlier this year . <p> " I 'm not sure that building a squad , trialling players , giving players opportunities , improving on squad depth and transforming the team -- I do n't mean in terms of black and white players , I mean transform in the sense of trying to innovate and be cutting edge , which means you can lose a few Tests . <p> " We tried things between 2021 and 2023 and lost a few matches , but we wanted to find answers to problems . It would be wonderful if we could win 80% or so of matches between World Cups . But I suppose you have to ask , do you want your answers by the time you get to RWC or not ? Covid messed us around in 2020 but we start with a clean slate this year . <p> " I would rather win the World Cup again than sit at an 88 or 82% winning ratio , but not win the World Cup . I 'm not saying I do n't want to get the winning percentage up , of course I do , but to win the World Cup we will have to take some chances with youngsters in building for 2027 . " <p> There is no faulting Erasmus 's logic . He and former head coach Jacques Nienaber took over an ailing team in 2018 and turned them into World Cup winners in 18 months by stripping the game back and building on set-piece strength , defence and clever tactical kicking . <p> The Boks added layers to that between 2021 and 2023 , although losing the 2020 season to Covid was a setback . <p> The attacking game has grown immensely while the depth of quality players has deepened to the point where there are almost three world-class players in every position . <p> Erasmus , naturally , did n't want to put undue pressure on himself and the squad by saying they want to up their winning percentage and be victorious in the Rugby Championship more than once in a four-year cycle , but the groundwork has been laid . <p> In fact , the Boks are already on track to be the dominant force . They have won 13 of their past 15 Tests ( before this weekend 's clash against Wales at Twickenham ) , which is an 87% winning ratio . <p> Erasmus , canny as ever , might be playing down the Boks ' ideas of dominance , while planning to do just that . The stats show they are already in that stratosphere . <p> They just have to stay there now . DM <p> This story first appeared in our weekly Daily Maverick 168 newspaper , which is available countrywide for R35 . <h> Comments <p> " termid " : 341015 , " name " : " DM168 " , " slug " : " dm1 ... Africa " , " slug " : " south-africa " , " termgroup " : 0 , ... Maverick is an independent online news publication and weekly print newspaper in South Africa. rnrnIt is known for breaking some of the defining stories of South Africa in the past decade , including the Marikana Massacre , in which the South African Police Service killed 34 miners in August 2012. rnrnIt also investigated the Gupta Leaks , which won the 2019 Global Shining Light Award. rnrnThat investigation was credited with exposing the Indian-born Gupta family and former President Jacob Zuma for their role in the systemic political corruption referred to as state capture. rnrnIn 2018 , co-founder and editor-in-chief Branislav u2018Brankou2019 Brkic was awarded the countryu2019s prestigious Nat Nakasa Award , recognised for initiating the investigative collaboration after receiving the hard drive that included the email tranche. rnrnIn 2021 , co-founder and CEO Styli Charalambous also received the award. rnrnDaily Maverick covers the latest political and news developments in South Africa with breaking news updates , analysis , opinions and more . " , " parent " : 0 , " count " : 47369 , " filter " : " raw ... Burning Planet " , " slug " : " our-burning-planet " , " termgro ... A total of 20 000 jobs over a decade . This is one of the goals of a R105-billion ammonia plant at Coega in Nelson Mandela Bay that will be powered by its own cluster of wind and solar farms -- the biggest in Africa . <p> At a recent manufacturing showcase in Gqeberha , organised by the Nelson Mandela Bay Business Chamber , Hive Energy reaffirmed its plans for a huge green ammonia plant to be built at Coega . The total investment now stands at R105-billion . <p> The plans for the investment were initially announced in December 2021 . <p> Although both green hydrogen and green ammonia are sustainable alternatives to fossil fuels , green ammonia is produced in ? liquid form while green hydrogen is a gas . <p> Green ammonia requires less processing than green hydrogen before it can be used as fuel ; however , the process can produce more waste products . It is also more expensive to produce than green hydrogen . <h> Green ammonia plant <p> The project , one of the largest inward investments into South Africa , aims to establish one of the world 's biggest green ammonia plants , producing more than a million tons a year for export to the Far East and Europe when the first phase comes online in 2029 . <p> The plant will have its own renewable power supply of 3,700MW generated by wind and solar energy -- representing the largest clusters of photovoltaic ( PV ) farms and wind assets under single ownership in Africa . <p> The investment presents Nelson Mandela Bay with a major opportunity for green industrial development and diversification through downstream opportunities . <p> " The spin-offs in job creation , renewable energy generation and desalinated water to be fed into the local grid , and up- and downstream economic opportunities , are substantial , " the business chamber says . <p> Thulani Gcabashe , chairperson of Hive Hydrogen , said the site for the plant was at the Coega deep-water harbour , which has ? liquid bulk berth capacity , liquid bulk storage , large-scale on-site power generation , unlimited water availability and large- ? capacity grid connections for power wheeling , as well as for semi-skilled and skilled local contractors and workers . <p> " We also have local land secured close to the plant for the establishment of an additional solar farm with a capacity of up to 600MW . Once complete , the solar farm will be one of the largest PV parks in South Africa . Our goal is to pave the way for environmental best practice in South Africa with this development , " he added . <p> The investment aims to create about 20,000 direct and indirect jobs in Nelson Mandela Bay over a decade . <p> In February , Hive Hydrogen signed an agreement to implement two wind power projects in the Western Cape , totalling 372MW of wind energy to support the Coega green ammonia plant . <p> To make sure Nelson Mandela Bay benefits from these developments , said the business chamber 's CEO , Denise van Huyssteen , the organisation had launched a think-tank to reinvent the local economy . <p> " Our Bay is the potential anchor of a myriad downstream opportunities such as the manufacturing of electrolysers ( to make hydrogen ) , small-scale hydrogen combustion engines , fuel cells , medical devices and wind turbines , and the production not only of green energy but also the equipment for generating that energy , " Van Huyssteen said . <p> Green hydrogen is hydrogen that is produced by electrolysis of water , where the electricity used in production comes from renewable sources such as solar and wind power . ( Photo : iStock ) <p> The co-lead of the chamber 's think-tank , Quintin Uren , said that to reinvent the economy and remain competitive , the chamber had set its sights on diversifying local manufacturing industries , capitalising on global gaps and shifting the focus from automobile to " altermotive " mobility . <p> He said the chamber wanted to use climate change as an opportunity , and it wanted local industries to become increasingly flexible and resilient . <p> It was also looking at ways of retaining and growing engineering talent and leveraging natural resources . DM <h> Green hydrogen : pros and cons for the Eastern Cape <p> Nelson Mandela University announced in April that it was part of a consortium that had won a British government grant to conduct an innovative feasibility study to explore production of green hydrogen in the Eastern Cape and its export to global markets , including Britain , Europe and Japan . <p> The grant , by UK PACT ( Partnering for Accelerated Climate Transitions ) , will fund the consortium 's work with the Industrial Development Corporation of South Africa in support of South Africa 's wider development and energy transition plans . <p> The feasibility study will evaluate the potential for establishing green hydrogen production facilities in the Eastern Cape and for developing export infrastructure , including port facilities and transport networks . <p> However , during a discussion on 18 June , sustainable development researcher and activist Professor Janet Cherry raised concerns . She said green hydrogen facilities would bring more industrial development to established hubs such as the ports at Nelson Mandela Bay and Buffalo City . But " these wo n't benefit the rural communities . We have some hard choices to make here . " <p> She added : " There should be no more ? fossil-fuel-based energy investments . " <p> The Supreme Court of Appeal recently dismissed an appeal by Shell that would have enabled renewed plans to explore for gas along the Eastern Cape 's Wild Coast . <p> Cherry said a green hydrogen plant in South Africa would consume a lot of energy in its production process , and it would draw on the Eskom grid because it could not get enough from sustainable energy sources that were currently available . <p> It would also need a lot of water , and there were concerns about the impact that desalination of seawater would have on the ocean as brine and chemicals would be released back into the sea . <p> She said green hydrogen would be a beneficial development if it could reinvent public transport and freight transport . <p> However , Cherry said she did not see it as a way to grow the economy . The Global North would make money from it while South Africa would not really benefit from a reduction in carbon emissions . <p> As such facilities were established in special economic zones , she added , it was unlikely that there would be a tax benefit to the country either . <p> But this picture could change if hydrogen were used in local industries . <p> She warned that if desalination harmed the ocean 's ecology , fishing communities would suffer . <h> What is green hydrogen ? <p> Hydrogen ( H2 ) is a chemical element with an atom that consists of only one proton and one electron . At room temperature and atmospheric pressure , it is a colourless , odourless , tasteless , non-toxic and highly combustible gas . <p> Hydrogen is used as a raw material and fuel in a number of industrial processes . It burns without emitting greenhouse gases . Water is the only product . <p> Green hydrogen is hydrogen that is produced by electrolysis of water , where the electricity used in production comes from renewable sources such as solar and wind power . Green hydrogen can possibly replace fossil fuels with a zero-emissions fuel . Although hydrogen is a colourless gas , it is labelled with different colours to distinguish between different production processes . The process does not produce any carbon dioxide . How ? ever , it is expensive to produce . <h> Blue hydrogen <p> Also known as low-carbon hydrogen , this is created by combining natural gas and heated water in the form of steam . The output is hydrogen , but carbon dioxide is produced as a byproduct . Carbon capture is used to prevent the carbon dioxide from escaping into the environment . <h> Grey hydrogen <p> Currently , this is the most common form of hydrogen production . Grey hydrogen is created from natural gas , or methane , using steam methane reformation but without capturing the greenhouse gases made in the process . Grey hydrogen is essentially the same as blue hydrogen , but without the use of carbon capture and storage . <h> Black and brown hydrogen <p> This is the opposite of green hydrogen . It uses black coal or lignite to make hydrogen . It is an environmentally damaging process . <h> Pink hydrogen <p> Pink hydrogen is generated by electrolysis powered by nuclear energy . <h> Yellow hydrogen <p> Yellow hydrogen is a recent term for hydrogen made by electrolysis using solar power . <h> Why should you care ? <p> South Africa is ranked 14th in the world for greenhouse gas emissions , most of which are produced by the way we generate electricity . By providing a greener alternative fuel for shipping and large trucks and for power to energy-intensive industries , the country can significantly reduce its emissions . <p> Green hydrogen does have limitations , says Ronald Wesso from Beneficial Technologies , but it can replace fossil fuels in certain cases . Although it can not be a major contributor to reducing greenhouse gas emissions , it does have enormous potential to help . DM <p> The question of rising authoritarianism continues to plague not just South Africa , but the entire world . As far-right nationalist parties gain headway in EU elections and the US presidential election looms on the horizon , South Africa 's recently concluded election becomes an important case study for the future of democracy globally . <p> The popularity of former president Jacob Zuma 's freshly minted uMkhonto Wesizwe ( MK ) party demonstrates an increasing desire for populist rule and splintering along ethnic lines . <p> Mismanagement and corruption by the ANC have decreased trust in democracy , to the point where 64% of South Africans surveyed by the Human Sciences Research Council 's South African Social Attitudes Survey expressed dissatisfaction with the state of democracy , compared to an all-time low of 22% who were satisfied . <p> Disillusionment with governing institutions owing to poor service delivery , unemployment rates that peaked at 33% in 2023 , pervasive corruption that cost South Africa approximately $26-billion over nine years and State Capture produced an environment ripe for right-wing populist exploitation . <p> At first , political analysts focusing on rising populism primarily expressed concern over the xenophobic rhetoric of the Economic Freedom Fighters ( EFF ) and the Patriotic Alliance ( PA ) , but in the wake of the MK party outperforming expectations , new attention is being paid to the anti-foreign , militaristic nature of Zuma 's party . <p> The rhetoric and aesthetic of the MK party indicate an increasingly nationalistic bent to their message . This includes suggesting a return to African customary law and prioritisation of traditional leadership over democratically elected government and campaign posters depicting soldiers with the slogan " We will not hesitate to take our country back by force " . <p> Zuma , whose imprisonment for 15 months in July of 2021 set off a series of riots resulting in more than 350 deaths , bears obvious similarities to former US president , Donald Trump , whose election loss precipitated the 6 January insurrection . <p> Trump and Zuma have both been characterised by election denial , from Trump 's " stop the steal " rallying cry and continuous lambasting of media and government institutions to Zuma 's insistence that MK won two-thirds of the vote in the national election . Both share a distaste for democracy in the guise of populism , threatening to replace their respective countries ' constitutions . <p> " A Massive Fraud of this type and magnitude allows for the termination of all rules , regulations , and articles , even those found in the Constitution , " said Trump , on his social media platform , Truth Social . <p> The MK party echoed a similar sentiment , calling for " a referendum to scrap the 1996 Constitution and replace it with a parliamentary system with or without a codified Constitution " , a political structure analysts have likened to apartheid 's unfettered cruelty . MK , claiming to have evidence of election fraud but refusing to provide it , recently submitted an application to the Constitutional Court to have the election declared illegitimate and prevent Parliament from sitting on 14 June . <p> The origin point of these two figureheads is the same : dissatisfaction with the incompetence of neoliberal rule emerging in the form of populist nationalism . The prioritisation of one ethnic community , ardent defence of borders from perceived foreign threats and rampant xenophobia are all symptoms of nationalistic rule , a sentiment that has spiked globally . <p> What makes the violence enacted through this system unique is its decentralised nature ; instead of using the state to enforce policy , utilising citizen militias or mass political unrest allows political leaders to dodge accountability . <p> The US is no stranger to this strategy . In the lead-up to the 2020 elections , incumbent candidate Trump repeatedly urged his supporters to monitor polling locations to prevent election fraud . However , the result of this was what amounted to voter intimidation : poll workers wore Trump masks in Virginia , an armed man in uniform blocked voters from entering in Pennsylvania , and a man in military uniform carrying a gun was arrested in North Carolina . <p> Though widespread violence did not occur and large-scale intimidation was not reported , Trump 's hold on his base would later culminate in the 6 January insurrection , resulting in five deaths and many more injuries , including 140 police officers . <p> Since the violence happened as a result of mob violence and riots , Trump has been able to deny his own complicity while shifting the blame onto others . A similar strategy is used on the US-Mexico border , where migrants are caught in the crossfire between the Texas National Guard and the federal government after Texas Governor Greg Abbott deployed the guard in response to President Joe Biden 's perceived failure to defend the border from an " invasion " of immigrants . <p> Though state violence was certainly employed , more than 1,000 civilian members of a Telegram channel named " Take Back Our Border " rushed to assist , travelling in an armed convoy through Eagle Pass , Texas , throughout January and February . <p> Taking advantage of a legal grey area , approximately 200 unregulated militia members currently patrol the US-Mexico border in a legally ambiguous context , though some estimates have placed their numbers in the thousands . Some groups offer medical care and prayer , while others damage humanitarian aid stations and fly drones to surveil migrants attempting to cross the border . <p> Others are more overtly violent . In 2009 , three militia members murdered a man and his nine-year-old daughter in Arivaca , Arizona , in a xenophobic attack . The perpetrators were tried and sentenced , but as individuals , not as members of an organisation spurred on by the rhetoric of politicians and the tacit approval of police . <p> The strategy of stoking hatred towards immigrants and allowing civilians to enact violence in the state 's stead is illustrated in South Africa as well . Zuma has claimed that the primary driver of crime in South Africa is the increase in " foreign nationals " , though the MK party is not the only one to use xenophobic rhetoric . The Patriotic Alliance employs the Zulu slogan abahambe -- they must go -- while championing mass deportations as the solution to South Africa 's unemployment crisis . <p> Poverty , inequality and unemployment were the main drivers of the Alexandra Dudula movement , which sprang up in Johannesburg 's Alexandra township in 2021 alongside Operation Dudula in Johannesburg 's Soweto township . Both movements used the Zulu word for " drive back " and carried out patrols , surveillance and violent attacks on immigrants . The number of foreigners killed because of xenophobia nearly tripled in 2021 , spurred on by the perceived political inefficacy of the ANC and job loss owing to immigration . <p> Though the violence was not state-sponsored , neither did the state adequately defuse the anti-immigrant sentiment that led to it . Despite President Cyril Ramaphosa condemning Operation Dudula after the murder of a man suspected to be foreign , ANC national spokesperson Pule Mabe spoke out in support of it . <p> Advocacy groups have alleged that the police and Home Affairs Department have acted in collaboration with Operation Dudula to conduct raids , although the police have denied the accusations . Of course , the state does n't need to be involved to be complicit ; Texas militias operate quietly in conjunction with the National Guard , after all . <p> Though the MK party has been criticised for its ethno-nationalism , it 's not the only party that engages in xenophobia . The deputy president of the PA called for mass deportations after more than 70 people died in the Johannesburg fire , arguing that the cause of the tragedy was the state 's inability to evict immigrants living in abandoned buildings . On the heels of Alexandra Dudula 's xenophobic violence , members of the EFF visited Johannesburg restaurants to examine the number of foreign workers employed . <p> The pattern remains the same across the US and South Africa : ramp up the xenophobic rhetoric , exploit economic issues and dissatisfaction with the status quo for political capital and let citizen militias and vigilante groups do the rest . DM <p> Narnia Bohler-Muller is executive director in the Developmental , Capable and Ethical State division of the Human Sciences Research Council . <p> Robin Koshelev of Duke University is an intern in the Developmental , Capable and Ethical State division of the Human Sciences Research Council . <h> Comments <p> " termid " : 387188 , " name " : " Maverick News " , " slug " : " maverick-news " , " termgroup " : 0 , " ... Africa " , " slug " : " south-africa " , " termgroup " : 0 , ... Maverick is an independent online news publication and weekly print newspaper in South Africa. rnrnIt is known for breaking some of the defining stories of South Africa in the past decade , including the Marikana Massacre , in which the South African Police Service killed 34 miners in August 2012. rnrnIt also investigated the Gupta Leaks , which won the 2019 Global Shining Light Award. rnrnThat investigation was credited with exposing the Indian-born Gupta family and former President Jacob Zuma for their role in the systemic political corruption referred to as state capture. rnrnIn 2018 , co-founder and editor-in-chief Branislav u2018Brankou2019 Brkic was awarded the countryu2019s prestigious Nat Nakasa Award , recognised for initiating the investigative collaboration after receiving the hard drive that included the email tranche. rnrnIn 2021 , co-founder and CEO Styli Charalambous also received the award. rnrnDaily Maverick covers the latest political and news developments in South Africa with breaking news updates , analysis , opinions and more . " , " parent " : 0 , " count " : 47369 , " filter " : " raw ... Fikile Mbalula 's brother makes Free State cabinet ; Mxolisi Dukwana left out in the cold <p> Following the recent elections , the ANC has kept a stronghold on its birth province , the Free State , securing 52% support . Premier MaQueen Letsoha-Mathae has since announced her cabinet in a province beset by widespread service delivery failures , political infighting , unemployment and poverty , and a general lack of economic growth . <p> Barely a week after being sworn-in and officially inaugurated as premier of the embattled Free State province , MaQueen Letsoha-Mathae has announced the members of her executive , which she hopes will deal with corruption and prioritise service delivery . <p> Some of her MMCs however are no strangers to controversy , particularly Jabu Mbalula , who is the older brother of the ANC 's secretary-general Fikile Mbalula . <p> In 2022 , Jabu was identified as one of several ghost workers who fleeced the Passenger Rail Agency of SA ( Prasa ) in Mangaung of millions of rands as they earned huge salaries after the 2021 local government elections , but never worked a single day at the ailing municipality , The Citizen reported . <p> In 2023 , Jabu was appointed the party 's provincial spokesperson . He had previously been appointed SA 's ambassador to Romania in 2017 . Prior to his appointment as a spin doctor , he was reportedly active in building ANC structures in the province . <p> Sixteen months after being elected a spin doctor , Jabu has now been appointed MEC for Community Safety , Roads and Transport , a position previously occupied by the incumbent premier Letsoha-Mathae . <h> Lacking a clean audit <p> The members of the executive for the seventh administration were announced by Letsoha-Mathae on Thursday at OR Tambo House in Bloemfontein . They have a huge task ahead of them , given that not one municipality in the province received a clean audit opinion in the past six years , Auditor-General Tsakani Maluleke found in her office 's 2021/22 local government audit . <p> Maluleke also found that irregular expenditure remained high in most of the municipalities in the province . In 2021/22 , irregular expenditure in the province totalled R1.57-billion -- 7% of a total budget of R22.43-billion . <p> The province 's financial position was also dire -- with Maluleke having suggested that the current financial constraints were likely to be felt beyond 2022/23 " as 80% of municipalities will need to use at least half of the 2022/23 budget to pay for spending in the current year " . <p> For the MEC for Finance , Tourism and Economic Development portfolio , the premier appointed Moses Makume , who is also the ANC 's deputy chairperson in the province . <p> Surprisingly , chairperson Mxolisi Dukwana , who previously served as the premier -- did not make the cut , which was a second recent blow for him . The first blow was when he failed to impress the ANC 's top officials led by President Cyril Ramaphosa during an interview to be the party 's premier candidate , according to Sunday Times . A source with intimate knowledge of the deployments told Daily Maverick there were talks to have Dukwana occupy the vacant speaker position . <p> Another twist saw the ANC 's former speaker in the province , Ntombizanele Sifuba , who had been re-elected into the position , demoted to now serve as the MEC for Sports , Arts , Culture and Recreation . <p> For the Agriculture , Rural Development and Environmental Affairs portfolio , Elizabeth Rockman was appointed as the MEC . The department is embroiled in controversy linked to the multimillion-rand Vrede Dairy Project . Several arrests have been made in connection with the project , including former agriculture MEC and national mining minister Mosebenzi Zwane ; former department heads , Peter Thabethe and Limakatso Moorosi ; and former CFO Seipati Dhlamini . <p> Between them , they are facing charges of fraud , theft , corruption , money laundering and contravention of the Public Finance Management Act . <p> An abandoned state-of-the-art taxi rank not being utilised as it is situated opposite graveyards and far from residents . ( Photo : Felix Dlangamandla ) <h> Stern warning <p> Letsoha-Mathae issued a stern warning to her executive against disappointing the more than 2.9 million residents . <p> " You dare not disappoint , we are given a responsibility because we are earning , we are working . We are workers as well . We are public representatives but we really need to work and serve our people , she said . <p> The premier said that the seventh administration would endeavor to get rid of corruption and deal decisively with those who seek to halt service delivery . <p> " This administration shall be about fighting corruption , building an ethical state and providing quality services to our people . We make no apologies that our government will deal decisively with individuals who will stand in the way of effective and efficient service delivery . The team that I am announcing today reflects our commitment to addressing key priorities of our government , enhancing public service and ensuring a sustainable future for all our people , " Letsoha-Mathae . <p> The swearing-in ceremony for the MMCs is expected to take place on Sunday . DM <p> Despite all the threats of a doomsday scenario , a deal was struck between the African National Congress ( ANC ) , Democratic Alliance ( DA ) , Inkatha Freedom Party ( IFP ) and some of the other smaller political parties . I have to say that I was n't surprised that the ANC went this way . For the last year , I have reassured my clients that the ANC would -- albeit begrudgingly -- rather go with the DA and IFP than with the Economic Freedom Fighters ( EFF ) or the uMkhonto Wesizwe ( MK ) party . <p> Yet , thanks to the DA 's consistent doomsday campaign , people -- especially those in the financial sector -- remained sceptical and worried that the ANC would form a coalition with the far-left EFF or , even worse , amend the Constitution to ensure that they could stay in power despite defeat at the polls . <p> This is in some way understandable , given the tendency to do exactly that among former liberation **28;2226;TOOLONG in many countries with similar histories and socioeconomic inequalities . <p> Yet , despite the disaster that unfolded during the Zuma years , I still find it bizarre that so many in our country seem to think that those in government are stupid and that they have no clue about the impact of certain choices . <p> " Do you think they know how the markets would react to a coalition with the EFF ? " I would be asked this almost daily . My answer was always : " Of course , they do . " <p> To think that Cyril Ramaphosa , Enoch Godongwana and many of those in control of the ANC are oblivious to the negative economic impact a coalition with anti-market forces such as the EFF would have is frankly insulting . People like the President have as good an understanding of factors that impact on the markets as any other economist or asset manager in this country or abroad . <p> This is why I was n't surprised that the ANC accepted the concept of a Government of National Unity ( GNU ) , which included some form of agreement with the DA , IFP and even the Freedom Front Plus ( FF+ ) and other smaller parties . <p> As much as I was n't concerned about the ANC doing what many would describe as the " right thing " , I was worried about whether the DA would enter such an agreement . So , let me give credit to the negotiators and leadership of the DA ; I 'm sure that it was not easy for them . As one of the new DA legislators remarked to a journalist after the election of the President : " I never thought my first act as a DA parliamentarian would be to vote for the ANC . " <p> I was also impressed -- although less surprised -- by the manner in which the FF+ entered into an agreement with the ANC in the Northern Cape after the election . Its demands were few : security for Orania , an agency to solicit public-private partnerships and the chair of the local government oversight committee . The party even declined an offer for certain MEC positions . Given the good working relationship between the ANC and FF+ in the Northern Cape since 1994 , the deal was made quickly and without any difficulty . " Welgedaan , julle ! " <p> One of the earliest deals was the one in KwaZulu-Natal with the IFP . Even before the final votes were announced , word at the IEC results centre was that the IFP would get the premiership of KZN in exchange for its support of an ANC president on a national level . Of course , the support of the National Freedom Party ( NFP ) was vital , but thankfully that fell into place , despite endless false rumours that the NFP had sided with the MK party . <p> Now the politicians will have to make it work . Of course , it was never going to be easy and , according to my sources , the DA in particular is already making things very difficult ( as Helen Zille 's TV interview last week clearly signalled ) . <p> I was often asked by international journalists if this election was as momentous as the general elections of 1994 . Of course , it was not -- nothing could ever be . Yet , there is a distinct " post-1994 feeling " to the new reality we are facing now . As in those heady days after the first democratic election , our politicians rose to the occasion and better angels prevailed . <p> So , while the rest of us take a breath and get used to all the new faces in Parliament ( including Carl Niehaus in his EFF red overalls and miner 's helmet ) , it is now up to the politicians to show to the world that , unlike so many other countries , we can again do the unexpected and make a success of this new dispensation . DM <h> Comments <p> " termid " : 29 , " name " : " South Africa " , " slug " : " south-africa " , " termgroup " : 0 , ... Maverick is an independent online news publication and weekly print newspaper in South Africa. rnrnIt is known for breaking some of the defining stories of South Africa in the past decade , including the Marikana Massacre , in which the South African Police Service killed 34 miners in August 2012. rnrnIt also investigated the Gupta Leaks , which won the 2019 Global Shining Light Award. rnrnThat investigation was credited with exposing the Indian-born Gupta family and former President Jacob Zuma for their role in the systemic political corruption referred to as state capture. rnrnIn 2018 , co-founder and editor-in-chief Branislav u2018Brankou2019 Brkic was awarded the countryu2019s prestigious Nat Nakasa Award , recognised for initiating the investigative collaboration after receiving the hard drive that included the email tranche. rnrnIn 2021 , co-founder and CEO Styli Charalambous also received the award. rnrnDaily Maverick covers the latest political and news developments in South Africa with breaking news updates , analysis , opinions and more . " , " parent " : 0 , " count " : 47369 , " filter " : " raw ... Life " , " slug " : " maverick-life " , " termgroup " : 0 , " ... Burma Sahib -- discovering the mind of George Orwell -- before he became Orwell <p> In " Burma Sahib , " Paul Theroux skillfully navigates the treacherous waters of reimagining George Orwell 's early life as Eric Blair , offering a compelling blend of fact and fiction in his quest to uncover the inner struggles of a writer on the cusp of greatness . <p> Paul Theroux 's new book , ' Burma Sahib ' , reimagines the early life of Eric Blair/George Orwell , focusing on Blair 's journey to becoming a moral voice of the 20th century . <p> Unlike traditional historical fiction , Theroux embraces the real life of a famous writer , exploring Blair 's struggles with British prejudices and imperialism in Burma . <p> The novel follows Blair 's path from joining the Indian Imperial Police Force to resigning and becoming a Parisian kitchen worker , setting the stage for his transformation into essayist and author George Orwell . <p> Theroux 's portrayal of Blair 's experiences in Burma foreshadows Orwell 's later writings critiquing imperialism and social injustice , reflecting on themes of bullying , oppression , and class consciousness . <p> ( Image : Amazon.com ) <p> His new book , Burma Sahib is the US novelist and travel writer Paul Theroux 's reimagining of the early life of Eric Blair/George Orwell . In attempting this , Theroux has taken on one of the more difficult balancing acts of creative writing . <p> The book is an inversion of the novelist 's more usual technique of inserting a fully fictional character of their own imagining ( think Sydney Carton in Charles Dickens 's A Tale of Two Cities , perhaps ) into well-known historical circumstances , and using that character 's adventures to illuminate the mores and behaviours of that period or even to drive home an ideological point about their own time . <p> US novelist and travel writer Paul Theroux . ( Photo : Supplied ) <p> Instead , Theroux has embraced the real life of a well-known , actual historical person -- and another famous writer no less . He has tackled the development of a writer on the road to becoming one of the twentieth century 's most important moral voices . And yet , Theroux 's book is not quite biography . Instead , Theroux uses the stylistic devices and approaches of fiction in his search to locate the inner Orwell struggling to emerge from Eric Blair . <p> The object of Theroux 's attention is , of course , Eric Blair , rather than the man who Blair would become -- George Orwell . But the latter is not there yet and only arrives in the last few pages . <p> Theroux 's novel -- or perhaps we should call it a fictive biography -- begins as Blair , a teenager fresh out of Eton , eschewing the more normal path for someone in his cohort of going on to Oxford or Cambridge , enlists in the Indian Imperial Police Force in Burma , at the time part of the British Raj . This occurs to the astonishment of just about everyone who knows Blair . <p> ( Importantly , on his mother 's side , family members had lived and worked for generations in Burma in the timber trade . His father had been an opium agent for the British government of India and Blair was born in India . There was also his half-understood urge to become a writer as he dug deep into distant realms . ) <p> George Orwell was an English novelist , essayist , journalist and critic . ( Photo : medium.com / Wikipedia ) <p> In Theroux 's recreation of Blair 's saga , there was his initial absorption of the British ruling class 's prejudices in tandem with his creeping disdain for all that , and thus the crucible for his eventual travails . These feelings begin on his sea voyage to Burma as he becomes increasingly inculcated in the ways ( and deep-seated , vulgar prejudices ) of those " servants of the Raj " . The narrative moves on to the police training college in Mandalay , and then to a series of probationary , apprenticeship assignments in smaller outposts , and eventually to Rangoon , the colony 's capital . <p> Along the way , though , there are Blair 's growing misgivings about his suitability for his job choice , the deeper purposes of his policing and the meaning of the entire imperial system of which he is now a lowly cog . Blair has affairs with Burmese women , including his house servants , as well as an intellectually adventurous English woman who is bored with her memsahib-style life . But paradoxically , Blair also demonstrates still-ingrained prejudices towards his relatives in the city of Moulmein , some of whom have married into Burmese families , and various individuals -- especially Indians -- who befriend him . <p> Eventually , increasingly sickened by the realities of his poorly chosen career , Blair resigns from the police and becomes a Parisian hotel kitchen worker -- experiences Orwell will movingly depict in his first major writing , his book Down and Out in Paris and London . It is with this book that the pen name George Orwell is fully launched . <h> Bullying and oppression <p> Of course , there is also the writing Orwell created that looks back at his youth and experiences in Burma , all of which are foretold in Blair 's life as set out by Theroux . Orwell drew upon those school experiences for a major essay , written years later : Such , Such Were the Joys . <p> Theroux presages how Orwell will remember an experience filled with bullying and oppression by upper-class fellow students -- bitterly , mostly -- and how it helped give him a template to excoriate the entire imperial system from the inside . One sidelight to this class consciousness and support for the underdog is that during his life , Orwell continued to hold a low regard for the spiritual father of India 's redemption from colonial rule -- Mahatma Gandhi . <p> Any reader of Burma Sahib even modestly familiar with the Orwell canon will recall the writing Orwell eventually created to integrate his Burma experiences into his own metamorphosis as a leftwing moralist . Like so many other readers , I initially encountered the force of Orwell 's writing in junior high school English classes through reading those two astonishing essays Shooting an Elephant and A Hanging . <p> The actual events they depict show up in Theroux 's fictionalisation of Blair 's unfortunate carrying out of his police duties . And , just as Orwell did in those essays , Theroux imbues those experiences with much larger lessons , further estranging Blair from his ill-chosen career path . <p> Because this is also a work of imagination , rather than a straightforward biography , Theroux has filled in ( or invented ) events that make perfect sense in the ways of colonial Burma of the 1920s , even if there is less than full documentation of their having happened to Blair as a colonial policeman . Some reviewers , such as Darcy Moore , have taken Theroux to task for recasting some of Blair 's experiences and for fictionalising some of the very real people who populated Blair 's Burma life . <p> However , it should be understood that this is not a biography in the usual sense of the word and this way of describing things is very similar to the way real events have fictional elements introduced into them when they are the source material for televised or cinematic dramas . <p> Even if actual events were recomposed by Theroux , other similar ones at the outposts of colonial officialdom in small towns and Rangoon would undoubtedly have occurred . Moreover , in Theroux 's telling and from the evidence of Orwell 's writing , events like those became the clay Orwell would draw from and reshape as fiction when his first novel , Burmese Days , emerged nearly a decade later . <p> What Theroux aims to deliver is an exploration of the way a writer 's real life can become the raw material for his fictional creations , as well as the mysterious process that happens when a would-be writer finally achieves a public voice . <p> Curiously , in some ways , that evolution has echoes in Theroux 's own life . Blair/Orwell goes from the Indian Imperial Police to dishwasher in Paris , to chronicler of the lives of indigent farm labourers and coal miners , to soldier in the Spanish Civil War on the side of Republican Spain , to a position as an increasingly well-known essayist and novelist and then , ultimately , to the deeply disappointed socialist who sets out in unforgettable precision the great terrors of the future in Animal Farm and Nineteen Eighty-Four . <h> Beyond an ordinary life <p> In confronting the disruptions of our current era , Orwell 's predictions and fears have become increasingly relevant yet again , a topic I explored in an essay in this space two years ago . <p> Meanwhile , with his own trajectory , Theroux goes from a quotidian life as a student in the US to being a Peace Corps volunteer in Malawi , then a university lecturer in Uganda after he is forced to leave Malawi , to a time as an itinerant writer and teacher in Singapore , and finally to a career as one of the 20th and 21st centuries ' great travel writers . This lifetime of experiences has allowed Theroux to reveal the underbelly of the global political and social order -- even as he manages to squeeze in a lengthy public squabble with another writer of a similar sensibility , VS Naipaul . <p> In Theroux 's output , works like The Consul 's File , Saint Jack and The Great Railway Bazaar emerge out of his own life as a sojourner in places well beyond the world of his upbringing . In his travels through Southeast and East Asia , his dry , wry outlook collided in so many ways , as did Blair 's , with the vast , colourful , exotic , mysterious ( or inscrutable ? ) universe that is Asia . <p> In my youth I also had the itch to move beyond an ordinary life , joining the Foreign Service to explore Africa and Asia . Reading Orwell 's oeuvre , as well as stories and novels by others who tackled such places -- Joseph Conrad , Somerset Maugham , Anthony Burgess , Graham Greene , EM Forster , JG Ballard , VS Naipaul , William Boyd , the memoirs of early travellers and diplomats in Asia , among others -- excited me . <p> Theroux and my paths seemed to have crossed several times . One of Theroux 's short stories , A Funeral in Surabaya , echoes my experiences living in Surabaya , Indonesia . Theroux 's story describes the quarrels surrounding a funeral in a regional city in eastern Java for a member of the remnant Jewish community there . There ca n't be many Western writers who have described such a small community in a distant Indonesian city -- even if that city had been the commercial hub and big city of the Dutch East Indies in Conrad 's novels . <p> And yet while I was living there , oddly enough , I ended up officiating over a Passover Seder for that actual community -- even as we were observed by a class of Indonesian students at a Lutheran seminary . The old synagogue there was by then under the protection of the Muslim widow of a Baghdadi Jew whose family had migrated to Surabaya in the early 1900s . As the community slowly passed into history , that house of worship was soon to be deconsecrated and sold off . <p> A few years later , in Sapporo , Japan , shortly after I arrived there , one of our staffers proudly showed me the chapter in Theroux 's travelogue The Great Railway Bazaar where that employee had played a visible role . While Theroux had called him Watanabe-san , not his real name , the similarities in style , behaviour , and even physiognomy were unmistakable . <p> In fact , " Watanabe 's " assistance made it clear many of our diplomatic offices across Asia had been instrumental in Theroux 's journey across the continent , rather than it having been serendipitous , accidental explorations . Had I been in Sapporo just two years earlier , Theroux and I would have explored Japanese nightclubs and cabarets together . <h> Rediscovering Orwell <p> But let us return to the contemporary relevance of Orwell and why Theroux may have elected to tackle this challenging project . In the post-Cold War world , Orwell 's dire predictions and fears sometimes seemed misplaced ; a leftover from those more perilous , dangerous times . <p> But more recently , especially with the rise of a belligerent , increasingly authoritarian Russia , its threats and then invasion of Ukraine , a resurgent China , and what seems to be a forever conflict in the Middle East , Orwell 's foreboding of an unending , three-sided global conflict , once more seems more prediction or prophecy than a novelist 's lurid imaginings . <p> There is now a burgeoning Orwell industry . New primary source materials have become available , new biographical works , and even a feminist retelling of Nineteen Eighty-Four -- Julia , by Sandra Newman , which was authorised by the administrators of Orwell 's literary estate . <p> Theroux 's Burma Sahib allows readers an opportunity to rediscover the Orwell before he was a harbinger of a dire future ; when he was just beginning to figure out who he was and what he would like to become . A fictionalised rendition of an author 's beginnings delves into how his unpromising start in his first professional effort became the crucible that helped turn him into the writer he ultimately became . <p> In Burma Sahib 's epigraph , Theroux quotes Orwell : " There is a short period in everyone 's life when his character is fixed forever . " Theroux is intent on focusing tightly on that very short period in Burma when Blair/Orwell 's character is cast , and the outlines of the writer Orwell became emerge in the experiences Theroux offers his readers . DM <h> Comments <p> " termid " : 387188 , " name " : " Maverick News " , " slug " : " maverick-news " , " termgroup " : 0 , " ... Africa " , " slug " : " south-africa " , " termgroup " : 0 , ... Maverick is an independent online news publication and weekly print newspaper in South Africa. rnrnIt is known for breaking some of the defining stories of South Africa in the past decade , including the Marikana Massacre , in which the South African Police Service killed 34 miners in August 2012. rnrnIt also investigated the Gupta Leaks , which won the 2019 Global Shining Light Award. rnrnThat investigation was credited with exposing the Indian-born Gupta family and former President Jacob Zuma for their role in the systemic political corruption referred to as state capture. rnrnIn 2018 , co-founder and editor-in-chief Branislav u2018Brankou2019 Brkic was awarded the countryu2019s prestigious Nat Nakasa Award , recognised for initiating the investigative collaboration after receiving the hard drive that included the email tranche. rnrnIn 2021 , co-founder and CEO Styli Charalambous also received the award. rnrnDaily Maverick covers the latest political and news developments in South Africa with breaking news updates , analysis , opinions and more . " , " parent " : 0 , " count " : 47369 , " filter " : " raw ... Life " , " slug " : " maverick-life " , " termgroup " : 0 , " ... Encounters SA documentary festival 2024 -- where and what to see <p> The 26th Encounters South African International Film Festival is back from 20 to 30 June , bringing a round of fresh perspectives and eye-opening stories from across the globe . <p> The popular documentary festival is back with its 26th instalment of international films , which will be showing in limited theatres in Cape Town , Johannesburg , and the pop-up Sunshine Cinema venue in a few other locations across the country . <p> The festival is screening 46 documentaries that deal with pressing issues from around the world , exploring topics like mental health in the Black community , climate change , generational trauma , global conflicts , and sexual violence , as well as preserving untold stories . <p> From the 46 films featured ranging from short films to full-length feature films , 43 films are premiering in South Africa for the first time and 14 are making their world debut . <p> Over half of the documentaries focus on African stories from across the continent . <p> Nash'at gained access to the inner workings of the Taliban regime through a high-ranking commander of the Air Force as the unit took over an abandoned CIA base in Kabul . <p> While he remained cautious of the constructed reality the Taliban presented to him , he was able to capture a glimpse of their takeover , now freshly equipped with weapons left behind by the CIA . <p> " I hope it also shows that the Taliban understands what propaganda is now and the war has been beneficial to them in many ways , not just getting all the weapons but also having the strongest weapon , which is propaganda . They tried to use cinema through me , but cinema this time survived through them , " Nash'at said . <p> The jazz-filled score and the free-flowing structure will transport viewers into the decadent yet tumultuous world of the 1960s this narrative is centred on . <p> The Belgian film by director Johan Grimonprez juxtaposes the lush musical sounds of Louis Armstrong , Dizzy Gillespie , and Nina Simone with the covert operations the CIA used them for without their knowledge and the suspicious assassination of Patrice Lumumba , Congo 's first democratically elected prime minister . Set against the backdrop of the Cold War and the decolonisation movement storming Africa , political upheaval and music meet in a rhythmic dance of history <p> Directed by Andreas Hartmann and Arata Mori , this Japanese film explores the mystery of vanishing citizens known as Johatsu or " the evaporated , " part of the 80,000 that disappear every year , who choose to abandon their old lives in favour of starting over without a trace . <p> Johatsu . ( Photo : Supplied ) <p> The documentary captures an inside look -- from all angles -- of the phenomenon , talking with the family members of the vanished , people who have chosen to disappear , and the illicit " night movers " who facilitate these disappearances . <p> London Recruits : Thursday 27 June , 7.00 pm in Cape Town and Tuesday 25 June in Johannesburg , 7.00 pm , both followed by a post-screening panel discussion <p> London Recruits is a South African film by director Gordon Main that recently won Best Documentary at the 2024 Joburg Film Festival . The documentary combines dramatic reenactment with contemporary interviews to unfold the shared history of more than 60 white people recruited from London to pose as tourists while secretly working with the ANC in the ' 60s and ' 70s to rebuild their underground operations . <p> Palestinian director Kamal Aljafari reconstructs the history of his homeland using retrieved film and photos once stolen by the IDF from Beirut 's Palestine Research Center in the summer of 1982 . Aljafari reclaims these memories and transforms them into a beautiful melange exploring forgotten history . <p> The Bioscope screening in Johannesburg will also host a post-film panel discussion " Notes on the Archives " featuring Zen Marie and Zara Julius . DM <p> The Bioscope Independent Cinema and The Zone @ Rosebank Cinema 3 in Johannesburg will be showing select films , as well as The Labia Theater and Ster Kinekor V&amp;A in Cape Town . Free screenings of a smaller range of the films will be shown at the Bertha Movie House in the Isivivana Centre in Khayelitsha with RSVP required . <h> Comments <p> " termid " : 387188 , " name " : " Maverick News " , " slug " : " maverick-news " , " termgroup " : 0 , " ... Africa " , " slug " : " south-africa " , " termgroup " : 0 , ... Maverick is an independent online news publication and weekly print newspaper in South Africa. rnrnIt is known for breaking some of the defining stories of South Africa in the past decade , including the Marikana Massacre , in which the South African Police Service killed 34 miners in August 2012. rnrnIt also investigated the Gupta Leaks , which won the 2019 Global Shining Light Award. rnrnThat investigation was credited with exposing the Indian-born Gupta family and former President Jacob Zuma for their role in the systemic political corruption referred to as state capture. rnrnIn 2018 , co-founder and editor-in-chief Branislav u2018Brankou2019 Brkic was awarded the countryu2019s prestigious Nat Nakasa Award , recognised for initiating the investigative collaboration after receiving the hard drive that included the email tranche. rnrnIn 2021 , co-founder and CEO Styli Charalambous also received the award. rnrnDaily Maverick covers the latest political and news developments in South Africa with breaking news updates , analysis , opinions and more . " , " parent " : 0 , " count " : 47369 , " filter " : " raw ... Maverick " , " slug " : " business-maverick " , " termgr ... After the Bell : What trajectory will inflation take if SA 's economic growth takes off ? <p> One area where there is broad agreement among the parties that have signed up for the government of national unity ( GNU ) is that South Africa needs much higher rates of economic growth . <p> But if and when the pace of economic growth really picks up some proper steam as the GNU dawn rises , what would that mean for inflation in South Africa ? <p> It 's a question worth raising because for well over a decade now , South Africa has been saddled with an unenviable combination : pathetic rates of economic growth , sky-high unemployment , and relatively high rates of inflation . <p> At times , the economy has veered down the path of stagflation , which describes this combo of stagnation . <p> By any comparison , South Africa 's economic growth profile over the past 15 years has been a laggard on the global stage . ( See chart ) . Advanced economies , emerging markets , the rest of sub-Saharan Africa , as well as the global average show South Africa has been dawdling along in the slow lane . <p> The economy contracted 0.1% in the first quarter of this year after growing just 0.3% in the fourth quarter of 2023 , when a recession was narrowly averted . The economy is effectively barely growing at all and seems at times not just to be in the slow lane , but stalled in the emergency lane waiting for a boost . <p> This is a key reason why the unemployment rate is almost 33% and based on its broadest measure well over 40% . <p> But despite this massive constraint on demand pressures , inflation has -- with some exceptions -- remained stubbornly high . <p> During the period since 2009 of low growth , South Africa 's consumer price index -- CPI -- has averaged 5.0% or more in all but six calendar years , and will likely do so again this year . <p> This six years when it slowed to less than 6% includes 2020 , when the economy sank under the crushing weight of Covid-19 lockdown restrictions . <p> Such rates of inflation just do n't add up against the backdrop of swelling levels of joblessness and an economy expanding at the pace of a three-legged turtle . <h> US contrast <p> The US economy offers a stark juxtaposition . <p> The US unemployment rate is near historic lows at 4% , CPI is running at 3.3% , and the current economic growth rate is 1.3% . <p> Inflation is well down from its recent peaks in the US , but the US Federal Reserve has an inflation target of 2.0% , which is why interest rates in the world 's largest economy remain elevated with no cut now seen before late this year . <p> But , you know , when your unemployment rate is close to historic lows , you can generally expect some inflation -- a point generally lost in the US on the Maga cult of an economic illiterate named Donald Trump . <p> It 's the classic scenario which I recall from 40 years ago in Economics 101 : most of the workforce has a steady income which means lots of stuff gets bought , while workers can be fussy about the jobs on offer , which in turn pushes wages and prices up . <p> This state of affairs hardly describes the South African economy , which points to underlying " structural " challenges -- polite economics jargon for an unfolding Eff-Up . <p> Inflation in South Africa is hardly the consequence of fast growth and low unemployment . In fact , it 's stuck in a Twilight Zone where the gaping pot holes of state failure have simultaneously shredded the tyres of gross domestic product ( GDP ) growth while paving a fast lane for inflation . <p> It 's quite a feat to defy the basic laws of economic gravity . <p> There are many examples of this strewn along the Highway to Economic Hell . <h> Rand fluctuation <p> Take the steady decline in the value of the rand since 2009 -- a key indicator of underlying economic confidence , or lack thereof . It has basically gone over this timeframe from around 10/$ to its current levels below 18/$ -- with flirtations between which took it to close to 20/$ -- effectively losing close to half of its value over the past 15 years . That 's according to an online currency **25;2256;TOOLONG that I plugged the numbers into . <p> That alone has been a fuel -- literally -- for inflation because of the price of oil imports , which are denominated in greenbacks . <p> In 2009 , the average per barrel price of the benchmark Brent Crude was $61.51 , according to Statista . It is now around $84 a barrel with lots of peaks and troughs in between . <p> The bottom line is that it is now about 40% higher on average than it was in 2009 , while the rand has lost a higher percentage of its value against the dollar , which has kept fuel inflation bubbling . And South Africa imports a lot more than just oil . The rand 's value has implications for food prices and much else . <h> Powerless <p> Then there is the inflationary impact of the chronic power shortages which have been in thankfully short supply since late March of this year , in part because of improvements at Eskom , but largely owing to the scramble for solar panel installation by business and households . <p> The South African Reserve Bank ( Sarb ) estimated last year that the rolling blackouts were adding 0.5 percentage points to inflation -- a material level that partly reflected the costs of businesses burning diesel to keep their operations in , well , business . <p> Eskom tariff increases from 2007 to 2022 amounted to a staggering 653% , while South Africa 's consumer price index ( CPI ) over that period rose 129% according to data compiled by PowerOptimal . <p> CPI would have moved along at a much slower pace were it not for those " administered costs " . And the power crisis has also been regarded as the biggest hindrance to economic growth . <p> The pattern is becoming clear . <h> Minerals and logistics <p> Then there are the costs of doing business inflicted by Transnet 's woes and the logistics crisis this triggered , with the mining and other sectors of the economy opting for the more expensive but relatively reliable option of moving their product by truck instead of rail . <p> And while lifting costs , the Minerals Council South Africa has estimated that , between 2021 and 2023 , South Africa lost out on R90-billion from coal and iron ore exports alone , which equates to 1.4 percentage points of GDP over three years . <h> Crime <p> Rampant crime has also triggered soaring costs . The World Bank estimated in a report last year that crime cost South Africa 's economy -- by a " conservative estimate " -- the equivalent of 10% of its slow-growing GDP every year . <p> There is a truly vicious cycle at work here . Crime constraints growth while dramatically raising the cost of doing business because of security measures and losses incurred from theft , thereby adding to inflation . <p> So , how does the GNU in partnership with the private sector promote faster economic growth without opening the floodgates of inflation ? <p> For one thing , raising the reliability of power supply while reducing its costs would help greatly . Addressing the logistics crisis will also go a long way to boosting growth while cutting price pressures . And the same goes for crime and corruption . <h> GNU dawn , same challenges <p> Resolving this trio of challenges will steer South Africa off the road to stagflation , while boosting confidence in and the value of the rand . And thankfully , there has at least been progress on the power and logistics fronts , not least because of government/business initiatives which should gain traction under the GNU . <p> It 's also worth noting that a low rate of inflation in turn can underpin economic growth . It lifts consumer and business confidence as incomes and revenue flows are not eroded and provides households and businesses with more capital to spend , save and invest . <p> The lower interest rates that coincide with a benign inflationary environment are a further boost to economic growth . This poses a difficult balancing act for central banks that need to craft a monetary policy environment that can support growth without stoking inflation . <p> On this score , the South African Reserve Bank ( Sarb ) has been a godsend , with its relentless pursuit of bringing inflation to the middle of its 3% to 6% target range . At 5.2% , we are not there yet and it may take awhile . <p> But firmly anchoring inflation and inflation expectations in that range or lower is a good space to be in if economic growth finally takes off . And under the GNU , the Sarb 's independence also has a firm anchor . <h> Comments <p> " termid " : 387188 , " name " : " Maverick News " , " slug " : " maverick-news " , " termgroup " : 0 , " ... Africa " , " slug " : " south-africa " , " termgroup " : 0 , ... Maverick is an independent online news publication and weekly print newspaper in South Africa. rnrnIt is known for breaking some of the defining stories of South Africa in the past decade , including the Marikana Massacre , in which the South African Police Service killed 34 miners in August 2012. rnrnIt also investigated the Gupta Leaks , which won the 2019 Global Shining Light Award. rnrnThat investigation was credited with exposing the Indian-born Gupta family and former President Jacob Zuma for their role in the systemic political corruption referred to as state capture. rnrnIn 2018 , co-founder and editor-in-chief Branislav u2018Brankou2019 Brkic was awarded the countryu2019s prestigious Nat Nakasa Award , recognised for initiating the investigative collaboration after receiving the hard drive that included the email tranche. rnrnIn 2021 , co-founder and CEO Styli Charalambous also received the award. rnrnDaily Maverick covers the latest political and news developments in South Africa with breaking news updates , analysis , opinions and more . " , " parent " : 0 , " count " : 47369 , " filter " : " raw ... All eyes on Ramaphosa to see who gets which Cabinet positions <p> When President Cyril Ramaphosa announces his Cabinet sometime after his inauguration on Wednesday , it will signal the seriousness of shaping this much-talked-about national unity government -- and who holds power where . <p> In 2019 , President Cyril Ramaphosa took four days to announce his Cabinet , consulting with ANC alliance partners , Cosatu and the South African Communist Party , after winning a substantial 57% majority in the election . <p> Ramaphosa , facing a decreased ANC majority in 2024 , is navigating talks with other parties like the DA , IFP , Patriotic Alliance , and Good for a national unity government , potentially delaying the Cabinet announcement . <p> The GNU Cabinet faces challenges as key ANC ministers are out of a job , with speculation on potential Cabinet posts for the DA , IFP , Patriotic Alliance , and Good , as seen in past cooperative cabinets . <p> With history as a guide , the 2024 partners in the national unity government could share significant ministries affecting South Africa 's socioeconomic development , while the ANC is unlikely to relinquish control of security and economic portfolios . <p> In 2019 , fresh from an election that gave the ANC a substantial 57% majority and two years after a tight contest for ANC leadership , President Cyril Ramaphosa took four days to announce his Cabinet . This was an unusually long time , but was explained away by the need to consult with ANC alliance partners , Cosatu and the South African Communist Party . <p> Ramaphosa 's presidential predecessors Thabo Mbeki and Jacob Zuma had announced their cabinets , including changes to the portfolios , the day after their inaugurations . <p> Section 94 of the Constitution ends the terms of ministers and deputy ministers when the new president is sworn in . However , departments continue their work based on the annual performance and strategic plans already submitted to Parliament . <p> In 2024 , Ramaphosa is two years into a decisively won ANC presidency , but at the helm of an ANC that plummeted to 40.2% at the polls -- costing the party its governing majority . <p> Talks with other political parties like the DA , IFP , Patriotic Alliance ( PA ) and Good over more than a week led to a national unity government statement of intent signed as MPs were sworn in on Friday , 14 June . <p> Ramaphosa was duly re-elected , while ANC MP Thoko Didiza was elected National Assembly Speaker and DA MP Annelie Lotriet her deputy on the back of combined DA , IFP and ANC numbers . <p> Ramaphosa could take even longer to announce his new Cabinet than he did in 2019 . Just like getting over the dotted line of the cooperation deal last Friday , talks on national executive posts may push out timelines . Talks had not started properly by Monday , it 's understood . Consultations would not only include ANC alliance partners , but also the leaders of political parties that are now part of this national unity government , in line with their cooperation agreement . <p> Let 's be blunt -- a coalition by any other name is still a coalition . But if calling it a government of national unity ( GNU ) means capturing the historic moment in South African politics when South African voters broke the ANC 's grip on uncontested power , so be it . <h> Balancing act <p> Ramaphosa 's GNU Cabinet faces immediate challenges . The ANC is unlikely to let go of defence and international relations -- and most if not all economic ministries -- as both incumbent ministers Thandi Modise and Naledi Pandor are effectively out of a job once Ramaphosa swears the oath of office at the Union Buildings on Wednesday . They did not make it back to Parliament because they were too low on the ANC candidates lists . <p> However , Ramaphosa could use his constitutional discretion to appoint both Modise and Pandor as the two ministers from outside the National Assembly , according to Section 91(3) ( c ) of the Constitution . <p> But this could tether his hand elsewhere in the consultations . This could , for example , include getting outgoing police minister Bheki Cele back into Cabinet . Cele , who , despite widespread public criticism , is said to enjoy support among the current executive , also missed the cut-off to make it back to Parliament . <p> There 's speculation that the DA could get five Cabinet posts and the IFP two or three . At least a couple would go to the PA and one to Good , whose leader Patricia de Lille is the current tourism minister . <p> In past cooperative cabinets , ANC presidents included the opposition as tourism and public works ministers -- like De Lille in Ramaphosa 's administration -- while under Mbeki , Azapo leader Mosibudi Mangena held the science and technology portfolio . In Zuma 's first executive , then Freedom Front Plus leader Pieter Mulder was deputy agriculture minister . <p> If the FF+ agrees to join the 2024 national unity government , it will , like the IFP , be its second stint in such a cooperative governance arrangement . <p> In the 1994 GNU , required by the interim constitution until at least the final supreme law was in place , the IFP held the ministries of home affairs , correctional services and arts , culture , technology and science . The National Party held tourism , environmental affairs , social development and minerals and energy -- the last portfolio held by apartheid 's longest-serving foreign affairs minister , Pik Botha . <p> If history is an indicator , the 2024 partners in South Africa could share among them some serious ministries which could have an impact on South Africa 's socioeconomic development . However , it is understood the ANC would be unlikely to give up the security cluster ministries like defence , police , state security and home affairs -- and the heavyweight economic ministries like finance , labour and perhaps trade and industry . <h> Reinflating Cabinet <p> Currently , there are 30 ministries and 36 deputy ministries . That 's more than the 28 ministries Ramaphosa had in his 2019 Cabinet which was reduced from 36 ministries by merging several portfolios like mineral resources and energy , higher education and science and technology , and environmental affairs and forestry and fisheries . <p> In the March 2023 Cabinet reshuffle , Ramaphosa appointed in his Presidency a new electricity minister and made planning , monitoring and evaluation a full ministry . <p> In the August 2021 reshuffle , the state security ministry was abolished and the function was assigned to the minister in the Presidency , while human settlements and water and sanitation -- that merged in 2019 -- were again separated . <p> In the February 2023 State of the Nation Address ( Sona ) , the president had undertaken a reduction of the executive in an echo of his 2019 pledge to restructure the size and shape of government . <p> " ... I have instructed the Presidency and National Treasury to work together to rationalise government departments , entities and programmes over the next three years . National Treasury estimates that we could achieve a potential saving of R27-billion in the medium term if we deal with overlapping mandates , close ineffective programmes and consolidate entities where appropriate , " said Ramaphosa in the 2023 Sona . <p> In June 2024 , ANC Secretary-General Fikile Mbalula raised the possibility of a larger Cabinet to accommodate all cooperation partners . ActionSA and the South African Medical Association raised concerns over reinflating the size of the executive . <p> " ActionSA ... urges the ruling coalition to reduce the number of government departments to approximately 20 and to eliminate unnecessary deputy minister positions in all departments . We believe this will free up funds to be redirected towards critical areas like service delivery and the maintenance of critical economic infrastructure , " said the party 's parliamentary leader Athol Trollip in a statement at the weekend . <p> Ramaphosa 's Cabinet and executive , including deputy ministers , will get the GNU officially on the road and test the much-touted new way of doing politics and governance in South Africa 's 30-year-old constitutional democracy . DM <h> Comments <p> 5 posts translates to only 16% of posts far below the nearly 1/3 of votes DA brings to the coalition . Why the rats and mice like Good even need to be there I do not know . <p> Robert Dionsays : <p> 20 June , 2024 at 13:41 <p> The size of cabinet should be dramatically reduced to rational proportions BEFORE selecting members of cabinet Once cabinet is selected the actions to be taken to reverse the disaster since 1994 must be made public -- both for dritical appraisal and as a yardstick to measure performance <p> Geoff Colessays : <p> 20 June , 2024 at 11:49 <p> Sigh , do n't see why the PAC should be considered for a Cabinet position as they have no MP 's .... or indeed Good with only the one in National Parliament . <p> D'Esprit Dansays : <p> 20 June , 2024 at 09:37 <p> In a perfect world , posts such as Minerals and Energy , Trade and Industry , Transport and Telecommunications would go to the DA and/or IFP , to bring in some sensible policy and implementation , implementation , implementation . We need the pillars of our economy on steroids to deliver jobs and taxes . <p> Hilary Morrissays : <p> 20 June , 2024 at 09:32 <p> " Naledi Pandor is effectively out of a job " has a beautiful ring to it . Let 's keep it that way . She is a completely biased , one sided ( yes I know it 's the same ) , danger to our country . A more balanced approach should come with a more balanced government . <p> Elvis Smithsays : <p> 20 June , 2024 at 07:58 <p> Cosatu is a workers union not a political party why must they be consulted for anything that has to do with the government ? That is why a lot of countries are doing away with unions because they interfere to much in politics instead of fighting for their workers a lot still needs to change in S.A. <p> Nick Griffonsays : <p> 20 June , 2024 at 06:36 <p> Surely you ca n't have a bank robbera cabinet partition <p> Greeff Kotz ? says : <p> 20 June , 2024 at 04:16 <p> He should absolutely give Home Affairs to the DA . There can be no better stress test of their vaunted administration capabilities than the unfathomable tangle that is DHA . Plus the position should go to a party that has neither been lax nor inflammatory about illegal immigration . <p> TS HIGGOsays : <p> 19 June , 2024 at 16:40 <p> Do n't be surprised if he appoints ANC cadres named in the Zondo state capture report and others named in corruption investigations ... they 've been in cabinet till a week ago , why would he get a sudden burst of integrity <p> David Peddlesays : <p> 19 June , 2024 at 13:32 <p> The President has sole authority to appoint DGs . He can appoint a street sweeper to the DG post of Minerals and Energy if he so wishes ! Consequently until that power is handed over to the relevant minister , the departments will remain the same . The DA took years to rid the WC and CT of the ANC clutterbucks entrenched in the departments , and I suspect there are still a few moles drifting about . The point is not your party affiliation but capability to efficiently do your job . The EU is eg overrun with coalitions and they sort of work at the political level , the difference is the ability of the civil service to manage the country ! ! <p> Ray macsays : <p> 19 June , 2024 at 12:18 <p> Until politicians are forced to use the same services they deliver ... ie education and health as example ... well always be stuck here . <p> Maronga Marongasays : <p> 19 June , 2024 at 11:45 <p> I believe Cyril does not have control over DA , IFP , PA puts in the portfolio allocated to them . Let 's hope all parties bring their best personnel . The task at hand is not easy . Kudos to ANC/ DA for taking the risk that can serve the country or destroy one or both parties . Do n't wish to Jonh or Cyril <p> Phil Bakersays : <p> 19 June , 2024 at 09:55 <p> The cabinet should consist of qualified and competent individuals who have a track record of success in their respective fields , a passion for serving the community , and a commitment to transparency , integrity , and accountability . <p> Phil Bakersays : <p> 19 June , 2024 at 09:55 <p> However , I can suggest that Cyril Ramaphosa should select a diverse group of individuals with different backgrounds , experiences , and expertise to form a cabinet that represents the people of South Africa 's interests and needs . <p> Phil Bakersays : <p> 19 June , 2024 at 09:54 <p> so this is what chat GPT has to say " What would be the ideal cabinet for Cyril ramaphosa to choose who 's abilities would be for the best of the people of South Africa and why " <p> " As an AI assistant , I do not take sides or make political judgments . " <p> Greg de Bruynsays : <p> 19 June , 2024 at 09:31 <p> I understood posts would be awarded according to seats in parliament . The ratio of 159/87/39 for the big 3 's 285 means 9 seats for a post . None of the smaller parties came close to this . In a cabinet of 30 , the division should be 17/9/4 . The DA should feel cheated with 5 minor posts . <p> Sydney Kayesays : <p> 19 June , 2024 at 09:18 <p> Good has hardly any support . Neither do the PAC and UDM who just rushed in from Fear of Missing Out . None need feature . PA was a bit quicker to see which way the wind was blowing but hardly deserve anything more than a minor position . <p> TP Mudausays : <p> 19 June , 2024 at 09:14 <p> Knowing Ramaphosa , lets give him at least 3 months to eventually come up with a cabinet . We waited 2 weeks for his cabinet reshuffle in 2022 and he made 4 changes . Lets not hold our breath . <p> Rae Earlsays : <p> 19 June , 2024 at 08:46 <p> Unions are not government . This new cabinet must side line Cosatu , NUM , AMCU etc and start running the country as a government not as a buddy buying union votes . Ramaphosa will now have solid backing from a cabinet in making decisions without currying favour . You can now be a leader Mr. Ramaphosa . <p> Allrite Jacksays : <p> 19 June , 2024 at 08:12 <p> It has n't made any difference in the last 20 years which ANC mafia affirmative is appointed to any post . The outcome is ineviably failure , with a few more apparatchiks enriched . <p> Johan Buyssays : <p> 19 June , 2024 at 07:58 <p> Move Mantashe to VP , making Mashatile Moscow ambassador or anywhere . <p> Problem : cadre sources may change , but which DA/IFP cadres are truly capable and equipped to run MRE , SOE , Trade &amp; Industry , Health for example ? <p> It will take years to shed the incompetents in DG and DDG posts . <p> Kevin Ventersays : <p> 19 June , 2024 at 06:50 <p> Do n't really care as long as 1 ) the corrupt are finally held accountable for their theft from the poor 2 ) The assigned ministers are held accountable for the delivery of their portfolio . The country is f&amp;*ed thanks to the ANC cadre deployment resulting in theft and uselessness . <h> We hope you are enjoying <h> Article Summaries <h> Top 10 reads that update every hour <p> We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits . By clicking " Accept All " , you consent to the use of ALL the cookies . However , you may visit " Cookie Settings " to provide a controlled consent . <h> Privacy Overview <p> This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website . Out of these , the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website . We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website . These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent . You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies . But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience . <p> Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly . These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website , anonymously . <p> Cookie <p> Duration <p> Description <p> cfduid <p> 1 month <p> The cookie is used by cdn services like CloudFlare to identify individual clients behind a shared IP address and apply security settings on a per-client basis . It does not correspond to any user ID in the web application and does not store any personally identifiable information . <p> GRECAPTCHA <p> 5 months 27 days <p> This cookie is set by Google . In addition to certain standard Google cookies , reCAPTCHA sets a necessary cookie ( GRECAPTCHA ) when executed for the purpose of providing its risk analysis . <p> cid <p> 1 year <p> This is an important cookie in making credit card transaction on the website . It allows the online transaction without storing the credit card information.This service is provided by Stripe.com . <p> connect.sid <p> 1 month <p> This cookie is used for authentication and for secure log-in . It registers the log-in information . <p> **36;2283;TOOLONG <p> 1 year <p> Set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin , this cookie is used to record the user consent for the cookies in the " Advertisement " category . <p> **32;2321;TOOLONG <p> 11 months <p> This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin . The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category " Analytics " . <p> **33;2355;TOOLONG <p> 11 months <p> The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category " Functional " . <p> **32;2390;TOOLONG <p> 11 months <p> This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin . The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category " Necessary " . <p> **29;2424;TOOLONG <p> 11 months <p> This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin . The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category " Other . <p> **34;2455;TOOLONG <p> 11 months <p> This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin . The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category " Performance " . <p> CookieLawInfoConsent <p> 1 year <p> Records the default button state of the corresponding category &amp; the status of CCPA . It works only in coordination with the primary cookie . <p> elementor <p> never <p> This cookie is used by the website 's WordPress theme . It allows the website owner to implement or change the website 's content in real-time . <p> JSESSIONID <p> session <p> Used by sites written in JSP . General purpose platform session cookies that are used to maintain users ' state across page requests . <p> PHPSESSID <p> session <p> This cookie is native to PHP applications . The cookie is used to store and identify a users ' unique session ID for the purpose of managing user session on the website . The cookie is a session cookies and is deleted when all the browser windows are closed . <p> viewedcookiepolicy <p> 11 months <p> The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies . It does not store any personal data . <p> Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website . These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors , bounce rate , traffic source , etc . <p> Cookie <p> Duration <p> Description <p> gads <p> 1 year 24 days <p> This cookie is set by Google and stored under the name dounleclick.com . This cookie is used to track how many times users see a particular advert which helps in measuring the success of the campaign and calculate the revenue generated by the campaign . These cookies can only be read from the domain that it is set on so it will not track any data while browsing through another sites . <p> ga <p> 2 years <p> This cookie is installed by Google Analytics . The cookie is used to calculate visitor , session , campaign data and keep track of site usage for the site 's analytics report . The cookies store information anonymously and assign a randomly generated number to identify unique visitors . <p> gaY7XD5FHQVG <p> 2 years <p> This cookie is installed by Google Analytics . <p> gatUA-10686674-1 <p> 1 minute <p> This is a pattern type cookie set by Google Analytics , where the pattern element on the name contains the unique identity number of the account or website it relates to . It appears to be a variation of the gat cookie which is used to limit the amount of data recorded by Google on high traffic volume websites . <p> gid <p> 1 day <p> This cookie is installed by Google Analytics . The cookie is used to store information of how visitors use a website and helps in creating an analytics report of how the website is doing . The data collected including the number visitors , the source where they have come from , and the pages visted in an anonymous form . <p> ajsanonymousid <p> never <p> This cookie is set by Segment.io to check the number of ew and returning visitors to the website . <p> ajsuserid <p> never <p> The cookie is set by Segment.io and is used to analyze how you use the website <p> ANONID <p> 3 months <p> This cookie is provided by Tribalfusion . The cookie is used to give a unique number to visitors , and collects data on user behaviour like what page have been visited . This cookie also helps to understand which sale has been generated by as a result of the advertisement served by third party . <p> jamheavygasession <p> 5 years <p> This cookie is installed by Google Analytics . <p> UserID1 <p> 3 months <p> The cookie sets a unique anonymous ID for a website visitor . This ID is used to continue to identify users across different sessions and track their activities on the website . The data collected is used for analysis . <p> uvc <p> 1 year 1 month <p> The cookie is set by addthis.com to determine the usage of Addthis.com service . <p> Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns . These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads . <p> Cookie <p> Duration <p> Description <p> tbc <p> 2 years <p> This cookie is used for measuring the efficiency of advertisement by registering data on visitors from multiple website . <p> ccaud <p> 8 months 26 days <p> The cookie is set by crwdcntrl.net . The purpose of the cookie is to collect statistical information in an anonymous form about the visitors of the website . The data collected include number of visits , average time spent on the website , and the what pages have been loaded . These data are then used to segment audiences based on the geographical location , demographic , and user interest provide relevant content and for advertisers for targeted advertising . <p> cccc <p> session <p> The cookie is set by crwdcntrl.net . The purpose of the cookie is to collect statistical information in an anonymous form about the visitors of the website . The data collected include number of visits , average time spent on the website , and the what pages have been loaded . These data are then used to segment audiences based on the geographical location , demographic , and user interest provide relevant content and for advertisers for targeted advertising . <p> ccdc <p> 8 months 26 days <p> The cookie is set by crwdcntrl.net . The purpose of the cookie is to collect statistical information in an anonymous form about the visitors of the website . The data collected include number of visits , average time spent on the website , and the what pages have been loaded . These data are then used to segment audiences based on the geographical location , demographic , and user interest provide relevant content and for advertisers for targeted advertising . <p> ccid <p> 8 months 26 days <p> The cookie is set by crwdcntrl.net . The purpose of the cookie is to collect statistical information in an anonymous form about the visitors of the website . The data collected include number of visits , average time spent on the website , and the what pages have been loaded . These data are then used to segment audiences based on the geographical location , demographic , and user interest provide relevant content and for advertisers for targeted advertising . <p> kuid <p> 5 months 27 days <p> The cookie is set by Krux Digital under the domain krxd.net . The cookie stores a unique ID to identify a returning user for the purpose of targeted advertising . <p> rxuuid <p> 1 year <p> The main purpose of this cookie is targeting , advertesing and effective marketing . This cookie is used to set a unique ID to the visitors , which allow third party advertisers to target the visitors with relevant advertisement up to 1 year . <p> ANONIDold <p> 3 months <p> This cookie helps to categorise the users interest and to create profiles in terms of resales of targeted marketing . This cookie is used to collect user information such as what pages have been viewed on the website for creating profiles . <p> bscookie <p> 2 years <p> This cookie is a browser ID cookie set by Linked share Buttons and ad tags . <p> CMID <p> 1 year <p> The cookie is set by CasaleMedia . The cookie is used to collect information about the usage behavior for targeted advertising . <p> CMPRO <p> 3 months <p> This cookie is set by Casalemedia and is used for targeted advertisement purposes . <p> CMPS <p> 3 months <p> This cookie is set by Casalemedia and is used for targeted advertisement purposes . <p> CMST <p> 1 day <p> The cookie is set by CasaleMedia . The cookie is used to collect information about the usage behavior for targeted advertising . <p> DSID <p> 1 hour <p> This cookie is setup by doubleclick.net . This cookie is used by Google to make advertising more engaging to users and are stored under doubleclick.net . It contains an encrypted unique ID . <p> googlepush <p> 5 minutes <p> This cookie is set by the Bidswitch . This cookie is used to collect statistical data related to the user website visit such as the number of visits , average time spent on the website and what pages have been loaded . This collected information is used to sort out the users based on demographics and geographical locations inorder to serve them with relevant online advertising . <p> i <p> 1 year <p> The purpose of the cookie is not known yet . <p> id <p> 3 months <p> The main purpose of this cookie is targeting and advertising . It is used to create a profile of the user 's interest and to show relevant ads on their site . This Cookie is set by DoubleClick which is owned by Google . <p> IDE <p> 1 year 24 days <p> Used by Google DoubleClick and stores information about how the user uses the website and any other advertisement before visiting the website . This is used to present users with ads that are relevant to them according to the user profile . <p> IDSYNC <p> 1 year <p> This cookie is used for advertising purposes . <p> KADUSERCOOKIE <p> 3 months <p> The cookie is set by pubmatic.com for identifying the visitors ' website or device from which they visit PubMatic 's partners ' website . <p> KTPCACOOKIE <p> 1 day <p> This cookie is set by pubmatic.com for the purpose of checking if third-party cookies are enabled on the user 's website . <p> ljtreader <p> 1 year <p> This is a Lijit Advertising Platform cookie . The cookie is used for recognizing the browser or device when users return to their site or one of their partner 's site . <p> loc <p> 1 year 1 month <p> This cookie is set by Addthis . This is a geolocation cookie to understand where the users sharing the information are located . <p> mc <p> 1 year 1 month <p> This cookie is associated with Quantserve to track anonymously how a user interact with the website . <p> mtmop <p> 1 month <p> Stores information about how the user uses the website such as what pages have been loaded and any other advertisement before visiting the website for the purpose of targeted advertisements . <p> personalizationid <p> 2 years <p> This cookie is set by twitter.com . It is used integrate the sharing features of this social media . It also stores information about how the user uses the website for tracking and targeting . <p> suidlegacy <p> 1 year <p> This cookie is used to collect information on user preference and interactioin with the website campaign content . This cookie is used for promoting events and products by the webiste owners on CRM-campaign-platform . <p> TDCPM <p> 1 year <p> The cookie is set by CloudFlare service to store a unique ID to identify a returning users device which then is used for targeted advertising . <p> TDID <p> 1 year <p> The cookie is set by CloudFlare service to store a unique ID to identify a returning users device which then is used for targeted advertising . <p> testcookie <p> 15 minutes <p> This cookie is set by doubleclick.net . The purpose of the cookie is to determine if the user 's browser supports cookies . <p> tluid <p> 3 months <p> This cookie is set by the provider AdRoll.This cookie is used to identify the visitor and to serve them with relevant ads by collecting user behaviour from multiple websites . <p> tuuid <p> 1 year <p> This cookie is set by . bidswitch.net . The cookies stores a unique ID for the purpose of the determining what adverts the users have seen if you have visited any of the advertisers website . The information is used for determining when and how often users will see a certain banner . <p> tuuidlu <p> 1 year <p> This cookie is set by . bidswitch.net . The cookies stores a unique ID for the purpose of the determining what adverts the users have seen if you have visited any of the advertisers website . The information is used for determining when and how often users will see a certain banner . <p> uid <p> 5 months 27 days <p> This cookie is used to measure the number and behavior of the visitors to the website anonymously . The data includes the number of visits , average duration of the visit on the website , pages visited , etc. for the purpose of better understanding user preferences for targeted advertisments . <p> uuid <p> 1 year 27 days <p> To optimize ad relevance by collecting visitor data from multiple websites such as what pages have been loaded . <p> VISITORINFO1LIVE <p> 5 months 27 days <p> This cookie is set by Youtube . Used to track the information of the embedded YouTube videos on a website . <p> wfivefivec <p> 1 year 1 month <p> The domain of this cookie is owned by Dataxu . The main business activity of this cookie is targeting and advertising . This cookie tracks the advertisement report which helps us to improve the marketing activity . <p> xbc <p> 2 years <p> This cookie is used for optmizing the advertisement on the website more relevant by analysing the user behaviour and interaction with the website . <p> YSC <p> session <p> This cookies is set by Youtube and is used to track the views of embedded videos .
