@@91317251 <p> RAMALLAH ( Reuters ) - The Palestinian Authority is hoping to engage with Saudi Arabia to discuss their concerns over a potential agreement normalising relations with Israel , Palestinian Foreign Minister Riyad al-Maliki said on Thursday . <p> U.S. President Joe Biden said last week a rapprochement between Saudi Arabia and Israel " may be under way " following months of efforts by U.S. officials to broker an agreement between the two longstanding adversaries . <p> Officials from all three countries have said any agreement would be some way off , with complex issues remaining to be resolved , including the tense situation in the occupied West Bank and a potential development of civilian nuclear power by Saudi Arabia . <p> But the speculation has caused concern among Palestinians that any agreement would further weaken support for their cause in the wider Arab world and undermine hopes of an independent Palestinian state . <p> " What we have read from the news items ( is ) that Saudi has put different conditions regarding normalisation , " Al-Maliki told a news conference in Ramallah . " One of these conditions is really the end of the Israeli occupation and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " If that 's really the case , then that 's really very important , " he said . " I hope that the Saudis will stick to that position and not to yield to any kind pressure , intimidation coming from the Biden administration or any other power . " <p> He said Saudi Arabia had shown an interest in reviving an Arab-led peace process . <p> " But of course we would like very much to listen to the Saudis , to coordinate with the Saudis , " he said . The Saudis " could also hear from us about the steps that they should really undertake as necessary steps in order for the issue of Palestine to be resolved . " <p> Saudi Arabia , Islam 's birthplace , has long championed the Palestinian cause and shunned official contacts with Israel but it has quietly accepted the so-called Abraham Accords between Israel and the United Arab Emirates . <p> Al-Maliki said the Palestinian leadership had been " disappointed " by the Biden administration , which he said had failed to live up to its promises to reverse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.S. policy and recognise Jerusalem as Israel 's capital . <p> " What does that tell you ? It tells you that their priority is not us . " <p> ( Reporting by James Mackenzie , Ali Sawafta ; editing by Giles Elgood ) <h> Recommended Stories <p> A Tunisian singer who rose to prominence during the Arab Spring revolution in her homeland announced Wednesday an upcoming show in Tunisia had been cancelled for supposed " normalisation " with Israel . " They believe that going to Palestine anywhere is normalisation , " the singer told AFP . Her concerts were " in no conflict " either with BDS guidelines or those from the Palestinian Campaign for the Academic and Cultural Boycott of Israel , her Instagram statement said . <p> While some Wall Street watchers have had their doubts about Elon Musk and Tesla , the electric vehicle pioneer has ridden that skepticism to stock price highs in the past . Tesla Vs . BYD 2023 : Tesla Forges Buy Point With BYD Breaking Out Tesla Stock Pulls Back And This Market Wizard Is Worried Now he is embracing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blazing summer sun beats down on Kuwait , shoppers stroll down a promenade lined with palm trees and European-style boutiques , all without breaking a sweat.Outside of the state institutions , some Kuwaiti citizens have launched grassroot initiatives , including tree-planting to help cool sun-baked urban environments . <p> GAZA ( Reuters ) -U.S. passport holders with Palestinian papers and families in Gaza are urging Washington to ensure they are treated equally under a reciprocal deal with Israel intended to insure visa-free travel for American and Israeli citizens . Israel , facing a Sept. 30 deadline to qualify its citizens for visa-free admission to the United States , said it has loosened access through its main airport and at the occupied West Bank 's boundary for Palestinian Americans , allowing more than 2,000 people to cross into or through Israel . U.S. State Department officials have said the Visa Waiver Program must apply to all American citizens , including those in Gaza , but a number of Palestinian Americans with Gaza identity papers have said they have been prevented from entering Israel . <p> Refining rare earths for the green @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lynas . The world 's two biggest rare earths companies outside of China are facing challenges turning rock from their mines into the building blocks for magnets used across the global economy , from Apple 's iPhone to Tesla 's Model 3 to Lockheed Martin 's F-35 fighter jet . <p> On March 30 , when Donald Trump was indicted over a hush-money payment to a porn star , he already owned the narrative . Four weeks earlier , anticipating the indictment was near , the former president dictated notes to aides for a pugnacious speech - one that would ultimately help reignite his political fortunes , pull away from Republican rival Ron DeSantis and redraw the 2024 race for the White House . Trump spoke to speechwriters Ross Worthington and Vince Haley on the phone , according to an aide who was also on the call , telling them he wanted to stress two points in his speech : that he was the victim of a two-tiered justice system in which only Republicans were targeted for prosecution ; and he was the one person protecting his supporters from being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weighing sales of government stakes in some of the nation 's biggest companies to fund expanding defense costs . But doing so wo n't be easy , given the need to reach a consensus within the government , and a requirement to change laws in some cases.Most Read from BloombergTreasury Rout Unnerves Traders as Stocks Retreat : Markets WrapFitch 's US Credit Downgrade Sparks Criticism Along With UneaseCanada PM Justin Trudeau Splits With Wife Sophie GregoireS&amp;P 500 Has <p> MIAMI GARDENS -- As the Miami Dolphins close in on holding a scrimmage Saturday at Hard Rock Stadium to wrap up a second week of training camp , coach Mike McDaniel will have an eye on his quarterbacks . At the top of the depth chart , with Tua Tagovailoa , McDaniel does n't necessarily need to learn much about his play after their 2022 season together , but he will get a chance to see a number of ... <p> A law enacted in the aftermath of the U.S. Civil War to protect the rights of Black people factors into the charges brought against former President Donald Trump on Tuesday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ front-runner for the 2024 Republican nomination , was charged with conspiring to deprive voters of their right to a fair election and defraud the U.S. by blocking Congress from certifying President Joe Biden 's victory . Federal prosecutors base one charge , conspiring to deprive citizens of constitutional or legal rights , on a law enacted during post-Civil War Reconstruction in 1870 , when federal lawmakers sought to integrate into society enslaved people who had been freed . <p> ( Reuters ) -Moderna Inc on Thursday forecast as much as $4 billion in revenue from its COVID-19 vaccine when sales shift to a private market from government contracts this year , and said it expects demand to grow further in 2024 and match the market for flu shots . The vaccine maker anticipates $4 billion in sales to governments this year , and between $2 and $4 billion in a private market for the shot in the United States and other countries . It had previously expected sales of $5 billion from government contracts . <p> Gaza residents took their seats in front of a large projector screen set up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Islamist-ruled blockaded enclave that has no operating cinemas.In 1996 , Islamists set a Gaza cinema ablaze . <p> Editor 's note : This story has been updated to reflect that Scott Brown is a former senator from Massachusetts . Florida Gov . Ron DeSantis ( R ) on Sunday said he would " start slitting throats on day one " when it comes to taking on the " deep state . " DeSantis made the remarks at a barbecue campaign event in Rye , N.H. , ... 
@@91345654 <p> The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting . Founded in 1846 , AP today remains the most trusted source of fast , accurate , unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business . More than half the world 's population sees AP journalism every day . <h> Hip-hop turns 50 , reinventing itself and swaths of the world along the way <p> 1 of 17 <p> Breakdancer Victor Montalvo , 27 , of Kissimmee , Fla. , performs in New York City on June 22 , 2021 . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . And at each step there 's been change and adaptation , as new , different voices came in and made it their own . Its foundations are steeped in the Black communities where it first made itself known but it 's spread out until there 's no corner of the world that has n't been touched by it . ( AP Photo/Ted Shaffrey ) <p> 2 of 17 <p> A street sign at Bronx 's Sedgwick Houses apartments is shown renamed as Hip Hop Blvd , recognizing the site where hip hop 's creator DJ Kool Herc first held parties featuring his new sound , July 26 , 2023 , in New York . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . And at each step there 's been change and adaptation , as new , different voices came in and made it their own . Its foundations are steeped in the Black communities where it first made itself known but it 's spread out until there 's no corner of the world that has n't been touched by it . Hip-hop has impacted everything : Art , culture , fashion , community , social justice , politics , sports , business . This year is being marked as a 50th anniversary celebration . ( AP Photo/Bebeto Matthews ) <p> 3 of 17 <p> FILE - DJ Kool Herc speaks at a news conference to launch " Hip-Hop Wo n't Stop : The Beat , The Rhymes , The Life , " the first ever hip-hop initiative at the Smithsonian 's National Museum of American History in New York , Feb. 28 , 2006 . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . Those looking for a hip-hop starting point have landed on one , turning this year into a 50th-birthday celebration . Aug. 11 , 1973 was the date a young Clive Campbell , known as DJ Kool Herc around his Bronx stomping grounds , deejayed a back-to-school party for his younger sister in the community room of an apartment building on Sedgwick Avenue . ( AP Photo/Henny Ray Abrams , file ) <p> 4 of 17 <p> A subway train is adorned with various words from un authorized writers July 22 , 1972 in New York . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . And at each step there 's been change and adaptation , as new , different voices came in and made it their own . Its foundations are steeped in the Black communities where it first made itself known but it 's spread out until there 's no corner of the world that has n't been touched by it . ( AP Photo/Jim Wells , file ) <p> 5 of 17 <p> FILE - Hendogg from The Sugarhill Gang , left , Grandmaster Dee of Whodini , center , and Michael " Wonder Mike " Wright of The Sugarhill Gang , pose for a photo on Capitol Hill in Washington , June 11 , 2008 . Members of The Sugarhill Gang put out " Rapper 's Delight " and introduced the country to a record that would reach as high as 36 on Billboard 's Top 100 chart list , and even make it to No. 1 in some European countries . Wright says he had no doubt the song -- and , by extension , hip-hop -- was " going to be big . " I knew it was going to blow up and play all over the world because it was a new genre of music , " he tells The Associated Press . " You had classical jazz , bebop , rock , pop , and here comes a new form of music that did n't exist . " ( AP Photo/Susan Walsh ) <p> 6 of 17 <p> FILE - A demolition crew takes down an address sign from the Sugar Hill Studio recording studio in Englewood , N.J. , Oct. 14 , 2002 . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . And at each step there 's been change and adaptation , as new , different voices came in and made it their own . Among those who started to hear about it were some young men across the river in Englewood , New Jersey , who started making up rhymes to go along with the beats . In 1979 , they auditioned as rappers for Sylvia Robinson , a singer turned music producer who co-founded Sugar Hill Records . As The Sugarhill Gang , they put out " Rapper 's Delight " and introduced the country to a record that would reach as high as 36 on Billboard 's Top 100 chart list , and even make it to No. 1 in some European countries . ( AP Photo/Mike Derer , file ) <p> 7 of 17 <p> FILE - Grandmaster Flash ( at podium ) &amp; the Furious Five accept their award for being inducted into the Rock &amp; Roll Hall of Fame during ceremonies in New York , March 12 , 2007 . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . And at each step there 's been change and adaptation , as new , different voices came in and made it their own . Coming from America 's Black communities , it has meant hip-hop has been a tool to speak out against injustice , like in 1982 when Grandmaster Flash and the Furious Five told the world in " The Message , " that the stresses of poverty in their city neighborhoods made it feel " like a jungle sometimes/It makes me wonder how I keep from goin ' under . " ( AP Photo/Seth Wenig , file ) <p> 8 of 17 <p> Roxanne Shante poses for a portrait on July 18 , 2023 , in New York . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . And at each step there 's been change and adaptation , as new , different voices came in and made it their own . Its foundations are steeped in the Black communities where it first made itself known but it 's spread out until there 's no corner of the world that has n't been touched by it . Shante , a native of New York City 's Queens borough who was only 14 years old in 1984 . That was the year she became one of the first female MCs , those rhyming over the beat , to gain a wider audience -- and was part of what was likely the first well-known instance of rappers using their song tracks to take sonic shots at other rappers , in a back-and-forth song battle known as The Roxanne Wars . " When I look at my female rappers of today , I see hope and inspiration , " Shante says . ( Photo by Matt Licari/Invision/AP ) <p> 9 of 17 <p> Flavor Flav , left , and Chuck D of the rap group Public Enemy , pose for photographers upon their arrival for the MTV Music Awards at New York 's Radio City Music Hall , Sept. 8 , 1994 . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . And at each step there 's been change and adaptation , as new , different voices came in and made it their own . Its foundations are steeped in the Black communities where it first made itself known but it 's spread out until there 's no corner of the world that has n't been touched by it . Public Enemy 's " Fight the Power " became an anthem when it was created for filmmaker Spike Lee 's 1989 classic " Do the Right Thing , " which chronicled racial tension in a Brooklyn neighborhood . ( AP Photo/Malcolm Clarke ) <p> 10 of 17 <p> FILE - Luther Campbell , leader of hip hop group of 2 Live Crew , right , holds a copy of a federal judge 's order ruling his best-selling album obscene , outside of the federal courthouse in Fort Lauderdale , Fla. , June 6 , 1990 . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it spread around the country and the world . Mainstream America has n't always been ready for it . The sexually explicit content from 2 Live Crew made their 1989 album " As Nasty As They Want To Be " the subject of a legal battle over obscenity and freedom of expression ; a later album , " Banned in the USA , " became the first to get an official record industry label about explicit content . ( AP Photo/Bill Cooke , file ) <p> 11 of 17 <p> In this photo taken July 22 , 2010 , Palestinian members of the Camps Breakerz breakdancing troupe performance at a children 's center in Gaza City . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . And at each step there 's been change and adaptation , as new , different voices came in and made it their own . Its foundations are steeped in the Black communities where it first made itself known but it 's spread out until there 's no corner of the world that has n't been touched by it . ( AP Photo/Tara Todras-Whitehill , file ) <p> 12 of 17 <p> In this photo taken Tuesday , April 19 , 2011 , Youssef al-Briki , 24 , a.k.a . SWAT , center , Mohammed al-Yemeni , 24 , a.k.a . Migo , far left , and other members of the Revolution Beat rap group hang out next to a banner of Libya 's legendary anti-Italian fighter Omar al-Mukhtar , in their makeshift studio in a room of the media center in Benghazi , Libya.In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . And at each step there 's been change and adaptation , as new , different voices came in and made it their own . Its foundations are steeped in the Black communities where it first made itself known but it 's spread out until there 's no corner of the world that has n't been touched by it . ( AP Photo/Ben Curtis , file ) <p> 13 of 17 <p> Drake performs in concert as part of the Summer Sixteen Tour at Madison Square Garden on Aug. 5 , 2016 , in New York . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . And at each step there 's been change and adaptation , as new , different voices came in and made it their own . Its foundations are steeped in the Black communities where it first made itself known but it 's spread out until there 's no corner of the world that has n't been touched by it . Hip-hop has impacted everything : Art , culture , fashion , community , social justice , politics , sports , business . This year is being marked as a 50th anniversary celebration . ( Photo by Charles Sykes/Invision/AP ) <p> 14 of 17 <p> FILE - In this April 8 , 2016 , file photo , inductees MC Ren , from left , Dr. Dre , Ice Cube and DJ Yella from N.W.A appear at the 31st Annual Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Induction Ceremony at the Barclays Center in New York . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . And at each step there 's been change and adaptation , as new , different voices came in and made it their own . Some in hip-hop pulled no punches , using the art form and the culture as a no-holds-barred way of showcasing the troubles of their lives . Often those messages have been met with fear or disdain in the mainstream . When N.W.A. came " Straight Outta Compton " in 1988 with loud , brash tales of police abuse and gang life , radio stations recoiled . ( Photo by Charles Sykes/Invision/AP , File ) <p> 15 of 17 <p> FILE - In this June 12 , 2016 file photo , Lin-Manuel Miranda and the cast of " Hamilton " perform at the Tony Awards in New York . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . And at each step there 's been change and adaptation , as new , different voices came in and made it their own . Its foundations are steeped in the Black communities where it first made itself known but it 's spread out until there 's no corner of the world that has n't been touched by it . Miranda 's groundbreaking musical about a distant white historical figure that came to life in the rhythms of its hip-hop soundtrack , brought a different energy and audience to the theater world . ( Photo by Evan Agostini/Invision/AP , File ) <p> 16 of 17 <p> FILE - Guitarist Nile Rodgers of Chic performs at the Jazz Festival of 5 Continents , in Marseille , southern France , July 20 , 2013 . Hip-hop is , simply , " a magical art form , " says Rodgers , legendary musician , composer and record producer . He would know . It was his song " Good Times , " with the band Chic , that was recreated to form the basis for " Rapper 's Delight " all those years ago . " The impact that it 's had on the world , it really ca n't be quantified , " Rodgers says . " You can find someone in a village that you 've never been to , a country that you 've never been to , and all of a sudden you hear its own local hip-hop . And you do n't even know who these people are , but they 've adopted it and have made it their own . " ( AP Photo/Claude Paris , file ) <p> 17 of 17 <p> From left , DJ T Dynasty , Wonder Mike , Master Gee , Leland Robinson of Sugar Hill Records , son of Sylvia Robinson , Hen Dogg pose for a photograph in Englewood , N.J. , Friday , May 5 , 2023 . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . Among those who started to hear about it were some these men across the river in Englewood , N.J. , who started making up rhymes to go along with the beats . In 1979 , they auditioned as rappers for Sugar Hill Records . As The Sugarhill Gang , they put out " Rapper 's Delight " and introduced the country to a record that would reach as high as 36 on Billboard 's Top 100 chart list , and even make it to No. 1 in some European countries . ( AP Photo/Noreen Nasir ) <p> Hip-hop turns 50 , reinventing itself and swaths of the world along the way <p> 1 of 17 <p> Breakdancer Victor Montalvo , 27 , of Kissimmee , Fla. , performs in New York City on June 22 , 2021 . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . And at each step there 's been change and adaptation , as new , different voices came in and made it their own . Its foundations are steeped in the Black communities where it first made itself known but it 's spread out until there 's no corner of the world that has n't been touched by it . ( AP Photo/Ted Shaffrey ) <p> 1 of 17 <p> Breakdancer Victor Montalvo , 27 , of Kissimmee , Fla. , performs in New York City on June 22 , 2021 . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . And at each step there 's been change and adaptation , as new , different voices came in and made it their own . Its foundations are steeped in the Black communities where it first made itself known but it 's spread out until there 's no corner of the world that has n't been touched by it . ( AP Photo/Ted Shaffrey ) <p> A street sign at Bronx 's Sedgwick Houses apartments is shown renamed as Hip Hop Blvd , recognizing the site where hip hop 's creator DJ Kool Herc first held parties featuring his new sound , July 26 , 2023 , in New York . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . And at each step there 's been change and adaptation , as new , different voices came in and made it their own . Its foundations are steeped in the Black communities where it first made itself known but it 's spread out until there 's no corner of the world that has n't been touched by it . Hip-hop has impacted everything : Art , culture , fashion , community , social justice , politics , sports , business . This year is being marked as a 50th anniversary celebration . ( AP Photo/Bebeto Matthews ) <p> 2 of 17 <p> A street sign at Bronx 's Sedgwick Houses apartments is shown renamed as Hip Hop Blvd , recognizing the site where hip hop 's creator DJ Kool Herc first held parties featuring his new sound , July 26 , 2023 , in New York . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . And at each step there 's been change and adaptation , as new , different voices came in and made it their own . Its foundations are steeped in the Black communities where it first made itself known but it 's spread out until there 's no corner of the world that has n't been touched by it . Hip-hop has impacted everything : Art , culture , fashion , community , social justice , politics , sports , business . This year is being marked as a 50th anniversary celebration . ( AP Photo/Bebeto Matthews ) <p> FILE - DJ Kool Herc speaks at a news conference to launch " Hip-Hop Wo n't Stop : The Beat , The Rhymes , The Life , " the first ever hip-hop initiative at the Smithsonian 's National Museum of American History in New York , Feb. 28 , 2006 . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . Those looking for a hip-hop starting point have landed on one , turning this year into a 50th-birthday celebration . Aug. 11 , 1973 was the date a young Clive Campbell , known as DJ Kool Herc around his Bronx stomping grounds , deejayed a back-to-school party for his younger sister in the community room of an apartment building on Sedgwick Avenue . ( AP Photo/Henny Ray Abrams , file ) <p> 3 of 17 <p> FILE - DJ Kool Herc speaks at a news conference to launch " Hip-Hop Wo n't Stop : The Beat , The Rhymes , The Life , " the first ever hip-hop initiative at the Smithsonian 's National Museum of American History in New York , Feb. 28 , 2006 . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . Those looking for a hip-hop starting point have landed on one , turning this year into a 50th-birthday celebration . Aug. 11 , 1973 was the date a young Clive Campbell , known as DJ Kool Herc around his Bronx stomping grounds , deejayed a back-to-school party for his younger sister in the community room of an apartment building on Sedgwick Avenue . ( AP Photo/Henny Ray Abrams , file ) <p> A subway train is adorned with various words from un authorized writers July 22 , 1972 in New York . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . And at each step there 's been change and adaptation , as new , different voices came in and made it their own . Its foundations are steeped in the Black communities where it first made itself known but it 's spread out until there 's no corner of the world that has n't been touched by it . ( AP Photo/Jim Wells , file ) <p> 4 of 17 <p> A subway train is adorned with various words from un authorized writers July 22 , 1972 in New York . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . And at each step there 's been change and adaptation , as new , different voices came in and made it their own . Its foundations are steeped in the Black communities where it first made itself known but it 's spread out until there 's no corner of the world that has n't been touched by it . ( AP Photo/Jim Wells , file ) <p> FILE - Hendogg from The Sugarhill Gang , left , Grandmaster Dee of Whodini , center , and Michael " Wonder Mike " Wright of The Sugarhill Gang , pose for a photo on Capitol Hill in Washington , June 11 , 2008 . Members of The Sugarhill Gang put out " Rapper 's Delight " and introduced the country to a record that would reach as high as 36 on Billboard 's Top 100 chart list , and even make it to No. 1 in some European countries . Wright says he had no doubt the song -- and , by extension , hip-hop -- was " going to be big . " I knew it was going to blow up and play all over the world because it was a new genre of music , " he tells The Associated Press . " You had classical jazz , bebop , rock , pop , and here comes a new form of music that did n't exist . " ( AP Photo/Susan Walsh ) <p> 5 of 17 <p> FILE - Hendogg from The Sugarhill Gang , left , Grandmaster Dee of Whodini , center , and Michael " Wonder Mike " Wright of The Sugarhill Gang , pose for a photo on Capitol Hill in Washington , June 11 , 2008 . Members of The Sugarhill Gang put out " Rapper 's Delight " and introduced the country to a record that would reach as high as 36 on Billboard 's Top 100 chart list , and even make it to No. 1 in some European countries . Wright says he had no doubt the song -- and , by extension , hip-hop -- was " going to be big . " I knew it was going to blow up and play all over the world because it was a new genre of music , " he tells The Associated Press . " You had classical jazz , bebop , rock , pop , and here comes a new form of music that did n't exist . " ( AP Photo/Susan Walsh ) <p> FILE - A demolition crew takes down an address sign from the Sugar Hill Studio recording studio in Englewood , N.J. , Oct. 14 , 2002 . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . And at each step there 's been change and adaptation , as new , different voices came in and made it their own . Among those who started to hear about it were some young men across the river in Englewood , New Jersey , who started making up rhymes to go along with the beats . In 1979 , they auditioned as rappers for Sylvia Robinson , a singer turned music producer who co-founded Sugar Hill Records . As The Sugarhill Gang , they put out " Rapper 's Delight " and introduced the country to a record that would reach as high as 36 on Billboard 's Top 100 chart list , and even make it to No. 1 in some European countries . ( AP Photo/Mike Derer , file ) <p> 6 of 17 <p> FILE - A demolition crew takes down an address sign from the Sugar Hill Studio recording studio in Englewood , N.J. , Oct. 14 , 2002 . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . And at each step there 's been change and adaptation , as new , different voices came in and made it their own . Among those who started to hear about it were some young men across the river in Englewood , New Jersey , who started making up rhymes to go along with the beats . In 1979 , they auditioned as rappers for Sylvia Robinson , a singer turned music producer who co-founded Sugar Hill Records . As The Sugarhill Gang , they put out " Rapper 's Delight " and introduced the country to a record that would reach as high as 36 on Billboard 's Top 100 chart list , and even make it to No. 1 in some European countries . ( AP Photo/Mike Derer , file ) <p> FILE - Grandmaster Flash ( at podium ) &amp; the Furious Five accept their award for being inducted into the Rock &amp; Roll Hall of Fame during ceremonies in New York , March 12 , 2007 . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . And at each step there 's been change and adaptation , as new , different voices came in and made it their own . Coming from America 's Black communities , it has meant hip-hop has been a tool to speak out against injustice , like in 1982 when Grandmaster Flash and the Furious Five told the world in " The Message , " that the stresses of poverty in their city neighborhoods made it feel " like a jungle sometimes/It makes me wonder how I keep from goin ' under . " ( AP Photo/Seth Wenig , file ) <p> 7 of 17 <p> FILE - Grandmaster Flash ( at podium ) &amp; the Furious Five accept their award for being inducted into the Rock &amp; Roll Hall of Fame during ceremonies in New York , March 12 , 2007 . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . And at each step there 's been change and adaptation , as new , different voices came in and made it their own . Coming from America 's Black communities , it has meant hip-hop has been a tool to speak out against injustice , like in 1982 when Grandmaster Flash and the Furious Five told the world in " The Message , " that the stresses of poverty in their city neighborhoods made it feel " like a jungle sometimes/It makes me wonder how I keep from goin ' under . " ( AP Photo/Seth Wenig , file ) <p> Roxanne Shante poses for a portrait on July 18 , 2023 , in New York . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . And at each step there 's been change and adaptation , as new , different voices came in and made it their own . Its foundations are steeped in the Black communities where it first made itself known but it 's spread out until there 's no corner of the world that has n't been touched by it . Shante , a native of New York City 's Queens borough who was only 14 years old in 1984 . That was the year she became one of the first female MCs , those rhyming over the beat , to gain a wider audience -- and was part of what was likely the first well-known instance of rappers using their song tracks to take sonic shots at other rappers , in a back-and-forth song battle known as The Roxanne Wars . " When I look at my female rappers of today , I see hope and inspiration , " Shante says . ( Photo by Matt Licari/Invision/AP ) <p> 8 of 17 <p> Roxanne Shante poses for a portrait on July 18 , 2023 , in New York . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . And at each step there 's been change and adaptation , as new , different voices came in and made it their own . Its foundations are steeped in the Black communities where it first made itself known but it 's spread out until there 's no corner of the world that has n't been touched by it . Shante , a native of New York City 's Queens borough who was only 14 years old in 1984 . That was the year she became one of the first female MCs , those rhyming over the beat , to gain a wider audience -- and was part of what was likely the first well-known instance of rappers using their song tracks to take sonic shots at other rappers , in a back-and-forth song battle known as The Roxanne Wars . " When I look at my female rappers of today , I see hope and inspiration , " Shante says . ( Photo by Matt Licari/Invision/AP ) <p> Flavor Flav , left , and Chuck D of the rap group Public Enemy , pose for photographers upon their arrival for the MTV Music Awards at New York 's Radio City Music Hall , Sept. 8 , 1994 . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . And at each step there 's been change and adaptation , as new , different voices came in and made it their own . Its foundations are steeped in the Black communities where it first made itself known but it 's spread out until there 's no corner of the world that has n't been touched by it . Public Enemy 's " Fight the Power " became an anthem when it was created for filmmaker Spike Lee 's 1989 classic " Do the Right Thing , " which chronicled racial tension in a Brooklyn neighborhood . ( AP Photo/Malcolm Clarke ) <p> 9 of 17 <p> Flavor Flav , left , and Chuck D of the rap group Public Enemy , pose for photographers upon their arrival for the MTV Music Awards at New York 's Radio City Music Hall , Sept. 8 , 1994 . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . And at each step there 's been change and adaptation , as new , different voices came in and made it their own . Its foundations are steeped in the Black communities where it first made itself known but it 's spread out until there 's no corner of the world that has n't been touched by it . Public Enemy 's " Fight the Power " became an anthem when it was created for filmmaker Spike Lee 's 1989 classic " Do the Right Thing , " which chronicled racial tension in a Brooklyn neighborhood . ( AP Photo/Malcolm Clarke ) <p> FILE - Luther Campbell , leader of hip hop group of 2 Live Crew , right , holds a copy of a federal judge 's order ruling his best-selling album obscene , outside of the federal courthouse in Fort Lauderdale , Fla. , June 6 , 1990 . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it spread around the country and the world . Mainstream America has n't always been ready for it . The sexually explicit content from 2 Live Crew made their 1989 album " As Nasty As They Want To Be " the subject of a legal battle over obscenity and freedom of expression ; a later album , " Banned in the USA , " became the first to get an official record industry label about explicit content . ( AP Photo/Bill Cooke , file ) <p> 10 of 17 <p> FILE - Luther Campbell , leader of hip hop group of 2 Live Crew , right , holds a copy of a federal judge 's order ruling his best-selling album obscene , outside of the federal courthouse in Fort Lauderdale , Fla. , June 6 , 1990 . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it spread around the country and the world . Mainstream America has n't always been ready for it . The sexually explicit content from 2 Live Crew made their 1989 album " As Nasty As They Want To Be " the subject of a legal battle over obscenity and freedom of expression ; a later album , " Banned in the USA , " became the first to get an official record industry label about explicit content . ( AP Photo/Bill Cooke , file ) <p> In this photo taken July 22 , 2010 , Palestinian members of the Camps Breakerz breakdancing troupe performance at a children 's center in Gaza City . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . And at each step there 's been change and adaptation , as new , different voices came in and made it their own . Its foundations are steeped in the Black communities where it first made itself known but it 's spread out until there 's no corner of the world that has n't been touched by it . ( AP Photo/Tara Todras-Whitehill , file ) <p> 11 of 17 <p> In this photo taken July 22 , 2010 , Palestinian members of the Camps Breakerz breakdancing troupe performance at a children 's center in Gaza City . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . And at each step there 's been change and adaptation , as new , different voices came in and made it their own . Its foundations are steeped in the Black communities where it first made itself known but it 's spread out until there 's no corner of the world that has n't been touched by it . ( AP Photo/Tara Todras-Whitehill , file ) <p> In this photo taken Tuesday , April 19 , 2011 , Youssef al-Briki , 24 , a.k.a . SWAT , center , Mohammed al-Yemeni , 24 , a.k.a . Migo , far left , and other members of the Revolution Beat rap group hang out next to a banner of Libya 's legendary anti-Italian fighter Omar al-Mukhtar , in their makeshift studio in a room of the media center in Benghazi , Libya.In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . And at each step there 's been change and adaptation , as new , different voices came in and made it their own . Its foundations are steeped in the Black communities where it first made itself known but it 's spread out until there 's no corner of the world that has n't been touched by it . ( AP Photo/Ben Curtis , file ) <p> 12 of 17 <p> In this photo taken Tuesday , April 19 , 2011 , Youssef al-Briki , 24 , a.k.a . SWAT , center , Mohammed al-Yemeni , 24 , a.k.a . Migo , far left , and other members of the Revolution Beat rap group hang out next to a banner of Libya 's legendary anti-Italian fighter Omar al-Mukhtar , in their makeshift studio in a room of the media center in Benghazi , Libya.In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . And at each step there 's been change and adaptation , as new , different voices came in and made it their own . Its foundations are steeped in the Black communities where it first made itself known but it 's spread out until there 's no corner of the world that has n't been touched by it . ( AP Photo/Ben Curtis , file ) <p> Drake performs in concert as part of the Summer Sixteen Tour at Madison Square Garden on Aug. 5 , 2016 , in New York . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . And at each step there 's been change and adaptation , as new , different voices came in and made it their own . Its foundations are steeped in the Black communities where it first made itself known but it 's spread out until there 's no corner of the world that has n't been touched by it . Hip-hop has impacted everything : Art , culture , fashion , community , social justice , politics , sports , business . This year is being marked as a 50th anniversary celebration . ( Photo by Charles Sykes/Invision/AP ) <p> 13 of 17 <p> Drake performs in concert as part of the Summer Sixteen Tour at Madison Square Garden on Aug. 5 , 2016 , in New York . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . And at each step there 's been change and adaptation , as new , different voices came in and made it their own . Its foundations are steeped in the Black communities where it first made itself known but it 's spread out until there 's no corner of the world that has n't been touched by it . Hip-hop has impacted everything : Art , culture , fashion , community , social justice , politics , sports , business . This year is being marked as a 50th anniversary celebration . ( Photo by Charles Sykes/Invision/AP ) <p> FILE - In this April 8 , 2016 , file photo , inductees MC Ren , from left , Dr. Dre , Ice Cube and DJ Yella from N.W.A appear at the 31st Annual Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Induction Ceremony at the Barclays Center in New York . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . And at each step there 's been change and adaptation , as new , different voices came in and made it their own . Some in hip-hop pulled no punches , using the art form and the culture as a no-holds-barred way of showcasing the troubles of their lives . Often those messages have been met with fear or disdain in the mainstream . When N.W.A. came " Straight Outta Compton " in 1988 with loud , brash tales of police abuse and gang life , radio stations recoiled . ( Photo by Charles Sykes/Invision/AP , File ) <p> 14 of 17 <p> FILE - In this April 8 , 2016 , file photo , inductees MC Ren , from left , Dr. Dre , Ice Cube and DJ Yella from N.W.A appear at the 31st Annual Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Induction Ceremony at the Barclays Center in New York . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . And at each step there 's been change and adaptation , as new , different voices came in and made it their own . Some in hip-hop pulled no punches , using the art form and the culture as a no-holds-barred way of showcasing the troubles of their lives . Often those messages have been met with fear or disdain in the mainstream . When N.W.A. came " Straight Outta Compton " in 1988 with loud , brash tales of police abuse and gang life , radio stations recoiled . ( Photo by Charles Sykes/Invision/AP , File ) <p> FILE - In this June 12 , 2016 file photo , Lin-Manuel Miranda and the cast of " Hamilton " perform at the Tony Awards in New York . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . And at each step there 's been change and adaptation , as new , different voices came in and made it their own . Its foundations are steeped in the Black communities where it first made itself known but it 's spread out until there 's no corner of the world that has n't been touched by it . Miranda 's groundbreaking musical about a distant white historical figure that came to life in the rhythms of its hip-hop soundtrack , brought a different energy and audience to the theater world . ( Photo by Evan Agostini/Invision/AP , File ) <p> 15 of 17 <p> FILE - In this June 12 , 2016 file photo , Lin-Manuel Miranda and the cast of " Hamilton " perform at the Tony Awards in New York . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . And at each step there 's been change and adaptation , as new , different voices came in and made it their own . Its foundations are steeped in the Black communities where it first made itself known but it 's spread out until there 's no corner of the world that has n't been touched by it . Miranda 's groundbreaking musical about a distant white historical figure that came to life in the rhythms of its hip-hop soundtrack , brought a different energy and audience to the theater world . ( Photo by Evan Agostini/Invision/AP , File ) <p> FILE - Guitarist Nile Rodgers of Chic performs at the Jazz Festival of 5 Continents , in Marseille , southern France , July 20 , 2013 . Hip-hop is , simply , " a magical art form , " says Rodgers , legendary musician , composer and record producer . He would know . It was his song " Good Times , " with the band Chic , that was recreated to form the basis for " Rapper 's Delight " all those years ago . " The impact that it 's had on the world , it really ca n't be quantified , " Rodgers says . " You can find someone in a village that you 've never been to , a country that you 've never been to , and all of a sudden you hear its own local hip-hop . And you do n't even know who these people are , but they 've adopted it and have made it their own . " ( AP Photo/Claude Paris , file ) <p> 16 of 17 <p> FILE - Guitarist Nile Rodgers of Chic performs at the Jazz Festival of 5 Continents , in Marseille , southern France , July 20 , 2013 . Hip-hop is , simply , " a magical art form , " says Rodgers , legendary musician , composer and record producer . He would know . It was his song " Good Times , " with the band Chic , that was recreated to form the basis for " Rapper 's Delight " all those years ago . " The impact that it 's had on the world , it really ca n't be quantified , " Rodgers says . " You can find someone in a village that you 've never been to , a country that you 've never been to , and all of a sudden you hear its own local hip-hop . And you do n't even know who these people are , but they 've adopted it and have made it their own . " ( AP Photo/Claude Paris , file ) <p> From left , DJ T Dynasty , Wonder Mike , Master Gee , Leland Robinson of Sugar Hill Records , son of Sylvia Robinson , Hen Dogg pose for a photograph in Englewood , N.J. , Friday , May 5 , 2023 . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . Among those who started to hear about it were some these men across the river in Englewood , N.J. , who started making up rhymes to go along with the beats . In 1979 , they auditioned as rappers for Sugar Hill Records . As The Sugarhill Gang , they put out " Rapper 's Delight " and introduced the country to a record that would reach as high as 36 on Billboard 's Top 100 chart list , and even make it to No. 1 in some European countries . ( AP Photo/Noreen Nasir ) <p> 17 of 17 <p> From left , DJ T Dynasty , Wonder Mike , Master Gee , Leland Robinson of Sugar Hill Records , son of Sylvia Robinson , Hen Dogg pose for a photograph in Englewood , N.J. , Friday , May 5 , 2023 . In the five decades since hip-hop emerged out of New York City , it has spread around the country and the world . Among those who started to hear about it were some these men across the river in Englewood , N.J. , who started making up rhymes to go along with the beats . In 1979 , they auditioned as rappers for Sugar Hill Records . As The Sugarhill Gang , they put out " Rapper 's Delight " and introduced the country to a record that would reach as high as 36 on Billboard 's Top 100 chart list , and even make it to No. 1 in some European countries . ( AP Photo/Noreen Nasir ) <p> NEW YORK ( AP ) -- It was born in the break , all those decades ago -- that moment when a song 's vocals dropped , instruments quieted down and the beat took the stage . It was then that hip-hop came into the world , taking the moment and reinventing it . Something new , coming out of something familiar . <p> At the hands of the DJs playing the albums , that break moment became something more : a composition in itself , repeated in an endless loop , back and forth between the turntables . The MCs got in on it , speaking their own clever rhymes and wordplay over it . So did the dancers , the b-boys and b-girls who hit the floor to break-dance . It took on its own visual style , with graffiti artists bringing it to the streets and subways of New York City . <p> It did n't stay there , of course . A musical form , a culture , with reinvention as its very DNA would never , could never . Hip-hop spread , from the parties to the parks , through New York City 's boroughs and then the region , around the country and the world . <p> And at each step : change , adaptation , as new , different voices came in and made it their own , in sound , in lyric , in purpose , in style . Its foundations steeped in the Black communities where it first made itself known and also spreading out and expanding , like ripples in water , until there 's no corner of the world that has n't been touched by it . <h> <p> Female rappers have been a part of hip-hop since its debut . Women have fought to shape their identification in hip-hop and demand recognition . ( August 9 ) ( AP Video : Sharon Johnson ) <p> Those looking for a hip-hop starting point have landed on one , turning this year into a 50th-birthday celebration . Aug. 11 , 1973 was the date a young Clive Campbell , known as DJ Kool Herc around his Bronx stomping grounds , deejayed a back-to-school party for his younger sister in the community room of an apartment building on Sedgwick Avenue . <p> Campbell , who was born and spent his early years in Jamaica before his family moved to the Bronx , was still a teen himself at that time , just 18 , when he began extending the musical breaks of the records he was playing to create a different kind of dancing opportunity . He 'd started speaking over the beat , reminiscent of the " toasting " style heard in Jamaica . <p> It was n't long before the style could be heard all over the city -- and began to spread around the New York City metro region . <p> Among those who started to hear about it were some young men across the river in Englewood , New Jersey , who started making up rhymes to go along with the beats . In 1979 , they auditioned as rappers for Sylvia Robinson , a singer turned music producer who co-founded Sugar Hill Records . <p> As The Sugarhill Gang , they put out " Rapper 's Delight " and introduced the country to a record that would reach as high as 36 on Billboard 's Top 100 chart list , and even make it to No. 1 in some European countries . <p> " Now what you hear is not a test : I 'm rappin ' to the beat/And me , the groove , and my friends are gon na try to move your feet , " Michael " Wonder Mike " Wright said in one of the song 's stanzas . <p> Wright says he had no doubt the song -- and , by extension , hip-hop -- was " going to be big . " I knew it was going to blow up and play all over the world because it was a new genre of music , " he tells The Associated Press . " You had classical jazz , bebop , rock , pop , and here comes a new form of music that did n't exist . " <p> And it was one based in self-expression , says Guy " Master Gee " O'Brien . " If you could n't sing or you could n't play an instrument , you could recite poetry and speak your mind . And so it became accessible to the everyman . " <h> Music Hip Hop at 50-HH50 special <p> AP correspondent Deepti Hajela reports on Hip-Hop Overview <p> And everywomen , too , of course . Female voices took their chances on the microphone and dance floors as well , like Roxanne Shante , a native of New York City 's Queens borough who was only 14 years old in 1984 . That was the year she became one of the first female MCs , those rhyming over the beat , to gain a wider audience -- and was part of what was likely the first well-known instance of rappers using their song tracks to take sonic shots at other rappers , in a back-and-forth song battle known as The Roxanne Wars . <p> " When I look at my female rappers of today , I see hope and inspiration , " Shante says . " When you look at some of your female rappers today and you see the businesses that they own and the barriers that they were able to break it down , it 's amazing to me and it 's an honor for me to even be a part of that from the beginning . " <p> Plenty of other women have joined her over the intervening decades , from Queen Latifah to Lil ' Kim to Nicki Minaj to Megan Thee Stallion and more , speaking on their experiences as women in hip-hop and the larger world . That does n't even begin to touch the list of women rappers hailing from other countries . <p> " There 's so many different pockets ... so many ways to exist , " she says . " It 's not about what other people have done . ... You can always recreate the blueprint . " <h> <p> The emphasis on self-expression has also meant that over the years , hip-hop has been used as a medium for just about everything . <p> Want to talk about a party or how awesome and rich you are ? Go for it . A cute guy or beautiful girl catch your eye ? Say it in a verse . Looking to take that sound coming out of New York City and adapt it to a West Coast vibe , or a Chicago beat , a New Orleans groove , or an Atlanta rhythm , or these days , sounds in Egypt , India , Australia , Nigeria ? It 's all you , and it 's all hip-hop . ( Now whether anyone listening thought it was actually any good ? That was a different story . ) <p> Mainstream America has n't always been ready for it . The sexually explicit content from Miami 's 2 Live Crew made their 1989 album " As Nasty As They Want To Be " the subject of a legal battle over obscenity and freedom of expression ; a later album , " Banned in the USA , " became the first to get an official record industry label about explicit content . <p> Coming from America 's Black communities , that has also meant hip-hop has been a tool to speak out against injustice , like in 1982 when Grandmaster Flash and the Furious Five told the world in " The Message , " that the stresses of poverty in their city neighborhoods made it feel " like a jungle sometimes/It makes me wonder how I keep from goin ' under . " <p> Other figures like Common and Kendrick Lamar have also turned to a conscious lyricism in their hip-hop , with perhaps none better known than Public Enemy , whose " Fight the Power " became an anthem when it was created for filmmaker Spike Lee 's 1989 classic " Do the Right Thing , " which chronicled racial tension in a Brooklyn neighborhood . <p> Some in hip-hop pulled no punches , using the art form and the culture as a no-holds-barred way of showcasing the troubles of their lives . Often those messages have been met with fear or disdain in the mainstream . When N.W.A. came " Straight Outta Compton " in 1988 with loud , brash tales of police abuse and gang life , radio stations recoiled . <p> Hip-hop ( mainly that done by Black artists ) and law enforcement have had a contentious relationship over the years , each eyeing the other with suspicion . There 's been cause for some of it . In some forms of hip-hop the ties between rappers and criminal figures were real , and the violence that spiraled out , as in high-profile deaths like that of Tupac Shakur in 1996 , The Notorious B.I.G . in 1997 , sometimes got very bloody . But in a country where Black people are often looked at with suspicion by authority , there have also been plenty of stereotypes about hip-hop and criminality . <p> As hip-hop spread over the years , a host of voices have used it to speak out on the issues that are dear to them . Look at Bobby Sanchez , a Peruvian American transgender , two-spirit poet and rapper who has released a song in Quechua , the language of the Wari people that her father came from . " Quechua 101 Land Back Please " references the killing of Indigenous peoples and calls for land restoration . <p> " I think it 's very special and cool when artists use it to reflect society because it makes it bigger than just them , " Sanchez says . " To me , it 's always political , really , no matter what you 're talking about , because hip-hop , in a way , is a form of resistance . " <h> <p> Yes , it 's an American creation . And yes , it 's still heavily influenced by what 's happening in America . But hip-hop has found homes all over the planet , turned to by people in every community under the sun to express what matters to them . <p> When hip-hop first started being absorbed outside of the United States , it was often with a mimicking of American styles and messages , says P. Khalil Saucier , who has studied the spread of hip-hop across the countries of Africa . <p> That 's not the case these days . Homegrown hip-hop can be found everywhere , a prime example of the genre 's penchant for staying relevant and vital by being reinvented by the people doing it . <p> " The culture as a whole has kind of really rooted itself because it 's been able to now transform itself from simply an importation , if you will , to now really being local in its multiple manifestations , regardless of what country you 're looking at , " says Saucier , a professor of critical Black studies at Bucknell University in Pennsylvania . <p> " Hip-hop is ... allowing you in someone 's world . It 's allowing you into someone 's struggles , " she says . " It 's a big microphone to say , Well , the streets say this is what is going on here and this is what you might not know about us . This is how we feel , and this is who we are . ' " <p> The impact has n't just been in one direction . Hip-hop has n't just been changed ; it has made change . It has gone into other spaces and made them different . It strutted through the fashion world as it brought its own sensibility to streetwear . It has revitalized companies ; just ask Timberland what sales were like before its workboots became de rigueur hip-hop wear . <p> Or look at perhaps the perfect example : " Hamilton , " Lin Manuel Miranda 's groundbreaking musical about a distant white historical figure that came to life in the rhythms of its hip-hop soundtrack , bringing a different energy and audience to the theater world . <p> Hip-hop " has done a very good job at making culture more accessible . It has broken into spaces that we 're traditionally not allowed to break into , " Dhaliwal says . <p> For Usha Jey , freestyling hip-hop was the perfect thing to mix with the classical , formal South Asian dance style of Bharatanatyam . The 26-year-old choreographer , born in France to Tamil immigrant parents , created a series of social media videos last year showing the two styles interacting with each other . It was her training in hip-hop that gave her the confidence and spirit to do something different . <p> Hip-hop culture " pushes you to be you , " Jey said . " I feel like in the pursuit of finding yourself , hip-hop helps me because that culture says , you 've got to be you . " <p> Hip-hop is , simply , " a magical art form , " says Nile Rodgers , legendary musician , composer and record producer . He would know . It was his song " Good Times , " with the band Chic , that was recreated to form the basis for " Rapper 's Delight " all those years ago . <p> " The impact that it 's had on the world , it really ca n't be quantified , " Rodgers says . " You can find someone in a village that you 've never been to , a country that you 've never been to , and all of a sudden you hear its own local hip-hop . And you do n't even know who these people are , but they 've adopted it and have made it their own . " <h> <p> Associated Press Entertainment writer Jonathan Landrum Jr . in Los Angeles contributed to this report . Hajela is a member of the AP 's team covering race and ethnicity . <p> The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting . Founded in 1846 , AP today remains the most trusted source of fast , accurate , unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business . More than half the world 's population sees AP journalism every day . 
@@91377140 <h> How Israel 's Democratic Crisis Affects Palestinians <p> The attack of Benjamin Netanyahu 's government on Israel 's High Court " has to do with the role of the High Court , to some extent , in the occupied territories , " the Palestinian lawyer Raja Shehadeh says.Photograph by Tobias Schwarz / AFP / Getty <p> In January , shortly after Benjamin Netanyahu swore in Israel 's new government , I spoke by phone with Raja Shehadeh , the Palestinian lawyer and activist who co-founded the human-rights organization Al-Haq . Shehadeh was concerned about many of the extremists who had joined Netanyahu 's coalition , but he also predicted that the government 's impact was likely to register more strongly among Israelis than Palestinians , who have been living under occupation for decades . Netanyahu has now overseen parts of a judicial overhaul that opponents characterize as a profound threat to Israeli democracy , as well as an expansion of Israeli settlements . There has also been an increase in violence by settlers , which -- combined with the actions of Israeli security forces -- has resulted in the deaths of more than a hundred and fifty Palestinians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deaths . Amid this increase in violence , the Palestinian Authority has struggled to maintain order in the West Bank . <p> Shehadeh and I spoke again recently about what the most right-wing government in Israel 's history has meant for Palestinians , whether the protests in Israel against the Netanyahu government could expand to address the occupation , and Shehadeh 's despair over the impossible choices facing the Palestinian people . Our conversation , edited and condensed for clarity , is below . <p> The last time we spoke , you predicted that Netanyahu 's new coalition -- at least in terms of its relationship to Palestinians -- would represent a difference in degree rather than in kind from previous Israeli governments . That the situation was already so dire that it was n't clear how much things were actually going to change . How do you view the situation today ? <p> I was right about the fact that there was n't going to be much structural change , but I did n't take into account the avarice of the settlers -- their unlimited greed in using their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't realize that what they did would have an effect on Israel , too , as seen by the big protests that are taking place there now . <p> The settlements have existed since the beginning of the occupation , and the structure that enabled the takeover of land and building of settlements has not changed . Generally , the Israelis were tolerant of all this . But the new right-wing government wanted to do even more than what was already happening . For example , the structures that were in place did not allow settlements over private land , but the settlers have been encroaching on it anyway . The Palestinians can resort to legal action , but the settlers wanted to stop that possibility through the court . This is one reason that the government has been trying to curb the powers of the High Court . It 's not the only one , of course , but it 's part of the goal . <p> Another thing that the settlers are trying to do is drive as many Palestinians out of the area as possible , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was planted land . They cut trees ; hundreds of trees have been cut on Palestinian land , and house demolitions have been continuing on a large scale . And , the thing is , there is total government tolerance of these activities . The Army supports settlers , and the settlers know this . <p> It sounds like there 's been a fair amount of vigilante violence . Is that correct ? <p> Yeah . Recently , settlers attacked the village of Burqa , and shot a man named Qusai . Then they played the victim and said they were attacked when in fact they were the ones who had come to attack the village . In a statement , the Army said that Israeli settlers came to herd sheep nearby and got into a confrontation with Palestinians from the town , during which both sides began to throw rocks . The settlers then started shooting , and killed Qusai Matan . The suspected assailant was recently placed under house arrest but has n't yet been charged with a crime . <p> One of the critiques of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it has n't focussed enough on the rights of Palestinians , and has focussed instead on Israel 's democracy vis- ? -vis Jewish Israeli citizens . Do you think that 's a fair critique ? It seems like you were hinting in your last answer that you did think the state of the judiciary was in some sense intimately connected to the state of Israeli-Palestinian relations . <p> I think that Israelis , by and large , are n't aware that they ca n't have democracy in Israel while there is no democracy for the millions of Palestinians they are controlling in the West Bank and Gaza Strip . Some of my Israeli friends have assured me that , yes , there is much more awareness of this now , but I think it 's a very small number . <p> When you say there ca n't be democracy in Israel while there 's no democracy in the Palestinian territories , is that a moral statement or a practical one ? Are you essentially saying that it enrages you that Israelis grant themselves some form of democracy and wo n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israel 's treatment of Palestinians is going to corrode Israeli democracy to the extent that , practically speaking , Israeli democracy can not really work if the occupation continues ? <p> It 's the second . All along , I 've been proposing that the actions which law enforcement and the Army are taking in the West Bank will eventually affect the Israelis in Israel . And this is exactly what is happening . The lack of law enforcement and rule of law in the occupied territories and the oppression that is taking place is definitely corroding the Israeli way of life and Israeli enforcement of the law . <p> The Israeli government 's attack against the High Court has to do with the role of the High Court , to some extent , in the occupied territories . That 's not to say that the High Court has been great for the Palestinians in the occupied territories : it has allowed house demolitions , and has been generally responsive to the claim that all that is taking place is done in the name of security . But , still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in order to stop that , the forces on the right are trying to curb the power of the High Court , which affects Israel of course , very much . This is one way that what 's happening in the West Bank is corroding the situation in Israel . <p> Obviously , things have worsened in the settlements , and I 'm curious how that 's changing Palestinian internal political dynamics . <p> We have to go back , really , to the beginning of the Oslo Accords . Oslo was an attempt by the Palestine Liberation Organization and Israel to resolve the situation through negotiation , and Oslo failed because Israel did n't follow up with the promises that it made to the Palestinians . The argument that it 's possible to negotiate a settlement has become very unpopular . <p> And so the P.A. , the Palestinian Authority , has now become very unpopular and weak because its policies toward Israel , which were conciliatory and geared toward negotiations , have failed . There has also been no progress toward getting the case against Israel in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a result , the argument is that the only way is through struggle -- unfortunately , armed struggle . The policy of the Palestinian Authority to use international law to gain recognition for Palestine has failed . And so this very much affects the popularity of the Palestinian Authority . <p> But these are critiques of the Palestinian Authority that you could have heard prior to the past six months . <p> That 's right . But , now that the settlers are so much more active against Palestinians , the question of defending oneself against the settlers -- there 's no answer to that . People have become much more radicalized because of the settlers ' activities and their brutality toward Palestinians . So we are moving closer to a possibility of armed resistance in the form of an intifada , which would be a disaster for the Palestinians , because any armed struggle would definitely be in favor of the Israelis . They 're the stronger party , and the extremist settlers are moving in that direction in order to get the opportunity to drive away the Palestinians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't want Palestinians in the greater land of Israel . <p> If a third intifada would be disastrous , and if the approach taken by the Palestinian Authority in previous generations did not get what was intended or hoped for in terms of concessions from the Israelis , what would a better strategy be ? What would you recommend to Palestinian political leaders in that case ? <p> It 's very difficult to recommend anything because they 're in a bind . The Israeli government is very bent on destroying the Palestinians and punishing them and not giving any concessions or leeway . So it 's very difficult to see how to move forward . But I think that the important thing is for the Palestinians to stay put and to perhaps realize that we will be the first victims in the demise of Israel -- if that 's what 's happening -- and the untangling of the Israeli state . It will not be favorable to us because we are the weaker party ; we 're going to be suffering the most in the case of any dissolution of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going to say that chaos in Israel over these protests was the only thing the Palestinians could hope for , since the status quo was so bad . But it sounds like you 're saying the opposite -- that the Palestinians should maybe hope for the judicial reforms to fail , but that any kind of large-scale shakeup within Israel or dissolution of Israel as a governing state would also be bad for them . <p> Oh , yeah . It 's going to be very bad because we 'll be the first victims of any disintegration within Israel . <p> You 're laying out a pretty bleak scenario , in which violent political action will fail , dissolution within Israel will fail , and a more passive posture is also going to fail and has failed . <p> Yeah . And the problem is that there are so many guns available in the Palestinian territories -- which Israel of course seems to have allowed somehow . And that is disastrous because it 'll lead to armed struggle , and armed struggle means that we are going to be the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do you think the Palestinian Authority , given its weaknesses , has been able to hold on to the degree it has for as long as it has ? <p> Hamas is very careful ; they wo n't try to take over until the time is opportune . And the time is not opportune for them now . They 're gaining popularity , but they wo n't take control of the government . The Palestinian Authority is against elections because they know they will not win , and Hamas is not going to force anything because the Palestinian Authority takes care of the civil matters of health and education and so on ; there are plenty of expenditures that Hamas would be burdened with . And , of course , with the international boycott of Hamas , they wo n't be able to get the money to carry on with these matters , which will mean that they will lose , because the Palestinians need these things and Hamas will not be able to provide them . So it 's better for Hamas to have the Palestinian Authority provide education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I know that you 're not hoping for the dissolution of the current state , because you think it will lead to chaos , which will hurt the Palestinians . But what are you hoping for in these protests , and do you see any hope that the energies within the protest movement could be directed to other causes more explicitly concerning the Palestinians ? And , if so , what would that look like ? <p> You know , I 'm not in Israel ; I 'm in the occupied territories . But I talk to friends and reporters , and I hear two conflicting opinions . One from friends who are on the left who say that , more and more , Israelis are becoming conscious of the effect of the occupation and its impact on Israel , and that they will connect these protests to the situation in the West Bank and the occupied territories . But some of the people saying this have not been to the West Bank , really . They 've been against the occupation , but they are bystanders , so to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been involved in reporting on the occupation , and on the settlements and settlers and so on . And I hear from them that there 's no likelihood at all that the protesters in Israel will come and be involved in the West Bank . They 'll stay away from it because they think that , if they get involved , they will lose popularity in Israel among the people who are participating in the protests . So I 'm inclined to believe that there is a very slim likelihood that the protesters in Israel will get involved in the settlements and in the West Bank . <p> But there is certainly more openness among Israelis to see the role of the settlements in the corruption of Israel itself . There 's much more willingness to hear about that and realize that the illegal things the settlers have done in the West Bank definitely have an impact on Israel and on Israelis . And this was n't the case before at all . Before , Israelis had a total separation between the settlements and their life in Israel . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have any embarrassing actions that were heard about in the rest of the world , they did n't care what the settlers were doing , and how they were doing it . <p> Now there is much more willingness to listen . So , for example , there was a pogrom in Huwara , and the settlers burned houses with people inside them . This was an embarrassment for many Israelis because it was reported all over the world . The word " pogrom " was used , and that was a shock for many Israelis -- Jewish people , who have been subjected to pogroms in their history , are now subjecting others to pogroms nearby . And that became an embarrassment , and they did n't want to hear more of such cases . But what did they do to stop that ? They have n't done anything to stop that from happening again . <p> Raja , how old are you ? What year were you born ? <p> I was born in 1951 . I 'm seventy-two . <p> We 've talked before . I 've @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maybe never heard you quite express the feeling that the status quo is unchangeable . I 'm curious if you feel like that 's true , and about how you would characterize this moment more broadly . <p> I think we 're in a very dangerous moment ; I feel that the settlers are consciously pushing Palestinians toward action that will result in a very bad conflict , which will be much worse than anything that we 've lived through before . I 've lived through two intifadas now , and if there is a third it 'll be much worse than anything I have seen . And that makes me very worried and afraid for our future . <p> Now that I 'm seventy-two , I 'm thinking of those of us who have been writing -- maybe we did n't write enough , did n't do enough , did n't try enough , or try hard enough . And maybe if we had tried hard enough , we could have reached the Israelis and reached the world . I 'm not sure if that is true or if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But I think , also , that the Western media did not help make our voices heard . And this is always an important factor in Israel -- the U.S. reaction to what is happening in Israel . Now there is a little more reaction in the States as far as I can tell , but it does n't go far enough toward making any real difference . <p> The other thing is that Israel has become so strong economically . What is happening there is going to affect the economy , but it 's not going to have such an effect that it 'll be very quickly felt and make people in Israel want to really change . If it 's going to be affected , it will take a long time . <p> But there is something that rightly worries Israelis -- which is the demographic trend toward more religious people becoming more involved in the government . That will make it possible for the right-wing government to be even stronger than it is now . And that 's something that concerns many Israelis and is forcing many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the future is not good for the liberals who want to live a decent life and not be controlled by the religious Jews . But that is a long-term thing . And , again , all these negative things in Israel are not necessarily good for us in the West Bank . ? <p> Sign up for our daily newsletter to receive the best stories from The New Yorker . <p> Isaac Chotiner is a staff writer at The New Yorker , where he is the principal contributor to Q. &amp; A. , a series of interviews with public figures in politics , media , books , business , technology , and more . 
