@@118315055 <h> Israeli strikes kill 15 in Gaza <p> Israeli military strikes killed at least 15 Palestinians in Gaza yesterday , medics said , as Israeli forces kept up bombardments across the enclave and blew up houses on its northern edge . <p> As fighting raged almost 14 months into the offensive , the head of the United Nations Palestinian refugee agency ( UNRWA ) said it had to halt aid deliveries through one crossing a day after armed gangs inside Gaza seized food from a convoy of trucks . <p> " This difficult decision comes at a time hunger is rapidly deepening , " UNRWA 's Philippe Lazzarini said in a post on X. <p> In the central Gaza camp of Nuseirat , an Israeli airstrike killed six people in a house , and another attack killed three in a home in Gaza City , medics said . <p> Two children were killed when a missile hit a tent encampment in Khan Younis in the southern Gaza Strip , while four other people were killed in an airstrike in Rafah , near the border with Egypt , medics told Reuters . <p> Residents said the military blew up clusters of houses in the northern Gaza areas of Jabalia , Beit Lahiya and Beit Hanoun , where Israeli forces have operated since October this year . <p> Israel 's military campaign in Gaza has killed at least 44,429 people and displaced nearly all of the enclave 's population , Gaza officials said yesterday . In Cairo yesterday , Hamas leaders held talks with Egyptian security officials to explore ways to reach a deal with Israel that could secure the release of hostages in return for Palestinian prisoners . The visit was the first since the US announced on Wednesday it would revive efforts in collaboration with Qatar , Egypt and Turkey to negotiate a ceasefire in Gaza . 
@@118391155 <p> Israeli military strikes killed at least 14 Palestinians across the Gaza Strip yesterday , most of them in the town of Beit Lahiya on the northern edge , medics said , as the army issued new evacuation orders in the south of the tiny enclave . <p> Medics said eight people had been killed in a series of strikes in Beit Lahiya while four others were killed elsewhere in Gaza City . <p> An Israeli air strike later killed two people and wounded others in Jabalia , the largest of Gaza 's eight historic refugee camps , in the northern Gaza Strip , medics said . <p> The Palestinian Civil Emergency Service said its operations in Jabalia , Beit Lahiya and Beit Hanoun had now been halted for nearly four weeks due to Israeli attacks on their teams and to fuel shortages . <p> Yesterday , it said 13 of 27 vehicles in central and southern Gaza Strip were also out of operation due to fuel shortages . It said 88 members of the Civil Emergency Service had been killed , 304 wounded and 21 detained by Israel since the war started . <p> Israel 's military campaign has killed at least 44,502 Palestinians , injured many others , and reduced much of the enclave to rubble , reports Reuters . <p> Meanwhile , Palestinian Islamist movement Hamas and Palestinian President Mahmud Abbas 's Fatah party have agreed to create a committee to jointly run post-war Gaza , negotiators from both sides said yesterday . <p> Under the plan , which needs Abbas 's approval , the committee would be composed of 10 to 15 non-partisan figures with authority on matters related to the economy , education , health , humanitarian aid and reconstruction , according to a draft of the proposal seen by AFP. 
@@118391190 <h> Bangladesh 's Rikta Akter Banu on BBC 's 100 women list <p> Bangladeshi nurse Rikta Akter Banu included in the list of 100 inspiring and influential women <p> Bangladeshi nurse Rikta Akter Banu has been included in the list of 100 inspiring and influential women from around the world for 2024 -- published by the BBC on Tuesday -- for her role in creating a positive impact on the community 's views around disability . <p> The women were selected in five categories- Climate Pioneers , Culture and Education , Entertainment and Sport , Politics and Advocacy and Science , Health and Tech . <p> Rikta Akter Banu was selected under Science , Health and Tech category.Rikta lives in a remote area of northern Bangladesh where having an autistic or disabled child is seen as a curse , according to BBC . <p> From facing deadly conflicts and humanitarian crises in Gaza , Lebanon , Ukraine and Sudan , to witnessing the polarisation in societies that followed a record number of elections around the world , women have had to dig deep and find new levels of resilience . <p> BBC 100 Women acknowledges the toll this year has taken on women by celebrating those who -- through their resilience -- are pushing for change , as the world changes around them . The list also remains committed to exploring the impact of the climate emergency , highlighting climate pioneers who work to help their communities tackle its impacts . 
@@118435835 <h> Why India should address the misinformation campaign against Bangladesh <p> The relationship between Bangladesh and India is undeniably getting strained . Recent events reflect that tensions are continuing to rise . On December 2 , over 50 protesters reportedly entered the premises of the Bangladesh mission in Tripura 's Agartala and vandalised it , violating the Vienna Convention . The Indian Ministry of External Affairs ( MEA ) said the action was " regrettable , " and ramped up security at all of Bangladesh 's diplomatic missions around the country ; however , uncertainty remains regarding what lies ahead . On December 3 , the All Tripura Hotels and Restaurant Owners Association announced a temporary ban on serving Bangladeshi tourists , citing the mistreatment of minorities in Bangladesh . Earlier , ILS Hospital , a multi-specialty private hospital , announced that it would not treat any patients from Bangladesh , protesting against " atrocities on minorities " in the neighbouring country . The events point to an escalation of anti-Bangladesh sentiments on the Indian side , fostered by a misinformation campaign in sections of the Indian media and government . <p> For context , tensions have further simmered since the arrest of former ISKCON leader Chinmoy Krishna Das Brahmachari at Dhaka airport on sedition charges , and the subsequent killing of Saiful Islam Alif , a lawyer and assistant public prosecutor who was fatally attacked with sharp objects during protests after Das was denied bail in Chattogram . Arnab Goswami 's Republic TV falsely reported the incident claiming , " Muslim lawyer representing ISKCON Chinmoy Das killed , " which went viral , spreading through legions of trolls and social media users , using the post to further demonise Bangladesh . Fact-checking by the chief adviser 's press wing revealed that the lawyer representing Das was Subasish Sharma . Among those arrested for Alif 's murder , two men , Zia Uddin Fahim and Rajiv Bhattacharya alias Suman , were affiliated with Chhatra League , Awami League 's student wing . Sheikh Hasina also used the attack on the lawyer to state that the Yunus regime " fails to punish these terrorists . " The Indian media are , in many ways , aligned with Sheikh Hasina and the Awami League 's false rhetoric . <p> The day the attack took place in Agartala , India Today also published the news headline , " Mamata Banerjee calls for UN peacekeepers in Bangladesh amid anti-Hindu violence . " The industrial scale of exaggeration regarding Bangladesh has followed a premise that can be summed up with a line plucked out of the aforementioned article : " Since Sheikh Hasina 's resignation as Bangladesh 's Prime Minister following violent protests , the country has witnessed increasing violence against Hindus . " The wording encompasses the narrative that the Awami League -- which was elected through a farce of an election -- uses to delegitimise the democratic movement that saw the end of its fascist governance . The truth is conveniently warped : Sheikh Hasina unleashed deadly violence on peaceful protesters ( which included shooting them on sight ) , killing hundreds of students . <p> The December 2 incident in Agartala followed days after a protest by Bongio Hindu Jagran group . Seeking the immediate release of Chinmoy Krishna Das , protesters gathered to express grievances to the deputy Bangladesh high commissioner in Kolkata . Few representatives were allowed to enter the Deputy High Commission . According to The Hindu , Acharya Sanjay Shastri , after submitting a request to the assistant deputy high commissioner , said , " They have listened to our grievances . They have assured us that they will carry our voices to the Bangladesh government . " Large sections of the Indian media left out this segment of the events that transpired when reporting on the clash and the burning of the Bangladesh flag in Kolkata . <p> Misinformation ( the inadvertent sharing of false or misleading information ) and disinformation ( the deliberate dissemination of falsehoods to deceive ) have been a pervasive problem , especially as India continues to voice its concerns regarding Bangladesh ever since the ouster of the Awami League government . The exaggeration of attacks on Hindu minorities to provoke the public , drawing parallels with Gaza and Ukraine from sections of the Indian government , serve to further strain the relationship between the two nations . With social media playing a huge role in global politics , the most terrifying aspect of disinformation is that it is shared and consumed in a decentralised manner , where asking social media platforms to fix the crisis has not helped any nation . The anti-Bangladesh sentiment has already spread to the US President-elect Donald Trump , who used it before the election to gain votes . It is also being embraced by members of parliament in the United Kingdom . On December 2 , Labour MP Barry Gardiner embraced the AL narrative referring to the shooting of unarmed citizens as " riots , " and misrepresented Bangladesh as an " Islamic state , " aligning with the Islamophobic rhetoric put forth by the Indian media that Bangladesh is the " next Afghanistan . " <p> According to the 2024 World Economic Forum 's Global Risks Report , India is the leading country in terms of misinformation and disinformation prevalence . Per the Global Investigative Journalism Network ( GIJN ) , research into disinformation and misinformation says that the more individuals are exposed to falsehoods , the greater the likelihood they are to believe them , even when the information contradicts their existing beliefs . This alarming trend in the spread of misinformation has led to increased political , religious and social polarisation and unrest in India . Fourteen Indian nationals -- identifying as " left-wing " or " secular " -- interviewed by The Daily Star expressed concern regarding the presence of Sheikh Hasina in India , the incendiary language used by Indian television hosts , and what that means for India 's own democracy under what they called " a far-right government , which embraces communal politics " and " division across religious lines . " <p> The misinformation machine in India has the potential to wreak havoc in Bangladesh with Indian media channels operating at a global scale . In 2019 , the EU DisinfoLab identified a network of at least 265 coordinated fake local media outlets operating in over 65 countries , which have links with India . By 2020 , the network had grown to include 750 fake news websites spanning 116 countries . A section of the Indian media , such as The Quint , has itself addressed the issue of misinformation . Articles were published fact-checking the wildfire spread of fake news regarding the violence against minorities which took away attention from the violence that did actually take place , leaving minorities in a more vulnerable position . <p> India is applying its own framework of sectarian politics to interpret and represent Bangladesh , a nation that has historically had a legacy of cultural diversity and coexistence . The antagonistic perspective disregards the nuanced reality of Bangladesh , even amid the widespread religious tensions that characterise much of South Asia . In her seminal work The Clash Within : Democracy , Religious Violence , and India 's Future , scholar Martha Nussbaum delves into the complexities of religious extremism and its threat to India 's secular democracy leading to demonisation of minorities . Using the same template to understand the party politics in Bangladesh is unproductive and goes beyond misinformation , as Indian establishments fall short of seeing the nuanced politics and forces at play in Bangladesh , regardless of the source that is used to produce news . <p> Eminent Indian journalist Salil Tripathi critiques India 's diplomatic strategy for its heavy reliance on individual leaders , investment into the former leader of Bangladesh , and for overlooking broader spectrum of Bangladeshi society . India 's approach , along with misplaced concerns and deeply entrenched culture of misinformation in India poses challenges for bilateral relations . The dynamics of bilateral relations warrant deeper examination , particularly the resistance to calls for an equal partnership and a meaningful voice in foreign policy decisions . As the most powerful nation in the region and an aspiring superpower , India wields significant influence over regional resources , but this dominance should not come at a disproportionate cost to its neighbouring countries . <p> The unequal dynamics between Bangladesh and India are starkly evident in several areas : the water-sharing agreements , where Bangladesh endures water shortages while India benefits from unregulated upstream usage ; the persistent trade imbalance favouring India ; the harsh treatment of Bangladeshis along the border ; and energy projects such as the Adani power plant that serve India 's strategic interests . India has at times shown interest in Bangladesh 's internal affairs , whereas Bangladesh has maintained a policy of non-interference in India 's domestic issues . <p> The Indian state is fearful of the change in Bangladesh because it is conflating Bangladeshi people 's voice against one leader that it favoured as a verdict against India , which is not the case . What is unfolding instead is a reflection of India 's prejudice against its neighbour , evident in the ongoing misinformation campaigns that the state permits to persist , which in fact perpetuates a long-standing legacy of inequity towards minorities in India -- who are conflated as unwanted Bangladeshi migrants . These incidents of discrimination are explored by political scientist Navine Murshed examining " India 's Bangladesh problem . " The 2019 Citizenship Amendment Act ( CAA ) passed in India with its discriminatory content portrays Bangladesh as a source of illegal migration and place of religious persecution . The current misinformation and disinformation campaign is a continuation of the same sentiment . <p> It must also be mentioned that India was among the leading countries in generating Covid-related misinformation . In one instance , a video falsely claimed that Bangladeshi citizens were sneaking into India en masse to receive vaccines -- a narrative that exacerbated xenophobia and strained relations between the two countries . These doctored or contextually manipulated clips were shared widely , stoking communal tensions . Indian social media platforms are also awash with manipulated visuals of the Israel-Palestine conflict . These fabrications often originate from fringe groups but gain traction through retweets and shares by mainstream political figures , lending them undue credibility . <p> Doctored videos have become a staple of misinformation campaigns in India , often with far-reaching consequences . In one notorious example , a video was circulated purporting to show Bangladeshi citizens burning the Indian flag during a protest . The video was later debunked by Soch and AFP Fact Check , revealing it to be from an unrelated event in Jammu and Kashmir in 2009 . However , the damage was done , as such content feeds into pre-existing biases and sows distrust between the two nations . <p> The role of Indian politicians in amplifying misinformation also can not be ignored . From top leaders to regional politicians , many have shared unverified or misleading content and added their sensational analysis of the situation . For instance , inflammatory posts accusing Bangladesh of harbouring anti-India sentiments or allowing the persecution of Hindus have occasionally been shared by Indian political figures . Though pragmatic in his approach as a politician , External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has , till this day , deliberately ignored the bloodshed that the previous regime caused in Bangladesh , and amplified the focus on violence against minorities since Bangladesh 's former prime minister fled to India . <p> In recent parliamentary sessions , many prominent MPs have expressed concerns about safety of minorities and urged for diplomacy to ensure Indian interests are protected , but urging diplomatic initiatives without addressing the rampant misinformation undermines the effectiveness of such efforts . Repeatedly , mainstream Indian rhetoric fails to grasp the nuanced political dynamics that shape Bangladesh 's unique political landscape . One glaring example involved claims that Bangladesh 's interim government was complicit in attacks on Hindu minorities , using unverified reports and outdated visuals . While Bangladesh does face challenges regarding minority rights , the oversimplification and sensationalisation of such incidents fuel mistrust and hostility , making diplomatic engagement more challenging . The sensational narratives pushed in India not only undermine Bangladesh 's sovereignty but , as shown by recent events , risk igniting communal tensions within both countries . <p> The misinformation campaigns emanating from India can have profound implications for Bangladesh-India relations in the long term . Misinformation exacerbates the existing tense dynamic , creating unnecessary friction over border issues , trade disputes , and communal incidents . A notable example is the controversy over the Citizenship Amendment Act ( CAA ) and the National Register of Citizens ( NRC ) in India gained prominence between 2019 and 2020 . Misleading narratives portrayed Bangladesh as a country willingly expelling its Hindu population , ignoring the complex socioeconomic factors at play . The misinformation campaign led to protests and backlash in Bangladesh , straining bilateral ties . <p> But what must be realised by India -- at this crucial inflection point where the choice is upon them to either manage the brewing tensions or nurture the division further -- is that Bangladesh 's stability is crucial for India 's security and economic interests . As a gateway to Southeast Asia and a critical partner in India 's " Act East " policy , a stable Bangladesh ensures regional connectivity and economic growth . The success of the current interim government is in India 's best interest . India 's cooperation with the interim government can lead to a better understanding for security of both nations in the long term . Demonisation of the interim government and the chief adviser will only harvest anti-Indian sentiment in Bangladesh , as it happened in Maldives , for example . <p> Misinformation in India also has wider repercussions for the Asia-Pacific region . As two of the largest South Asian nations , Bangladesh and India are key players in regional stability . A strained relationship between the two could disrupt initiatives like the Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation ( BIMSTEC ) and hinder broader geopolitical objectives . Furthermore , misinformation campaigns that portray Bangladesh as antagonistic to India serve only to weaken regional solidarity . A secure Bangladesh is necessary to keep the separatist movement in India 's northeastern states at bay as the two countries share a porous border over 4,000 kilometres , much of which runs along India 's sensitive northeastern region . The matter is particularly concerning in a time when the Asia-Pacific region faces challenges like climate change , economic inequality , and great power rivalries . For India to achieve its aspirations of being a regional leader , fostering trust and cooperation with neighbours like Bangladesh is essential . <p> In an era where perception often supersedes reality , combating misinformation is as critical as addressing traditional security threats . For India , maintaining a stable , cooperative relationship with Bangladesh should not only be a matter of diplomacy but a strategic imperative . To achieve this , both nations must work together to tackle the scourge of misinformation that threatens to undermine the shared aspirations of their people . Both nations share a historical and cultural legacy and interconnected economies . Continuation of false and antagonistic narratives about communal violence , migration , and political instability risks eroding the foundation of the historic trust between the two countries when that does not need to be the case . <p> Ramisa Rob is in-charge of Geopolitical Insights at The Daily Star . <p> Sarzah Yeasmin is a contributor to Geopolitical Insights at The Daily Star and an alum of Harvard University . 
@@118435864 <p> With brutal conflicts spiralling in places like Gaza , Sudan and Ukraine , and as climate change and extreme weather take an ever-heavier toll , the UN estimated that 305 million people globally will need some form of emergency assistance next year . <p> " We are dealing with a poly-crisis right now globally , and it is the most vulnerable people in the world who are paying the price , " Fletcher said , warning that swelling inequality combined with the convergence of conflict and climate change had created a " perfect storm " of needs . <p> Launching the Global Humanitarian Overview , Fletcher acknowledged that the UN and its partners would not be able to reach all of those in need . <p> The annual appeal by UN agencies and partner humanitarian organisations is seeking $47.4 billion for 2025 -- slightly less than the appeal for this year -- which it said was enough to provide assistance to the 189.5 million most vulnerable people . <p> " There 's 115 million that we wo n't be able to reach " with this plan , Fletcher acknowledged . <p> Pointing to significant " donor fatigue " hitting humanitarian operations , he stressed the need for a " realistic " plan , which required prioritisation and making " really tough , tough choices " . <p> " We 've got to be absolutely focused on reaching those in the most dire need , and really ruthless . " <p> As of last month , only 43 percent of the $50 billion appeal for this year had been met . <p> Underfunding this year has seen an 80-percent reduction in food assistance in Syria , cuts to protection services in Myanmar , and diminished water and sanitation aid in cholera-prone Yemen , the UN said . <p> Camilla Waszink of the Norwegian Refugee Council described the appeal 's acknowledgement that millions would not be reached as " devastating " . <p> " When the richest people on Earth can go to space as a tourist and trillions of US dollars are used annually on global military expenditure , it is incomprehensible that we as an international community are unable to find the necessary funding to provide displaced families with shelter and prevent children from dying of hunger , " she said . <p> Even more than funding woes , Fletcher said the biggest barrier to assisting and protecting people in armed conflict was the widespread violation of international law . <p> This year has already been the deadliest for humanitarian workers , surpassing the 2023 toll of 280 killed . 
@@118435883 <h> 12 entertainment stars featured in BBC 100 Women 2024 list <p> Arts &amp; Entertainment Desk <p> Wed Dec 4 , 2024 02:25 PM Last update on : Wed Dec 4 , 2024 02:38 PM <p> Photos : Collected <p> The BBC has revealed its 2024 list of 100 inspiring and influential women , shining a spotlight on those who , amid global challenges , continue to push for meaningful change . From regions marked by deadly conflicts in Gaza , Lebanon , Ukraine , and Sudan , to countries grappling with intense societal polarization post-elections , women worldwide have exhibited extraordinary resilience . This year 's selection underscores their vital role in driving transformation , even as the world shifts around them . <p> The 2024 list also focuses on those responding to the climate crisis , highlighting pioneers who work at the forefront of environmental action , helping their communities navigate the impacts of a changing planet . <p> Among the honorees , 12 women from the global entertainment industry stand out , proving the power of culture and the arts in amplifying the voices of the marginalized , inspiring social change , and challenging stereotypes . <p> Women in the Spotlight : <p> Elaha Soroor , Afghanistan ( Singer and Composer ) <p> Amid a wave of suppression against women in Afghanistan , Elaha Soroor 's song " Naan , Kar , Azadi ! " ( Bread , Work , Freedom ! ) emerged as a beacon of hope . Premiered in October at the All Afghan Women Summit , Soroor 's anthem encourages resistance against erasure . Despite facing a violent backlash early in her career , Soroor has remained a steadfast advocate for women 's rights , using her platform to amplify their struggles . <p> Hadiqa Kiani , Pakistan ( Singer and Songwriter ) <p> Known as one of Pakistan 's most iconic voices , Hadiqa Kiani combines musical talent with humanitarian advocacy . After the devastating 2022 floods in Pakistan , she launched the Vaseela-e-Raah project , aiding displaced families and reconstructing hundreds of homes in affected regions . Her commitment to both music and social work has made her a towering figure in South Asia 's cultural and humanitarian landscape . <p> Inna Modja , Mali ( Artist and Climate Advocate ) <p> Inna Modja has spent her career fighting for climate justice and against female genital mutilation . Her film The Great Green Wall underscores Africa 's ambitious environmental efforts in the Sahel region . As a co-founder of Code Green , a non-profit leveraging tech and gaming for climate action , Modja is a voice for communities hit hardest by environmental degradation . <p> Naomi Watanabe , Japan ( Comedian ) <p> Breaking barriers in the male-dominated world of Japanese comedy , Naomi Watanabe has spearheaded the pochakawaii movement , translating to " chubby and cute , " to challenge harmful body stereotypes in Japan . Watanabe 's success on the global stage continues to inspire a generation of women comedians and advocates for body positivity . <p> Raye , UK ( Singer ) <p> A powerful voice in the British music scene , Raye made history at the 2024 Brit Awards , winning six out of seven nominations . Her candid discussions about the struggles of sexual assault , drug abuse , and body dysmorphia -- alongside her call for fairer pay for songwriters -- highlight the challenges women face in the music industry , as she continues to inspire both fans and peers . <p> Firda Marsya Kurnia , Indonesia ( Heavy Metal Musician ) <p> As the lead vocalist of Voice of Baceprot , an all-female hijab-wearing heavy metal band , Firda Marsya Kurnia challenges gender norms and religious conservatism in Indonesia . The band 's groundbreaking performance at Glastonbury this year marked a major achievement for Southeast Asian women in music . <p> Sharon Stone , US ( Actress ) <p> Hollywood star Sharon Stone 's career has spanned over three decades , with notable performances in films like Basic Instinct and Casino . But beyond acting , Stone 's advocacy work has left a lasting impact , particularly in supporting people living with HIV . Earlier this year , she was awarded the inaugural Golden Globe International Icon Award for her contributions to cinema and humanitarian causes . <p> Gaby Moreno , Guatemala ( Latin-pop Musician ) <p> Grammy-winning singer-songwriter Gaby Moreno has become a major voice in the Latin music scene . As Unicef 's first goodwill ambassador from Guatemala , she champions children 's rights , working to improve access to education in her home country , where millions of children remain outside the school system . <p> Chlo ? Zhao , UK ( Film Director ) <p> Chlo ? Zhao , best known for her Oscar-winning film Nomadland , continues to break new ground in Hollywood . As the first woman of colour to win an Academy Award for best director , Zhao 's work amplifies the voices of marginalized communities . This year , she 's focused on her latest project , an adaptation of " Hamnet " , due for release in 2025 . <p> Noella Wiyaala Nwadei , Ghana ( Afro-pop Musician ) <p> Wiyaala , known for her unique fashion and powerful Afro-pop sound , uses her platform to combat child marriage and highlight African women 's struggles . As a fashion designer and musician , she combines artistry with activism , promoting employment and creativity in northern Ghana . <p> Madison Tevlin , Canada ( Talk-show Host and Model ) <p> Madison Tevlin , a talk-show host and model with Down syndrome , shattered stereotypes with her viral campaign Assume That I Can . Garnering over 150 million views , Tevlin has become a global advocate for inclusion and has spoken at major platforms such as the Clinton Global Initiative . <p> Hend Sabry , Tunisia ( Actress ) <p> As one of the most prominent actresses in Arab cinema , Hend Sabry has consistently used her roles to challenge societal norms . This year , she starred in Four Daughters , Tunisia 's Oscar entry , while also resigning as a UN goodwill ambassador in protest against the humanitarian crisis in Gaza . <p> The theme of this year 's BBC 100 Women list is resilience -- acknowledging the toll of 2024 's crises on women across the globe and celebrating those who have risen to meet these challenges head-on . From climate pioneers to cultural icons , the honorees represent diverse fields and geographies , united by their commitment to making a difference in their communities and beyond . 
@@118481285 <h> Israel treating Palestinians ' as a subhuman group ' <p> Amnesty International yesterday accused Israel of " committing genocide " against Palestinians in Gaza since the start of the war last year , saying its new report was a " wake-up call " for the world . <p> The London-based rights organisation said its findings were based on satellite images documenting devastation , fieldwork and ground reports from Gazans as well as " dehumanising and genocidal statements by Israeli government and military officials " . <p> Amnesty chief Agnes Callamard accused Israel of treating the Palestinians in Gaza " as a subhuman group unworthy of human rights and dignity , demonstrating its intent to physically destroy them . <p> " Our damning findings must serve as a wake-up call to the international community : this is genocide . It must stop now , " she said in a statement . <p> The Palestinian group Hamas launched an unprecedented attack on Israel on October 7 , 2023 , triggering a deadly Israeli military offensive on Gaza as Israeli officials vowed to crush the militant group . <p> The Hamas attack that sparked the war resulted in the deaths of 1,208 people in southern Israel , mostly civilians , according to an AFP tally based on official data . <p> Since then at least 44,580 people have been killed in Gaza , mostly civilians , according to the Hamas-run health ministry , deemed reliable by the UN . <p> Independent UN rights experts have accused Israel several times of genocide , and South Africa dragged the country to the UN 's top court in December 2023 accusing Israel of " violating the genocide convention by promoting the destruction of Palestinians living in Gaza " in a case which is still ongoing . <p> But Israeli officials have repeatedly and forcefully denied all such allegations , accusing Hamas of using civilians as human shields . <p> " The deplorable and fanatical organisation Amnesty International has once again produced a fabricated report that is entirely false and based on lies , " Israel 's foreign ministry said . <p> " Israel is defending itself ... acting fully in accordance with international law " , it added . <p> But Callamard insisted at a press conference in The Hague that " the existence of military objectives does not negate the possibility of a genocidal intent . " <p> She said Amnesty had based its findings on the criteria set out in the UN Convention on the Prevention of Genocide . <p> But an Israeli army spokesperson said the report 's claims " fail to account for the operational realities faced by the IDF . <p> " The IDF takes all feasible measures to mitigate harm to civilians during operations . These include providing advance warnings to civilians in combat zones whenever feasible and facilitating safe movement to designated areas . " <p> Amnesty 's 300-page report points to " direct deliberate attacks on civilian and civilian infrastructures where there was no Hamas presence or any other military objectives " as well as the blocking of aid deliveries , and the displacement of 90 percent of Gaza 's 2.4 million people . <p> Palestinians have been subjected to " malnutrition , hunger and diseases " and exposed to a " slow , calculated death " , Amnesty said . <p> The rights group , which is also due to publish a report on the crimes committed by Hamas , cited 15 air strikes in Gaza between October 7 , 2023 and April 20 , which killed 334 civilians , including 141 children , for which the group found " no evidence that any of these strikes were directed at a military objective " . <p> The Amnesty report also referenced dozens of calls by Israeli officials and soldiers for the annihilation , destruction , burning or " erasure " of Gaza . <p> Such statements highlighted " systemic impunity " as well as " an environment that emboldens ... such behaviour " . 
@@118526430 <p> " All of us , Bangladesh , the EU and most importantly the Rohingya themselves , wish to see returns . But , conditions for safe , sustainable , voluntary and dignified return do not currently exist , " he told UNB , sharing his experience of visiting the Rohingya camp in Cox 's Bazar recently . <p> Ambassador and Head of Delegation of the European Union to Bangladesh Michael Miller has said they all understand that the solution to the protracted Rohingya crisis is " political " and said they should work with Dhaka to promote a ' Whole of Cox 's Bazar ' approach . <p> " All of us , Bangladesh , the EU and most importantly the Rohingya themselves , wish to see returns . But , conditions for safe , sustainable , voluntary and dignified return do not currently exist , " he told UNB , sharing his experience of visiting the Rohingya camp in Cox 's Bazar recently . <p> In the meantime , therefore , an " evolution " is needed in the response to allow more work on resilience , said the Ambassador . <p> This means , according to him , giving due consideration to allowing the construction of sturdier shelters that will make donor funding last longer , and for which there is a series of prototypes currently being tested . <p> " It should also mean exploring how to promote greater resilience for the refugees and opening up digital education to avoid a situation in which desperate people are vulnerable to crime , exploitation and recruitment to fight in Myanmar , " Ambassador Miller said . <p> The European Union recognises the burden borne by Bangladesh in hosting the Rohingya refugees , he said . <p> Bangladesh is hosting over 1.3 million Rohingyas in Cox 's Bazar and Bhasan Char . <p> In 2024 , the EU has allocated EUR 43 million in humanitarian funding for the Rohingya response , for immediate disbursement , and a further EUR 35 million in development funding for the next three years . <p> " We are supporting both the refugees and host communities . This is why I visited Cox 's Bazar in October to understand what the situation is on the ground , to listen to Bengalis ( Bangladeshis ) and Rohingya and to consider how to maximise the impact and sustainability of our financing , " said Ambassador Miller . <p> " Security , or rather insecurity " , was the number one topic that he heard in the camps , he said . <p> " Outside the camps , we have worked , and continue to work , to promote a dynamic economy at the interface between the local economy and the camps . I only heard positive noises on our cooperation , reinforcing my sense that we should work with Dhaka to promote a ' Whole of Cox 's Bazar ' approach , " the EU envoy added . <p> " It has already received widespread international support , " said Spokesperson at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Mohammad Rafiqul Alam . <p> He expressed hope that this high-level conference will build political consensus on a realistic framework for the sustainable repatriation and reintegration of the Rohingya in Myanmar . <p> Rafiqul Alam said the plan will also play an important role in addressing the root causes of the crisis and developing a timely and comprehensive framework to address the current situation . <p> Besides , he said , the conference will focus on addressing socio-economic , environmental and security challenges , mitigating the impact of the long-term damage caused by the Rohingya situation . <p> " We also hope that the issues of increasing international commitment to resolving this problem , strengthening integrated humanitarian and development processes , and supporting accountability for crimes committed against the Rohingya population will emerge , " said the Spokesperson . <p> Chief Adviser Prof Yunus has called for an " urgent attention " to the Rohingya crisis , including convening an international conference , to find a sustainable solution to the crisis and ensuring " safe and dignified " return of the Rohingya people to Myanmar . <p> " We can not ignore the people who continue to be persecuted , uprooted and subjected to gross violations of human rights in the Rakhine State ( Myanmar ) or Gaza . No person , regardless of their number or identity , is expandable , " he said in October . 
@@118603008 <p> International Atomic Energy Agency Director General Rafael Mariano Grossi during a meeting with the Japanese government in Tokyo Thursday , March 14 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Eugene Hoshiko , Pool , File ) <p> Iran is on the verge of dramatically increasing its stockpile of near-weapons-grade uranium , as it has activated cascades of advanced centrifuges , warned Rafael Mariano Grossi , the head of the International Atomic Energy Agency ( IAEA ) , on Friday . <p> His remarks came shortly after Iran claimed a successful space launch , marking its heaviest payload to date , a development that the West believes enhances Tehran 's ballistic missile capabilities . <p> The launch of the Simorgh rocket coincides with Iran 's uranium enrichment at 60% , a step away from weapons-grade levels of 90% . While Iran asserts that its nuclear program is peaceful , officials are increasingly hinting at the potential development of nuclear weapons and intercontinental ballistic missiles to target distant adversaries , including the United States . <p> These actions are likely to escalate tensions in the broader Middle East , especially with the ongoing conflict between Israel and Hamas in Gaza and an uneasy ceasefire in Lebanon . However , Iran might also be positioning itself for possible negotiations with President-elect Donald Trump 's administration , following the U.S. withdrawal from the nuclear deal during his first term . <p> A recent U.S. intelligence report stated that while Iran is not actively building a nuclear weapon , it is undertaking activities that would enable it to do so if it chooses . The report also warned that the debate within Iran over pursuing nuclear weapons could strengthen advocates for such a course , potentially influencing future Iranian leadership . <p> Grossi , speaking to journalists at the Manama Dialogue in Bahrain , said that IAEA inspectors planned to verify how many centrifuges Iran is operating after the country informed the agency of its plans . He expressed concern , noting that Iran had kept many facilities in reserve , now activating them , which could lead to a significant increase in uranium enrichment . <p> An IAEA statement confirmed that Iran had begun feeding uranium , enriched to 20% , into two cascades of advanced IR-6 centrifuges at its underground Fordo facility . The advanced IR-6 centrifuges enrich uranium faster than the IR-1 centrifuges , and using uranium enriched to 20% will expedite the process further . <p> The IAEA also noted that Iran would begin feeding natural uranium into eight additional IR-6 cascades at Fordo to produce 5%-enriched uranium . <p> In late November , the IAEA had warned that Iran was preparing to use advanced centrifuges to enrich uranium , a move triggered by its failure to fully cooperate with the agency . Iran did not comment on the preparations . <p> Meanwhile , Iran 's successful Simorgh rocket launch took place at the Imam Khomeini Spaceport in Semnan province . The rocket carried an orbital propulsion system and the Fakhr-1 military satellite , marking the first time a military payload was included in Iran 's civilian space program . <p> The U.S. military referred questions about the launch to Space Command , which did not respond . Experts confirmed the successful insertion of the payload into orbit . <p> The United States has criticized Iran 's satellite launches , arguing they violate a U.N . Security Council resolution that bans activities related to ballistic missiles capable of carrying nuclear warheads . U.N . sanctions on Iran 's missile program expired in October 2023 . <p> The U.S. intelligence community noted that Iran 's space-launch vehicles , including the Simorgh , could accelerate the development of intercontinental ballistic missiles due to their shared technological similarities . <p> Despite Iran 's denials of seeking nuclear weapons , U.S. and IAEA reports indicate that Iran had a military nuclear program until 2003 . Under former President Hassan Rouhani , Iran had slowed its space program to avoid escalating tensions with the West . However , the late President Ebrahim Raisi , who took office in 2021 , pushed the program forward . His successor , President Masoud Pezeshkian , has yet to announce a clear strategy on space ambitions , while the Revolutionary Guard also conducted a successful launch in September . 
@@118678386 <h> US keen to support Syrian leaders on conditions <p> The Biden administration announced its readiness to support a new Syrian government that upholds minority rights , protects women , renounces terrorism , and dismantles chemical weapon stockpiles . Secretary of State Antony Blinken emphasized the importance of a smooth transition post-Assad and urged an inclusive and transparent process for determining Syria 's future , with minimal external interference . <p> This commitment comes after the sudden collapse of Bashar Assad 's regime , led by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , a group classified as a terrorist organization by the U.S. since 2012 . While the State Department remains open to revisiting HTS 's designation , discussions with the group are n't ruled out . Florida Rep. Mike Waltz , named as President-elect Donald Trump 's national security adviser , noted cautious optimism about HTS 's initial actions but highlighted ongoing scrutiny of its conduct . <p> Meanwhile , Israel has launched strikes targeting Syrian military and chemical facilities and taken control of a buffer zone in the Golan Heights , asserting national security imperatives . The U.S. expressed support for Israel 's self-defense rights while reaffirming its stance on the 1974 Golan Heights disengagement agreement . <p> In parallel , Biden 's national security adviser , Jake Sullivan , is engaging in discussions with Israeli officials to address the evolving Syrian situation and ongoing efforts to negotiate a ceasefire and hostage deal in Gaza . The U.S. hopes these developments will further isolate groups like Hamas and encourage negotiated solutions . 
@@118678408 <p> Young people must take up the fight for a nuclear-free world , with such weapons many times more powerful than in the past , a representative for this year 's Nobel Peace Prize laureate , atomic bomb survivors ' group Nihon Hidankyo , said on Tuesday . <p> Nihon Hidankyo , a grassroots movement of survivors of the 1945 nuclear bombings of Japanese cities Hiroshima and Nagasaki , is campaigning for a world free of nuclear weapons using witness testimony . <p> The average age of Japan 's atomic bomb survivors is now 85 , Terumi Tanaka , a co-chair of the group , said when accepting the prize at a ceremony held at Oslo City Hall attended by Norway 's King Harald , Queen Sonja and other dignitaries . <p> " Any one of you could become either a victim or a perpetrator , at any time , " Tanaka , 92 , told the audience . <p> " Ten years from now , there may only be a handful of us able to give testimony as firsthand survivors . From now on , I hope that the next generation will find ways to build on our efforts and develop the movement even further . " <p> His group had " undoubtedly " played a major role in creating the worldwide standard that it was unacceptable to use atomic weapons , or ' nuclear taboo ' , he said . But that standard was being weakened , he added . <p> " In addition to the civilian casualties , I am infinitely saddened and angered that the ' nuclear taboo ' risks being broken , " he said . <p> Threats to use nuclear weapons had been made in the ongoing wars in Ukraine and Gaza , Tanaka said , warning that 4,000 nuclear warheads were ready to be launched immediately around the world . <p> Nihon Hidankyo is also represented at the ceremony by its two other co-chairs , Shigemitsu Tanaka , 84 , and Toshiyuki Mimaki , 82 . <p> An estimated 210,000 people died , either immediately or over time , as a result of the bombs dropped in 1945 on Hiroshima and Nagasaki on Aug 6 and Aug 9 , respectively . Today 's nuclear weapons are far more powerful than those used at that time . <p> Tanaka was 13 years old at the time of the Nagasaki bombing , and although he survived the explosion almost unharmed at his home some 3 km ( 1.9 miles ) from ground zero , he lost five family members and recalled harrowing encounters . <p> " The deaths I witnessed at that time could hardly be described as human deaths . There were hundreds of people suffering in agony , unable to receive any kind of medical attention , " Tanaka told the audience . <p> " I strongly felt that even in war , such killing and maiming must never be allowed to happen . " 
@@118722822 <h> Blinken to visit Mideast for talks amid regional tensions <p> US Secretary of State Antony Blinken looks on as he receives the Royal Order of the Polar Star ahead of the start of the 31st Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe ( OSCE ) Ministerial summit in Ta'Qali , Malta on Thursday , December 5 , 2024 . ( Alberto Pizzoli/Pool Photo via AP ) <p> US Secretary of State Antony Blinken is set to embark on his 12th trip to the Middle East since the onset of the Israel-Hamas conflict last year . <p> This visit marks his first since Syrian President Bashar Assad 's recent departure to Russia , an event that has heightened regional uncertainty . <p> Blinken 's two-day itinerary will include stops in Jordan and Turkey , with discussions centered on Syria and broader efforts to end the Gaza conflict that has ravaged the Palestinian territory since October 2023 . <p> According to the State Department , Blinken will meet Jordanian leaders , including King Abdullah II , in Aqaba on Thursday before heading to Ankara for talks with Turkish officials on Friday . Additional regional visits remain a possibility . <p> The Biden administration is intensifying its diplomatic engagement in the Middle East as it navigates complex crises during its final weeks in office . <p> President-elect Donald Trump has stated that the US should avoid entanglement in Syria , while the Biden administration continues to conduct airstrikes and maintain a military presence to prevent an Islamic State resurgence amid Syria 's ongoing turmoil . <p> State Department spokesperson Matthew Miller emphasized that Blinken 's visit aims to reaffirm US support for a Syrian-led transition to a representative and accountable government . <p> Blinken has signaled US willingness to back a new Syrian government meeting these conditions . While American officials maintain the foreign terrorist organization designation of Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , once linked to al-Qaida , they have not ruled out dialogue with its members . <p> Ahead of his trip , Blinken spoke with the foreign ministers of Egypt , Jordan , Qatar and the UAE to reinforce US positions on Syria and stress the urgency of a Gaza ceasefire . The US continues to push for the release of hostages taken by Hamas and a framework for post-war governance , security , and reconstruction in Gaza . <p> Blinken 's visit follows Syrian President Assad 's flight to Russia over the weekend . Meanwhile , other senior US officials , including National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan and Army Gen Erik Kurilla are engaging with leaders across the region . <p> Trump 's designated Middle East envoy , Stephen Witkoff , is also active in the region as the US prepares for a presidential transition . 
@@118767724 <p> No two regime-toppling events are similar , yet there are some uncanny resemblances between the overthrow of Bashar al-Assad and Sheikh Hasina . Both seemed invincible but fell like a house of cards , clung to power for long yet disappeared within days , claimed popularity yet had little knowledge of how unpopular they had become . Both felt they stood on sturdy daises , but they were moth-eaten ones to the core . Both convinced themselves that they controlled the narrative yet were unaware that nobody trusted them . Both felt they were irreplaceable figures of history , but were replaced within days of their defeat without their people batting an eye . Both believed that ruling their people was their God-given right , hence they did n't need to take their people 's mandate . So brutal , atrocious and heartless were their reigns that both had to flee and seek asylum abroad . They had no place in their countries , which they both thought they owned . <p> The Syrian revolution is the latest piece in the ever-changing world that Bangladesh will have to deal with as it forges ahead . The big question is : do we have the requisite expertise for it ? <p> Foreign policy is among the least discussed subjects in Bangladesh . It is always shrouded in the mist of bureaucratic maze . In the 33 years of my experience with this daily , I can not recall a single instance where foreign policy was discussed by the government in any public forum . Our parliament failed itself and the voters by never bringing it up in the House . Discussions by private think tanks or newspapers could go only so far . <p> None of the reform commissions is on foreign policy . This is indicative of our own sense of priority -- or the lack of it . If not a commission , we could at least have officially brought some of our former foreign secretaries , senior bureaucrats , former ambassadors , academicians and security experts together to discuss how to navigate through the ever-changing geopolitical reality . <p> Take our relationship with India . One look at the map will tell you how vital , complex , multi-faceted and intricate our geolocation is , and the high-quality multidisciplinary expertise we need to get the best deal for ourselves . I have often wondered why we do n't have specialised institutes to study our foreign relations , especially with our big neighbour . Do we really know what our only other neighbour is all about ? The Rohingya issue should have driven home the point that we need geopolitics to solve it a long time ago . <p> Every university of repute should have courses that could produce specialists on these issues . The rise of the Arakan Army , which now controls our border with Myanmar , has suddenly brought home a new reality . Do we have the expertise to handle it , or even understand it ? <p> In my long years as the editor of The Daily Star , I realised that when we talk about relations with India , we most often think of New Delhi and Kolkata and at best Mumbai . We have very little idea of South India where India 's IT hub is located , and from where our startups and IT entrepreneurs could have learnt . How do we forge a new , win-win , non-hegemonistic and mutually beneficial and respectful relationship with India ? The answer is clearly knowledge , competence and belief in ourselves . While we have the latter , we need significant work on the first two . We need coolheaded experts to sit together , do all the calculations , make the facts public , and make a stable and mutually beneficial relationship that benefits us both . Any one-sided agreement is bound to fail . <p> The just concluded trip by the Indian foreign secretary , we ardently hope , will mark some progress in our relationship that has shown some disturbing signs lately . Honestly , we have been totally outraged and deeply disappointed at the depiction of Bangladesh by the Indian media . <p> Take the case of the repercussions of the Syrian regime change . What was Russia 's role in the sudden collapse of its long term ally -- Assad -- to maintain whom Putin invested hundreds of billions ? The common wisdom is , the Ukraine war drained too much resources from Russia . He needed to make a choice about allocating additional resources , and he chose Ukraine . So what will be Russia 's new strategy ? Will it abandon Syria ? <p> What is the story of Iran ? It did extend all its support to Assad and for a while felt comfortable being on the winning side . The destruction of Hamas in Gaza and subsequent diminishing of Hezbollah in Lebanon -- both being integral parts of the forces that helped Assad stay in power -- created the opening for the rebels to make their breakthrough . The impact on Iran is still not clear , but it definitely stands weakened . <p> Israel 's bombing of Syrian military assets -- 480 airstrikes in 48 hours -- is the clearest indication of how this war-mongering country is taking advantage of the situation . It has been more than a year since it started carrying out the most cruel and destructive bombing and killing of the Gazans . <p> Then it invaded Lebanon and killed thousands of ordinary citizens in the name of destroying Hezbollah . Israeli soldiers were spotted way into the Syrian territories around the Golan Heights , which President Donald Trump allowed Israel to annex during his first term . Israel is indiscriminately attacking some of its neighbours with complete impunity -- without the UN Security Council condemning it for such a blatant violation of international law . <p> What its policy will be vis- ? -vis Iran is the big question . When a country 's foray inside other countries goes unchallenged , in fact encouraged , how far it will take its aggression remains unclear . History has very dangerous lessons in this regard . <p> T ? rkiye has definitely emerged as a more active player with its president now holding more cards than before . <p> Relations with the US under President Trump will be quite a challenge for Bangladesh . The former prime minister 's offensive and unexplained comments on the US has left a bad taste in the mouth of the State Department officials . Trump 's message on X before the election clearly shows the nature of our future challenge . <p> Our only counterbalancing factor is the respect that Chief Adviser Prof Muhammad Yunus enjoys in the US , being one of the very few recipients in US history of the two highest civilian medals : the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2009 and the Congressional Gold Medal in 2010 . Both were bipartisan honours . <p> It is this uncertain world that Bangladesh 's foreign policy will have to navigate . The first and the most important thing we have to understand is that whatever emotion and feelings that may drive us in domestic affairs , when dealing with foreign policy , we need pragmatism . There is , of course , our own idealism and world view , but the only way forward is being a realist . While flexing muscle can be an option for the big powers , for us , making our case logically , factually and convincingly and gathering global opinion to back it is the only answer . <p> The new Bangladesh must persuasively tell its story to the world . It must be able to convince others that we want to build a free , just , inclusive , tolerant , equal and democratic society internally , and a peaceful and just international order globally . For that , words and speeches are not sufficient . We need performance that produces powerful facts , and for that we need all-round expertise . <p> No two regime-toppling events are similar , yet there are some uncanny resemblances between the overthrow of Bashar al-Assad and Sheikh Hasina . Both seemed invincible but fell like a house of cards , clung to power for long yet disappeared within days , claimed popularity yet had little knowledge of how unpopular they had become . Both felt they stood on sturdy daises , but they were moth-eaten ones to the core . Both convinced themselves that they controlled the narrative yet were unaware that nobody trusted them . Both felt they were irreplaceable figures of history , but were replaced within days of their defeat without their people batting an eye . Both believed that ruling their people was their God-given right , hence they did n't need to take their people 's mandate . So brutal , atrocious and heartless were their reigns that both had to flee and seek asylum abroad . They had no place in their countries , which they both thought they owned . <p> The Syrian revolution is the latest piece in the ever-changing world that Bangladesh will have to deal with as it forges ahead . The big question is : do we have the requisite expertise for it ? <p> Foreign policy is among the least discussed subjects in Bangladesh . It is always shrouded in the mist of bureaucratic maze . In the 33 years of my experience with this daily , I can not recall a single instance where foreign policy was discussed by the government in any public forum . Our parliament failed itself and the voters by never bringing it up in the House . Discussions by private think tanks or newspapers could go only so far . <p> None of the reform commissions is on foreign policy . This is indicative of our own sense of priority -- or the lack of it . If not a commission , we could at least have officially brought some of our former foreign secretaries , senior bureaucrats , former ambassadors , academicians and security experts together to discuss how to navigate through the ever-changing geopolitical reality . <p> Take our relationship with India . One look at the map will tell you how vital , complex , multi-faceted and intricate our geolocation is , and the high-quality multidisciplinary expertise we need to get the best deal for ourselves . I have often wondered why we do n't have specialised institutes to study our foreign relations , especially with our big neighbour . Do we really know what our only other neighbour is all about ? The Rohingya issue should have driven home the point that we need geopolitics to solve it a long time ago . <p> Every university of repute should have courses that could produce specialists on these issues . The rise of the Arakan Army , which now controls our border with Myanmar , has suddenly brought home a new reality . Do we have the expertise to handle it , or even understand it ? <p> In my long years as the editor of The Daily Star , I realised that when we talk about relations with India , we most often think of New Delhi and Kolkata and at best Mumbai . We have very little idea of South India where India 's IT hub is located , and from where our startups and IT entrepreneurs could have learnt . How do we forge a new , win-win , non-hegemonistic and mutually beneficial and respectful relationship with India ? The answer is clearly knowledge , competence and belief in ourselves . While we have the latter , we need significant work on the first two . We need coolheaded experts to sit together , do all the calculations , make the facts public , and make a stable and mutually beneficial relationship that benefits us both . Any one-sided agreement is bound to fail . <p> The just concluded trip by the Indian foreign secretary , we ardently hope , will mark some progress in our relationship that has shown some disturbing signs lately . Honestly , we have been totally outraged and deeply disappointed at the depiction of Bangladesh by the Indian media . <p> Take the case of the repercussions of the Syrian regime change . What was Russia 's role in the sudden collapse of its long term ally -- Assad -- to maintain whom Putin invested hundreds of billions ? The common wisdom is , the Ukraine war drained too much resources from Russia . He needed to make a choice about allocating additional resources , and he chose Ukraine . So what will be Russia 's new strategy ? Will it abandon Syria ? <p> What is the story of Iran ? It did extend all its support to Assad and for a while felt comfortable being on the winning side . The destruction of Hamas in Gaza and subsequent diminishing of Hezbollah in Lebanon -- both being integral parts of the forces that helped Assad stay in power -- created the opening for the rebels to make their breakthrough . The impact on Iran is still not clear , but it definitely stands weakened . <p> Israel 's bombing of Syrian military assets -- 480 airstrikes in 48 hours -- is the clearest indication of how this war-mongering country is taking advantage of the situation . It has been more than a year since it started carrying out the most cruel and destructive bombing and killing of the Gazans . <p> Then it invaded Lebanon and killed thousands of ordinary citizens in the name of destroying Hezbollah . Israeli soldiers were spotted way into the Syrian territories around the Golan Heights , which President Donald Trump allowed Israel to annex during his first term . Israel is indiscriminately attacking some of its neighbours with complete impunity -- without the UN Security Council condemning it for such a blatant violation of international law . <p> What its policy will be vis- ? -vis Iran is the big question . When a country 's foray inside other countries goes unchallenged , in fact encouraged , how far it will take its aggression remains unclear . History has very dangerous lessons in this regard . <p> T ? rkiye has definitely emerged as a more active player with its president now holding more cards than before . <p> Relations with the US under President Trump will be quite a challenge for Bangladesh . The former prime minister 's offensive and unexplained comments on the US has left a bad taste in the mouth of the State Department officials . Trump 's message on X before the election clearly shows the nature of our future challenge . <p> Our only counterbalancing factor is the respect that Chief Adviser Prof Muhammad Yunus enjoys in the US , being one of the very few recipients in US history of the two highest civilian medals : the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2009 and the Congressional Gold Medal in 2010 . Both were bipartisan honours . <p> It is this uncertain world that Bangladesh 's foreign policy will have to navigate . The first and the most important thing we have to understand is that whatever emotion and feelings that may drive us in domestic affairs , when dealing with foreign policy , we need pragmatism . There is , of course , our own idealism and world view , but the only way forward is being a realist . While flexing muscle can be an option for the big powers , for us , making our case logically , factually and convincingly and gathering global opinion to back it is the only answer . <p> The new Bangladesh must persuasively tell its story to the world . It must be able to convince others that we want to build a free , just , inclusive , tolerant , equal and democratic society internally , and a peaceful and just international order globally . For that , words and speeches are not sufficient . We need performance that produces powerful facts , and for that we need all-round expertise . 
@@118767763 <p> At least 36 Palestinians were killed early yesterday in Israeli bombings of various areas in the Gaza Strip , the Palestinian news agency WAFA reported . <p> Children and women were among seven killed when a residential building in Gaza City 's al-Jalaa Street was bombed , WAFA said . Another 15 were killed in the bombing of a house where displaced people were taking shelter , west of Nuseirat camp in the central Gaza Strip , the agency added . <p> In the western area of Rafah city , south of the Gaza Strip , 13 Palestinians were killed and others were injured , according to WAFA , in a strike that hit people providing aid . <p> Earlier , medics said at least 30 people were also wounded in the Rafah attack , with several in critical condition . <p> In the city of Khan Younis , another group of men tasked with security for aid shipments was hit by a separate Israeli airstrike that wounded several of them , medics said . At least 44,835 Palestinians have been killed in Israel 's offensive on Gaza since October 7 , 2023 . <p> Meanwhile , Israelis and Palestinians are signalling new efforts to forge a ceasefire deal , their first in a year , to pause the fighting in Gaza and return to Israel at least some of the 100 hostages still held in the Palestinian enclave . <p> The guarded optimism emerges as US President Joe Biden 's national security adviser Jake Sullivan held talks with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in Israel yesterday before heading to Egypt and Qatar , co-mediators with the US on a deal . <p> At least 36 Palestinians were killed early yesterday in Israeli bombings of various areas in the Gaza Strip , the Palestinian news agency WAFA reported . <p> Children and women were among seven killed when a residential building in Gaza City 's al-Jalaa Street was bombed , WAFA said . Another 15 were killed in the bombing of a house where displaced people were taking shelter , west of Nuseirat camp in the central Gaza Strip , the agency added . <p> In the western area of Rafah city , south of the Gaza Strip , 13 Palestinians were killed and others were injured , according to WAFA , in a strike that hit people providing aid . <p> Earlier , medics said at least 30 people were also wounded in the Rafah attack , with several in critical condition . <p> In the city of Khan Younis , another group of men tasked with security for aid shipments was hit by a separate Israeli airstrike that wounded several of them , medics said . At least 44,835 Palestinians have been killed in Israel 's offensive on Gaza since October 7 , 2023 . <p> Meanwhile , Israelis and Palestinians are signalling new efforts to forge a ceasefire deal , their first in a year , to pause the fighting in Gaza and return to Israel at least some of the 100 hostages still held in the Palestinian enclave . <p> The guarded optimism emerges as US President Joe Biden 's national security adviser Jake Sullivan held talks with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in Israel yesterday before heading to Egypt and Qatar , co-mediators with the US on a deal . 
@@118813086 <h> Hate is bringing us closer to our own extinction <p> We are living in a time when the whole world seems to be consumed by one overpowering emotion : hate . Clusters of hate emanate from every corner . Hate complemented by fear has become a powerful , effective political tool used by leaders , groups , media outlets and YouTubers in order to fulfil an agenda . Because nothing unites people more than hate these days ; it creates a common enemy and forms a groupthink against the " other . " It unites people and allows them to overlook flaws or differences of the group members for the time being to fight that common enemy that is the root cause of all misery . <p> However , while hatred for something harmful to people can sometimes yield positive outcomes , such as the people 's uprising against a repressive regime in Bangladesh in July-August 2024 , it can also become a venomous tool when used to falsify truth and manipulate people to act violently against a target . The spread of false propaganda against Bangladesh by certain Indian media outlets illustrates this danger , exploiting pre-existing anti-Muslim sentiments to instil hostility and resentment . Politicians in India have long used hate speech to demonise Bangladeshis , particularly Bangalee Muslim immigrants , reinforcing the idea that their presence would " pollute " India . Politicians in India have openly called Bangladeshis " termites " and " infiltrators " many times . This foundation of hate laid by political figures continues to fuel hostility , as evidenced by the recent events surrounding the arrest of Chinmoy Krishna Das , a Bangladeshi Hindu monk and former ISKCON leader , which spurred a campaign of hate against Bangladesh in India . <p> Some Indian media have had a field day cashing in on this hate by spreading all kinds of disinformation . Without any qualms , these media outlets have been showing video footage and pictures falsely implying that they were of Hindus being persecuted . So far , these images and footage have been debunked by fact-checkers , but the damage has been done . The hate has already spread . <p> And as we know , hate begets hate . The attack on the Bangladesh Assistant High Commission office in Tripura 's Agartala , with the Bangladesh flag being burnt or desecrated , have successfully provoked the anger and hatred on this side of the border . In Bangladesh , Indian flags have been disrespected , and political and religious groups have marched towards the Indian High Commissions -- though there have been no attacks . But the seed of mistrust has been sown deeper into many hearts . Following the arrest of Chinmoy , a few Indian doctors said they would refuse to treat any Bangladeshis -- a decision they reversed later . The hotel owners ' association in Tripura announced they would not allow Bangladeshis to stay there , but this too was reversed when hoteliers realised the financial losses that would be incurred after such a decision . Meanwhile in Bangladesh , while the government is trying hard to calm tensions and unite various groups to avoid any communal clashes , there have been a few hate-related incidents of violence . A Hindu lawyer was critically wounded in Dhaka after he got caught in a clash at Shahbagh , during a demonstration by members of Hindu community protesting Chinmoy 's arrest . A young boy had to be taken into custody by the army because he allegedly commented on Facebook which was deemed to be hurtful to the religious sentiments of Muslims . Temples have been vandalised and business places of Hindus have been attacked . <p> Why is hate such a favourite political tool ? The politics of hate flourishes on fear and division . The fear of the " other , " whether it is about " them " taking away our jobs or trying to eradicate our culture or threatening our religion , the " us vs them " debate is the most effective way to psychologically influence the public . <p> Hate often comes from a feeling of alienation or the need to belong to some group -- a religion , race , ideology or nationality . Because it gives a sense of security and comfort . So , everyone else not in this group is an alien and must be treated with suspicion . <p> We are now going through times of extreme anxiety caused by economic uncertainty , rapid social change , and complex global issues . It is overwhelming and stressful . We feel angry and powerless . We need a punching bag , someone or some group to blame for our state of helplessness . This is the perfect environment for political hate to thrive . Politicians all over the world have capitalised on this by projecting messages of hate through mainstream and social media campaigns of disinformation . By fuelling pre-existing prejudices or even creating new ones , the powerful consolidate their power . Thus , hate has been used to justify genocide by dehumanising people ( Best example : Isreal 's relentless military actions to annihilate the Palestinians in Gaza ) , to violently attack members of vulnerable communities in the name of religion , and to label countries as terrorist states for electoral victories and expansionary ambitions . <p> Social media and technology have made it dramatically easier and faster to spread hate . Anyone can publish anything on a social media platform . As we all know , negative content , especially those that promote divisiveness , always does well on social media , thanks to the algorithms . So , hate speech gets even more amplified and further influences the target audience . Media companies , meanwhile , make money out of such content because they get more clicks , shares and comments and hence keep on promoting hate-filled content . <p> So , without even realising it , people become the stooges of this vicious cycle . <p> But is there no way out of this cesspool of vitriol that only results in death and destruction ? Do we not realise that the path of hatred is a suicidal journey for humankind ? <p> Bangladesh has historically been a region of religious harmony and multiculturalism . Over the decades , unfortunately , this has changed with pluralism being overshadowed by religious dogmatism . Foreign ideologies have seeped into the void left by the undemocratic nature of democratic governments , leaving people with no choice but to take one side over the other . Those wanting to brainwash people will convince them to hate anyone who does not conform to their way of thinking . Meanwhile , those who consider themselves " progressive " fall into the trap of othering groups that do n't share their perspectives , thus perpetuating the sequence of mistrust , fear and hate . <p> The good news is every poison has its antidote , and so does hate . The cure lies in embracing empathy , compassion , and kindness -- precious virtues that must be protected , nurtured , and spread across communities and nations . We must recognise our shared humanity , one that transcends every barrier , be it religion , nationality , ethnicity , class or gender . We must rise above the urge to simplify complex issues and blame others . Instead , we must strive to truly connect with one another , seek to understand diverse perspectives and craft solutions that uplift us all , not just a select few . <p> Time is running out for us humans . We are on the brink of extinction from the consequences of our greed and ignorance , and hate is the rolling rock that will push us over the cliff . It 's time to stand together and push back on hate . It 's the only way we will survive . <h> Hate is bringing us closer to our own extinction <p> We are living in a time when the whole world seems to be consumed by one overpowering emotion : hate . Clusters of hate emanate from every corner . Hate complemented by fear has become a powerful , effective political tool used by leaders , groups , media outlets and YouTubers in order to fulfil an agenda . Because nothing unites people more than hate these days ; it creates a common enemy and forms a groupthink against the " other . " It unites people and allows them to overlook flaws or differences of the group members for the time being to fight that common enemy that is the root cause of all misery . <p> However , while hatred for something harmful to people can sometimes yield positive outcomes , such as the people 's uprising against a repressive regime in Bangladesh in July-August 2024 , it can also become a venomous tool when used to falsify truth and manipulate people to act violently against a target . The spread of false propaganda against Bangladesh by certain Indian media outlets illustrates this danger , exploiting pre-existing anti-Muslim sentiments to instil hostility and resentment . Politicians in India have long used hate speech to demonise Bangladeshis , particularly Bangalee Muslim immigrants , reinforcing the idea that their presence would " pollute " India . Politicians in India have openly called Bangladeshis " termites " and " infiltrators " many times . This foundation of hate laid by political figures continues to fuel hostility , as evidenced by the recent events surrounding the arrest of Chinmoy Krishna Das , a Bangladeshi Hindu monk and former ISKCON leader , which spurred a campaign of hate against Bangladesh in India . <p> Some Indian media have had a field day cashing in on this hate by spreading all kinds of disinformation . Without any qualms , these media outlets have been showing video footage and pictures falsely implying that they were of Hindus being persecuted . So far , these images and footage have been debunked by fact-checkers , but the damage has been done . The hate has already spread . <p> And as we know , hate begets hate . The attack on the Bangladesh Assistant High Commission office in Tripura 's Agartala , with the Bangladesh flag being burnt or desecrated , have successfully provoked the anger and hatred on this side of the border . In Bangladesh , Indian flags have been disrespected , and political and religious groups have marched towards the Indian High Commissions -- though there have been no attacks . But the seed of mistrust has been sown deeper into many hearts . Following the arrest of Chinmoy , a few Indian doctors said they would refuse to treat any Bangladeshis -- a decision they reversed later . The hotel owners ' association in Tripura announced they would not allow Bangladeshis to stay there , but this too was reversed when hoteliers realised the financial losses that would be incurred after such a decision . Meanwhile in Bangladesh , while the government is trying hard to calm tensions and unite various groups to avoid any communal clashes , there have been a few hate-related incidents of violence . A Hindu lawyer was critically wounded in Dhaka after he got caught in a clash at Shahbagh , during a demonstration by members of Hindu community protesting Chinmoy 's arrest . A young boy had to be taken into custody by the army because he allegedly commented on Facebook which was deemed to be hurtful to the religious sentiments of Muslims . Temples have been vandalised and business places of Hindus have been attacked . <p> Why is hate such a favourite political tool ? The politics of hate flourishes on fear and division . The fear of the " other , " whether it is about " them " taking away our jobs or trying to eradicate our culture or threatening our religion , the " us vs them " debate is the most effective way to psychologically influence the public . <p> Hate often comes from a feeling of alienation or the need to belong to some group -- a religion , race , ideology or nationality . Because it gives a sense of security and comfort . So , everyone else not in this group is an alien and must be treated with suspicion . <p> We are now going through times of extreme anxiety caused by economic uncertainty , rapid social change , and complex global issues . It is overwhelming and stressful . We feel angry and powerless . We need a punching bag , someone or some group to blame for our state of helplessness . This is the perfect environment for political hate to thrive . Politicians all over the world have capitalised on this by projecting messages of hate through mainstream and social media campaigns of disinformation . By fuelling pre-existing prejudices or even creating new ones , the powerful consolidate their power . Thus , hate has been used to justify genocide by dehumanising people ( Best example : Isreal 's relentless military actions to annihilate the Palestinians in Gaza ) , to violently attack members of vulnerable communities in the name of religion , and to label countries as terrorist states for electoral victories and expansionary ambitions . <p> Social media and technology have made it dramatically easier and faster to spread hate . Anyone can publish anything on a social media platform . As we all know , negative content , especially those that promote divisiveness , always does well on social media , thanks to the algorithms . So , hate speech gets even more amplified and further influences the target audience . Media companies , meanwhile , make money out of such content because they get more clicks , shares and comments and hence keep on promoting hate-filled content . <p> So , without even realising it , people become the stooges of this vicious cycle . <p> But is there no way out of this cesspool of vitriol that only results in death and destruction ? Do we not realise that the path of hatred is a suicidal journey for humankind ? <p> Bangladesh has historically been a region of religious harmony and multiculturalism . Over the decades , unfortunately , this has changed with pluralism being overshadowed by religious dogmatism . Foreign ideologies have seeped into the void left by the undemocratic nature of democratic governments , leaving people with no choice but to take one side over the other . Those wanting to brainwash people will convince them to hate anyone who does not conform to their way of thinking . Meanwhile , those who consider themselves " progressive " fall into the trap of othering groups that do n't share their perspectives , thus perpetuating the sequence of mistrust , fear and hate . <p> The good news is every poison has its antidote , and so does hate . The cure lies in embracing empathy , compassion , and kindness -- precious virtues that must be protected , nurtured , and spread across communities and nations . We must recognise our shared humanity , one that transcends every barrier , be it religion , nationality , ethnicity , class or gender . We must rise above the urge to simplify complex issues and blame others . Instead , we must strive to truly connect with one another , seek to understand diverse perspectives and craft solutions that uplift us all , not just a select few . <p> Time is running out for us humans . We are on the brink of extinction from the consequences of our greed and ignorance , and hate is the rolling rock that will push us over the cliff . It 's time to stand together and push back on hate . It 's the only way we will survive . 
@@118921223 <h> Arts-&amp;-Culture <p> To preserve the memory of July and revive the spirit of the July Movement among everyone , the anti-fascist photo exhibition organised by Bangladesh Islami Chhatra Shibir has concluded at National Museum at Shahbagh . Titled ' Frame-a-Bondi 36 July : Obbhyutthyan er Purbapor ' ( ' Framed Memories on 36 July : Before and After the Coup ' ) the display came to a close on Monday . The three-day exhibition began earlier on Saturday ( December 7 ) with the inauguration announced by Shibir 's central president Monzurul Islam at the Poet Sufia Kamal Auditorium of the National Museum . Musical Instrument Exhibition ' Harmony of Healing ' begins at AFD Concluded with the closing announcement by Secretary General of Islami Chhatra Shibir Jahidul Islam on Monday , the exhibition showcased historic photographs highlighting the moments of the July 36 Movement , and shed the spotlight on the stories behind the movement and its martyrs ' sacrifices , the consequences of the mass uprising , and the brave struggle of the students against the dictatorship . <p> Justin Sun , a Chinese cryptocurrency entrepreneur and art collector known for purchasing the famous $6.2 million banana taped to a wall at auction , has proposed buying 100,000 more bananas from the Bangladeshi vendor who sold the original fruit for just 25 cents . This unexpected offer has sparked excitement and practical challenges for the vendor , Shah Alam , 74 , and the fruit stand 's owner , Mohammad R. Islam , reports The New York Times . Entrepreneur who purchased a banana artwork for $6.2 million eats the fruit in Hong Kong The original " artwork " , sold at Sotheby 's in New York , captured worldwide attention for its price and conceptual nature . Sun now seeks to buy bananas worth about $25,000 from Alam 's stand near Sotheby 's . However , sourcing this quantity from the Bronx wholesale market and handling logistics , including packaging and transport , pose significant hurdles and costs . Alam , who earns $12 per hour working 12-hour shifts , clarified that any profit from the bulk sale would go to the stand 's owner . Alam estimated only a modest $6,000 profit would remain after expenses . " There 's not any profit in selling bananas , " Alam said , underlining the stark difference between the art piece 's exorbitant cost and the realities of running a fruit stand , the report also said . Sun , who has a history of purchasing unique and costly artworks , commented on the challenges in a text after a news event in Hong Kong , where he ate the original banana . " I am not personally familiar with the exact cost of the bananas , " he wrote , emphasising that the goal was to support Alam and highlight the artistic symbolism of the banana Fruit stand owner Islam , 53 , said he would consider sharing any potential profits with Alam and other employees . He learned about Sun 's proposal from a reporter and expressed concern over its impact . Online support for Alam has grown , with two fundraising campaigns raising over $20,000 , underscoring public interest in addressing the economic disparity highlighted by the original sale , added the report . Alam 's brother , Mohammad Alam Badsha , who also works at the stand , shared his view on Thanksgiving Day . He acknowledged the potential of accepting the bulk sale but pointed out it would not substantially change the vendors ' circumstances or address the deep inequality exposed by the $6.2 million price tag . " It 's definitely an inequality , " Badsha said , using a Bengali saying to describe the vast difference as " the difference between heaven and hell . " <p> " Harmony of Healing ' , an exhibition featuring traditional and innovative musical instruments from the region , presented by Mohammad Jakir Hossain , begun at La Galerie of Alliance Fran ? aise de Dhaka ( AFD ) in Dhaka on Monday . Music artist Baul Shafi Mondol attended the exhibition as a special guest , and Fran ? ois Grosjean , director of the Alliance Fran ? aise de Dhaka , also participated in the inauguration , among others . Jakir Hossain , born in 1994 in Gaibandha , studied music in Kolkata from 2016 to 2022 , where he learned various forms , including Indian classical , Bengali folk , Tagore songs , and modern music . After returning to Bangladesh , he explored the impact of music on humanism and healing . In 2018 , he founded " Obokalpo " , an initiative focused on preserving and developing traditional and experimental music while nurturing art and culture in vulnerable regions of Bangladesh . In addition to the display of experimental indigenous musical instruments , the exhibition will feature seminars , workshops , and Bengali folk music performances . Lucy Tripti Gomes curated the exhibition . Acrobatics featuring trained artists enthralls BSA The exhibition is open to all and will run until Friday , November 29 , from Monday to Saturday , 3 pm to 9 pm . <p> On Saturday evening , the Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy ( BSA ) hosted a unique ' Acrobatic Show ' at the National Theatre Hall auditorium in the capital . The acrobatic show was organized by the Theater and Film Department of BSA , as the academy is currently working in a variety of methods to advance the popular acrobatic art form . The acrobatic team of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy , which received special training from China , presented several enthralling performances featuring Rope Round Bill , Ariel Hoop , Blanket Balance , Barrel Balance , Chair Setting , Mount Skill , Diabo Balance , Fire/Bump , Ring Dance , Roller Balance , Ring Jump and more . At the event , the Director General of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy Dr Syed Jamil Ahmed said , " The art of Acrobatics has gained wide popularity for several hundred years . It was mentioned in " Mahua Pala " written in 1650 , proving that acrobatics was already popular before that period ; but today , its remnants survive somewhere in a dilapidated condition - and the circus that was popular during the British period is hardly seen today . " " Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy thanks the state and people of China for helping to revive this almost lost heritage of Bangladesh , and I request our trained acrobats and their instructors to make acrobatics a part of our heritage . I also want the audience to stand by the circus , because Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy can take the circus back to a strong position with your undivided support , " Syed Jamil concluded .. The program was broadcast live from the official Facebook page of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy . <p> The Ministry of Cultural Affairs on Thursday announced seven innovative projects aimed at engaging youth and revitalizing Bangladesh 's cultural landscape in the wake of the July Revolution . The announcement came during a press conference at the Secretariat , chaired by Cultural Affairs Adviser Mostofa Sarwar Farooki . The seven initiatives , designed to foster creativity and inclusivity , are : ' Remembering Monsoon Revolution , ' ' Youth Festival , ' ' Countrywide Talent Hunt , ' ' Digital Oral History Project , ' ' Bangla Academy Creative Writing Workshop and Research Project , ' ' Installation of Modern Video Projection System at the National Museum , ' and ' Show-Creator Workshops . ' Adviser Mostofa Sarwar Farooki emphasized the projects ' significance in promoting cultural unity and diversity . " The establishment of a cultural bridge is crucial after the revolution , " he said . " We want to ensure that Bangladesh represents everyone -- many people , many religions , many languages , and all cultures will be at the center of our policy . There will be no space for religious discrimination . " In the written statement of the ministry , it was informed that ' Remembering Monsoon Revolution ' will create new enthusiasm and new wave among the youth of Bangladesh . As part of this project , 8 visual content creation workshops will be organized in 8 categories by 8 top Bangladeshi creators , and 8 medium length visual content will be produced as output of the workshop while 8 new theater productions will also be created and staged . An album of Nazrul 's songs will be made with youth-favorite local artists of the country and a concert will be organized centrally in Dhaka on the occasion of its release . This concert will be telecast across the country . Besides , the July Revolution-centric photography , paintings and cartoons will be exhibited in the country through major exhibitions , according to the Ministry . A grand ' Youth Festival ' will take place from December 30 to February 8 next year , where the Ministry of Cultural Affairs will organize cultural events across the country . As part of the countrywide talent search program , the ministry will organize a countrywide talent search program with the aim of creating a new cultural awakening among Bangladeshi children , adolescents and youth . ' Digital Oral History Project ' will include a large-scale digital archiving . Millions of participants in the ' Remembering Monsoon Revolution ' will have their involvement history captured by video cameras and compiled , and these videos will be displayed everywhere . For aspiring authors , Bangla Academy will publish books and offer creative writing classes . In addition , 10 one-year research fellowships and funds for fifty research papers will be granted to the aspiring researchers , as part of the ' Bangla Academy Creative Writing Workshop and Research Project ' . Besides , it was also revealed that the projection system in the National Museum auditoriums will be modernized to screen international films , documentaries and other visual content along with stage performances throughout the year , and the ' Show-Creator Workshops ' will be organized for the promising youth of Bangladesh with experienced trainers of internationally renowned OTT platforms . Syed Jamil Ahmed , Director General of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy , and Mohammad Azam , Director General of Bangla Academy , joined other ministry officials in presenting these initiatives . <p> The ICCROM Regional Centre in Sharjah will announce the winners of the 4th ICCROM-Sharjah Award for Good Practices in Cultural Heritage Preservation and the 3rd Arab Cultural Heritage Award for the Young on November 28 2024 . The ceremony will begin at 9:00 am at ICCROM-Sharjah , according to a press release on Thursday . The event will recognise outstanding efforts in preserving Arab cultural heritage . Awards include the Grand Award for Good Practices , and two Honorary Awards for Community Engagement and Conservation and Innovation . It also celebrates Arab youth creativity in drawing , photography , awareness films , and folkloric dance through the Arab Cultural Heritage Award for the Young . Winners in these categories will participate in training workshops in arts , photography , and directing before the ceremony . Historian and architect Professor Nasser Rabbat , Aga Khan Professor at MIT , will be honoured for his significant contributions to Islamic architecture and heritage through his academic and research achievements . This year , 18 projects from 12 Arab countries , including the UAE , Bahrain , Tunisia , Saudi Arabia , and Yemen , were shortlisted from 55 nominations for the ICCROM-Sharjah Award . These projects highlight efforts to preserve historical architecture , protect archaeological sites , and safeguard tangible heritage . The awards underscore ICCROM-Sharjah 's dedication to conserving cultural heritage , promoting best practices , and fostering international knowledge exchange . By spotlighting successful initiatives , the program aims to inspire others , strengthen professional networks , and enhance public appreciation of cultural heritage in the Arab region . <p> Since October 7 last year , 191 journalists and media workers have been killed as Israel is targeting and killing Palestinian journalists to suppress media coverage of the massacre in Gaza . To protest against this targeted killing of Palestinian journalists , an exhibition titled ' Gaza Holocaust : Killing the Truthtellers ' was organised by Drik Picture Library this afternoon at Dhanmondi 's Rabindra Sarobar . Along with Drik family members and friends , visitors present at the venue stood in solidarity with photographs of journalists who died fighting for the liberation of Palestine . Earlier this year , on May 5 , to mark World Press Freedom Day 2024 , Drik organised a 7-day exhibition under the same title and a panel discussion at DrikPath Bhaban in Panthapath . In the introduction to the exhibition , which aimed to pay tribute to the media persons killed in Gaza , eminent photographer and Drik 's Managing Director Shahidul Alam described , " With access to international media denied by Israel , the Palestinian journalists were the sole witnesses to the destruction of hospitals , where healing hands once laboured to save desperate lives and abandoned children lay in deserted incubators , to mass graves with people buried alive . " " They saw hungry people queuing outside food trucks gunned down and pregnant mothers , breasts dry and hearts heavy , buried under rubble . They saw too much , said too much and were plucked off , like carnival ducks in a shooting arcade , one by one . Sometimes alone , sometimes with families . Drones guided by technology giants honing in on the death trail of their mobile phones . " " These brave journalists , in their sacrifice , have ignited the flame of conscience . They were more than flesh and bone . Martyrs to the sacred art of truth telling , their lens a mirror reflecting humanity 's darkest corners . The weight of their stories presses upon our collective conscience . " according to Shahidul Alam . This solidarity exhibition is part of resistance to Israeli aggression and commitment to liberating Palestine with the call for an immediate ceasefire and an end to the ongoing genocide . <p> Goethe-Institut Bangladesh , in partnership with Alliance Fran ? aise de Dhaka ( AFD ) , presented an evening with the Franco-German Jazz Trio featuring Luise Volkmann ( saxophone ) , Max Andrzejewski ( drums ) , and Paul Jarret ( guitar ) recently at the AFD , Dhanmondi , in Dhaka . As part of a successful regional jazz tour of the trio , the concert enamoured the Dhaka audiences on Sunday , November 10 . Prior to the concert , Frank Werner , Director of the Goethe-Institut Bangladesh , and Fran ? ois Grosjean , Director of the Alliance Fran ? aise de Dhaka , welcomed the Franco-German musicians and audience with brief speeches . The concert was marked by a journey through playful elegance and energetic flow , inviting the audience to experience the trio 's deeply emotional and innovative approach to jazz . Their performance brought a refreshing soundscape to Dhaka , leaving a lasting impression on the city 's jazz enthusiasts . The **28;223;TOOLONG trio was founded in 2023 because Volkmann had carte blanche for a new line-up at the Hanover Jazz Festival . The trio plays a convincing mixture of simple folk songs and improvised sound collages . All band members are instrumentalists as well as outstanding composers , all of whom have already written for large formations . In the trio 's interplay , this knowledge of instrumentation and form is condensed into an energetic yet fragile performance that is deeply emotional . The concert featured an evocative selection of tracks depicting playful elegance in the music that took the audience on a musical journey , including " All My Forces " by Louise Volkmann , " My Ground " by Louise Volkmann , " Kitzel Skizze " by Louise Volkmann , " Roam Free " by Paul Jarret , " Odd Western by Paul Jarret , " #18 " by Max Andrzejewski , and " Opposite You " by Luise Volkmann . This carefully curated setlist highlighted the trio 's innovative approach , blending playful elegance with energetic flow , and left a lasting impression on Dhaka 's jazz enthusiasts . <p> French artist-educator ? lise Grosjean 's exclusive solo exhibition ' Finely Tiny ' was inaugurated at La Galerie , Alliance Fran ? aise de Dhaka ( AFD ) , in the capital 's Dhanmondi on Friday evening . A special artist talk , ' Mathematics and Art : Exploring the Connections ' preceded the exhibition at 5pm . Art critic Moinuddin Khaled attended the event as the special guest . From a young age , ? lise Grosjean began her artistic journey by drawing on her skin with henna and later transitioning to paper . To escape the monotony of school , she found solace in covering her diaries with imaginative drawings . This early passion for art persisted , even as her academic path took an unexpected turn . Elise pursued an academic career , becoming a Doctor of Mathematics ( PhD in Mathematics ) and an assistant professor at ENSTA-Paris , a prestigious engineering school . Her research focuses on the development of numerical methods to simulate physical phenomena . Besides solving complex mathematical equations , ? lise finds every excuse to draw , experimenting with a wide range of techniques , including pencils , inks , oil paint , acrylic , watercolor , pigments , collages , henna , and even salt dough . What connects her two seemingly divergent passions -- mathematics and art -- is her love for intricate geometric patterns . This connection is especially evident in her paintings Classroom and Rom ? o &amp; Juliette -- Mathematician Version , both of which will be featured . The exhibition will remain open to all , daily from 3pm to 9pm , till Saturday , November 9 . <p> Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy ( BSA ) will kick off the 2024 Jatra Festival on Friday at the open stage ( Mukto Moncho ) of Suhrawardy Udyan in Dhaka . This year 's festival will feature seven Jatra teams from different districts of Bangladesh , performing daily from 6 PM to 9 PM until November 7 . The performances will be based on historical and social events . " Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy believes that art is at the centre of public life . We learned morality in childhood by watching social journeys , but over time , the Jatra industry has diverged in a different direction , and we need to address that situation . The Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy is working to bring traditional Jatrapala back into public life through performance , development , practice , and the patronage of Jatra artists , " said Prof Dr Syed Jamil Ahmed , Director General of BSA . Israfil Majumdar , a participant in the student-led mass revolution , will be the chief guest , while eminent Jatra artist Anima Dey will attend as a special guest at the inaugural ceremony . Faiz Zahir , Director of the BSA Theatre and Film Department , will deliver the welcome speech at the programme , which will be presided over by the BSA DG . The first show of the seven Jatrapala performances , Nihoto Golap , will take place at 7 PM . Presented by Surovi Opera , the Jatrapala is directed by Kabir Khan . 
@@118921231 <p> Dr Yunus is likely to have a number of meetings on the sidelines of the Summit and preparations are underway , according to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs . <p> This week marks a " pivotal moment " for the D-8 with the 48th Session of the D-8 Commission meeting held in Cairo . <p> Over the next few days , key discussions will unfold , culminating in the 21st Session of the D-8 Council of Foreign Ministers on December 18 and the highly anticipated 11th D-8 Summit on December 19 . <p> These meetings will bring together leaders to strengthen economic cooperation and outline a shared vision for sustainable development among member states . <p> The D-8 Organisation for Economic Cooperation , also known as Developing-8 , is an organisation for development cooperation among Bangladesh , Egypt , Indonesia , Iran , Malaysia , Nigeria , Pakistan , and Turkey . <p> The role of D-8 is increasingly important in the joint efforts to strengthen global awareness of the situation in Palestine , especially in the Gaza Strip , which is still under Israeli aggression . <p> The D-8 Summit in Cairo , which will be held under the theme " Investing in Youth and Supporting Small Medium Enterprises , Shaping Tomorrow 's Economy , " reflects the organization 's focus on youth and MSMEs issues for the future economy . 
@@119038685 <h> Israel committing ' acts of genocide ' <p> Human Rights Watch ( HRW ) said yesterday that Israel has killed thousands of Palestinians in Gaza by denying them clean water which it says legally amounts to acts of genocide and extermination . <p> " This policy , inflicted as part of a mass killing of Palestinian civilians in Gaza , means Israeli authorities have committed the crime against humanity of extermination , which is ongoing . This policy also amounts to an ' act of genocide ' under the Genocide Convention of 1948 , " Human Rights Watch said in its report . <p> Israel has repeatedly rejected any accusation of genocide , saying it has respected international law and has a right to defend itself after the cross-border Hamas-led attack from Gaza on October 7 , 2023 . <p> MSF accuses Israel of ' ethnic cleansing ' in Gaza <p> In a statement on X , Israel 's foreign ministry wrote : " The truth is the complete opposite of HRW 's lies . " <p> Although the report described the deprivation of water as an act of genocide , it noted that proving the crime of genocide against Israeli officials would also require establishing their intent . It cited statements by some senior Israeli officials which it said suggested they " wish to destroy Palestinians " which means the deprivation of water " may amount to the crime of genocide " . <p> In a separate report released yesterday , Doctors Without Borders ( MSF ) accused Israel of causing widespread devastation in Gaza and noted " signs of ethnic cleansing " in the north of the Palestinian territory . <p> " What we have found is that the Israeli government is intentionally killing Palestinians in Gaza by denying them the water that they need to survive , " Lama Fakih , Human Rights Watch Middle East director told a press conference . <h> Israel committing ' acts of genocide ' <p> Human Rights Watch ( HRW ) said yesterday that Israel has killed thousands of Palestinians in Gaza by denying them clean water which it says legally amounts to acts of genocide and extermination . <p> " This policy , inflicted as part of a mass killing of Palestinian civilians in Gaza , means Israeli authorities have committed the crime against humanity of extermination , which is ongoing . This policy also amounts to an ' act of genocide ' under the Genocide Convention of 1948 , " Human Rights Watch said in its report . <p> Israel has repeatedly rejected any accusation of genocide , saying it has respected international law and has a right to defend itself after the cross-border Hamas-led attack from Gaza on October 7 , 2023 . <p> MSF accuses Israel of ' ethnic cleansing ' in Gaza <p> In a statement on X , Israel 's foreign ministry wrote : " The truth is the complete opposite of HRW 's lies . " <p> Although the report described the deprivation of water as an act of genocide , it noted that proving the crime of genocide against Israeli officials would also require establishing their intent . It cited statements by some senior Israeli officials which it said suggested they " wish to destroy Palestinians " which means the deprivation of water " may amount to the crime of genocide " . <p> In a separate report released yesterday , Doctors Without Borders ( MSF ) accused Israel of causing widespread devastation in Gaza and noted " signs of ethnic cleansing " in the north of the Palestinian territory . <p> " What we have found is that the Israeli government is intentionally killing Palestinians in Gaza by denying them the water that they need to survive , " Lama Fakih , Human Rights Watch Middle East director told a press conference . 
@@119038728 <p> Chief Adviser Prof Muhammad Yunus on Thursday said it is crucial to move beyond humanitarian interventions and shift focus towards the reconstruction of Gaza , the West Bank , and Lebanon . <p> " Let D-8 therefore kickstart a process , with an approximate estimation of the costs of reconstruction in Palestine and Lebanon , " he said , adding that they can thereon press on formulation of international strategies for resource mobilization . <p> The Chief Adviser made the remarks while delivering the speech during a special session on humanitarian crisis and reconstruction challenges in Gaza and Lebanon on the sidelines of the D-8 Summit . <p> The United Nations has cautioned that removing the 40 million tonnes of rubble left in the wake of Israel 's bombardment could take at least 15 years , Dr Yunus said . <p> " We understand that the rubble may contain over 10,000 bodies of the deceased . And this is also contaminated with asbestos , " he said . <p> Dr Yunus said Bangladesh commends the government of Egypt for convening this special session . <p> " We gather at a time when Israeli aggression and the 14-month long brutal genocide against the Palestinian people continue unabated in the occupied Gaza Strip and the West Bank . Words should suffice little , " he said . <p> To say the least , Dr Yunus said , they are in utter dismay at Israel 's blatant disregard to long-held international norms , laws and conventions . <p> " The ways the hostilities in Lebanon are spreading , there are heightened fears of further escalation . This can lend to dire and long-term consequences for peace and stability across the region , impacting global society and polity , not just economy , " he said . <p> From Cairo , Dr Yunus said , they must voice their unity and unwavering commitment , in solidarity with their Palestinian brothers and sisters , at this existential time in their history . <p> " Throughout our history , Bangladesh has stood firmly in support of the Palestinian cause . We consistently condemned the illegal occupation and the violent repression carried out by Israel , " said the Chief Adviser . <p> He said they remain steadfast in advocating a just and lasting solution , through a two-State solution to the crisis , with Israel and Palestine living side by side in peace and harmony . " Palestine has to emerge as a fully independent and viable State based on the pre-1967 borders , with East Jerusalem as its capital , " Dr Yunus said . <p> " This is what we also articulated in detail before the International Court of Justice this February as the Court finally called Israel 's occupation illegal , in its Advisory Opinion , " he added . <p> Bangladeshis are profoundly concerned over the current state of affairs and Palestinians are no expendable people , Dr Yunus said . " Every Palestinian life matters . " <p> The Chief Adviser said it is not an issue that merely concerns the Muslims . " Rather , a universal cause where human dignity is tested . It is about universal pledge to protect the vulnerable . It is indeed our moral duty to stand by them , resolutely . " <p> There are around six million Bangladeshi migrant workers and expatriate professionals , across the region , including in Lebanon who have been making significant contributions to the development of the countries across the Middle East , Dr Yunus said . <p> " Their safety and security are at risk . We call upon all actors and stakeholders , indeed beyond the region , to take decisive and collective actions to end the brutalities unleashed by the Israeli forces , " he said . <p> The massacres in Gaza , the West Bank , and Lebanon , are clear violations of international law , and constitute war crimes . <p> " Those responsible must account . That is why , last November , Bangladesh stood up at the International Criminal Court asking for expeditious investigations into the heinous crimes against humanity , " Dr Yunus said . <p> Such actions on accountability can deter the perpetrators against further and future atrocities , he said . 
@@119082456 <h> ' The soul of my soul ' : Khaled Nabhan 's legacy of love and resistance <p> For years , Muslim men have been associated with terms such as " extremist , " " terrorist , " " turban-head , " etc , until the war broke out in Gaza , which swiftly bled into a genocide . Across the world , millions of individuals , irrespective of their culture , race and socioeconomic class , were in sheer shock as the slaughter of thousands of men , women and children was justified as " self-defence . " And yet , like a silver lining , the stereotype surrounding Muslims -- of Muslim men being labelled as vicious and unforgiving -- was broken by one notable individual : Khaled Nabhan . Khalid rose up both as a symbol against what the media often portrayed Muslim men as and as another iconic symbol of Palestinian resistance . <p> Reem was not only Khaled Nabhan 's granddaughter ; she was his little shadow , his loyal companion and , at three years old , the apple of his eyes . Countless videos of Reem spending time with her grandfather , her curly pigtails bouncing with her joy , still circle the internet . The siege and artillery strike in Gaza traumatised young Reem . Still , her grandfather was a constant presence shielding the young child during the worst of the bombing in a way only a grandparent could until finally , on November 28 , 2023 , the airstrikes at Al-Nuseirat Refugee Camp finally stole her young life away . Reem 's grandfather was not with her that fateful day , and he returned expecting to be greeted by her , and yet he faced a scene crueller than his worst nightmares : their family home turned to rubble . And Reem , the apple of Khaled 's apple , was slain like so many children in Gaza . Khaled Nabhan 's final act of grandfatherly love immortalised him and his granddaughter to millions worldwide ; Khaled , cradling Reem 's body as gently as she was sleeping , kissed her forehead and her eyes . <p> " She was the soul of my soul , " he cried , immortalising his granddaughter in history . The phrase , " the soul of my soul , " is five words the world heard in stunned and grief-stricken silence . Within hours , millions across the globe paid tribute to Khaled and Reem with moving videos , reels , art pieces , etc . Indeed , the pro-Palestinian clothing brand Wear The Peace created a shirt immortalising the phrase , with 100 percent of the profits going to those affected in Gaza . And yet , none of these would bring Reem back . Khaled was shattered , and no one would fault him for wanting revenge . <p> Yet , instead of swearing revenge or showing his anger , Khaled stood solemnly and showed global audiences what so many had tried to deny , an elderly Palestinian grandfather dressed in the traditional thobe with a keffiyeh tied around his head , sporting a typical Muslim beard ; a victim of aggression , not a terrorist as so many in the world had branded him as due to his clothes , his beard , his language , his religion or his complexion . <p> " I kissed her , but she would n't wake up , " uttered Khaled to global audiences , which combined with , " She was the soul of my soul . " These unscripted words , borne from raw grief , became an international rallying cry as the world watched Khaled Nabhan gently handing over her tiny corpse to a stranger to finally lay her to rest , away from this cruel and unjust world that robbed her of her life and her childhood . <p> Reem might have been buried six feet under the ground , but her memories were still profoundly cherished by her grandfather , who seemed to make it his mission in life to always keep her memory alive . With only his bare hands , he spent hours digging through the rubble and finding the last possession of his slain grandchildren ; a doll beloved by Reem , which he held and kissed as if he were holding his granddaughter , as well as an earring of hers which he always kept on his person . <p> The world stood in awe at Khaled 's dignified and pious persona as he gave the world and indeed many Muslims across the globe a real-life example of what it means to be a Muslim . It was with this faith that so many in Gaza would go to broken and destroyed mosques on Fridays for Jummah prayers during the siege that shattered the portrait of Islam that the media had painted before . <p> And yet , once again , death came and snatched away those who were too good , too pure for this world . On December 16 , 2024 , less than 13 months after the departure of his beloved Reem , death came for Khaled . Pictures of his bloodied body shocked millions , prompting a global mourning and moving tributes . One ca n't help but wonder what his last thoughts were . Was he in pain ? Was he scared ? Or was he smiling at the relief of being able to finally be reunited with his beloved Reem ? <p> These last 14 months of genocide in Gaza have redefined many things , yet have also shown us the resilience of the Palestinians . Palestinians like Khaled Nabhan have not only become a symbol of the Palestinian resistance but also those beloved by millions around the globe , whose faces and actions have been seared into our hearts and minds . In a way , they have become more than names , more than statistics ; they have become real , dimensional people , not abstract concepts . Their pain is palpable , and their deaths are so devastating . These words are not simply a eulogy but an ode to the revolution that one Palestinian grandfather spurred into action . May Khaled and Reem be reunited in the heaven 's gardens . <p> Nuzhat Elham is a student in the Department of English and Modern Languages at North South University ( NSU ) . <h> ' The soul of my soul ' : Khaled Nabhan 's legacy of love and resistance <p> For years , Muslim men have been associated with terms such as " extremist , " " terrorist , " " turban-head , " etc , until the war broke out in Gaza , which swiftly bled into a genocide . Across the world , millions of individuals , irrespective of their culture , race and socioeconomic class , were in sheer shock as the slaughter of thousands of men , women and children was justified as " self-defence . " And yet , like a silver lining , the stereotype surrounding Muslims -- of Muslim men being labelled as vicious and unforgiving -- was broken by one notable individual : Khaled Nabhan . Khalid rose up both as a symbol against what the media often portrayed Muslim men as and as another iconic symbol of Palestinian resistance . <p> Reem was not only Khaled Nabhan 's granddaughter ; she was his little shadow , his loyal companion and , at three years old , the apple of his eyes . Countless videos of Reem spending time with her grandfather , her curly pigtails bouncing with her joy , still circle the internet . The siege and artillery strike in Gaza traumatised young Reem . Still , her grandfather was a constant presence shielding the young child during the worst of the bombing in a way only a grandparent could until finally , on November 28 , 2023 , the airstrikes at Al-Nuseirat Refugee Camp finally stole her young life away . Reem 's grandfather was not with her that fateful day , and he returned expecting to be greeted by her , and yet he faced a scene crueller than his worst nightmares : their family home turned to rubble . And Reem , the apple of Khaled 's apple , was slain like so many children in Gaza . Khaled Nabhan 's final act of grandfatherly love immortalised him and his granddaughter to millions worldwide ; Khaled , cradling Reem 's body as gently as she was sleeping , kissed her forehead and her eyes . <p> " She was the soul of my soul , " he cried , immortalising his granddaughter in history . The phrase , " the soul of my soul , " is five words the world heard in stunned and grief-stricken silence . Within hours , millions across the globe paid tribute to Khaled and Reem with moving videos , reels , art pieces , etc . Indeed , the pro-Palestinian clothing brand Wear The Peace created a shirt immortalising the phrase , with 100 percent of the profits going to those affected in Gaza . And yet , none of these would bring Reem back . Khaled was shattered , and no one would fault him for wanting revenge . <p> Yet , instead of swearing revenge or showing his anger , Khaled stood solemnly and showed global audiences what so many had tried to deny , an elderly Palestinian grandfather dressed in the traditional thobe with a keffiyeh tied around his head , sporting a typical Muslim beard ; a victim of aggression , not a terrorist as so many in the world had branded him as due to his clothes , his beard , his language , his religion or his complexion . <p> " I kissed her , but she would n't wake up , " uttered Khaled to global audiences , which combined with , " She was the soul of my soul . " These unscripted words , borne from raw grief , became an international rallying cry as the world watched Khaled Nabhan gently handing over her tiny corpse to a stranger to finally lay her to rest , away from this cruel and unjust world that robbed her of her life and her childhood . <p> Reem might have been buried six feet under the ground , but her memories were still profoundly cherished by her grandfather , who seemed to make it his mission in life to always keep her memory alive . With only his bare hands , he spent hours digging through the rubble and finding the last possession of his slain grandchildren ; a doll beloved by Reem , which he held and kissed as if he were holding his granddaughter , as well as an earring of hers which he always kept on his person . <p> The world stood in awe at Khaled 's dignified and pious persona as he gave the world and indeed many Muslims across the globe a real-life example of what it means to be a Muslim . It was with this faith that so many in Gaza would go to broken and destroyed mosques on Fridays for Jummah prayers during the siege that shattered the portrait of Islam that the media had painted before . <p> And yet , once again , death came and snatched away those who were too good , too pure for this world . On December 16 , 2024 , less than 13 months after the departure of his beloved Reem , death came for Khaled . Pictures of his bloodied body shocked millions , prompting a global mourning and moving tributes . One ca n't help but wonder what his last thoughts were . Was he in pain ? Was he scared ? Or was he smiling at the relief of being able to finally be reunited with his beloved Reem ? <p> These last 14 months of genocide in Gaza have redefined many things , yet have also shown us the resilience of the Palestinians . Palestinians like Khaled Nabhan have not only become a symbol of the Palestinian resistance but also those beloved by millions around the globe , whose faces and actions have been seared into our hearts and minds . In a way , they have become more than names , more than statistics ; they have become real , dimensional people , not abstract concepts . Their pain is palpable , and their deaths are so devastating . These words are not simply a eulogy but an ode to the revolution that one Palestinian grandfather spurred into action . May Khaled and Reem be reunited in the heaven 's gardens . <p> Nuzhat Elham is a student in the Department of English and Modern Languages at North South University ( NSU ) . 
@@119082530 <p> Sweden will no longer fund the UN refugee agency for Palestinians ( UNRWA ) and will instead provide increased overall humanitarian assistance to Gaza via other channels , the Nordic country said on Friday . <p> Israel , which says it will ban UNRWA operations in the country from late January , accuses the agency of being involved in the Oct 7 , 2023 , Hamas-led attacks on Israel that triggered the 14-month-old war in Gaza . <p> Sweden 's decision was in response to the Israeli ban , as it will make channelling aid via the agency more difficult , the country 's aid minister , Benjamin Dousa , said . <p> " Large parts of UNRWA 's operations in Gaza are either going to be severely weakened or completely impossible , " Dousa told Reuters . " For the government , the most important thing is that support gets through . " <p> Dousa said Sweden " in no way " supported Israel 's law and had repeatedly expressed its criticism . " Israel must do much more to ensure humanitarian access to Gaza , " he said . <p> The new Israeli law does not directly ban UNRWA 's operations in the West Bank and Gaza but it will have a severe impact on UNRWA 's ability to work . Top UN officials describe UNRWA as the backbone of Gaza 's aid response . <p> Sweden plans to lift its overall humanitarian aid to Gaza next year to 800 million Swedish crowns ( $72.44 million ) from 451 million spent this year , the foreign ministry said . <p> Aid will flow via several organisations including the UN World Food Programme ( WFP ) , the UN Children 's Fund ( UNICEF ) , the UN Populations Fund ( UNFPA ) and the International Committee of the Red Cross ( ICRC ) , the ministry added . <p> The Palestinian embassy in Stockholm said in a statement : " We reject the idea of finding alternatives to UNRWA , which has a special mandate to provide services to Palestinian refugees . " The refugee population relies on UNRWA healthcare , education , emergency relief and humanitarian assistance , it said . <p> The UN General Assembly threw its support behind UNRWA this month , demanding Israel respect the agency 's mandate and " enable its operations to proceed without impediment or restriction " . <p> UNRWA chief Philippe Lazzarini said on X : " Defunding UNRWA now will undermine decades of Sweden 's investment in human development including by denying access to education for hundreds of thousands of girls and boys across the region . " <p> Israeli Deputy Foreign Minister Sharren Haskel thanked Dousa for a meeting they had this week and for Sweden 's decision to drop its support for UNRWA . <p> " There are worthy and viable alternatives for humanitarian aid , and I appreciate the willingness to listen and adopt a different approach , " she said . <p> The UN has said nine UNRWA staff may have been involved in the Oct 7 , 2023 Hamas attack and had been fired . A Hamas commander in Lebanon - killed by Israel - was also found to have had an UNRWA job . 
@@119226948 <h> Israeli army forces patients out of north Gaza hospital , medics say <p> Smoke rises over the northern Gaza Strip , following an Israeli strike , amid the ongoing conflict in Gaza between Israel and Hamas , as seen from Israel , Dec 22 , 2024 . REUTERS/Amir Cohen <p> Reuters <p> Published : 24 Dec 2024 , 09:46 PM <p> Updated : 24 Dec 2024 , 09:46 PM <p> Israeli troops forced the evacuation of the Indonesian Hospital in northern Gaza and many patients , some of them on foot , arrived at another hospital miles away in Gaza City , the territory 's health ministry said on Tuesday . <p> The Indonesian Hospital is one of the Gaza Strip 's few still partially functioning hospitals , on its northern edge , an area that has been under intense Israeli military pressure for nearly three months . <p> Munir Al-Bursh , director of the health ministry in the Hamas-run Gaza Strip , said the Israeli army had ordered hospital officials to evacuate it on Monday , before storming it in the early hours of Tuesday and forcing those inside to leave . <p> He said two other medical facilities in northern Gaza , Al-Awda and Kamal Adwan Hospitals , were also subject to frequent assaults by Israeli troops . <p> Israeli forces have operated in the vicinity of the Kamal Adwan hospital since Monday , medics said . <p> An Israeli security official said the area was a Hamas stronghold . <p> " Kamal Adwan is at the heart of the most complex fighting in Jabaliya , " he said . " We are being very careful . " <p> Officials at the three hospitals have refused orders by Israel to evacuate their facilities or leave patients unattended since the new military offensive began on Oct 5 . <p> Israel says it has been facilitating the delivery of medical supplies , fuel and the transfer of patients to other hospitals in the enclave during that period in collaboration with international agencies such as the World Health Organisation . <p> Hussam Abu Safiya , director of the Kamal Adwan Hospital , said they resisted a new order by the army to evacuate hundreds of patients , their companions and staff , adding that the hospital has been under constant Israeli fire that damaged generators , oxygen pumps and parts of the building . <p> NEW STRIKES <p> Meanwhile , Israeli bombardment continued elsewhere in the enclave and medics said at least nine Palestinians , including a member of the civil emergency service , were killed in four separate military strikes on Tuesday . <p> The war in Gaza was triggered by Hamas ' Oct 7 , 2023 attack on southern Israel , in which 1,200 people were killed and 251 taken hostage to Gaza , according to Israeli tallies . <p> Israel 's campaign against Hamas has since killed more than 45,200 Palestinians , according to health officials in the Hamas-run enclave . Most of the population of 2.3 million has been displaced and much of Gaza is in ruins . <p> A new bid by mediators Egypt , Qatar and the United States to end the fighting and release Israeli and foreign hostages has gained momentum this month , though no breakthrough has been reported . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Monday said progress had been made in hostage negotiations with Hamas but that he did not know how much longer it would take to see the results . <p> Gaps between Israel and Hamas over a possible Gaza ceasefire have narrowed , according to Israeli and Palestinian officials ' remarks on Monday , though crucial differences have yet to be resolved . 
@@119360359 <p> One of the Gazans evacuated from the hospital , who asked to be identified only as Mohammad for security reasons , told AFP some evacuees were interrogated about Hamas . <p> " As we began to exit , the army asked all young men to take off their clothes and walk outside the hospital , " said Mohammad , whose brother was a patient there . <p> " They ( soldiers ) took tens of young men , as well as physicians and patients , to an unknown place ... The young men were interrogated , they were asked about resistance fighters , Hamas and weapons . " <p> Ammar al-Barsh , a resident of Jabalia where the military has focused its assault in recent weeks , said the raid on Kamal Adwan and its environs had left dozens of homes in the area in ruins . <p> " The situation is catastrophic , there is no medical service , no ambulances and no civil defence in the north , " Barsh , 50 , told AFP . <p> The army " continues to raid the Kamal Adwan Hospital and the surrounding houses , and we hear gunfire from Israeli drones and artillery shelling " , he added . <p> - ' Heinous crime ' - <p> In the days leading up to the raid , Abu Safiyeh had repeatedly warned about the hospital 's precarious situation , accusing Israeli forces of targeting the facility . <p> On Monday , he issued a statement accusing Israel of targeting the hospital " with the intent to kill and forcibly displace the people inside " . <p> Since October 6 , Israel has intensified its land and air offensive in northern Gaza , saying its goal is to prevent Hamas men from regrouping . <p> The military said Friday that it was acting on intelligence regarding " terrorist infrastructure and operatives " in the hospital 's vicinity . <p> Before initiating the latest operation near the hospital , the military said its troops had " facilitated the secure evacuation of civilians , patients , and medical personnel " . <p> Hamas has denied claims its operatives were present at the hospital . <p> " The enemy 's lies about the hospital aim to justify the heinous crime committed by the occupation army today , involving the evacuation and burning of all hospital departments as part of a plan for extermination and forced displacement , " Hamas said in a statement . <p> Gaza 's health ministry had earlier quoted Abu Safiyeh reporting that the military had " set on fire all surgery departments of the hospital " . <p> One of the Gazans evacuated from the hospital , who asked to be identified only as Mohammad for security reasons , told AFP some evacuees were interrogated about Hamas . <p> " As we began to exit , the army asked all young men to take off their clothes and walk outside the hospital , " said Mohammad , whose brother was a patient there . <p> " They ( soldiers ) took tens of young men , as well as physicians and patients , to an unknown place ... The young men were interrogated , they were asked about resistance fighters , Hamas and weapons . " <p> Ammar al-Barsh , a resident of Jabalia where the military has focused its assault in recent weeks , said the raid on Kamal Adwan and its environs had left dozens of homes in the area in ruins . <p> " The situation is catastrophic , there is no medical service , no ambulances and no civil defence in the north , " Barsh , 50 , told AFP . <p> The army " continues to raid the Kamal Adwan Hospital and the surrounding houses , and we hear gunfire from Israeli drones and artillery shelling " , he added . <p> - ' Heinous crime ' - <p> In the days leading up to the raid , Abu Safiyeh had repeatedly warned about the hospital 's precarious situation , accusing Israeli forces of targeting the facility . <p> On Monday , he issued a statement accusing Israel of targeting the hospital " with the intent to kill and forcibly displace the people inside " . <p> Since October 6 , Israel has intensified its land and air offensive in northern Gaza , saying its goal is to prevent Hamas men from regrouping . <p> The military said Friday that it was acting on intelligence regarding " terrorist infrastructure and operatives " in the hospital 's vicinity . <p> Before initiating the latest operation near the hospital , the military said its troops had " facilitated the secure evacuation of civilians , patients , and medical personnel " . <p> Hamas has denied claims its operatives were present at the hospital . <p> " The enemy 's lies about the hospital aim to justify the heinous crime committed by the occupation army today , involving the evacuation and burning of all hospital departments as part of a plan for extermination and forced displacement , " Hamas said in a statement . <p> Gaza 's health ministry had earlier quoted Abu Safiyeh reporting that the military had " set on fire all surgery departments of the hospital " . 
@@119421683 <p> You are not alone if 2024 has you feeling worn down . It has been a trying year on the world scene , as the forces of disarray grew stronger . Ongoing wars ground on , while new ones erupted . Geopolitical competition increased , to the point where meetings between global leaders became news headlines even though their talks yielded little tangible progress . In all , good news has been in short supply . <p> Trump is back <p> Donald Trump once again stunned the world , and wrong-footed pollsters who had projected a very tight race , to win the US presidential election . He won all seven swing states , keeping control of the House and winning back the Senate . He is also on course to win the popular vote . He beat his Democrat rival Kamala Harris , who had been parachuted into the process just 100 days before the election after the 81-year-old outgoing President Joe Biden pulled out . On December 8 , Trump called for an immediate ceasefire in Ukraine . He returns to the White House on January 20 , 2025 . <p> More than a year into the Israeli offensive in the Gaza Strip , there has been no let-up in the violence . The conflict expanded as Israel turned its focus on the Iran-backed Hezbollah militia and extended its offensive into Lebanon . The conflict has killed at least 3,768 people in Lebanon since October 2023 , according to the health ministry , most of them since September 2024 . The health ministry in Hamas-run Gaza said the death toll from the offensive there has reached over 45,235 people , the majority of them civilians . On December 8 , Syrian rebels had ousted President Bashar al-Assad after seizing control of Damascus , forcing him to flee and ending his family 's decades of autocratic rule after more than 13 years of civil war .. <p> Ukraine war escalates <p> After a failed counteroffensive in 2023 , following Russia 's invasion on February 24 , 2022 , Ukraine in August launched a surprise incursion into Russia 's Kursk region . Russia has responded with deadly strikes and Kyiv 's outgunned and outmanned troops have struggled to hold back steady advances from Russian forces , notably in the eastern Donetsk region . The West , Ukraine and South Korea say thousands of North Korea soldiers are in Russia . In November Ukraine for the first time used Western-supplied long-range missiles against Russia , after getting US and British clearance . Russia responded by hitting Ukraine with an intercontinental ballistic missile ( ICBM ) without a nuclear warhead . <p> Social media scrutiny <p> In 2024 social media titans faced growing scrutiny of their practices . In France in August , Russian-born founder of the controversial Telegram app , Pavel Durov , was arrested and charged with failing to curb extremist and illegal content on his network . TikTok , meanwhile , was in the crosshairs of US Federal Trade Commission , which accused it of violating child privacy laws . But it was arguably Elon Musk and his social media platform X that drew the most fire . In August , X was banned for 40 days in Brazil -- its largest Latin American market with 22 million users -- in a legal tussle over disinformation . <p> Russia tightens grip <p> Vladimir Putin began his fifth term as Russian president in May after winning a presidential election that the West slammed as a sham . His nemesis Alexei Navalny died in February in murky circumstances in the Arctic prison where he had been serving a 19-year sentence for leading an " extremist " organisation . Since his death , Russian authorities have escalated a campaign against the Kremlin critic 's backers , allies and family -- arresting journalists who covered his court hearings and adding his wife , Yulia Navalnaya , to a " terrorists and extremists " blacklist . <p> Chinese decline <p> Beijing launched a salvo of measures aimed at boosting its economy . The world 's second-biggest economy has been hit by a property crisis and sluggish household consumption . It has also been locked in bitter trade disputes with the US and the EU after the entry into force of steep increases in US customs duties on electric cars , batteries for electric vehicles . In response Beijing has slapped " temporary anti-dumping measures " on imports from the EU of products including cognac . With Trump 's US election win China also fears the imposition of increased customs duties on all its goods imported into the US . <p> Deadly flooding <p> The summer of 2024 was the hottest ever recorded on Earth . Relentless global warming provoked heatwaves , droughts and deadly flooding , with the wet weather proving particularly dramatic . An unusually intense rainy season in West and Central Africa unleashed a humanitarian crisis killing hundreds of people . In a September of wild weather , Hurricane Helene pounded the southeast US , Typhoon Krathon slammed into Taiwan and Storm Boris brought floods and devastation to Europe . Typhoons Yagi and Bebinca left a trail of destruction in Asia while deadly floods hit Nepal , Bangladesh , Japan and west and central Africa . <p> A deadly year for aviation <p> A string of devastating aviation disasters in 2024 has left hundreds dead and shaken public confidence in air travel safety . The most recent and deadliest crash occurred on December 28 , when a Jeju Air passenger aircraft crashed while attempting to land at Muan Airport , South Korea . The impact ignited a fierce fire that engulfed the aircraft , killing at least 179 of the 181 people aboard . December 25 saw an Embraer ERJ-190AR aircraft operated by Azerbaijan Airlines crash near Aktau Airport in Kazakhstan , killing 38 out of 67 passengers . <p> Far-right gains in Europe <p> European elections in June confirmed nationalist and far-right parties rising in France , Germany , Belgium , Austria , Italy and the Netherlands . This also translated at the national level . Austria 's far-right Freedom Party won a historic victory in legislative elections . In France , a republican bloc prevented the far-right National Rally from coming to power in snap parliamentary elections , but fell out swiftly after the vote . The AFD in Germany won a regional election for the first time . And meanwhile in England and Northern Ireland dozens of towns were rocked by anti-immigration riots fuelled by far-right agitators . <h> NOTABLE DEATHS 2024 <p> February <p> Alexei Navalny , 47 . The fiercest foe of Russian President Vladimir Putin who crusaded against official corruption and staged massive anti-Kremlin protests . <p> April <p> Peter Higgs , 94 . The Nobel prize-winning physicist proposed the existence of the so-called " God particle " that helped explain how matter formed after the Big Bang . <p> May <p> Alice Munro , 92 . The Nobel laureate was a Canadian literary giant who became one of the world 's most esteemed contemporary authors and one of history 's most honored short story writers . <p> July <p> Ismail Haniyeh , 62 . Hamas ' top leader in exile landed on Israel 's hit list after the group staged its surprise October 7 attacks . <p> October <p> Ratan Tata , 86 . One of India 's most influential business leaders , the veteran industrialist was former chairman of the $100 billion conglomerate Tata Group . <p> November <p> Quincy Jones , 91 . The multi-talented music titan whose vast legacy ranged from producing Michael Jackson 's historic " Thriller " album to writing prize-winning film and television scores and collaborating with Frank Sinatra , Ray Charles and hundreds of other recording artists . <p> December <p> Ustad Zakir Hussain , 73 . A child prodigy , he was known for his dazzling solo performances and a raft of collaborative work with internationally renowned musicians such as George Harrison of the Beatles . <p> Jimmy Carter , 100 . An earnest Georgia peanut farmer who as US president struggled with a bad economy and the Iran hostage crisis but brokered peace between Israel and Egypt and later received the Nobel Peace Prize for his humanitarian work . <p> You are not alone if 2024 has you feeling worn down . It has been a trying year on the world scene , as the forces of disarray grew stronger . Ongoing wars ground on , while new ones erupted . Geopolitical competition increased , to the point where meetings between global leaders became news headlines even though their talks yielded little tangible progress . In all , good news has been in short supply . <p> Trump is back <p> Donald Trump once again stunned the world , and wrong-footed pollsters who had projected a very tight race , to win the US presidential election . He won all seven swing states , keeping control of the House and winning back the Senate . He is also on course to win the popular vote . He beat his Democrat rival Kamala Harris , who had been parachuted into the process just 100 days before the election after the 81-year-old outgoing President Joe Biden pulled out . On December 8 , Trump called for an immediate ceasefire in Ukraine . He returns to the White House on January 20 , 2025 . <p> More than a year into the Israeli offensive in the Gaza Strip , there has been no let-up in the violence . The conflict expanded as Israel turned its focus on the Iran-backed Hezbollah militia and extended its offensive into Lebanon . The conflict has killed at least 3,768 people in Lebanon since October 2023 , according to the health ministry , most of them since September 2024 . The health ministry in Hamas-run Gaza said the death toll from the offensive there has reached over 45,235 people , the majority of them civilians . On December 8 , Syrian rebels had ousted President Bashar al-Assad after seizing control of Damascus , forcing him to flee and ending his family 's decades of autocratic rule after more than 13 years of civil war .. <p> Ukraine war escalates <p> After a failed counteroffensive in 2023 , following Russia 's invasion on February 24 , 2022 , Ukraine in August launched a surprise incursion into Russia 's Kursk region . Russia has responded with deadly strikes and Kyiv 's outgunned and outmanned troops have struggled to hold back steady advances from Russian forces , notably in the eastern Donetsk region . The West , Ukraine and South Korea say thousands of North Korea soldiers are in Russia . In November Ukraine for the first time used Western-supplied long-range missiles against Russia , after getting US and British clearance . Russia responded by hitting Ukraine with an intercontinental ballistic missile ( ICBM ) without a nuclear warhead . <p> Social media scrutiny <p> In 2024 social media titans faced growing scrutiny of their practices . In France in August , Russian-born founder of the controversial Telegram app , Pavel Durov , was arrested and charged with failing to curb extremist and illegal content on his network . TikTok , meanwhile , was in the crosshairs of US Federal Trade Commission , which accused it of violating child privacy laws . But it was arguably Elon Musk and his social media platform X that drew the most fire . In August , X was banned for 40 days in Brazil -- its largest Latin American market with 22 million users -- in a legal tussle over disinformation . <p> Russia tightens grip <p> Vladimir Putin began his fifth term as Russian president in May after winning a presidential election that the West slammed as a sham . His nemesis Alexei Navalny died in February in murky circumstances in the Arctic prison where he had been serving a 19-year sentence for leading an " extremist " organisation . Since his death , Russian authorities have escalated a campaign against the Kremlin critic 's backers , allies and family -- arresting journalists who covered his court hearings and adding his wife , Yulia Navalnaya , to a " terrorists and extremists " blacklist . <p> Chinese decline <p> Beijing launched a salvo of measures aimed at boosting its economy . The world 's second-biggest economy has been hit by a property crisis and sluggish household consumption . It has also been locked in bitter trade disputes with the US and the EU after the entry into force of steep increases in US customs duties on electric cars , batteries for electric vehicles . In response Beijing has slapped " temporary anti-dumping measures " on imports from the EU of products including cognac . With Trump 's US election win China also fears the imposition of increased customs duties on all its goods imported into the US . <p> Deadly flooding <p> The summer of 2024 was the hottest ever recorded on Earth . Relentless global warming provoked heatwaves , droughts and deadly flooding , with the wet weather proving particularly dramatic . An unusually intense rainy season in West and Central Africa unleashed a humanitarian crisis killing hundreds of people . In a September of wild weather , Hurricane Helene pounded the southeast US , Typhoon Krathon slammed into Taiwan and Storm Boris brought floods and devastation to Europe . Typhoons Yagi and Bebinca left a trail of destruction in Asia while deadly floods hit Nepal , Bangladesh , Japan and west and central Africa . <p> A deadly year for aviation <p> A string of devastating aviation disasters in 2024 has left hundreds dead and shaken public confidence in air travel safety . The most recent and deadliest crash occurred on December 28 , when a Jeju Air passenger aircraft crashed while attempting to land at Muan Airport , South Korea . The impact ignited a fierce fire that engulfed the aircraft , killing at least 179 of the 181 people aboard . December 25 saw an Embraer ERJ-190AR aircraft operated by Azerbaijan Airlines crash near Aktau Airport in Kazakhstan , killing 38 out of 67 passengers . <p> Far-right gains in Europe <p> European elections in June confirmed nationalist and far-right parties rising in France , Germany , Belgium , Austria , Italy and the Netherlands . This also translated at the national level . Austria 's far-right Freedom Party won a historic victory in legislative elections . In France , a republican bloc prevented the far-right National Rally from coming to power in snap parliamentary elections , but fell out swiftly after the vote . The AFD in Germany won a regional election for the first time . And meanwhile in England and Northern Ireland dozens of towns were rocked by anti-immigration riots fuelled by far-right agitators . <h> NOTABLE DEATHS 2024 <p> February <p> Alexei Navalny , 47 . The fiercest foe of Russian President Vladimir Putin who crusaded against official corruption and staged massive anti-Kremlin protests . <p> April <p> Peter Higgs , 94 . The Nobel prize-winning physicist proposed the existence of the so-called " God particle " that helped explain how matter formed after the Big Bang . <p> May <p> Alice Munro , 92 . The Nobel laureate was a Canadian literary giant who became one of the world 's most esteemed contemporary authors and one of history 's most honored short story writers . <p> July <p> Ismail Haniyeh , 62 . Hamas ' top leader in exile landed on Israel 's hit list after the group staged its surprise October 7 attacks . <p> October <p> Ratan Tata , 86 . One of India 's most influential business leaders , the veteran industrialist was former chairman of the $100 billion conglomerate Tata Group . <p> November <p> Quincy Jones , 91 . The multi-talented music titan whose vast legacy ranged from producing Michael Jackson 's historic " Thriller " album to writing prize-winning film and television scores and collaborating with Frank Sinatra , Ray Charles and hundreds of other recording artists . <p> December <p> Ustad Zakir Hussain , 73 . A child prodigy , he was known for his dazzling solo performances and a raft of collaborative work with internationally renowned musicians such as George Harrison of the Beatles . <p> Jimmy Carter , 100 . An earnest Georgia peanut farmer who as US president struggled with a bad economy and the Iran hostage crisis but brokered peace between Israel and Egypt and later received the Nobel Peace Prize for his humanitarian work . 
