@@118327528 <p> Downpours overnight inundated tents and in some places washed away the plastic and cloth shelters used by displaced Gazans , most of whom have been uprooted several times during the conflict between Israel and Hamas militants . <p> Suad Al-Sabea , a mother of six from northern Gaza , now lives inside a classroom with broken windows at a school housing displaced families in Khan Yunis in the south of the Strip . She sells the bread she bakes in a wood-fuelled earth oven to make a living for her children , but rainwater spoiled the flour and damaged the oven , threatening to put her out of work . <p> " The dough drowned in water , and many mattresses drowned in water . It was raining on top of my head and I kept baking to provide for my children , " she said . <p> Some other tents closer to the beach were swept away by high waves . <p> The UN Pal ? ? estinian refugee agency , UNRWA , said in a post on X that winter 's first rains mean even more suffering . " Around half a million people are at risk in areas of flooding , " it said . " The situat ? ion will only get worse with eve ? ry drop of rain , every bomb , every strike . " <p> Israel ups strikes on Gaza <p> Meanwhile , Israeli military stri ? kes intensified across the enclave . <p> In Rafah in the southern Gaza Strip , an Israeli air strike killed at least four people , medics said , while tanks deepened their incursions in the northern edge of two towns of Beit Hanoun , and in Beit Lahiya , and Jabalia , the largest of the enclave 's eight historic refugee camps . <p> Medics said seven Palestinians were killed by two Israeli air strikes in the area of Jabalia . <p> On Monday , residents said Israeli planes dropped new leaflets on Beit Lahiya ordering remaining residents to leave to the south , saying the area would come under attack . <p> Israeli attacks in Gaza has killed more than 44,200 people , mostly civilians , and uprooted nearly the entire population at least once . 
@@118327530 <p> The interior ministry reiterated on Sunday that despite a prior Islamabad High Court ( IHC ) ruling deeming PTI 's November 24 power show " unlawful , " the party still breached the Red Zone in Islamabad . <p> On Nov 13 , incarcerated PTI founder Imran Khan issued a " final call " for nationwide protests on Nov 24 , demanding the restoration of the PTI 's electoral mandate , the release of detained party members , and the reversal of the 26th Amendment , which he said had strengthened a " dictatorial regime " . <p> In the early hours of Wednesday , a day of pitched battles between security forces and PTI protesters across the federal capital ended in a hasty retreat of the party 's top leadership and supporters from the Red Zone in the early hours of Wednesday . <p> Interior Minister Mohsin Naqvi said in a statement that security forces had " bravely repulsed the protesters " , while PTI harshly criticised the interior minister for his statements and blamed him for the alleged violence against its supporters , claiming multiple deaths . <p> Amnesty International condemned the violence , terming it a " brutal and lethal crackdown " on protesters by authorities . Meanwhile , PTI Vice Chairman Shah Mehmood Qureshi , who is in jail along with other key leaders , advocated for national reconciliation and national consensus to achieve political stability . <p> According to Sunday 's notification from the Interior Ministry , a copy of which is available with Dawn.com , the IHC had directed the government to engage with the PTI leadership ahead of the protest . <p> It went on to note that PTI had been offered Sangjani as an alternate protest venue but " in spite of the extraordinary concessions extended , PTI violated the court 's orders blatantly and instead of holding a protest at designated place ( Sangjani ) , unlawfully breached entry towards the Red Zone of Islamabad , " referring to a Nov 21 IHC declaration that PTI 's Nov 24 protest was " unlawful . " <p> The notification further alleged that PTI protesters " aggressively engaged " Law Enforcement Authorities ( LEAs ) with weaponry , adding that the " violent protest was primarily orchestrated and logistically &amp; financially sustained and supported by the resources of the government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa " . <p> " Alarmingly , PTI 's protest included violent and trained miscreant elements including many illegal Afghan nationals who spearheaded the riots and violent activities throughout the march . <p> It went on to say that the army was deployed in the capital under Article 245 of the Constitution " only to secure key government installations and foreign diplomats in the sensitive Red Zone while ensuring a secure environment for high-profile foreign dignitaries visiting the country . " <p> " LEAs comprising police and rangers were employed without live ammunition to disperse this violent mob while the army neither came in direct clash with these miscreants nor employed for riot control , " the notification said , adding that the party leadership , instead of controlling the violent mob , fled from the scene . <p> The information and interior ministers " promptly " visited the site of the protest after it was called off , the notification said , but " unfortunately , social media accounts of PTI resorted to planned and coordinated massive fake propaganda of deaths caused by LEAs so as to divert attention from this senseless , violent and failed activity . " <p> Major hospitals in Islamabad " rubbished reports " of alleged casualties caused by LEAs , but a " sustained fabricated social media campaign , using old and AI-generated clips is being viciously undertaken by PTI and joined by other inimical elements . " <p> " There have been multiple false claims of deaths ranging from tens to hundreds to thousands on social media as well as PTI political leadership and their official pages , " the notification said . <p> The statement further said that the " PTI and its social media propagandists " were bent on creating divisions and confusion within the society . <p> " Such elements , whether inside the country or abroad , will surely be held accountable under relevant laws and no one will be allowed to sow divisions , hatred and propagating fake news . " <p> The notification blasted KP Chief Minister Ali Amin Gandapur for making " baseless inflammatory statements against institutions , using KP Assembly as a platform to distort facts and spread blatant lies , rather than being shameful of inciting innocent youth of KP for such undesirable activities . " <p> It is concerning to note that 39 lethal weapons , including 18 automatic weapons , have been recovered from the violent protesters and that amongst the apprehended offenders there are more than three dozen paid aliens , the notification said . <p> With regards to material losses incurred during the violent protests , initial estimates suggest damages to the tune of hundreds of millions , it added . <p> " Due to these violent protests , indirect losses to the economy are estimated to be Rs192 billion per day , " it said . " In addition to that , significant expenditure incurred on taking necessary security measures while plundering of the financial resources by the KP government are separate . " <h> ' PTI should provide proof of firing by LEAs ' <p> Meanwhile , Information Minister Atta Tarar on Sunday challenged the PTI " to show me video evidence of state law enforcement agencies ( LEAs ) firing on the protesters , " while speaking at a press conference in Islamabad . <p> " This effort to disrupt the peace in Islamabad in the name of politics , to hide the fact that effort was foiled , false statements are being given , " said Tarar . <p> " These protesters were armed with all kinds of weapons and Murad Saeed 's contingent was leading this conspiracy . Why would Afghans , criminals and terrorists get involved in this protest ? " he asked . <p> He added that despite conflicting numbers of dead bodies , both the Polyclinic Hospital and the Pakistan Institute of Medical Sciences had said nobody was killed by the LEAs . <p> " If there was live ammunition , it was used by these people , they fired blindly , there 's video footage of them . " <p> He claimed that the PTI was making fake videos and using footage from Gaza and Kurram and claiming that it was Islamabad . <p> " Terrorism is on the rise in KP , Kurram is seeing mass unrest , but the KP govt made this decision to come to Islamabad and then ran away . Who suffers ? The people and the economy " he added . 
@@118327603 <p> The UN agency for Palestinian refugees ( UNRWA ) on Sunday suspended the delivery of humanitarian aid into the Gaza Strip through the Israeli-held Kerem Shalom crossing due to insecurity . <p> " We are pausing the delivery of aid through Kerem Shalom , the main crossing point for humanitarian aid into Gaza . The road out of this crossing has not been safe for months , " UNRWA Commissioner-General Philippe Lazzarini said in a statement . <p> He said a large aid convoy moving into the territory was stolen by armed gangs last month . <p> " Yesterday , we tried to bring in a few food trucks on the same route . They were all taken , " Lazzarini said . <p> " This difficult decision comes at a time hunger is rapidly deepening . The delivery of humanitarian aid must never be dangerous or turn into an ordeal . " <p> The UNRWA chief said Israel 's ongoing siege , restrictions , lack of safety , and targeting of local police make it impossible to carry out humanitarian operations in Gaza . <p> " The responsibility of protection of aid workers and supplies is with the State of Israel as the occupying power . They must ensure aid flows into Gaza safely and must refrain from attacks on humanitarian workers , " Lazzarini said . <p> " I call once again for a cease-fire that would also secure the delivery of safe and uninterrupted aid to people in need . " <p> Israel has launched a genocidal war on the Gaza Strip following a cross-border attack by the Palestinian group Hamas in October last year , killing nearly 44,400 people , most of them women and children , and injuring over 105,000 . <p> The second year of genocide in Gaza has drawn growing international condemnation , with officials and institutions labeling the attacks and blocking of aid deliveries as a deliberate attempt to destroy a population . <p> On Nov. 21 , the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant for war crimes and crimes against humanity in Gaza . <p> Israel also faces a genocide case at the International Court of Justice for its deadly war on Gaza . 
@@118327604 <h> Israeli strike kills four Palestinians in West Bank <p> Israeli troops or settlers have killed about 800 Palestinians in the West Bank since the start of the Gaza war . PHOTO : AFP <p> The Palestinian health ministry said the Israeli army killed four people in the occupied West Bank on Sunday , as Israel announced a strike that killed four " terrorists " . <p> The ministry updated the death toll from two earlier on Sunday , saying four people were killed " due to the occupation 's aggression on the village of Siir , Jenin district " , referring to Israel . <p> The Israeli military said later on Sunday in a joint statement with the Shin Bet internal security agency that a " terrorist cell responsible for several shooting attacks in the Gilboa area has been eliminated " in a strike . <p> It said four " terrorists " were killed in the strike . " Immediately after the strike , ( Israeli ) soldiers conducted a targeted raid in the area and located three weapons on the terrorists ' bodies , " the army said . <p> The Palestinian Red Crescent said earlier on Sunday that Israeli forces had been " preventing our teams from reaching the bombing site " near Siir . <p> " In the morning , the planes came and started bombing this area , " said Fares Irshaid , a resident of the village . " Shortly after that , the army stormed the entire area . They declared it a closed military zone . " <p> " There was a group of young men , including my nephew and the son of our neighbours , and we do not know their fate , " he told AFP . <p> Last month , the Israeli army launched several raids in Jenin , killing nine people , the majority of them Palestinian militants . <p> Two Palestinians , including a teenage boy , were also killed during an Israeli raid in the West Bank village of Yabad on November 24 , the Palestinian Authority said . <p> Violence in the West Bank , particularly in the north of the territory , has soared since the war in Gaza began in October last year after Hamas 's attack on Israel . <p> Israeli troops or settlers have killed at least 780 Palestinians in the West Bank during the Gaza war , according to the Ramallah-based health ministry . <p> Palestinian attacks on Israelis have also killed at least 24 people in the West Bank in the same period , according to Israeli official figures . 
@@118327660 <p> Eric Trump , his sister Tiffany Trump and her boyfriend Massad Boulos arrive for U.S. President Donald Trump 's acceptance speech as the 2020 Republican presidential nominee during the final event of the 2020 Republican National Convention on the South Lawn of the White House in Washington . File Photo : Reuters <p> Follow us <p> WASHINGTON/BEIRUT : U.S. President-elect Donald Trump on Sunday said Lebanese American businessman Massad Boulos would serve as senior adviser on Arab and Middle Eastern affairs . <p> Trump made the announcement on Truth Social . Boulos , the father-in-law of Trump 's daughter Tiffany , met repeatedly with Arab American and Muslim leaders during the election campaign . <p> It was the second time in recent days that Trump chose the father-in-law of one of his children to serve in his administration . <p> On Saturday , Trump said that he had picked his son-in-law Jared Kushner 's father , real estate mogul Charles Kushner , to serve as U.S. ambassador to France . <p> In recent months , Boulos campaigned for Trump to drum up Lebanese and Arab American support , even as the U.S.-backed Israel 's military campaign against Hezbollah in Lebanon . <p> Boulos has powerful roots in both countries . <p> His father and grandfather were both figures in Lebanese politics and his father-in-law was a key funder of the Free Patriotic Movement , a Christian party aligned with Hezbollah . <p> His son Michael and Tiffany Trump were married in an elaborate ceremony at Trump 's Florida Mar-a-Lago Club in November 2022 , after getting engaged in the White House Rose Garden during Trump 's first term . <p> Boulos has been in touch with interlocutors across Lebanon 's multipolar political world , three sources who spoke to him in recent months say , a rare feat in Lebanon , where decades-old rivalries between factions run deep . <p> Particularly notable is his ability to maintain relations with Hezbollah , they say . The Iranian-backed Shia Muslim party has a large number of seats in Lebanon 's parliament and ministers in the government . <p> Boulos is a friend of Suleiman Frangieh , a Christian ally of Hezbollah and its candidate for Lebanon 's presidency . He is also in touch with the Lebanese Forces Party , a vehemently anti-Hezbollah Christian faction , the sources say , and has ties to independent lawmakers . <p> Aron Lund , fellow at the Century Foundation think tank , said Boulos was well placed to influence Trump 's Middle East policy after playing a small but significant role in expanding Trump 's appeal to Arab American and Muslim voters during the campaign . <p> " Boulos ' Lebanese political past gives no real indication of a geostrategic or even national vision , but it demonstrates ambition and a set of political allies that will stand out in Trump 's circle like a sore thumb , " Lund wrote . <p> Michigan win <p> Boulos , a billionaire with extensive business ties in Nigeria , was born in Lebanon , but moved to Texas as a teenager , where he attended the University of Houston , earned a law degree and became a U.S. citizen . <p> His son and Trump 's daughter , whose mother is Trump 's second wife Marla Maples , met on the Greek island of Mykonos , at actor Lindsay Lohan 's club , People Magazine reported in 2022 . <p> Trump 's election win in Michigan came in part because of Boulos ' help flipping some of the 300,000 Arab Americans and Muslims in the state who overwhelmingly supported Biden in 2020 but opposed Biden 's policies in Israel , Gaza and Lebanon , Trump campaign officials and supporters told Reuters . <p> " Boulos played a big role in the outreach to Muslim voters , " said Rabiul Chowdhury , co-founder of Muslims for Trump . <p> Beginning in September , the Trump campaign held weekly meetings in person and via Zoom with dozens of Arab American and Muslim civic leaders and business executives . <p> Boulos spent weeks on the ground in Michigan , Pennsylvania and other states with big Arab American and Muslim populations , assuring audiences in private lunches and dinners that tapped his own connections to Lebanese American businessmen that Trump was committed to ending the wars in the Middle East . <p> The Trump campaign spent tens of millions of dollars on the effort to mobilize Arab American and Muslim voters , Boulos told Reuters in an interview shortly after the election . <p> Trump won endorsements from Muslim imams and the Muslim mayor of Hamtramck , another town near Detroit with a large Arab American population , as well as the large Bangladeshi community , and courted Iraqi Americans , Albanian Americans and others . <p> While the events on the ground in Lebanon played a factor , the economy did too . And conservative Arabs and Muslims were concerned about what they saw as the Democrats ' " far left ideology , " including support of transgender rights , Boulos said . <p> Boulos met with members of the 150,000 strong Albanian community in Michigan . <p> Political ambitions ? <p> The new role could offer Boulos the kind of political clout he could not achieve in Lebanon . He had a brief run for Lebanon 's parliament in 2018 alongside pro-Hezbollah candidates , but since then he has not consistently aligned himself with any particular party , sources in Lebanon said . <p> He hails from a Greek Orthodox family . In Lebanon 's sectarian powersharing system , that would cap his chances at a senior role in government at the level of deputy speaker of parliament . The post of president - the highest Christian role in the country - is reserved for Maronite Catholics . <p> While he used to travel to Lebanon frequently , he has not visited in the last four years , one of the sources said . <p> Some people in Lebanon were hopeful about the prospects of having a friendly face in Trump 's inner circle even before the announcement on Sunday . <p> " It 's a nice thing - and hopefully he will work for Lebanon . And Trump maybe is of the type who makes a promise and could possibly be more loyal to it than others , " said Hamdi Hawallah , a Lebanese man in his late 70s . <p> " So we 're optimistic about him . These days we hold on to a piece of driftwood just to be optimistic . " 
@@118327679 <p> WASHINGTON : US President-elect Donald Trump on Sunday named Lebanese-American businessman Massad Boulos as his senior advisor on Arab and Middle Eastern affairs , the latest family member to be appointed to a key position . <p> " I am proud to announce that Massad Boulos will serve as Senior Advisor to the President on Arab and Middle Eastern affairs , " Trump posted on Truth Social of the appointment , which puts his daughter Tiffany 's father-in-law in a major White House position . <p> Boulos was a key emissary for the Trump campaign , helping to mobilize Arab American and Muslim voters , many of whom were angry over President Joe Biden 's steadfast support for Israel in the Gaza war even as the civilian death toll rose into the tens of thousands . <p> The businessman will take over a difficult portfolio , with Israel 's war still raging in Gaza , a fragile ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah in Lebanon seeing early violations , and rebel forces in Syria making advances against the government of Bashar al-Assad . <p> Boulos 's son , Michael , is married to Trump 's daughter Tiffany . <p> On Saturday , Trump named real estate executive Charles Kushner -- the father of his son-in-law Jared -- as his pick to be the US ambassador to France , the latest case of Trump eschewing experience or expertise as the criterion for joining his team . <p> " Massad is an accomplished lawyer and a highly respected leader in the business world , with extensive experience on the International scene , " said Trump of his appointment to the Middle East advisor job . <p> " He has been a longtime proponent of Republican and Conservative values , an asset to my Campaign , and was instrumental in building tremendous new coalitions with the Arab American Community . " <p> The Republican referred to Boulos as " a dealmaker . " <p> Trump often promised on the campaign trail to bring a swift end to the wars in Gaza , Ukraine and elsewhere , without specifying how he would do so . <p> Speaking to UK-based broadcaster Sky News in October , Boulos said it was important to finish the war " quickly . " <p> " What do we mean by finishing it quickly is , I mean , you have some military targets that you have to accomplish , which is to get rid of the Hamas infrastructure and ability to launch new attacks and so on , " he said . <p> " Let 's move to peace , and let 's move to rebuilding Gaza and rebuilding Lebanon , " he added . <p> " We want Gaza to be prosperous . We want the Palestinian people to be prosperous , to live in peace , to live in harmony , side by side with the Israelis and full security on both sides . " <p> Boulos 's family operates at least two automotive parts distribution companies in Nigeria . <p> The businessman , a member of the Christian Maronite community , has in the past run in vain for a seat in the Lebanese parliament . <p> Trump has come under fire for a series of controversial picks for important posts in his incoming White House administration . <p> His choices have shown a pattern , so far , of selecting people , often wealthy , who are close to his family or of proven loyalty -- rather than exhibiting experience or expertise in a given field . <p> The elder Kushner , who is also a lawyer , served time in a federal prison for tax evasion . Trump pardoned him in 2020 towards the end of his first term . <p> On Saturday , Trump named loyalist Kash Patel as the next director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) , a move that would replace the agency 's current leader before the end of his term . <p> A fierce defender of the incoming president , Patel supports the Republican hardliner notion of an anti-Trump " deep state " of allegedly biased government bureaucrats working to stifle Trump from behind the scenes , even having written a book on the subject . 
@@118327721 <h> What Pakistan is experiencing today has its roots in the short-sighted grand decisions taken in 1979 and 2001 . <p> This piece is a corollary to my earlier published article titled " Endless-Immoral Wars , " where it was stated that , " The U.S. does not fight for the independent underdog , and it does not fight for liberty . A country or even a political party that attempts to be independent of U.S. militarism , or to truly promote private property rights in a way that costs the U.S. state some measure of power or profit , quickly finds itself a target of its wrath . Ukraine and Israel are current boutique wars of choice , connected to and very much like those the U.S. government pursued for profit and show in Iraq , Yugoslavia , Syria , Afghanistan , Libya , and elsewhere . Such boutique wars feed and satisfy the **33;1353;TOOLONG enablers and facilitate control over domestic resources and liberty . They promote endless state borrowing . They allow the state to scratch an itch , just as a snake sheds its skin to grow . " <p> U.S. presidents since Roosevelt have pursued his " big stick " foreign policy agenda . In the slightly less than a hundred years from 1898 to 1994 , the U.S. government successfully intervened to change governments in Latin America alone at least 41 times . Since the Second World War and especially after the fall of the Wall in 1989 , the U.S. has pursued foreign policy initiatives often perceived as escalatory rather than diplomatic in potentially serious geopolitical situations . Overall , while the United States engaged in 46 military interventions from 1948 -- 1991 , from 1992 -- 2017 , that number increased fourfold to 188 . In more than 80 countries worldwide , the U.S. manages over 750 military facilities . With such a spatial arrangement of military capabilities , it has , and continues to , influence major and minor conflicts -- most recently in Eastern Europe and the Middle East . <p> Pakistan fell into SEATO and CENTO traps , which ultimately led to its deleterious participation in the so-called jihad against the former USSR ( 1979 -- 1989 ) and then in the USA/NATO/Allies ' invasion of Afghanistan ( 2001 -- 2021 ) . In the late 1970s and 1980s , the U.S. managed billions of dollars from KSA to fund the so-termed ' Afghan Mujahideen , ' who fought the Soviets ' 10-year invasion of Afghanistan in the 1980s under the operational control of Pakistan 's prime intelligence agency , ISI . While those fighters eventually expelled Russian influence , they later fought one another for dominance . In the ensuing power struggle , a cadre of those rebels ( including Osama Bin Laden ) ultimately fused into the Taliban and al-Qaeda -- leading to the controversial 9/11 attacks inside the U.S. , which paved the way for the invasion of Afghanistan . Once again , Pakistan was coerced into playing its old role in reverse order , this time with disastrous repercussions , embroiling it in a web of internal and external threats . The 2001 U.S. invasion subsequently paved the way for incursions and the complete destruction of resource-rich and economically stable Muslim countries in the Middle East . <p> Since 9/11 , the U.S. has expended over $8 trillion on wars with " enemies " and " friends " in the Middle East . Iraq , Syria , Libya , and Yemen define the former ; Israel , Egypt , Saudi Arabia , and Jordan the latter . However , thousands of American soldiers and hundreds of thousands of innocent civilians have perished due to America 's foreign policy interventions , under the false justification of " nation-building " and bringing " democracy " to targeted countries . Sane minds among American veterans opine that , irrespective of America 's decades-long failed foreign policy initiatives in the region , there are those who remain cautious about further meddling in the Middle East . <p> The CIA- and MI6-engineered overthrow of the democratically elected Iranian leader Mohammed Mosaddegh , followed by repeated regime changes in Afghanistan , Central Asian Republics , and other countries of South Asia , including Pakistan , from the 1950s to the present , is well known and established . The hypocrisy surrounding the spread of democracy is a blatant bluff , as popularly elected representatives are often replaced by autocratic rulers , fake aristocrats , monarchs , and ' democracy hustlers . ' <p> Former American Congressman Ron Paul stated in 2008 : " Terrorists do n't come here and attack us because we 're rich and we 're free . They come and attack us because we 're over there . " Nevertheless , the ' Immoral Wars ' continue ceaselessly . Even though Western meddling in the affairs of Ukraine was a b ? te noire for Russia , the U.S. helped engineer a coup to overthrow the democratically elected president of Ukraine , Viktor Yanukovych , in 2014 ; he had announced plans to sign an economic agreement with Russia instead of the EU . <p> The complete destruction of Gaza and the mass killing of innocent Palestinian Muslims , with the direct involvement of the U.S. and its allies , continues unabated , with the UN and ICC as bystanders . The world has been enduring the U.S. 's ' hammer-versus-nail-head approach , ' with over-reliance on destabilising sanctions and military force rather than diplomacy , intelligence gathering , economic statecraft , and persuasion . <p> Be that as it may , weaker states find themselves suffering under such high-handedness by a superpower now beginning to be challenged by two main competitors : China and Russia , along with their alliances such as SCO , BRI , CSTO , and BRICS . Pakistan has remained a major victim of U.S. interventionism in politics , economy , and security -- perhaps the worst-hit example of ' economic hit men . ' What Pakistan is experiencing today has its roots in the short-sighted grand decisions taken in 1979 and 2001 under American duress and the carrot-and-stick policy . Once bitten , twice shy -- the only way out is to acknowledge past strategic blunders and join the right blocs to achieve long-overdue political , economic , and security stability . <p> Saleem Qamar ButtThe writer is a retired senior army officer with experience in international relations , military diplomacy and analysis of geo-political and strategic security issues . 
@@118327723 <h> In a world where alliances shift rapidly , Pakistan can not afford compla-cency . <p> Pakistan is finally regaining its footing on the global stage . After years of being side-lined in international and regional affairs , the nation is now making a conscious effort to reclaim its place , evident through its active participation in global forums and frequent hosting of high-level events . While there 's still a long way to go , this momentum is both commendable and much needed . <p> True to its principles , Pakistan continues to stand tall for the oppressed , advocating for Palestine 's freedom , supporting the two-state solution , and pressing the world to resolve the decades-old Kashmir dispute . But let 's face it : being vocal about these issues is not enough unless Pakistan strengthens its alliances and builds a more powerful voice internationally . <p> In this context , the recent three-day visit of Belarusian President Aleksandr Lukashenko was more than just a diplomatic handshake -- it was a statement of intent . His arrival , preceded by a high-powered Belarusian delegation led by Foreign Minister Maxim Ryzhenkov and comprising nine ministers and 46 business leaders , sent a clear message : Belarus is serious about doing business with Pakistan , not just exchanging pleasantries . <p> Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif also met President Lukashenko to discuss ways to deepen this relationship . The outcome ? A roadmap for 2025-27 that aims to transform these diplomatic niceties into actionable plans , especially in agriculture , technology , and manufacturing . Let 's be honest -- Pakistan 's agriculture sector is in desperate need of technological intervention . If Belarus can offer solutions to boost productivity , why not embrace them wholeheartedly ? <p> But it was n't just business on the agenda . The humanitarian crisis in Gaza found space in their discussions , with both leaders expressing profound grief over the ongoing slaughter of innocent civilians . Prime Minister Sharif rightly pointed out that global peace is a pipe dream as long as unresolved crises like Gaza and Kashmir fester . <p> Several agreements and MoUs were signed during the visit , covering areas ranging from environmental protection to vocational education . On paper , these agreements sound promising , but the real question is : will they translate into tangible progress , or will they gather dust like so many others before them ? <p> One ca n't ignore the elephant in the room : trade between Pakistan and Belarus is embarrassingly low , amounting to just $50 million annually . Yes , we export surgical instruments , and they send us tractors , but that 's hardly the kind of robust economic partnership we should aspire to . The eight MoUs worth $17 million signed during the business forum are a start , but let 's be frank -- they 're a drop in the ocean compared to what 's possible . Belarus 's interest in China 's Belt and Road Initiative could work to Pakistan 's advantage , potentially acting as a bridge for deeper engagement with Russia . But for that to happen , Pakistan needs to step up its game , expanding its vision beyond basic trade and focusing on long-term strategic partnerships . <p> At the end of the day , the Belarusian President 's visit was a welcome development -- a much-needed reminder that Pakistan still has friends willing to invest in its potential . The real challenge now lies in keeping this momentum alive . Continued exchanges of leadership , delegations , and business ideas could pave the way for a more dynamic and mutually beneficial relationship . <p> In a world where alliances shift rapidly , Pakistan can not afford complacency . The ball is in our court -- let 's not fumble it . <p> export surgical instruments , and they send us tractors . It 's a start , sure , but it 's a far cry from the kind of trade volume that would truly reflect our potential . The recent MoUs worth $17 million are a step in the right direction , but they 're just that -- a step . What we need now is momentum , sustained by frequent exchanges of leaders , delegations , and business forums . Belarus 's interest in China 's Belt and Road Initiative adds another layer of opportunity , particularly given Pakistan 's central role in the project . <p> At its heart , this visit was about more than politics or trade ; it was about building a relationship that benefits both nations . Pakistan has a lot to gain from Belarus 's technological expertise , particularly in agriculture , where we desperately need innovation to tackle food security challenges . <p> So , here 's the bottom line : this visit was no mere diplomatic exercise . It was a meaningful step towards strengthening ties with a country that clearly sees potential in Pakistan . If we play our cards right , this could be the start of something transformative -- not just for our economies but for our shared vision of a more equitable global order . 
@@118327740 <h> JI Emir demands resignation of interior minister <p> LAHORE - Jamaat-e-Islami ( JI ) Emir Hafiz Naeem-ur-Rehman has demanded the immediate resignation of Interior Minister Mohsin Naqvi over the D-Chowk incident . Addressing a press conference at Mansoorah on Friday , he also called for the formation of an empowered and credible judicial commission to investigate the incident . The firing incident at D-Chowk , he said , was a brutal warning to the nation not to protest against the bogus government formed through manipulated Form-47 results . It was a fascist act which is unacceptable , he said , adding the government was bent upon crushing the masses instead of providing them relief . <p> He called for a broader political consensus to heal the wounds of people . <p> Rehman criticized the government for simultaneously suppressing public dissent and curbing media freedom . He urged the immediate withdrawal of false cases against journalists Matiullah Jan and Shakir Awan and demanded their unconditional release . <p> " The restrictions on freedom of expression today are worse than those imposed during martial law eras , " he remarked , condemning the government 's actions at D-Chowk . He also strongly criticized the resolution passed by the Balochistan Assembly to ban the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf ( PTI ) , calling it shameful and condemnable . Rehman questioned the absence of PTI leadership during chaos at D-Chowk , stating , " The D-Chowk tragedy serves as a lesson for political leaders who abandon their workers during difficult times . " Political parties , he said , should not be family enterprises or the property of billionaires and feudal lords and they must embody true democratic values , he added . Commenting on the state of the economy , Rehman dismissed claims of linking so-called improvement in the stock market to the national economy as mere speculation , arguing that such gains provide no relief to the public . " Inflation , unemployment , and the lack of access to quality education are crushing the people , " he said . He criticized the privatization of national institutions at throwaway prices and the Punjab government 's decision to hand over schools to NGOs . <p> On Palestine , he called for global solidarity and immediate action by Islamic countries to aid Gaza residents , emphasizing that November 29 is observed worldwide as the Day of Solidarity with Palestine . <p> Accompanied by JI Secretary General Ameer-ul-Azeem , Deputy Emir Dr. Osama Razi , Information Secretary Qaiser Sharif , and Lahore Emir Ziauddin Ansari Advocate , Rehman also highlighted the growing disconnect between the military and the public . " While the military sacrifices are commendable , the actions of a few individuals are creating rifts between the public and the army . Institutions must rethink their approach . " He said Jamaat-e-Islami would continue to fearlessly speak the truth and advocate for public rights despite all challenges . 
@@118363638 <h> Melissa Barrera says her views on Palestine almost closed Hollywood 's doors for her <p> Actor Melissa Barrera , who gained popularity after doing the role of Sam Carpenter , has shared her views on how she has been struggling to find work after her views on Palestine drew the ire of powerful quarters linked to Hollywood . <p> The 34-year-old Mexican actor said the previous year was the most difficult year of her life . She said it seemed , during that period , that her career was over . <p> Barrera shared her views on a social media post in October 2023 . She said in an Instagram post , " Gaza has been turned into a concentration camp . This is a clear genocide . " <p> She also blamed the Western media for playing a biased role . " The Western media shows a one-sided picture . We do not need more hate . No more Islamophobia and no more hostility , " she said . Barrera said after that controversy , she struggled to find opportunities " as she has been getting run-of-the-mill roles but not something she is hopeful for . " <p> She said no doubt if she continued to be silent on the Gaza issue , the Hollywood roles were lucrative but she could not compromise on her principles . 
@@118363645 <h> Create External Threats for Internal Support <p> One of the primary purposes of political leaders across the globe is to remain relevant for their voters . To do so , at times political expediencies do override state interests and even public interests . Sometimes such politicians get away with their acts but not always . The political elite at times overlook the public mood and face the consequences in the face of losing their power base . <p> Since the tragic events of 9/11 , security considerations have overtaken domestic issues in many states and election debates in many countries are centred around security imperatives . Even in the US where domestic issues always dominated the campaign , the security issues have now become important . <p> Seeing the public interest in security matters , the politicians thought it appropriate to build a narrative around security issues . Generally , the respective leaderships in many countries decided to create an element of external security fears among the populace to earn domestic support . The political leaders first created a bleak security scenario and convinced the people that there was a serious threat to their lives , liberty , and the values they had guarded jealously for so long . Once the political elite notices that their security-insecurity narrative is taking root among the populace , and people seem to be concerned about their security as well as community security , they come up with remedial measures to impress the people . Usually , they would project themselves as more appropriate to deal with serious security threats . Concurrently , they would paint the opposition parties as casual or inept in dealing with such serious security matters . <p> One can recall the Republicans ' election campaign of 2004 when George W , Bush was seeking reelection in the first elections after 9/11 ; the entire campaign was focused on the Global War on Terror ( GWOT ) . Bush successfully created fear of another 9/11 among the people and managed to secure the second term by winning with a comfortable lead in Electoral Votes ( EV ) . Bush-Cheney earned 286 EVs against the requirement of 270 and defeated John Kerry and John Edwards . <p> Politicians worldwide create security fears among the populace to earn domestic support during elections . <p> 9/11 has proved to be a game-changer in the electoral history of the US . The security issues are now figured out in every election campaign . In the ongoing election campaign also , Ukraine , Gaza , Lebanon , Yemen , and Iran are furiously debated between the contestants . While the Wall , immigrants , abortion , and the economy are still figured out prominently , security matters have attracted a lot of attention in the media . <p> Elsewhere in South Asia , one can recall the Indian Elections of 2019 when BJP 's leadership stage-managed the Pulwama incident and blamed Pakistan without any investigations into the events . Prime Minister Modi orchestrated the Balakot strikes inside Pakistan to which Pakistan Air Force responded in kind . Despite losing at least three aircraft ( two combat aircraft and a helicopter ) , Modi successfully created fear of a wider war among its voters and easily managed to win the second term . <p> Likewise , Israel 's Prime Minister Netanyahu also adopts a similar security-insecurity narrative during the elections . He successfully projects himself as the saviour of the Jewish state , even if there are several other issues that the people of Israel are faced with including settlements . <p> Security as an election issue has now become a norm in the democratic world . One can see the same in Europe since the start of the Russia-Ukraine war in February 2022 . Presidential elections were scheduled to be held in Ukraine in March or April 2024 . However , since the incumbent " Volodymyr Zelenskyy issued , and the Ukrainian parliament approved , a declaration of martial law on 24 February 2022 in response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine , no elections were held because Ukrainian law does not allow presidential elections to be held when martial law is in effect . " <p> In Pakistan too , the security figures out prominently in the election campaigns and the contestants often blame each other for risking the state security for winning the support of the people . The parties tend to project themselves as the saviours of the nation and paint the opposition as traitors and inept in dealing with such sensitive issues . Also , the political elite tends to win the support of the establishment to project themselves to be on the same page so that people vote for them in the larger interest of the state . Unfortunately , the issues are not debated in public and therefore the politicians can get away with such serious allegations against each other in the run for general elections that are held every five years . However , due to the revolution in information technology and the popularity of social media , the people in the urban areas are more aware of such issues and have started to question the political elite in these matters . <p> The fact remains that politicians worldwide create security fears among the populace to earn domestic support during elections . <p> The writer of this article has authored three international books : " Nuclear Deterrence and Conflict Management Between India and Pakistan " " South Asia Needs Hybrid Peace " and " Understanding Sun Tzu and the Art of Hybrid War . " 
@@118363677 <h> 33 hostages killed in Gaza due to Israeli actions : Hamas <p> A Palestinian woman carries a child as they walk past the rubble of houses destroyed in previous strikes during the Israeli military offensive , amid the Israel-Hamas conflict , in Khan Younis in the southern Gaza Strip November 6 , 2024 . PHOTO : REUTERS <p> Hamas has claimed that 33 captives held by the group in Gaza have been killed since the onset of Israel 's nearly 14-month-long war in the besieged enclave . In a video statement released on Monday , the militant group stated that the deaths were the result of " the stubbornness of the war criminal " Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and " his ongoing aggression . " <p> Hamas also detailed the incidents in which the captives were killed , with the majority of the fatalities attributed to Israeli airstrikes . Some of the deaths occurred during failed rescue attempts by Israeli military forces . According to Hamas , the first such incident took place on October 9 , 2023 , when an Israeli airstrike killed four captives . The most recent killing occurred during an Israeli military operation in northern Gaza last month . <p> The video concluded with a warning : " By continuing your mad war , you may lose your captives forever . Do what needs to be done before it 's too late . " <p> Diplomatic push for ceasefire and captive release <p> Hamas 's announcement comes as key international mediators , including Egypt , Qatar , and the United States , intensify efforts to broker a ceasefire . This initiative aims to secure the release of Israeli captives , with recent truce talks in Lebanon offering some hope for a diplomatic breakthrough . <p> Meanwhile , the White House issued a statement on Monday mourning the death of Omer Neutra , a U.S. citizen who was serving in the Israeli military . Neutra , a tank commander , was killed by Hamas during its attack on Israel on October 7 , 2023 . <p> In a separate statement , incoming U.S. President Donald Trump warned on social media that there would be " ALL HELL TO PAY " if Hamas fails to release the captives by January 20 , the day he takes office . <p> Palestinian authority and Gaza talks <p> On Monday , delegations from the Palestinian factions Fatah and Hamas met in Cairo to discuss the future management of Gaza following the end of Israel 's war . Egyptian Foreign Minister Badr Abdelatty confirmed the talks , noting that both sides were aiming to reach an understanding on the Palestinian Authority 's ( PA ) role in managing daily affairs in Gaza after the conflict . <p> Israel has expressed opposition to allowing the Palestinian Authority to take control of Gaza , but the U.S. has advocated for a " reformed " PA to oversee the enclave . <p> Continued Israeli bombardment <p> As diplomatic talks continue , Israeli forces have pressed on with their offensive in Gaza , with airstrikes targeting the Jabalia area in the north and Abasan al-Kabira in the south . Gaza 's Government Media Office has reported that at least 3,700 people have been killed or are missing since the siege of northern Gaza began 60 days ago . <p> Since the outbreak of the conflict on October 7 , 2023 , at least 44,466 Palestinians have been killed and 105,358 wounded , according to United Nations experts , who have described Israel 's actions in Gaza as " genocide . " On the Israeli side , more than 1,100 people were killed in the Hamas-led attacks on October 7 , and over 200 individuals were taken captive . 
@@118363678 <h> ICC president warns attacks from US , Russia threaten court 's survival <p> Judge Tomoko Akane , president of the International Criminal Court , have called threats and attacks on the court ' appalling . ' PHOTO : AFP <p> The president of the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) has issued a stark warning that ongoing attacks on the tribunal by the United States and Russia " jeopardise its very existence . " <p> In her address to ICC members at an annual conference in The Hague on Monday , ICC President Tomoko Akane condemned the " coercive measures , threats , pressure , and acts of sabotage " directed at the court . Though she did not name the countries involved , her remarks were a direct reference to the two major powers , which have criticised the court after it issued arrest warrants against officials from Israel and Russia . <p> Akane told the conference , " The court is being threatened with draconian economic sanctions by another permanent member of the Security Council as if it was a terrorist organisation . " <p> Threats from Washington over Israeli arrest warrants <p> The United States has strongly objected to the ICC 's actions , particularly after it issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defence Minister Yoav Gallant over alleged war crimes in Gaza . In response , US politicians have proposed sanctions on ICC officials . <p> Senator Lindsey Graham , who will hold significant power in Congress starting in January , labelled the ICC a " dangerous joke " and threatened to penalise any country cooperating with the tribunal . " To any ally -- Canada , Britain , Germany , France -- if you try to help the ICC , we 're going to sanction you , " Graham declared on Fox News . <p> In June , the Republican-controlled US House of Representatives passed a bill to impose sanctions on the court after ICC Prosecutor Karim Khan requested the arrest warrants for the Israeli officials . However , the bill has not yet been considered by the Senate , which is still under Democratic control . <p> Further escalating tensions , US Senator Tom Cotton suggested using military force against the court following the ICC 's issuance of the arrest warrants . <p> Russia 's retaliation over Ukraine war crimes warrants <p> Russia , meanwhile , has also reacted strongly to the ICC 's actions . In November , Moscow issued an arrest warrant for ICC Judge Haykel Ben Mahfoudh , and previously indicted Khan and other officials after the court issued warrants for President Vladimir Putin and senior Russian military leaders over alleged war crimes in Ukraine . <p> Akane condemned these efforts as " appalling " and warned that attempts to undermine the court 's authority would set a dangerous precedent . " The fall of the court would imply the fall of the rule of law in the international community , " she said . " Victims would no longer be able to obtain justice . For many of them , a world without the ICC is inconceivable . " <p> ICC 's role in upholding international law <p> The ICC , established in 2002 , is tasked with prosecuting war crimes , crimes against humanity , genocide , and the crime of aggression when member states are unwilling or unable to do so themselves . Its decision to issue arrest warrants for Israeli leaders marked the first time the court had taken such action against a staunch Western ally . <p> Akane reaffirmed the ICC 's commitment to its mission , saying , " We firmly reject any attempt to influence the independence and the impartiality of the court . " The ICC remains one of the most important international bodies for holding individuals accountable for the gravest atrocities , yet its independence is under increasing pressure from powerful nations . <p> US politicians are threatening to sanction court officials over the arrest warrant against Israel 's Benjamin Netanyahu <p> The president of the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) has warned that attacks on the tribunal , which have come largely from Washington and Moscow , " jeopardise its very existence " . <p> Addressing ICC members in The Hague at an annual conference on Monday , ICC President Tomoko Akane said the court faced " coercive measures , threats , pressure and acts of sabotage " without naming the United States and Russia . <p> The court has been facing rebukes from the two countries after issuing arrest warrants for Israeli and Russian officials over wars in Gaza and Ukraine . <p> " The court is being threatened with draconian economic sanctions by another permanent member of the Security Council as if it was a terrorist organisation , " Akane said in her address . <p> US politicians have been threatening to impose sanctions on ICC officials after the tribunal issued arrest warrants against Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his former Defence Minister Yoav Gallant over suspected war crimes in Gaza . <p> Last month , US Senator Lindsey Graham , whose Republican Party will be in control of both houses of Congress and the White House starting in January , called the ICC a " dangerous joke " and threatened penalties against the court and any country that cooperates with it . <p> " To any ally -- Canada , Britain , Germany , France -- if you try to help the ICC , we 're going to sanction you , " Graham said on Fox News . <p> In June , the Republican-controlled US House of Representatives passed a bill to sanction the court in response to ICC Prosecutor Karim Khan 's request for the arrest warrants against Israeli officials . <p> The measure has so far not been considered by the Senate , which at this point is controlled by Democrats . <p> After the ICC issued arrest warrants for Netanyahu , Gallant and a Hamas leader last month , US Senator Tom Cotton suggested using military force against The Hague-based tribunal . <p> The US and Israel are not members of the ICC , and they have rejected the court 's investigations of alleged abuses in Gaza and the occupied West Bank . <p> However , the court has ruled that it has jurisdiction in those areas because the State of Palestine is a signatory to the Rome Statute , which established the tribunal . <p> " The court has been subjected to attacks seeking to undermine its legitimacy and ability to administer justice and realise international law and fundamental rights -- coercive measures , threats , pressure and acts of sabotage , " Akane said . <p> She called the efforts " appalling " . <p> Last week , the court decried the " recent issuance of arrest warrants aimed at threatening the liberty and integrity of two judges " . Russia had issued an arrest warrant for ICC Judge Haykel Ben Mahfoudh in November . <p> Moscow also previously indicted Khan and other court officials after the ICC issued arrest warrants for President Vladimir Putin and Russian military leaders last year over alleged war crimes committed during Russia 's invasion of Ukraine . <p> Akane warned on Monday that the fall of the court through these threats would " imply the fall of the rule of law in the international community " . <p> " Victims would no longer be able to obtain justice . For many of them , a world without the ICC is inconceivable , " the ICC president said . <p> " We firmly reject any attempt to influence the independence and the impartiality of the court , " she added . <p> The ICC was established in 2002 to prosecute war crimes , crimes against humanity , genocide and the crime of aggression when member states are unwilling or unable to do so themselves . <p> Its warrant against the Israeli leaders marked the first time the court issued an order for a staunchly close Western ally . 
@@118363682 <h> Gaza now has highest rate of child amputees per capita , UN reports <p> A Palestinian girl reacts in the aftermath of Israeli strikes , in Khan Younis in the southern Gaza Strip , October 14 . PHOTO : REUTERS <p> Gaza now holds the tragic distinction of having the highest number of child amputees per capita in the world , according to the United Nations . This follows over a year of devastating conflict between Israel and Palestinian factions in the enclave . <p> UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres made the statement on Monday , addressing a Cairo conference aimed at accelerating humanitarian aid to Gaza . His remarks , delivered by his deputy , described the situation in Gaza as " appalling and apocalyptic " . Guterres highlighted that many children in Gaza have lost limbs and undergone surgeries without anaesthesia , underscoring the extreme suffering faced by the population . <p> " The war has left Gaza with the highest number of child amputees per capita anywhere in the world , " Guterres said . " Many children are losing limbs without even anaesthesia . " <p> Warning of grave international crimes <p> Guterres also warned that the conditions in Gaza may amount to the " gravest international crimes " . He pointed to the widespread malnutrition and imminent famine , stressing the collapse of Gaza 's health system . " Malnutrition is rampant ... Famine is imminent . Meanwhile , the health system has collapsed , " he said . <p> The UN Secretary-General also condemned the severe restrictions on aid delivery , calling the current levels of aid " grossly insufficient " . According to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency ( UNRWA ) , only 65 aid trucks per day were able to enter Gaza in the past month , compared to the pre-war average of 500 . <p> Aid delivery ' Grossly Insufficient ' <p> International aid agencies have repeatedly sounded the alarm over the deteriorating humanitarian situation in Gaza , warning that civilians are on the brink of famine . The volume of aid reaching the territory has dropped significantly since the onset of the Israeli offensive . <p> Israel , which imposed a complete siege on Gaza early in the conflict , has blamed the problems with aid on the inability of relief organisations to handle and distribute the large quantities of supplies . However , Guterres argued that the crisis is not about logistics but " a crisis of political will and of respect for fundamental principles of international humanitarian law " . <p> He criticised the continued blockade , stating , " The blockade of aid to Gaza is not a crisis of logistics , but a crisis of political will . " <p> Blocked aid and denied access <p> UNRWA reported that all of its attempts to deliver aid into northern Gaza between October 6 and November 25 had either been " denied " or " impeded " , with fierce fighting in the area making it increasingly difficult to reach those in need . <p> Guterres reiterated that UNRWA plays an " irreplaceable " role in providing vital services to millions of Palestinians . He added , " If UNRWA is forced to close , the responsibility of replacing its vital services would rest with Israel . " <p> As the war continues , the international community faces growing calls for action to address the escalating humanitarian crisis in Gaza . 
@@118363729 <p> Major contributions include $250,000 to Ashley Biden 's Women 's Wellness ( Spa ) ce in Philadelphia , aiding trauma recovery for women , and $130,000 to Humanity Crew , which supports mental health services for displaced families and aid workers in conflict zones like Gaza and Turkey . The foundation also donated $90,000 to The Markup , a nonprofit tackling digital misinformation , and $125,000 to the NAACP 's Digital Civil Rights Award , which this year honored Dr. Joy Buolamwini for her work addressing biases in AI . <p> Archewell 's revenue , supported by individual donors and grants , reached $5.7 million in total . Despite prior scrutiny over unreported funds in 2022 , the foundation clarified these discrepancies , noting they are included in the latest filings . Meghan and Harry remain unpaid directors of the foundation , with key staff costs totaling $997,285 . <p> Co-executive directors James Holt and Shauna Nep said in the foundation 's Impact Report : " Our purpose is simple yet impactful : to show up , do good , and drive positive change for communities in need . " <p> For 2024 , Archewell aims to expand its initiatives , continuing its focus on mental health , community building , and digital rights . 
@@118363816 <h> ICC collected more evidence in last 18 months than it has in past 20 years , says chief prosecutor <p> The International Criminal Court ( ICC ) has collected more evidence and information in the past 18 months than it has in the 20 years since it was founded , its chief prosecutor said on Monday . <p> Karim Khan emphasized the court 's recent intense efforts during his address at the 23rd session of the Assembly of States Parties ( ASP ) to the ICC 's Rome Statute . <p> The ICC has received the most evidence and documents in its history in the last year , with non-governmental organizations ( NGOs ) and victims submitting a large number of documents and evidence under Article 15 of the Rome Statute , he noted . <p> Of the 30 arrest warrants issued by the court , the chief prosecutor said 18 were issued within the last three years . <p> Stressing that the law must be applied equally to everyone , Khan said the protection that people on one side of the world enjoy is no different than that on the other . <p> He touched on the importance of working and acting together to better fulfill the court 's purpose and the tasks assigned to it under the Rome Statute . <p> On Nov. 21 , the International Criminal Court issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant for war crimes and crimes against humanity in Gaza . 
@@118363848 <h> Seven and a half months later , 12,000 more Palestinians have been killed . <p> History wo n't be kind to Joseph Biden 's presidency in evaluating his handling of Israel 's genocidal war on Gaza . At best , his response will be judged weak and feckless -- at worst , enabling of or even complicit in the crimes committed . <p> Examples of both fecklessness and complicity abound : On 4 April 2024 , a New York Times story headlined " President Biden told Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu that future U.S. support ' will be determined ' by how Israel treats civilians in Gaza " noted : " President Biden threatened on Thursday to condition future support for Israel on how it addresses his concerns about civilian casualties and the humanitarian crisis in Gaza , prompting Israel to commit to permitting more food and other supplies into the besieged enclave in hopes of placating him . <p> " During a tense 30-minute call with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel , Mr Biden for the first time leveraged U.S. aid to influence the conduct of the war against Hamas that has inflamed many Americans and others around the world . " <p> After the call , Secretary of State Antony Blinken commented , " If we do n't see the changes we need to see , there 'll be changes in policy . " <p> Seven and a half months later , 12,000 more Palestinians have been killed in schools , hospitals , and mosques where they sought safety . Crowded tent sites of desperate refugees have been bombed , and Israel has continued to block deliveries of humanitarian aid . The administration 's " threat " was for naught . <p> Then on 13 October , Secretary Blinken and Secretary of Defence Lloyd Austin wrote to the Israeli government expressing concern with the " dire " humanitarian situation in Gaza , citing the isolation of the northern part of the territory , repeated evacuation orders , the blocking of humanitarian assistance , targeting aid workers , and other Israeli policies adversely impacting Palestinians . They gave Israel 30 days to improve the humanitarian situation and protection of civilians in Gaza or face unstated consequences . <p> After Democratic losses in November , some commentators assumed that , relieved of political pressures , President Biden might move boldly to address the crisis in Gaza and challenge both Netanyahu and the incoming Trump administration . But four Biden administration actions during the past week demonstrate that such hopes were in vain . As the Blinken/Austin letter 's deadline approached , U.S. and international aid groups and Biden administration officials charged with humanitarian matters communicated to the Secretaries that the situation in Gaza had worsened , shipments of food , water , and medicines remained intolerably inadequate , aid workers were still being threatened , and there was impending famine . With winter approaching , they warned the humanitarian crisis would only grow more desperate . Nevertheless , on 12 November , the U.S. issued a delusional passing grade to Israel for " improvements " in Gaza . <p> On 20 November , a new UN Security Council ceasefire resolution negotiated over months was again vetoed by the U.S. , stymying the international community 's efforts to end the war . Even more troubling was the patently false U.S. claim that it opposed the resolution for not calling for the immediate release of Israeli hostages , when it specifically includes " immediate , unconditional , and permanent ceasefire and the release of all hostages . " <p> Also , on 20 November , the U.S. Senate voted on three bills opposing billions in U.S. weapons to Israel . Senators in support argued that supplying these weapons violated U.S. laws restricting such shipments when the recipient country uses them to risk civilian lives or impede humanitarian assistance . Ignoring the charges ' factual basis and evidence of violations of U.S. laws , the White House issued senators " talking points " charging that " Disapproving arms purchases for Israel at this moment would ... put wind on the sails of Iran , Hezbollah , and Hamas . " The White House " Hamas-baiting " leading senators of its own party was deeply troubling . <p> The next day , the International Criminal Court issued arrest warrants for Netanyahu and former Defence Minister Yoav Gallant , charging them as criminally responsible for acts including murder , persecution , and starvation as part of a " widespread and systematic attack against the civilian population of Gaza . " President Biden 's response denounced the decision , saying : " Arrest warrants against Israeli leaders are outrageous ... We will always stand with Israel against threats to its security . " <p> So , President Biden will apparently end his term without a change of heart or policy . In just the last month , he rejected multiple opportunities to distance himself from Israeli policies . With these rejections , he will " own " this war . It will be his legacy . <p> Dr. James J. ZogbyThe writer is the President of Arab American Institute . 
@@118363882 <h> Dar to represent Pakistan in ECO meeting in Iran today <p> ISLAMABAD - Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister , Ishaq Dar , is set to visit Iran from today ( December 2-3 ) to participate in the 28th meeting of the Economic Cooperation Organisation ( ECO ) Council of Ministers . During his visit , Dar will officially sign the charter for the establishment of an ECO Clean Energy Centre , a significant step towards regional cooperation in sustainable energy development . <p> On the sidelines of the meeting , he is expected to hold bilateral discussions with key ministers and dignitaries , focusing on enhancing mutual ties and exploring new avenues for collaboration , the foreign ministry said . Foreign Office spokesperson Mumtaz Zahra Baloch said beyond economic issues , Dar will address pressing geopolitical concerns during his two-day stay . <p> She said the DPM will reaffirm Pakistan 's deep concerns over the ongoing hostilities in the Middle East , particularly the escalating tensions in Gaza and Lebanon . The spokesperson said Dar will emphasize the urgent need for de-escalation , highlighting the potential risks to regional peace and stability . This high-level gathering , hosted by Tehran , aims to strengthen economic collaboration among member states . The visit comes shortly after Iranian Foreign Minister Seyed Abbas Araghchi 's two-day trip to Islamabad , where he engaged in extensive talks with Pakistani officials . Their discussions centered on the evolving Middle East crisis and ways to bolster bilateral relations between the two neighboring countries . Pakistan and Iran have historically enjoyed close ties , underscored by numerous agreements in various sectors , including trade , technology , agriculture , and health . In a notable development earlier this year , the late Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi visited Pakistan , marking a milestone in efforts to promote deeper bilateral cooperation . DPM Dar 's upcoming visit is expected to further cement these ties while contributing to broader regional stability and economic integration . 
@@118382345 <h> Hamas is hosted by Egypt in a new truce attempt in Gaza . <h> CAIRO : According to two Hamas sources , Hamas leaders met with Egyptian security officials on Sunday in an effort to renew the call for a ceasefire in the Gaza battle . <p> According to two Israeli officials , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu planned to call a meeting of his security council to discuss the issue . <p> This was the first time Hamas has visited Cairo since the United States declared it would relaunch efforts to negotiate a truce , including a prisoner deal , in cooperation with Qatar , Egypt , and Turkey . <p> According to White House National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan , there is now a greater prospect of a ceasefire and prisoner agreement in Gaza . <p> Hamas are secluded . He told CNN on Sunday , " Hezbollah is no longer fighting with them , and their supporters in Iran and elsewhere are busy with other conflicts . " <p> Therefore , I believe we might have an opportunity to advance , though I wo n't say for sure when that will occur . We have so many close calls but failed to cross the finish line . According to him , the White House is " not there yet " on the ceasefire and prisoner swap agreement . <p> " To attempt to make that happen , we are actively working . Sullivan told NBC , " There is activity even today , and we are deeply engaged with the key players in the region . " <p> A day after Israel struck Hezbollah targets in Lebanon , days into a precarious ceasefire in its war with the organization , Sullivan made these remarks . <p> Israeli Foreign Minister Gideon Saar stated in a statement in Jerusalem that there were " indications " that an agreement for the release of detainees may be reached . <p> " There are indications that the situation that has emerged , including the agreement with Lebanon , may lead to a higher level of flexibility from Hamas , " he stated . <p> There 's a desire to proceed with this . I 'm hoping it can move forward . We have a duty to uphold , and we are dedicated to getting the hostages back . <p> But according to Saar , Hamas " can not be allowed " to maintain its hold on Gaza . <p> GCC gatheringFollowing calls for a truce by host Kuwait following nearly 14 months of Israeli atrocities in Palestinian territory , a summit of leadership from the Gulf Cooperation Council ( GCC ) also called for an urgent ceasefire in Gaza on Sunday . <p> In the summit 's closing declaration , the six-member group demanded " the delivery of all humanitarian and relief aid and basic needs to the residents of Gaza " in addition to a " immediate and permanent cessation of Israeli fire and military operations . " <p> The international community was earlier urged to establish " an immediate ceasefire , providing international protection for innocent civilians and ensuring the opening of safe corridors and the arrival of urgent humanitarian aid , " by Kuwaiti Emir Sheikh Meshal al-Ahmad al-Sabah . <p> Sheikh Meshal attacked what he called " double standards in the application of relevant international laws , charters , and resolutions " in his speech , claiming that they have jeopardized " the security and stability of the region . " <p> According to Gaza officials , Israel 's military campaign in the enclave has killed over 44,400 people and forced almost all of its residents to flee . <h> PKKH ( Pakistan Ka Khuda Hafiz ) is a respected Pakistani news website offering accurate and comprehensive coverage of politics , culture , and global affairs . With a commitment to objective reporting and insightful analysis , PKKH provides readers with a well-rounded perspective on current events . The platform encourages community engagement and leverages digital technology to reach a wide audience , contributing to informed discussions and awareness . 
@@118383247 <p> Global arms sales by the 100 largest companies reached $632 billion in 2023 , marking a 4.2% real-terms increase compared to 2022 , according to data released by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute ( SIPRI ) . <p> Arms revenue rose across all regions , with notable growth among companies in Russia and the Middle East . Smaller arms producers were particularly effective in responding to rising global demand , driven by conflicts in Gaza and Ukraine , escalating tensions in East Asia , and rearmament programs elsewhere . <p> Source : www.sipri.org <p> The SIPRI Top 100 companies saw production ramp up significantly in 2023 , reversing a decline experienced in 2022 . Nearly three-quarters of the companies on the list recorded year-on-year revenue growth , with the majority of these gains coming from firms in the lower half of the rankings . <p> " There was a marked rise in arms revenues in 2023 , and this is likely to continue in 2024 , " said Lorenzo Scarazzato , a SIPRI researcher . He added that the current revenue figures still do not fully reflect the scale of global demand , and the initiation of recruitment drives by many firms indicates optimism for continued growth . <p> The United States continued to dominate global arms sales , with its 41 companies in the Top 100 generating $317 billion in revenues , representing 50% of the total and a 2.5% increase from 2022 . The top five arms companies globally , including Lockheed Martin and RTX , are all based in the United States . <p> However , while 30 of the US firms recorded growth , Lockheed Martin and RTX saw declines in revenue due to supply chain disruptions , particularly in aeronautics and missile production . Dr. Nan Tian , Director of SIPRI 's Military Expenditure and Arms Production Programme , attributed the challenges to the complexity of multi-tiered supply chains , which left these larger firms vulnerable . <p> European companies in the Top 100 , excluding Russia , recorded $133 billion in combined revenues , an increase of just 0.2% compared to 2022 . This was the smallest regional growth worldwide . <p> Germany 's Rheinmetall , for example , expanded its production of 155-mm ammunition and increased revenue through Leopard tank deliveries and war-related " ring-exchange " programs . <p> Russian companies recorded one of the largest regional increases in arms revenues , with the two firms in the Top 100 seeing a 40% rise to $25.5 billion . Rostec , a state-owned holding company , reported a 49% revenue increase , driven by the production of combat aircraft , UAVs , and munitions as the war in Ukraine intensified . <p> Although official Russian data remains scarce , analysts widely agree that production expanded significantly in 2023 . <p> In Asia and Oceania , the 23 companies in the Top 100 saw their arms revenues grow by 5.7% year-on-year , reaching $136 billion . South Korea 's four companies recorded a combined revenue increase of 39% to $11 billion , while the five Japanese firms reported a 35% rise to $10 billion . <p> Japan 's military build-up since 2022 resulted in a surge of domestic orders , with some companies reporting new orders increasing by over 300% . South Korean firms are also expanding into global markets , particularly Europe , as demand linked to the Ukraine war grows . <p> The Middle East saw significant growth in arms revenues , with six companies in the Top 100 generating $19.6 billion in 2023 , an 18% increase . Israeli companies reached $13.6 billion in revenues , the highest ever recorded by Israeli firms in the SIPRI Top 100 . <p> Meanwhile , Turkish companies recorded a 24% increase , with revenues reaching $6 billion , bolstered by exports and government initiatives promoting self-reliance in arms production . <p> Other notable developments include a 0.7% increase in revenues for China 's nine companies in the Top 100 , the smallest growth since 2019 . Combined arms revenues for India 's three companies rose by 5.8% to $6.7 billion . <p> Taiwan 's NCSIST recorded a 27% increase in arms revenues , reaching $3.2 billion . T ? rkiye 's Baykar , a key producer of UAVs widely used in Ukraine , reported a 25% revenue increase to $1.9 billion , with exports accounting for 90% of its revenue . <p> In the United Kingdom , the Atomic Weapons Establishment reported the largest year-on-year percentage increase among UK firms in the Top 100 , with revenues rising 16% to $2.2 billion . <p> The SIPRI Arms Industry Database , established in 1989 , now includes data for companies from 2002 to 2023 , incorporating information on firms in China and Russia . Revenues in this dataset are based on military sales and services to domestic and international customers , expressed in constant 2023 US dollars . <p> This report is part of SIPRI 's lead-up to its flagship Yearbook , set to be published in 2025 . <p> Our monitoring team diligently searches the vast expanse of the web to carefully handpick and distill top-tier business and economic news stories and articles , presenting them to you in a concise and informative manner . 
@@118407661 <p> Syrian rebels advancing against government forces pushed close on Tuesday to the major city of Hama , rebels and a war monitor said , after their sudden capture of Aleppo last week rocked President Bashar al-Assad . <p> Rebels and the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights war monitor said insurgents had captured villages , including Maar Shahur , a few miles north of the city . Syrian state media said reinforcements were arriving in the area . <p> An attack on Hama would ramp up pressure on Assad , whose Russian and Iranian allies have scrambled to support him against a reviving rebellion . The city has remained in government hands since civil war erupted in 2011 . <p> Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araqchi said in an interview that Tehran would consider sending troops to Syria if Damascus asked , and Russian President Vladimir Putin urged an end to " terrorist aggression " in Syria , RIA reported . <p> Iraq Prime Minister Shia al-Sudani said Baghdad would not be " a mere spectator " in Syria and blamed Israeli military strikes on the Syrian government for the rebel advance , his office said . <p> Compounding Assad 's problems , fighters from a US-backed , Kurdish-led coalition battled government forces in the northeast , both sides said , opening a new front along a vital supply route . <p> Last week 's rebel seizure of Aleppo -- Syria 's largest city before the war -- marked the biggest offensive for years . <p> The front lines of the conflict have been frozen since 2020 after Assad clawed back most of the country from rebels , thanks to help from Russian air power and military help from Iran and its network of regional militia groups . <p> Now , however , Russia has been concentrating on the war in Ukraine , while Israeli strikes over the past three months have decimated the leadership of Hezbollah , the strongest Iran-backed force fighting in Syria . <p> On Monday , hundreds of Iran-backed Iraqi militia fighters entered Syria to back up Syrian government forces , Iraqi and Syrian sources said , but Hezbollah does not plan to send forces now . <p> A rebel source said Iran-backed militia fighters were among the forces they were battling outside Hama . <p> In recent days , Russian and Syrian government warplanes have intensified airstrikes against rebels , both sides have said . Rescue workers have reported deadly strikes on hospitals in Aleppo and Idlib . <h> Jockeying for territory <p> Any sustained escalation in Syria risks further destabilising a region already alight from conflicts in Gaza and Lebanon , where a truce between Israel and the Hezbollah group took effect last week . <p> The retreat by Assad 's forces over the past several days has led to jockeying for control among other groups that control pockets in the northwest , north and east . <p> The Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) , an umbrella group which controls territory in Syria 's east with US support , said early today that its Deir al-Zor Military Council had " become responsible for protecting " seven villages previously held by the Syrian army . <p> The Deir al-Zor Military Council comprises local Arab fighters under the SDF , an alliance mainly led by a Kurdish militia , the YPG . <p> Syrian state media reported that the army and allied forces were repelling an SDF assault on the villages , the only Syrian government presence along the east bank of the Euphrates River , an area otherwise mostly held by the SDF . <p> A Syrian military officer said the SDF push was aimed at exploiting government forces ' weakness after the rebel advance , and said the army and allied Iran-backed militia groups were sending reinforcements . <p> The US military , which has a small number of troops based at a gas field in the area , carried out at least one strike in self-defence overnight , a US official said , adding it was not related to the ongoing rebel advances . <h> Crowded battlefield <p> The battlefield is crowded in northern Syria , with the US , Russia , Iran and Turkiye all involved in the renewed fighting , underscoring the messy global politics at play . <p> On Monday , Iran said there would be a foreign ministers meeting with Turkiye and Russia in Doha next weekend as part of a diplomatic process that had earlier been used to stabilise borders . <p> The SDF was the main Western-backed ground force in eastern Syria fighting the Islamic State , which ran a jihadist mini-state there from 2014-17 . Turkey says the SDF 's main fighting force , the YPG , are Kurdish separatists it regards as terrorists and sent troops across the frontier in 2017 to push them back . <p> Rebel advances in recent days have dislodged the YPG from areas in and near Aleppo , including Aleppo 's Sheikh Maqsoud district and a corridor around Tel Refaat to the north . <p> The SDF presence in northeast Syria along much of the border with Iraq also complicates supply lines for Iran-backed regional militia groups supporting Assad . <p> On Monday , Reuters reported that hundreds of Iran-backed Iraqi fighters had crossed the border into Syria to help government forces . <p> Israel has regularly struck Iran-backed forces in Syria . Hezbollah said an Israeli strike near Damascus today killed one of its senior officers liaising with the Syrian military . Israel 's military said it does not comment on reports in foreign media . 
@@118407669 <p> Women are unstoppable , and the BBC 100 Women 2024 list proves just that . <p> The British publication 's list features 100 inspiring and influential women from around the world and " acknowledges the toll this year has taken on women by celebrating those who -- through their resilience -- are pushing for change , as the world changes around them . " <p> This year , two women from Pakistan were mentioned on the list -- Baloch rights activist Mahrang Baloch and singer Hadiqa Kiani . <p> Here are some of the most remarkable women named in the list , and their contributions and acts of resilience . <h> Mahrang Baloch ( Pakistan ) <p> Mahrang Baloch is the face of peaceful protests against the enforced disappearances in Balochistan . According to the BBC , " in late 2023 , Baloch led hundreds of women on a 1,600-kilometre march to the capital Islamabad to demand information on the whereabouts of their family members . She was arrested twice during the journey . " <p> " She urged the public to assist displaced families and last year , the project announced it had built 370 homes and other facilities in the affected areas . " <h> Plestia Alaqad ( Palestine ) <p> Twenty-two-year-old Palestinian journalist Plestia Alaqad " had recently graduated from university when the war in Gaza began . In the earliest days of the war , she posted a video of herself in her apartment during intense Israeli airstrikes . <p> " It went viral , and she amassed four million followers on Instagram with subsequent Gaza updates , poems and diary entries . Her memoir based on these reports , Eyes of Gaza , will be published soon . " <h> Shireen Abed ( Palestine ) <p> Palestine-based paediatrician Shireen Abed continued to care for babies in displacement camps even after she herself was displaced when her flat was bombed during Israeli aggression on the Gaza Strip in 2023 . <p> " Drawing on years of experience in neonatal units at Gaza 's main hospitals -- most recently as director of the maternity centre in Al-Shifa Medical Complex -- she established emergency protocols to enable medics to provide life-saving treatments with very limited resources , and trained other doctors . " <p> Conditions in Gaza forced her to leave the area with her two daughters , however , Abed continues to remotely assist doctors on-ground . <h> Enas Al-Ghoul ( Palestine ) <p> When water became a scarce resource in Gaza because of Israel 's relentless assault , Palestinian agricultural engineer Enas Al-Ghoul was on the frontlines of devising a solution . <p> She used recycled materials such as wood , glass and tarpaulins to create a solar-powered desalination device which turned seawater into drinkable water . <p> " The device has since become a lifeline for many living in tents in the Khan Younis area in the south of the Gaza Strip , as water and sanitation facilities have been damaged or destroyed by Israeli military action since October 2023 . <p> " Determined to use her skills to help displaced Palestinians , Al-Ghoul has also created a solar-powered cooker and learnt to recycle materials to create items such as mattresses and bags . " <h> Hamida Aman ( Afghanistan ) <p> Media entrepreneur Hamida Aman launched the Begum Academy , an online space with free multimedia courses for students who ca n't attend school , after the Taliban regime in Afghanistan barred girls from receiving an education . <p> " In the last year , the educational platform has provided more than 8,500 videos in Dari and Pashto , covering school curricula for grades seven to 12 . In March , Aman launched Begum TV , an educational channel broadcasting Begum Academy courses via satellite . " <h> Christina Assi ( Lebanon ) <p> In October 2023 , Lebanese photojournalist Christina Assi was severely injured in an Israeli strike in southern Lebanon while reporting . " The blast killed fellow journalist Issam Abdallah , five other colleagues were wounded and Assi would later have a leg amputated . " <p> The traumatic experience led to Assi campaigning for journalists ' safety , and she dedicated her participation in the 2024 Olympic torch relay in Paris to all the journalists who have died in the line of duty . <h> Hinda Abdi Mohamoud ( Somalia ) <p> Somalian journalist Hinda Abdi Mahamoud is the chief editor of Bilan , the country 's first and only all-women media team . <p> " The team was formed to combat the high rates of sexism and harassment which Somali women face in the workplace -- challenges recognised in a recent UN report . <p> " Bilan aims to shine a light on social issues in one of the most dangerous countries in the world for journalists , covering stories such as Somalis living in hiding with HIV , abused orphans , and people with albinism shunned by their communities . " <h> Shahrnush Parsipur ( Iran/US ) <p> Prominent Iranian novelist Shahrnush Parsipur has written about taboo issues in her work , such as women 's sexual oppression and rebellion in a patriarchal society . <p> She resigned from her position as a writer and producer on the Iranian National Television and Radio following the execution of two poet activists before the revolution of 1979 . This led to her first imprisonment . <p> " Since the revolution , her work has been banned extensively in Iran and Parsipur was imprisoned again for openly referring to issues around virginity in her novel Women Without Men . This was later adapted into a feature film outside Iran . <p> " Parsipur has recounted her experience of incarceration in her writing , and has lived in exile in the US since 1994 . " <h> Pooja Sharma ( India ) <p> Pooja Sharma , a funerary rites performer from India , has performed the last rites for unclaimed dead bodies in Delhi . <p> Her own brother was killed and nobody helped with his funeral , causing Sharma to perform his last rites . Throughout her journey , she faced resistance from Hindu priests because performers of funerary rites are typically men in the religion . <p> " Despite the backlash , she has performed funerary rites for more than 4,000 people from different faiths and religions , sharing her work on social media and championing the cause to give everyone the dignity they deserve in death . " <h> Zakia Khudadadi ( Afghanistan ) <p> Afghan athlete Zakia Khudadadi made history at the 2024 Paris Paralympics after winning the first ever medal for the refugee team . <p> " The athlete , who was born without one forearm , began practising taekwondo secretly at the age of 11 in a hidden gym in her hometown of Herat , in western Afghanistan . She was initially denied the opportunity to compete at her first Paralympics in Tokyo following the Taliban 's return to power in 2021 . " <p> However , the International Paralympic Committee intervened and Khudadadi was evacuated from Afghanistan and became the first Afghan woman to participate in an international sporting event following the Taliban takeover . <h> Firda Marsya Kurnia ( Indonesia ) <p> Firda Marsya Kurnia is the lead vocalist and guitarist in the Indonesia-based all-women , hijab-wearing heavy metal band Voice of Baceprot . <p> " Singing in English and Sundanese , one of the most widely spoken languages in Indonesia , the trio 's lyrics express their frustrations with patriarchy . <p> " There has been pushback from more conservative Muslims , who did not respond well when the band ventured into heavy metal . But the band have come a long way since they started 10 years ago at their village school in Garut , West Java . This year they performed at Glastonbury , the first Indonesian band in the music festival 's 54-year history . " <h> Vinesh Phogat ( India ) <p> Vinesh Phogat , a three-time Olympian and one of India 's most decorated wrestlers and critic of sexist attitudes towards women in sports , was disqualified at the Paris Games after failing the weigh-in . <p> " Outspoken about gender stereotypes , Phogat was the face of a months-long protest by Indian wrestlers against their federation chief , Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh , who was accused of sexually harassing female athletes -- a charge he denied . <p> " The protest made headlines when police detained Phogat and others during a demonstration . " <h> Nadia Murad ( Iraq ) <p> A leading Iraqi activist for survivors of sexual violence , human rights activist Nadia Murad endured the Yazidi genocide in Iraq in 2014 and in 2018 received the Nobel Peace Prize for her efforts to end sexual violence as a weapon of war . <p> She was captured by " militants , forced into slavery , and subjected to rape and abuse . Murad escaped after three months , and has recounted her ordeal to the world to raise awareness about conflict-related sexual violence . <p> " She partnered with human rights lawyer Amal Clooney to hold the Islamic State accountable and launched Nadia 's Initiative to help rebuild communities and advocate for reparations for survivors . " <h> Gisele Pelicot ( France ) <p> A global symbol of resilience , Gisele Pelicot waived the right to anonymity and permitted her story to reach the world after her former husband admitted to drugging and raping her while they were married , and recruiting other men to rape her as well . <p> " By law , Pelicot was entitled to anonymity , but she instead asked for the trial to be open and for the videos to be shown , in a bid to shift the ' shame ' back on to the accused . Some of the 50 other men involved in the case have admitted rape , but the majority say they only took part in sexual acts . <p> " While the trial reaches its final stage , women across the world have been inspired by the French grandmother , who hopes her case will change French law and attitudes around rape and consent . " <h> Fawzia al-Otaibi ( Saudi Arabia/UK ) <p> Women 's rights campaigner Fawzia al-Otaibi has campaigned for the end of the male guardianship system in Saudi Arabia and recently taken her campaign to social media . <p> " But after being summoned by the authorities for questioning , she decided to flee the country . Her sister Manahel al-Otaibi -- also a women 's rights campaigner -- was arrested and sentenced to 11 years in prison earlier this year , after being convicted of charges related to her clothing choices and the views she had expressed online , according to human rights groups . Her older sister , Maryam , has also been banned from travelling . " <p> Al-Otaibi has campaigned relentlessly for her sister 's release . A recent crackdown on dissent has seen many imprisoned in Saudi Arabia for social media posts . <h> Comments <p> 1000 Characters <p> Dr. Salaria , Aamir AhmadDec 03 , 2024 03:23pm <p> Welcome to the esteemed club and the great clubhouse . As always , keep it up and hang on tough . 
@@118407819 <p> EDITORIAL : US President-elect Donald Trump wrote on Truth Social , his social media platform , that if BRICS countries ( Brazil , Russia , India , China and South Africa ) do not use the dollar as their reserve currency the United States would impose 100 percent tariffs . <p> BRICS has granted full membership to four countries - Iran , Egypt , Ethiopia , and the United Arab Emirates - while Saudi Arabia has not yet responded to an invite to become a full member . <p> During the recent BRICS summit meeting in Kazan 13 countries were invited to participate as partner countries though no membership invitations were extended . The list of those seeking membership is reportedly close to 40 , including Pakistan . <p> Be that as it may , the transactional dominance of the dollar remains with around 88 percent share , record high , in trade invoicing , cross border liabilities and foreign currency debt issuance ; while the dollar 's share in SWIFT ( Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunications ) is at 43 percent ( Euro 's at 32 percent with the Eurozone countries toeing the US foreign policy line especially with respect to imposing sanctions ) , which gives the US powers to monitor and stop all payments . <p> Trump known for making standalone statements has clearly not considered three prevailing factors : ( i ) the US share of global Gross Domestic Product has been steadily declining - from 45 percent after World War II to 25 percent today - a decline attributable to globalisation with US manufacturing shifting to countries where cheaper inputs were available and the consequent rise of China ; ( ii ) Yuefen Li , Economist and Special Adviser on South-South Cooperation and Development Finance , South Centre , Geneva , writing for the International Banker argues that the " the supremacy of the dollar gives rise to global demand for it as a safe asset for foreign reserves and investments . <p> This exorbitant advantage allows the US to import foreign goods and services more often than not at a low rate when compared to the sizeable excess in return on US-backed capital exported back to the rest of the world , including interest income , portfolio equity positions and other capital exports in dollars ; " and Li cites a study by Gourinchas and Rey that concluded that " US foreign liabilities are almost entirely in dollars , with 70 percent US foreign assets in foreign currencies implying thereby that a 10 percent dollar depreciation represents a transfer of around 5.9 percent of US GDP from the rest of the world to the US ; and ( iii ) the weaponization of the dollar by imposing sanctions ; or the increasing use of the policy to achieve foreign policy aims through economic sanctions . On 25th April this year , the US Congress passed a law titled ' Rebuilding Economic Prosperity and Opportunity ( REPO ) for Ukrainians Act ' , allowing the US to confiscate Russian sovereign assets under US jurisdiction to support Ukraine 's war effort -- a move that no doubt strengthened Russia 's resolve towards de-dollarisation . <p> The bulk of the Russia 's sovereign assets were held in Europe , who shied away from appropriating these assets , but agreed under US pressure , to appropriate the interest due on these assets and advance that as a loan to Ukraine . <p> There is also increasing evidence that a BRICS corridor has been formed that allows China , with its fast growing economy likely to overtake the US economy in another decade or so , access to Iranian oil , another sanctioned country . <p> It is obvious that Trump needs to understand and accept the fact that the foreign policy of the Middle Eastern allies has changed dramatically since four years ago with the ongoing Israeli genocide in Gaza , the balance of military might no longer giving Israel escalation dominance ( reflected by its failure to declare a conclusive victory ) and the Chinese brokered truce between Saudi Arabia and Iran , which reportedly led to Saudi Arabia refusing to allow use of their airspace by Israel to attack Iran . <p> Sanctions or using air power to bomb any sovereign nation to oblivion is no longer a serious threat as traditional rivals have developed mitigating strategies to counter these threats . 
@@118407865 <p> RIYADH : President Emmanuel Macron and Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman signed a strategic partnership on Monday aimed at deepening bilateral ties and de-escalating conflict in the Middle East , including Lebanon , where the two leaders called for presidential elections . <p> The French leader arrived in Saudi Arabia on Monday for a three-day state visit just as a political crisis threatens to topple the French government . After a meeting with Prince Mohammed , the de facto ruler of the oil-rich Gulf kingdom , Macron 's office announced the signing of a new partnership aimed at improving cooperation in " defence , energy transition , culture , mobility between the two countries " . <p> The two leaders also " agreed to make every effort to contribute to de-escalation in the region " , including helping to consolidate the fragile ceasefire between Israel and Lebanon . <p> " Together , they called for the holding of presidential elections in Lebanon with the aim of bringing the Lebanese people together and carrying out the reforms necessary for the stability and security of the country , " the statement from Macron 's office said . <p> Macron touched down in the Saudi capital Riyadh in the afternoon , where he was greeted by an honour guard of sword-holding servicemen and celebratory cannon fire as he disembarked from his plane . <p> He did not comment on the political situation in France as he arrived . <p> Macron 's visit began as France 's less than three-month-old minority government faced the prospect of being forced out by a vote of no confidence in the coming days . <p> The far-right National Rally party said it would vote to oust Michel Barnier 's government after the prime minister used an executive tool to push through a social security budget bill without parliamentary approval . <p> The left wing is also expected to back the motion , which could be held as early as Wednesday . If successful , it would oust the government that was appointed in September after snap polls . <p> Macron 's three-day stay also coincides with a flare-up of violence in Syria , where anti-government rebels have seized Aleppo , the country 's second-largest city . <p> The fighting in Syria follows France 's brokering of a ceasefire in neighbouring Lebanon , where Israel has been fighting Iran proxy Hezbollah . <p> Macron 's state visit is the first by a French president to Saudi Arabia since Jacques Chirac in 2006 , cementing what the presidency calls a " very close relationship " . <p> In 2021 , Macron became one of the first Western leaders to meet Prince Mohammed in Saudi Arabia after the 2018 murder of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi at Riyadh 's consulate in Istanbul . <p> The French president and Prince Mohammed will see how they " work together " on the conflicts shaking the region , with Lebanon at the " heart of the discussions " , the French presidency said in an earlier statement . <p> Macron is hoping for Saudi support for the Lebanese army , which is being deployed towards the border with Israel under the ceasefire but is poorly armed and trained . <p> He will also try to win Saudi help to reverse the political disintegration that has plunged Lebanon 's government and economy into catastrophe . <p> Paris and Riyadh are also calling for a ceasefire in the Gaza war and a " political outcome " based on the two-state solution of separate Israeli and Palestinian states . <p> Saudi Arabia , home to the holiest sites in Islam , has paused discussions with Washington on potentially recognising Israel in return for deeper security and bilateral ties with the United States . <p> In September , the crown prince hardened his position , insisting that Saudi Arabia would not establish ties with Israel before the creation of a Palestinian state . <p> Macron is accompanied by about 50 senior officials from major French companies including TotalEnergies , EDF and Veolia , as well as start-ups in artificial intelligence and quantum physics . 
@@118407883 <p> People admire the Parthenon Marbles inside the Parthenon Galleries in the British Museum . The marbles are also known as Elgin Marbles , with sculptures are artifacts of the frieze and the East Pediment from the Parthenon in the Acropolis of Athens . The marbles are displayed to visitors in the British Museum . The Greek government is in dispute with the British government and the museum , demanding the return of the marbles . London , United Kingdom . Photo : AFP <p> Follow us <p> LONDON : As the prime ministers of Britain and Greece meet in London on Tuesday for an agenda expected to include the Parthenon Marbles , talks with the British Museum are said to be closer than ever to an agreement for their return to Athens . <p> On his first visit to Britain since Keir Starmer 's Labour government came to power in July , Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis says he 's " firmly convinced " that the priceless sculptures will return to Athens more than two centuries after their departure for London . <p> " I am firmly convinced that the friezes will be returned . Discussions with the British Museum are continuing , " Mitsotakis told ANT1 TV on Saturday . <p> But he stressed that the talks in search of a solution to a historical dispute that has poisoned bilateral relations for over 50 years " do not concern the British government , but the British Museum " . <p> UK officials say that the government 's position on the Marbles has not changed and that they remain a matter for the British Museum . <p> A spokesman for Starmer said the prime minister " looks forward to welcoming Mitsotakis to Downing Street , " where he 'll underline the importance of a strong UK-Greece bilateral relationship . <p> " He will discuss recent joint work on tackling the shared challenge of illegal migration and other priorities , including support for Ukraine , ( and ) a ceasefire in Gaza for regional stability in the Middle East , " the spokesman told reporters . <p> ' Private meetings ' - <p> Britain 's Sky News on Monday reported that Mitsotakis and his foreign minister George Gerapetritis had held " private meetings " with British Museum officials , including museum chairman George Osborne , on " two or three occasions " this year . <p> Mitsotakis ' spokesman later in the day denied that the Greek leader had taken part in private meetings , but said the issue would " obviously " come up in the meeting with Starmer . <p> According to British media , Starmer is much more open to the return of the ancient masterpieces to Athens than his predecessor , Rishi Sunak . <p> The latter had dealt a diplomatic slap in the face to Mitsotakis a year ago by cancelling a planned meeting between them at the last minute . <p> The move came after Mitsotakis made comments that apparently upset Downing Street . The Greek , an ardent campaigner for the return of the Marbles , had told the BBC ahead the Sunak meeting that keeping part of the Parthenon friezes outside Greece was tantamount to " cut(ting) the Mona Lisa in half " . <p> Starmer , then head of the opposition , later told the House of Commons that Sunak had " obviously lost his marbles " in cancelling the meeting with Mitsotakis . <p> Athens has for decades demanded the return of the 75-metre-long friezes , a campaign revived in the 1980s by Greek singer and actress Melina Mercouri during her stint as minister for culture . <p> The Greek authorities maintain that the sculptures were looted in 1802 by Lord Elgin , British ambassador to the Ottoman Empire . <p> But London claims that the sculptures were " legally acquired " by Elgin , who sold them to the British Museum . <p> In the UK , where according to a YouGov poll in 2023 , a majority of Britons are in favour of restitution , opponents fear a domino effect , with claims from several countries piling up . <p> A UNESCO World Heritage site , the Parthenon atop the Acropolis in Athens is a temple built in the 5th century BCE in homage to the goddess Athena . <p> In the course of its long history , it has been transformed into a church , a mosque and a munitions depot under the Ottoman Empire . <p> The new Acropolis Museum , inaugurated in 2009 , has reserved a space for the Parthenon friezes on the first floor of the building , where the four sides of the temple have been faithfully recreated to scale . <p> The missing friezes have been replaced by casts . <p> The Acropolis is the most visited archaeological site in Greece . Its popularity with tourists has soared in recent years to the extent that Greek authorities have had to introduce reservation slots to contain summer crowds . <p> In 2023 , almost four million people visited the site known to most Greeks as the Sacred Rock , up 31.1 percent year-on-year . <p> From January to the end of July , compared with the same period in 2023 , the increase was 25.9 percent , or 2.8 million visitors . <p> Founded in 1753 , the British Museum houses a collection of eight million objects , including the Rosetta Stone and the Parthenon friezes. 
@@118407913 <h> British premier highlights importance of US , European relations for UK security <p> UK Prime Minister Keir Starmer highlighted the critical significance of closer relations with the US and renewed European ties for Britain 's national security . <p> Speaking at the historic Lord Mayor 's Banquet in London , Starmer stressed the importance of transatlantic partnerships . <p> " The idea that we must choose between our allies , that somehow , we 're with either America or Europe , is plain wrong . I reject it utterly , " he said , underlining the UK 's " national interest " demands to work with both . <p> Emphasizing the strategic nature of US relations , he noted that the connection was not about sentimentality but " hard-headed realism . " <p> " Our relationship with the US has been the cornerstone of our security and our prosperity for over a century , " he added . <p> Addressing European relations , Starmer pledged to rebuild connections and reiterated continued support for Ukraine amid its ongoing conflict with Russia . <p> He underscored the necessity of strengthening alliances in these " dangerous times " and emphasized that closer US relations , an unwavering commitment to NATO , and renewed ties with European neighbors are vital for Britain 's growth and security . <p> The prime minister also expressed the UK 's commitment to maintaining peace in Lebanon and called for ending the conflict in Gaza , advocating for increased humanitarian aid to civilians in conflict zones . <p> Regarding Syria , Starmer urged all parties to work towards a political solution and cease hostilities . 
@@118407915 <h> UN chief says situation in Gaza ' appalling and apocalyptic ' <p> Cairo - The United Nations chief said Monday the situation in war-torn Gaza was " appalling and apocalyptic " , warning conditions faced by Palestinians in the territory may amount to the " gravest international crimes " . In remarks read out on his behalf at a Cairo conference aimed at increasing humanitarian aid , UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres urged the international community to " build a foundation for sustainable peace in Gaza and across the Middle East " . The war in Gaza broke out when Palestinian group Hamas attacked southern Israel on October 7 , 2023 , resulting in 1,208 deaths , mostly civilians , according to an AFP tally of Israeli official figures . Israel 's retaliatory campaign has killed 44,429 people in Gaza , according to figures from the territory 's health ministry that the UN considers reliable . Guterres highlighted the devastating toll of the conflict and the urgent need for international action . " Malnutrition is rampant ... Famine is imminent . <p> Meanwhile , the health system has collapsed , " he said . The UN chief added that Gaza now has " the highest number of children amputees per capita anywhere in the world " , with " many losing limbs and undergoing surgeries without even anesthesia " . <p> The secretary-general also criticised the severe restrictions on aid delivery , calling the current levels " grossly insufficient " . <p> According to UNRWA 's count , only 65 aid trucks per day had been able to enter Gaza this past month , compared to a pre-war average of 500 . <p> International aid organisations have repeatedly raised alarm over the deteriorating conditions in Gaza , warning that civilians are on the brink of famine . <p> They have said aid shipments reaching the enclave are now at their lowest since the start of the war . 
@@118407918 <p> US President-elect Donald Trump on Monday issued a stern warning of severe consequences in the Middle East if the hostages being held by Hamas are not freed by his inauguration just weeks away . <p> " Everybody is talking about the hostages who are being held so violently , inhumanely , and against the will of the entire World , in the Middle East - But it 's all talk , and no action ! " said Trump on his social media platform Truth Social . <p> " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " said Trump . <p> " Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America . RELEASE THE HOSTAGES NOW ! " he added . <p> Israel estimates that there are currently 101 Israeli prisoners still being held in Gaza . This figure comes nearly 14 months into a war in which Israel has killed over 44,000 people and injured 105,000 more , mostly women and children , leaving the Gaza Strip a wasteland . <p> Activists in Israel have urged Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to agree to a cease-fire deal and a swap of hostages and prisoners , but complain that instead he has deliberately obstructed any possible deal . Many charge that he wants to prolong the war for his political survival , holding his own interests above those of the country . <p> Palestinian group Hamas said on Monday that 33 Israeli hostages held in Gaza have been killed , mostly due to Israeli airstrikes since Oct. 7 , 2023 . <p> In a video posted on Telegram , the resistance group said : " 33 Israeli prisoners were killed , and some of their whereabouts remain unknown because of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's actions and obstinacy . " <p> The group warned that continued Israeli aggression would increase the death toll among Israeli hostages . <p> Trump is set to be inaugurated on Jan. 20 . <p> Netanyahu , the architect of Israel 's ongoing 14-month onslaught on Gaza , was said to favor Trump 's election to the White House this fall . <p> During his first term as president , before he was succeeded by current President Joe Biden , Trump took steps such as moving the US Embassy in Israel to Jerusalem , angering Palestinians , who see occupied east Jerusalem as the capital of a future Palestinian state . 
@@118407926 <h> It is clear whenever there is conflict , these private capitalist companies , business tycoons , and corrupt and hawkish politicians earn profits . <p> The slogan ' War is Peace ' from George Orwell 's book 1984 captures the nature of the weapons industry mafia , which always thrives on wars and conflicts . Although the slogan talks about the totalitarian regime , in the modern day it best describes the independent democracies having traits of warmongers . Hundreds and thousands of innocent , blameless civilians die in the wars they do n't wish . The ultimate benefit of these wars is in the hands of the private weapons industries and capitalist mafia . Capitalist societies openly encourage manufacturers of lethal weapons to produce vast quantities of armaments . Moreover , this weapons industry does not care about any alliance , the only objective of these manufacturers is to print money and gain maximum profit . <p> Whether it is about Israel 's genocide in Gaza , the Russian aggression in Ukraine , or the Sudanese Civil War , non-combatant civilians are killed on both sides who do not have to do anything with war . Just in the past three years , the above-mentioned conflicts combined have killed more than 117,000 people , mostly children and women . Directly or indirectly , the civilian population falls prime prey to these conflicts . Furthermore , all this happens in the presence of the agents of human rights . The failure of international organizations to mediate and prevent wars is evident . <p> According to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute -- ( SIPRI ) , and the Defense News , the top five arms-producing and military services companies are from the USA . Raytheon Technologies , Northrop Grumman Corp. , Boeing , and General Dynamics Corp .. Lockheed Martin is in the leading position . It is the same company that makes F-35 fighter jets for Israel . Not to mention , fifty-one out of one hundred are US-based companies . The scenario for the permanent United Nations Security Council members is startling . The top five arms-exporting countries are the USA , Russia , China , France , and Germany , while the United Kingdom ranks seventh . Four of the countries mentioned above are permanent members of the UN Security Council . Combining UNSC members , they constitute up to 75% of global arms exports . How can the UN Security Council adopt an abrupt resolution on armaments when all these countries are the accomplices and pivotal players with veto power ? <p> According to a Reuters report published by Mike Stone , an arms industry correspondent , the sale of US military equipment to foreign nations was $205.6 billion in 2022 , a record-breaking number . Since then , it has been growing . $200 billion worth of arms were exported in just one year by one nation . Moreover , in a report published by Reuters on June 13 , 2023 , Israel , too , sold record-breaking armaments of $12.5 billion , and a stupefying 24% of its imports were from the Arab nations . When discussing geopolitics and international alliances , we consider Russia and China on one side while the UK , the USA , France , and Israel on the other . However , regarding the export of weapons , both opposing blocs are aligned . <p> Governments all over the world buy these weapons either from their private capitalist companies or foreign companies while investing the money of ordinary taxpayers in shady business . Imagine this chunk of money spent on healthcare , education , infrastructure , or tourism . Ultimately , these weapons are used in wars , and innocent civilians lose their lives . Why do these five UNSC permanent member countries not decide to come up with a resolution and form a policy to stop the surge of weapons to limit the capitalist companies from extreme profits ? The weapons industry does not only sell guns , but they rent their private armies , whom they call " mercenaries , " to fight in foreign countries . Notable examples are The Wagner Group , POTOK , Don Brigade , Moran Security Group , and Slavonic Corps . These private militias are mostly employed in poor countries in exchange for some money . <p> The USA spent approximately $300 billion on 12 mercenaries groups from 1994 to 2007 . One of the notorious private companies is Blackwater , founded by the former US Navy SEAL Eric Prince . It hires mercenaries from various countries to provide horrifying services in exchange for money . Blackwater gained notoriety in the year 2007 when it killed 17 innocent Iraqi civilians . In Donald Trump 's then presidency , these jailed contractors were pardoned . The business model works easily for these politicians , as Erik Prince was the key donator of the Republican candidate Donald Trump in the 2018 presidential elections . Blackwater was awarded $800 million contracts . Politicians ask for donations in favor of contracts when elected . The Guardian report , published in June 2010 , that the Obama administration , too , had awarded $220 million contracts to Blackwater in exchange for security inside Afghanistan . The reason behind asking for the security of private mercenaries is that these mercenaries do not need pensions , healthcare , and security services . In contrast , their army does . These mercenaries are often not even regarded as casualties in conflicts . A WSJ report published in 2021 states , that when the Taliban took over Afghanistan , Erik Prince of Blackwater was charging $6.5K to get people out of Afghanistan . <p> During the Iraq War , US President George Bush 's father , George H. W. Bush , was a board member of the Carlyle Group . It was the same group that obtained all the defense contracts in the Iraq War . Moreover , then US Vice President Dick Cheney had been head of a company named Halliburton that acquired $7 billion of defense contracts without bidding . It was the same company that received contracts for Iraqi oil restoration . In December 2021 , Business Insider published a report that highlighted at least fifteen politicians and lawmakers who have invested in the US defense policy . <p> It is clear whenever there is conflict , these private capitalist companies , business tycoons , and corrupt and hawkish politicians earn profits . Politicians benefit while shifting the public 's focus away from critical issues like employment , education , and healthcare . As George Orwell emphasizes in his book 1984 , the slogan ' War is Peace ' is a notion designed to perpetuate conflict , primarily to maximize profits and to consolidate and maintain power , rather than to achieve victory . 
@@118407944 <h> JI foreign affairs director meets Hamas leader <p> LAHORE - The Director of Foreign Affairs for Jamaat-e-Islami Pakistan , Asif Luqman Qazi , met with Hamas leader Khaled Mashal in Doha , Qatar , according to a press release issued by JI 's media cell . During the meeting , Khaled Mashal expressed gratitude to the people of Pakistan for their support of the Palestinian people . He stated , <p> " The people of Gaza look to Pakistan with hope . After God , the support of the Ummah is our greatest asset . Despite challenges and hardships , our struggle must continue . The resilience of the people of Gaza remains a source of astonishment for Israel . " He also highlighted the historic ties between Hamas and Jamaat-e-Islami Pakistan . Asif Luqman Qazi conveyed a message from the Emir of Jamaat-e-Islami , Hafiz Naeem-ur-Rehman . In his remarks , he said . " The liberation of Al-Quds is a shared goal for every Muslim . Jamaat-e-Islami Pakistan stands shoulder to shoulder with the Palestinian people . The people of Pakistan will never abandon their Palestinian brothers . " 
@@118408131 <p> In his remarks at the Meeting of ECO Council of Ministers in Iranian city of Mashhad today , he said this approach will help create mutual interdependencies for sustainable growth , while allowing the member states to devise better strategy for efficient use of energy resources . <p> Ishaq Dar said greater economic cooperation among the ECO nations will bring peace and stability in the region . <p> He said Pakistan is upgrading its rail and road infrastructure to facilitate further smooth flow of goods with the neighboring countries and beyond . <p> The Deputy Prime Minister said ECO 's specialized agencies and regional institutions can play a critical role in advancement of the objectives and ideals of the organization through greater engagements and people to people contacts . <p> Condemning the Israeli genocide in Gaza and its aggression in Lebanon and Syria , Ishaq Dar expressed his concerns over the escalating hostilities in in the Middle East , wherein Israel has endangered regional peace and security . <p> He reiterated Pakistan 's call to uphold peace and security in this region , safeguard Lebanon and Syria 's sovereignty and put an end to the ongoing humanitarian crisis in Palestine . 
@@118426987 <h> Trump said that if the captives in Gaza are not released before his inauguration , " hell to pay . " <p> According to AFP , US President-elect Donald Trump has threatened to impose severe consequences on Palestinian fighters in Gaza if hostages are not freed by the time he assumes office . <p> He added on his Truth Social platform , " There will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , if the hostages are not released before January 20 , 2025 , the date I proudly assume Office as President of the United States . " <h> PKKH ( Pakistan Ka Khuda Hafiz ) is a respected Pakistani news website offering accurate and comprehensive coverage of politics , culture , and global affairs . With a commitment to objective reporting and insightful analysis , PKKH provides readers with a well-rounded perspective on current events . The platform encourages community engagement and leverages digital technology to reach a wide audience , contributing to informed discussions and awareness . 
@@118426989 <h> Iraqi militias will " reinforce " forces loyal to Assad . <h> AMMAN : To assist Damascus in retaking Aleppo from anti-government militants who took control of the city last week , hundreds of Iraqi militia members entered Syria on Sunday night . <p> According to two Iraqi security officials , more than 300 fighters , mostly from the Badr and Nujabaa groups , crossed the border late on Sunday using a muddy road instead of the official one . <p> According to a senior Syrian military source , the fighters had crossed in small groups to avoid airstrikes . " These are new reinforcements being sent to help our comrades on the front lines in the north , " the source added . <p> Speaking about the local militia organizations Tehran supports , Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araqchi stated on Monday that while Syria 's military was capable of facing its adversaries , " resistance groups will help and Iran will provide any support needed . " <p> Russian aircraft bomb anti-Damascus fighter positions <p> Russian and Syrian military aircraft stepped up their operations on Monday in areas controlled by members of the Hayat Tahrir Al Sham ( HTS ) organization in the northwest , including a raid on a camp for displaced people that killed seven people . <p> Many people in the area were unprepared for HTS 's lightning strike last Thursday , which dealt President Assad his worst blow in years and rekindled a fight that had seemed to be at a standstill for years when civil war front lines stabilized in 2020 . Russia still maintains an air station in northern Syria , despite its attention being drawn to the conflict in Ukraine since 2022 . <p> Assad 's " offer " from the USAccording to people acquainted with the situation , the United States and the United Arab Emirates have talked about trying to entice Bashar Al Assad to break with Iran by promising to remove sanctions if he shuts down " weapons routes to Hezbollah " in Lebanon . <p> According to the sources , the talks happened before to last week 's HTS march on Aleppo . <p> A uprising against Assad 's authority sparked the Syrian War in 2011 , and the HTS and its allies controlled a large portion of Aleppo from 2012 until 2016 , when Syrian troops retook it with assistance from militias backed by Russia and Iran . This was a significant turning point in the war . <p> With millions of Syrians already displaced and conflicting factions in the region supported by regional and international powers , any further escalation in Syria runs the risk of further destabilizing an already unstable region already riven by the wars in Gaza and Lebanon . <p> Both mainstream organizations supported by Turkey and Hayat Tahrir Al Sham , a former Al Qaeda member , are part of the anti-Assad forces . Along its border , Turkey maintains a military presence in a portion of Syria . <p> Northeastern land is held by Kurdish-led forces that Ankara labels terrorists but that , with US assistance , fought the extremist Islamic State organization . <p> During their Monday meeting , the foreign ministers of Iran and Turkey talked about the conflict in Syria . Turkish outside Minister Hakan Fidan urged the Syrian opposition to reach a compromise , stating that outside interference could not account for the HTS advancements . <p> AirstrikesAccording to Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov , Russia , whose 2015 intervention in the fight tipped the military scales in favor of Assad , is still backing the Syrian president and is keeping an eye on the situation on the ground . According to Russian war bloggers , Moscow fired the general commanding its troops in Syria on Sunday . <p> Syrian and Russian air forces were hitting anti-government fighter camps in the countryside east of Aleppo city , Damascus said . <p> Seven people , including five children , were killed when jets struck residential parts of Aleppo city and a camp for displaced people in Idlib province , according to the White Helmets rescue organization and inhabitants of rebel-held areas in the north . <p> Along the front line north of Hama , a city that sits between Aleppo and the capital Damascus , the government said the military was attempting to secure a series of towns that it retook on Sunday . <p> In Turkiye , Syrian opposition leader Hadi Al Bahra said the HTS and its allies were trying to force the Syrian government to accept a political transition . " We are ready to start negotiating tomorrow , " Bahra told a press conference . <h> PKKH ( Pakistan Ka Khuda Hafiz ) is a respected Pakistani news website offering accurate and comprehensive coverage of politics , culture , and global affairs . With a commitment to objective reporting and insightful analysis , PKKH provides readers with a well-rounded perspective on current events . The platform encourages community engagement and leverages digital technology to reach a wide audience , contributing to informed discussions and awareness . 
@@118427919 <h> Fuel oil smuggling network rakes in $1 billion for Iran and its proxies <p> A sophisticated fuel oil smuggling network that some experts believe generates at least $1 billion a year for Iran and its proxies has flourished in Iraq since Prime Minister Mohammed Shia al-Sudani took office in 2022 , five sources with knowledge of the matter told Reuters . <p> The operation exploits a government policy under which Iraq allocates fuel oil to asphalt plants at heavily subsidised prices and involves a network of companies , groups and individuals in Iraq , Iran and Gulf states , according to the five people and three Western intelligence reports , two from August this year and one which was undated . <p> Under the scheme , anywhere from 500,000 to 750,000 metric tons of heavy fuel oil ( HFO ) , including high sulphur fuel oil ( HSFO ) -- equivalent to 3.4 million to 5 million barrels of oil -- is diverted from the plants each month and exported , mostly to Asia , two of the sources said . <p> The extent of the fuel oil smuggling since Sudani came to power and the involvement of multiple entities within Iraq in the illicit trade have not previously been reported . <p> Iranian and Iraqi officials did not respond to detailed requests for comment about the findings in the Reuters story . <p> Iran views its neighbour and ally Iraq as an economic lung and wields considerable military , political and economic influence there through the powerful Shi'ite militias and political parties it backs . It also sources hard currency from Iraq through exports and avoids U.S. sanctions via its banking system , Iraqi and U.S. officials say . <p> While Baghdad has been delicately balancing its role as an ally of both Washington and Tehran for years , with President-elect Donald Trump expected to take a hard line on Iran 's attempts to skirt U.S. sanctions , its activities in neighbouring Iraq are expected to come under increasing scrutiny . <p> Of the two main routes the fuel oil takes out of Iraq , one involves blending it with similar product from Iran and passing it off as purely Iraqi , helping Tehran evade tough U.S. sanctions on energy exports , said the five sources , who declined to be named due to the sensitivity of the matter . <p> The other involves exporting the fuel oil that was originally meant for the subsidy programme using forged documentation to mask its origins . <p> Iran benefits directly from the first route . Iranian fuel oil typically sells at a discount due to sanctions but it can sell it for a higher price if it is passed off as Iraqi . The second route , meanwhile , benefits the Iranian-backed militias in Iraq that control the smuggling scheme . <p> Three sources estimated how much both routes were bringing in based on assumptions about the volumes traded and relative prices . Their estimates ranged from $1 billion a year to over $3 billion . <p> The illicit trade potentially puts Iraqi institutions and officials at risk of U.S. sanctions for helping Iran and some Iraqi officials are concerned a Trump administration could target them , the three sources said . <p> However , Iraqi leaders rely heavily on the support of influential Iranian-backed Shi'ite groups to stay in power , making it difficult for them to crack down on illicit activities , such as the fuel oil smuggling , the sources said . <p> Sudani 's office did not respond to requests for comment about the trade , the risk of sanctions or government attempts to curb the business . <p> The lucrative smuggling and its links to Iran and individuals under U.S. sanctions are already on Washington 's radar . The subject came up in discussions between U.S. officials and Sudani when the Iraqi prime minister visited the United States in September , one of the sources said . <p> Asked by Reuters whether smuggling had been raised , a State Department official said : " While we do not comment on specific discussions , we can affirm the Department has emphasized with our Iraqi counterparts the harms of illicit trade and our support for bringing oil transparently to market . " <p> The U.S. Treasury did not respond to questions about the fuel oil trade or whether Iraqi entities and officials were at risk of sanctions . <p> U.S. sanctions on Iran are chiefly in response to its nuclear programme and its support for groups across the Middle East that the U.S. sees as terrorist organisations , including Hamas in Gaza , Hezbollah in Lebanon and the Houthis in Yemen . <p> While Washington has put pressure on Iraqi officials to clamp down on activities benefiting Iran , Tehran 's influence runs deep . <p> Central to the smuggling operation is Iraqi Shi'ite group Asaib Ahl al-Haq ( AAH ) , a paramilitary force and political party that was an early backer of Sudani and a key member of the bloc that nominated him to be prime minister , according to the five people with knowledge of the matter and the three reports . <p> The findings in the reports seen by Reuters are based on a broad range of sources in Iraq and its government departments who were not identified . <p> Sudani 's office and AAH and its leader Qais al-Khazali did not respond to questions posed by Reuters . <p> Backed by Iran 's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps ( IRGC ) , AAH was folded into Iraq 's security apparatus in 2018 and now also has 16 members of parliament . <p> Khazali was sanctioned by Washington in 2019 for AAH 's alleged role in serious human rights abuses , related to the killing of protesters in Iraq that year and other violence , including a 2007 attack that killed five U.S. soldiers . <p> Khazali mocked the sanctions , saying in a video posted on X two days later that he was personally hurt it had taken Washington so long to sanction him . <p> While fuel oil smuggling existed before Sudani came to power in October 2022 , it has grown in complexity and become more formalised since he took office , the five sources said . <p> Iraqi fuel oil exports are on track to hit an all-time high above 18 million tons this year , according to industry sources and ship-tracking data , more than double exports in 2021 . <p> To create surplus fuel oil for export , some of the asphalt plants involved in the network overstate their needs when requesting official fuel oil allocations . Others exist in name only , meaning their entire allocations can be diverted for export , according to the five sources and intelligence reports . <p> Central to the scheme is the State Company for Mining Industry , which operates asphalt plants as a joint venture with private companies , the sources said . It was originally established to boost local industries , such as flancoat production , an asphalt waterproofing material used in construction . <p> The state firm was singled out in one of the Western intelligence reports as coming under tight AAH control during Sudani 's tenure and being used for the export of large quantities of HSFO . Al-Thager Asphalt Industries Factory , one of the state mining company 's ventures according to its website , is used by AAH as a site for storing fuel oil , the intelligence report said . <p> Some of the plants allegedly involved are controlled by AAH or Kataib Hezbollah , another Iraqi militia backed by Iran 's Revolutionary Guards and designated as a terrorist organisation by Washington , the intelligence report said . <p> The State Company for Mining , Al-Thager and Kataib Hezbollah did not respond to detailed requests for comment . <p> In a previous attempt to clamp down on the trade , Sudani 's predecessor Mustafa al-Kadhimi ordered a review of the actual operating capacity of asphalt plants , cut their allocations and raised the price of subsidised fuel to $220 per ton from $70 , according to two of the sources and the intelligence reports . <p> Reuters could n't determine what prompted the crackdown . <p> In January 2023 , a few months after Sudani took over , the price was lowered to $100-$150 a ton , far below the market price for exports , estimated at anywhere between $300 and $500 . The lower the price of the subsidized fuel , the higher the profit margin when exporting it on the international market . <p> Sudani 's government also expanded licensing for asphalt plants to include 37 new projects , a near-doubling of the industry almost overnight , one of the sources said . All of the sources said some of the projects were fictitious , suggesting they were just ploys to get fuel oil allocations for export . <p> The allocation of fuel oil is determined by Sudani 's office through its National Operations Command ( PM-NOC ) . <p> The Oil Products and Distribution Company ( OPDC ) is then tasked with processing fuel movement requests , which include vehicle numbers , cargo volumes and specifications , and identifying information for each driver and truck . <p> The fuel oil movements are reviewed by the PM-NOC and approved with memos that let trucks pass through various checkpoints manned by Iraq 's oil police , three sources said . <p> PM-NOC , OPDC and Iraq 's state oil marketing company SOMO , the body responsible for exporting Iraqi fuel oil , did not respond to requests for comment . <p> Once diverted from the plants , the fuel oil takes one of the two routes , both involving forged documentation , the five sources said . <p> Some of the Iraqi fuel is exported directly through Iraq 's southern ports with falsified documents listing it as other products , such as vacuum residue or flancoat , both byproducts of refining that can be shipped legitimately . <p> The state mining company , which owns a network of heavy fuel oil blending facilities across Iraq , is authorised to transport fuel oil between them and export flancoat , one of the intelligence reports said . <p> The second route involves blending the illicit fuel oil with similar Iranian fuel and passing it off as purely Iraqi , again with falsified documents , to help Tehran skirt tough sanctions Western nations have imposed on its energy exports . <p> The southern Iraqi city of Basra has emerged as the heart of the blending operations , with Khor Al Zubair and Umm Qasr ports key export points for the illicit fuel , the five sources said . <p> Reuters was unable to determine whether the authorities in the ports were aware of the smuggling operation . <p> The blending is done by Iraqi engineers , typically during ship-to-ship transfers , and the fuel oil is then shipped to clients mainly in Asia , two of the intelligence reports said . <p> The operation is made easier by the similarity between Iraqi and Iranian fuel oil grades and it is difficult to determine scientifically that blending has occurred after the fact , one of the people said . <p> Iraq 's port authorities did not respond to requests for comment . <p> In July , Sudani 's government ramped up the price of subsidised fuel oil to $369 per ton , recommended cutting asphalt plant allocations to about 60% of their capacity and also ordered a review of their actual capacity . <p> Reuters was unable to determine why the government launched the review , or the outcome . Three of the sources said the move was an attempt by the government to distance itself from the smuggling operation . <p> Sudani 's representatives did not respond to requests for comment . <p> Subsidised prices have been inching back down since August and are now $228 to $268 a ton . 
@@118452390 <p> The ECO is a political and economic intergovernmental organization that promotes economic , technical , and cultural cooperation among member states . Founded in 1985 by Iran , Pakistan and Turkiye , the ECO aimed to succeed the Regional Cooperation for Development ( RCD ) , which existed from 1964 to 1979 . <p> The ECO 's objectives include contributing to the development of member states , removing trade barriers within the ECO region , developing intra-regional trade , promoting the ECO region 's integration with global markets and strengthening cultural and historical ties among member states . Pakistan 's foreign ministry said the ECO clean energy charter would contribute to the global network of regional sustainable energy centers under the framework of the UN 's Sustainable Energy for All Initiative . <p> " The charter is a flagship initiative of ECO in the energy sector which will focus on research &amp; development for innovative renewable clean energy sources to combat climate change and play a bridging role in enhancing regional cooperation for smooth transition to sustainable energy , " it said in a statement . <p> Dar signed the charter at the 28th meeting of the ECO Council of Ministers in Mashhad , Iran , where he also held a bilateral meeting with Iranian foreign minister Seyed Abbas Araghchi . " During the meeting , they exchanged views on areas of mutual interest and the latest regional and global developments , " Pakistan 's state-run APP news agency reported . " Both countries agreed to deepen bilateral cooperation in all spheres . " <p> The meeting came weeks after Araghchi 's visit to Islamabad to hold consultations with Pakistani leaders on the Middle East situation following Israel 's invasion of Gaza and Lebanon , and to discuss bilateral ties . Separately , Dar held meetings with ECO Secretary General Dr. Asad Majeed and Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Murat Nurtleu to discuss the latest regional and global developments , and platforms to boost inter-regional connectivity and trade cooperation among ECO members . 
@@118452406 <h> A Promotional Goodwill Visit <p> A country 's foreign policy , also called the foreign relations or foreign affairs policy is quite important because it determines the state of the relationship between the countries . The Quaid-e-Azam had defined the foreign policy of the newborn Pakistan as one of friendliness and goodwill towards all nations of the world . <p> We do not cherish aggressive designs against any country or nation . It is quite appreciable as well as commendable that all the governments over the past 77 years have been pursuing foreign policy as defined by the Father of the Nation irrespective of their political affiliations . <p> It is good to note that frequent exchanges of top civil and military leaders , and delegations as well as visits to friendly countries and international gatherings continue taking place to further strengthen and promote bilateral relations and lately , more importantly , seek foreign investment and trade in multiple sectors instead of aid . <p> Needless to mention here Pakistan enjoys good friendly relations with all the regional countries except neighbouring countries India and Afghanistan due to the lingering unresolved Kashmir issue and infiltration of terrorists from Afghan soil . <p> All governments over the past 77 years have been pursuing foreign policy as defined by the Father of the Nation -- irrespective of their political affiliations . <p> The recent visit by a high-level delegation and the President of Belarus was more than promotional and goodwill . First to arrive was a 68-member strong delegation headed by Foreign Minister Maxim Ryzhenkov including nine ministers and more than 40 traders and businessmen ahead of Belarus President Aleksandr Lukashenko came on a three-day official visit . While going through quite hectic engagements , the Belarusian President and the delegation made it amply clear that their coming here was with good and positive intentions of further promoting and strengthening bilateral relations and enhancing mutually beneficial cooperation in different sectors in the brotherly country . <p> The Belarus President and host PM Shehbaz Sharif held a meeting to exchange views regarding bilateral relations and further enhance the mutually beneficial cooperation in different sectors . Afterwards , they led delegation-level talks of the respective countries during which prevailing friendly relations between Pakistan and Belarus were reviewed at some level and appropriate decisions were taken to further boost these relations and cooperation . <p> Following these deliberations , the visiting distinguished guest and host PM addressed a joint press conference They said that Pakistan and Belarus have agreed to expedite the realisation of bilateral agreements aiming at enhancing the cooperation in key sectors such as trade , agriculture , food , defence and technology to achieve the cherished goal of monetizing their longstanding political and diplomatic relation , both sides have also agreed to solidify the understanding reached between the top leaders during their deliberations . <p> One of the key outcomes of their discussions was the signing of the " Roadmap for Comprehensive Cooperation between Pakistan and Belarus for 2005-2027 , " which outlines a strategic framework for duly enhancing the mutual economic ties through high-level meetings between the top leadership of Pakistan and Belarus , inter-governmental commissions , and focused collaborative initiatives aimed at ensuring further enhancing the mutually beneficial cooperation between the two countries . Both countries would hold further meetings in Minsk , Belarus , at the appropriate level in February next year to finalize the agreements signed by both leaders , converting these into concrete actions . <p> The two leaders also deliberated on the burning and persistently Israel-besieged Gaza and the lingering unresolved Kashmir issue ; expressing their concern over the failure of implementation of the ceasefire in Gaza despite United Nations resolutions and ruling by the International Court of Justice and non-implementation by India of the UN Security Council resolutions for granting the right of self-determination to the people of India 's illegally occupied territory of Jammu and Kashmir . The PM thanked the Belarus President for his country 's support on the Kashmir issue and emphatically emphasized that global peace would remain elusive until such issues were resolved . <p> The two leaders also appreciatively witnessed the exchange of significant agreements and Memorandum of Understandings ( MoUs ) covering a wide range of areas , including environmental protections , disaster management , halal trade , auditing institutions , financial intelligence sharing , vocational education and science and technology . Continuation of such high-level frequent exchange of visits of top leadership and delegations of the sorts would hopefully certainly and positively augur well for both Belarus and Pakistan in the coming years , to say the least , please . <p> The writer is a Lahore-based freelance journalist , columnist and retired Deputy Controller ( News ) , Radio Pakistan , Islamabad and can be reached at zahidriffat@gmal.com 
@@118452534 <p> He said shooting began the night before , while at dawn drones with speakers told them to " leave the school and the area to save your lives " . <p> The violence intensified in the morning , said Agha . <p> " I saw people fleeing so I decided to escape , " he said . " We walked and carried my mother on a donkey cart . There were tanks everywhere and the whole area was rubble and destruction . " <p> ' Dozens of bodies ' <p> The military frequently issues evacuation calls in northern Gaza where , since October 6 , it has pressed a major offensive it says is aimed at stopping Hamas from regrouping . <p> The operation began in the city of Jabalia before expanding to include Beit Lahia . <p> Ghadeer al-Bardai , 24 , said he also fled the area . <p> " Whoever stays will be sentenced to death , " he said , adding he saw " dozens of bodies " on the road out of Beit Lahia . <p> " Every day , ( Israel ) bombs and bulldozes homes and buildings and destroys all the necessities of life ... The northern Gaza Strip has become a ruin and rubble , " he told AFP . <p> On Tuesday , the UN 's humanitarian agency OCHA said an emergency medical team was successfully deployed to Kamal Adwan hospital in Beit Lahia for the first time in 60 days . <p> It said 65,000-75,000 people had been left " without access to food , water , electricity or reliable health care " by the Israeli operation in northern Gaza , " as mass casualty incidents continue " . <p> World Health Organization head Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said , in a post on X , that Kamal Adwan hospital was " attacked again last night " , adding that such actions were " depriving people of lifesaving care " . <p> The war began on October 7 , 2023 , sparked by Hamas 's unprecedented attack on Israel that resulted in the deaths of 1,208 people , mostly civilians , according to an AFP tally based on official data . <p> Israel 's retaliatory military campaign in Gaza has resulted in at least 44,532 deaths , mostly civilians , according to data from the territory 's Hamas-run health ministry , which the UN considers reliable . 
@@118452563 <p> MASHHAD - Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Senator Mohammad Ishaq Dar on Tuesday departed here after concluding his two-day visit to Iran . During the visit , he attended the 28th meeting of the ECO Council of Ministers besides meeting the participating leaders as well as the ECO Secretary-General Asad Majeed . <p> He also signed the Charter of the ECO Clean Energy Center- a flagship initiative of ECO in the energy sector to focus on research and development for innovative renewable clean Energy sources to combat climate change . The senior Iranian government officials and Pakistan 's Ambassador to Iran Mudassir Tipu saw off the deputy prime minister at the airport . <p> Deputy Prime Minister Ishaq Dar said that greater connectivity , liberalisation of visa regimes and simplification of border procedure are vital to unlock the geo economic potential of the ECO region . <p> In his remarks at the Meeting of ECO Council of Ministers in Iranian city of Mashhad today , he said this approach will help create mutual interdependencies for sustainable growth , while allowing the member states to devise better strategy for efficient use of energy resources . Ishaq Dar said greater economic cooperation among the ECO nations will bring peace and stability in the region . He said Pakistan is upgrading its rail and road infrastructure to facilitate further smooth flow of goods with the neighboring countries and beyond . <p> The Deputy Prime Minister said ECO 's specialized agencies and regional institutions can play a critical role in advancement of the objectives and ideals of the organization through greater engagements and people to people contacts . <p> Condemning the Israeli genocide in Gaza and its aggression in Lebanon and Syria , Ishaq Dar expressed his concerns over the escalating hostilities in the Middle East , wherein Israel has endangered regional peace and security . He reiterated Pakistan 's call to uphold peace and security in this region , safeguard Lebanon and Syria 's sovereignty and put an end to the ongoing humanitarian crisis in Palestine . <p> Meanwhile , Deputy Prime Minister Ishaq Dar signed the Charter of the ECO Clean Energy Center in Mashad on Tuesday at the 28th Meeting of the ECO Council of Ministers . <p> The Charter calls for focusing on research and development for innovative renewable clean energy sources to combat climate change . It will play a bridging role in enhancing regional cooperation for smooth transition to sustainable energy . Besides , it will contribute to the Global Network of Regional Sustainable Energy Centers in the framework of the UN 's Sustainable Energy for All Initiative . Dar reaffirms Pakistan 's commitment to ECO 's vision of regional connectivity , cooperation . Also , Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Senator Muhammad Ishaq Dar on Tuesday met Secretary-General of Economic Cooperation Organisation ( ECO ) Dr Asad Majeed , on the sidelines of the 28th ECO Ministerial Meeting being held here . In the meeting , they discussed the important role played by ECO in fostering regional cooperation by strengthening trade linkages , regional connectivity and people-to-people contacts . <p> Pakistan and Iran agreed to deepen cooperation in all spheres . This came during a meeting between Deputy Prime Minister Ishaq Dar and Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Aragchi in Mashhad , Iran on the sidelines of ECO Council of Ministers meeting . During the meeting , they exchanged views on areas of mutual interest and the latest regional and global developments . 
@@118452564 <h> Hamas , Fatah agree joint committee to run post-war Gaza <p> Cairo - Palestinian Islamist movement Hamas and Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas 's Fatah party have agreed to create a committee to jointly run post-war Gaza , negotiators from both sides said Tuesday . Under the plan , which needs Abbas 's approval , the committee would be composed of 10 to 15 non-partisan figures with authority on matters related to the economy , education , health , humanitarian aid and reconstruction , according to a draft of the proposal seen by AFP . <p> Following talks in Cairo brokered by Egypt , the two factions agreed the committee would administer the Palestinian side of the Rafah checkpoint on the border with Egypt -- the territory 's only crossing not shared with Israel . <p> Fatah 's delegation , led by central party committee member Azzam al-Ahmad , would return on Tuesday to Ramallah to seek Abbas 's final approval , negotiators from both sides told AFP . <p> The Hamas delegation was headed by politburo member Khalil al-Hayya . The initiative comes at a time of renewed diplomatic efforts to end the Gaza war , which was sparked by Hamas 's unprecedented October 7 , 2023 attack on Israel . 
@@118452565 <h> Gazans walk miles for bread and flour amid war shortages <p> GAZA - Faced with major food shortages after nearly 14 months of war , Palestinians describe long days hunting for flour and bread in the conflict-ravaged Gaza Strip . Every morning crowds form outside the few bakeries open in the Palestinian territory , as people desperately try to get a bag of bread at distribution points . Since the outbreak of war in Gaza last year , charities and international aid organisations have repeatedly warned of crisis levels of hunger for nearly two million people . A United Nations-backed assessment last month warned of famine looming in the northern Gaza Strip amid a near-halt in food aid after Israel launched an offensive in the area . Essential goods like water , fresh produce and medicines are also scarce . Gazans across the territory have told AFP in recent months how they wake up at the crack of dawn just to ensure they can get some flour or bread , with current availability reaching an all-time low . In the southern city of Khan Yunis , AFP photographers saw dozens of people at a distribution point , bodies pressed against each other . Over each other 's heads , everyone tries to reach out as far as possible to grab the round bread . A small child , her face covered in tears , squeezes a coin between her fingers as she makes her way through the crowd of adults . 
@@118472187 <h> CAIRO : The army issued new evacuation orders in the southern part of the small enclave after Israeli military strikes killed at least 23 Palestinians on Tuesday , the majority of whom were in the northern border town of Beit Lahiya , according to medics . <p> According to medics , four individuals were murdered elsewhere in Gaza City and eight people were killed in a series of airstrikes in Beit Lahiya . <p> Later , in the northern coastal enclave of Jabalia , the biggest of Gaza 's eight historic refugee camps , an Israeli airstrike killed two people and injured others , according to medical officials . <p> Medics reported that three women were murdered by Israeli drone fire near Rafah , in the far south , and that another airstrike on the Al-Falah School , which was providing shelter to displaced families in the Zeitoun area of Gaza City , killed six people and injured others . <p> Israeli attacks on their teams and fuel shortages have caused the Palestinian Civil Emergency Service to cease operations in Jabalia , Beit Lahiya , and Beit Hanoun for almost four weeks . <p> 13 out of 27 vehicles in central and southern Gaza were also reported to be stopped due to a shortage of fuel on Tuesday . According to the report , Israel has murdered 88 Civil Emergency Service members , injured 304 , and arrested 21 since the conflict started in October 2023 . <p> Gaza 's health ministry reported on Tuesday that since Israel began its military attack on October 7 , 2023 , at least 44,502 Palestinians have been dead and 105,454 injured . <p> Orders for evacuationCiting rocket fire from terrorists in the northern sections of the south Gaza city of Khan Yunis , the Israeli army ordered residents to evacuate on Tuesday . Families hurriedly fled westward , generally before daybreak , in response to the orders , the most recent of many . <p> In a statement on X , the army stated , " You must leave the area right away and relocate to the humanitarian zone for your own safety . " <p> Hamas-Fatah accordIn the meantime , mediators from both sides said on Tuesday that Hamas and Fatah , the party of Palestinian President Mahmud Abbas , had decided to form a committee to jointly run Gaza after the battle . <p> According to a copy of the proposal seen by AFP , the committee would consist of 10 to 15 nonpartisan individuals with power on issues pertaining to the economy , education , health , humanitarian relief , and reconstruction under the plan , which requires Mr. Abbas 's approval . <p> The two opposing Palestinian movements decided that the committee would oversee the Palestinian side of the Rafah border with Egypt , the only one in the territory that is not shared with Israel , after negotiations mediated by Egypt in Cairo . <p> On condition of anonymity , the negotiators stated that Fatah 's delegation , headed by Azzam al-Ahmad , a member of the central party committee , was expected to return to Ramallah on Tuesday in order to obtain Mr. Abbas 's final consent . Khalil al-Hayya , a member of the Hamas politburo , led the trip . <p> Israeli politicians praise Trump 's promise.Israeli officials praised US President-elect Donald Trump 's promise on Tuesday that if detainees detained in the Gaza Strip are not freed before his inauguration on January 20 , there will be " hell to pay " in the Middle East . <p> Trump stated in a post on Truth Social that the detainees must be released by the time he takes office , without mentioning any specific organization . <p> " Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America , " he declared , if his demand was not fulfilled . <p> Trump 's scathing remarks were openly praised by Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and some of his ministers . <p> At the beginning of a cabinet meeting , Netanyahu stated , " President Trump placed the emphasis in the right place , on Hamas , and not on the Israeli government , as is customary ( elsewhere ) . " <h> PKKH ( Pakistan Ka Khuda Hafiz ) is a respected Pakistani news website offering accurate and comprehensive coverage of politics , culture , and global affairs . With a commitment to objective reporting and insightful analysis , PKKH provides readers with a well-rounded perspective on current events . The platform encourages community engagement and leverages digital technology to reach a wide audience , contributing to informed discussions and awareness . 
@@118497767 <p> Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Governor Faisal Karim Kundi and representatives of multiple parties on Thursday criticised the PTI for what they said was the party 's " rhetoric centred on violence and conflict " , as the party skipped a multi-party conference in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa hosted by Kundi . <p> Last month , Kundi announced the conference in December to discuss various issues faced by the province , including terrorism . <p> The KP governor has repeatedly highlighted the province 's longstanding issues , including law and order , equitable distribution of resources , and financial rights . <p> Various matters , such as the peace and security of the province , its resources , and the province 's issues with the Centre , will be discussed , Kundi had said while speaking to reporters . <p> PTI had also skipped an MPC on October 7 which vowed all-out support for Gaza and demanded an immediate ceasefire a year after the catastrophic Israeli invasion . <p> At Thursday 's conference , Governor Kundi said that KP is not a prerogative of a certain political party . <p> " We extended an invitation to PTI but perhaps they are unable to talk about peace , " he said . " PTI has always talked about violence and bullets . " <p> He went on to say that the province 's chief minister Ali Amin Gandapur had said on the floor of the provincial assembly that he would buy ammunition and bullets . <p> The governor then lamented the loss of life in Kurram , and that the provincial government had not shown seriousness on the issue . The death toll from recent violence in Kurram has reached 130 while 186 people are injured following a November 21 ambush on civilian passenger convoys going from Parachinar to Peshawar . <p> On November 27 , warring sides agreed to extend a week-long tenuous ceasefire , ending on Nov 30 , for another 10 days despite sporadic incidents of violence . <p> " The federal and provincial governments have failed on the issue of law and order , " Kundi said at the conference , adding that more than 70 law enforcement officials have been killed . <p> Kundi announced that a political committee and technical committee will be established following the conference . <p> He noted that the province 's minerals are the right of the people , adding that all routes will be opened for Pak-Afghan trade . <p> " Residents of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa should not be harassed in Islamabad and other provinces , " Kundi said . <h> PTI snubs KP governor 's invite for Kurram moot <p> PTI announced its decision not to attend the conference on Wednesday , saying that the PPP -- to which Kundi belongs -- was working with the federal government to get PTI banned and even got a resolution about it passed by the Balochistan Assembly . <p> PTI insisted that , unlike the PPP , it had a mandate from residents to rule KP and was performing its duties well . 
@@118497800 <p> Amnesty Inter ? national has found " sufficient evidence " to conclude that Israel has committed and continues to commit " genocide " against Palestinians in Gaza , stating that " genocidal intent has been part and parcel of Israel 's conduct in Gaza since Oct 7 2023 , including its military campaign . " <p> " It considers that Israel committed these acts with the specific intent to destroy Palestinians in Gaza , as such . It concludes that Israel has committed genocide in Gaza . " <p> In retaliation to Hamas ' Oct 7 , 2023 attacks , Israel 's military offensive has killed more than 44,500 Palestinians and injured nearly 105,739 -- with the death toll feared to be much higher due to thousands still missing under the rubble . <h> ' Like an apocalypse ' <p> Amnesty International conducted the research for the report between Oct 2023 and July 2024 . In doing so , it investigated the situation on the ground during the nine-month period . <p> The organisation interviewed 212 people , including Palestinian victims and witnesses , local authorities in Gaza , healthcare workers and NGO staff , conducted fieldwork and analysed a range of visual and digital evidence , such as satellite imagery . It also analysed statements by the Israeli government , army officials , and official Israeli bodies . <p> The report quoted a 42-year-old named Mohammed who spoke about his experience of displacement from Rafah : " Here in Deir Al-Balah , it 's like an apocalypse . There is no room for you to pitch a tent ; you have to set it up near the coast ... You have to protect your children from insects , from the heat , and there is no clean water , no toilets , all while the bombing never stops . You feel like you are subhuman here . " <p> Israel has committed at least three out of the five acts banned under the 1948 United Nations Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide , according to the findings . <p> " Genocide is a crime under international law , whether committed in times of peace or armed conflict , " the report stated . <p> In the report , Amnesty Inter ? national considered the possible commission of genocide by Israel from the perspective of state responsibility . <p> It noted that Israel is a party to the Genocide Convention , and the commission of genocide by organs of the state or persons or groups whose conduct is attributable to the state accordingly gives rise to state responsibility . <p> For the assessment of state responsibility , the report takes two elements into account : attribution of allegedly wrongful conduct to a state and a breach of an applicable international obligation . <p> Amnesty noted that the conflict in Gaza has seen some of the highest known death tolls among children ( 13,319 by October 7 , 2024 ) , journalists , as well as health and humanitarian workers of any recent conflict in the world . <p> " The level and speed of damage to and destruction of homes and infrastructure across all sectors of economic activity has similarly not been seen in any other conflict in the 21st century , " it noted . <p> Palestinians inspect the damage in the aftermath of an Israeli strike on a tent camp , in Khan Younis in the southern Gaza Strip , Dec 5 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> The report focused on the Israeli authorities ' policies and actions in the occupied Gaza Strip in the context of the military offensive launched in the wake of attacks carried out by Hamas and other armed groups on Oct 7 , 2023 . <p> But the exhaustive 296-page report -- chock full of first-hand accounts , interviews , satellite imagery and analysis of videos and photos taken by journalists -- covers only a small fraction of the allegations of violations and crimes under international law perpetrated by Israel . A fuller assessment , Amnesty notes , will only be possible after Israel 's current offensive has ended . <p> The report does address Israeli violations perpetrated against Palestinians in the occupied West Bank , including East Jerusalem , in the context of Israel 's increased repression through arbitrary restrictions on movement , an alarming spike in state-backed settler violence , the unlawful use of lethal force , mass arrests , torture and other ill-treatment , and forcible transfer , as well as aggressive settlement construction and expansion . It says that this issue is the subject of a separate investigation . <p> The Israeli army has repeatedly insisted that its military offensive was targeting Hamas . While the report acknowledged the crimes perpetrated by Hamas and other Palestinian armed groups against Israel , it stated that Israel 's military conduct against Palestinians was not " justified " . <p> Amnesty Secretary General Agnes Callamard said in a statement issued today , " The atrocity crimes committed on 7 October 2023 by Hamas and other armed groups against Israelis and victims of other nationalities , including deliberate mass killings and hostage-taking , can never justify Israel 's genocide against Palestinians in Gaza . " <h> Press conference with media <p> Amnesty International held a press conference at The Hague a day earlier , which was virtually attended by Dawn.com . The panel , consisting of Callamard and two researchers , presented the research findings and answered questions from the media . <p> During the presentation , Callard said , " Israel has intended and intends to commit genocide against Palestinians in the occupied Gaza strip , " adding that Amnesty found Israel 's " clear intent to destroy Palestinians in Gaza " . <p> She further stated that Israel had carried out " deliberate actions " for the destruction of Gaza and urged action from the international community . <p> " States that transfer arms to Israel violate their obligations to prevent genocide under the convention and are at risk of becoming complicit " , Callamard said , according to AFP . <p> While responding to a question on Israel 's motives behind the actions , she said , " It does not matter why ... It must stop , " adding , " Whatever their motives were , it has genocidal intent . " <h> Israel denies accusations <p> Israel 's Foreign Ministry issued a statement calling the rights group a " deplorable and fanatical organisation " that has " once again produced a fabricated report " , according to Al Jazeera . <p> A statement published by The Times of Israel quoted Amnesty Israel saying that it " does not accept the claim that genocide has been proven to be taking place in the Gaza Strip and does not accept the operative findings of the report . " <p> It further said , " the scale of the killing and destruction carried out by Israel in Gaza has reached horrific proportions " but it does not believe Israel 's actions " meet the definition of genocide as strictly laid out in the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide " . <p> Amnesty International 's statement mentioned , " On multiple occasions , the organisation shared its findings with the Israeli authorities but had received no substantive response at the time of publication . " <p> A Palestinian man inspects a school sheltering displaced people after it was hit in an Israeli strike , amid the Israel-Hamas conflict , in Gaza City Dec 3 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> Previously , South Africa accused Israel of breaching the UN Genocide Convention , arguing that even the Oct 7 attack could not justify such alleged actions , as it launched a landmark case at the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) . In response , Israel rejected the accusations as false and " grossly distorted " and argued it was acting to defend itself and was fighting Hamas , not the Palestinian population . <p> " Israel rejects with disgust the absurd and false actions leveled against it by ICC , " his office said in a statement , adding that Netanyahu wo n't " give in to pressure " in the defence of Israel 's citizens . <p> While the ICC application is a separate matter , a decision by ICC judges that there are reasonable grounds to believe Netanyahu and Gallant are committing war crimes and crimes against humanity in Gaza , could strengthen South Africa 's ICJ case , as that court also looks at other courts ' determinations . <h> ' Wake-up call ' <p> Callard said in Amnesty 's statement , " We are calling on the Office of the Prosecutor of the ICC to urgently consider adding genocide to the list of crimes it is investigating and for all states to use every legal avenue to bring perpetrators to justice . No one should be allowed to commit genocide and remain unpunished . " <p> She also stated , " Our damning findings must serve as a wake-up call to the international community : this is genocide . It must stop now . " <p> Around the world , there have been countless protests by civilians , activists , students and other groups calling for an end to Israel 's offensive in Gaza . Many international bodies like Amnesty and the UN , have repeatedly called out Israel 's indiscriminate attacks against Palestinians . <p> Despite such calls , the Israeli government has continued its military operations in Gaza and occupied Palestinian territories . There is an urgent need for governments , especially those supporting Israel , to hold Israel accountable for its actions . <p> Header Image : Palestinians gather at the site of an Israeli strike on a house , amid the conflict , in Deir Al-Balah in the central Gaza Strip on Dec 4 , 2024. -- Reuters 
@@118497802 <p> * Landmark report says speed and extent of damage to infrastructure totally without precedent in the 21st century * Israel 's invasion of Palestinian territory yielded highest death tolls of children , journalists , health &amp; humanitarian workers than any other in recent history <p> KARACHI : Amnesty Inter ? national has found sufficient basis to conclude that Israel committed prohibited acts under the Genocide Convention , namely : killing , causing serious bodily or mental harm and deliberately inflicting on Palestinians in Gaza conditions of life calculated to bring about their physical destruction . <p> In a landmark research-based report , titled ' You Feel Like You Are Subhuman ' : Israel 's Genocide Against Palestinians in Gaza , the global human rights watchdog concludes that these acts were committed with the specific intent to destroy Palestinians in Gaza , who form a substantial part of the Palestinian population . <p> Amnesty International conducted most of the research for this report between October 2023 and July 2024 . In doing so , it focused on the situation on the ground during the nine-month period . <p> In a statement issued alongside the report , Amnesty Secretary General Agn ? s Callamard said their research demonstrates that " Israel has carried out acts prohibited under the Genocide Convention , with the specific intent to destroy Palestinians in Gaza . Month after month , Israel has treated Palestinians in Gaza as a subhuman group unworthy of human rights and dignity , demonstrating its intent to physically destroy them " . <p> In the report , Amnesty Inter ? national considers the possible commission of genocide by Israel from the perspective of state responsibility . It notes that Israel is a party to the Genocide Convention , and the commission of genocide by organs of the state or persons or groups whose conduct is attributable to the state accordingly gives rise to state responsibility . <p> For the assessment of state responsibility , the report takes two elements into account : attribution of allegedly wrongful conduct to a state and a breach of an applicable international obligation . <p> In the report , Amnesty notes that the conflict in Gaza has seen some of the highest known death tolls among children ( 13,319 by October 7 , 2024 ) , journalists , as well as health and humanitarian workers of any recent conflict in the world . <p> According to the latest AFP tally , a total of 44,532 Palestinians have been killed in nearly 14 months , which includes 30 deaths in the previous 24 hours . In addition , 105,538 people have been wounded in the Gaza Strip since the Israeli offensive began last year . <p> " The level and speed of damage to and destruction of homes and infrastructure across all sectors of economic activity has similarly not been seen in any other conflict in the 21st century , " it notes . <p> By July 2024 , around 63pc of the total structures in Gaza had been damaged or destroyed , according to a UN Satellite Centre ( UNOSAT ) satellite imagery-based assessment . <p> The report focuses on the Israeli authorities ' policies and actions in the occupied Gaza Strip in the context of the military offensive launched in the wake of attacks carried out by Hamas and other armed groups on Oct 7 , 2023 . <p> It assesses them within the framework of genocide under international law to determine whether there is sufficient evidence to support a conclusion that Israel 's conduct in Gaza amounts to genocide . <p> But the exhaustive 296-page report -- chock full of first-hand accounts , interviews , satellite imagery and analysis of videos and photos taken by journalists -- covers only a small fraction of the allegations of violations and crimes under international law perpetrated by Israel . A fuller assessment , Amnesty notes , will only be possible after Israel 's current offensive has ended . <p> The report does address Israeli violations perpetrated against Palestinians in the occupied West Bank , including East Jerusalem , in the context of Israel 's increased repression through arbitrary restrictions on movement , an alarming spike in state-backed settler violence , the unlawful use of lethal force , mass arrests , torture and other ill-treatment , and forcible transfer , as well as aggressive settlement construction and expansion . It says that this issue is the subject of a separate investigation . <p> Definition of genocide <p> The Genocide Convention enumerates five specific acts that constitute the underlying criminal conduct of genocide . <p> These are : killing members of the group ; causing serious bodily or mental harm to members of the group ; deliberately inflicting on the group conditions of life calculated to bring about its physical destruction in whole or in part ; imposing measures intended to prevent births within the group ; and forcibly transferring children of the group to another group . <p> In terms of the mens rea , in addition to the specific intent characterising the crime of genocide , each of these acts must be committed with general intent to commit the underlying act . <p> The Amnesty International secretary general noted that Israel is fully aware of the irreparable harm it was inflicting on Palestinians in Gaza and continues to do so in defiance of countless warnings and legally binding decisions from the ICJ . <p> " Our damning findings must serve as a wake-up call to the international community : this is genocide . It must stop now , " Ms Callamard noted in her statement , released alongside the report on Thursday . <p> Actions urged <p> In its recommendations , Amnesty stresses the need for " an immediate , sustained ceasefire to save and protect civilian life , and to allow for safe , consistent and predictable routes to bring aid into and across Gaza for those who need it " . <p> The Amnesty report asks Israel to " immediately end and refrain , in the future , from all conduct that amounts to crimes under international law and other serious violations of international humanitarian law and international human rights law , including ... unlawful attacks carried out through air strikes and ground operations ; the use of starvation of civilians as a method of warfare ; the destruction of houses , land , cultural , religious and other civilian objects without imperative military necessity ; collective punishment through movement restrictions and limitations on essential services ; enforced disappearances and arbitrary arrest ; torture and other ill treatment ; and unlawful and arbitrary restrictions on other human rights , including the rights to health , education and family life . " <p> It calls on Israeli authorities to immediately stop the commission of acts prohibited under the Genocide Convention against Palestinians in Gaza ; suspend , investigate and prosecute any governmental or other state officials suspected of responsibility for genocide ; and , engage and cooperate fully and in good faith with the proceedings before the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) . <p> It also calls for the unhindered passage into Gaza of humanitarian aid and other life-saving supplies , including sufficient quantities of food , medicine , fuel , electricity and other necessities . It demands that Israel immediately open all available aid routes and access points , and urgently and significantly increase the amount of aid able to move through all of Gaza 's crossings and to all areas within the besieged territory . 
@@118497849 <h> Military calls for strict laws to curb hate under guise of free speech <p> Top military brass has called on the government to implement stricter laws to combat the growing tide of hate speech and polarisation being spread under the guise of free speech <p> Chief of Army Staff General Asim Munir chaired the 84th Formation Commanders Conference at the General Headquarters ( GHQ ) in Rawalpindi , attended by key military leaders including Corps Commanders , Principal Staff Officers , and Formation Commanders of the Pakistan Army . <p> According to a statement issued by the Inter-Services Public Relations ( ISPR ) on Thursday , the conference began with a solemn tribute to the martyrs of Pakistan 's Armed Forces , Law Enforcement Agencies , and citizens , including those who died during the recent violent protests in Islamabad . <p> The forum offered prayers for their sacrifices in safeguarding Pakistan 's security and sovereignty . <p> The conference strongly condemned the ongoing human rights abuses in Indian Illegally Occupied Jammu and Kashmir and reaffirmed Pakistan 's unwavering support for the Kashmiri people . <p> The participants also expressed solidarity with Palestine , condemning the atrocities in Gaza and calling for international legal action to end the military aggression there . <p> A comprehensive briefing was provided on the current security environment , both domestic and international , along with a review of the Army 's operational readiness to counter emerging threats . <p> A special focus was given to counterterrorism operations , with the Army reiterating its commitment to neutralising terrorists , their facilitators , and abettors , particularly in Balochistan , where the Baloch Liberation Army ( BLA ) Majeed Brigade is active . <p> The conference addressed ongoing malicious propaganda , particularly after the Army 's lawful deployment in Islamabad to secure key government buildings and ensure the safety of visiting delegations . <p> It condemned the coordinated efforts by certain political elements to undermine the Army 's reputation and its relationship with the public . The forum labelled this attempt as part of a larger , externally-fueled plot , which it vowed would fail . <p> The forum called for stronger government measures to curb the unethical use of freedom of expression , which it claimed has been exploited to spread lies and deepen divisions . It stressed the need to identify and punish those spreading fake news for political or financial gain . <p> Concern was also raised over the continued use of Afghan soil by terrorists , particularly the group known as Fitna Al Khawarij , to launch attacks on Pakistan . <p> The forum urged both Pakistan and Afghanistan to focus on mutually beneficial engagement and called for visible measures from the Afghan government to prevent its soil from being used by terrorists . <p> On the domestic front , the Army reiterated its commitment to supporting socio-economic and development initiatives in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan , aiming to uplift the resilient populations in these provinces , who have been at the forefront of the fight against terrorism . <p> COAS Munir concluded by emphasising the Army 's focus on professionalism , operational readiness , and its unwavering dedication to Pakistan 's security and stability . He reiterated that the Army would continue to serve the nation , protect it from all threats , and ensure the safety of the public , without any political bias . 
@@118497976 <p> WASHINGTON : The United States said Thursday it disagreed with a report by Amnesty International that accused Israel of " genocide " in Gaza and said its arms suppliers risked complicity . <p> " We disagree with the conclusions of such a report . We have said previously and continue to find that the allegations of genocide are unfounded , " State Department spokesman Vedant Patel told reporters . <p> Patel said that the United States , Israel 's main weapons supplier and diplomatic ally , remained concerned about the 14-month war in Gaza and distanced himself from Israel 's denunciation of Amnesty International as " deplorable and fanatical . " <p> " There continues to be a vital role that civil society organizations like Amnesty International and human rights groups and NGOs play in providing information and analysis as it relates to Gaza , " Patel said . <p> The US disagreement on the report " does not change the continued concern that we have as it relates to this conflict 's impact on civilians and civilian casualties , and we continue to stress at every turn that there is a moral and strategic priority for Israel to comply with international humanitarian law , " Patel said . 
@@118497996 <h> Gaza death toll nears 44,600 as Israel kills 48 more Palestinians <p> Israeli attacks killed 48 more Palestinians in the Gaza Strip , pushing up the overall death toll since last year to 44,580 , the Health Ministry in the enclave said on Thursday . <p> A ministry statement added that some 105,739 others have been injured in the ongoing assault . <p> " Israeli forces killed 48 people and injured 201 others in five massacres of families in the last 24 hours , " the ministry said . <p> " Many people are still trapped under the rubble and on the roads , with rescuers unable to reach them , " it added . <p> The Israeli army has continued a genocidal war on the Gaza Strip since a Hamas attack on Oct. 7 , 2023 , despite a UN Security Council resolution calling for an immediate cease-fire . <p> International recognition of the Gaza genocide has grown in the second year of the deadly Israeli war , as organizations and leaders have labeled the events a deliberate attempt to destroy the population . <p> Last month , the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant for war crimes and crimes against humanity in Gaza . 
@@118497999 <h> PM Shehbaz pledges full support for Palestinian rights , justice <p> Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif reaffirmed Pakistan 's unwavering support for the Palestinian people 's struggle for self-determination , freedom , and justice during a meeting with Palestinian Ambassador Dr. Zuhair Mohammad Hamadallah Zaid in Islamabad on Thursday . <p> The prime minister strongly condemned Israel 's ongoing atrocities against Palestinians , particularly the catastrophic situation since October 7 , 2023 , which has claimed over 43,000 lives and left more than 105,000 injured . <p> He expressed disappointment over the lack of global accountability for Israel 's actions and reiterated Pakistan 's call for an immediate and unconditional ceasefire in Gaza , along with unhindered humanitarian aid to the affected Palestinian population . <p> Shehbaz Sharif assured the ambassador of Pakistan 's unwavering solidarity with the resilient Palestinian people and pledged continued support for their cause . <p> He underscored the need for a just and lasting resolution to the Palestine issue , advocating for a two-state solution based on pre-1967 borders , with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as the capital of an independent Palestinian state , in accordance with UN resolutions . <p> Ambassador Dr. Zuhair Zaid expressed his deep gratitude for Pakistan 's steadfast support , including humanitarian aid and scholarships for Palestinian medical students in Pakistan . He praised the prime minister 's commitment to the Palestinian cause and thanked the Pakistani nation for their solidarity . <p> Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif extended his best wishes to the ambassador for a successful tenure in Pakistan and assured him of full cooperation . 
@@118498012 <h> Army calls for action against fake news , pledges security commitment <p> The military leadership has called on the government to introduce and enforce strict laws to curb the misuse of freedom of expression , particularly to prevent the spread of fake news , lies , and divisive rhetoric . <p> The appeal was made during the 84th Formation Commanders Conference , chaired by Chief of Army Staff ( COAS ) Gen. Asim Munir at GHQ , according to a statement from the Inter-Services Public Relations ( ISPR ) on Thursday . <p> The conference , attended by corps commanders , principal staff officers , and all formation commanders of the Pakistan Army , stressed the need to identify and hold accountable those spreading false information for political or financial gain . <p> The forum reaffirmed the army 's commitment to serving the nation without bias or political affiliation , ensuring security against all internal and external threats . It condemned efforts to incite violence and manipulate public sentiment , labeling them as attempts to divide the people and the armed forces . The statement warned that such propaganda , often fueled by external actors , would fail . <p> The participants expressed concern over malicious narratives targeting the lawful deployment of the army to secure government buildings and safeguard visiting delegations . This coordinated disinformation campaign was described as part of a broader plan by certain political factions to undermine public trust in state institutions . <p> Fateha was offered for martyrs from the armed forces , law enforcement , and civilians who sacrificed their lives for Pakistan 's security and sovereignty . The forum also condemned human rights violations in Kashmir , reaffirmed unwavering support for the Kashmiri people , and expressed solidarity with Palestinians , urging international efforts to end aggression in Gaza . <p> The leadership reviewed Pakistan 's security environment , operational readiness , and counterterrorism efforts , with a focus on neutralizing terrorists and their facilitators , particularly in Balochistan . <p> It also highlighted the ongoing use of Afghan soil by terrorist groups , urging Afghanistan to take tangible steps to prevent such activities for mutual benefit . <p> The forum reiterated support for socioeconomic initiatives in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan , commending the resilience of the people in these provinces against terrorism . It pledged continued efforts to ensure their development and well-being . 
@@118498091 <h> Journalists of Gaza <p> Initially , the invasion of Lebanon diverted attention from the genocide being committed against the Palestinian people in Gaza . Then , the eruption of a renewed offensive in Syria , backed by the West and its regional allies , further distracted from the plight of Gaza 's besieged population . As new crises emerged , such as the escalation in Ukraine and the imposition of military martial law in South Korea , Gaza gradually faded from the mainstream political discourse in the West . <p> Yet , despite the shifting global focus , the people of Gaza continue to endure atrocity after atrocity , with hundreds losing their lives almost daily . It is in this context that the few remaining journalists in Gaza , risking their lives to document the suffering and share the stories of their people with the world , must be protected and celebated . Palestinian journalist Wael al-Dahdouh , who recently won the Courage Prize at the Reporters Without Borders ( RSF ) Press Freedom Awards , exemplifies the bravery of these journalists . His work , and the work of others like him , deserves not only respect but also urgent recognition , even though the world has largely ignored their cries for help . <p> Al-Dahdouh 's story mirrors the experiences of many journalists in Gaza . As the lead reporter for Al-Jazeera , he became a primary target for Israel . While Israel did not kill him outright , it specifically targeted his two nephews a day after the death of his eldest son . His family was systematically attacked in a campaign of terror designed to break his spirit . Despite these unimaginable losses and the constant threat to his life , al-Dahdouh has continued his work with remarkable courage and honor . <p> His example , perhaps more than any previous recipient of the Courage Prize , should serve as a reminder to journalists worldwide . It calls upon those who unquestioningly echo the views of authoritarian governments to reflect on their role . Rather than acting as mere mouthpieces for those in power , journalists should strive to seek and report the truth , no matter the obstacles . Al-Dahdouh 's unyielding dedication to his craft in the face of overwhelming adversity stands as a beacon for the integrity of journalism itself . 
@@118498099 <p> General Syed Asim Munir , Chief of Army Staff ( COAS ) , presided over the two-day 84th Formation Commanders Conference at the General Headquarters ( GHQ ) . The conference was attended by Corps Commanders , Principal Staff Officers , and all Formation Commanders of the Pakistan Army . <p> The conference began with a moment of reflection as the participants paid tribute to the martyrs of the Armed Forces , Law Enforcement Agencies , and citizens of Pakistan , who sacrificed their lives for the country 's security and sovereignty . Special prayers were offered for law enforcement officers who were martyred during the recent protests in Islamabad . <p> The forum strongly condemned the ongoing human rights violations in Indian Illegally Occupied Jammu and Kashmir ( IIOJK ) and reaffirmed Pakistan 's unwavering political , diplomatic , and moral support for the Kashmiri people . It also condemned the atrocities in Gaza and expressed solidarity with the Palestinian people , calling for international legal measures to stop military aggression in the region . <p> Participants were briefed on the current security situation , both within Pakistan and internationally . The Army 's operational readiness to tackle evolving traditional and non-traditional threats was thoroughly reviewed . The forum also focused on counterterrorism operations , with a particular emphasis on neutralizing terrorists and their facilitators , especially those operating in Balochistan , including the Baloch Liberation Army ( BLA ) Majeed Brigade . <p> A significant point of discussion was the malicious propaganda surrounding the lawful deployment of the Army in Islamabad to protect key government buildings and ensure the safety of visiting delegations . The forum condemned this coordinated misinformation campaign , which was seen as an attempt by certain political elements to create divisions between the public , the Armed Forces , and national institutions . The participants firmly rejected this strategy , which they described as a futile effort fueled by external forces . <p> The forum also emphasized the need for the government to introduce stronger laws to regulate the unethical use of freedom of expression , particularly in spreading fake news and promoting polarization . It was agreed that those who profit from spreading lies for political or financial gain must be held accountable . The Army reiterated its commitment to serving the nation impartially , protecting both the people and the country from all threats , and remaining free from political influence . <p> The forum expressed concern over the continued use of Afghan soil by terrorist groups , particularly those linked to Fitna Al Khwarij , to launch attacks on Pakistan . It was stressed that both neighboring Islamic nations must focus on mutually beneficial cooperation and take steps to prevent the use of Afghan territory by terrorists . <p> Additionally , the forum reaffirmed its support for the ongoing socioeconomic and development efforts in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan . The resilient people of these provinces , who have long been at the forefront of the fight against terrorism , will continue to receive the Army 's full support in their quest for peace and prosperity . The forum also committed to assisting government initiatives to foster economic growth , combat illegal activities , and eliminate the terror-crime nexus . <p> In his concluding remarks , COAS General Syed Asim Munir underscored the importance of professionalism , operational readiness , and the Army 's steadfast dedication to Pakistan 's security . He reaffirmed that the Army would continue to serve the nation with unwavering commitment , regardless of the challenges ahead . 
@@118498186 <h> Propaganda for driving a wedge between the public and the Pakistan Army through Fake News will never be successful , observed Formation Commanders Conference <p> Islamabad , Pakistan : The leadership of the Pakistan Army has expressed grave concern over the malicious pre-planned , coordinated , and premeditated propaganda by certain political elements that reflect an attempt to drive a wedge between the public and the Armed Forces and institutions of Pakistan . <p> The two days 84th Formation Commanders Conference at GHQ was presided over by General Syed Asim Munir , NI ( M ) , Chief of Army Staff ( COAS ) while Corps Commanders , Principal Staff Officers , and all Formation Commanders of Pakistan Army attended the forum . <p> It may be noted that the Federal government under Article 245 of the Constitution deployed the Pakistan Army as a support instrument of civil administration in the capital city of Islamabad to secure key government buildings and provide a safe and secure environment when the President of Belarus was visiting Pakistan along with a huge delegation and PTI announced protest at the same time and tried to attack Islamabad and disrupted public life . <p> The forum resolved that the Army remains committed to serving the nation &amp; public and guard against all external and internal threats without any bias and political affiliation , and any attempt to pitch innocent people against each other and use of violence as an instrument for vested gains can never be tolerated . <p> The Forum again observed concerns over the Fake News phenomenon that is hampering the well-being of society The forum emphasized the need to purge Fake News propagation and highlighted that the Government must promulgate and implement stringent laws and regulations to check unfettered and unethical use of freedom of expression to spew venom , lies and sow the seeds of polarization in the society . The forum observed that spreading fake news for vested political/financial interests needs to be identified and brought to justice . <p> Unabated use of Afghan soil against Pakistan by terrorists especially those belonging to Fitna Al Khwarij ( TTP ) was also noted with concern . The forum urged that it is in the interest of both neighboring Islamic countries to rather focus on mutually beneficial engagements and IAG needs to take visible measures to prevent the use of its soil by the terrorists . <p> The forum reiterated its resolve to continue supporting all socioeconomic &amp; development efforts being undertaken in Khyber-Pakhtunkhawa and Balochistan by Federal and Provincial Governments for the well-being of the resilient people of these Provinces who continue to stand tall against the scourge of terrorism . <p> Highlighting the Army 's commitment to socioeconomic progress , the forum resolved to continue to support government efforts in fostering economic growth , cracking down on the illegal spectrum , and eradicating the terror-crime nexus . <p> The forum began by offering Fateha and paying solemn tribute to the martyrs of the Armed Forces , Law Enforcement Agencies , and citizens of Pakistan who sacrificed their lives for the nation 's security and sovereignty , including those Law Enforcement Agencies personnel who embraced martyrdom during recent violent protests in Islamabad . <p> The forum condemned ongoing human rights violations in Indian Illegally Occupied Jammu and Kashmir and reaffirmed Pakistan 's unwavering political , diplomatic , and moral support for the Kashmiri people . It also expressed solidarity with the Palestinian people , strongly condemning the atrocities in Gaza and supporting international legal measures to end military aggression . <p> Participants were briefed on the prevailing security environment , both external and internal , and reviewed the Army 's operational readiness to address evolving traditional and non-traditional threats . <p> The forum conducted a comprehensive analysis of ongoing counterterrorism operations and resolved to continue neutralizing terrorists , their facilitators , and abettors working at the behest of hostile forces to destabilize Pakistan , with heightened focus on operations against terrorists operating inside Balochistan including BLA Majeed Brigade . <p> Concluding the conference , the COAS emphasized the importance of professionalism , operational readiness , and the Army 's unwavering dedication to ensuring Pakistan 's security and stability , notwithstanding any odds and challenges . 
@@118498187 <h> BBC 's reporting about Pakistan is flouting global media ethics <p> British Broadcasting Corporation ( BBC ) has been one of the most popular soft power tools of the Western world to keep an eye on democracies , mostly in developing countries . Many critics of Global South claim that BBC 's pivotal role for Western powers in indoctrinating the self-serving narrative of True Democracy , Rule Based Order , Human Rights , Freedom of Expression , and Global Citizenship and promotes Western definition of democracy and rule-based order resulting in any other form of governance becoming anti-democratic and destructive . <p> Fake narrative building helped the West in several regime changes , prompting Islamophobia , Russophobia , and now the idea of containing China . In the quest to serve the Western standards of human rights and freedom of expression sometimes BBC coined new dictions in the past but now writing new concepts of media ethics where hearsay has become a tool for what BBC wishes to establish against any country , regime , political party or in favor of the western cause . However , this game of exploiting its own written media ethics that have nothing to do with media ethics being taught globally , and due to this style of reporting the BBC is surely facing a credibility crisis . Now one can find BBC reports that can surely be considered " fake News " or " cooked News " . <p> Moreover , the Gaza genocide exposed BBC 's double standards of the so-called protector of human rights , child rights , women 's rights , and freedom of expression because BBC plays the role of a blinded folded media covering the Gaza genocide by publishing only what Israel and Western hegemons wish to promote . The Western narrative of self-righteousness gives room to the idea that the only right way is their way , the rest is autocratic , inhuman , purging of human rights , etc. though in reality , Western-defined rule-based order is a prime source of disorder and chaos in the world . Gaza is the only exception rather the coverage of the Ukraine War is also based on new media ethics BBC is coming although they are in contradiction of laid down rules of reporting . In the last decade , BBC has become crazy and even facing a credibility crisis within the Western world . So BBC 's reporting about Pakistan is not an exception to its habit of creating ' news ' out of hearsay and without citing credible sources . <p> However , now it has become the new norm for BBC to target the Pakistan Army without having concrete facts , figures , and sources . In the last 10 days , two BBC reports cited ' sources ' without naming them indicating that Pakistan is again at target of BBC as it had been in the past . <p> The reporting of foreign media , particularly BBC on the PTI November 24-26 protest confirmed without being present at the scene of the alleged firing of security forces on protesters of PTI on the night of November 26 , 2024 , foreign media reported that shotguns were used by the police , 45 or 55 ( there is a difference of 10 numbers and they are talking about humans , not cucumbers ) protesters were wounded and transferred to Poly Clinic Hospital and some of them were received dead at hospitals however , foreign media has no identities of these 45 or 55 persons and have no footage of their dead bodies nor their addresses from where they belonged and such reports provides just ' sources requesting anonymity ' and eye ' witnesses ' who are not ready to be mentioned and they who are faceless , nameless , and without any identity . BBC report had audio files of ' eyewitnesses ' and claimed that hospital authorities were not sharing data and files of injured but same time claimed it had audios of some hospital authorities . The report also added that ' some injured at hospitals denied to show their identities in fear of their arrest . According to the procedure , no injured person can be provided the facilities of operation and even first aid if the case is Medico Legal ( gunshots , etc ) and he is alive but does not want to share an identity . It is also claimed that postmortem of dead persons was not allowed and bodies were taken away by relatives but where these bodies were sent and buried has not been investigated by the foreign media . <p> Now in another report , BBC claimed that some families of personnel of the Pakistan Army ( retired/serving ) talked to BBC claiming that they had been harassed and bullied for supporting former prime minister Imran Khan but the entire report is based on anonymity and anonymous figure having no name and no identity . Should the Pakistan government not ask BBC under what media ethics BBC is developing stories without naming so-called victims ? In her report , the anchor said that BBC contacted several families belonging to the Pakistan Army who are under threat for supporting Imran Khan . However , not a single name of such a person was mentioned in the report <p> In 2019 , BBC ran a story against the Pakistan Army having no credible and concrete proof and documentation which was challenged by the Pakistan Army as well as by the Pakistani government . According to complaint number 1(i)/20119-DGEP , lodged by the External Publicity Wing ( EP Wing ) of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting , Government of Pakistan , BBC even manipulated the response of Pakistan 's military media wing Inter-Services Public Relations ( ISPR ) to a BBC email , and the BBC Correspondent ran a story base of cooked , loaded , fabricated and contested information . <p> The story titled " Uncovering Pakistan 's Secret Human Rights Abuses " dated June 2 , 2019 , was strongly challenged by the ISPR on the same day and then the Pakistan government also refuted the story and challenged the credibility of a story . The Pakistan government in its complaint added that public-funded organizations ( e.g. BBC ) should show responsibility to uphold objectives ordained in their charter and editorial guidelines but BBC 's story accused armed forces of killing innocent civilians without having a meeting with ISPR officials or taking their detailed viewpoint . BBC avoided getting any viewpoint of ISPR by telephoning or meeting any ISPR official anywhere in Pakistan ; although , the ISPR Spokesman was available to national and international media . <p> In April 2024 , BBC again ran a story targeting the Pakistan Army for manipulating a local incident in Bahawalnagar Punjab and it did not mention any proof and credible sources against Pakistan Army 's alleged highhandedness against the local police and later investigation confirmed that allegations leveled by BBC against Pakistan Army were unfounded , cooked and contrary to facts . Here is a question why does BBC target the Pakistan Army and cook stories without having any credible data and names of so-called victims and why does it establish the entire stories on ' hearsay ' ? The answer may be found in the para mentioned below which has been reproduced from an article published in April 2024 titled ' BBC reports Bahawalnagar Incident : Pakistan is the new target of Western rule-based Disorder ' . The viewpoint given by the writer may help to understand what BBC does against the Pakistan Army by creating so-called stories out of nothing . The writer says : <p> " Those who understand the mechanism of Western propagation can understand that the Pakistan Army that is the sole instrument of Pakistan to protect the country of 225 million people is being treated as Western media has been treating Ho Chi Minh , Saddam Hussein , Muammar Gaddafi , Bashar al-Assad , Fidel Castro , Nicol ? s Maduro and Vladimir Putin . All , according to Western media were/are human rights abusers , denying democracy and using excessive state power against the public . The real side of the story is that the majority of personalities mentioned above fought to save their countries from Western hegemony and disintegration . Some of them survived but most of them were purged with the fatal tool of Western media well before the launching hard power of the military " . 
@@118498231 <p> Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif has reaffirmed Pakistan 's unwavering support for the just struggle of the Palestinian people for their right to self-determination , freedom and justice . <p> He was talking to Palestinian Ambassador Dr. Zuhair Mohammad Hamadallah Zaid , who called on him in Islamabad today . <p> The Prime Minister reiterated Pakistan 's strongest condemnation of Israel 's genocidal actions against innocent Palestinians , particularly the worsening situation since October 7 , 2023 that has resulted in the loss of over 43,000 lives and injured more than 105,000 others . <p> He expressed his deep disappointment at the absence of global accountability of Israel and reiterated the call for an immediate and unconditional ceasefire in Gaza and unhindered flow of humanitarian assistance to the suffering Palestinian people in the occupied territories . <p> The Prime Minister assured the Ambassador that the entire Pakistani nation stands united in its solidarity with the brave Palestinian people and will continue to support them in every possible way . <p> He also stressed upon the need for a just and lasting resolution of the Palestine issue , based on the two-state solution , with the creation of an independent state of Palestine with pre-1967 borders and Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital , in accordance with the UN 's relevant resolutions . <p> Ambassador Dr. Zuhair Mohammad Hamadallah Zaid deeply appreciated Pakistan 's steadfast support to the Palestinian people during their present ordeal , as well as Pakistan 's principled position on the Palestinian Question . <p> He thanked the Prime Minister for his support for Palestine , providing humanitarian assistance and offering scholarships to Palestinian medical students to complete their studies in Pakistan . <p> The Prime Minister wished the Ambassador a productive tenure in Pakistan and assured him of his full support at all times . 
@@118498232 <p> The Formation Commanders Conference has expressed the resolve to continue neutralizing terrorists , their facilitators , and abettors working at the behest of hostile forces to destabilize Pakistan . <p> The two-day conference concluded in Rawalpindi today with Army Chief General Syed Asim Munir in the chair . <p> The forum further said operations against terrorists operating inside Balochistan including BLA Majeed Brigade will be given due focus . <p> It also emphasized that the government should promulgate and implement stringent laws and regulations to check unfettered and unethical use of freedom of expression to spew venom , lies and sow the seeds of polarization . <p> The forum said those spreading fake news for vested political and financial interests need to be identified and brought to justice . <p> It resolved that Army remains committed to serving the nation and the public and guard against all external and internal threats without any bias and political affiliation , and any attempt to pitch innocent people against each other and use of violence as an instrument for vested gains can never be tolerated . <p> The formation commanders noted with concern the malicious propaganda done in the aftermath of the lawful deployment of the Army in the capital to secure key government buildings and provide safe and secure environment for the valued visiting delegations . This pre-planned coordinated and premeditated propaganda reflects continuity of a sinister design by certain political elements as an attempt to drive a wedge between the public and the Armed Forces and institutions of Pakistan . This futile attempt , fueled and abetted by external players , will never be successful . <p> Besides , the forum condemned ongoing human rights violations in Indian Illegally Occupied Jammu and Kashmir and reaffirmed Pakistan 's unwavering political , diplomatic , and moral support for the Kashmiri people . It also expressed solidarity with the Palestinian people , strongly condemning the atrocities in Gaza and supporting international legal measures to end military aggression . <p> Participants were briefed on the prevailing security environment , both external and internal , and reviewed the Army 's operational readiness to address evolving traditional and non-traditional threats . <p> Unabated use of Afghan soil against Pakistan by terrorists especially belonging to Fitna Al Khwarij was also noted with concern . Forum urged that it is in the interest of both neighboring Islamic countries to rather focus on mutually beneficial engagements and Interim Afghan Government needs to take visible measures to prevent use of its soil by the terrorists . <p> Forum reiterated resolve to continue supporting all socioeconomic and development efforts being undertaken in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan by Federal and Provincial Governments for well-being of the resilient people of these Provinces who continue to stand tall against scourge of terrorism . <p> Highlighting Army 's commitment to socioeconomic progress , the forum resolved to continue to support government efforts in fostering economic growth , cracking down on illegal spectrum and eradicating terror-crime nexus . <p> Concluding the conference , the Army Chief emphasized the importance of professionalism , operational readiness , and the Army 's unwavering dedication to ensuring Pakistan 's security and stability , notwithstanding any odds and challenges . <p> The forum began by offering Fateha and paying solemn tribute to the martyrs of the Armed Forces , Law Enforcement Agencies , and citizens of Pakistan who sacrificed their lives for the nation 's security and sovereignty , including those Law Enforcement Agencies personnel who embraced martyrdom during recent violent protests in Islamabad . <p> Corps Commanders , Principal Staff Officers , and all Formation Commanders of Pakistan Army attended the conference . 
@@118517536 <h> Israel is accused by Amnesty of " genocide " in Gaza . <h> According to AFP , Amnesty world said its latest report was a " wake-up call " for the world community and accused Israel of " committing genocide " against Palestinians in Gaza since the bombardment began last year . <p> According to the London-based rights group , their conclusions were supported by fieldwork , testimony from Gazans on the ground , satellite photos showing destruction , and " dehumanizing and genocidal statements by Israeli government and military officials . " <p> In a statement , Amnesty International president Agnes Callamard stated , " Israel has repeatedly treated Palestinians in Gaza as a subhuman group deserving of neither human rights nor dignity , demonstrating its intent to physically destroy them . " <p> " The world community needs to be made aware that this is genocide by our terrible results . Now it has to stop , " she continued . <p> " There is no question whatsoever that Israel has military goals . However , at a press conference in The Hague , Callamard told AFP , " the existence of military objectives does not negate the possibility of a genocidal intent . " <p> According to her , the organization 's conclusions were derived from the standards outlined in the UN Convention on the Prevention of Genocide . <h> PKKH ( Pakistan Ka Khuda Hafiz ) is a respected Pakistani news website offering accurate and comprehensive coverage of politics , culture , and global affairs . With a commitment to objective reporting and insightful analysis , PKKH provides readers with a well-rounded perspective on current events . The platform encourages community engagement and leverages digital technology to reach a wide audience , contributing to informed discussions and awareness . 
@@118542250 <p> International Criminal Court Prosecutor Karim Khan will be allowed to stay on in his role at the world 's permanent war crimes tribunal during a UN-led investigation into his alleged sexual misconduct , sources told Reuters on Friday . <p> The UN 's Office of Internal Oversight Services ( OIOS ) , which is leading the inquiry , has started contacting witnesses , a source with direct knowledge of the investigation said . <p> Khan denies the allegations . He has said he will cooperate with an inquiry and that matters relating to the misconduct allegations will be dealt with by his two deputies . <p> Khan 's office and lawyers did not immediately respond to requests for comment . <p> A diplomatic source , who also spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss a confidential investigation , said the court 's governing body wanted the inquiry concluded quickly to limit its impact on several major cases before the Hague-based institution . <p> The ICC 's governing body said last month that it would seek an external investigation into the allegations , " to ensure a fully independent , impartial and fair process " . <p> The ICC is a permanent court that can prosecute individuals for war crimes , crimes against humanity , genocide and crimes of aggression in member states or by their nationals . <p> Khan noted in October when the allegations were first reported that his office had been the target of a " wide range of attacks and threats " that had coincided with several high-profile war crimes investigations . <p> Last month , the court issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his former defence chief Yoav Gallant , accusing them of war crimes and crimes against humanity in the Gaza conflict . Israel rejects the allegations . <p> In 2023 , the court ordered the arrest of Russian President Vladimir Putin and Maria Lvova-Belova , Russia 's commissioner for children 's rights , accusing them of the war crime of illegally deporting hundreds of children from Ukraine . They deny the allegations . <p> Several NGOs and members of the prosecutor 's staff have urged Khan to step down during the inquiry to avoid it interfering with work by the office . <p> Asked about the news that he would be allowed to stay on , Alix Vuillemin who leads one of the NGOs that called for Khan to step aside told Reuters that her organisation -- Women 's Initiatives for Gender Justice -- still believes " it would be most gracious " if Khan decided to temporarily step back . <p> The case involving Khan was initially referred to the ICC 's oversight mechanism in May , but it said it would not proceed because the victim had not confirmed the allegations . 
@@118542253 <p> THE " most dangerous man in the world " , according to Noam Chomsky , is back in the White House . His first term in office proved him to be a self-centred , erratic , cunning , destructive and even criminal leader . <p> However , he has been an effective servant of the corporate bosses and the security " deep state " of the US ( led by the Pentagon , CIA and the FBI . ) Together , they rule America in the name of democracy and free enterprise but , in reality , in pursuit of exclusive global hegemony and the maximisation of corporate profits . Trump 's political success represents the political degeneration of the US . <p> Many expect Trump to push for a deal with Putin on Ukraine which would prevent the expansion of Nato to the borders of Russia . ( Unlike Ukraine , Finland has been independent since the Russian revolution . ) The deep state , however , is likely to resist any such peace initiative in conjunction with Nato and European allies . <p> Trump might try to placate the deep state and his allies by linking a deal with Putin on Ukraine with a loosening of Russia 's strategic ties with China . Putin , however , knows how Kissinger 's success in driving a wedge between Moscow and Beijing led to Moscow 's defeat in the Cold War . He will never allow a repeat of this strategic disaster for Russia . <p> Trump 's efforts to cultivate Putin could also alienate Western Europe which supports Ukrainian independence within its present borders , for fear of being outflanked by Russia and China in the whole of Eurasia . Given Trump 's scepticism about Nato , he is unlikely to compensate Europe for such a strategic setback . Accordingly , the question arises : will Trump break Nato or will Nato break Trump ? <p> Trump , like Biden , celebrates the genocide in Gaza , the setback to Hezbollah , and the presumed humiliation of Iran . <p> During Trump 's first term , he treated China as an enemy to be contained . However , his policy of imposing punitive duties on Chinese imports and confronting it in East Asia and the Western Pacific are not likely to be feasible . If US exporters can not import cheaper Chinese inputs for their export products , they will be priced out of foreign markets and American consumers will similarly have to pay higher prices if denied access to Chinese consumer goods . <p> Similarly , Trump 's threats against de-dollarisation are likely to be unavailing . China has developed sufficient countervailing economic and military power and diplomatic influence to render this also an unprofitable option . <p> China will not look for confrontation with the US but , according to Chinese economist Keyu Jin , the likely costs for the US of a policy of confrontation with China should give it pause . While many of the friends and allies of the US in the region fear the rise of China and would welcome the US as a counterweight , very few of them favour a policy of threats and sanctions towards China . <p> Chas Freeman , a respected former US ambassador , says most of the smaller countries of the world wish to maximise their options and room for manoeuvre , not follow one or the other superpower . He says China understands this , but US " liberal democrats " do not , and US " securocrats " do not care to . <p> China is neither an aggressive nor a hegemony-seeking state . But it is a global economic power with vital economic interests spread all over the world , which it will secure , preferably without risking war . Many of these vital interests are located in Africa and the Muslim world and to a great extent are currently protected by the confidence the countries of Africa and the Muslim world repose in China . If the US were to succeed in undermining this confidence , it would gain a very significant strategic advantage . <p> Under these circumstances , one might expect a pragmatic China to seek an accommodation with the US , instead of countering it . This would make sense for China except for the fact that it knows the US seeks exclusive global hegemony and will not countenance China as an equal strategic partner . <p> It won the Cold War against the Soviet Union and it is committed to winning the New Cold War against China . Accordingly , Chinese strategists realise they have little choice but to counter the anti-China policy of the US . <p> Trump , like Biden , celebrates the genocide in Gaza , the setback to Hezbollah , and the presumed humiliation of Iran . He sees this as the victory of his beloved Israel but also of his Arab and Muslim ruling clients over their own people . He rejects a two-state solution to the Palestine problem and will try to resurrect the Abraham Accords to permanently defeat the aspirations of the Arab and Muslim people . <p> The latest developments in Syria confirm this US strategy , which is immediately aimed at discrediting Russia and Iran within the Arab world , but is ultimately aimed at discrediting China within the Muslim world . Beyond that , it represents the unfolding of a Western civilisational challenge to the Muslim world . <p> Likewise , Trump will have no interest in being balanced or ' fair ' in his handling of relations with India and Pakistan . He will continue his ' Howdy Modi to Namaste Trump ' relationship which represented a landmark strategic development in Indo-US relations . India is a de facto strategic ally of the US and participates in other US-led anti-China alliances . <p> The fact that India under Modi , according to its most respected political commentators , has become a ' Muslim hating country ' will not faze Trump unless American Muslims , including Pakistanis , can influence his political decision-making . His recent statements indicate that possibility . <p> While Trump personally admires Imran Khan , he is no friend of Pakistan . There is , nevertheless , speculation he may invite Imran Khan to his inauguration . But it is unclear if Trump will insist on his invitation being respected if Imran Khan 's jailers demur . <p> Finally , could Trump 's primitive political agenda ensure the end of the civilised world by totally reneging on the climate undertakings and responsibilities of the US as his cabinet appointments suggest ? <p> While this is still unclear , the failure of COP29 is a bad omen . The current term of Trump will likely determine whether or not the world enters the stage of irreversible climate heating -- which would generate secondary consequences that could terminate human civilisation long before climate would . <p> The writer is a former ambassador to the US , India and China , and head of UN missions in Iraq and Sudan . 
@@118542308 <h> Arsonists set Melbourne synagogue ablaze <p> Mask-wearing arsonists set a synagogue ablaze before dawn on Friday in the Australian city of Melbourne , police said , as the attack was widely condemned . <p> The fire broke out at 4:10 am ( 1710 GMT Thursday ) in the Adass Israel Synagogue when some congregants were already inside , police said , gutting much of the building in the southeast Melbourne suburb of Ripponlea . <p> " They appeared to be spreading an accelerant of some type in the premises , " he said . <p> The synagogue was " engulfed in flames " , he added . " We believe it was deliberate . We believe it has been targeted . What we do n't know is why . " Police will increase patrols as they hunt for the arsonists , who were wearing dark clothing , he said . Detectives would be looking at CCTV footage and interviewing any witnesses , Murray said . <p> Television images showed firefighters hosing down the embers through the blackened door of the single-storey building , which has a grey concrete facade . <p> A board member of the synagogue , Benjamin Klein , said a few congregants were sitting and praying inside when the fire started . <p> " They heard loud banging , " Klein told AFP . <p> Liquid was poured inside the synagogue and set alight , he said . <p> " If this had happened an hour later , there would have been hundreds of people inside , " Klein said . <p> The congregants " ran out the back of the synagogue . One man who ran out -- his hand got burnt , " he said . " The fire was extensive , " he told AFP . Books and furniture were destroyed , he said , vowing that the community would " rebuild " . Members of the congregation formed a human chain to remove religious items from the damaged synagogue , including Torah scrolls -- one of which was brought to Australia from Germany in World War II , the Age newspaper reported . Klein said the synagogue had increased security over the past 12 months amid safety concerns , without giving further details . <p> In 1995 , the synagogue was damaged by a deliberately lit fire , with walls and Torah scrolls burned . Klein , who was a child at the time , said he remembered standing inside the synagogue with his grandfather , who he said was a Holocaust survivor . Prime Minister Anthony Albanese " unequivocally " condemned the fire and said federal police would help the state to investigate it . <p> " This violence and intimidation and destruction at a place of worship is an outrage , " Albanese said in a statement . <p> " This attack has risked lives and is clearly aimed at creating fear in the community . " <p> The prime minister said he had " zero tolerance " for anti-Semitism . " It has absolutely no place in Australia . " Israeli President Isaac Herzog said he spoke with Albanese on Friday and expressed his " firm condemnation of the horrific arson attack " . <p> He added that " the increasingly serious antisemitic attacks on the Jewish community required firm and strong action " . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said the " heinous act can not be separated from the anti-Israel sentiment emanating from the Australian Labor government " , citing Canberra 's decision to vote for a UN resolution demanding the end of Israel 's " unlawful " occupation of Palestinian territory . The war in Gaza has sparked protests from supporters of Israel and Palestinians in cities around Australia , as in much of the world . Executive Council of Australian Jewry president Daniel Aghion said the community had been living in fear of such an incident since the start of the war in Gaza . " This for us is just evidence of that fear , " he told reporters . <p> " This is something that is the greatest manifestation of what we have been seeing and hearing in terms of threatening e-mails , threatening social media , threatening letters and all sorts of other material . " Hamas ' October 7 , 2023 attack which triggered the Gaza war resulted in the deaths of 1,208 people in Israel , mostly civilians , according to an AFP tally based on official figures . 
@@118542347 <h> Jasleen Kaur wins Turner Prize <p> This year 's Turner Prize has been awarded to artist Jasleen Kaur , reported DW . At 38 , Kaur was the youngest person on the shortlist for the 2024 edition of the prestigious Tate Britain-sponsored art award . The other artists in the running were Pio Abad , Claudette Johnson and Delaine Le Bas . <p> Kaur was honoured for her exhibition titled Alter Altar , featuring sculptures and soundscapes that reflect her background growing up in an Indian Sikh family in Glasgow . <p> The artist incorporates everyday objects in her work . Her winning exhibition included a red Ford Escort covered in a huge white lace doily , an acrylic " sky " hung with ordinary items , a large rug , and a soundtrack featuring worship bells , Sufi Islamic devotional music , Indian harmonium and pop music tracks . <p> Personal , political spiritual <p> The jury praised " the considered way in which Kaur weaves together the personal , political and spiritual ? choreographing a visual and aural experience that suggests both solidarity and joy . " <p> In a video on the Turner Prize website , Kaur speaks of her interest in a Sikh tradition of balancing the political and spiritual , saying , " I 'm really interested in that duality and I 've become quite obsessed with this particular point in my lineage where devotional practices were done across religious lines . That was happening for hundreds of years . But through the violence of borders , the violence of colonialism , the violence of empire , so much of this stuff , it has been impacted . And I 'm obsessed with it because it tells me that there 's a different way to live together . " <p> ' Cut ties with Israel ' <p> That stance seems to have informed Kaur 's acceptance speech at Tate Britain in London on Tuesday evening when she expressed support for pro-Palestinian protesters outside the ceremony . Wearing a scarf with the Palestinian flag , she called for a ceasefire in Gaza and for Britain 's Tate museums to cut ties with donors linked to Israel 's government . <p> " It 's not a radical demand - this should not risk an artist 's career or safety , " she added . <p> Kaur had already communicated her position through an open letter published ahead of the prize ceremony . Titled " Tate : end your complicity in genocide , " the letter has been signed by more than 1,200 artists and art workers . <p> The museum organisation had already said before the ceremony that they would not respond to Kaur 's comments . Alex Farquharson , director of Tate Britain and chair of the Turner Prize jury , said he just wanted to focus on the winner 's art . <p> Prestigious modern art prize <p> Now in its 40th year , the Turner Prize is awarded by Tate Britain annually to an artist either from or working in Britain , and recognises recent work rather than lifetime achievement . The winner receives ? 25,000 ( ? 30,000 , $31,600 ) with the other shortlisted artists each receiving ? 10,000 . The award is named for the 19th-century English painter JMW Turner . Past winners of the Turner Prize have included internationally successful artists such as Damien Hirst , Steve McQueen and Antony Gormley. 
@@118542470 <h> Army Commanders ask govt to enact strict laws to control fake news spread <p> Top military brass note with concern malicious propaganda done in the aftermath of lawful deployment of Army in Islamabad . This pre-planned coordinated propaganda reflects continuity of a sinister design by certain political elements . Operations against terrorists operating inside Balochistan including BLA Majeed Brigade discussed in-detail . <p> The forum began by offering Fateha and paying solemn tribute to the martyrs of the Armed Forces , Law Enforcement Agencies , and citizens of Pakistan who sacrificed their lives for the nation 's security and sovereignty , including those Law Enforcement Agencies personnel who embraced martyrdom during recent violent protests in Islamabad . <p> The forum condemned ongoing human rights violations in Indian Illegally Occupied Jammu and Kashmir and reaffirmed Pakistan 's unwavering political , diplomatic , and moral support for the Kashmiri people . It also expressed solidarity with the Palestinian people , strongly condemning the atrocities in Gaza and supporting international legal measures to end military aggression , the ISPR said . <p> Participants were briefed on the prevailing security environment , both external and internal , and reviewed the Army 's operational readiness to address evolving traditional and non-traditional threats . <p> The forum conducted a comprehensive analysis of ongoing counterterrorism operations and resolved to continue neutralising terrorists , their facilitators , and abettors working at the behest of hostile forces to destabilise Pakistan , with heightened focus on operations against terrorists operating inside Balochistan including BLA Majeed Brigade . <p> Forum noted with concern the malicious propaganda done in the aftermath of the lawful deployment of the Army in the capital to secure key government buildings and provide safe and secure environment for the valued visiting delegations . This pre-planned coordinated and premeditated propaganda reflects continuity of a sinister design by certain political elements as an attempt to drive a wedge between the public and Armed Forces and institutions of Pakistan . " This futile attempt , fueled and abetted by external players , will never be successful , InshAllah . " <p> Forum emphasised that it is imperative that government should promulgate and implement stringent laws and regulations to check unfettered and unethical use of freedom of expression to spew venom , lies and sow the seeds of polarization , the ISPR said . " Those spreading fake news for vested political / financial interests need to be identified and brought to justice . " <p> The forum resolved that Army remains committed to serving the nation and public and guard against all external and internal threats without any bias and political affiliation , and any attempt to pitch innocent people against each other and use of violence as an instrument for vested gains can never be tolerated . <p> Unabated use of Afghan soil against Pakistan by terrorists especially belonging to Fitna Al Khwarij was also noted with concern . Forum urged that it is in the interest of both neighbouring Islamic countries to rather focus on mutually beneficial engagements and IAG needs to take visible measures to prevent use of its soil by the terrorists . <p> Forum reiterated resolve to continue supporting all socioeconomic and development efforts being undertaken in Khyber-Pakhtunkhawa and Balochistan by federal and provincial governments for well-being of the resilient people of these provinces who continue to stand tall against scourge of terrorism . <p> Highlighting Army 's commitment to socioeconomic progress , the forum resolved to continue to support government efforts in fostering economic growth , cracking down on illegal spectrum and eradicating terror-crime nexus . Concluding the conference , the COAS emphasised the importance of professionalism , operational readiness , and the Army 's unwavering dedication to ensuring Pakistan 's security and stability , notwithstanding any odds and challenges . 
@@118542474 <p> ISLAMABAD - Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif Thursday reaffirmed Pakistan 's unwavering support for the just struggle of the Palestinian people for their right to self-determination , freedom and justice . <p> He was talking to Palestinian Ambassador Dr Zuhair Mohammad Hamadallah Zaid , who called on him in Islamabad . The prime minister reiterated Pakistan 's strongest condemnation of Israel 's genocidal actions against innocent Palestinians , particularly the worsening situation since October 7 , 2023 that has resulted in the loss of over 43,000 lives and injured more than 105,000 others . <p> He expressed his deep disappointment at the absence of global accountability of Israel and reiterated the call for an immediate and unconditional ceasefire in Gaza and unhindered flow of humanitarian assistance to the suffering Palestinian people in the occupied territories . <p> The Prime Minister assured the Ambassador that the entire Pakistani nation stands united in its solidarity with the brave Palestinian people and will continue to support them in every possible way . <p> He also stressed upon the need for a just and lasting resolution of the Palestine issue , based on the two-state solution , with the creation of an independent state of Palestine with pre-1967 borders and Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital , in accordance with the UN 's relevant resolutions . <p> Ambassador Dr. Zuhair Mohammad Hamadallah Zaid deeply appreciated Pakistan 's steadfast support to the Palestinian people during their present ordeal , as well as Pakistan 's principled position on the Palestinian Question . He thanked the Prime Minister for his support for Palestine , providing humanitarian assistance and offering scholarships to Palestinian medical students to complete their studies in Pakistan . <p> The Prime Minister wished the Ambassador a productive tenure in Pakistan and assured him of his full support at all times . <p> Also , PM Shehbaz Sharif on Thursday directed the authorities concerned to ensure effective and swift taxation and take strict measures to implement the strategy for revenue collection . The prime minister , who chaired a review meeting on the country 's economic situation and digitization of the Federal Board of Revenue ( FBR ) , said that the FBR 's digitization was a key component of the government 's agenda of economic reforms , according to a PM Office press release . <p> He appreciated the progress in the FBR 's digitization and lauded the efforts of the finance minister , state minister for finance , FBR chairman and secretary of finance . Expressing satisfaction over the increasing fiscal space , he said the efforts of the economic team were coming to fruition . <p> The prime minister directed to complete the important tasks related to the FBR 's digitization by the end of this month . <p> He said that consequent to the crackdown against the smuggled fuel and reduction in petrol and diesel prices , the sale of petroleum products had reached 1.58 million metric tons - the highest ever during the last 25 months . Instructing strict measures to curb petrol smuggling , Prime Minister Shehbaz said that 15% increase in the year-on-year sale of petroleum products showed the revival of the energy market . <p> Meanwhile , PM Shehbaz Sharif on Thursday appreciated the performance of the Ministry of Commerce for its prompt compliance for his instructions issued and directed to convene a meeting of the National Export Development Board next week to increase Pakistani exports . <p> The prime minister made these remarks while chairing a review meeting on Commerce Ministry 's performance , a PM office news release said . <p> The prime minister directed to take immediate steps to create sustainable employment opportunities for the border districts of Balochistan and step up measures to further increase Pakistani rice exports to Malaysia . <p> During Dato ' Sri Anwar Ibrahim 's recent visit to Pakistan , it was agreed to increase rice exports from Pakistan to Malaysia , he added . <p> The PM underscored that the existing special economic zones in Pakistan would be activated along with proper facilities of hotels , hospitals , business schools and other services to increase domestic exports . <p> The prime minister directed to form a special cabinet committee to increase the production of wheat , cotton , sugarcane , rice , edible oil and other major crops . 
@@118542485 <h> Amnesty says Israel committing genocide in Gaza <p> Israel is committing genocide against Palestinians in Gaza , human rights group Amnesty International concluded in a new report released on Thursday . <p> " Amnesty International 's research has found sufficient basis to conclude that Israel has committed and is continuing to commit genocide against Palestinians in Gaza , " the UK-based organization said in a statement . <p> Its latest report , You Feel Like You Are Subhuman : Israel 's Genocide Against Palestinians in Gaza , documents how , during its military offensive launched after the Oct. 7 , 2023 Hamas attacks , " Israel has unleashed hell and destruction on Palestinians in Gaza brazenly , continuously and with total impunity . " <p> Since the cross-border incursion , Israel has killed more than 44,000 people in Gaza and reduced the enclave to ruins . <p> " Amnesty International 's report demonstrates that Israel has carried out acts prohibited under the Genocide Convention , with the specific intent to destroy Palestinians in Gaza . These acts include killings , causing serious bodily or mental harm and deliberately inflicting on Palestinians in Gaza conditions of life calculated to bring about their physical destruction . Month after month , Israel has treated Palestinians in Gaza as a subhuman group unworthy of human rights and dignity , demonstrating its intent to physically destroy them , " said Agnes Callamard , secretary general of Amnesty International . <p> " Our damning findings must serve as a wake-up call to the international community : this is genocide . It must stop now . " <p> Warning that the states continuing to provide arms to Israel are violating their obligation to prevent genocide , and are at risk of becoming complicit in genocide , the non-profit urged Israel 's Western allies , including the US , Germany and EU states , to act now " to bring Israel 's atrocities against Palestinians in Gaza to an immediate end . " <p> " Israel has repeatedly argued that its actions in Gaza are lawful and can be justified by its military goal to eradicate Hamas . But genocidal intent can co-exist alongside military goals and does not need to be Israel 's sole intent , " Agnes added . <p> Amnesty said it examined Israel 's acts in Gaza " closely and in their totality , taking into account their recurrence and simultaneous occurrence , and both their immediate impact and their cumulative and mutually reinforcing consequences . " The organization , according to the statement , considered the scale and severity of the casualties and destruction over time , and also analyzed public statements by officials , finding that prohibited acts were often announced or called for in the first place by high-level officials in charge of the war efforts . <p> Last month , the International Criminal Court issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant for war crimes and crimes against humanity in Gaza . <p> Israel also faces a genocide case at the International Court of Justice for its war on Gaza . 
@@118542496 <h> Human Rights Day &amp; Unfulfilled Promises <h> As Martin Luther King said , " A right delayed is a right denied " . <p> Each year , on the 10th of December , we celebrate International Human Rights Day without being aware of the fundamental rights of human beings . This Universal Declaration of Human Rights , drafted in 1948 , serves and empowers all human beings as well as speaks regarding the protection of their dignity without discrimination . Today , this charter is as relevant as in 1948 and is recorded as the most translated declaration of the United Nations . Historically speaking , as with the advent of globalization , the international world has observed a paradigm shift from international security to human security in order to avoid another great war . With this , the very concept of human rights came into practice . The great wars in history spoke of significant human loss due to world wars between central power states . Now , the irony is that , even with this declaration in practice , human rights are compromised , as in Gaza , Ukraine , and Kashmir . Now , the players have been changed , and instead of major powers fighting with each other , the oppressors are targeting innocents in weaker states . Now , the question arises whether that compromise of human rights in Gaza , Ukraine , and Kashmir is a failure of this declaration or not . <p> This year 's theme of the UN human rights campaign focuses on the notion " Our rights , our future , right now , " that every human deserves the safeguard of rights and a future , but the reality is quite the opposite . The painful reality is that International organizations are unable to hold people accountable for human rights violations in Gaza , Ukraine , and Kashmir . Despite creating a universal foundation , the UDHR 's implementation is contingent upon major powers ' political will and the effectiveness of international organizations like the UN . In these three areas , humanitarian considerations are frequently subordinated to geopolitical goals , allowing offenders to act without repercussions . The international community is even silent on the genocide in Gaza at the hands of Israel ; the idea of addressing their rights feels like a distant dream . It is a moral failure that no one is discussing Gaza . The rights of its citizens are a severe humanitarian crisis rather than a theoretical matter . Basic rights including access to clean water , healthcare , education , freedom of movement , and the right to live and have a future , are denied . The people of Palestine are in despair as a result of bombings and military operations that have destroyed houses , schools , and hospitals . Gaza 's suffering is presented as too complicated , too divisive , or too remote to address ; discussions about human rights frequently focus on politically expedient subjects . This selective empathy exposes a harsh reality : for many , the rights of Palestinians in Gaza are not only at the bottom of the list but are not mentioned at all . <p> Talking about figures , according to the UN Human Rights Chief , 130 Palestinians have been killed per day in Gaza over the last ten months , resulting in 40,000 Palestinian deaths . Over 65,000 people have been wounded , and many more are still missing beneath the debris . The United Nations reported that as of October 2024 , 1.9 million people had been displaced in Gaza by Israeli forces . The populace is now without access to essentials , including food , water , and medical care , due to the massive damage to critical infrastructure , including hospitals , schools , and water systems . <p> Another major battlefield is the Russia- Ukraine conflict , where human rights violations are immensely increasing . Since the beginning of the conflict , there have been serious human rights abuses of civilians on both sides . According to Human Rights Watch , August , September , and October alone witnessed hundreds of civilian deaths in 2024 ; September was one of the bloodiest months , with many people killed as well as wounded . Attacks have affected children and vital civilian infrastructure , such as power stations , in addition to a large number of older people , making the humanitarian catastrophe worse as winter draws near . There have been several reports of public personnel , activists , and civilians being targeted . These atrocities are still being documented by the UN and human rights organizations , but there is still no accountability . This November marked the 1000th day of the Russia-Ukraine conflict , which has caused unprecedented agony , with hundreds of thousands of people murdered and over 14 million displaced . <p> Now let us talk about Kashmir ; following the revocation of the region 's special status in August 2019 , human rights violations in Jammu and Kashmir have increased . According to Human Rights Watch , with more than 1,346 habeas corpus petitions filed since 2022 , arbitrary detentions under the Unlawful Activities ( Prevention ) Act ( UAPA ) and the Public Safety Act ( PSA ) have increased dramatically . Internet shutdowns , some lasting more than 500 days , disrupt daily life , and journalists are subjected to intimidation , arrests , and systematic repression . At least 27 journalists have been imprisoned under severe legislation . In addition to rising violence against minorities and government policies seen to be changing the region 's demography , extrajudicial executions , and enforced disappearances are still frequent . Laws like the Armed Forces ( Special Powers ) Act ( AFSPA ) continue unpunished despite worldwide criticism , exacerbating the humanitarian disaster in the area . There have been more than 11,000 documented incidences of sexual assault and systematic torture in Kashmir , including brutal beatings and electrocution . Access to vital services has been negatively hindered by movement restrictions , such as curfews following the 2019 status revocation . <p> In a nutshell , the " Our Rights , Our Future , Right Now " theme of 2024 highlights how vital it is to take immediate action in order to defend and promote human rights across the world , not only theoretically but practically as well . We must understand how human rights may be used to address today 's issues and guarantee that everyone 's rights are recognized and preserved , paving the way for a future marked by equality , justice , and peace . This paper calls for coordinated action to stop such injustices and is consistent with the need to address human rights breaches in war areas like Gaza , Ukraine , and Kashmir . As Martin Luther King said , " A right delayed is a right denied " . 
@@118542560 <h> Abandoning KP <p> It speaks volumes that representatives from various political parties in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa have grown exasperated with the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf ( PTI ) , a party that has nominally ruled the province for multiple terms . Despite retreating from the political chaos in Islamabad and having an opportunity to focus on the province , PTI continues to neglect pressing issues . The province faces a deteriorating law-and-order situation , a virtual mini-civil war in Parachinar and Kurram , and frequent terrorist attacks by banned organisations . Yet , PTI remains fixated on its anti-PML-N and anti-military rhetoric , which has achieved little beyond further polarising the political landscape . <p> The recent incident underscores this neglect . Leaders various national and provincial parties convened is a Multi-Party Conference to discuss critical issues such as terrorism , law and order , resource distribution , and financial rights -- problems that have plagued the people of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa for years . However , PTI , the leading party in the province , chose to abstain from this vital discussion . This is not an isolated occurrence . The party similarly skipped a multi-party conference on October 7th , which sought to establish Pakistan 's international stance on Gaza and the Israeli invasion -- an issue that transcends domestic politics and speaks to fundamental human rights . The frustration expressed by Governer Faisal Karim Kundi , is both justified and understated . PTI has consistently prioritised political theatrics over governance , rallying its workers to Islamabad for confrontational protests only to retreat when situations escalate . Meanwhile , it has utterly failed to fulfil its core responsibility : governing the province effectively . <p> This abdication of duty is unacceptable . Regardless of political grievances , no party has the right to neglect the people who elected them . Governance is not optional -- it is an obligation . PTI 's repeated refusal to address Khyber Pakhtunkhwa 's critical challenges reflects not just a failure of leadership but a betrayal of the trust placed in them by the people . 
@@118542561 <h> Apocalypse Now <p> There has never been much doubt that Israel 's actions in Palestine amount to ethnic cleansing and genocide . This reality has been evident since the Nakba of the 1940s and was further cemented by the wars of the 1960s . Israel has systematically pursued an apartheid regime with the ultimate goal of total ethnic cleansing and the eradication of Palestinians from the territories it claims . Yet , Western governments and media persist in disputing this truth , turning a blind eye to the evidence in front of them . <p> For decades , traditional mass media -- dominated by a handful of powerful corporations -- successfully obscured the extent of Israel 's crimes . Today , however , the horrific reality of genocide is being live-streamed directly to our phones . Despite this unfiltered evidence , Western powers urge us to disregard what we see , hear , and know to be true . The International Criminal Court 's rulings are ignored . Statements by United Nations agencies are dismissed . But there is only so long the West can shield Israel from accountability as the rest of the world demands justice . Recently , Amnesty International conducted a nine-month investigation under the Genocide Convention , concluding that Israel has committed -- and continues to commit -- genocide against Palestinians in Gaza . <p> The findings are harrowing . Amnesty describes Gaza as an apocalyptic scene where every Palestinian is dehumanised , journalists and aid workers are deliberately targeted , and the destruction of homes and civilian infrastructure is a deliberate strategy . These are not incidental acts of war but calculated policies of annihilation . Given Amnesty 's standing in the West as a respected advocate for human rights , one might hope that its findings would prompt a serious reckoning . Yet , Western media have largely ignored the report , burying its grim conclusions beneath silence . <p> The global outcry against this genocide is deafening , yet the West continues to ignore it -- worse , it enables it . 
@@118542596 <p> In a significant gathering at the 84th Formation Commanders Conference held at the General Headquarters ( GHQ ) in Rawalpindi , the top brass of the Pakistan Army expressed concerns about " malicious propaganda " being spread by " certain political elements " against the armed forces . The meeting , chaired by Chief of Army Staff ( COAS ) Gen Syed Asim Munir , called for strict laws to curb the misuse of freedom of expression and bring those spreading misinformation to justice . <p> The conference , attended by corps commanders , principal staff officers , and formation commanders , highlighted the dangers posed by coordinated misinformation campaigns targeting the military . According to the Inter-Services Public Relations ( ISPR ) , participants noted the pre-planned nature of this propaganda , especially following the lawful deployment of the army in Islamabad to secure key government installations and provide safety for visiting delegations . <p> The ISPR statement identified these campaigns as efforts to create divisions between the public and state institutions . The forum asserted that these attempts , allegedly abetted by external players , would not succeed . It urged the federal government to enact strict regulations to prevent the unethical use of free speech to spread lies and polarize society . <p> The forum offered prayers for the martyrs of the armed forces , law enforcement agencies , and citizens who sacrificed their lives for Pakistan 's security . It also paid tribute to law enforcement personnel who died during recent protests in Islamabad . <p> The participants conducted a comprehensive review of ongoing counterterrorism operations , reaffirming their resolve to neutralize terrorists , facilitators , and abettors . They gave special attention to countering threats from Balochistan , particularly groups like the BLA Majeed Brigade . <p> Additionally , the military expressed concern over the use of Afghan territory by terrorist groups against Pakistan , urging the Afghan Interim Government to take visible measures to prevent such activities . <p> The forum reiterated the military 's commitment to supporting socioeconomic initiatives in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan , highlighting efforts to foster economic growth and crack down on illegal activities linked to terrorism . The Army reaffirmed its role in assisting federal and provincial governments in improving the well-being of the people in these regions . <p> The participants condemned human rights violations in Indian Illegally Occupied Jammu and Kashmir ( IIOJK ) , reaffirming Pakistan 's political , diplomatic , and moral support for the Kashmiri people . Solidarity was also extended to the Palestinian people , with strong condemnation of atrocities in Gaza and a call for international legal measures to end military aggression . <p> The COAS concluded the conference by emphasizing the importance of professionalism and operational readiness . He reiterated the Army 's commitment to safeguarding Pakistan against all internal and external threats , maintaining political neutrality , and ensuring stability . He warned that the army would not tolerate attempts to incite violence for vested interests . <p> Through this conference , the military leadership sent a clear message of its dedication to national security , socioeconomic progress , and regional stability while calling for a unified effort to counter misinformation and uphold Pakistan 's sovereignty . <p> PTA Taxes Portal <p> Find PTA Taxes on All Phones on a Single Page using the PhoneWorld PTA Taxes Portal <p> Onsa is a Software Engineer and a tech blogger who focuses on providing the latest information regarding the innovations happening in the IT world . She likes reading , photography , travelling and exploring nature . <p> PhoneWorld is the most popular news and analysis website in Pakistan . It focuses on the mobile ecosystem and covers the latest news and hot topics . We offer comprehensive coverage of industry-related topics , including policy , regulations , operators , distribution , application development , devices , and academia . Readmore 
@@118561210 <h> Qatar has resumed mediation for a Gaza truce that was halted last month : source <p> After a brief break , Qatar has returned to mediating a ceasefire in the Israel-Hamas confrontation in Gaza , according to a source familiar with the negotiations . <p> Without going into detail about recent conversations with officials , the source told AFP that Qatar has now " returned to mediation " due to the delicate nature of the discussions . <p> State Department spokesperson Vedant Patel described Qatar as " an indispensable partner " when asked about attempts for a truce in Gaza on Thursday . He said , " They continue to be so ... in the context of working to find an end to this conflict . " <h> PKKH ( Pakistan Ka Khuda Hafiz ) is a respected Pakistani news website offering accurate and comprehensive coverage of politics , culture , and global affairs . With a commitment to objective reporting and insightful analysis , PKKH provides readers with a well-rounded perspective on current events . The platform encourages community engagement and leverages digital technology to reach a wide audience , contributing to informed discussions and awareness . 
@@118581755 <h> Existing global system becoming increasingly irrelevant : Ahsan <p> Islamabad : Ahsan Iqbal , Federal Minister for Planning , Development and Special Initiatives has said that the existing post-World War-II global system became increasingly irrelevant particularly its financial and multilateral structures , which fail to address the economic challenges of developing nations . <p> Mr Ahsan was addressing as chief guest the closing session of Islamabad Conclave on the theme " Pakistan and the evolving global order " organised here by Institute of Strategic Studies ( ISS ) . <p> Mr Ahsan highlighted that Pakistan 's geostrategic location at the crossroads of South Asia , Central Asia , and the Middle East offers unparalleled opportunities for regional trade , energy and connectivity . He cited the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor as a key enabler in this transformation , having already delivered critical infrastructure projects including 8,000 MW of energy and over 500 kilometres of highways . These developments position Pakistan as a pivotal hub for regional integration , trade and economic collaboration . <p> The minister outlined five strategic priorities for Pakistan to secure its place in the evolving global order . First , economic strength is fundamental to national resilience . Structural reforms , investment in human capital , and regional trade must be prioritised to reduce reliance on external aid and foster innovation-led growth . Second , the nation must embrace technological advancements to remain competitive globally . Initiatives like the National AI Policy and investments in emerging technologies including cybersecurity and green energy will be critical . Third , Pakistan must reclaim its leadership in the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation ( OIC ) , championing issues such as Palestine and Kashmir while fostering collective economic growth among Muslim nations . Fourth , regional cooperation with neighbours such as India Iran , and Afghanistan are vital for stability and prosperity . Expanding initiatives like CPEC to include Afghanistan and Central Asia can promote peace and economic integration . Finally , domestic unity remains the cornerstone of an effective foreign policy . <p> He said building bridges across ethnic , religious , and regional divides will ensure internal cohesion and a stronger international presence . He concluded by emphasising that Pakistan 's future lies in economic diplomacy , innovation and proactive policies that leverage its geostrategic strengths , ensuring its rightful place in a dynamic global landscape . emphasising the need for revitalised UN-centered multilateralism to address global crises . <p> Hina Rabbani Khar , Chairperson , NA Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs , in her keynote address said that the world is transforming and people are fighting for primacy to rule the world . The war in Gaza and its military and diplomatic support exposed the major powers , with Israel being let off with impunity . She further said that South Asia suffered due to a lack of good bilateral relationships . <p> The People 's Party leader said that Pakistan is centrally located in South Asia and collectively the region did not perform well in addressing the challenges . Countries that do not learn from their mistakes are continuously suffering and history and geography are two constants that can not be changed , she concluded . <p> Dr Moonis Ahmar from University of Karachi stated that while the world moved from a unipolar to a multipolar world , growing Sino-Russian engagement was increasingly important . Major regional fault lines lie in the Indo-Pak unresolved conflicts . Unless there was betterment of Indo-Pak relations , peace and stability will remain elusive , he said . <p> Earlier , Amina Khan , Director , ISS , in her welcome remarks stated that the regional strategic landscape fundamentally reshaped by great power competition , events in neighbouring Afghanistan as well as regional connectivity in South and Central Asia . She further said that these developments prompted Pakistan to reevaluate its diplomatic strategies and find ways to navigate its national interests while maintaining its regional influence . 
@@118581789 <p> Palestinian journalist Bisan Owda was named among the Financial Times most influential women of 2024 list for " vividly documenting their plight under Israel 's offensive " . <p> The list honoured women who exerted influence through political acts , creative endeavours , technological breakthroughs and community building . <p> Owda , 27 , was named for highlighting " every aspect of the catastrophe , reaching millions around the world on social media , filming displacement camps , hungry children and shattered towns . She rages against Israel 's ' genocide ' and does not hide her tears . " <p> In September , the journalist 's documentary It 's Bisan From Gaza and I 'm Still Alive detailing her life in Gaza won the Outstanding Hard News Feature Story -- Short Form Award at the News Emmys . <p> Owda 's victory came despite calls to rescind the nomination by Creative Community for Peace , an entertainment industry nonprofit that stands against antisemitism and cultural boycotts of Israel . <p> The group alleged that Owda had connections to the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine ( PFLP ) , which the United States and European Union have declared a terrorist group . <p> However , the News Emmys defended Owda 's nomination , stating that they could not find a link between Owda and the PFLP . <p> Owda was also named among the publication 's most influential women for winning a Peabody . She received the award " for showing bravery and persistence amid imminent danger , and for carrying a heavy journalistic burden as the entire world looks on , " the Peabody Academy said . <p> Furthermore , the Financial Times listed Indian author Arundhati Roy for her " tremendous gifts as a writer " and because " like the best public intellectuals , she helps us understand our moment in history " . <p> " In June , reports came that she could face charges under India 's draconian anti-terrorism laws . It 's a reminder that we can not take any writer 's freedom or safety for granted , no matter how renowned . " <p> Other honourees included Gisele Pelicot , whose husband drugged her and raped her , recruiting other men to rape her as well . However , by waiving her right to anonymity , Pelicot became " a heroine , an icon of feminism " . <p> " She could have had a closed trial but she chose to relive her suffering in public in the name of all victims of sexual violence , everywhere . " <p> US Vice President Kamala Harris who lost the presidential election to Republican candidate Donald Trump was named on the list because the result " does n't negate her efforts " . <p> " Harris 's candidacy changed the election , and the political debate , in 2024 and beyond . " <p> Pop icons Taylor Swift and Charli XCX were also mentioned on the list for their contributions to music and immense success in 2024 . <p> Moreover , Irish author Sally Rooney was named for being " the humane voice of a century " . 
@@118581904 <p> The Palestinian Civil Emergency Service said around 100,000 people were marooned in Jabalia , Beit Lahiya and Beit Hanoun without medical or food supplies . PHOTO : PEXELS <p> Qatar has recommitted to its role in mediating the Gaza cease-fire negotiations , as announced by Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al Thani during the opening of the 22nd Doha Forum on Saturday . <p> Qatar had suspended its mediation citing a lack of seriousness from parties involved in dialogues <p> This move comes after Qatar had suspended its mediation efforts nearly a month ago , citing a lack of " seriousness " from the parties involved in the negotiations . <p> Sheikh Mohammed emphasized that Qatar 's decision to re-enter the talks was driven by a renewed momentum in the negotiations , particularly following the election of US President Donald Trump . <p> In his address , the Qatari Prime Minister highlighted the ongoing humanitarian crisis in Gaza , stressing that its impact is spreading to neighboring Lebanon and Syria . He underscored the urgent need to make every possible effort to end the suffering of the people in Gaza . <p> The Doha Forum 2024 , which will span two days , is being held in Doha under the theme " The Inevitability of Innovation . " Over 4,500 participants from more than 150 countries , including seven heads of state , seven prime ministers , and 15 foreign ministers , are expected to attend , according to official details . <p> Mediation efforts led by the US , Egypt , and Qatar to reach a cease-fire and a prisoner swap agreement between Israel and Hamas have failed due to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's refusal to halt the ongoing conflict . <p> Israel has been conducting a genocidal war on the Gaza Strip , resulting in the deaths of more than 44,600 people , the majority of whom are women and children , since October 7 , 2023 . <p> Last month , the International Criminal Court issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant for war crimes and crimes against humanity in Gaza . <p> Israel is also facing a genocide case at the International Court of Justice for its actions in Gaza . 
@@118581906 <p> Syrian rebels have claimed control of Daraa , a city in the southwest where the civil war began following the 2011 crackdown on peaceful protests . <p> The Southern Operations Room , a coalition of opposition groups , announced on Friday that they had taken the entire city , although the Syrian Defense Ministry has not yet confirmed these claims . <p> The opposition now faces off against Assad 's forces from both the north and south , with the strategic aim of isolating the capital , Damascus . <p> Daraa holds particular significance as the birthplace of the 2011 uprising , and its capture by opposition forces marks a symbolic blow to the Assad regime . <p> In addition to Daraa , rebel forces have also seized the Nassib border crossing on the Syria-Jordan border , a key point on the M5 highway linking Aleppo and Damascus . <p> The opposition 's recent advances in the north have been equally swift . Led by former al Qaeda-affiliate Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) and other militant factions , insurgent forces have captured Aleppo and Hama in under two weeks . <p> Their next target is Homs , a strategically important city in central Syria . On Friday , opposition fighters claimed to have taken the last village on the outskirts of Homs and were closing in on the city itself . <p> If Homs falls , it would effectively split Assad 's territory in two , isolating Damascus from the coastal regions , which are crucial to the regime 's support base . <p> The opposition 's rapid progress marks a significant escalation in the civil war , which had largely stagnated in recent years due to ceasefires and foreign interventions . <p> This renewed fighting has reignited the conflict , which has in the past drawn in various regional and international powers , including Iran , Russia , Saudi Arabia , and the US . Over 300,000 civilians have been killed , and millions displaced since the war began in 2011 . <p> In the northeast , the US-backed Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) , the Syrian branch of the PKK group , have made significant gains . <p> The PKK has been waging a deadly armed campaign against Turkiye and is listed as a terrorist organisation in the US and European Union . <p> The SDF captured Deir el-Zor , a key government stronghold in the eastern desert , and also took control of the nearby Albu Kamal border crossing with Iraq . The capture of Deir el-Zor is the third major city to fall from Assad 's control in a week , following Aleppo and Hama . <p> The intensifying rebellion has prompted concern among Assad 's allies . Iran , which has been focused on tensions with Israel due to the Gaza conflict , has announced plans to send additional military equipment and advisers to Syria . A senior Iranian official stated that Tehran would also provide intelligence and satellite support to assist Assad 's forces . <p> The Syrian conflict has intensified as Russia , a key backer of Bashar al-Assad , has shifted its focus to the war in Ukraine . Russia , which intervened in Syria in 2015 , redirected its resources and attention to the Ukraine conflict starting in February 2022 . <p> The opposition 's successes have energised other regions of Syria , with local uprisings and defections increasing . <p> In the southern city of Sweida , clashes broke out between Druze militias and Syrian security forces , resulting in at least three deaths . Anti-government fighters also took control of the local police station and prison . These developments are fueling the broader effort to oust Assad . <p> While the opposition remains unified in its goal of toppling the Assad regime , internal divisions exist among the various factions . HTS , a former Al-Qaeda affiliate that has distanced itself from the organization since 2016 , has sought to present itself as a viable alternative to Assad 's rule . In his first interview since his group began its offensive in late November , HTS leader Abu Mohammed al-Golani reiterated that their ultimate aim is to build a new Syria and bring refugees back from Lebanon and Europe . <p> The rapid advances by opposition forces have raised alarms in neighboring countries . Iran , Iraq , and Syria issued a joint statement calling the opposition forces a " serious danger , " while Israel has heightened its military preparedness in response to the shifting dynamics on the ground . The US State Department has warned American citizens to leave Syria due to the increasingly volatile security situation . 
@@118582097 <h> Zionism : A Threat to Peace <p> The escalating Israeli-Palestinian conflict underscores the dangers Zionism poses to global peace and justice . Rooted in colonial ambitions , Zionism has enabled decades of dispossession , violence , and systemic oppression of Palestinians , flouting international law and UN resolutions . Expansionist policies driven by Zionist ideology serve geopolitical and economic interests rather than ethical principles . <p> The unwavering support of the United States , largely influenced by the American Israel Public Affairs Committee ( AIPAC ) , plays a central role in this crisis . AIPAC 's influence ensures U.S. political and military backing for Israel , regardless of its actions . With prominent Zionists in key positions within the Biden administration , U.S. policies continue to fuel this conflict . Additionally , the U.S. provides Israel with advanced weaponry , further exacerbating the devastation in Gaza . <p> The international community must hold the U.S. and AIPAC accountable for their role in perpetuating this crisis . Justice for Palestinians and adherence to international law are essential steps toward ending this catastrophe . 
@@118595987 <h> Last month , Trump 's Middle East envoy met with the prime ministers of Israel and Qatar to mediate a ceasefire in Gaza : report <h> According to the Financial Times , Donald Trump 's Middle East envoy has already met with top Israeli and Qatari officials in an effort to press for the release of Israeli prisoners and a truce in Gaza before the former US president returns to the White House . <p> Trump appointed New York real estate tycoon Steven Witkoff as his regional ambassador , and two people familiar with the discussions told FT that Witkoff met with Qatari Prime Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman al-Thani last month . <p> According to a diplomat briefed on the talks , he headed to Israel on November 23 to meet with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . <p> Witkoff was advocating for a ceasefire " before Trump 's inauguration so that once the Trump administration takes office it can move on to other issues , like stabilizing the region after a year filled with war and instability , " according to a diplomat briefed on the negotiations . <h> PKKH ( Pakistan Ka Khuda Hafiz ) is a respected Pakistani news website offering accurate and comprehensive coverage of politics , culture , and global affairs . With a commitment to objective reporting and insightful analysis , PKKH provides readers with a well-rounded perspective on current events . The platform encourages community engagement and leverages digital technology to reach a wide audience , contributing to informed discussions and awareness . 
@@118614803 <p> Following his ouster on Sunday , Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and his family have arrived in Russia and have been granted asylum by the Russian authorities , Russian news agencies reported citing a Kremlin source . <p> The Interfax news agency quoted the unnamed source as saying : " President Assad of Syria has arrived in Moscow . Russia has granted them ( him and his family ) asylum on humanitarian grounds . " <p> What we know so far : <p> Assad and his family arrive in Russia , are granted asylum <p> Israel seizes ' buffer zone ' in Syria <p> Syrian rebels broadcast first statements to the people <p> PM Mohammad Ghazi al-Jalali declares readiness to support transition as rebels announce they will maintain supervision of public institutions through the " former prime minister " during handove ? r <p> US President Biden says White House in touch with regional partners <p> Thousands of Homs residents celebrate in the streets <p> Iran 's embassy in Damascus stormed by rebels <p> Earlier , Two Syrian sources said there was a very high probability that Assad may have been killed in a plane crash as it was a mystery why the plane took a surprise U-turn and disappeared off the map according to data from the Flightradar website . <p> Israel has pushed tanks over the border into the buffer zone with Syria after Syrian President Bashar al-Assad was ousted earlier on Sunday after rebel forces captured the capital Damasus . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has said that he has ordered the military to " seize " a UN-patrolled buffer zone between the Israeli-occupied and Syrian-controlled Golan Heights . <p> He said a 1974 disengagement agreement with Syria " has collapsed " , so he " directed the military yesterday to seize the buffer zone and the commanding positions nearby . " <p> " We will not allow any hostile force to establish itself on our border , " he added . <p> The UN buffer zone . -- AFP <p> Earlier the Russian Foreign Ministry confirmed that Assad had left office and departed the country after being ousted by Syrian rebels , who ended the 50-year Assad dynasty in a lightning offensive that has raised fears of a new wave of instability in the Middle East . <p> In a statement , the ministry said that Assad had ordered a peaceful handover but did not say where he was now . The ministry denied Russia 's role in talks about his departure and added that Russian military bases in Syria were at a state of high alert , although there was no serious threat to them at the current time . <p> Syria 's army command notified officers that Assad 's regime had ended , a Syrian officer who was informed of the move told Reuters . <p> But the Syrian army later said it was continuing operations against " terrorist groups " in the towns of Hama and Homs and Deraa countryside . <p> Dozens of Syrians entered Assad 's luxurious Damascus home after it was looted on Sunday , an AFP correspondent said , following the fall of the capital to rebel forces . <p> Women , children and men could be seen inspecting the six-storey home and its large garden , with the entrance to the residence burnt down and the rooms completely empty , save some furniture and a portrait of Assad thrown on the floor . <p> Assad , who had crushed all forms of dissent , flew out of Damascus for an unknown destination earlier on Sunday , two senior army officers told Reuters , as rebels said they had entered the capital with no sign of army deployments . <p> " We celebrate with the Syrian people the news of freeing our prisoners and releasing their chains and announcing the end of the era of injustice in Sednaya prison , " the rebels said , referring to a large military prison on the outskirts of Damascus where the Syrian government detained thousands . <p> Thousands in cars and on foot congregated at a main square in Damascus waving and chanting " Freedom " from a half-century of Assad family rule , witnesses said . <p> People with Syrian opposition flags celebrate after Syrian rebels announced that they have ousted President Bashar al-Assad , at Bar Elias , Bekaa Governorate , Lebanon on December 8. -- Reuters <p> The dramatic collapse also marks a seismic moment for the Middle East , dealing a massive blow to Russia and Iran , which have lost a key ally at the heart of the region and creating more uncertainty as the Gaza offensive rages . <p> The pace of events has stunned Arab capitals and raised fears of a new wave of regional instability . <p> It marks a turning point for Syria , shattered by more than 13 years of war which has turned cities to rubble , killed hundreds of thousands of people , and forced millions abroad as refugees . <p> Stabilising western areas of Syria captured in the rebels ' advance will be key . Western governments , which have shunned the Assad-led state for years , must decide how to deal with a new administration in which a globally designated terrorist group -- Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) -- looks set to have influence . <p> HTS , which spearheaded the rebel advances across western Syria , was formerly an al Qaeda affiliate known as the Nusra Front until its leader Abu Mohammed al-Golani , severed ties with the global jihadist movement in 2016 . <p> " The real question is how orderly will this transition be , and it seems quite clear that Golani is very eager for it to be an orderly one , " said Joshua Landis , a Syria expert and Director of the Center for Middle East Studies at the University of Oklahoma . <p> Golani will not want a repeat of the chaos that swept Iraq after US-led forces toppled Saddam Hussein in 2003 . " They are going to have to rebuild ... they will need Europe and the US to lift sanctions , " Landis said . <p> HTS is Syria 's strongest rebel group and some Syrians remain fearful it will impose draconian religious rule or instigate reprisals . <p> A Syrian Air plane took off from Damascus airport around the time the capital was reported to have been taken by rebels , according to data from the Flightradar website . <p> The aircraft initially flew towards Syria 's coastal region , a stronghold of Assad 's Alawite sect , but then made an abrupt U-turn and flew in the opposite direction for a few minutes before disappearing off the map . <p> Reuters could not immediately ascertain who was on board . <p> " It disappeared off the radar , possibly the transponder was switched off , but I believe the bigger probability is that the aircraft was taken down ... , " said one Syrian source without elaborating . <p> As Syrians expressed joy , Prime Minister Mohammad Ghazi al-Jalali said the country should have free elections so Syrians can choose who they want . <p> But that would require a smooth transition in a country with complex competing interests , from fighters to groups with links to the United States , Russia and Turkey . <p> Jalali also said he had been in contact with rebel commander Abu Mohammed al-Golani to discuss managing the current transitional period , marking a notable development in efforts to shape Syria 's political future . <p> Jordan affirmed on Sunday the importance of preserving the stability and security of Syria , the state news agency reported . <p> US President Joe Biden and his team were monitoring the " extraordinary events in Syria " and were in touch with regional partners , the White House said . <p> The Russian Foreign Ministry said Assad left office and departed the country after ordering a peaceful handover of power . <p> In a statement , the ministry did not say where Assad was now and said Russia had not taken part in the talks about his departure . It added that Russia 's military bases in Syria had been put on a state of high alert , but that there was no serious threat to them at the current time . <p> Syria 's civil war , which erupted in 2011 as an uprising against Assad 's rule , dragged in big outside powers , created space for militants to plot attacks around the world and sent millions of refugees into neighbouring states . <p> The frontlines of Syria 's complex civil war were dormant for years . Then fighters once affiliated with Al Qaeda suddenly burst into action , posing the biggest challenge to Assad , who had survived years of gruelling war and international isolation with the help of Russia , Iran and Lebanon 's Hezbollah . <p> But Assad 's allies were focused on and weakened by other crises , leaving Assad at the mercy of his opponents with an army that was not prepared to defend him . <p> Israel , which has severely weakened Hezbollah in Lebanon and Hamas in Gaza , will likely celebrate the fall of Assad , another of Iran 's key regional allies . But the prospects of a hardline religious group ruling Syria will likely raise concerns . <p> Thousands of Homs residents poured onto the streets after the army withdrew from the central city , dancing and chanting " Assad is gone , Homs is free " and " Long live Syria and down with Bashar al-Assad " . <p> Men hold flags as people celebrate , after Syrian rebels announced that they have ousted President Bashar al-Assad , in Qamishli , Syria on December 8. -- Reuters <p> Rebels fired into the air in celebration , and youths tore down posters of the Syrian president , whose territorial control has collapsed in a dizzying week-long retreat by the military . <p> The fall of Homs gave the insurgents control over Syria 's strategic heartland and a key highway crossroads , severing Damascus from the coastal region that is the stronghold of Assad 's Alawite sect and where his Russian allies have a naval base and air base . <p> Homs ' capture is also a powerful symbol of the rebel movement 's dramatic comeback . Swathes of Homs were destroyed by gruelling siege warfare between the rebels and the army years ago . The fighting ground down the insurgents , who were forced out . <p> Rebels freed thousands of detainees from the city prison . Security forces left in haste after burning their documents . <p> The head of Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces Mazloum Abdi said on Sunday on X : " We are witnessing historic moments in Syria as the authoritarian regime in Damascus falls . This change presents an opportunity to build a new Syria founded on democracy and justice , ensuring the rights of all Syrians . " <h> Iranian embassy stormed in Damascus <p> Iran 's embassy in the Syrian capital was stormed by rebels on Sunday following their capture of Damascus and the fall of Iran-allied Bashar al-Assad , Iranian state TV reported . <p> " It is said that the Iranian embassy was stormed alongside nearby stores by an armed group different from the group now controlling most of Syria , " Iranian state TV said , referring to Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) which spearheaded the rebel advances across western Syria . <p> Footage from inside the embassy 's premises was shared by Saudi Arabia 's al-Arabiya channel , showing that assailants had rummaged through furniture and documents inside the building and damaged some windows . Reuters could not verify the videos . <p> People load items looted from the Iranian embassy onto trucks in the Syrian capital Damascus on December 8. -- AFP <p> Iran 's foreign ministry spokesperson Esmaeil Baghaei said on Sunday that Iranian diplomats had vacated the embassy in the early morning , prior to any assault . <p> Iran 's state TV said HTS had guaranteed there would be no disturbance to the Sayeda Zeinab and Sayeda Ruqqaya shrines in Damascus . <p> Iran 's semi-official Tasnim news agency said on Sunday that all Iranian servants of the shrines returned to Iran prior to the capture of Damascus by rebels . <p> Header image : Syrian President Bashar Al-Assad attends the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation ( OIC ) summit in Riyadh in this file photo from November 2023. -- Reuters/File 
@@118614818 <p> AGAINST the backdrop of serious setbacks to the Iran-led so-called Axis of Resistance and destructive divisions in the Muslim world , Amnesty International has delivered a damning indictment of genocide against Israel . <p> Predictably , the Amnesty report that diligently documents evidence of Israel 's genocide in Gaza , drew cries of antisemitism from the US , Germany and other Western allies of Israel who have enabled mass murder by funding , arming and supporting both materially and diplomatically the Zionist state . <p> Given the unconditional support from Western powers that continues , despite the massive humanitarian crisis in Gaza , Israel did not lift its foot off the accelerator and stories and haunting images of hundreds of victims of air strikes and military brutality continued to emerge . <p> As the so-called Abraham Accords suggested , the Muslim states of the region are now active pa ? ? r ? ? ? ? ? ticipants in cementing Israel 's occupation of Pa ? ? ? ? l ? estine and seem content with subjugation and even annihilation of the Palestinians , some of the most brilliant and resilient people in the Middle East . <p> While the Iran-led alliance including Syria , Yemen 's Houthis and Lebanon 's Hezbollah offered some resistance and did whatever little they could , the overwhelming Western military and technological superiority on Israel 's side is proving to be decisive . <p> Having dealt massive blows to Hezbollah , the only force in the Middle East that has stood up to Israel 's aggression over the past 20 years , by decapitating its leadership and limiting its decision-making and communications capacity , the attention has now turned to Syria , which is the major supply route to Lebanon and Hezbollah . <p> The speed with which the Syrian Arab Army of Syria 's brutal dictator Bashar al-Assad has collapsed and conceded ground to HTS ( Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ) fighters led by former Al Qaeda commander Abu Mohammed al-Jolani , is shocking to say the least . <p> The opening of a new front in the Middle East has drawn attention away from the ongoing genocide in Gaza . <p> But Jolani who has now trimmed his beard and started to sport even blazers instead of his usual baggy trousers and military fatigues and headgear in typical Al Qaeda style , has gone on record ( quoted by Times of Israel ) as saying his group " is open to friendship with everyone in the region including Israel " . <p> " We do n't have enemies other than the Assad regime , Hezbollah and Iran . What Israel did ag ? ? a ? inst Hezbollah in Lebanon helped us a great deal . Now we are taking care of the rest , " he ad ? ? d ? ed , in a reference to his group 's attempts to capture Homs in order to cut off one of the major Hez ? bollah supply routes and also sever the link bet ? w ? e ? ? ? en Damascus and the western coastal area aro ? u ? ? nd the port of Latakia , seen as an Assad stronghold . <p> At the same time as HTS advances in the northwest , which began with the fall of Aleppo , the CIA-backed Kurdish forces are moving southwards from their northeastern bastions not far from the Turkish border . <p> Some Damascus-based journalists and commentators , who are demonstrably pro-Assad regime , are posting on social media trying to downplay the debacles of the Syrian Arab Army and describing the news as part of the CIA-Mossad psywar . <p> But they have no explanation for the lightning assault by the Al Qaeda affiliate HTS and its capture within a few days of Aleppo and Hama and for how its fighters are knocking on the gates of Homs which , if taken , could deal a deadly blow to Damascus and render it vulnerable . Their argument of a strategic withdrawal to draw the enemy into a trap does not ring true . <p> Therefore , today 's Astana format talks between Russia , Iran and Turkiye on the sidelines of the Doha Forum assume great importance . Will Turkiye agree to rein in some of the groups it supports in Syria is a question that may be answered . Equally , the level of Russian and Iranian support to the Assad regime will also determine the outcome of the war . <p> A decade and a half ago when IS and other extremist groups threatened to overrun Syria , Russia offered solid material support , and its air force flew an untold number of ground support missions . It also moved its air defence missile batteries to Syria so Israel 's air force did not enjoy superiority over the Syrian skies to support the extremist groups . <p> But on the ground , the deployment of Hezbollah and other Iran-allied fighters helped turn the tide in favour of Damascus . Now with a weakened Hezbollah and an HTS that seems to enjoy the support of powerful quarters in the West , Israel and elsewhere , it is not clear how the Assad regime can be saved . <p> What the opening of this new front in the Middle East has also done is to draw attention away from the ongoing genocide in Gaza where heavy bombs , artillery , armed drones and starvation are being used in concert to clear the Strip of Palestinians , particularly in the north where Israel has determined great real estate development potential and also offshore oil prospects . <p> As the Amnesty report articulately presents evidence of a genocide , and even as Israel continues its mass murder undeterred , thanks to unconditional Western material support , the conflict in Syria is somehow pushing out Israeli occupation forces ' atrocities in Gaza and Tel Aviv 's ongoing expansionism in the West Bank from the headlines . <p> The talks in Doha will give an indication as to whether Russia is now so bogged down in Ukraine that it is unable to come to the aid of one of its oldest allies in the Middle East . It will also become clear whether Iran 's words were just words , after Israel claimed its last round of air strikes inflicted severe damage on Tehran 's defence capability , or if Iran still has what it takes to defend Syria and defy Israel . <p> More than the degradation of this so-called Axis of Resistance 's military capacity , the Palestinian cause has been damaged irretrievably by the duplicitous , despotic leaders of the Muslim world , most of whom have defied their public 's opinion . They may have said the right things but have done exactly the opposite . 
@@118614840 <p> CAIRO/DOHA : Twenty-six people , including six children and five women , were killed in Israeli strikes on central Gaza 's Nuseirat refugee camp on Saturday . <p> Gaza 's civil defence said the Indonesian Hospital came under Israeli attack in Gaza 's Beit Lahiya . <p> Elsewhere in the city , 29 people were reported killed in a series of air strikes on and near the Kamal Adwan Hospital . <p> According to Gaza 's health ministry , Israel targeted an ambulance at the hospital , and a rights group said the Israeli army used human shields in an attempt to evacuate patients and medical staff . <p> Meanwhile , Hamas released a video of an Israeli prisoner held in Gaza Strip since October last year . <p> In the undated , three-and-a-half-minute video , the prisoner can be seen saying in Hebrew that he had been in captivity for more than 420 days and called for public pressure on the Israeli government to secure the release of captives . <p> On the other hand , Qatar voiced hope of fresh momentum in efforts to reach a ceasefire deal between Israel and Hamas . <p> Qatar 's Prime Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al Thani said his country was engaging with the incoming Trump administration on Gaza after sensing fresh momentum for ceasefire talks following the US election . <p> Sheikh Mohammed said momentum had returned to talks aimed at securing a truce and prisoner exchange deal in Gaza following the election of Donald Trump as US president . <p> " We have sensed , after the election , that the momentum is coming back , " the Qatari premier told the Doha Forum for political dialogue . <p> He spoke as a source close to the Hamas delegation in the talks said a new round of negotiations will " most likely " begin in the coming week " . <p> ' No disagreement with US ' <p> Sheikh Mohammed said that while there were " some differences " in the approach to an agreement by the outgoing and incoming US administrations , " we did n't see or recognise any disagreement on the goal itself to end the war " . <p> The Gulf emirate , along with the United States and Egypt , had been involved in months of unsuccessful negotiations for a Gaza truce and prisoner release . <p> But last month , Doha announced it had put its mediation on hold , saying it would resume when Hamas and Israel showed " willingness and seriousness " . <p> Sheikh Mohammed said there had been " a lot of encouragement from the incoming administration in order to achieve a deal , even before the president comes to the office " , adding this had affected Qatar 's decision to get talks " back on track " over the past two weeks . <p> " We hope to get things done as soon as possible . We hope that the willingness of the parties to engage in good faith continues , " he said . <p> The Hamas source said : " Based on contacts with the mediators , we expect a new round of negotiations to begin in Cairo , most likely this week , to discuss ideas and proposals regarding a ceasefire and a prisoner exchange . " <p> The US president-elect warned this week on social media of unspecified massive repercussions if the Israeli prisoners were not released by the time he takes office next month . <p> Donald Trump has vowed his staunch support for Israel and promised to rein back on occasional criticism voiced by outgoing President Joe Biden 's administration . <p> Qatar 's premier dismissed the prospect of his country facing greater pressure over the status of its political bureau for Hamas . <p> Sheikh Mohammed called the Hamas office , which the Gulf state has hosted since 2012 with the blessing of the United States , a " platform to convene between the different parties " . <p> Qatar was not " expected to enforce solutions " on Palestinians , he added . 
@@118614866 <h> The ICC warrant that split the West <p> For more than a year , Gaza has been the target of an unrelenting military campaign , widely described by experts as a genocide playing out in full view of the world . Amnesty International , a prominent human rights group , has now joined the growing chorus of critics , formally alleging that Israel has committed unlawful acts during its offensive , causing unprecedented devastation and loss for Palestinians in the besieged enclave . <p> The London-based rights group 's chargesheet , detailed in a sweeping 296-page report , lands as another mounting legal challenge unfolds at the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) . In a striking development last month , the court issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , his former defense minister , Yoav Gallant , and Hamas military commander Diab Ibrahim al-Masri , also known as Deif , accusing them of potential responsibility for war crimes and crimes against humanity . The charges , swiftly rejected by Israeli officials as unfounded , have reignited intense global debates about accountability and the West 's willingness to uphold the principles of international law . <p> Based in The Hague and established in 2002 to prosecute the world 's most serious crimes , the ICC has long faced a significant limitation -- it lacks the power to enforce its own warrants . Instead , it depends on its 124 member states , including all 27 EU nations , to apprehend suspects -- a reliance that has highlighted the challenges of delivering justice on the global stage . While the West largely aligns on the need to arrest Russian President Vladimir Putin under a comparable warrant , several governments have begun to waver in their initial support for the ICC 's efforts to pursue charges against Netanyahu . <p> France , for instance , has argued that the charges against Netanyahu lack validity because Israel is not a member of the court . A similar tone of hesitation has emerged from Germany and Italy , aligning Europe 's three most populous nations in a noncommittal stance . Hungary , by contrast , stands alone in the European Union , openly declaring its refusal to comply with the court 's orders -- a departure from the more cautious ambiguity of its counterparts . <p> Although several European governments , including Norway , Ireland , Spain , and to some extent Belgium , have voiced support for the ICC 's principles , the bloc 's most influential powers have stopped short of pledging to enforce its warrants . Across the Atlantic , the United States has taken a more overtly oppositional stance . Over the past year alone , it has not only vetoed attempts at the United Nations calling for a ceasefire in Gaza but also " fundamentally rejected " the court 's decision , with some lawmakers even proposing sanctions against the tribunal . This hesitance , legal and human rights experts contend , risks promoting a culture of impunity . <p> Last month , Dutch Prime Minister Dick Schoof muddied the waters further by suggesting that Netanyahu -- the first Western-allied leader to face accusations of war crimes and crimes against humanity by the court -- could visit the Netherlands without being arrested , despite the charges . His remarks appeared to temper the unequivocal stance of his foreign minister , Caspar Veldkamp , who earlier assured parliament that the Netherlands fully complies with the court 's warrant . The mixed messaging , experts argue , not only underscores a broader reluctance among Western nations to uphold the reach and credibility of international law but also exposes a double standard -- one for the West 's traditional allies and another for its adversaries . <p> This inconsistency persists even as the conflict in Gaza displays the hallmarks of genocide -- a calculated effort to obliterate a national , ethnic , religious , or racial group , as defined under international law . With more than 45,000 dead , nearly two million displaced , and entire cities reduced to rubble , there is little room to argue it is anything but that . <p> To unpack the implications of the International Criminal Court 's arrest warrant and the challenges posed by its lack of enforcement , The Express Tribune conducted a no-holds-barred interview with William Schabas , a leading legal scholar and author of the seminal book Genocide in International Law : The Crime of Crimes . Here is what Schabas , a professor of international law at Middlesex University in the UK , offered as his unvarnished perspective on the matter : <p> ET : The International Criminal Court has issued arrest warrants for the Israeli Prime Minister , a former defence minister , and Hamas ' current military leader . What are your thoughts on the evidence underpinning these warrants ? <p> WS : Historically , the International Criminal Court made arrest warrant applications public , with both the prosecutor 's application and the judges ' rulings typically accessible . However , that practice has changed without an explanation from the court . <p> This makes it difficult to fully assess all the evidence . What is available to the public is based on the charges levied . The charges against Israeli leaders include starvation and attacks on civilian objects , both of which have substantial supporting evidence in the public domain , such as reports from NGOs and media outlets like Al Jazeera . Clearly , there is ample evidence to support these claims . <p> As for the evidence against the Hamas leader , it concerns actions like the taking of hostages -- an issue that is well-documented and not particularly controversial in terms of evidence . To issue an arrest warrant , the court must establish reasonable grounds to believe the crimes occurred . This is a relatively low evidentiary threshold , but it is the necessary starting point for prosecution . I am confident that the prosecutor has more than enough evidence to meet this requirement . <p> ET : According to Article 27 of the Rome Statute , all individuals are considered equal before the court . However , since Israel is not a party to the Statute , could this provide any basis for exclusion or an excuse to avoid prosecution or trial ? <p> WS : The jurisdiction of the court , in principle , applies to crimes committed on the territory of a state that is a member of the court . It 's not controversial that states have the authority to prosecute crimes committed on their territory -- that 's a fundamental aspect of sovereignty . What happens with the International Criminal Court is that it shares the sovereignty states have over their own territory . So , if Israel has committed crimes on Palestinian territory , then , in principle , Palestine has the authority to prosecute those crimes . <p> I do n't see any objection or problem in that regard . Article 27 specifically addresses the immunity of heads of state , as heads of state and government typically enjoy immunity under international law from other tribunals , except their own . Article 27 removes that immunity within the context of the court . The question then arises whether Article 27 applies to a state that is not a member of the court . Member states have agreed that their heads of state can not invoke immunity before the court , but this does not automatically extend to non-member states like Israel . <p> However , the court has made a series of decisions , including one by the appeals chamber -- the court 's highest authority -- that states the prohibition on immunity for heads of state also applies to those from non-member states . This precedent was first applied to President Omar al-Bashir of Sudan , then to President Vladimir Putin of Russia , and now to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . Most recently , the prosecutor submitted an application regarding General Min Aung Hlaing of Myanmar . This principle now clearly extends to heads of state or government from states that have not joined the Rome Statute . <p> WS : France has raised a question about this and invoked Article 98 of the Statute , which addresses situations where a state is asked to proceed with the arrest of someone who could benefit from immunity . If you 'd asked me this six years ago , I would have said that France had a strong argument . <p> However , the judges have ruled differently more than once , including very recently , in late October . There was a decision addressing the same argument raised by Mongolia , which declined to arrest Putin when he visited at the end of August . France is entitled to have its own opinion on this issue , but as a member of the court , it must also respect the conclusions reached by the judges . <p> ET : What does the arrest warrant itself mean for Israel and Netanyahu personally ? <p> WS : The arrest warrant can not be enforced without Israel 's cooperation , unless Netanyahu and Yoav Gallant travel to countries willing to arrest them , which seems unlikely . You asked about France , but I do n't think they would even go there . France is not a dictatorship ; it 's a democracy with an independent justice system . <p> While a bureaucrat in the French Foreign Ministry may say they wo n't arrest Netanyahu , it is ultimately a judge who would make that decision . Netanyahu , I believe , would not feel confident that he would be protected if he were to go there . <p> It will be a real challenge for the court to arrest these two men . There 's also a political impact , as no country wants its head of government labelled a wanted war criminal . This has already isolated Putin and will further isolate Netanyahu . It contributes to the growing perception that Israel has become a pariah state in the world . <p> ET : Do you think it will have any impact on the conflict in Gaza ? <p> WS : This is difficult to say . To the extent that Israel is increasingly isolated , it may have some impact . The problem with Israel is that , even if isolated by the vast majority of countries in the world , it remains effectively a dependency of the most powerful military and economic power , the United States . Without a change in the United States ' position , I 'm rather pessimistic about what can happen in Israel and Palestine . <p> ET : What would happen if a majority of Western states , many of which are founding members of the ICC , find reasons not to comply with its arrest orders ? <p> WS : What will happen is that it will ultimately cause great harm to the International Criminal Court , which these states themselves have worked hard to build . They have invested heavily , both financially and politically , in the court , which has a budget of over 200 million euros a year , most of which comes from European states . <p> These countries are very committed to it . However , the success of the ICC ultimately lies in its reputation and prestige as a truly impartial and independent judicial institution . A little over a year ago , before the latest Gaza conflict , it seemed that the court 's prosecutor was completely indifferent to the situation in Palestine , focusing instead on Ukraine , which appeared to be driven by the European states ' agenda . For a time , he did n't seem to take any action on Palestine , but more recently , he has done so , which is a positive step and has helped enhance the court 's image as an independent and impartial institution . <p> However , if the court is seen as just a political tool , and is tainted by the perception that it is not impartial and independent , it would be devastating for the institution . If the rest of the world sees it this way , they will not support the court , and it will become ineffective and mediocre . <p> ET : If we reach a point where the majority of states find reasons not to comply , as they have suggested or indicated in their statements , will this signify the end of the International Court 's reputation or its ability to function as a system of international justice ? <p> WS : We have a lot of international institutions that lack credibility , and I think the ICC will just join them . I do n't believe it will mark the end of the institution itself . <p> It has a large staff , a significant budget , and considerable infrastructure , so I do n't see it simply shutting down or ceasing to exist . However , we wo n't see new countries joining it . Some countries may leave , and it certainly wo n't live up to the promise that inspired its creation and the widespread support it initially received from many parts of the world , not just Europe . <p> One of the surprising aspects of the International Criminal Court at its inception was the strong support from African states , which became its largest bloc . They joined because they respected and trusted it , appreciating an organization that , by design , was somewhat independent of the dominance of major powers , particularly the European ones . <p> But if that trust erodes , these states will lose interest in the ICC . Some might withdraw , and it certainly wo n't expand . The biggest gap in the ICC 's membership today is in Asia . While some Asian states are members , the continent overall has the weakest level of support for the court . That wo n't improve as long as countries in Asia perceive the ICC as a tool of Western European states that fails to act independently and impartially . <p> ET : How do these warrants compare to those issued for Omar al-Bashir and Vladimir Putin ? What similarities or differences stand out to you ? <p> WS : I do n't think they 're very different . Bashir was actually charged with genocide , although subsequent charges brought by the court against leaders close to Bashir in Sudan did n't include the genocide charge . I 'm not sure whether they will persist with it . The charges against Netanyahu , in particular , and against others like Gallant , are very , very serious and , in many respects , much more severe than those against Putin . <p> Putin is charged with abducting children , but , as I understand , there 's no allegation -- again , we have n't seen the arrest warrant -- that the children were subjected to physical or sexual abuse . None of them have been killed . By contrast , Netanyahu has left a bloody trail behind him . <p> So , I believe the nature of the charges against Netanyahu is much more dire and serious than what Putin has been accused of . <p> ET : What will it take for these cases ever to go to trial ? <p> WS : The International Criminal Court does n't prosecute people in absentia , so they have to be brought into custody . If they 're not , there 's very little that can happen . There is , however , a thesis by the prosecutor that a kind of preliminary hearing could take place in absentia . <p> This has never been done before , but the prosecutor is planning to attempt it with Joseph Kony , the leader of the Lord 's Resistance Army in northern Uganda . It was initially scheduled to start in October of this year but has been postponed for several months . I 'm not sure if it will actually take place . <p> The prosecutor 's ambition might be to conduct such a hearing to stigmatize the accused , raise the standard of proof to something higher -- such as substantial grounds to believe the crime was committed , rather than reasonable grounds to believe . This would be a relatively short process , and since it 's done in absentia , there would be no real defense . It 's not as though the defense would call witnesses or present a full case . The prosecutor might pursue this approach , but beyond that , not much else can happen . <p> ET : The West showed unanimous support for Russian President Vladimir Putin 's arrest warrant , despite over 11,000 deaths in Ukraine , far fewer than those in Gaza . Yet , there is significant division , as seen in different capitals , over Netanyahu 's case . What are your thoughts on this selective approach ? <p> WS : Well , I do n't like the selective approach . I do n't like the double standards in international justice . I think it 's very harmful to both international justice and the institution itself . The court has distorted its priorities , placing more emphasis on Ukraine , which , in an objective sense , is not as dire as the situation in Palestine , where human suffering is far greater . <p> The people of Ukraine are not living under the same conditions as the people of Gaza . This is certain . Anyone who watches even a little bit of media will know that . Yet , the situation in Gaza has been treated as of secondary importance by the prosecutor of the court . <p> So , yes , the court is afflicted with double standards . Until very recently , all of its attention was focused exclusively on Central Africa . That 's still the case in terms of its trials . We have yet to see a trial of anyone from outside Africa . All of those actually prosecuted have been Africans , and most of them have been Muslims . <p> ET : What are the political implications of not complying with the ICC arrest warrant ? <p> WS : The political implications are that the institution will suffer , not the political reputations of Western European states . Everyone knows they have double standards , that they 're two-faced and hypocritical , and they have no reputation to lose in that regard . They 're simply being loyal to Israel for political reasons . <p> That said , there are some cracks . Some Western European governments , like Norway , Spain , Ireland , and Belgium to some extent , have taken different positions . What I 'd like to see in the long term is a situation similar to South Africa . In the 1960s , apartheid South Africa was largely backed by Western European states , many of which still had colonies or had recently been involved in colonialism . South Africa received substantial support , even though it was isolated among the countries of the Global South in the 1970s and ' 80s . <p> However , support for South Africa faded over time . The International Court of Justice issued a judgment in 1971 on their occupation of Namibia , but it took 19 more years for Namibia to gain independence from South African rule and apartheid . <p> I would like to think something similar could happen with Israel . The current situation could provoke new efforts to establish an independent , sovereign Palestinian state , which would transform the region 's geography and politics . However , without U.S. commitment , there 's only so much that can be done . <p> Honestly , the Western European countries may be called powers , but right now , they 're largely aligned with the United States and subordinate to it . Until they 're ready to break with the U.S. , I do n't see much progress . Even if they do , we 'll still need to confront the United States on this issue . <p> ET : When we look at the ICC warrant , it seems entirely against Netanyahu . Are there any loopholes in the warrant or in the entire process that may help the Israeli leader 's case ? <p> WS : The loopholes -- Well , the charge of directing attacks against the civilian population is typically difficult to establish because of the argument that these civilians lost their protection as civilian objects due to military activity . Israel 's standard explanation for nearly every use of force in Gaza is that Palestinian noncombatants are being used as human shields , and that their targets are all military . <p> This would obviously be challenged . Many people do n't believe this argument , but it 's one they will invoke , and we 'll have to see what the evidence shows . The prosecutor has limited the charges to two specific incidents . While we do n't have access to the details , it seems the prosecutor is confident they can prove that these incidents were not military-related . <p> Another charge relates to starvation , including the disruption of humanitarian assistance . If I were the defense lawyer , I 'd be looking for ways to challenge these aspects . Ultimately , this will play out in court with the available evidence . One difficulty in war cases is the ' fog of war ' , which makes it hard to establish what 's happening with targeting in specific cases . This has been a challenge in every international crime prosecution . <p> What is more straightforward to establish are acts of persecution against a population in an occupied territory under your control . I think the prosecutor could have focused on the settlements in the West Bank , which have long been a point of vulnerability for Israel in the ICC . But , as of now , the charges relate to the conflict in Gaza . Prosecuting Israeli leaders may be successful , and charges related to the settlement of the West Bank could also be necessary . <p> ET : As a legal expert with significant experience in International Law , do you think there are any loopholes or weaknesses in the prosecution that you could identify based on your knowledge of the case ? <p> WS : Well , again , we have n't seen the evidence they have . We know that the prosecutor emphasized assembling a panel of experts when applying for the warrants . These experts included highly distinguished international lawyers , most of them British , and one American . I have great respect for those individuals , and I believe there 's likely a strong case there , but we have n't heard the defence . This is always the challenge . On paper , the prosecution seems to have a very strong case . From what I 've seen , the evidence against Israel , in a broad sense , appears strong and compelling . However , as with any trial , we need to hear the defence . <p> ET : Following the ICC warrants , the Israeli president labelled them as anti-Semitic , and Prime Minister Netanyahu has made similar claims . It appears that Jewish identity is being weaponized as a defense against criticism of their actions . Do you believe this is anti-Semitic ? <p> WS : Well , I think you 're absolutely right about Jewish identity being weaponized . I come from a Jewish background myself , and I deeply resent how it is being exploited in this context . Netanyahu has claimed that he is being persecuted , comparing his situation to that of Alfred Dreyfus , a French artillery officer of Jewish descent who was convicted of treason in 1894 and sentenced to life in prison after a controversial trial at the turn of the 20th century . <p> However , there is a significant difference . Dreyfus was innocent -- he was convicted based on forged documents and false testimony . That is not the case with Netanyahu . This idea of framing everything as a result of anti-Semitism has become something of a mantra in Israel . While that is what they claim , I do n't believe it -- it 's not anti-Semitism . <p> ET : Personal immunity will end for Netanyahu if he leaves office . Could this be a reason for him to extend the conflict ? <p> WS : Personal immunity is certainly relevant to Netanyahu due to Israel 's laws . As you know , he faces legal issues within Israel , and as head of government , he has some degree of protection while in office . However , the threat of prosecution by the International Criminal Court does n't fundamentally change , as long as he remains in Israel , even if he is no longer in office . <p> Many have suggested -- and I 'm not the first to say this -- that a significant part of the war is driven by Netanyahu 's personal ambitions to stay out of jail and remain in power . That may be true to some extent , but it 's important to note that not all the wrongs committed by Israel in the past year can be attributed solely to Netanyahu . He is part of a broader state system with significant support , including from factions that are even more extreme and violent than he is . <p> ET : Let 's assume Netanyahu is out of office , and the International Court 's warrant remains active . Do you expect Israel to initiate any proceedings against him or attempt to hand him over for trial ? Do you think Israel would take any action in this regard ? <p> WS : Within Israel , unrelated to the conflict , no , I do n't think so . There would need to be a very dramatic shift in the political landscape for that to happen . 
@@118614871 <h> UN stands paralysed as the world burns <p> Emerged from the charred remains of bombed cities and the cries of a world torn asunder in 1945 , the United Nations today appears increasingly toothless as unprecedented headwinds buffet global peace -- but no crisis seems to merit more than a yawn in the international room that watches the spectacle with a deafening silence . <p> Hands of the mighty few continue to wield the weapon of veto to strangle peace efforts at the divided global table -- a chilling redux of its predecessor , the League of Nations . <p> From attacks on Lebanon 's sovereignty to the ongoing genocide in Gaza and the smouldering crisis in Ukraine , the UN remains paralysed and all its efforts to enforce peace seem to fall victim to greater security architectures . <p> With more than 55 conflicts raging across the globe , including genocidal assaults , the reforms in the UN are already a few thousand lives too late . <p> If any opportunity for meaningful reform ever existed , it vanished almost immediately . A flicker of hope , seen at the second birth of the existing status quo , was almost immediately extinguished . <p> " A new chapter in the history of the United Nations has begun , " proclaimed Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali as the Cold War came to an end , heralding what he described as an " extraordinary opportunity " for reform and progress . <p> However , in an ironic twist , the opportunity seems to have slipped through the cracks . Today , as wars rage and threats multiply , the global political mood has inexplicably turned inward . <p> Soon after the end of the Cold War , civil wars in the Balkans , Africa , and the 1994 Rwandan genocide exposed the UN 's impotence , drawing sharp criticism while exposing a system unable to respond effectively to the crises of the day . <p> Historically , attempts to reform the organisation at the highest levels have largely faltered , exposing layers of internal corruption . Under pressure from the Clinton administration , NATO bypassed the UN Security Council to bomb Kosovo , setting a dangerous precedent for unilateral humanitarian interventions . <p> In the early 2000s , the George W. Bush administration embraced pre-emptive war , casting aside the core principles upon which the UN was founded . <p> Earlier , under Ronald Reagan , the US distanced itself from the International Court of Justice , and later , it snubbed the new International Criminal Court ( ICC ) while weakening global arms control frameworks . <p> Today , Gaza stands as a symbol of devastation -- a site of destruction , starvation , and unspeakable atrocities . The suffering of its people once again raises urgent questions about international justice and exposes the double standards that have become painfully apparent . Israeli missiles , tanks , and airstrikes relentlessly batter the homes of helpless Gazans , serving as a glaring example of the failing global order . <p> Despite this , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's campaign of destruction , which blatantly violates international law , has somehow managed to avoid the scrutiny typically reserved for the actions of other regimes across the world . <p> Rights groups , including UN rapporteurs , have warned that international law is not obsolete , but rather systematically obstructed . Despite the existence of mechanisms to prevent and punish atrocities such as genocide , the UN 's responses have been sluggish and inconsistent . <p> The system remains hamstrung by the influence of powerful states . The ICC , for instance , has faced intense pressure , particularly in its investigations into Palestine , with progress moving at a painfully slow pace . <p> On December 2 , ICC President Tomoko Akane warned that attacks on the tribunal -- largely originating from Washington and Moscow -- were " jeopardising its very existence . " She pointed to " coercive measures , threats , pressure , and acts of sabotage " against the court , though without naming the US and Russia specifically . <p> However , observers note that in contrast , cases like Ukraine have seen swift action , which goes on to reveal the blatant double standards at play . <p> Reforms <p> Meanwhile , recently , regional powers like Brazil , Germany , India , Japan , Nigeria , and South Africa have pushed for an expansion of the Security Council or permanent seats for themselves . <p> Some have proposed that France relinquish its permanent seat to the European Union following Brexit , especially after France and Germany shared the presidency of the Security Council for two months in 2019 . <p> In 2021 , Britain endorsed Germany 's bid for a permanent seat . Additionally , in January 2024 , UN Secretary-General Ant ? nio Guterres expressed hope for permanent African representation , citing support from all five permanent members of the Security Council . <p> However , calls for reform have yet to be answered . Many countries are instead focusing on strengthening their diplomatic influence through other international coalitions . <p> The debate over Security Council expansion often centres on the balance between legitimacy and effectiveness . In 2013 , Saudi Arabia made the rare decision to turn down a non-permanent Security Council seat , stating that it would not serve unless reforms were made to the institution . <p> Critics of the current system , including advocates of the Responsibility to Protect ( R2P ) , argue that the P5 's veto power undermines the Security Council 's ability to act on global crises . For instance , Russia 's vetoes over Security Council action on Ukraine have led some to call for Russia 's removal from the P5 . <p> The criticism had already been growing before the invasion ; UN human rights chief Zeid Ra'ad al-Hussein ( 2014 -- 2018 ) repeatedly warned that the veto system granted undue power to the P5 , putting the UN 's future at risk without reform . <p> " Africa wants the veto abolished , " said Sierra Leonean President Julius Maada Bio in August 2024 . " However , if UN member states wish to retain the veto , it must be extended to all new permanent members as a matter of justice . " <p> However , reluctance to use force is not limited to the P5 . Aspirants like Brazil , Germany , and India have generally opposed interventions , viewing them as violations of sovereignty . <p> While R2P proponents criticize the Security Council for its lack of political will , others question the UN 's ability to manage conflict , pointing to the peacekeeping failures in Rwanda , Somalia , and the former Yugoslavia during the 1990s . <p> Recently , the UN 's handling of the Gaza Strip has come under scrutiny and has reignited debate for reforms , with critics claiming that its delayed and diluted response to calls for a cease-fire has been woefully insufficient . <p> The truth is , most experts agree , that the system is n't broken -- it is functioning to protect vested interests . <p> While the Council passes resolutions on a variety of global issues , it often finds itself paralysed when the interests of the major powers are at stake . In cases like Russia 's invasion of Ukraine or Israel 's actions in Gaza , the veto power effectively stymies any meaningful response . <p> One of the most glaring issues with the Security Council is the lack of accountability for its decisions . <p> Resolutions may be binding on member states , but they carry little weight unless adopted under Chapter 7 of the UN Charter , which allows for coercive measures such as military intervention or sanctions . Even then , the Council often fails to follow through on its own resolutions . <p> There is also no legal recourse for states or individuals who are subjected to sanctions or other punitive measures imposed by the Council . <p> Reform proposals have been on the table for decades , with two main areas of focus : the composition of the Council and the veto power of the permanent members . The current system , based on the power dynamics of the post-World War II era , is widely considered outdated . However , efforts to amend the UN Charter to address these issues have been repeatedly thwarted by the very powers that benefit from the status quo . <p> France and other states have called for voluntary self-restraint from the permanent members when it comes to using their veto power in cases involving genocide or war crimes , but these calls have largely fallen on deaf ears . <p> The need for reform has never been more urgent . Today , there are 55 armed conflicts worldwide -- the highest number since World War II . <p> The UN , which was established to prevent such atrocities , must undergo major changes to address these challenges . The veto power remains a significant roadblock to global peace and security , with decisions often serving national interests rather than the common good . <p> Proposals from the Lichtenstein Initiative suggest that countries using their veto power explain their actions to the General Assembly , and that vetoes be restricted in cases involving mass atrocities . The reforms are essential if the UN is to regain its credibility and fulfil its original mandate to safeguard peace and justice across the globe . <p> ' Special rights ' <p> In his book , ' No Enchanted Palace ' , Mark Mazower observes : " In other words , the UN , even more than the League , was to be run by the great powers and far less confidence was reposed in international law as a set of norms independent from , and standing above , power politics . " <p> On the contrary , international law now implicitly recognised " special rights " ( and special obligations ) for the " great peace-loving states " . <p> In his thought-provoking book , Mazower argues that the United Nations , much like its predecessor the League of Nations , did not arise from a purely liberal vision of universal rights . Instead , it was a product of Victorian-era " imperial internationalism , " an ideological and organisational extension of the British Empire . <p> He explores the provocative argument through brief portraits of several League of Nations figures who reappeared during the drafting of the UN Charter , most notably Jan Smuts , a South African who championed white racial superiority , and Sir Alfred Zimmern , the leading British proponent of liberal internationalism . Both were part of a broader elite group seeking to " shore up a liberal world order that would be compatible with empire and Anglo-American hegemony " . <p> According to Mazower , Smuts saw the League as a way to ensure " white leadership of the world , " promote a " global civilizing mission , " and support British imperial dominance . His reappearance in the 1940s with a draft preamble for the future UN suggests , for Mazower , that the UN was shaped by the same imperial mindset . <p> Though the UN Charter ultimately affirmed racial equality , and similar ideals were echoed in the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights . <p> When the UN first convened at its New York home in October 1946 , the veto was already baked into the Security Council 's structure . The five permanent members were handed this privilege on a silver platter due to their prominence after the Second World War , with the hope that they would act in unison to uphold international peace and security . <p> Fast forward to today , and the picture tells a different story . Israel 's war on Gaza rages on without UN intervention . Resolutions brought to the Security Council are frequently dead on arrival , vetoed by the United States -- just as it has consistently torpedoed prior resolutions sanctioning Israel for its illegal occupation of Palestinian territory . 
@@118614877 <p> This aerial picture shows a bullet-riddled portrait of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad adorning Hama 's municipality building after it was defaced following the capture of the city by anti government fighters on December 6 . PHOTO:AFP <p> Syrian rebels declared they had ousted President Bashar al-Assad after seizing control of Damascus on Sunday , forcing him to flee and ending his family 's decades of autocratic rule after more than 13 years of civil war . <p> In a seismic moment for the Middle East , the rebels also dealt a major blow to the influence of Russia and Iran in Syria in the heart of the region - allies who had propped up Assad during critical periods in the war but were distracted by other crises recently . <p> The rebels said they had entered the capital with no sign of army deployments . Thousands of people in cars and on foot congregated at a main square in Damascus waving and chanting " Freedom " from a half century of Assad family rule , witnesses said . <p> People were seen walking inside the Al-Rawda Presidential Palace , with some leaving carrying furniture from inside . <p> " We celebrate with the Syrian people the news of freeing our prisoners and releasing their chains , " the rebels said . <p> Leading rebel commander Abu Mohammed al-Golani said there was no room for turning back . <p> " The future is ours , " he said in a statement read on Syria 's state TV after his forces took over Damascus . <p> The pace of events stunned Arab capitals and raised concerns about a new wave of instability in a region already in turmoil following the spread of conflict after the Hamas-led attack on Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , and the ensuing Gaza war . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Assad 's fall was a direct result of blows that Israel has dealt to Iran and its ally Hezbollah . <p> French President Emmanuel Macron said " the barbaric state has fallen " and paid tribute to the Syrian people . <p> Daunting task ahead <p> When the celebrations fade , Syria 's new leaders will face the daunting task of trying to deliver stability to a diverse country with competing factions that will need billions of dollars in aid and investments to rebuild . <p> Syria 's long civil war , which erupted in 2011 as an uprising against Assad 's rule , turned cities to rubble and killed hundreds of thousands of people . <p> Stakeholders range from Turkey to the United States to Islamists to Kurds . <p> One possible challenge could be a resurgence of Islamic State which imposed a reign of terror in large swathes of Syria and Iraq and directed external operations during its prime . <p> President Joe Biden 's administration was monitoring developments but has not adjusted the positioning of the roughly 900 troops in Syria so far , U.S. officials told Reuters . <p> Iran , whose elite Revolutionary Guards have faced deadly Israeli strikes in Syria , gave a measured response . Its foreign ministry said Syria 's fate is the sole responsibility of the Syrian people and should be pursued without foreign imposition or destructive intervention . <p> Lebanese-based Hezbollah , which provided crucial support to Assad for years , withdrew all of its forces from Syria on Saturday as rebel factions approached Damascus , two Lebanese security sources told Reuters on Sunday . <p> Assad , who had not spoken in public since the sudden rebel advance a week ago , flew out of Damascus for an unknown destination earlier on Sunday , two senior army officers told Reuters . <p> His whereabouts now - and those of his wife Asma and their two children - were unknown . The Russian Foreign Ministry said Assad had left office and departed the country after giving orders for a peaceful handover of power . <p> The Syrian rebel coalition said it was continuing work to complete the transfer of power in the country to a transitional governing body with full executive powers . <p> " The great Syrian revolution has moved from the stage of struggle to overthrow the Assad regime to the struggle to build a Syria together that befits the sacrifices of its people , " it added in a statement . <p> Throughout the civil war , security forces held hundreds of thousands of people seized into detention camps where international human rights organisations say torture was universal practice . Families were often told nothing of their loved-ones ' fate . <p> Bewildered and elated prisoners poured out of Syrian jails on Sunday , shouting with joy as they emerged from one of the world 's most notorious detention systems . <p> Newly freed prisoners ran through the Damascus streets holding up the fingers of both hands to show how many years they had been in prison , asking passers-by what had happened , not immediately understanding that Assad had fallen . <p> Prime Minister Mohammad Ghazi al-Jalali called for free elections in a country where Assad 's opponents faced barrel bombs . <p> Jalali also said he had been in contact with Golani to discuss managing the transitional period , marking a notable development in efforts to shape Syria 's political future . <p> The collapse of Assad 's rule followed a shift in the balance of power in the Middle East after many leaders of Hezbollah , a lynchpin of Assad 's battlefield force , were killed by Israel over the past two months . <p> Russia , a staunch Assad ally , intervened decisively in 2015 to help Assad during Syria 's civil war . But it has been tied down by the Ukraine war . <p> US to maintain presence <p> The Syrian civil war dragged in a string of outside powers , created space for jihadist militants to plot attacks around the world and sent millions of refugees into neighbouring states . <p> The frontlines were dormant for years . Then Islamists who had once been affiliated with Al Qaeda suddenly burst into action in late November . <p> Western governments , which have shunned the Assad-led state for years , must now decide how to deal with a new administration in which a globally designated terrorist group - Golani 's Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) - looks set to have influence . <p> A former US military commander of American forces in the Middle East , retired Marine General Frank McKenzie , said he was concerned about the way ahead for Syria . <p> " I wish I could be more hopeful that it will mean good news for the Syrian people ... We could have an Islamic state arise there which will have profound negative implications across the region . That is possible , " McKenzie told ABC News . <p> The United States will continue to maintain its presence in eastern Syria and will take measures necessary to prevent a resurgence of the Islamic State , Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for the Middle East Daniel Shapiro said at a conference in Manama on Sunday . <p> Turkish Foreign Minister Hakan Fidan said " terrorist organisations " must not be allowed to take advantage of the situation in Syria and called for caution . <p> HTS , which spearheaded the rebel advances across western Syria , was formerly an al Qaeda affiliate until its leader Golani severed ties with the global jihadist movement in 2016 . <p> " The real question is how orderly will this transition be , and it seems quite clear that Golani is very eager for it to be an orderly one , " said Joshua Landis , a Syria expert and Director of the Center for Middle East Studies at the University of Oklahoma . <p> " They are going to have to rebuild ... they will need Europe and the U.S. to lift sanctions , " Landis added . <p> HTS is Syria 's strongest rebel group and some Syrians remain fearful it will impose draconian Islamist rule or instigate reprisals . <p> Countries like the United Arab Emirates and Egypt , both close U.S. allies , see Islamist militant groups as an existential threat , so HTS may face resistance from the regional heavyweights . <p> Israel said it had deployed forces in the U.N.-monitored buffer zone with Syria and at a number of points necessary for defence . <p> Suspected Israeli strikes hit Mazzeh district of Damascus , one Lebanese and one Syrian security source said on Sunday . <p> Jets believed to be Israeli bombed the Khalkhala air base in southern Syria that was evacuated by the Syrian army overnight , two regional security sources told Reuters . <p> The Israeli government had no immediate comment on the reported strikes , which one of the sources said appeared to be aimed at preventing weapons falling into the hands of radical Islamist groups . 
@@118614878 <p> Israel has watched the rapid overthrow of the government of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad with a mixture of hope and concern as officials weigh the consequences of one of the most significant strategic shifts in the Middle East in years . <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu hailed the ousting of Assad as an " historic day " that followed the blows delivered by Israel against Assad 's supporters Iran and Hezbollah in Lebanon that had created a chain reaction throughout the region . <p> " This of course creates new , very important opportunities for the State of Israel . But it is also not without risks , " he said on a visit to the border area on Sunday . <p> Israel has pushed tanks over the border into the buffer zone with Syria to prevent a spillover from the turmoil there , but has declared its intention of staying out of the conflict engulfing its neighbour . <p> Netanyahu said Israel was working on a policy of " good neighbourliness " and would " extend a hand of peace " to Druze , Kurds , Christians and Muslims . <p> " We will closely follow developments . We will do what is necessary to protect our border and protect our security , " he said in a filmed statement . <p> The lightning advance of Syrian rebel forces since their seizure of Aleppo last week has thrown further turmoil into a region already reeling from the shocks of the war in Gaza and Israel 's subsequent campaign against the Iranian-backed Hezbollah movement in Lebanon . <p> " At the moment , if we are n't attacked we will just retain the current situation , " Israel 's Consul General in New York Ofir Akunis told Reuters . <p> " Nobody should think that this threat of the Shiite-Iranian axis of evil has been eliminated entirely , there are changes but we need everyone ... to be even more vigilant about this , " said Akunis . <p> Overnight , the Israeli military said it was not interfering with internal events in Syria but would " operate as long as necessary in order to preserve the buffer zone and defend Israel and its civilians . " <p> The rapid collapse of the Syrian government has presented Israel with a mix of problems and opportunity , said Dina Lisnyansky , a specialist in regional politics at Tel Aviv University . <p> Iran 's inability to protect its long-time ally Assad has underlined the weakness laid bare by Israel 's devastating campaign against Hezbollah , which left the long-time Iranian proxy reeling , its long-feared missile arsenal largely destroyed and most of its top leadership dead . <p> But the advance of a disparate group of rebel forces with roots in the Islamist ideology of Al Qaeda risks re-igniting chaos in Syria and creating a new security threat on Israel 's borders . <p> " It really depends on what happens next in Syria , " Lisnyansky said . " We need to know if it goes to the peaceful side of events or perhaps whether a new civil war could occur in Syria , which would of course endanger our borders , " she said . 
@@118614879 <p> Israeli air attacks in the Gaza Strip have killed at least 16 Palestinians in separate incidents , including five members of one family , who died when their home in a displaced persons camp in Deir el-Balah was struck early on Sunday morning , according to Al Jazeera . <p> " We woke up to a loud explosion in the middle of the night , " said Mahmoud Fayad , an eyewitness . " We ran to the loud screams and found many civilians killed ; an entire family , man , wife and their children . " <p> The attack , which also left dozens injured , highlights the vulnerability of displaced civilians living in camps in the region . Al Jazeera 's Hani Mahmoud reported that many people near the site were injured in the assault . <p> Later on Sunday , at least 11 people were killed in an Israeli airstrike on a residential house in the al-Bureij camp , further escalating the toll of the ongoing violence . <p> Palestinian officials accuse Israel of pursuing a strategy to force evacuations and clear areas of the enclave , creating a buffer zone in the northern region . However , the Israeli military denies these claims , stating that its operations are aimed at combating Hamas . <p> The Gaza Health Ministry reported that more than 44,708 Palestinians have been killed and 106,050 injured in the ongoing conflict , which has raged since October of last year . <p> " The situation is extremely dangerous , " said Hussam Abu Safia , the hospital 's director . " We have patients in the intensive care unit and others awaiting surgeries . Access to the operating rooms is only possible after restoring electricity and oxygen supply . " The hospital is treating 112 wounded individuals , with six in the intensive care unit , he added . 
@@118615005 <h> Lebanon Ceasefire <h> The ceasefire is tentative , and its terms are decidedly lopsided . <p> This past week , Israeli , Lebanese , and US leaders were busy congratulating themselves on announcing the completion of an Israeli-Lebanese ceasefire agreement . Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu boasted about Israel 's victory and its status as the unquestioned dominant force throughout the Middle East . Hezbollah declared a " divine victory " greater than their 2006 triumph . Meanwhile , US leaders commended themselves for their leadership in a settlement they hoped would " advance broader peace and prosperity in the region . " <p> To say I 'm sceptical would be an understatement . At least the Lebanese will have some respite from Israel 's relentless bombings , and Israeli forces will begin withdrawing from southern Lebanon . Nevertheless , I 'm not celebrating . Too many have died , too much bitterness has been sown , no lessons have been learned , and too many issues remain unresolved . In announcing the ceasefire , President Biden said that Israelis and Lebanese could return home -- except that , for hundreds of thousands of Lebanese , their homes no longer exist . Further , the ceasefire is tentative , and its terms are decidedly lopsided . <p> Once again , as in 2006 , Hezbollah miscalculated . Demonstrating solidarity with the Palestinians in Gaza may have seemed honourable , but they provoked a foe whose ruthlessness knows no limits and faces no restraints . Israel responded with complete impunity , violating all norms of international law and civilised behaviour . <p> Now , Hezbollah has been weakened , forced to relocate north of the Litani River , and with less claim as a feared deterrent against Israeli dominance . Their ability to use their armed presence as a Praetorian guard protecting the ancien r ? gime in Lebanon is unclear . <p> While Hezbollah certainly plays a role in Iran 's regional strategy , it is also a movement born of internal Lebanese problems . Hezbollah represents an aggrieved Shi'a community that has long felt disadvantaged in Lebanese affairs . They suffered the consequences of Israel 's war with the PLO , with its villages occupied by the Israeli military for decades . When Israel was forced to end its occupation in 2000 , Hezbollah 's stature grew . <p> Most estimates place the Shi'a community as Lebanon 's largest sectarian group . They harbour a deep sense of disenfranchisement and are unwilling , especially after what they have recently endured , to accept a subordinate status . <p> While some say Lebanon must " get it together , " elect a new president , and establish a government , that is not nearly enough . Ending the corrupt , outmoded sectarian system is essential . Whether one blames Hezbollah for this war or not , without real reform , the inequities of Lebanon 's sectarian divisions will cause tensions and disruptions , continuing to risk the country 's recovery . <p> Netanyahu 's boasting about his great successes in defying world opinion and defeating Israel 's foes was both frightening and disturbing . He further threatened to continue using Israel 's unmatched military might to ensure Israel 's security and dominance . But here too , a reckoning must be addressed . <p> As we 've learned from past wars , there are wounds that do not heal . Israel may be feared , but it is hated more than ever . Palestinians , many Lebanese , and Arabs in general are now more hostile to Israel than before . <p> Netanyahu and the majority of Israelis have learned no lessons at all . Their blind self-righteousness , emboldened by US support , has metastasised into a cancerous sense of impunity . Their genocidal campaign in Gaza , hell-bent on the destruction of Hamas , continues , but another goal is increasingly clear : to liquidate the Palestinian presence in most of Gaza and establish a permanent regime there . In the West Bank and East Jerusalem , the Israelis are also determined to subdue , annex , and expand their settlement presence . <p> Despite Israel 's military dominance , Israelis are not safer , falling victim daily to resistance born of anger at their brutal occupation policies . They will not be secure or achieve broader regional acceptance without change . And given the far-right 's hold over Israeli politics , change is not forthcoming . <p> Lebanese and Israeli leadership failures are distressing , but US policymakers ' actions are worse , given their significant responsibility for what has transpired . For decades , the US turned a blind eye to Israeli settlement expansion , policies that sabotaged the peace process , contributed to the collapse of Palestinian governance and Hamas ' rise , the subjugation of the Palestinian people , and the empowerment of Israel 's extremist right wing . Instead of accepting responsibility for this mess , we have armed Israel to the teeth and covered for its crimes in international fora . <p> The " deal " we negotiated between Israel and Lebanon addresses none of the conflict 's root causes and gives Israel a freer hand to pursue its goal of a " pax Israelica , " which will produce greater conflict , not the hoped-for broader regional peace . <p> Dr. James J. ZogbyThe writer is the President of Arab American Institute . 
@@118628073 <h> Reception marks Independence Day of Finland <p> Finland 's Ambassador to Pakistan , Hannu Ripatti Friday evening hosted a reception to celebrate 107th Independence Day of his country and to reaffirm his nation 's belief in democracy , equality , fairness and rule of law . <p> Ambassador of the European Union ( EU ) Dr Riina Kionka , ambassadors and diplomats of the EU and other nations attended the reception and greeted Mr and MrsRipatti , Deputy Head of Mission ( DHM ) Anssi Kullberg and their fellow nationals on the auspicious occasion . <p> The reception turned out to be a well-attended yet a ' non-VIP ' affair as there was no minister ' Chief Guest ' nor there were long , tedious speeches that one usually happens to listen to on such occasions . <p> Earlier , national anthems of Finland and Pakistan were played and a cake was also cut to mark the National Day of Finland . <p> The venue was decorated with the colours of Finland , its flag and that of the EU reflecting the lively , rich spirit of the European and the Finnish people . <p> In his brief speech , Ambassador Ripatti said Finland and Pakistan enjoyed cordial relations which could further expand in diverse sectors . <p> The Finnish envoy also mentioned Ukraine and Gaza in his speech and called for end to aggression and bloodshed . <p> It may be mentioned here that Finland ambassador held a productive meeting last month with Minister for Commerce Jam Kamal Khan and discussed with him strategies for expanding trade ties and exploring untapped areas for collaboration . <p> Both sides agreed on tapping unutilized resources and expanding partnership in areas such as education , information technology , textile , health , construction , and social development . <p> According to a senior government official present at the reception , there is a possibility of a government-level delegation from Finland visiting Pakistan which could mark a milestone for both countries with expectations to solidify agreements and increase investment opportunities . <p> One of the key initiatives of the Pak-Finland cooperation is establishment of the National Compliance Council ( NCC ) , which seeks to ensure that local products meet international standards , the official said adding the NCC would work with the provincial and the federal bodies to ' sensitize ' them on the importance of compliance , positioning Pakistani exports to be competitive in international markets . The NCC will also play a crucial role in aligning Pakistan 's products with Europe 's quality standards , he said . 
@@118650587 <p> " Today I was honoured to accept the Doha Forum Award alongside brave journalists like Wael al-Dahdouh , Christina Assi , and my courageous media colleagues who have reported from conflict zones including Lebanon , Ukraine and Afghanistan . These reporters have stopped at nothing to tell the truth , " Azaiza wrote on Instagram . <p> " It 's not only about you as a journalist . It 's your life because you 're not an international journalist who does your mission and leave and you get paid and that 's it . No . It 's your home . What 's happening is happening to your family , to your friends , " Azaiza said during the ceremony . <p> " Gaza is a besieged territory but today it is completely destroyed . It is under genocide , " al-Dahdouh said during the panel . <p> " As a journalist , your mind is always controlled by the idea that you are undertaking a journalistic mission . However , at the same time , you are conducting your duty because , at the end of the day , there are millions of people who are waiting for your story to understand what is happening . " 
@@118650796 <h> Nearly 1 million displaced Gazans face extreme winter cold : UN <p> Nearly one million displaced Palestinians in war-torn Gaza are at risk of extreme cold and rain this winter , the UN agency for Palestine refugees ( UNRWA ) warned on Sunday . <p> " Displaced people in Gaza need protection from the rain and cold . Only around 23% of this need has been met , leaving 945,000 people at risk of exposure this winter , " the UN agency said in a statement . <p> " Aid is urgently required to address the overwhelming needs as the crisis deepens . " <p> UNRWA said that Palestinian civilians in the central city of Deir al-Balah and across the enclave " search through the rubble of their destroyed homes , trying to salvage what little remains after an Israeli airstrike . " <p> Israel has launched a genocidal war on the Gaza Strip that has killed more than 44,700 people , mostly women and children , since Oct. 7 , 2023 . <p> Last month , the International Criminal Court issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant for war crimes and crimes against humanity in Gaza . <p> Israel also faces a genocide case at the International Court of Justice for its war on Gaza . 
@@118657033 <p> He urges to stem arms flows to conflicts in Haiti , Sudan , Gaza and Ukraine . <p> GENEVA : The UN human rights chief called on Monday for accountability for perpetrators of abuse under toppled Syrian president Bashar al-Assad , but said there was a " huge chance " for an inclusive political transition , and that early signs were promising . <p> Syrians woke on Monday to a hopeful if uncertain future , after rebels seized the capital Damascus and Assad fled to Russia , following 13 years of civil war and more than 50 years of brutal Assad family rule . <p> " We will need to make sure that those who are responsible for these violations , be it on the side of the previous government , the president and others , but also all others who are responsible for violations -- that they are brought to account , " UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Volker Turk told a Geneva press briefing , calling for meticulous preservation of evidence . <p> " ( Accountability ) is going to be a key piece of the transition , because we can not afford that we go back to those periods where indeed impunity reigns . " <p> Turk 's office pointed to the disappearance of more than 100,000 people during the war alone , and the use of torture and chemical weapons . <p> Syria is not currently a member of the International Criminal Court , although a new government could join it . <p> Russia blocked past attempts at the UN Security Council to refer Syria to the court . <p> Turk said there was a " huge chance " for inclusive dialogue on the political transition in Syria 's new era . <p> " I hope that within this current environment ... there will be this inclusive , very inclusive dialogue , " he said . <p> " There is a huge chance for this to happen . And what we have seen initially is indeed cooperation , " he added , citing coordination between Assad 's prime minister , Mohammed Jalali , and rebel leader Abu Mohammed al-Golani . <p> At the same press conference , called to mark the anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948 , Turk urged states to stem arms flows to conflicts such as those in Haiti , Sudan , Gaza and Ukraine . <p> " We need to insist that it is not OK , and not legal , to use anti-personnel mines in Ukraine , it is not OK to provide them for use there , " he said , in an apparent reference to US President Joe Biden 's approval of the export of such mines last month . <p> Turk said at least 184 people had been killed in gang violence in Haiti 's capital at the weekend , bringing this year 's total death toll to a " staggering " 5,000. 
@@118670300 <h> Trump family to bask in crypto industry 's euphoria at Gulf bitcoin gathering <p> President-elect Donald Trump 's cryptocurrency venture takes part in the largest bitcoin conference in the Gulf region . <p> Several key figures , including Eric Trump and billionaire Steve Witkoff , are attending the Bitcoin MENA conference in Abu Dhabi . Eric Trump is scheduled to deliver a keynote address and participate in a private " whale-only " session for major investors . <p> Steve Witkoff , co-founder of World Liberty Financial and White House envoy for the Middle East , will also address the exclusive session . The event , expected to host over 6,000 attendees , highlights World Liberty Financial 's prominence , with Donald Trump serving as its chief advocate and holding significant stakes in the venture . <p> Justin Sun , a blockchain founder and key investor in World Liberty Financial , also participates in the conference . Sun had purchased $30 million in WLF tokens after Trump 's election victory , becoming the largest investor . <p> Steve Witkoff , commenting on hostages held in Gaza , emphasized the importance of their release before Trump 's inauguration . He reiterated Trump 's warning , " They better be released , " and added , " It 's not a pretty day if they 're not released . " <p> More than 44,700 people have been killed in the Gaza conflict since October 2023 , with hostages still held by Hamas militants . Negotiations and rescue efforts have freed some , but many remain captive , including Israeli-American dual nationals . <p> The bitcoin conference continues to focus on key crypto developments as Trump 's team addresses regional issues . <p> Our monitoring team diligently searches the vast expanse of the web to carefully handpick and distill top-tier business and economic news stories and articles , presenting them to you in a concise and informative manner . 
@@118694460 <h> Day of rights <h> Amnesty International terms atrocities in Gaza genocide , yet no strong nation has stepped forward to halt them <p> By Editorial Board <p> December 10 , 2024 <p> A man seen freeing pigeons in front of a rubble in this undated image . -- Reuters/File <p> Today , as world leaders deliver grand speeches to commemorate Human Rights Day , they will pledge allegiance to the principles of dignity , freedom , and equality outlined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights ( UDHR ) . Yet , their lofty words will ring hollow against the grim realities of a world that routinely betrays these values . Nowhere is this betrayal more glaring than in Gaza , where more than 400 days of violence and destruction have unfolded under the world 's watchful and indifferent eye . Amnesty International has termed the atrocities in Gaza a genocide , yet no powerful nation has stepped forward to halt the slaughter . This indifference reveals a devastating truth : international solidarity is a myth when it comes to marginalised people or regions . And , until we confront the systemic failures that allow such horrors to persist , these commemorations remain empty gestures . <p> But the shame of failing human rights is not limited to global powers . Pakistan 's record is equally dismal . Ranked 133 out of 180 countries by Freedom House in 2023 , Pakistan remains a nation where human rights are often seen as privileges for a select few . The past year has witnessed unrelenting violence against religious minorities , suppression of political dissent , and the continued suffering of women , who remain vulnerable to systemic neglect and abuse . Draconian practices , such as detaining family members of fugitives to exert pressure , remain entrenched , while enforced disappearances haunt the country . The media , far from being a free pillar of democracy , is frequently targeted , silencing voices that dare to critique the powerful . Meanwhile , the plight of marginalised groups is often met with apathy . <p> The tragic loss of lives in stampedes at ration centres underscores the dire state of social welfare , while horrifying incidents , such as children beaten to death for minor mistakes in domestic servitude , highlight the pervasive dehumanisation of vulnerable groups . These are not just failures of governance but also a reflection of a society where intolerance thrives and human rights are subordinated to personal biases and systemic inequities . Change must come from both state and society . Policymakers must prioritise the protection of all citizens , regardless of their background , and address the root causes of economic and social disparities . Basic amenities -- clean water , gas , electricity , security -- should be guaranteed to every citizen , not hoarded by the privileged few . Political leaders must abandon their self-serving rivalries and work towards building a society where dignity and equality are non-negotiable rights , not lofty ideals . Human rights are the foundation of humanity 's survival . On this Human Rights Day , let us commit to more than words . 
@@118694510 <p> When Khalid Riaz turns off a dusty , single-lane road into a village in Guzara district , half an hour south of the bustling heart of Herat city in western Afghanistan , he is immediately greeted by a group of children . <p> Some barefoot and sucking their thumbs , the children surround the car as Riaz begins unloading bags of flour and rice from the trunk of a blue sedan . With the help of a fellow volunteer from a nonprofit group called Aseel , Riaz carries the bags over uneven ground , walking carefully through a maze-like jumble of homes built of sand-coloured mud . <p> Looking down at his papers to check if he 's arrived at the correct house , Riaz lowers the food packages onto the fuchsia carpet of a local couple 's living room . That day 's delivery -- an emergency donation of everyday necessities like grains and cooking oil -- will hopefully be enough for the couple and their three young children to survive for the next few months . <p> Riaz sits down to greet the couple . But before he can speak , a dozen women and children begin crowding the doorway . The mother tries to wave them away but they refuse to leave . <p> " Please let me register . I have nine children , " says one of the women , waving a handful of loose papers in Riaz 's face . The air is stifling as more women arrive , all talking over each other as they plead for help . <p> " I 'm sorry , we only have two deliveries today , " mumbles Riaz , the 25-year-old volunteer , shrinking into the corner of the room . <p> Through Aseel , a US nonprofit started by an Afghan entrepreneur , individuals can donate around $100 for a single food package to be sent to a family in Afghanistan . But there are always far more people requiring aid than individuals donating . <p> Reuters travelled around Herat city and surrounding villages in October , accompanying non-government volunteers delivering food and visiting nutrition clinics run by aid organisations like World Vision . <p> Everywhere , there was a sense of desperation : Mothers begging aid workers for food . Young children working physically exhausting jobs on the street to feed their families . And doctors treating malnourished children and worrying about what winter will bring in remote areas where people burn cardboard boxes to keep warm . <p> Afghanistan under the Taliban demonstrates the vital role non-government organisations play in keeping people alive in countries stricken by hunger . Like Aseel , these groups face arduous challenges in delivering aid , especially in conflict-scarred countries where they often navigate harsh government restrictions . <p> Afghanistan poses special difficulties : It has been shut out of development aid , because not a single foreign state officially recognizes the Taliban administration . Its treatment of women is impeding its path to recognition , Western diplomats say . Afghanistan 's leaders have said they respect women 's rights in accordance with their interpretation of Islamic law . <p> An Afghan villager employed on a project run by nonprofit organisation World Vision digs a canal near a riverbed in Khwaja Shahab village , Herat , Afghanistan , October 20 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> These NGOs are part of a sprawling global network geared to detect and fight hunger and famine . Reuters is examining how this system is faring at a time when food crises have put hundreds of millions of people at risk of disease and death in places like Sudan , Gaza , Ethiopia and Afghanistan . <p> More than a third of Afghans are enduring dangerous levels of food deprivation . The world 's leading hunger monitor , the Integrated Food Security Phase Classification ( IPC ) , said in a May report that while it saw " marginal improvements " in the food situation , an estimated 14.2 million people were experiencing high levels of acute food insecurity . <p> NGOs are required to comply with the law , said Abdul Rahman Habib , spokesperson for the economy ministry , responding to questions on Taliban rules about women who work in these organisations . But " there are no obstacles to the humanitarian aid activities of NGOs . " Aid , he added , should n't be used as " a tool to achieve political objectives . " <h> ' Real need ' <p> For two decades , Afghanistan was mired in a war that ended abruptly in August 2021 when the United States made its chaotic withdrawal . Today , the country is isolated by sanctions that affect the banking system and other measures . Economic output plunged 27 per cent between 2020 and 2023 . <p> Billions of dollars in foreign aid for development and security were also cut after the US left . That money had formed the backbone of Afghanistan 's government finances . United Nations humanitarian funding is declining , too : As of December , only 45pc of the Afghanistan plan drawn up by the UN and aid organisations for 2024 had been funded , leaving a $1.7 bn shortfall . <p> Other needy places face shortfalls as well . Afghanistan is competing for donor attention as wars in Gaza , Ukraine and Sudan draw humanitarian aid . <p> Workers unload goods from a cart at a wholesale store in Herat , Afghanistan October 22 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> Heading back to his car after dropping off the food package at the couple 's home , Aseel 's Riaz is followed by the crowd of women trying to get his attention . <p> " Please , please help us , " begs one woman dressed in a dark purple abaya . <p> At least the women are n't trying to snatch the aid by force , Riaz says . Earlier this year , a few months after an earthquake had levelled homes and killed hundreds in Herat province in late 2023 , angry villagers pelted Riaz with rocks when he told them to wait in an orderly line to receive their aid . It was chaotic , he says , but he can understand why the villagers acted this way . <p> " It 's coming from a place of real need , " he says . <p> Riaz was born only a few years before the US invaded Afghanistan in 2001 . For most of his young life , venturing outside his hometown in Herat , one of Afghanistan 's largest cities , was unthinkably dangerous . He remembers his family worrying every time his late father , an engineer , travelled to remote regions of Afghanistan to build water treatment projects during the war . <p> The end of the war in 2021 has made it safer for Afghans like Riaz to travel around their own country . But many of his old professors and classmates have left , pursuing education and job opportunities abroad . <p> " It 's a fact that no one wants to abandon their home country , " Riaz says . For those who emigrate , " it 's a choice between bad and worse " -- staying in Afghanistan with all its problems or abandoning home and family . <p> Riaz , who studied urban planning at Herat University , dreams of pursuing a master 's degree and eventually creating a nonprofit focused on improving Afghanistan 's polluted environment . To further his education and find people who can help him with his venture , he says he may need to leave , too . <p> Before the Taliban returned , Riaz had taught himself how to play classical guitar and the piano using YouTube videos . Now , there are restrictions on playing music in public . <p> On days he 's not volunteering for Aseel , Riaz tutors students online from home . He recently discovered German philosophers . <p> " Now 's the time to read Nietzsche ! " he laughs , explaining that the philosopher helped him find his own meaning in what sometimes feels like an increasingly meaningless world . <h> Male guardians <p> Policies imposed by the Taliban regarding women have made it more challenging for nonprofits to operate , diplomats and humanitarian officials say . <p> Besides barring girls from attending school beyond the sixth grade and requiring women to cover their faces , the Taliban prohibits women from travelling without a male guardian . It also issued orders to NGOs and the UN to stop their Afghan female staff from working . The government has made some exceptions , like in the healthcare sector . <p> Afghanistan 's donor base is n't expanding , and the " restrictive policies towards women and girls , " along with competing crises around the world , have contributed to a " decrease in funding , " according to Indrika Ratwatte , the UN 's deputy special representative for Afghanistan and humanitarian coordinator for the mission there . <p> The US Agency for International Development says it has provided more than $2bn in humanitarian and basic needs assistance to Afghanistan since 2021 . The humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan was " a direct result of the Taliban 's draconian edicts and policies -- which we condemn , " a spokesperson for the agency said . <p> The economy ministry 's Habib said Afghan women are involved in commercial and service-related activities " in accordance with the applicable regulations , " including health , education and banking . <p> On Aseel 's second delivery of the day , Riaz hangs back while Madina , a 19-year-old female volunteer , approaches a one-room house on the edge of another village outside of Herat . Madina , who prefers to go by her first name for privacy reasons , is joined by her 15-year-old brother Mohammad , who accompanies her as her " mahram , " or male guardian . <p> Inside the home , an exhausted mother sits on tattered carpets next to her two crying children . Flies buzz around the room and settle on empty bowls of food on the ground . The mother , a 21-year-old , lost her husband in the days following the earthquake last October when a destroyed wall collapsed on top of him . Madina fills out a form , then hands the mother an emergency food package . <p> Later , after she returns to a taxi idling outside the home , Madina explains that she can empathise with many of the young women and mothers she encounters because her family is also struggling . <p> " Like the families we distributed aid to today , we also compromise , " she says , sitting in the backseat of the taxi , squeezed in next to her younger brother . Her family can afford a few staples like rice and beans ; meat is too expensive . <p> Madina 's father died two years ago and her mother lost her job at another nonprofit due to a lack of funding . After the Taliban returned to power , they barred girls from secondary school and Madina could n't finish her studies . Now , her family relies on a small stipend she receives from Aseel every time she completes a delivery . <p> Each time Madina volunteers for Aseel , her little brother has to leave classes to accompany her . Looking over at her , Mohammad says he does n't mind . <h> Young breadwinners <p> Back in Herat city , the taxi carrying Madina and her brother speeds down a busy market road . Shops filled with meat and other produce line the street . Despite the appearance of abundance , four wholesalers in Herat 's main market say sales are down significantly since the fall of the previous Afghan government . <p> A survey conducted by a nonprofit initiative called REACH found that more than three-quarters of Afghan families are in debt . Farmers have been hit hard by climate shocks like droughts and floods . That has hurt their ability to cultivate crops -- leaving less money in their pockets . To stock up on food supplies before winter , they now must buy more on credit . <p> An Afghan boy stands next to houses damaged by an earthquake in 2023 , in Guzara district , Herat , Afghanistan , October 19 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> Many of these families have fled rural provinces to cities like Herat , where even middle-class Afghans have been pushed into precarity . <p> Nowhere is this more obvious than on the city 's streets , where large numbers of young children can be seen doing an array of menial jobs . Many are the primary breadwinners in their families . <p> As Madina 's taxi drives deeper into the city , more and more young boys can be seen outside , pushing carts laden with fruit , polishing shoes , or baking bread . Many have been forced to leave school to support their families . Most look several years younger than Madina 's brother . <p> Off the busy main road , in a quiet alley , over 20 girls sit behind neat rows of desks facing a whiteboard . The girls are all elementary school age and wear matching white hijabs as they learn Dari phrases in a small classroom . A family charity called Khana e Meher , which translates to " House of Kindness , " runs the school for young girls and boys . The charity 's founder , Abdul Qadir Salehi , is a longtime social worker from Herat . <p> His wife , Najiba , identifies working children from families requiring assistance , and their daughter helps teach classes . The goal of the charity , Salehi says , is to encourage the children 's families to let them study instead of work . Once they finish their studies , Salehi refers the boys to apprenticeships for skilled work like carpentry that can guarantee stability and more income in the future . <p> " Our role is like that of a father and mother for these children because their families do n't have anything to support them , " he says . <p> The children at the school fall into two categories : Those who are neglected by their parents and those who have lost a father or mother . Some of the children are still working : The girls make money cleaning houses or shelling nuts , while the boys work grinding jobs like making mud bricks for construction sites . <p> Even before the Taliban took power , Afghanistan had a large population of working children . But aid workers like Salehi say the number has jumped since 2021 . A 2023 Save the Children survey of six Afghan provinces , which did n't include Herat , found that more than a third of children had been pushed into work to help their families . <p> Inspectors from the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs are monitoring child labor and " advise employers to refrain from hiring children for arduous work , " said ministry spokesperson Samiullah Ibrahimi . Repeat offenders are " referred to judicial authorities . " <p> Hosna Salehi , whose family runs a charity called the House of Kindness , writes on a white board as she teaches children inside a classroom in Herat , Afghanistan , October 27 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> While there are more children in need of help , donations to Salehi 's charity have fallen . Middle-class Afghan families can no longer afford to be generous , he says . Women and men who used to live comfortably off jobs at international nonprofits or had other employment and income can no longer provide support . Before 2021 , Salehi 's school enrolled 90 children . Now , with donations down , he can support 60 . <p> Najiba , dressed in all black with a surgical mask hiding her face , listens to her husband while a young boy lingers next to her skirt . The boy , named Omar , was shining shoes and collecting trash on the street when Najiba noticed him walking with a limp . <p> " This little one , his father was killed , and he 's the oldest in the family , " Najiba says , squeezing the boy 's shoulder . At 11 , Omar is his family 's only son and the sole breadwinner for his mother and two sisters . <p> Like many others , Omar 's family moved to Herat from a province in northern Afghanistan two years ago . <p> Omar would take home 40 or 50 Afghanis ( about 60 to 70 US cents ) after working a full day on the streets , barely enough to buy a few pieces of bread for his family . When Najiba offered to enroll him in the school program , Omar was elated but explained he could n't attend because of his responsibilities . <p> " I asked him , ' Do you go to school , son ? ' and he replied , ' No , I do n't go to school because if I do , who will provide bread for us at home ? ' " <p> When Najiba visited Omar 's home in a particularly impoverished area of Herat city , his mother was using street trash as kindling to bring water to a boil . The family 's only food was bread and tea , Najiba says , pausing to wipe away tears . <p> In the past , the Salehis were able to distribute food to families of the working children twice a month but they now only give out food once a year as they do n't have enough donations . Providing lessons and a haven for children is what they can offer now . <p> " It 's the smallest service we can do for our country , " says Abdul Salehi , her husband . <p> " Imagine Afghanistan as a body with no part unscathed , a body completely covered in wounds , " he says . " We can only bandage some parts of it . " <p> Salehi unlocks his phone to show a stream of desperate messages from people asking for assistance . <p> " In Israel and Palestine there 's a war , where we see blood being shed , " he says , tucking his phone away in his jacket pocket . He pauses and swallows . <p> But the suffering of the Afghan people is invisible , he adds . <p> " They are suffocating and dying from poverty , yet , unfortunately , the world does n't see it . It 's like we 're experiencing the end of the world . " <h> Malnourished children <p> The UN 's World Food Program , a major food aid distributor that plays a vital role in Afghanistan , says a lack of funding means it will reach just over six million hungry people this winter with emergency food aid -- less than half of those who need it . <p> Among children , malnutrition is on the rise . An estimated 2.9m Afghan children will suffer acute malnutrition in 2024 , according to the Humanitarian Response Plan for this year . Another 570,000 children are expected to become malnourished next year , according to Harald Mannhardt , the WFP 's deputy country director for Afghanistan . <p> Doctors at remote clinics run by international nonprofits are among the first to catch the most desperate cases . <p> Just a few minutes outside of Herat city , crowded markets and leafy boulevards give way to vast skies and sand-colored dwellings that look as though they 're carved into the arid landscape . Goats and sheep roam over desert terrain that resembles the rocky surface of Mars . <p> About two hours drive along the wide asphalt road that connects Herat to the Turkmenistan border is a health clinic called Yaka Dokan . It 's run by World Vision , a nonprofit active in Afghanistan for over two decades . The clinic , housed in several adjoining white shipping containers , serves 16 villages with a combined population of 5,400 people . It sees up to 150 patients a day , mostly children . <p> Afghan women and children wait for their turn to see a doctor at Yaka Dokan health clinic run by nonprofit organisation World Vision , in Yaka Dokan village , Herat , Afghanistan , October 23 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> One weekday in October , more than an hour before the Yaka Dokan clinic is scheduled to open , a dozen women in billowing black burqas wait outside the gates . They huddle against the white wall circling the clinic , trying to shield their children from the bitter wind . By the time World Vision doctors drive up to the clinic in their minivan , more than 20 women and a dozen of their male guardians are assembled outside . <p> A few minutes after the clinic opens , dozens of women with babies and toddlers are queued up outside the office of Gulnisa , a 28-year-old doctor who serves as a community nutrition promoter for World Vision . Gulnisa and the other doctors interviewed for this story asked that only their first names be used , in line with the media policies of their organisations . <p> Wearing a white coat and a tartan scarf to cover her hair , she begins pulling out worn notebooks . A mother cradles a nine-month-old baby while another child sits quietly beside her . <p> Gulnisa instructs the mother to roll up the baby 's sleeves so she can use a colour-coded tape to measure the boy 's upper arm . The baby begins to wail loudly as the doctor helps the mother lay him on a small scale . A wooden measuring device is then used to check his height . Once the boy is back in the mother 's arms , Gulnisa carefully touches his feet to see if there is any swelling visible on his limbs , an indicator of acute malnutrition . The doctor checks the measurements against a chart , which helps her determine whether the boy is malnourished . <p> Gulnisa , 28 , a doctor who serves as a community nutrition promoter for nonprofit organisation World Vision , measures the height of a child to check if they are malnourished at Yaka Dokan health clinic run by the organisation , in Yaka Dokan village , Herat , Afghanistan , October 23 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> The baby is too small for his age and is on the cusp of moderate malnutrition , Gulnisa tells the mother . <p> " He cries day and night and does n't sleep , " the mother says as she tries to hold the wiggling child in her arms . They have traveled from a village several hours away . <p> The doctor hands the mother a plastic bag with 15 sachets of therapeutic food supplements . Leaning over her desk , she demonstrates how to knead the small red and white sachet before cutting it open to squeeze out the supplement . <p> " Before giving him the food , you need to wash your hands with soap . Not only your own hands , but you must also wash your child 's hands , " Gulnisa says , explaining in detail how to also try and feed the boy soft foods like porridge . <p> " You must also collect the packaging and bring it with you when you come back . Every 15 days , which is two weeks later , you should come here on a Wednesday , " she says . " What day should you come ? How many days later ? " <p> " After 15 days , " the mother repeats after her . <p> " You must give the food only to this child and no one else , understand ? Who should you give the food to , Auntie ? " <p> If doctors were to screen an average of about 50 patients in a day , they 'd find 20 , sometimes 25 cases of moderate malnutrition , says Nisar Ahmad , another doctor at the clinic . An additional 10 patients or less would have severe malnutrition . Of those most severe cases , three or four of the children will have complications caused by a lowered immune system that need to be referred to a larger hospital . <p> " The situation is moving toward a crisis , " says Nisar Ahmad , 31 . <p> Both doctors worry about what the winter will bring . Gulnisa spent last winter working in an even more remote clinic several hours northeast of Herat city . She says many families in far-lying villages there only had dry bread or potatoes to eat . <p> " In the villages where we work , things have gotten worse , " Gulnisa says . <p> Since the Taliban returned to power , the number of sites treating malnutrition has quadrupled , health ministry spokesperson Sharafat Zaman told Reuters . " We are fully prepared for this winter , " he said . <h> ' We have nothing ' <p> When doctors at rural clinics like Yaka Dokan find a child suffering from severe malnutrition with medical complications , they are referred to the Herat Regional Hospital , where medical charity M ? decins Sans Fronti ? res ( Doctors Without Borders , or MSF ) operates a pediatric emergency room , an intensive care unit and an inpatient therapeutic feeding center . <p> On a late October day , the hospital , which stands behind a brick and concrete gate in the center of the city , is a hub of activity . Women and children pace around the parking lot , walking past rows of tents set up by families who can not afford to stay elsewhere while their child receives treatment . <p> Inside , MSF doctors rush around the intensive care unit and adjoining feeding center , where dozens of babies and toddlers lie in cots next to concerned mothers and grandmothers . <p> Sediqa , an MSF doctor who works in the emergency room , says the number of patients with severe acute malnutrition and other complications is increasing daily . These children , most under two , have chronic conditions like congenital heart disease and neurological disorders , as well as severe issues like pneumonia , measles or sepsis . <p> Sediqa , an MSF doctor , examines a malnourished child as the child 's mother sits beside them in the paediatric department of Herat Regional Hospital , supported by Medecins Sans Frontieres ( MSF ) also known as Doctors Without Borders in Herat , Afghanistan , October 28 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> Some of the children require surgery or other treatments that are n't readily available in Afghanistan . Those with congenital heart defects in the MSF-supported pediatric department are usually put on a waitlist for surgery . In early November , 41 were awaiting cardiac operations . <p> " The capacity of treatment and surgery is low , so we have lots of patients who are dying while they are on the waitlist , " Sediqa , 26 , says . <p> She makes her rounds in one of the wards of the therapeutic feeding center , where four babies lie in their cots . She leans over one , a two-and-a-half-month-old called Haliza , who balls her fists and cries when the doctor carefully lifts her yellow lace dress to check her heartbeat . A tiny breathing tube sits under her nose . <p> The baby 's grandmother , who has traveled eight hours by bus from rural Farsi district to bring Haliza to the hospital , says the girl is suffering from pneumonia and convulsions . Gaunt and clad in a floor-length black abaya , the grandmother says it 's the second time the baby has been admitted to the ward for malnutrition . <p> Last time , Haliza spent 19 days here , she says . <p> Looking over at the hospital staff , the grandmother says her seven-year-old niece back in the family 's village is also malnourished . <p> " We took her to the doctor many times , but she still has n't recovered , " she says . " You must help , " she says , with more urgency . " We have nothing . " <p> Header Image : Afghan children play outside a mud house in Markhor-e-Sufla village , Herat , Afghanistan , October 26 , 2024. -- Reuters 
@@118694511 <p> After being responsible for the killings of 44,758 Palestinians , attacking healthcare facilities in Gaza 492 times , and invading three sovereign states , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has been included in the shortlist as Time 's Person of the Year -- a decision that has raised some eyebrows . <p> According to the publication , it " has named a person , group , or concept that had the biggest impact -- for good or for ill -- on the world over the previous 12 months " as its Person of the Year . <p> In the past , Time has bestowed the recognition upon Adolf Hitler ( 1938 ) , pop icon Taylor Swift ( 2023 ) , Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky and the " spirit of Ukraine " ( 2022 ) , tech billionaire Elon Musk ( 2021 ) , and former US president Barack Obama ( 2008 , 2012 ) . <p> Needless to say , the honour simply recognises the individual who had the greatest impact and is not based on whether the influence was positive or negative . However , there is something odd about nominating an individual with arrest warrants from the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) , an individual responsible for what Amnesty International has called a genocide in Gaza . <p> Palestinian journalist and writer Hamza Yousuf highlighted that Netanyahu was " the man who said he will turn Gaza into rubble and did precisely that . What a sick world . " <p> His presence on the list provides legitimacy to Bibi 's rampage in not only Gaza , but Lebanon , Iran and now Syria . This is further cemented by the way Time has phrased its reasoning for shortlisting him . <p> " Defying criticism of his war on Hamas , the terrorist organization that killed 1,200 people in an attack against Israel on Oct 7 , 2023 , Netanyahu continued his military assault on the Gaza Strip this year , even as the death toll there rose to 44,056 , according to the Gaza Health Ministry , " the publication detailed . There is an undertone of heroism attributed to Netanyahu , for what is implied to be resilience in the face of Palestinian deaths . <p> He " continued his military assault " despite Palestinian deaths , however , as countless international bodies have detailed , there is an intent to destroy Palestinians , their homes , their livelihoods , their schools and hospitals . <p> Amnesty International , in its latest report , " considers that Israel committed these acts with the specific intent to destroy Palestinians in Gaza , as such . It concludes that Israel has committed genocide in Gaza . " <p> He is undoubtedly , as one X ( formerly Twitter ) user said , " a genocidal monster " . <p> While he is hated globally , Netanyahu is also reviled within Israel . Not only does he face three cases of corruption , including allegations of bribery , fraud , and breach of trust -- he is a politician after all -- 72 per cent of Israelis think Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu needs to resign over the failures of October 7 , according to a Channel 12poll . <p> An article by The Atlantic , titled ' Benjamin Netanyahu Is Israel 's Worst Prime Minister Ever ' , highlighted that he brought far-right extremists into the mainstream government , making himself and the government beholden to them ; his corruption allegations ; and his " terrible security decisions that brought existential danger to the country . <p> " Above all , his selfishness is without parallel : He has put his own interests ahead of Israel 's at every turn . " <p> Time 's nomination appears to be a commemoration of that very selfishness . Let 's not forget , despite his relentless assault on Gaza , 63 Israeli hostages remain in Hamas captivity while Bibi continues to launch airstrikes on displacement tents , killing innocent Palestinian civilians for no apparent reason . <p> Time and again , Time has given a platform to Netanyahu , including their August interview with him where he justified his heinous war crimes . <p> As Jewish Voice for Peace said , the interview normalised the crimes his government is committing in Gaza and " war criminals should n't be given a platform to minimise and deny genocide . " <p> This honour -- and let there be no mistake , if chosen as Person of the Year , the feat will be considered an honour by Netanyahu loyalists -- will only amplify the Zionist message . <p> A renowned publication naming a war-mongering , right-wing extremist as its Person of the Year will validate his crimes in Gaza , Lebanon , Iran and Syria as a brave fight against terrorists ; tens of thousands of civilian deaths be damned . <p> What makes Netanyahu 's shortlisting significantly worse is the appalling lack of Palestinian candidates . Palestinian journalists , first responders , and people running kitchens despite a severe lack of food in Gaza were all snubbed for the person responsible for killing them . <p> A shocking 129 Palestinian and six Lebanese journalists were killed by Israel , according to the Committee to Protect Journalists , while reporting in the conflict-ridden zones , yet not one was considered worthy to be Time 's Person of the Year . <p> The irony of it all is that Palestinian photojournalist Motaz Azaiza was named in the Time 's 100 Most Influential People of 2024 list , while food blogger Hamada Shaqoura was featured on the Time 100 Next 2024 list . And yet , when the time came for Time to nominate its Person of the Year , they seemingly forgot Azaiza , Shaqoura and many other Palestinians who are responsible for raising awareness about the plight of Gaza and the severity of Israel 's assault . <p> Several X users pointed out that journalist Bisan Owda , who received a News Emmy and Peabody for her documentary about life in Gaza and has been featured on several year-ender lists , should have been shortlisted by Time . <p> In spite of the Israeli aggression , the bombings , airstrikes , displacement , and rampant hunger , Owda has continued to make content detailing life under the occupation and its assault . Boasting over four million followers on Instagram , the 27-year-old relentlessly raises her voice for the Palestinian cause , covering the extermination campaign ceaselessly , posting video updates every few days and shedding light on stories that would have otherwise gone untold without her voice . <p> Netizens were also surprised that Gisele Pelicot was n't shortlisted after the Frenchwoman waived her right to anonymity and opted for a public trial when her husband was charged with drugging , raping her , and inviting other men to sexually assault her . <p> The rest of Time 's list was rather abysmal , with only two people of colour nominated from a total of ten shortlisted candidates . 
@@118694562 <h> Cooperate or Confront ? <p> The United States elected Donald Trump as its 47th president . The future of the US-China relationship under Trump has been a contentious issue . The US and China have one of the most significant bilateral partnerships in the world , which affects not only the welfare of these two but also the rest of the globe , regardless of who is in the White House . Cooperation is required in this situation and is not a choice . <p> With combined economic production exceeding one-third of the global total , China and the US are two of the world 's leading economic powers . American businesses have shown their commitment to collaboration by consistently increasing their investments in the Chinese market , notwithstanding the " China collapse " ideas of some anti-China hawks . <p> For example , in March , Apple opened its second-largest flagship store globally in Shanghai , China . Nearly 90% of the more than 70,000 American businesses invested and operated in China have done so profitably . According to the American Chamber of Commerce in China 's 2024 China Business Climate Survey Report , these businesses reported better financial success in 2023 with higher gains . <p> It would be simpler for Trump to achieve his peace objective if he collaborated with China , a significant Middle Eastern peacemaker . <p> On the other hand , confrontation is detrimental to all parties . For example , the American economy has suffered greatly due to the trade war , which has not addressed the fundamental issues that the tariff battle was intended to address . <p> Furthermore , the US 's unreasonable and excessive pressure on China undermines both nations and the global community 's enduring economic success and technological advancement . The impractical and detrimental strategies intended to sever ties with China have resulted in significant losses for both nations and have impacted others , destabilized the international economic and trade framework and obstructed technological advancement . The trade reciprocity and technological collaboration between the United States and China , as the foremost global economies , are advantageous for sustainable development worldwide . <p> Consequently , China and the United States must not undermine their mutual and enduring interests , nor should they disregard their obligations and roles in global economic recovery . President Xi has emphasized that China-U.S. relations constitute one of the most significant bilateral partnerships globally , impacting both nations ' welfare and humanity 's destiny ; they should facilitate mutual progress rather than obstruct it . <p> Since it began in 2018 , the trade war has caused significant harm to the United States . For the president-elect , if he truly wants to Make America Great Again , a practical strategy -- in this case , increasing trade relations with China -- is far more sensible than small-yard-high-fence protectionist measures . <p> In terms of diplomacy , the Washington-Beijing alliance is crucial for mediating disputes . Trump has called for an immediate halt to the war in Gaza on multiple occasions . Trump promised Americans , " You are going to have peace in the Middle East , " during his last week 's visit to a Lebanese eatery in Dearborn , Michigan . It would be simpler for Trump to achieve his peace objective if he collaborated with China , a significant Middle Eastern peacemaker . <p> In July , 14 Palestinian groups held reconciliation negotiations in Beijing , where top leaders signed the Beijing Declaration on Strengthening Palestinian National Unity and Ending Division , mediated by China . China made an impression on the world last year by acting as a peace broker in the diplomatic relations and reconciliation between Saudi Arabia and Iran . In this regard , a relationship between the US and China is essential to resolving Middle Eastern issues . <p> Furthermore , closing significant climate agreements depends on collaboration between the US and China , which generate the most greenhouse emissions globally . The two nations established their Working Group on Strengthening Climate Action in the 2020s in January of this year . US-China 's in-depth communications on energy transition , low-carbon provinces , states , and the global response to climate-changed cities are crucial . <p> Trump should show that collaboration is advantageous for all nations and that a zero-sum game would only result in a situation where both parties suffer multiple losses . Trump should act as a practical politician . Although there are undoubtedly significant differences between the two nations , this does not stop them from looking for a way to work together . Beijing has reaffirmed that it has no plans to take the US place or challenge it in international affairs . <p> Trump 's administration has created a pivotal juncture in the changing U.S.-China relationship : the decision to work together or conflict . As two of the world 's most powerful economies , the two countries are in a position to resolve urgent global concerns , such as trade disputes , conflict resolution , and climate change . <p> Despite ideological and policy differences , cooperation 's possible benefits greatly exceed a protracted conflict 's drawbacks . A practical strategy emphasizing shared interests and positive interaction can open the door to stability and development for both nations and the global community . <p> The globe now awaits Trump 's decision to embrace collaboration and move away from a zero-sum game in favour of a future of peace and prosperity for everybody . 
@@118694639 <h> Collapse of Assad 's government fuels Israeli occupation and strikes on Syria <p> The collapse of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad 's regime has thrown Syria into chaos , and Israel is swiftly capitalising on the situation . <p> Exploiting the instability on its northern border , Israel is pushing forward with its expansionist agenda , invading into and occupying more Syrian land , particularly in the Golan Heights area . <p> In a clear act of territorial aggression , Israel recently seized a 400-square-kilometre area in Syria 's demilitarised buffer zone , established by the United Nations in 1974 following the ceasefire between Israel and Syria . <p> This zone , once patrolled by UN peacekeepers to maintain peace , is now under Israeli military control . <p> With Syrian forces absent from the region , Israel justifies its actions as a means of securing its northern border , but many view it as a calculated land grab . <p> Israeli forces have also advanced further into southern Syria , reaching approximately 25 km from Damascus , including the area of Qatana , which lies 10 km inside Syria 's border . <p> The Egyptian Foreign Ministry condemned Israel 's actions as violations of international law , accusing Israel of exploiting Syria 's instability to extend its territorial control . Israel 's annexation of the Golan Heights , seized during the 1967 Six-Day War , remains unrecognised by most of the international community . <p> Israeli Airstrikes and escalating violence <p> Israel 's aggression is not limited to territorial occupation . The Israeli military has conducted over 100 airstrikes in Syria in recent weeks , targeting military sites , including facilities linked to chemical weapons production and missile development . <p> These strikes , which have killed at least 68 people , including Syrian soldiers and foreign fighters , exacerbate Syria 's instability . Israel 's claims of targeting only " extremists " obscure its broader objective of solidifying its occupation of Syrian territories , particularly the Golan Heights . <p> The ongoing violence is part of a broader pattern of military action by Israel , including its deadly war on Gaza , which has claimed over 44,700 lives since October last year , mostly women and children . <p> Lebanese health authorities have also report edthat since October 2023 , Israeli airstrikes and attacks on Lebanon have resulted in over 4,000 deaths and more than 16,500 injuries . Additionally , more than one million people have been displaced due to the ongoing violence . <p> In a significant move last month , the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant , charging them with war crimes and crimes against humanity related to the ongoing conflict in Gaza . <p> Furthermore , Israel is now facing a genocide case at the International Court of Justice for its actions in Gaza , with an Amnesty International investigation also concluding that Israel 's military actions amount to genocide against Palestinians in the region . 
@@118694671 <p> The fall of Damascus the Syrian capital came on December 8 , 2024 as the climax to the fall of city after city to the lightning offensive launched on November 27 by the Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) Islamic fundamentalist group led by Abu Mohammed al-Golani , who has emerged as the putative leader of Syria in the new obtaining circumstances . <p> Bashar al-Assad , the deposed president , has fled with his family to Moscow and been granted asylum by the government , Russia having been , along with Iran , one of al-Assad 's main bastions of support since the 2011 protest movement morphed into a bloody civil war . <p> As often happens after such cataclysmic events , there have been reports of widespread looting , including al-Assad 's home . <p> The Iranian embassy in Damascus has been ransacked . Al-Golani has since issued orders to his forces to maintain order and not harass people or enter their homes . This is of a piece with his stance of projecting himself as representing all the Syrian people , thereby allaying fears of HTS enforcing strict Sunni sharia law . <p> It is also a reflection of how HTS , hitherto called the Nusra Front , an al Qaeda ally , has transformed itself into the leading force of a broad coalition of anti-Assad fundamentalist groups . It is this unity of the fundamentalist opposition that has paved the way for HTS ' incredible victory . <p> That victory was also made possible by the hollowing out by corruption and lack of commitment of the Syrian army after Russia , Iran and the Lebanese Hezbollah helped al-Assad prevail over the armed revolt against his regime . <p> The hiatus that emerged from 2016 onwards in Syria 's civil war was not taken advantage of by the al-Assad regime to consolidate itself politically , the deprivations of forbidding sanctions imposed on it by the US-led west notwithstanding . <p> Instead , in a demonstration of hubris , he continued to rely on the repressive measures that had become the hallmark of his rule . With his military disintegrating and the people fed up of his repressive rule with nothing positive to balance it , al-Assad became the ripe fruit for plucking once the Russian ( because of the Ukraine war ) , Iranian and Hezbollah ( owed to the Gaza and Lebanon-Israel wars ) support had been weakened . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has boasted that it is the blows his country delivered on Hezbollah and Iran that made the downfall of al-Assad possible . <p> Israel , in its inevitably alert exploitation of every opportunity , carried out air strikes on strategic sites and weapons depots in Damascus and south-west Syria after the fall of al-Assad . <p> It has also deployed further troops in the Golan Heights , ostensibly to ' protect ' the UN peacekeepers stationed there between Israeli-held territory ( which it captured in the 1967 war and has since unilaterally annexed ) but more probably with a view to taking advantage of the opportunity to annex more territory . <p> Not to be left behind , the US , through CENTCOM , carried out 75 air strikes in central Syria , ostensibly against Islamic State ( IS ) assets . <p> While these startling developments since November 27 , 2024 , when HTS began its lightning offensive , represent a major strategic gain for the US , Israel and Turkiye and a major setback for Russia and Iran , its true import lies in the ' completion ' of the task the US-led west ( and Israel ) set itself some years ago . This consisted of a concerted effort to weaken if not demolish the Axis of Resistance to Israel that emerged as the counter to the betrayal by successive Arab regimes ( led first and foremost by Egypt ) of recognising Israel and making peace with it . <p> Three left-leaning Arab Nationalist ( therefore anti-Israel , anti-imperialist ) regimes became the foremost ' take out ' targets . These were , Libya , Iraq and Syria . The first of these yielded the brutal death of Gaddafi and the subsequent civil war that continues to debilitate that country . <p> The second , after two invasions , led to the hanging of Saddam Hussein and the subsequent state of civil war and destruction of that unfortunate country that has yet to completely subside . The third was Syria , besieged by a mass protest movement that emerged as part of the Arab Spring in 2011 but soon transmogrified into another bloody civil war , whose end we have now witnessed in the overthrow of Assad . <p> Whatever one may think of al-Assad and his regime , there is some comfort in the fact that he and his family managed to flee safely to asylum in Moscow and did not suffer the fate of Gaddafi and Saddam Hussein . <p> The three ' hold-out ' Arab regimes having now been demolished , can one begin to sing the funeral dirge of left-leaning , anti-imperialist , anti-Israel Arab regimes ? <p> The intriguing part of this mosaic is how after spending five years in a US prison in Iraq for fighting with al Qaeda , al-Golani ended up over time as nothing short of a US and Israeli satrap . That is a story still to be told . The last word on Syria , however , still remains out there in the void . It will depend very much on what sort of regime emerges from HTS 's victory , what policies it adopts , how it governs . <p> In other words , will the placatory stance adopted by al-Golani continue or will it be overtaken in time by the deeply fundamentalist hue the HTS ( and even more its previous avatar Nusra Front ) have camouflaged for the moment in ' reconciliatory ' rhetoric ? 
@@118694843 <h> Amsterdam Mayhem <p> On 27 September 2024 , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu addressed the UN General Assembly , advocating for a broader " Abrahamic alliance " involving the US , Israel , and Saudi Arabia . His proposal , coming on the heels of immense bloodshed in Gaza , seems jarring and insincere . Such an alliance , if realised , appears designed to counter Iran and China 's influence in the Middle East , rather than foster genuine interfaith harmony . <p> Netanyahu conveniently overlooks the troubling realities in his own backyard . In Jerusalem , Jewish worshippers have been reported spitting on Christian visitors to holy sites . The derogatory term " Gentiles , " used to describe non-Jews , persists . Most glaringly , Netanyahu 's government has overseen the economic blockade and atrocities in Gaza , with Israel being condemned 174 times in the last decade for human rights violations by the United Nations . <p> The Gaza conflict has further strained interfaith relations globally . Riots between Muslims and Jews in cities like Amsterdam reflect the escalating tension . In one instance , clashes broke out after an Israeli football fan forcibly removed a Palestinian flag . The crisis also led to the resignation of Dutch Deputy Minister Nora Achahbar , who protested against racist remarks by her colleagues . Muslims in many Western nations now face increased scrutiny , allegations of anti-Semitism , and threats of deportation . <p> The war in Gaza must end to prevent further polarisation within multicultural societies worldwide . While Muslims have every right to protest against injustice , it is crucial that their actions remain within the bounds of the law . 
@@118714142 <h> With Israel hopeful , the US will intensify efforts to reach a truce in Gaza . <h> DUBAI : In addition to the situation in Syria after the regime transition , US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan will visit Israel on Thursday to talk about efforts to mediate a ceasefire agreement and a prisoner swap in Gaza , the White House said . <p> According to National Security Council spokesperson Sean Savett , Sullivan will meet with Israeli officials to talk about the latest events in Syria , efforts to establish a ceasefire and prisoner release agreement in Gaza , and talks regarding Lebanon and Iran . <p> Following allegations that Hamas had requested lists of Israeli prisoners in the Palestinian enclave , Israeli Foreign Minister Gideon Saar indicated that Israel had grown " more optimistic about a possible " compromise in Gaza . <p> Although it was still too early to tell , he claimed that chances had improved and that indirect talks were underway regarding the return of roughly 100 convicts . <p> Trump 's Middle East aide threatens repercussions if inmates are not freed before January 20 . <p> " We are not there yet , but we can be more hopeful than we were before . Saar reiterated his position that a ceasefire would not be possible without a deal for the release of prisoners , saying , " I hope we will be there , " at a press conference in Jerusalem . <p> A Palestinian official who was aware of the mediation attempt stated that because of the Israeli bombardment , which has been going on for more than 14 months , Hamas has urged all organizations in Gaza to begin naming all of the captives in their hands , whether they are living or dead . <p> However , Hamas representatives declined to react right away . <p> On October 7 , 2023 , Hamas attacked Israeli-occupied territory and captured over 250 captives . More than 44,700 Palestinians , primarily women and children , have been slain by Israeli forces in Gaza since then . <p> Although both parties accuse the other of impeding an agreement , Saar stated that Hamas ' prior stance " may have changed during recent times . " " There is a greater chance that an agreement will be reached if both parties are interested in it , " he stated . <p> Meanwhile , medical professionals said that Israeli strikes in Gaza persisted both overnight and Monday . They reported that at least four people were killed in one hit close to the Jabalia camp . <p> Eleven Palestinian dead were found by rescuers in Rafah . Six persons were murdered in an Israeli strike in Beit Lahiya , while four children were killed in an Israeli strike in Al-Maghazi . <p> President-elect Trump 's Middle East envoy has cautioned that if the captives detained in Gaza are not freed before to his inauguration , it will " not be a pretty day " amid the continued Israeli assaults . <p> Steve Witkoff , who will officially assume the role on January 20 when Trump 's government begins , expressed his hope and prayer that a ceasefire will be established in Gaza before to Trump 's inauguration . <p> He referred to Trump when he said , " You heard what the president said , they better be released . " " Pay attention to the president 's remarks . On the fringes of an Abu Dhabi conference , Witkoff continued , " If they 're not released , it 's not a pretty day . " <p> Last week , Trump warned on social media that if the prisoners were not released before his inauguration , there would be " hell to pay . " <h> PKKH ( Pakistan Ka Khuda Hafiz ) is a respected Pakistani news website offering accurate and comprehensive coverage of politics , culture , and global affairs . With a commitment to objective reporting and insightful analysis , PKKH provides readers with a well-rounded perspective on current events . The platform encourages community engagement and leverages digital technology to reach a wide audience , contributing to informed discussions and awareness . 
@@118739105 <p> It was a protracted struggle that had left hundreds of thousands of people dead and displaced millions . But the end was swift . A demoralised Syrian army melted away in the face of the rebel onslaught . Bashar al-Assad has fled and the country awaits a new political order . <p> What happens next will decide the fate of the fragmented nation and will also have far-reaching geopolitical implications that could drastically alter the political map of the Middle East . Syria has long been a geopolitical cauldron with various contending regional and world powers being directly or indirectly involved in its civil war . The overthrow of the Assad regime has drastically changed the regional power matrix . <p> A new power game seems to have already started , with some regional countries vying for influence over the course of Syria 's political trajectory . The fall of one of the world 's longest dictatorships in modern times has come at a point when the entire region is in deep turmoil . Israel 's ongoing genocidal war in Gaza and its military action against Lebanon has made the situation extremely dangerous . The Zionist regime , which has been engaged in an undeclared war against Syria for long , is now taking full advantage of the prevailing uncertainty there and has extended its occupation of the border region . Israel 's latest military action has alarmed countries in the neighbourhood . <p> However , the most important question is what happens in Syria now . So far , no major incident of violence has been reported from any part of the country after the fall of Bashar al-Assad . But the situation is tenuous , with disparate rebel militias controlling the country . Will these groups , with their differing interests and external links , agree on a common agenda for a future political set-up ? Some of them are proxies of regional countries , and not independent actors . That makes any transition extremely complex . <p> Transition will not be easy in a divided country that has just evicted a decades-old dictatorship . <p> The most powerful group that has spearheaded the uprising is the Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) . A breakaway faction of Al Qaeda , it was designated a terrorist group by the US , Turkiye and several other countries . Although the leader of the group , Ahmed al-Sharaa , whose nom de guerre is Abu Mohammed al-Jolani , seems to have moderated his views , his past association with transnational jihadi organisations , including the so-called Islamic State group , has attracted international suspicion . <p> There is also a fear that the change could lead to another period of authoritarian rule dominated by radical Islamists . But the recent statement by the group leadership may dispel those concerns . Moreover , the other groups which dominate parts of the country may not allow the establishment of a radical religious order . <p> Among other groups who played a key role in bringing down the Assad regime are the Syrian National Army , backed by Turkiye , and the Kurdish Peoples Protection Units , that controls a part of the territory in the north . It remains to be seen if these diverse groups can agree on a democratic political process . A transitional set-up seems to be in the works but the next biggest challenge would be to hold elections to establish a representative democratic order in the country . <p> It will certainly not be easy in a divided country that has just evicted a family dictatorship of long standing . Transition is never easy in a fractured political environment with a complex mosaic of power groups espousing diverse ideologies and interests . The deep involvement of external forces will be a strong factor in how things develop in post-revolution Syria . <p> The overthrow of the Assad regime will reshape regional politics . Several countries , including the US , Russia , Iran , Israel and Turkiye , have a military presence in Syria . Russia and Iran had for long militarily backed the Assad regime in fighting the rebellion that begun 13 years ago . With direct military support from these two countries , the regime managed to contain the revolt but could not entirely crush the rebel forces . The inability of these countries to come to the regime 's rescue at the end led to Assad 's fall . <p> While Russia is bogged down in its own war in Ukraine , a badly weakened Iran , facing a setback in Israel 's war against Tehran 's close ally Hezbollah in Lebanon , was not in a position to help the tottering regime . Tehran seems to have come out as the biggest loser in the fast shifting sands of regional geopolitics in the aftermath of the Syrian dictatorship 's overthrow . <p> Moscow is still keeping its airbase and naval facility in the country , but it will not be possible for it to maintain its military presence in the country for long . Moscow 's stakes have further fallen with its decision to provide asylum to the ousted Syrian leader and his family . Among the regional countries , Turkiye perhaps wields more power to influence the future course of politics in Syria , given its significant clout with some of the rebel groups in control of certain areas in the country . Ankara also has a military presence in Syrian territory . <p> America , too , has maintained a military base in Syria 's Kurdistan region , with some troops there ostensibly to counter the IS , which is still active in some parts of the country . But Israel remains the biggest destabilising factor in the region , taking full advantage of the uncertain situation in Syria . <p> Since the fall of the Assad government , Israel has seized more territory in Syria 's Golan Heights , tearing up the 1974 agreement between the two countries . But it does n't stop there . Some ministers of Israel 's far-right government are now talking about extending the push further to Damascus . Meanwhile , Israel has continued air strikes on military bases deep inside Syria . It is a dangerous situation . Such bellicosity could affect Syria 's search for political stability and threaten the security of the entire region . 
@@118739147 <h> UN appeals for $4.07b in aid for Gaza and West Bank , warns more is needed <p> A woman mourns the destruction of an Israeli strike in Jabaliya in northern Gaza on November 10 , 2024 . Photo AFP <p> The UN on Wednesday appealed for $4.07 billion to provide desperately needed aid in war-ravaged Gaza and the West Bank next year , saying that the actual amount needed was far higher . <p> The aim will be to provide assistance to " the entire population of Gaza , estimated at 2.1 million people , and 900,000 people in the West Bank , " the United Nations humanitarian agency OCHA said in its appeal . <p> It said that the actual needs amounted to " at least $6.6 billion " , but suggested that Israeli constraints placed on aid delivery meant it would be difficult to scale up operations to that level . <p> " To be able to implement the full scale of what is urgently needed , Israel must take immediate and effective measures to ensure the essential needs of civilians are met , " the appeal said . <p> " Humanitarian actors anticipate being limited in what they can achieve in 2025 due to severe restrictions ... and ever greater challenges to their ability to operate , including intensified and coordinated anti-UN rhetoric strategically aimed at delegitimizing humanitarian efforts , " the appeal said . <p> If all sides fully complied with international law , OCHA said it would be possible to deliver aid to the tune of $6.6 billion . <p> But " assuming humanitarian actors will continue to face a constrained operating environment , the 2025 OPT Flash Appeal calls for $4 billion of this amount " , it said . <p> That , it said , meant that aid would reach three million people , rather than the 3.3 million in dire need . <p> Stressing that " the speed and scale of the killing and destruction in the Gaza Strip are unlike anything seen in recent history " , OCHA cautioned that " without sustained solutions to end the violence , humanitarian needs will continue to rise " . <p> It called among other things for safe and sustained access to all people in need across the occupied Palestinian territories , enabling the entry into Gaza of humanitarian goods at scale . 
@@118739148 <h> Khamenei accuses US , Israel of plotting Bashar al-Assad 's downfall <p> " Until today , the victory has been for the Palestinian resistance and Hezbollah , " Khamenei said . PHOTO : AFP <p> Iran 's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei has accused the United States and Israel of orchestrating the toppling of former Syrian President Bashar al-Assad , while also blaming a " neighbouring " country of Syria . <p> " There should be no doubt that what happened in Syria was the result of a joint American-Zionist plot , " said Khamenei , addressing the fall of al-Assad for the first time in a speech delivered in Tehran on Wednesday . <p> While emphasising that the US and Israel were the main conspirators , Khamenei also alluded to the role played by " a neighbouring state of Syria " , according to state news agency IRNA . <p> The neighbour had a " clear role and continues to do so , " said Khamenei , without naming the country . <p> Khamenei also said that Iranian intelligence had warned the Syrian government about threats to its stability over the past three months , adding that Damascus had " neglected the enemy " . <p> Blow to ' axis of resistance ' <p> Syrian rebels ' lightning push to the capital , Damascus , from their strongholds in the northwest ended the decades-long rule of al-Assad 's family . <p> Iran and Russia had propped up al-Assad 's rule after the eruption of war in 2011 with military and political support , as well as fighters and airpower . <p> On Tuesday , the commander of Iran 's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps , Hossein Salami , said no Iranian forces remained in Syria . <p> Al-Assad had long played a strategic role in the Iran-led " axis of resistance " against US and Israeli influence in the region , which includes armed groups . <p> Speaking hours after al-Assad fled Syria on Sunday , US President Joe Biden claimed the end of al-Assad 's rule was partly due to US backing for Israel 's war on Gaza and its fight against Hezbollah in Lebanon , as well as support for groups in Syria and Iraq that weakened Iran . <p> He also pointed to US support for Ukraine 's war against Russia 's invasion , which siphoned resources from Moscow , and said US forces would remain in northeast Syria . <p> Israel , meanwhile , has carried out hundreds of air attacks across Syria since the overthrowing of al-Assad , hitting key military sites , while its troops have moved into a demilitarised zone inside Syria , including the Syrian side of the strategic Mount Hermon that overlooks Damascus . <p> But Khamenei on Wednesday said events in Syria would not diminish Iran 's power , dismissing suggestions that the country would be weakened as " ignorant " and arguing that resistance would grow . <p> " The more pressure you apply , the stronger it becomes ; the more crimes you commit , the more motivated it becomes ; the more you fight them , the more expanded it becomes , " he said . <p> Hours after al-Assad 's fall , Iran said it expected relations with Damascus to continue , based on the two countries ' " far-sighted and wise approach " and called for the establishment of an inclusive government representing all segments of Syrian society . <p> Iran 's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei has accused the United States and Israel of orchestrating the downfall of former Syrian President Bashar al-Assad , while also implicating a " neighbouring " country of Syria . In a speech delivered in Tehran on Wednesday , Khamenei said : " There should be no doubt that what happened in Syria was the result of a joint American-Zionist plot . " This marks Khamenei 's first public comments on al-Assad 's fall . <p> lthough Khamenei emphasised the role of the US and Israel , he also hinted at the involvement of a neighbouring state , which he did not name . According to the state news agency IRNA , Khamenei stated that this neighbouring country had played " a clear role and continues to do so . " <p> Khamenei also claimed that Iranian intelligence had warned Syria about threats to its stability over the past three months , accusing the Syrian government of having " neglected the enemy . " <p> The fall of al-Assad 's government , which marked the end of decades of rule by his family , came after a Syrian rebel offensive to capture Damascus from their strongholds in the northwest . Iran and Russia had been key backers of al-Assad , providing military and political support as well as fighters and airpower since the outbreak of the civil war in 2011 . <p> On Tuesday , Iran 's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps commander , Hossein Salami , declared that no Iranian forces remained in Syria . Al-Assad had long been a key figure in the Iran-led " axis of resistance " against US and Israeli influence in the Middle East , which also includes various armed groups . <p> US President Joe Biden claimed responsibility for al-Assad 's fall , stating that it was partly due to US support for Israel 's actions in Gaza , the fight against Hezbollah in Lebanon , and assistance to groups in Syria and Iraq that undermined Iranian influence . He also highlighted US support for Ukraine 's war against Russia , which had drained resources from Moscow . Biden added that US forces would remain in northeast Syria . <p> Israel , for its part , has carried out hundreds of airstrikes across Syria since the toppling of al-Assad , targeting key military sites . Israeli troops have also entered a demilitarised zone in Syria , including the strategic Mount Hermon overlooking Damascus . <p> However , Khamenei dismissed suggestions that the events in Syria would diminish Iran 's power . Referring to calls for Iran 's weakening as " ignorant , " he insisted that pressure on Iran would only strengthen its resolve . " The more pressure you apply , the stronger it becomes ; the more crimes you commit , the more motivated it becomes ; the more you fight them , the more expanded it becomes , " he said . <p> In response to al-Assad 's departure , Iran expressed hope for the continuation of its relations with Damascus , calling for the formation of an inclusive Syrian government representing all segments of society . 
@@118739178 <h> Out in the cold <p> Gaza is in ruins . Pummeled daily by Israeli airstrikes and under permanent siege by the Zionist entity , the people endure some of the harshest conditions imaginable . Yet the world and Muslim countries hardly raise a finger against the genocide taking place . Nearly one million displaced Palestinians are at risk of extreme cold and rain this winter , the UN Agency for Palestine Refugees ( UNRWA ) has warned . According to UNRWA , only 23% of the needs for shelter and protection from the harsh winter elements have been met , leaving almost a million displaced people vulnerable to exposure . With homes and neighbourhoods reduced to rubble by continuous Israeli airstrikes , many families are left to scavenge what little remains of their homes , seeking refuge in conditions that are already unbearable . The threat of cold and rain exacerbates their suffering , making it nearly impossible to survive without urgent aid . The lack of adequate shelter and supplies underscores the international community 's failure to address the dire needs of the people in Gaza . <p> The situation in Gaza is not just about the immediate physical dangers posed by the cold . The longer-term consequences of this war are equally devastating . The destruction of vital infrastructure , such as hospitals , schools and power plants , has crippled the region 's ability to function . The healthcare system is overwhelmed , unable to treat the thousands of injured civilians . The international community must prioritise the protection of civilians and ensure that aid reaches those who need it most . It is not enough to simply condemn the violence ; action is needed to alleviate the suffering of innocent Palestinians whose lives have been torn apart . Another UN General Assembly vote for an ' unconditional ' ceasefire in Gaza , scheduled yesterday , is unlikely to meet a fate other than being vetoed in support of Israel , as on previous occasions . The world needs to do more for Gaza and all powers need to come together to end the suffering of the Palestinian people . 
@@118739186 <h> Israeli attack claims 29 more lives in northern , central Gaza <p> Israeli attacks on the northern and central regions of the Gaza Strip have killed dozens of people , medical sources report , as the bombardment across the besieged territory intensifies and the humanitarian crisis continues to worsen . <p> In the early hours of Wednesday , the Israeli army bombed a residential building in Beit Lahiya , located near Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza , which has been under an even tighter siege for more than two months . The strike killed at least 20 people , including women and children , but local reports suggest the death toll could rise . The building , home to the Abu Tarabish family , had been sheltering at least 30 displaced people at the time of the attack . <p> Footage obtained by Al Jazeera showed residents using their bare hands to pull large chunks of concrete from the rubble . A child 's body was among those recovered from the debris . <p> " This residential building has been turned into ruin . The smoke is still rising , " said journalist Moath Kahlout , reporting from the scene . " Due to a shortage of rescue teams , the neighbours are trying to pull the dead bodies from under the rubble . " <p> Later in the day , another attack on a residential home in the densely populated Nuseirat refugee camp resulted in the deaths of at least seven people , all members of the same family . In addition , the Palestinian Civil Emergency Service reported that two more people were killed by an Israeli airstrike on a house in Gaza City . <p> ' No letup ' in attacks amid growing crisis <p> Al Jazeera 's Hani Mahmoud , reporting from Deir el-Balah in central Gaza , described the ongoing violence amid " a deepening humanitarian crisis . " " There are no basic supplies available , markets are depleted and the crisis keeps continuing to evolve in a devastating way , " he said , highlighting that the attacks show " no letup . " <p> The Israeli military has not yet commented on the latest attacks . Over the past 14 months , Israeli strikes on Gaza have killed at least 44,805 people and injured 106,257 , according to local reports . <p> The escalation follows a deadly assault by Hamas on October 7 , 2023 , which left 1,139 people dead in Israel and more than 200 taken hostage . Israel launched its intense military campaign in response . <p> Ceasefire efforts continue <p> As the attacks persist , efforts to broker a ceasefire continue . US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan is set to visit Israel this week to discuss a potential truce and other regional issues . According to National Security Council spokesman Sean Savett , Sullivan will meet with Israeli officials to discuss " efforts to reach a hostage release and ceasefire deal in Gaza , the latest developments in Syria , and for discussions about Lebanon and Iran . " 
@@118739201 <p> GENEVA : The UN on Wednesday appealed for $4.07 billion to provide desperately needed aid in war-ravaged Gaza and the West Bank next year , saying that the actual amount needed was far higher . <p> The aim will be to provide assistance to " the entire population of Gaza , estimated at 2.1 million people , and 900,000 people in the West Bank , " the United Nations humanitarian agency OCHA said in its appeal . <p> It said that the actual needs amounted to " at least $6.6 billion " , but suggested that Israeli constraints placed on aid delivery meant it would be difficult to scale up operations to that level . <p> " To be able to implement the full scale of what is urgently needed , Israel must take immediate and effective measures to ensure the essential needs of civilians are met , " the appeal said . <p> " Humanitarian actors anticipate being limited in what they can achieve in 2025 due to severe restrictions ... and ever greater challenges to their ability to operate , including intensified and coordinated anti-UN rhetoric strategically aimed at delegitimizing humanitarian efforts , " the appeal said . <p> If all sides fully complied with international law , OCHA said it would be possible to deliver aid to the tune of $6.6 billion . <p> But " assuming humanitarian actors will continue to face a constrained operating environment , the 2025 OPT Flash Appeal calls for $4 billion of this amount " , it said . <p> That , it said , meant that aid would reach three million people , rather than the 3.3 million in dire need . <p> Stressing that " the speed and scale of the killing and destruction in the Gaza Strip are unlike anything seen in recent history " , OCHA cautioned that " without sustained solutions to end the violence , humanitarian needs will continue to rise " . <p> It called among other things for safe and sustained access to all people in need across the occupied Palestinian territories , enabling the entry into Gaza of humanitarian goods at scale . 
@@118739274 <p> JERUSALEM : Israeli Defence Minister Israel Katz told his US counterpart Lloyd Austin on Wednesday that there was " currently a chance " for a deal to release the remaining hostages held in Gaza for more than 14 months . <p> " There is currently a chance for a new deal " , Katz told Austin in a phone call , according to a readout from his office . <p> " We are hoping for the release of all the hostages , including US citizens , " he said . <p> The US , along with Egypt and Qatar , has been unsuccessfully attempting to mediate a ceasefire and hostage release deal between Israel and the Palestinian group Hamas for more than a year . <p> Palestinian took 251 people hostage during Hamas 's surprise attack on October 7 , 2023 . A total of 96 remain in Gaza , including 34 the Israeli military has confirmed are dead . <p> In recent days , there have been signs that months of failed negotiations might be revived and a breakthrough achieved . <p> On Monday , a source close to Hamas told AFP that the group had told Egypt 's spy chief of " efforts to collect information about the living Israeli prisoners . " <p> The source said that Hamas had prepared a list of hostages who were still alive , including several prisoners with dual Israeli and US citizenship . <p> " If Israel agrees to the Egyptian proposal , I think the exchange deal will be ready for implementation , " the source said . <p> Another upbeat assessment came from Qatar , which said on Saturday the election of Donald Trump as the next US president had created new " momentum " for negotiations . <p> At the same time , a source close to the Hamas delegation said that Turkey , as well as Egypt and Qatar , had been " making commendable efforts to stop the war , " and a new round of talks could begin soon . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu also hinted at potential progress , telling the families of hostages that Israel 's military successes against Hezbollah and Hamas would facilitate negotiations for their release . <p> Protesters , including relatives of the hostages , have repeatedly called for a deal to free the captives and accuse Netanyahu of prolonging the war for political purposes . <p> The unprecedented October 7 attack resulted in the deaths of 1,208 people , mostly civilians , according to an AFP tally based on official figures . <p> Israel 's retaliatory military campaign in Gaza has killed at least 44,805 people , a majority civilians , according to figures from the Hamas-run territory 's health ministry which the UN considers reliable . <p> Seven individuals with US citizenship remain in Gaza , with four confirmed dead . Last week , the Israeli military notified the family of US-Israeli soldier Omer Neutra that he was killed on October 7 and his body held in Gaza . 
@@118739354 <h> Bilawal calls for united efforts to safeguard human rights <p> KARACHI - Chairman of Pakistan Peoples Party ( PPP ) Bilawal Bhutto Zardari on Tuesday called for united efforts to safeguard and promote human rights as the cornerstone of a just , inclusive , and peaceful society . <p> In his message on the occasion of International Human Rights Day being observed globally on December 10 , he said that human rights are universal rights and can not be compromised anywhere . <p> Reflecting on the United Nations ' 2024 theme , " Our Rights , Our Future , Right Now , " Chairman Bilawal Bhutto Zardari underscored that the realization of human rights is pivotal for a sustainable and prosperous future . He stated , " Human rights are not mere ideals to aspire to but essential building blocks for dignity , equality , and justice . The future of any society depends on guaranteeing these rights to all individuals without discrimination . " <p> The PPP Chairman reiterated the Party 's steadfast commitment to upholding the constitutional rights introduced in the landmark Constitution of 1973 by Shaheed Zulfikar Ali Bhutto . He highlighted how Quaid-e-Awam 's vision of " One citizen , one vote " laid the foundation for empowering the people as the true source of power in Pakistan . He also praised the legacy of Shaheed Mohtarma Benazir Bhutto , the first female Prime Minister of the Islamic world , who championed human rights through transformative initiatives . These included preventing gender discrimination by advancing women 's autonomy , enacting laws to prevent honor killings and violence against women , repealing authoritarian-era laws to protect freedom of expression , and safeguarding the rights of minorities and workers . <p> Bilawal further lauded President Asif Ali Zardari 's historic contributions to human rights during his presidency , notably through the 18th Constitutional Amendment , which restored democratic principles and safeguarded human rights . He highlighted the addition of Article 25-A , ensuring the right to education as a constitutional guarantee , and the enactment of laws against workplace harassment and domestic violence . <p> Under President Zardari 's leadership , Pakistan also signed several international conventions and charters on human rights , promoting the true spirit of Pakistani society globally . Initiatives like the Benazir Income Support Program ( BISP ) provided a social safety net for disadvantaged segments , particularly poor women , further demonstrating the PPP 's commitment to inclusivity and social justice . <p> Chairman PPP urged the federal and provincial governments to intensify their efforts in protecting civil liberties , advancing inclusive development , and ensuring equal opportunities for all citizens , particularly the vulnerable and marginalized . He encouraged the youth to actively defend their rights , emphasizing that their involvement is vital for shaping a brighter future . <p> Bilawal praised the Sindh government for approval of Human Rights Policy and stressed for its phase-wise implementation by the line departments to protect and protect human rights . <p> Expressing deep concern over ongoing human rights violations worldwide , particularly in Indian Illegally Occupied Jammu and Kashmir ( IIOJK ) and Gaza , Bilawal Bhutto Zardari called upon the international community to take meaningful action against these injustices and recommit to the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights . He reaffirmed the PPP 's unwavering dedication to championing the rights of every citizen and striving for a Pakistan that embodies the ideals of freedom , equality , and justice . " The PPP firmly believes that the people are the true source of power , and their rights are inviolable , " he stated . 
@@118758756 <h> The resolution , which is non-binding , also demands " immediate access " to widespread humanitarian aid for the citizens of Gaza <p> The UN General Assembly is set to vote on a resolution calling for an immediate , unconditional , and permanent ceasefire in Gaza . <p> This vote follows an overwhelming call from member states for a halt to hostilities amid the ongoing conflict that has resulted in significant civilian casualties and humanitarian crises in the region . <p> The draft resolution aims to ensure humanitarian access and compliance with international humanitarian law , reflecting a growing international consensus on the need for urgent action to protect civilians . <p> There has been substantial backing from various countries , with 153 votes expected in favour while 23 countries are anticipated to abstain from voting . <p> This vote comes after more than 14 months of conflict , which escalated following Hamas 's attack on October 7 , 2023 . The situation has led to widespread destruction and a dire humanitarian situation in Gaza , prompting calls for urgent intervention . <p> In a related development , Amnesty International has criticized the U.S. for its apparent support of Israeli Defense Minister Yoav Gallant , despite an arrest warrant issued by the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) against him . <p> This criticism highlights ongoing tensions regarding international accountability and the perceived complicity of nations in the Israeli military actions against Palestinians . <p> UN Official Urges ' Political Will ' to Address Gaza Crisis <p> The UN 's senior humanitarian and reconstruction coordinator for Gaza , Sigrid Kaag , emphasized the urgent need for political will to tackle the worsening humanitarian crisis in Gaza , Anadolu reports . <p> " I have painted a very , very bleak picture as civilians in Gaza continue to suffer , " Kaag said after a closed UN Security Council session . She added , " Nothing prepares you for what you see , what you hear , and the conversations you 're having with Palestinians in Gaza . " <p> Having observed Gaza over three decades , Kaag noted , " We are at a low point . " <p> OyeYeah is an entertainment project powered by Alliancez Inc . We 're motivated to digging up fresh , authentic news . Oye Yeah does not work on rumors ! We have all sourced news because we believe in bringing our readers the best . We have a vision and we 're striving hard to achieve it day in , day out ! 
@@118784131 <p> In retaliation to Hamas ' October 7 , 2023 attacks , Israel 's devastating ongoing military onslaught has killed more than 44,800 Palestinians and injured nearly 106,356 -- with the death toll feared to be much higher due to thousands still missing under the rubble . <p> Much of Gaza has been laid to waste in the conflict , with some two-thirds of its buildings damaged or destroyed . Most of the strip 's 2.3 million people have been made homeless , sheltering in places like the Jabalia refugee camp . Those camps themselves came under fire as Israel said it was going after fighters using the places as shields , an accusation Hamas denies . <p> This story contains sensitive material and images that may offend or disturb . <p> A press vest lies on the body of a Palestinian journalist Hamza Al-Dahdouh , the son of Al Jazeera journalist Wael Al-Dahdouh , after Hamza was killed in an Israeli strike , during his funeral in Rafah in the southern Gaza Strip , on January 7 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> Many of Gaza 's inhabitants , including its children , faced supply shortages and hunger . Israel is facing accusations of committing genocide in Gaza by international NGOs as the International Court of Justice runs proceedings to determine Israel 's culpability . <p> Judges at the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) have also issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , his former defence chief and a Hamas leader for alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity . <p> Palestinians work to extinguish a fire at the site of an Israeli strike on a tent camp for displaced people , amid the Israeli invasion of Gaza , in Deir Al-Balah in the central Gaza Strip on August 4 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> As the death toll rose in Gaza , violence also surged in the Israeli-occupied West Bank , while at the Israel-Lebanon border Hezbollah exchanged fire with Israeli troops . <p> In October , Israel invaded Lebanon and ratcheted up its attacks on Hezbollah with intensified strikes on southern Lebanon and in parts of the capital Beirut . Lebanon 's government said more than 2,600 people were killed and villages near the border emptied during Israel 's invasion of Lebanon . <p> Mourners carry the coffins of Hezbollah members Fadel Abbas Bazzi and Ahmad Ali Hassan , after hand-held radios and pagers used by Hezbollah were detonated across Lebanon by Israel allegedly , during their funeral in Ghobeiry , Beirut on September 19 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> A string of assassinations of militant leaders hurt Hezbollah and Hamas and were celebrated as triumphs by Israel , although domestically the government also faced protests for its failure to secure the return of all the hostages . On a " Day of Disruption " in May , demonstrators held up Israeli flags and photos of those still being held hostage in Gaza . <p> A person covers themselves with a sign as police use water cannons to disperse demonstrators during a protest against Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's government in Tel Aviv , Israel on Feb 24 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> After Israel bombed the Iranian embassy in Syria , Iran engaged in tit-for-tat strikes with Israel , raising fears of a wider war that could draw in the Israel-allied United States . <p> In late November , a ceasefire was agreed between Israel and Hezbollah -- a rare ray of hope although sporadic Israeli attacks in Lebanon continue . <p> A woman reacts at the site of an Israeli strike in Beirut 's Basta neighbourhood , amid the Israeli invasion of Lebanon on November 23 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> Taking advantage of a weakened Hezbollah , which like Iran was on the back foot after the conflict with Israel , Syrian rebels launched a wide offensive against the army of President Bashar al-Assad . In little more than a week in December , the five-decade rule of the Assad family came to an end as the rebels swept through the country . <p> Israeli forces have also started an incursion into Syria while conducting more than 350 airstrikes in the country since the fall of Assad . <p> What 2025 will bring for Syrians , Lebanese , Palestinians , Israelis and others who live in the war-torn region remains to be seen . <p> Palestinians wait to receive food during Ramadan , in Rafah , in the southern Gaza Strip on March 13 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> Twins Wesam and Naeem Abu Anza will never get to find out or to know peace . Born in late 2023 in Gaza after hostilities broke out , the infant boy and girl were buried in March of this year after being killed in an Israel airstrike in Rafah , according to Gaza authorities . <p> Palestinian woman Buthayna Abu Jazar reacts as she holds the hand of her son Hamza , who was killed in an Israeli strike in Rafah , in the southern Gaza Strip on May 9 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> Smoke and flames rise in Beirut 's southern suburbs , after Israeli air strikes , amid the Israeli invasion of Lebanon , as seen from Sin El Fil , Lebanon on October 6 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> A man walks on a poster of Bashar al-Assad as a sanitation worker removes it from the street downtown , after Syrian rebels announced that they have ousted Assad , in Damascus , Syria on December 10 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> Header image : Smoke rises from Gaza , amid Israel 's offensive against Hamas , as seen from Israel 's border with Gaza , in southern Israel , on March 17 , 2024. -- Reuters 
@@118784134 <p> " We honour the extraordinary resilience , bravery and courage of journalists working in the most perilous conditions to document the realities of the Gaza crisis . " <p> Mohamed Duar , Amnesty International Australia 's Occupied Palestinian Territory spokesperson , said , " Freedom of the press is essential to enable democratic and free societies . Freedom of information is a fundamental human right . Journalists and the media are crucial to ensure transparency and accountability . Yet media freedom and the safety of journalists are under threat around the globe . Each attack on journalists is an attack on press , freedom and truth . Journalists are not and should never be a target . " <p> Owda , 27 , thanked the organisation for the recognition and for its efforts in shedding light on the situation in Gaza . <p> " I 'm here , in front of you , surviving more than 420 days . Surviving being killed by bombing , while I am helping my people by spreading the truth and documenting the genocide . I do n't find anything more honourable on earth than defending the rights of defenceless people , the oppressed people . " <p> Alaqad said the award was a powerful reminder that the journalists ' work was far from over and it fueled her determination to continue advocating for Palestinians and ensuring their voices are never forgotten . <p> He added that the day the award was conferred on him coincided with the day of his father 's martyrdom after Israeli forces targeted his house . Al-Sharif also dedicated the award to his father . <p> " What I hope to achieve is to provide international protection for the Palestinian journalists so they can continue , until their last breath , to transmit images and words from inside Gaza , in the complete absence of foreign and Western media . " <p> Shihab-Eldin said he was honoured and humbled to be among the bravest journalists risking everything to ensure people were informed . <p> " They have taught me so much about what it means to bear witness , and what it means to be human . " <p> The awards come shortly after Amnesty International , in a recent report , stated that it found " sufficient basis to conclude that Israel has committed and is continuing to commit genocide against Palestinians in the occupied Gaza Strip . " 
@@118784135 <p> Two films by Palestinian filmmakers premiered at the Red Sea International Film Festival depict the struggles of Palestinian families , especially the youth , as they struggle to survive homelessness caused by Israeli atrocities and frequent offensives . Yalla Parkour and To a Land Unknown have been directed by filmmakers who are the second generation of Palestinian refugees . <p> Yalla Parkour is a documentary kind of poetic monologue of Areeb Zuaiter with her late mother as well as an online dialogue with a young boy , Ahmed , from the Gaza Strip . The narrative shifts from the personal story and collective memory of her family and its life in Palestine to the life of fun-loving boys doing parkour tricks despite violence all around them . <p> The boys , including Ahmed , hop around and climb the rundown , bombed building structures , incomplete shopping malls and destroyed parking plazas that symbolise shattered dreams of the Palestinians . <p> They have a devil-may-care attitude towards the tough life in the face of Israeli offensive and go about their business of parkour , performing acrobatic feats where they find the place . Ahmed records them in short videos and posts them online . <p> Director Areeb Zuaiter found one such video showing boys frolicking with smoke from bomb explosions billowing in the background . She contacted Ahmed who was then a boy entering his teens . This was way back in 2014 . <p> In the film , Ahmed talks about the resilience of the people of Gaza , terming them different as what they put up with is unbelievable . The documentary records the ambitions of Ahmed of getting out of Gaza during his recorded calls with Areeb . <p> " I knew the team of boys doing acrobatics in 2014 when I started the video and the ' bombing video ' of Ahmed . Before the current Israeli offensive , it was the longest offensive on Gaza followed by another one in 2015 and then 2018 and then 2020 . They were always able to put up with that , " she said while speaking about the film . <p> Areeb herself and her family are the second part of the film which moves alternately from the story of Ahmed to Areeb 's mother and her own identity . <p> " There is a layer of theme of identity in the film . I was born in Nablus ( West Bank ) but I never lived there . We left as soon as I was born , then we lived in Riyadh and Lebanon , Jordan and then the US . I have a sense of loss of identity somehow , especially when I was young , I had a different accent and my cousins used to bully me , saying you do n't speak like Palestinians , " says the director . <p> Ahmed 's parkour feats help him get out of the country and move to Sweden ; however , his family is still stuck in Gaza . <p> To a question about what happened to Ahmed 's mom and family , she said their house was bombed and they lost most of their house except one room and she decided to go back as she found it hard to see Ahmed 's mom because she decided at the end that she did not want to live in other people 's houses or in refugee camps and returned to her destroyed home . She said the young Ahmed is taking therapy in Sweden to deal with the situation of helplessness . <p> Areeb said the documentary film changed her a lot at the personal level . " I never expected that I would make this film as I never anticipated my mom 's story and our relationship to be exposed in a film . It was a journey as well as self-discovery . " <p> To a Land Unknown , a feature film directed by a Danish-Palestinian filmmaker , tells the story of two Palestinian cousins , stuck in Athens , Greece , on their way to Germany as immigrants . With their families living in refugee camps in Lebanon , waiting for them to make it to the land of their dreams and support them , they , Chatila and Reda , get stuck in Athens . <p> They struggle to even make ends meet and turn to petty crimes for sustenance . As they try to keep hold of their life in a foreign land , they keep falling into deeper troubles as they make an attempt at human trafficking to make enough money to cross borders . What keeps them going is the daydreaming of having a hotel business in Berlin . The younger cousin , Reda , feels worse about living conditions and wants to return to his " home " due to homesickness . However , his mother pushes him further to a better life . <p> The film does not give false hope to viewers and depicts the reality of Palestinian refugees turned homeless by Israel . It does not try to create heroes of a fantasy world but shows the two main characters as real young men unable to change their lives . 
@@118784159 <p> Richard Grenell , a top advisor to former US President Donald Trump and former Acting Director of National Intelligence , speaks to the attendees of a Muslims and Bangladeshi Americans for Trump outreach event in Hamtramck , Michigan , US on November 2. -- Reuters/File <p> President-elect Donald Trump is now considering tapping Richard Grenell , his former intelligence chief , to be a special envoy for Iran , according to two people familiar with the transition plans . <p> " He 's definitely in the running , " said a person familiar with transition deliberations , who asked not to be identified . <p> No final decisions on either personnel or strategy on Iran have been made official yet by Trump , including whether to slap fresh sanctions on the country , pursue diplomacy or both in order to halt their nuclear programme . <p> Neither Trump 's team nor Grenell responded to requests for comment . <p> Trump 's plans for the role have not previously been reported . <p> But his consideration of a key ally for such a posting sends a signal to the region that the new US president may be open to talks with a country he has previously threatened and whose elite Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps have sought to assassinate him , according to the US government . <p> Iran has denied the claim . <p> In the role , Grenell is expected to be tasked with speaking with countries in and beyond the region about the Iran issue as well as taking Tehran 's temperature on possible negotiations , said one of the people . <p> Iran 's President Masoud Pezeshkian , who is viewed as relatively moderate , said following Trump 's election that Tehran must " deal with the US " and " manage " relations with its arch-foe . <p> Iran has suffered a series of strategic setbacks , including Israel 's assault on Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon and the ouster of Bashar al-Assad in Syria . <p> But tensions remain high more than a year after Hamas attacked southern Israel , launching the onslaught in Gaza . <p> Meanwhile , other Iranian proxies have attacked US , Israeli and other Western targets , and Tehran has accelerated its nuclear program while limiting the UN nuclear watchdog 's ability to monitor it . <p> It 's not the first job Trump has considered for Grenell , who served as Trump 's ambassador to Germany , a special presidential envoy for Serbia and Kosovo peace negotiations , and as acting director of national intelligence during Trump 's 2017-2021 term . <p> After campaigning for Trump in the lead-up to the November 5 election , he was a top contender to be secretary of state and special envoy for the Ukraine war . <p> Those jobs went to US Senator Marco Rubio and retired lieutenant general Keith Kellogg , respectively . <p> Trump takes office next month . <p> During his first term in office , in 2020 , Trump ordered a US air strike that killed Iran 's top military commander Qassem Soleimani . <p> Trump in 2018 also reneged on a nuclear deal struck by his predecessor Barack Obama in 2015 and re-imposed US economic sanctions on Iran that had been relaxed . The deal had limited Iran 's ability to enrich uranium , a process that can yield fissile material for nuclear weapons . <p> Iran now is " dramatically " accelerating enrichment of uranium to up to 60 per cent purity , close to the roughly 90pc level that is weapons grade , the UN nuclear watchdog chief told Reuters last week . <p> Iran says its nuclear program only serves peaceful purposes . <h> Trump invites China 's Xi Jinping to inauguration : report <p> In a separate development , Trump has invited Chinese President Xi Jinping to attend his inauguration next month , CBS Newsreported on Wednesday , citing multiple sources . <p> The invitation to the January 20 inauguration in Washington occurred in early November , shortly after the Nov 5 presidential election , and it was not clear if it had been accepted , CBS reported . <p> The Chinese embassy in Washington did not immediately respond to a request for comment . <p> Trump said in an interview with NBC News conducted on Friday that he " got along with very well " with Xi and that they had " had communication as recently as this week " . <p> It would be unprecedented for a leader of China , a top US geopolitical rival , to attend a US presidential inauguration . <p> Trump has named numerous China hawks to key posts in his incoming administration , including Senator Marco Rubio as secretary of state . <p> The president-elect has said he will impose an additional 10pc tariff on Chinese goods unless Beijing does more to stop trafficking of the highly addictive narcotic fentanyl . He also threatened tariffs in excess of 60pc on Chinese goods while on the campaign trail . <p> In late November , China 's state media warned Trump that his pledge to slap additional tariffs on Chinese goods over fentanyl flows could drag the world 's top two economies into a mutually destructive tariff war . <p> Separately on Wednesday , China 's US Ambassador Xie Feng read a letter from Xi to a US-China Business Council gala in Washington , in which the Chinese leader said Beijing was prepared to stay in communication with the US . <p> " We should choose dialogue over confrontation and win-win cooperation over zero-sum games , " Xi said in the letter . <p> Xie added that the two countries should not decouple supply chains . But Nicholas Burns , the US ambassador to Beijing , said in a prerecorded video address that China at times tried to " sugar coat " challenging and competitive relations . 
@@118784172 <p> Senate passed a unanimous resolution on Thursday condemning Israel 's ongoing military campaign in Gaza and Lebanon , urging the international community to take immediate action to protect Palestinian lives and hold Israel accountable for war crimes . <p> The resolution , which was introduced by Senator Sherry Rehman of the Pakistan Peoples Party ( PPP ) on behalf of all political parties , denounced Israel 's actions as a blatant violation of international law , particularly in its attacks on Palestine . <p> The Senate also condemned Israel 's exploitation of Syria 's political vacuum following the fall of Bashar al-Assad 's government earlier this week . <p> " The Senate strongly condemns Israel 's blatant disregard for international law , " the resolution stated , also calling for Israel to be held accountable for its actions . <p> The Senate condemned the killing of United Nations Relief and Works Agency ( UNRWA ) staff , with reports indicating that 249 UNRWA personnel had been killed by Israeli forces up to November 2023 . <p> The resolution also highlighted the killing of over 180 journalists in Gaza and the destruction of vital infrastructure , including hospitals , schools , and residential areas , as part of Israel 's military campaign . <p> " The Senate reaffirms Pakistan 's unwavering support for the Palestinian cause , recognizing it as a moral , political , and legal obligation , " the resolution read . Pakistan reiterated its commitment to the two-state solution for Palestine , based on internationally recognised borders and with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital . <p> Pakistan has consistently raised the issue of Israel 's actions at the United Nations , the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation ( OIC ) , and other multilateral platforms , urging international powers to stop the Israeli military actions in Gaza . <p> The resolution also called on the global community to uphold international humanitarian law and protect Palestinian lives . It further urged the international community to hold Israel accountable for its military actions , particularly those in Gaza and Lebanon . <p> Pakistan has been a vocal critic of Israel , which it does not recognise diplomatically , and has called for the creation of an independent Palestinian state based on the pre-1967 borders . <p> Since the beginning of Israel 's military operations in Gaza , Pakistan has dispatched 1,273 tons of humanitarian aid to the region , according to the National Disaster Management Authority . 
@@118784213 <h> ' World has gone a little crazy ' <p> The writer is a political , security and defence analyst . He tweets @shazchy09 and can be contacted at shhzdchdhry@yahoo.com <p> President-elect Donald Trump said this in France as news rolled in of Syrian regime folding before the rebel onslaught of largely the HTS - a group known to have risen from asking for basic rights some 13 years back . That Damascus fell and the HTS now has replaced the forever ruler of Syria , Bashar al-Assad , is history on repeat . The Assads empire lasted for only 54 years - Dad Assad ruled by force and ruthless repression for thirty of those while Son Assad could only make 24 years . As HTS workers called out in the dungeons of the presidential palace below where prisoners had been kept for years at stretch , they shouted back , " who are you ? " , unsure if they were being set up for yet another calamitous end to their lives already hanging by the tether . <p> Iqbal said this decades ago : Taqdeer ke qazi ka yeh fatwa hai azal se ; Hai jurm-e zaeefi ki saza marg-e mafajaat ( Death is the ultimate arbiter for pervasive weakness ) - sorry , I could n't do it any better . But you get the gist . Syria was the last bastion in the throes of an Arab Spring of 2011 when young man asking for fundamental rights were crushed by the regime lest the Spring found an anchor . As nation after nation reeled before the phenomenon Bashar al-Assad held off with assistance from Iran and Russia . Initially Turkey too helped but she has been a strange companion needing separate treatment . Iran and Russia were understandable supporters of the regime given that the US was at the back of the entire upheaval around revolution in digital connectivity . Those that were zaeef ( frail and fragile ) were easily swept away by this tsunami of people 's uprising . <p> But why and how was Syria , the inheritors of Mesopotamia and Babylon , so enfeebled under another dynastic stint in the modern times ? When force wins you power through non-democratic authority - Dad Assad was the commander of the Syrian Air Force when he forced a coup - and establish the rule through oppression , suppression and repression the cycle of history repeats leaving no chance than to submit to popular discontent . Millions were forced to flee and escape the turmoil under his ruthless reign . Popular opinion was easily tweaked to give Dad Assad the perpetuity in power . When he finally died , he handed power over to the son as was the wont of monarchist autocracies . The people below were forcibly muted as military forces reigned over them marginalising masses . <p> The dad and the son had a choice : establish systems of governance enabling the common man his right to life and property in equal measures for all , or rule by decree . Both chose the latter and ruled by decree . Syrians in millions were forced to leave and live as diaspora across the world . Many have felt exuberantly relieved at this change of fortune though what might follow will hardly resemble reassuring order . If at all it is another Libya in the making where only boundaries denote , with fiefs divided between sharecroppers without a central authority to mimic a state . With five different axes of advance from five different directions by the respective militant groups often in contention against each other , Syria will be the playground of the armed resistance fighters of various denominations under respective patrons for a long time . Iraq exhibits that even better . Turkey , Israel , the US , possibly Iraq and Iran , remnants of ISIS and AQIS , and Russia who has bases in Syria , all have a finger in the pie . <p> As the chain of Middle East autocracies began unravelling Syria was equally buffeted with its multi-ethnic and multi-faith composition . That armed groups had found root there from Iraq , Lebanon and Iran meant the authority of the central government was already limited and compromised . Three patrons helped at a cost - Iran , which began using Syria as a conduit to sustain Hamas and Hezbollah ; Hezbollah which used Syria as its strategic depth in return for propelling the Bashar al-Assad order in the face of melting reliability and professional capacity of Syrian armed forces ; and , Russia which formed an air and a naval base to mind its strategic interests in the region and the Mediterranean even as it gave Bashar al-Assad the assurance of its security . Syria thus remained in the crosshairs for all the wrong reasons . The force of the Spring may have been quietened for a bit , but it was never dead . As soon as the environment enabled an artificially kept order was dismantled in hours . <p> A weakened and dependent Syria , divided along ethnic and sectarian lines , manifested by militancy and armed groups , patronised by international and regional players each with its own strategic interest to mind , minus a central direction in a fragmented nation stood dissolved at the hand of an organic sentiment . A leadership - the Assad duo - who ruled by decree than any real investment in their people was as easily dispensed away in divine relief by the masses . They have been celebrating since even as ushers of the new order discover floor upon floor of underground prisons filled with women and children incarcerated in dungeons . A leadership which rules by fear , suppression and decree and leaves no breathing space will soon find the end of its tether even if it had seemed long in perpetuity . People 's will must be respected , or they will soon have ideas . Force alone will not keep them aligned . <p> Highly accomplished and prosperous Syrians live across the street from my brother 's in the US . They were from the first migrants from the 1970s Syria of Dad Assad . Patriotic to the core they have remained committed to their homeland through lavish contributions to the cause of freeing Syria from the tyranny of Assads . For them it has been a continuous celebration since . Their ordeal has been redeemed . They may be able to now go back home and visit the graves of their forefathers , but it will still be a long haul before Syria can return to normalcy , if at all . Israel has begun bombing to smithereens of what remains . That is Israel 's way of finishing off the last remnants of any ' ring of fire ' or a perceptible ' axis of evil ' . Strategically she sits at the peak of its own security from impending and imminent threats . It shall be a few generations down that another Hamas and another Hezbollah may find the strength for another round . Turkey , Israel and the US will hold sway over what remains as a new Syria , new Lebanon and a new Gaza beckons . What a time for someone like Trump to walk in and claim the trophy . <p> Arab Spring is not dead . Iran must be weary . Egypt and Pakistan will do well to pay heed . 
@@118784214 <h> Fleeing Assad leaves many unanswered questions <p> The writer is a geopolitical analyst . She also writes at globaltab.net and tweets @AneelaShahzad <p> On November 27 , a peace deal was struck between Lebanon and Israel . There was concern as to what would become of Gaza if Hezbollah 's arms had been tied . Ironically , the same day , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) started its Aleppo offensive . <p> HTS , a militant group that had previously been part of al-Nusra , ISIS and al-Qaeda at different times , has had a stronghold in Idlib since 2017 . While Iranian-backed militia wiped out ISIS from vast Syrian territories , the HTS was provided cover in Idlib under the Astana Process . This meant that though the US withdrew from Syria in 2019 , it still kept some bases there . Moreover , ISIS was still there in pockets ; Kurdish-led SDF and some Turkish-backed militias covered the whole north ; several militias under HTS umbrella were in Idlib ; and several other militias remained in Daraa , near the border with Israel and Jordan - meaning that the civil war had never ended , it had only subsided . <p> But there are several unanswered questions here . How does the HTS offensive connect with the Lebanon-Israel deal ? How has it been that the same Hezbollah that kept punishing Israel for its Gaza War since day one had suddenly decided to go quiet ? How is it that the same Iran and Russia that ensured Assad 's power throughout the Arab Spring and to this day suddenly decided to vanish from the scene ? How is it that several dozen Iran-backed militias spread in Iraq and Syria just went underground , and not a single fighter jet from the three bases Syria had provided Russia lifted into air ? How is it that a handful of loosely held militias , between ten and thirty thousand in strength , swayed the whole of Syria in less than ten days without facing the slightest resistance - even from the 170,000-strong Syrian Army ? <p> True , HTS was a US asset , and Turkey had influence upon it ; true that Turkey could provide direct aid to Idlib across its border . But does that mean that Turkey , just to prove its friendship with NATO , would forsake its deepening trade and strategic relations with Russia and China in the last decade . Does that mean that the same Turkey that was a part of the Astana Process along with Iran and Russia , and that ensured Western forces were driven out of Syria , and that had done the same before , in Libya in coordination with Russia - would all of a sudden allow Western interests to re-sprout in Syria ? All this is beyond probable ! <p> What is rather probable is that after the Saudi-Iran rapprochement , all the players of the Middle East and their immediate neighbours were finally able to sit together and jot a plan for the security of their region . This was the first time when the axis of resistance was bringing physical harm to Israel , and the Arabs were constantly endorsing their efforts in the diplomatic zones . There was also news of constant and frequent diplomacy between the Arabs , the Iranians and the Turks . So , instead of the possibility that each of these players was going opposite directions , it is more plausible that they were actually looking for a concerted pathway . <p> All these players were also looking forward to a coming Asian Century that promises progress and development in concert with platforms like BRI , BRICS , SPIEF . And for that to happen they would need peaceful , sovereign nations in the region - a region not covered with clouds of war all the time . And at long last with the end of the Saudi-Iran rivalry , this seemed possible . So , they all sat down to write a dramatic script that would ensure : the end of an era of a destabilised , militia-infested Syria ; end of the Gaza War ; and end of Western maneuvering in their regions . <p> If this assessment is correct then what actually happened was an understanding that the HTS will be allowed to sweep across the country sans-resistance , and Assad would be safely brought into Russia . And before that , there would have been an agreement with Israel that Hezbollah will retreat first , and within a defined time , Israel will also retreat from Gaza . <p> But if Gaza is thrown away in ashes , and the Palestinians are back-stabbed by the Ummah once again , then we would know that whatever the plan was , it was evil - and evil does not beget goodness . So without resolving Palestine , none of the Arabs , the Persians , the Russians and the Chinese will get the peace required for fulfilment of their dreams of progress . <p> In any case , the idea that this big drama could be single-handedly Turkey 's idea or that Turkey is secretly aligned to the US and Israel simply does n't add up . One must be reminded of China establishing manufacturing facilities for electric vehicles and smartphones as well as energy infrastructure in Turkey . The Turk Stream pipeline operating since 2020 , which brings Russian gas to Turkey and Europe via Turkey , is also a game changer deal for Turkey . Turkey 's previous actions have constantly hinted that it cares least for NATO and wants BRICS membership . <p> So , only time will tell whether this been a victory for the US or Israel . But can this be a trap for the US and Israel ? Perhaps yes . Because we have seen Turkey and Russia play a similar game in Libya : Russia came to the aid of Khalifa Haftar and Turkey came to the aid of the Tripoli government ; and in all this new chaos , Western players found that their role had been snatched away from them in Libya . <p> Perhaps this analysis is too optimistic . But if things happened this way , perhaps the regional players around the Middle East would have saved the region from a long and devastating war-scenario , or perhaps they would have saved the world from a third world war . 
@@118784226 <h> UN General Assembly demands immediate Gaza ceasefire <p> The UN General Assembly has voted overwhelmingly in favour of a resolution calling for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire in Gaza . <p> The resolution passed on Wednesday was introduced by Egypt . <p> The non-binding resolution passed with 158 votes in favour in the 193-member assembly . <p> This demand for a ceasefire was expressed in more urgent terms than similar calls made in previous months . The UN had previously called for a humanitarian truce in Gaza in October 2023 and later demanded a ceasefire in December 2023 . <p> Osama Abdelkhalek , Egypt 's ambassador to the UN , emphasised that the resolution was " the only guarantee for saving innocent civilians " and criticised what he described as " despicable " double standards surrounding Palestinian issues . <p> He specifically pointed to a minority of countries that opposed the resolution , citing Israel 's right to defend itself as a key reason for their stance . <p> While General Assembly resolutions are not legally binding , they carry significant political weight and reflect global opinions on the conflict . <p> The US , Israel , and seven other countries voted against the resolution , while 13 countries abstained . <p> Israel 's Ambassador to the UN , Gilad Erdan , argued that a ceasefire would benefit Hamas , stating that it would undermine efforts to neutralize the group . <p> In addition to the ceasefire resolution , the UN also passed a second resolution with 159 votes in favour , expressing support for the UN Palestinian relief agency ( UNRWA ) . <p> This resolution condemned a new Israeli law set to ban UNRWA 's operations in Israel from late January 2025 , urging Israel to respect the agency 's mandate and allow its operations to proceed without obstruction . <p> The US , Israel , and seven other countries also voted against this resolution , while 11 countries abstained . <p> The Deputy U.S. Ambassador to the UN , Robert Wood , criticized both resolutions , arguing that they failed to address key issues such as the release of hostages and the need for humanitarian aid to Palestinians . <p> He stated that one resolution " rewards Hamas " and the other " denigrates Israel " without offering a clear path forward for increasing aid to Palestinian civilians . <p> Countries Voting No and Abstaining <p> Countries that voted against the resolutions included the United States , Israel , Austria , Czech Republic , Guatemala , Liberia , Micronesia , Nauru , Papua New Guinea , and Paraguay . <p> In a notable shift , some US allies , including Canada , Australia , and Japan , which had previously abstained from similar votes , joined over 30 other countries in supporting the ceasefire resolution . <p> Several Asian countries , including India and South Korea , which had abstained in October , also voted in favor . <p> Countries in the Middle East and North Africa , including Muslim and Arab nations , which have been vocal in their condemnation of Israel 's military actions in Gaza , also supported the resolution . <p> South American nations , including Bolivia -- who cut diplomatic ties with Israel over the conflict -- along with Chile and Colombia , which recalled their ambassadors , also voted in favor . Pakistan and many other countries similarly backed the call for a ceasefire in Gaza . 
@@118784295 <p> TEL AVIV : Visiting US National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan said on Thursday that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu appeared prepared to negotiate a deal for the release of hostages held in Gaza and a ceasefire . <p> " We 're now looking to close a hostage release deal and a ceasefire ( in Gaza ) . It 's time to finish the job and bring all of the hostages home ... I got the sense from the prime minister he 's ready to do a deal , " Sullivan said at a press conference at the Tel Aviv annex of the US embassy in Jerusalem , after meeting Netanyahu . <p> There has been growing optimism that a new round of talks for a ceasefire and hostage release deal might succeed , with key mediator Qatar talking of new " momentum " last week . <p> Some of Netanyahu 's critics at home and abroad have accused him of stalling in negotiations , while Israel has repeatedly blamed Hamas for delays . <p> Sullivan said that Hamas 's approach to the negotiations had changed , attributing it to the overthrow of their ally Bashar al-Assad in Syria and the ceasefire that went into effect in the war between Israel and another ally , Lebanese group Hezbollah . <p> Hamas , Hezbollah and Assad have all been backed by Iran . <p> " I do believe the ceasefire in Lebanon has generated a different context , " said Sullivan , citing " the loss of Iran 's client state in Syria " . <p> He added that " Israel 's military progress against Hamas 's infrastructure formations and senior leaders has contributed to that context " too . <p> In recent months , multiple Hamas leaders have been killed , including its top two figures Yahya Sinwar in Gaza and Ismail Haniyeh in an explosion in Tehran . <p> " The balance of power in the Middle East has changed significantly , and not in the way that Sinwar , or ( slain Hezbollah chief Hassan ) Nasrallah or Iran had planned " , Sullivan said . <p> " We are now faced with a dramatically reshaped Middle East in which Israel is stronger , Iran is weaker . " <p> Sullivan added that previously Hamas " was waiting for lots of other actors and forces to come to the rescue " , but the Lebanon ceasefire " decoupled " the conflicts on Israel 's southern and northern fronts . <p> " And from that moment forward , we 've had a different character to the negotiations " on Gaza , he said . <p> Sullivan said he would travel onwards to Qatar and Egypt -- both longtime mediators between Israel and Hamas -- in a bid to secure progress in negotiations . <p> The war in Gaza was sparked by Hamas 's October 7 , 2023 attack which resulted in the deaths of 1,208 people , mostly civilians , according to an AFP tally based on official figures that include hostages killed in captivity . <p> Hamas abducted 251 hostages , 96 of whom remain in Gaza , including 34 the Israeli military says are dead . <p> Israel 's retaliatory offensive has killed at least 44,835 people in Gaza , a majority of them civilians , according to figures from the Hamas-run health ministry that the United Nations considers reliable . 
@@118784324 <h> UN appeals for $4 bn in Gaza , West Bank aid in 2025 <p> Geneva - The UN on Wednesday appealed for $4.07 billion to provide desperately needed aid in war-ravaged Gaza and the West Bank next year , saying that the actual amount needed was far higher . <p> The aim will be to provide assistance to " the entire population of Gaza , estimated at 2.1 million people , and 900,000 people in the West Bank , " the United Nations humanitarian agency OCHA said in its appeal . <p> It said that the actual needs amounted to " at least $6.6 billion " , but suggested that Israeli constraints placed on aid delivery meant it would be difficult to scale up operations to that level . <p> " To be able to implement the full scale of what is urgently needed , Israel must take immediate and effective measures to ensure the essential needs of civilians are met , " the appeal said " Humanitarian actors anticipate being limited in what they can achieve in 2025 due to severe restrictions ... and ever greater challenges to their ability to operate , including intensified and coordinated anti-UN rhetoric strategically aimed at delegitimizing humanitarian efforts , " the appeal said . <p> If all sides fully complied with international law , OCHA said it would be possible to deliver aid to the tune of $6.6 billion . <p> But " assuming humanitarian actors will continue to face a constrained operating environment , the 2025 OPT Flash Appeal calls for $4 billion of this amount " , it said . <p> That , it said , meant that aid would reach three million people , rather than the 3.3 million in dire need . Stressing that " the speed and scale of the killing and destruction in the Gaza Strip are unlike anything seen in recent history " , OCHA cautioned that " without sustained solutions to end the violence , humanitarian needs will continue to rise " . <p> It called among other things for safe and sustained access to all people in need across the occupied Palestinian territories , enabling the entry into Gaza of humanitarian goods at scale . 
@@118784341 <h> Women , children among 22 martyred in Israel strike on Gaza house <p> Gaza Strip , Palestinian Territories - Gaza 's civil defence agency said on Wednesday that an overnight Israeli air strike in the northern part of the Palestinian territory killed at least 22 people , including women and children . <p> " At least 22 people were martyred in the massacre committed by the occupation military after it bombed a house belonging to the Abu al-Tarabish family near Kamal Adwan hospital in northern Gaza , " agency spokesman Mahmud Bassal told AFP . Bassal said that an Israeli jet had fired three missiles at the house around midnight , adding the strike completely destroyed the three-storey structure . More than 50 people were living in the house , he said , with many still under the rubble . <p> " Rescuers were unable to evacuate the martyrs or the wounded until this morning , " said Jaber Alian , 30 , who witnessed the strike from a house near the hospital . 
@@118784343 <h> UN special rapporteur calls for halt to direct arms sales to Israel , review of its UN credentials <p> Francesca Albanese , the United Nations special rapporteur on Palestine , on Wednesday called for a halt to direct arms transfers to Israel and a review of Israel 's UN credentials to demonstrate that impunity will not be tolerated . <p> She made these remarks during a news conference on " Human rights violations in Gaza and across the occupied Palestinian territory " at the United Nations in Geneva , adding that more than 44,000 people have been ascertained killed by Israeli snipers and bombs , 70% of whom are women and children . <p> " More than 100,000 and still counting are the wounded . Thousands are unable to be treated , let alone cured for the most basic diseases , and if it was not enough , they will now have to go through the second winter living in makeshift camps without adequate food or clothing , " she said <p> Albanese spoke along with Margaret Satterthwaite , special rapporteur on the independence of judges and lawyers ; Ben Saul , special rapporteur on the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms while countering terrorism , and George Katrougalos , special rapporteur on promoting a democratic and equitable international order . <p> The press conference explained human rights violations in Gaza and throughout the occupied Palestinian territory , with UN experts criticizing verbal attacks on the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) . <p> Currently , the ICJ is hearing two major cases related to the Gaza conflict : one from South Africa accusing Israel of genocide through direct killing and withholding essential resources , and another from Nicaragua challenging Germany over its arms supplies to Israel . <p> Population uprooted <p> Albanese said Gaza 's entire population of Gaza has been uprooted , often multiple times , hundreds of thousands have lost their homes forever , and children are unsure whether they will be able to return to school . <p> She said , " In the past four months alone , nearly 19,000 children have been hospitalized for acute malnutrition . Famine today is a reality . <p> " As we see humanitarian aid being blocked in the West Bank , including East Jerusalem , militarized Israeli security operations , settlement expansion , evictions , demolitions , violence , and threats of annexation are inflicting further pain and injustice on the Palestinians , who are subject to an unlawful and intensified shoot to kill policy . " <p> The ICJ on Nov. 21 announced that it had issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant for war crimes committed in Palestinian territories , including Gaza . <p> Margaret Satterthwaite , for her part , said since the arrest warrants were issued , " dozens of states " have affirmed their support for the court and their intention to comply with their legal obligations to cooperate with the ICJ . <p> " However , I am gravely concerned that a number of states have reacted in exactly the opposite manner , verbally attacking the court , its judges , and the prosecutor , at times in language that is entirely inappropriate , " said Satterthwaite , noting that officials from one country , believed to be Israel , labeled the court as having an antisemitic bias . <p> " An elected official from another state characterized the court as a ' dangerous joke , ' another called the ICC a ' kangaroo court , ' and disparaged the prosecutor in terms I will not repeat . " 
@@118784417 <h> Donald Trump 's Vision for World Peace <p> For the Muslim world , grappling with external threats and formidable internal challenges , the outcome of American elections often makes little difference . Unlike the deeply divided Islamic world , American politics remains singularly focused on national interests . Educated and conscious American voters demand substantive debates , accountability , and results from their leaders . America 's interests and global supremacy take precedence , with major decisions thoroughly scrutinised in Congress . This consistency and collective resolve underpin the United States ' enduring global influence . <p> A remarkable aspect of American politics is its respect for political adversaries . Unlike countries like Pakistan , where retribution dominates transitions , the United States demonstrates dignity and mutual respect . Defeated candidates step aside gracefully , and incoming presidents honour their predecessors . Former presidents , like Jimmy Carter , George W. Bush , and Barack Obama , live peaceful , productive post-presidency lives , free from corruption allegations . This respect for democracy offers a model worth emulating in the developing world . <p> In a historic victory , Trump has reclaimed the White House , vowing to prioritise peace , prevent new wars , and build a " New America . " His " America First " agenda resonates with voters tired of seeing their taxes fund foreign conflicts . Wars in Ukraine and Palestine , fuelled by American dollars , have caused death and destruction . Redirecting these resources to domestic welfare could bring long-overdue relief . <p> It is time for America to pursue peace and prosperity , domestically and globally . Fires raging across Gaza , Kashmir , Yemen , Sudan , and beyond demand America 's resources be channelled towards peace . Let us hope Trump honours his pledge , steering the world towards a new era of peace . 
@@118784559 <p> The Senate today passed a unanimous resolution condemning the Israeli bombing in Gaza and other countries . <p> The resolution , moved by Sherry Rehman , expressed profound concern over the systemic exercise of impunity by Israel in its actions against Palestine , <p> The House noted with alarm the exploitation of the political vacuum caused by regime collapse in Syria , which Israel is using to advance its unilateral agenda . This agenda now extends beyond Palestine to violations of the sovereignty of Syria and many other countries . <p> The Senate also strongly condemned the killing of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency team members . <p> It further condemned Israel 's recent legislative measures aimed at undermining a mandate of United Nations Relief and Works Agency , which provides essential aid in the West Bank , Gaza , Jordan and Syria . <p> This move will severely impact access to health , education and vital services for Palestinian Refugees and threatens the right of return for Palestinian Refugees as enshrined in International Law . <p> It also noted that since the start of the current onslaught 44,612 Palestinians have been martyred and 105,834 injured including women and children . <p> The Senate condemned the targeted killing of over hundred and eighty journalists during Israeli bombings in Gaza and the deliberate destruction of critical infrastructure , including hospitals , schools and residential areas . <p> The Upper House reaffirmed Pakistan 's unwavering support for the Palestinian cause , recognizing its moral , political and legal obligations . Pakistan reiterates its consistent support for the two state solution of the Palestine issue as enshrined in the relevant Security Council and General Assembly resolutions . <p> The House reaffirmed its solidarity with the people of Palestine and called for the establishment of a viable , independent and contiguous state of Palestine based on internationally agreed parameters of the pre-1967 borders with Quds al-Sharif as its capital . <p> The Senate called on the international community to take decisive action to protect Palestinian lives , hold Israel accountable for war crimes and ensure compliance with international humanitarian law . It said an end to the culture of impunity is essential for achieving peace , justice and the protection of human rights in Palestine , the occupied territories and the Middle East . <p> Meanwhile , Lawmakers have emphasized the need for reconciliation and dialogue among the political parties for the sake of the country . <p> Speaking in the Senate , Jam Muhammad said all the political forces need to forge a national reconciliation and find a middle way to take the country forward . <p> Irfan Siddiqui called for ending the politics of confrontation and to sit together to sort out problems peacefully . He said the government is ready for dialogue as it does not shy from talks . <p> Ali Zafar said the door for dialogue should be kept open and the government needs to take appropriate confidence building measures to have a meaningful dialogue . <p> Sherry Rehman said negotiations are the only way forward but there should be no strings attached with that process . 
@@118784563 <p> Pakistan welcomes the United Nations General Assembly ( UNGA ) resolution , adopted yesterday , demanding an immediate and unconditional ceasefire in Gaza . <p> At weekly media briefing in Islamabad today , Foreign Office Spokesperson Mumtaz Zahra Baloch said Pakistan also welcomes the resolution , demanding removal of restrictions against UNRWA and its aid operations in Gaza Strip and the West Bank . <p> The Spokesperson said we call for an immediate cessation of hostilities in Palestine , end to genocide in Gaza , protection of civilians and civilian infrastructure , unrestricted humanitarian access to those who are in need , full support to UNRWA and its mandated humanitarian activities , and healthcare to those who are in urgent need . <p> The Spokesperson added we also urge the international community to hold Israel accountable for its war crimes and crimes against humanity in occupied territories . <p> Turning to prevailing situation in Syria , Mumtaz Zahra Baloch said Pakistan is following the developments in Syria and is concerned about escalation of violence . <p> She said the government of Pakistan has always supported the efforts , aimed at finding the comprehensive solution to the crisis in Syria . We express our full support for the sovereignty , unity and territorial integrity of Syria . <p> The Spokesperson said we believe that any solution to the situation in Syria should correspond to the aspiration of Syrian people for their security , stability and development . <p> Mumtaz Zahra Baloch said Pakistan believes that it is the right of the people of Syria to determine their future and make decisions about their destiny . <p> She said we also support efforts to establish inclusive political process based on resolution 2254 , which was unanimously approved by the UN Security Council . <p> The Spokesperson said we believe that no foreign interference or external imposition should determine Syria 's future . <p> Regarding the evacuation of Pakistani nationals including Zaireen from Syria , the Spokesperson said the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Pakistan 's missions in Syria and Lebanon remained actively engaged in facilitating the process . <p> She said around four hundred seventy five Pakistanis including two hundred fifty Zaireen have crossed the Syrian border into Lebanon . She said from Beirut , they will be brought back to Islamabad soon . <p> The Spokesperson said we also appreciate the support extended by the Government of Lebanon in facilitating the safe return of the stranded Pakistanis from Syria . <p> About Indian Illegally Occupied Jammu and Kashmir , Mumtaz Zahra Baloch said we urge India to end the suppression of the rights and freedoms of the Kashmiri people , who shall be able to exercise their right to self-determination as enshrined in the relevant UN Security Council resolutions . <p> She reaffirmed Pakistan 's continued political , diplomatic and moral support to Kashmiri people . 
@@118828865 <p> In a bid to show solidarity with the people of Palestine , Jamaat-e-Islami ( JI ) Pakistan 's Amir Hafiz Naeemur Rehman has announced plans for a ' million march ' in Islamabad on December 29 , Express News reported on Friday . <p> Addressing a gathering at the Jamaat-e-Islami headquarters in Lahore , Rehman condemned the ongoing genocide of Muslims in Gaza , accusing global powers of offering full protection to Israeli forces . " The mass killing of Muslims continues while international powers back Israeli forces , " he said . <p> While emphasising the importance of upholding the constitution and rule of law in the country , he stated that without these principles , the nation could not progress . <p> " The government and institutions must function within the constitutional framework , " he said , stressing the need to foster a peaceful political culture . He added , " It is essential to reduce the growing rift between the military and the public . Solutions to national issues can not be found by curbing democratic freedoms . " <p> The JI leader also criticised the long-standing issue of Independent Power Producers ( IPPs ) in Pakistan , saying that despite efforts by the party , including an impactful public movement , the benefits of halting IPPs have not been passed on to the people . <p> " The reduction in IPP operations has not benefited the common man . The government must provide relief to the public by lowering the prices of electricity , petrol , and essential food items , " Rehman urged . 
@@118828898 <h> Journalists under fire <p> At least 54 journalists were killed worldwide in 2024 . According to a report by Reporters Without Borders ( RSF ) , Israeli armed forces were responsible for the deaths of 18 journalists this year - 16 in Gaza and two in Lebanon . The number of journalists killed is at a five-year high . While Gaza was the most dangerous place in the world for journalists , other regions also exhibited troubling trends for those reporting the news . According to the RSF report , at least seven were also killed in Pakistan . The country once again emerged as one of the most dangerous spots for journalists . Varied reasons were cited , including political instability , militant violence and suppression of dissenting voices . Journalists in Pakistan face threats not only from extremist groups but also from state actors who often view independent reporting as a threat to their authority . In Pakistan , media outlets have come under increasing pressure in recent years from the government and state authorities , leading to self-censorship and in extreme cases , violence against journalists . <p> During the last months of the year , we have witnessed journalists arrested for various trumped-up charges . Media persons reporting on sensitive issues in the country are silenced through intimidation , abduction and in some cases and murder . For many reporters in the country , the risk of retaliation by powerful quarters is constant . Due to the prevailing environment of fear and the restricted space available , the media has become less effective in holding the powerful to account . It is the need of the hour for international organisations and the government to take concrete steps to protect journalists in Pakistan . The government must introduce a strong legal framework to protect media workers , ensure accountability for crimes against journalists and help foster an environment where the media is free to report the news without fear of violence or retaliation . 
@@118828902 <h> Syria : from tyranny to more tyranny <p> The writer is a senior journalist and analyst . He can be reached at iamehkri@gmail.com <p> The fall of Syria was destined to happen as per the scriptures of divinity . Revered volumes of Shia theology such as Kitab Al-Ghaybah and Bihar-Ul-Anwar quote the sixth revered holy Imam of Shi'ism , Imam Jaffer al-Sadiq , as saying that the return of Umayyads to Damascus will be a prelude to Armageddon . That apparently has been realised with the abrupt end of the Alawite dynasty that reigned supreme for five decades in self-service , and more as a prodigy of Iran . However , President Bashar al-Assad 's exit was never expected to happen in such an unceremonious , rather disgusting , manner . <p> Assad has reportedly fled to Russia , the regime 's once geo-strategic patron , and is set to extinguish in oblivion in weeks and months . But Syrians are fraught with serious consequences as more bloodshed and revulsion is set to unfold in the region . The intruders in the restive Arab state , who were once-labeled as terrorists , are now being eulogised as saviours and history is being read in introspection with glory for some and death-knell for others . <p> As far as Syria is concerned , one tyranny has given way to another . The lightning advance of Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) group , in aid of other fugitive outfits including ISIS , al-Qaeda and Daesh , is a d ? j ? vu for many on the pattern of Taliban 2.0 triumph over Kabul in August 2021 . The Americans and the West never expected it to be so quick , but it seems forces of inertia with the covert support of some major Arab players had swung a surprise . But it remains to be seen whether these gun-trotting factions will abide by their benefactor 's agenda or go berserk as had been the case in Iraq after the fall of Saddam Hussein . <p> Riyadh , Doha , Abu Dhabi , Ankara and Amman will have to watch out these dark horses , and keep fingers crossed . The militias now swirling across the Levant can sooner than later become a pain in the neck . Will it tip the pendulum towards Arab Spring-2.0 is anybody 's guess . <p> The major loser is , of course , Iran . Tehran stands battered in the last few weeks , and is almost decimated in terms of power politics . It has lost its clout in Lebanon , Hezbollah is bleeding , Hamas is obliterated , and Houthis are desolated . The Shia brigades in Syria are running helter-skelter and those inside are in a fix . Supply lines for all these non-state actors from Iran are almost choked , and they face an existential threat . <p> Israel for all practical purposes is on a rampage , and no eyebrows were raised in a jaundiced media as Tel Aviv rolled in its tanks deep inside Syria , hours after Assad decamped his fiefdom . Golan Heights , under Israeli occupation since 1967 , will stay put with the Zionist state as there is no resistance now from anywhere . With recent encroachments of the Jewish state becoming a fait accompli in Lebanon and uninterrupted barbarism in Gaza becoming a new-normal , Israel has become invincible and is close to the Torah 's belief of erecting a Greater Israel in the Middle East . <p> All tall claims of Ayatollahs of Iran to raise a resistance force in the name of Al-Quds , and annihilate the state of Israel , have fallen flat . A few hundred pseudo-sorties flown over the Iron Dome by Tehran , in retaliation to the deadly attacks inside the Islamic Republic , were counter-productive . It made a laughing stock of Iranian might and exposed its political hollowness . The orthodox dispensation needs to do some soul-searching and put an end to cursing from the pulpit . Enough of playing to the gallery since 1979 . <p> Syria today is a no-man 's land open for meddling by great powers . Moscow 's timely setback will soon be plastered if Donald Trump and Vladimir Putin agree on a thaw in one of the most volatile regions of the world . They have reasons for a quid pro quo on Ukraine and Israel . But the indispensable lesson learnt from Syria , and the likes , is that tyranny and iron-fist rules are time-barred , and the blood and sweat of commoners is less than a worth of fodder . 
@@118829009 <h> Palestinian president calls for full Israeli withdrawal from Gaza , enabling his authority to govern territory <p> Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas on Friday called for a complete Israeli withdrawal from the Gaza Strip and for the Palestinian Authority ( PA ) to assume control of the territory . <p> Abbas made the remarks during a meeting with Italian President Sergio Mattarella in Rome , according to the Palestinian news agency Wafa . <p> During the meeting , Abbas briefed Mattarella on the latest developments in the Palestinian-Israeli conflict , emphasizing the ongoing humanitarian crisis caused by Israel 's brutal war in Gaza . <p> He also highlighted the escalating Israeli military actions in the West Bank , including East Jerusalem , citing illegal settler violence , killings , and raids on Palestinian cities , towns , villages , and refugee camps , as well as continued settlement expansion . <p> Abbas stressed the need to implement UN Security Council Resolution 2735 , which calls for an immediate cease-fire , the withdrawal of Israeli forces from Gaza , and the expedited delivery of humanitarian aid to prevent a looming catastrophe . He reiterated the importance of the PA assuming its responsibilities in Gaza . <p> Additionally , Abbas called for international support for Palestine 's bid for full UN membership and more global recognition of Palestinian statehood . <p> The Palestinian president also urged Italy to formally recognize the State of Palestine . <p> Abbas arrived in Rome on Wednesday and met with Pope Francis on Thursday as part of his visit to Italy , the duration of which remains unspecified . <p> Israel has launched a genocidal war on the Gaza Strip that has killed nearly 44,900 victims , mostly women and children , since an attack by the Palestinian resistance group , Hamas , on Oct. 7 , 2023 . <p> The International Criminal Court issued arrest warrants last month for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his former defense chief Yoav Gallant for war crimes and crimes against humanity in Gaza . <p> Israel also faces a genocide case at the International Court of Justice for its war on Gaza . 
@@118829011 <h> Govt , PTI ready to hold talks with ' ifs and buts ' <h> Senate unanimously condemns Israeli bombings in Gaza <p> Syed Ali Zafar calls for confidence building measures to create environment for talks . Irfan Siddiqui says we want dialogue with open heart but PTI should not hang a sword . Talks are held without any conditionalities , says Sherry . Wali demands ruling coalition to tell the house about reasons behind extending tenure of army chief . <p> ISLAMABAD - The Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz ( PML-N ) led federal government and the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf ( PTI ) on Thursday in the Senate agreed to hold a dialogue to end ongoing political crisis in the country with former censuring the opposition party for its ' agitational politics ' and the latter asking for confidence-building measures ( CBMs ) to create some conducive environment for talks . <p> Taking part in the debate on the recent protest of ex-premier Imran Khan 's followers at Islamabad 's D-Chowk , the parliamentary leader of PTI in the House Syed Ali Zafar said he was in favour of a dialogue with the ruling parties to end ongoing political instability . " The doors for talk should never be shut down , " he said , urging the need for some CBMs from the Shehbaz Sharif administration . I am not seeing any CBMs from the government as my party workers are still being arrested , he said . He added that trust in each other was critically important to negotiate . <p> He called for an independent truth and reconciliation commission to probe what happened at the D-Chowk on November 26 , and asked the government to apologise , if an investigation endorses their stance that peaceful protesters had been indiscriminately fired upon . <p> Senator Zafar underlined that the government should release all political prisoners and ensure rule of law if it wanted from PTI not to hold a protest in future for political stability -- a prerequisite for economic stability . PML-N parliamentary leader Irfan Siddiqui in his remarks said the government has never shut its doors for talks , asking the PTI to give up politics of agitation if it wanted a dialogue . <p> " We want a dialogue with an open heart , " he said , adding that the opposition party should not hang the sword of " civil disobedience movement " over their heads . " Pakistan should move forward but old methods of politics need to be given up , " he said . He said that PTI should not hang a sword that if talks were not held by such a date they would start a disobedience movement , adding this kind of behaviour could not go together . Senator Siddiqui recalled that no country in the world gives its people an unconditional right to " peaceful protest . " He , referring to PTI , said no protest in the world started with slogans of " jihad " or " do or die . " . He said no country in the world would allow protesters to bring with them sticks , tear gas shells and slingshots . <p> PPP parliamentary leader Senator Sherry Rehman in her speech said her party has always talked about dialogue , but the PTI always remained averse to it . <p> She said the PPP had offered talks at the time of elections as well , but the opposition party rejected it . <p> She underscored that talks were held without any conditionalities , indicating that the PTI has set two conditions for the talks . She said there should be freedom of expression and protest but with some responsibility , which the PTI lacked . <p> Senator Rehman accused PTI of staging a violent protest and asked it to apologize for it . She blamed the party for what happened in Islamabad on November 26 , saying it provoked the people by bringing them to the D-Chowk . <p> Contrary to the government claims that law enforcement agencies did n't use live ammunition at the PTI protestors at D-Chowk , ruling PML-N Senator Afnan Ullah Khan said he was in a shock that bullets were fired at PTI protesters . He chided the PTI leadership for leaving alone " unarmed and poor workers " at the protest venue and fleeing from the scene . He questioned why no MP , senator or provincial minister of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa government faced any injury . <p> The parliamentary leader of ANP Aimal Wali Khan taking part in the debate questioned the law , passed by the parliament along with the 26th Amendment , which extended the tenure of Chief of Army Staff ( COAS ) General Asim Munir from three to five years . <p> " The house in its last session extended the tenure of an important position but the entire system lacked courage to talk on this legislation , " he said while referring to the amendments made , by the parliament , in the Pakistan Army Act 1952 last month . He said all three major political parties including PPP , PML-N and PTI harmed democracy by supporting the law . <p> Senator Aimal also questioned the conspicuous absence of Leader of the Opposition Shibli Faraz in the house on the day when the bill was passed . " The opposition leader is also compromised in this system , " he said , blaming PTI Senator Faraz that he never used to make it to the house on the occasions of important law-making . Having a look at the past , he said that even after the passage of the present 1973 Constitution , former army chiefs including General Ziaul Haq , General Pervez Musharraf , General Ashfaq Pervez Kayani and General Qamar Javed Bajwa served beyond their three-year term . Now the Army Act has been amended in a way that present COAS General Asim Munir can serve for 10 years and even beyond that , he added . Wali demanded the ruling coalition to inform the house about the reasons behind extending the tenure of the army chief . <p> Separately , the house unanimously adopted a resolution condemning the grave violations of international law by Israel . " The Senate notes with alarm the exploitation of the political vacuum caused by regime collapse in Syria , which Israel is using to advance its unilateral agenda . This agenda now extends beyond Palestine to violations of the sovereignty of Syria and many other countries , " reads the resolution moved by Senator Sherry Rehman . The resolution , signed by members from both sides of the aisle , called for immediate accountability for these actions . 
@@118829027 <h> Pakistan , EU strengthen cooperation on food security <p> Pakistan and the European Union ( EU ) have reaffirmed their commitment to addressing emerging global challenges such as food and energy security , climate change , and human rights , underscoring the importance of continued bilateral cooperation in various sectors . <p> The discussions took place during the 14th Pakistan-EU Joint Commission meeting , which reviewed recent political developments and the ongoing formation of the new College of Commissioners . The meeting was preceded by sessions on democracy , governance , human rights , and trade . <p> In the Sub-Group on Democracy , Governance , Rule of Law , and Human Rights , both sides emphasized the need to strengthen the electoral process and ensure political pluralism , judicial independence , and a vibrant civil society . The EU highlighted the importance of protecting all human rights , including the rights of women , children , workers , and migrants , as well as tackling issues such as disinformation . <p> Pakistan presented its reform agenda , including initiatives under the National Action Plan on Human Rights and its commitment to the full implementation of international conventions linked to the Generalized Scheme of Preferences ( GSP+ ) . The EU also expressed concern about anti-Muslim hatred and underscored the importance of protecting the rights of minorities and vulnerable groups . <p> On trade , both sides acknowledged the positive impact of the EU 's GSP+ status granted to Pakistan in 2014 and discussed the future of multilateral trade relations , particularly in the context of the WTO and other bilateral agreements . <p> In the Sub-Group on Development , Pakistan and the EU reviewed key priority areas under the Multi-annual Indicative Programme ( MIP ) , such as Green Inclusive Growth and Human Capital/TVET . The EU presented details of its planned projects for 2025-2027 and emphasized the Global Gateway strategy for enhancing investment and engagement in green and clean energy projects . <p> The EU also expressed continued support for Pakistan 's efforts to develop green energy solutions and highlighted the role of the European Investment Bank in fostering cooperation . <p> In addition to economic and development discussions , the Joint Commission covered migration and mobility issues , including the implementation of the Pakistan-EU Joint Readmission Agreement and the Pakistan-EU Talent Partnership on legal migration . The EU acknowledged Pakistan 's generosity in hosting Afghan refugees and reiterated its support for the Solution Strategy for Afghan Refugees ( SSAR ) . <p> On the international front , both sides called for a peaceful resolution to the ongoing conflict in Gaza , with Pakistan urging an immediate ceasefire and full Israeli withdrawal from occupied Arab territories . <p> The meeting concluded with an agreement to hold the next session of the Pakistan-EU Joint Commission in Brussels in 2025 , with both sides emphasizing the need to expand cooperation across multiple sectors , including agriculture , taxation , and disaster risk reduction . 
@@118829035 <p> The latest bloodshed came just hours after the UN General Assembly called for an immediate ceasefire in the devastated territory . Seven guards were killed in a strike in Rafah , while another attack left five guards dead in Khan Yunis , agency spokesman Mahmud Bassal said . " The occupation once again targeted those securing the aid trucks , " Bassal told AFP , adding that around 30 people , most of them children , were also wounded in the strikes . <p> " The trucks carrying flour were on their way to UNRWA warehouses , " Bassal noted , referring to the United Nations agency for Palestinian refugees . <p> " The occupation aims to destroy all services for citizens across the Gaza Strip . " <p> Witnesses later told AFP that residents looted flour from the trucks after the strikes . <p> The Israeli military said its forces " conducted precise strikes " overnight on armed Hamas militants present in the humanitarian corridor in southern Gaza . <p> " All of the terrorists that were eliminated were members of Hamas and planned to violently hijack humanitarian aid trucks and transfer them to Hamas in support of continuing terrorist activity , preventing them from reaching Gazan civilians , as was done in previous cases , " the military alleged in a statement . The United Nations and other aid agencies have repeatedly warned about the acute humanitarian crisis in the Gaza Strip , exacerbated by the war that has persisted for more than 14 months . <p> ' Apocalyptic ' <p> " Conditions for people across the Gaza Strip are appalling and apocalyptic , " UNRWA spokeswoman Louise Wateridge told journalists during a visit to Nuseirat in central Gaza . <p> She added that life-saving aid to " besieged areas in north Gaza governorate has been largely blocked " since the Israeli military launched a sweeping assault several weeks ago . <p> Israeli air strikes on two homes near Nuseirat refugee camp and Gaza City killed 21 more people , including children , the civil defence agency said . Fifteen people , at least six of them children , died " as a result of an Israeli bombing " of a building sheltering displaced people near Nuseirat , Basal said . The bodies of six others killed in a strike on an apartment in Gaza City were taken to a hospital morgue , he added . <p> Israel 's offensive in Gaza has killed tens of thousands of people and devastated the coastal territory since a Hamas attack on southern Israel ignited the war . <p> In the latest diplomatic effort to end the violence , the UN General Assembly adopted a resolution on Wednesday calling for an immediate and unconditional ceasefire . <p> The non-binding resolution was rejected by the United States , Israel 's main military backer . However , in recent days , there have been indications that previously stalled ceasefire negotiations could be revived . <p> Families of the 96 hostages still in Gaza , including 34 the Israeli military says are dead , are pressing for their release . 
@@118829251 <p> Minister for Information and Broadcasting Attaullah Tarar has proposed a regulatory framework at the international level to counter misinformation and to uphold ethical standards for the common good of humanity . <p> Speaking at the STARTCOM summit in Istanbul on Friday , he stressed the need to use the Artificial Intelligence in a positive manner in the health , education , social , agriculture and financial sectors to benefit people . <p> The Minister said the whole world is now grappling with the challenge of misinformation as it eventually leads to instability , which can cause destruction beyond imagination . <p> He highlighted that AI is being used negatively on the social media in the name of freedom of expression when it comes to the issues of Gaza , Kashmir , Lebanon and the plight of their people . He said one can not mention the name of Kashmiri freedom fighter Burhan Wani or upload his picture on the social media . <p> Attaullah Tarar resolved that Pakistan is fully committed to implementing AI policy with the best ethical standards in the world . He said the government has launched the Pakistan Digital Dialogue comprising AI and Large Language Model . It helps harmonizing public opinion and assessing the needs of the citizens . <p> The Minister said we are also heavily investing in the skill development of our youth . He said one million youth will be imparted training in the IT sector next year . 
@@118829252 <p> Pakistan and the European Union have agreed to continue cooperation on number of issues including emerging challenges of food , energy security , and climate change . <p> According to a joint declaration issued today regarding the 14th Pakistan-European Union Joint Commission held in Islamabad , the two sides underlined sustained engagement , particularly in areas such as trade , migration , human rights , political , economic and development cooperation with a focus on the Global Gateway strategy . <p> The European Union reiterated the importance of political pluralism , democratic values , independent media , vibrant civil society , judicial independence , and international human rights standards , which are key for democratic elections . <p> Both sides reaffirmed their commitment to the protection of all human rights , including women and children 's rights , labour and migrant rights , as well as fundamental freedoms , such as freedom of expression and opinion including growing problem of disinformation . <p> Pakistan and the EU also exchanged views on freedom of religion or belief and the rights of persons belonging to minorities and vulnerable groups and concerns about anti-Muslim hatred . <p> The European Union expressed its continued support to Pakistan in developing green and clean energy . <p> Reiterating their commitment to the Pakistan-EU Strategic Engagement Plan , signed in 2019 , Pakistan and the European Union reviewed the state of its implementation . <p> The European Union reiterated its appreciation for Pakistan 's generosity in hosting Afghan refugees over the decades and welcomed the decision to extend the validity of Proof of Registrations cards of Afghan nationals residing in Pakistan until June 30 , 2025 . <p> Pakistan also called for an immediate and unconditional ceasefire in Gaza and complete withdrawal of Israeli troops from the occupied Arab territories . <p> The European Union reiterated its call for an urgent ceasefire in Gaza ; the unconditional release of all hostages ; and the urgent and unimpeded humanitarian access and distribution at scale of humanitarian assistance ; as well as an enduring end to hostilities in line with UN Security Council Resolution 2735 . <p> Both Pakistan and the European Union stressed the need to find peaceful solutions to all conflicts , in full respect of the principles of international law and the UN Charter . <p> It was agreed to hold the next session of the EU-Pakistan Joint Commission in Brussels next year . 
@@118847768 <h> Israel strikes a post office that serves as a shelter in Gaza , killing at least 66 Palestinians . <p> An Israeli strike killed at least 30 Palestinians and wounded 50 others who were sheltering in a post office in the central Gaza Strip , bringing the death toll in the enclave to 66 . <p> The 14-month-old conflict shows no signs of abating . According to doctors who spoke to Reuters , the missile damaged multiple surrounding homes and struck a postal facility in Nuseirat camp where displaced families had sought shelter . <p> A request for response was not immediately answered by the Israeli military . <p> Israel 's embassy in Paraguay is relocated from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem.After a back-and-forth battle over the diplomatic location that began in 2018 , Paraguay officially opened its new Jerusalem embassy in Israel in a ceremony that was attended by Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and President Santiago Pea , according to Reuters . <p> In 2018 , former President Horacio Cartes ordered the South American country 's embassy to relocate to Jerusalem from Tel Aviv , a city on the Israeli coast , where it had been for decades . Following a sudden reversal made by Cartes ' successor , Mario Abdo , the facility was relocated back to Tel Aviv a few months later . <p> During the opening ceremony of the new embassy , Pea stated , " This step symbolizes our commitment to shared values and the strengthening of the ties that build a future of peace , development , and mutual understanding . " <p> The conflict in Gaza and other recent Israeli military actions in Syria and Lebanon were not mentioned by the president . <h> PKKH ( Pakistan Ka Khuda Hafiz ) is a respected Pakistani news website offering accurate and comprehensive coverage of politics , culture , and global affairs . With a commitment to objective reporting and insightful analysis , PKKH provides readers with a well-rounded perspective on current events . The platform encourages community engagement and leverages digital technology to reach a wide audience , contributing to informed discussions and awareness . 
@@118868243 <p> GIVEN his past record , it was surprising to see endorsements for candidate Trump by Muslim Americans , including influential imams , in the swing state of Michigan and the Pakistani-American Public Affairs Committee ( PAKPAC ) . <p> The disillusionment of Muslim Americans with Joe Biden 's presidency and , by extension , with Democratic candidate Vice President Kamala Harris , given America 's staunch support for Israel despite the latter 's genocide against the Palestinian people , was clear . <p> PAKPAC also seemed to be equally angry at the current US administration over the Donald Lu cipher saga . However , rather than choosing not to vote or vote for the third-party candidate -- the Green Party 's Jill Stein , who was the only presidential candidate to vigorously oppose US support for Israel -- it was shocking to see many endorse Donald Trump . <p> They justified this because of the supposed promises made by candidate Trump to address the Muslim American community 's concerns , especially around the Israel-Palestine conflict . However , a review of his first term and seeing his selections for key staffing positions for his new administration should make it clear that he is not going to live up to his end of the bargain . <p> Under the Jerusalem Embassy Act , the US was supposed to move its embassy to Jerusalem . However , recognising how sensitive such a move would be , the Clinton , Bush and Obama administrations all deferred this controversial move . In contrast , Trump , soon after taking office in his first term , not only shifted the US embassy to Jerusalem but also closed down the US consulate that provided services to Palestinians . <p> Later , president Trump , alongside Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , unveiled his Middle East peace plan that proposed recognition of Israeli sovereignty over West Bank settlements and stated that Jerusalem would " remain as Israel 's undivided capital " . It recognised Palestinian statehood only over 15 per cent of what the Palestine Liberation Organisation refers to as " historic Palestine " . Understandably , the proposal was rejected by Palestinians . <p> His nominations for key staffing positions for his second term make it evident that president-elect Trump is going to be even more belligerently one-sided in support of Israel than previous administrations . Mike Huckabee , his choice of US ambassador to Israel , is a self-declared Zionist who has stated that there is " really no such thing as a Palestinian " . According to Huckabee , this is just a " political tool to try and force land away from Israel " . <p> It is clear that Trump is not going to live up to his end of the bargain with Muslim American voters . <p> Trump 's nominee for US ambassador to the UN , Elise Stefanik , has similar views . She gained notoriety for her confrontation with the presidents of Ivy League universities during a US House of Representatives hearing . <p> She accused them of being antisemitic because they refused to crack down on students participating in widespread pro-Palestinian protests on campuses . She recently also called for " cutting off funding to UNRWA " ( the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine ) , the main provider of humanitarian assistance to Palestinians in Gaza . <p> Senator Marco Rubio and Representative Mike Waltz , nominated for the positions of secretary of state and national security adviser , respectively , are long established supporters of Israel and have heavily criticised President Biden 's handling of the Israel-Gaza conflict as being too obstructive towards Israel . The latter even echoed candidate Trump 's call to " let Israel finish the job " . <p> Domestically , the main architect behind the infamous ' Muslim ban ' executive order , Stephen Miller , returns to president-elect Trump 's team as his deputy chief of policy with the mandate of focusing on immigration policy for the new administration . <p> Given Trump 's past and current actions , Pakistanis at home and in the US should be wary . Unlike previous American presidents who purported to crusade for democracy and human rights globally ( albeit who were frustratingly inconsistent when these values conflicted with perceived US strategic interests ) , these values do not even appear to be a consideration in Trump 's foreign policy . One need only see how he chose to loosen the rules of engagement for air strikes in Afghanistan during his first term , which led to a 330pc increase in civilian casualties . <p> Moreover , he is responsible for negotiating the disastrous deal with the Taliban that brought them back to power in Afghanistan and has contributed to a resurgence of militancy in Pakistan . He also withheld $1.3 billion of military aid to Pakistan in his first term , tweeting in 2018 : " The United States has foolishly given Pakistan more than $33 billion dollars in aid over the last 15 years , and they have given us nothing but lies &amp; deceit ... " . <p> The relationship only normalised with Pakistan in Trump 's final year in office because of the necessity of Pakistan 's support in withdrawing US troops from Afghanistan . <p> Involvement in Pakistan 's internal matters is contrary to Trump 's isolationist tendencies and his espoused ' America first ' foreign policy . As Pakistan 's strategic importance to the US has waned with the conclusion of the so-called war on terror , Pakistani-Americans need to rethink their approach . <p> Constituting only a little over 1pc of the US population , Muslim Americans , including Pakistani-Americans , are not a large enough voting bloc to impact US policy through their votes alone . If they want to have a chance to truly influence US policy , it is , ironically , the outsized power of the Zionist lobby that can be instructive . <p> While the Jewish population of the US is scarcely more than that of Muslims , the American Israel Public Affairs Committee is by far one of the most influental lobbying groups in the country . It is well-funded and very strategic in how it backs or opposes candidates in both general and party primary elections as well as its aggressive lobbying around any policies affecting Israel . <p> PAKPAC and other Muslim groups should actively work towards fundraising and developing a more effective lobby in Washington , increasing community outreach at the grassroots level , raising public awareness through traditional and nontraditional media , and building coalitions with other politically active groups to mitigate the damage that the next four years are likely to bring . <p> The writer is a development practitioner and a former parliamentarian . 
@@118868326 <h> Mayor among 17 killed in Israeli airstrikes on Gaza <p> A Palestinian child on the rubble left by an Israeli strike on Nuseirat refugee camp , on December 13 , 2024 . Reuters <p> Israeli airstrikes in Gaza on Saturday killed 17 people , including Deiab al-Jaro , the mayor of Deir el-Balah , and seven others at a UN-run school sheltering displaced civilians . <p> Gaza 's civil defence agency spokesperson Mahmud Bassal confirmed that the strike on the Al-Majida Wasila school , west of Gaza City , killed seven people , including women and children , and wounded at least 10 others . <p> The school , operated by the UN agency for Palestinian refugees , had been turned into a makeshift shelter for those displaced by the ongoing war . <p> Bassal also reported that an Israeli strike on the town hall in Deir el-Balah killed Mayor Jaro and nine others . <p> The Israeli military stated that Jaro was targeted as an alleged Hamas operative in the military wing , though this claim was not independently verified . <p> The conflict , which erupted after Hamas 's attack on October 7 , 2023 , has caused significant casualties , with at least 44,930 killed in Gaza , the majority being civilians , according to the Hamas-run health ministry . <p> Israel 's ongoing strikes in Gaza have continued to target civilians , with at least 52 people killed over the past day . <p> Strikes hit two schools in Gaza City , and in northern Gaza , a tighter siege has led to the destruction of buildings and homes , particularly in Beit Lahiya , with Israeli forces also firing on Kamal Adwan Hospital . 
@@118868395 <p> This write-up seeks to examine the effects and impacts of emerging developments in International Criminal Law . The Prosecutor of International Criminal Court ( ICC ) recently filed Criminal charges against Benjamin Netanyahu , the sitting Prime Minister of Israel , for the commission of war crimes , including the use of starvation as a method of warfare , targeting of civilians and restricting the human aid to Gaza . The ICC , while taking cognizance of the matter and after examining the material evidence presented before it , issued warrants of arrest of the Israeli Prime Minister . <p> The court ruled , " in the light of ratification of Rome Statute by Palestine State , the court is competent to proceed in the matter ' ' . <p> Although , it is early to say about the outcome of these proceedings , yet let us understand and examine the nature of allegations against the accused and possible outcomes . The allegations levelled against the accused are the following . <p> - War crimes in Gaza : <p> It has been alleged : Netanyahu and his associates used starvation as a method of warfare by placing deliberate restrictions on the supply of food , water , fuel , electricity , and medicines . <p> Crimes against humanity : The civilian population , particularly children and age old people , of Gaza were targeted by denying water , electricity and food particularly when it was evident that they were non-combatants . <p> Inhuman acts : The acts of war by Israel caused deaths and torture through destruction of medical facilities . <p> Persecutions : People in Gaza were targeted on their identity and nationality . <p> Targeting of civilians : Deliberate military actions were taken against the civilian population of Gaza . <p> The actions of ICC are though within the framework of Rome Statute , yet its actions may confront challenges of jurisdiction and absence of action by the Israeli authorities . <p> Jurisdiction : Israel may argue the ICC lacks jurisdiction because Israel is not a party to the Rome Statute and to the dispute of Palestinian statehood . <p> Absence of intervention by the Israeli courts : Israel preempts ICJ involvement by conducting investigations into the alleged crimes . However , its failure to do so conferred jurisdiction on ICC to proceed in the matter . <p> Political and geopolitical implications <p> Enforcement challenges : <p> * The ICC lacks its own enforcement mechanism and depends on member states to execute arrest warrants . Countries with strong ties to Israel , like the United States and Hungary , have already indicated that they will not cooperate with ICC as they do not recognize the institution ; it undermines the ICC 's authority . <p> * Non-cooperation from powerful allies also highlights the ICC 's limitations and its reliance on political will of the world community . <p> International relations : <p> The charges against Netanyahu could strain Israel 's diplomatic ties with ICC member states . <p> * A number of countries support the ICC 's investigations ; these states emphasize on accountability of rogue nations . It may lead to a deepening divide between Israel and other countries . <p> Developing precedent for accountability : <p> * A conviction of a sitting or former head of government like Netanyahu can set a historic precedent for holding rogue leaders accountable for their illegal actions and atrocities . <p> Impact of ICC 's orders : <p> Ending impunity : <p> The ICC action aims to end impunity for those who commit inhuman acts of atrocities . <p> Ringing the bell of justice : <p> The International Law requires the rights of war crime affectees as recognized by the principles of Nuremberg Trials which were adopted by the UN in 1946 . <p> Global security : <p> The ICC being an arm of the United Nations is contributing towards global security and peace . <p> Past precedents : <p> The ICC 's investigations into the Benjamin Netanyahu affairs is significant though , yet not without precedents . Political leaders have previously been held responsible for their illegal actions by international courts . <p> Examples : <p> Slobodan Milosevic ( Yugoslavia ) : <p> * Charges : Milosevic was indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for war crimes , crimes against humanity , and genocide during the Balkan wars . <p> Result : He was arrested and extradited to The Hague in 2001 , but he died in custody before a verdict was reached . The action of the ICC amid complex geopolitical challenges demonstrated the international community 's commitment and ability to prosecute high-ranking officials who commit atrocities . <p> The Omar al-Bashir case : <p> Charges : The ICC issued arrest warrants against al-Bashir for genocide , war crimes , and crimes against humanity in Darfur . <p> * Result : Despite the warrants , al-Bashir traveled to several countries without being arrested . After being ousted in 2019 , Sudan indicated willingness to cooperate with the ICC , but no transfer has yet occurred . <p> The Charles Taylor case : <p> * Charges : Taylor was tried by a Special Court for Sierra Leone for war crimes committed during the Sierra Leone Civil War . <p> Result : Convicted and sentenced to 50 years in prison in 2012 . Where international courts and states collaborate , the potential for accountability increases . <p> * Limitations : It demonstrates the difficulties in sustaining a trial without state cooperation . <p> Process followed by the ICC <p> Investigation and charges : <p> * To establish whether there exist grounds to believe occurrence of a crime within court 's jurisdiction , the ICC <p> Prosecutor gathers evidence . <p> * The Complaint to the court has to establish " reasonable grounds " against the accused , with reference to charges of war crimes and crimes against humanity . <p> Implementation of the arrest warrants : <p> The ICC relies on cooperation extended by member states for execution of warrants . Member states are under an obligation to comply . <p> * In Netanyahu 's case , Several ICC member states have already shown non-cooperation , weakening the enforcement prospects , but many other states have shown commitment to enforce ICC orders .. <p> ICC trial process : <p> * The accused must be present in The Hague for a trial to proceed . This includes pre-trial confirmation of charges , the main trial , and sentencing if convicted . <p> * Trials are conducted with strict adherence to international legal norms , including the presumption of innocence and the right to defend . <p> Challenges of harmonization : <p> * Where a country itself conducts credible investigations into the allegations , the ICC restraints itself as the ICC acts as a court of last resort . <p> Undertones for Netanyahu <p> Challenges of international politics : <p> * ICC proceedings and court 's legality has been challenged by the US and Hungary . They oppose the ongoing proceedings . These challenges highlight the limitations of international law and in its enforcement . <p> General disagreement : <p> * The ICC faces pressures but the court maintains its impartiality while reviewing the collection of evidence in politically charged cases , particularly where state cooperation is absent . <p> Impact of such prosecutions : <p> * The actions of ICC provide a powerful message regarding accountability . These cases provide an opening for apprehending the defiant leaders particularly those who can be successfully prosecuted . <p> ICC Proceedings and potential legal Defenses for the accused : <p> An accused can employ several legal and procedural defenses to counter the ICC charges . The accused can challenge both the jurisdiction of the court and substance of the allegations . <p> The writer is a PhD in International Law from Concordia College , LL.M from Washington University in St. Louis School of Law : MPA : University of Southern California . LL.B : Punjab University , an associate of Azimuddin Law Associates 
@@118868472 <h> UNICEF urges action as children in Gaza face daily bloodshed <p> The head of the UN Children 's Fund ( UNICEF ) urged action late Friday as children in the Gaza Strip face bloodshed on a daily basis . <p> " The world can not look away when so many children are exposed to daily bloodshed , hunger , disease , and cold , " Catherine Russell said in a statement . " We urgently call on all parties to the conflict , and on those with influence over them , to take decisive action to end the suffering of children , to release all hostages , to ensure children 's rights are upheld , and to adhere to obligations under international humanitarian law . " <p> She noted that 33 people , including at least eight children , were reportedly killed Thursday in another " devastating attack " on the Nuseirat camp in central Gaza . <p> " The latest violence adds to a staggering figure of more than 160 children reportedly killed in Gaza in a little over a month . That is an average of four children every day since the beginning of November , " she said . <p> Russell emphasized that during the last 14 months , more than 14,500 children have reportedly been killed and nearly all of the 1.1 million children in Gaza urgently require protection and mental health assistance . 
@@118868475 <h> Tarar proposes global framework to counter misinformation <p> ISTANBUL - Federal Minister for Information , Broadcasting , National Heritage and Culture Attaullah Tarar on Friday made a passionate call at an international conference to work out a comprehensive and inclusive AI regulatory framework which is " acceptable to all " . " As the world is progressing with the AI advancement , we must come up with a regulatory framework that upholds ethical standards and works for collective good of humanity which has common goals and objectives , " said the minister while addressing the Startcom Summit 2024 . <p> " We must come together on common terms and make a regulatory framework which is acceptable to all , " he said while advocating for encouraging the positive use of the AI , and discouraging the negative ones . <p> " What I would like to achieve from AI ... in the field of agritech , we would like to have more productivity and high yield crops through inducement of technology because we are rice exporting country and we have the agriculture as a backbone of economy , " he said while underlining the need for AI advancement in education , skill development , fintech and healthtech sectors as well . <p> " With regard to education and skill development , we would like to see the AI advancement in distance learning so that those students who do not have access to these good universities could gain higher education , " he said , adding the AI should be used in increasing the children enrolment in school , and eradicating the diseases like hepatitis and polio . <p> He also stressed on the need of using the AI in combating the climate change , bolstering economy and curbing the misinformation and disinformation . <p> " We just need to make right kind of policies and benefit our people , " he said while pointing out the biggest contemporary challenge in the form of misinformation and disinformation . He cited the World Economic Forum where most of the leaders called misinformation a greatest threat as it led to chaos and anarchy . The minister said the international fora could be used to deal with this challenge and an international agreement could be reached or task force could be established to deal with this challenge that eventually leads to economic instability , security crises that caused destruction beyond imagination . <p> He also expressed reservation over the censorship of the issue related to Gaza , Kashmir and Lebanon on social media . " AI is being used negatively there , and there is a selective judgement in this regard , " he added . <p> The minister regretted that he was unable to mention name of martyr Burhan Wani on Social media and use his picture due to what he called " selective judgement " . <p> The people should be told about the humanitarian crises in Gaza , Kashmir and other countries , he added . <p> " In Pakistan , we have 111 million Internet users , about 45 per cent of our population . Then , we have 71 million social media users , about 29 per cent of our population and mobile phone users are about 188 million , " he said while highlighting the young population of Pakistan . 
@@118868476 <h> Health ministry in Gaza says war death toll at 44,875 <p> GAZA - At least 44,875 Palestinians have been martyred and another 106,454 injured since Israel launched its war in Gaza on October 7 , according to the Ministry of Health . <p> Israeli attacks in Gaza killed at least 40 Palestinians and injured another 98 people in the past 24 hours , the health ministry reported on Friday . <p> This includes at least 33 people who were killed , with dozens more wounded , in an Israeli strike Thursday on the densely populated Nuseirat refugee camp , according to officials in the Palestinian enclave . The strike hit a residential block in the central Gaza camp . <p> White House National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan offered cautionary optimism Thursday about the potential for a ceasefire deal in the next month , telling reporters in Jerusalem that they are " looking to close " a deal following meetings with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and top Israeli officials . The death toll from an Israeli airstrike on a residential block in central Gaza has risen to 33 , officials in the Palestinian enclave said on Friday . <p> Images of the aftermath of the attack on the Nuseirat refugee camp Thursday showed people with flashlights searching the rubble of a destroyed building . More than 84 people remain missing or injured , according to the Gaza Government Media Office . At least nine children were killed , health officials said earlier . The strike targeted a " senior terrorist " who led attacks against Israeli civilians and troops , the Israeli military said . 
@@118868487 <h> Hypocrisy reached new heights when TV screens started showing scenes from the Syrian streets . <p> The thirteen-year-old civil war ended in Syria last week . Nothing extraordinary -- as al Bashar , an ophthalmologist , has been replaced by al Bashir , an electrical engineer . Nothing extraordinary -- as for millennia , the Syrian people have been experiencing ' change ' at the cost of their very existence . By 3000 BCE , Syria had already established direct trade links with Anatolia , Babylon , and Egypt . History would witness this country becoming a melting pot for various civilisations , the rise of Christianity , and the birth of Islam . It boasts of witnessing ' change ' for centuries -- from ancient Mesopotamia to modern-day France . Facing the wrath of the Roman and Byzantine empires , Syria has also survived under various dynasties such as the Umayyads , the Abbasids , the Fatimids , the Seljuks , the Mamluks , and the Ottoman . <p> To say that ' Syria has fallen ' is , therefore , an understatement . That after the unceremonious exit of Bashar al Assad , the country will see political instability is obvious but not surprising . Syria has been facing political instability for ages , particularly since gaining independence from France in 1946 . The conflicts with Israel , Lebanon , and Iraq , coupled with internal strife , have never allowed this country any breathing space . Similarly , counting the years the two Assads managed Syria through deceitful means is also insignificant . To criticise the two Assads because they let Russia , the US , T ? rkiye , Iran , Lebanon , Hezbollah , ISIL , and the likes have a free hand -- just to prolong their rule -- is also an exercise in futility . This is not a new phenomenon . <p> From the longest-serving monarchs like Sobhuza II and Queen Elizabeth II to history 's controversial nationalists like Hitler and Stalin to self-proclaimed saviours like Gaddafi and Zia ul Haq , each one of them was convinced of their invincibility and indispensability . To ensure continuity , every ruler would employ every trick in the book to stay in power , even if they had to kill or sacrifice the very country they claimed to be faithful to . Staying in power is instinctive , so they would leave no stone unturned to ensure the continuation of their reigns -- only to pass them on to their revered family members . Even a rare intellectual like Marcus Aurelius , as the Roman Emperor , would pass on the throne to his incompetent son , Commodus . <p> Therefore , history might forgive the two Assads for inviting aggression , willingly witnessing proxy wars , and seeing Syria being ravaged bit by bit . What , then , is surprising in the latest Syrian episode ? Is n't it amazing that during all this time , particularly since 2011 , the world kept talking about terrorism , geopolitics , geoeconomics , Russia-US military involvement , the Israel-Iran-Hezbollah triangular rift , T ? rkiye 's national interest , and the adoption of Syrian children by world celebrities , but no one -- not even the two Assads -- bothered about the people of Syria : their livelihoods , their futures , their dreams , and their existence as a nation . <p> Hypocrisy reached new heights when TV screens started showing scenes from the Syrian streets -- people dancing and chanting victory slogans , Hafez al Assad 's statue being dismantled , and Abu Muhammad al Golani of Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) speaking confidently about Syria 's future . Suddenly , the world realised that besides the proxy warriors , the country was also inhabited by Syrian people , who were jubilant over the victory of revolutionaries . But wait a minute ... ! ! ! If the Syrians were happy , why was a top Russian diplomat ' feeling sorry for the people of Syria ' ? How could a responsible representative of a powerful country feel sad over the Syrian people 's liberation ? It did not make any sense . <p> Simultaneously , on another big screen , a repeat telecast of the Taliban 's conquest of Kabul was on . Instead of Ashraf Ghani , the movie showed Bashar al Assad fleeing the country to an unknown destination . Instead of the Taliban taking charge in the capital city , HTS was seen achieving the feat -- also without facing any resistance whatsoever . The well-trained and adequately equipped Afghan army was replaced by the strong Syrian army , which also disappeared into thin air without firing a bullet . In the UN 's books , both the Taliban and HTS are terrorists . However , unlike Kabul , Damascus has so far not received any checklist to follow before the recent ' change ' is recognised by the world . Deduction ? Perhaps , certain ' terrorists ' deserve respect after all ... ! ! ! The good news ? The US President-elect has declared -- Syria is no longer a US war . <p> The recent ' change ' in Syria has effectively rendered the events between 1967 , when Syria lost the Golan Heights , and the start of the Arab Spring in December 2010 inconsequential . There is no need to read complicated commentaries on Middle Eastern geopolitics and geoeconomics . To understand why and what happened during 2011 -- 2024 , just try deciphering the smiles on the faces of those powerful stakeholders who have not imposed any sanctions on Syria over a ' forceful and unnatural ' regime change . Different connotations of ' might is right ' could also clarify the modern-day concept of realpolitik . Relax . Nothing extraordinary has happened in Syria . It is business as usual . <p> Meanwhile , the optimists among you may wish to forget about Palestine and the UN Security Council 's Resolution 1397 , which called for a two-state solution . Let the UN watch Gaza turn into a Tent City . Forget about Benjamin Netanyahu 's arrest warrants for war crimes and crimes against humanity . Ask senior Syrian officials to prepare for indictments instead . In addition , expect Israel 's recognition by a few more Muslim countries . Abraham Accords-II ? Time permitting , visit the archives and review the conceptual contours of ' Greater Israel ' . Perhaps you will find some plausible explanation for what has been happening in the Middle East , especially since October last year . Lastly , forget about Syria , its constitution , its parliament , and its people . The country is gone with the wind . Let 's talk about their next destination in the Middle East ! 
@@118868520 <p> ISLAMABAD - Pakistan and the European Union on Friday agreed to continue cooperation on emerging challenges of food , energy security , and climate change , underlining sustained engagement . <p> The two sides will particularly focus on areas such as trade , migration , human rights , political , economic and development cooperation with a focus on the Global Gateway strategy . <p> The bilateral relations and cooperation were discussed in the 14th Pakistan-European Union ( EU ) Joint Commission meeting which took stock of recent political developments besides the ongoing formation of the new College of Commissioners , according to a joint press issued on the Joint Commission meeting held recently . <p> According to the Foreign Office , the Joint Commission was preceded by the Sub-Group on Democracy , Governance , Rule of Law and Human Rights in which two sides agreed on the need for continued efforts to strengthen the electoral process . <p> The EU reiterated the importance of political pluralism , democratic values , independent media , vibrant civil society , judicial independence , and international human rights standards , which are key for democratic elections . <p> Both sides reaffirmed their commitment to the protection of all human rights , including women and children 's rights , labour and migrant rights , as well as fundamental freedoms , such as freedom of expression and opinion including growing problem of disinformation . Pakistan presented its reform agenda , including in the framework of the National Action Plan on Human Rights , National Action Plan on Business and Human Rights , as well as actions towards the full implementation of 27 international conventions related to GSP+ . <p> Pakistan and the EU also exchanged views on freedom of religion or belief and the rights of persons belonging to minorities and vulnerable groups and concerns about anti-Muslim hatred . <p> The meeting of the Pakistan-EU Sub-group on Trade also preceded the Joint Commission in which both sides acknowledged the importance of a robust multilateral trading system and exchanged views on recent developments at the multilateral ( WTO ) , plurilateral , and bilateral levels . <p> Both sides acknowledged that since the grant of GSP status in 2014 , the bilateral trade relations have made significant strides . <p> In the meeting of the Sub-Group on Development , both Pakistan and the EU agreed on the continued relevance of key priority areas under the ongoing Multi-annual Indicative Programme ( MIP ) including Green Inclusive Growth , Human Capital/TVET , and Governance including Rule of Law and Human Rights . <p> The EU presented the details of the projects for the period 2025-2027 following the Mid-Term Review of the MIP and updated on the EU 's policy framework and the Global Gateway . Pakistan appreciated the recent visit of the European Investment Bank in Pakistan held in September this year and agreed on the opportunity to enhance engagement within the framework of the Global Gateway by identifying new investments . <p> The EU expressed its continued support to Pakistan in developing green and clean energy . <p> Reiterating their commitment to the Pakistan-EU Strategic Engagement Plan ( SEP ) signed in 2019 , Pakistan and the EU reviewed the state of its implementation , five years on . Pakistan presented proposals to expand bilateral cooperation in additional areas , among others in agriculture , taxation , and disaster risk reduction . <p> The EU reiterated its appreciation for Pakistan 's generosity in hosting Afghan refugees over the decades and welcomed the decision to extend the validity of Proof of Registrations cards of Afghan nationals residing in Pakistan until June 30 , 2025 . The EU also reiterated its support for the Solution Strategy for Afghan Refugees ( SSAR ) , aimed at providing lasting solutions for Afghan refugees and their host communities in neighbouring countries . <p> Pakistan also called for an immediate and unconditional ceasefire in Gaza and complete withdrawal of Israeli troops from the occupied Arab territories . 
@@118868553 <h> Trump and Pakistan <p> The recent election of Donald Trump as the 47th President of the United States marks a significant shift , underscoring the vitality of democracy in capturing the people 's will . Trump 's comeback victory , following his 2020 defeat , symbolises a powerful return to the American political stage . <p> This election represents a change in leadership , replacing Biden 's administration , which faced criticism for its handling of major international issues . The Biden administration 's approach to the Ukraine conflict and the humanitarian crisis in Gaza was viewed as provocative and lacking accountability , drawing widespread backlash . <p> The American public 's verdict is clear : they demanded change , prioritising domestic concerns such as economic stability , safety , and social issues . Trump 's election reflects this desire for a new direction , with hopes for resolutions to conflicts abroad and improvements in domestic conditions , including stricter control of illegal immigration . <p> In foreign policy , Pakistan 's relevance may decline , as Trump 's priorities are likely to focus elsewhere . Historically , US-Pakistan relations have been transactional , and with fewer strategic incentives now , it remains unclear how Pakistan will align with Trump 's vision . 
@@118868679 <p> Fifty-five more Palestinians were martyred and one hundred seventy others injured during Israeli air-strikes in Gaza over past twenty-four hours . <p> According to Palestinian Health Ministry , confirmed martyrdom toll from Israeli onslaught since October 7 last year has risen to forty-four thousand nine hundred thirty . <p> The Ministry said Israel 's genocidal onslaught continues unabated despite calls from the UN Security Council for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza . <p> Meanwhile , Saudi Arabia has renewed call for international community to take serious and effective action to put an end to these flagrant and repeated violations . <p> In a statement , The Saudi Ministry said occupation forces ' persistence in their repeated violations of international law is an inevitable result of absence of activation of international accountability mechanisms . <p> Similarly , Jordan has also condemned targeting of a residential area in central Gaza Strip by Israeli occupation authorities . 
@@118901165 <p> " We honour the extraordinary resilience , bravery and courage of journalists working in the most perilous conditions to document the realities of the Gaza crisis . " <p> Mohamed Duar , Amnesty International Australia 's Occupied Palestinian Territory spokesperson , said , " Freedom of the press is essential to enable democratic and free societies . Freedom of information is a fundamental human right . Journalists and the media are crucial to ensure transparency and accountability . Yet media freedom and the safety of journalists are under threat around the globe . Each attack on journalists is an attack on press , freedom and truth . Journalists are not and should never be a target . " <p> Owda , 27 , thanked the organisation for the recognition and for its efforts in shedding light on the situation in Gaza . <p> " I 'm here , in front of you , surviving more than 420 days . Surviving being killed by bombing , while I am helping my people by spreading the truth and documenting the genocide . I do n't find anything more honourable on earth than defending the rights of defenceless people , the oppressed people . " <p> Alaqad said the award was a powerful reminder that the journalists ' work was far from over and it fueled her determination to continue advocating for Palestinians and ensuring their voices are never forgotten . <p> He added that the day the award was conferred on him coincided with the day of his father 's martyrdom after Israeli forces targeted his house . Al-Sharif also dedicated the award to his father . <p> " What I hope to achieve is to provide international protection for the Palestinian journalists so they can continue , until their last breath , to transmit images and words from inside Gaza , in the complete absence of foreign and Western media . " <p> Shihab-Eldin said he was honoured and humbled to be among the bravest journalists risking everything to ensure people were informed . <p> " They have taught me so much about what it means to bear witness , and what it means to be human . " <p> The awards come shortly after Amnesty International , in a recent report , stated that it found " sufficient basis to conclude that Israel has committed and is continuing to commit genocide against Palestinians in the occupied Gaza Strip . " 
@@118901177 <p> HOW and why the Assad regime collapsed like a house of cards in a mere 11 days , after battling foreign-sponsored rebel groups , including IS and Al Qaeda , for some 13 years with the help of its own foreign friends , Russia , Iran and Hezbollah , will remain the subject of debate and analysis , even speculation , in the coming months and years . <p> Perhaps a little understanding can be gained by the events since the exit of former strongman Bashar al-Assad . He succeeded his father , Hafez al-Assad , the founder of the Baath Party dynasty who came to power after a coup in March 1971 , after the latter passed away in 2000 . <p> Just last weekend ( on Saturday ) Bashar al-Assad was still in Damascus and there was speculation whether he 'd be able to defy the odds again and remain in the saddle . A week on , he has been long gone , and is , probably , by the side of his wife Asma , who is being treated for ' acute blood and bone marrow cancer ' in Moscow . <p> What was once a unified Syria is now fragmented , with the Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , which has its roots in Al Qaeda , in control of major cities such as Damascus , Aleppo , Hama and Homs in addition to Idlib , that it has held for the longest time . This group has powerful backers in the US , Israel and most openly Turkiye , whose intelligence chief has already visited the Syrian capital , where he was driven around by HTS leader Al-Jolani . <p> The West and its key regional allies , Israel and Turkiye , have secured a huge win over the Iran-led ' Axis of Resistance ' . <p> As Ibrahim Kalin arrived at the historic Umayyad Mosque in Damascus to offer prayers , memories were revived of the expanding Ottoman Empire in the early part of the 16th century . However , this time round , the push will stop in Damascus and not continue to Jerusalem . That is a certainty . <p> Elsewhere , Turkiye 's claim of the Syrian pie was meeting with stiff resistance by the Kurdish Syrian Defence Forces ( SDF ) in the oil-rich north-eastern , north-central swathes of the country , where US troops are also present . <p> This tense stand-off did not dissuade Turkiye 's Energy and Natural Resources Minister Alparslan Bayraktar from saying that a gas pipeline project from Qatar to Turkiye via Saudi Arabia , Jordan and Syria could be revived now , that its main opponent in Syria has been ousted . He said if " Syria achieves its ( territorial ) integrity and stability , many other projects could be started too " . <p> On the other hand , the ' liberators ' of Syria seemed content with having rid their country of the Assad regime and were celebrating their victory while Israel was rapidly moving to take over more ( the remaining one-third ) of the Golan Heights it captured in 1967 and illegally annexed in 1981 . <p> Israel 's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , wanted for genocide by the ICC , arrived at the Golan Heights the same day and claimed credit for the fall of Assad , which he attributed to his forces ' attacks on Hezbollah and Iran and not the militants who marched into Damascus . <p> This advance saw Israeli Occupation Forces ( IOF ) overrunning the UN-supervised buffer zone and capturing the strategically important Mount Hermon which , at nearly 2,900 metres , towers over Damascus to its northeast and Lebanon in its north . Israeli troops have also taken over the Quneitra crossing further south . <p> Apart from its land grab , Israel 's air force has carried out some 450 bombing runs over Syria and claims to have destroyed the entire Syrian air force , navy , missile forces , chemical weapons , and defence production facilities . Syria 's electronic warfare capacity has also been denuded . The bodies of two murdered scientists working in the defence establishments have also been found . <p> This forced one commentator to remark : they have only left small arms , such as assault rifles and machineguns , that the disparate militant groups will use when they fight each other in a civil war . They have nothing left to threaten Israel with . <p> In other developments , some members of the pro-Israel Druze community straddling Israel , Syria and Lebanon have called upon Israel to create a ( buffer zone ) homeland for them in the Golan Heights so Israel 's security concerns are addressed adequately . The leader of the Israeli Druze community , which provides a large number of officers and soldiers to the IOF , also visited Abu Dhabi . It is not clear what was discussed . <p> What is clear is that the West and its key regional allies , Israel and Turkiye , have secured a huge win over the so-called Iran-led Axis of Resistance , which has been dismantled in Syria and weakened in Lebanon , with Israeli newspaper Haaretz reporting that Israel is to set up a military base in Somaliland , which is recognised by Israel , the UAE and two other countries , so that the Yemeni Houthis can be smashed . <p> For now , Iran can only issue bold and brave statements against the Zionist regime and its backers , as its options are severely curtailed . With Syria carved up to support the US-Zionist game plan in the region , and with plans to try and crush the Houthis from a base in the Horn of Africa looking more medium- to long-term , it is Iran which seems the next likely target of the West and Israel . <p> Much will depend on the incoming US president Donald Trump who , in the past , has had good relations with Russia and President Vladimir Putin , but has extended an invitation to the Chinese leader Xi Jinping to his inauguration in what some Washington commentators are ascribing to a US attempt to get China on board to isolate Russia . I doubt China will bite the bait . <p> With so much focus on these developments , Israel 's business as usual genocide in Gaza continues apace , with the pro-Zionist genocide Western powers and several OIC members happily playing their unconscionable part in this tragic , live-on-social media mass murder . 
@@118901382 <h> US , Mideast envoys hold meetings on Gaza deal efforts , Syria 's future <p> Egypt - Top Middle Eastern and US diplomats held a series of meetings on Saturday focusing on efforts to reach a ceasefire and hostage deal in Gaza while also discussing the challenges of the post-Assad era in Syria . <p> Egyptian President Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi discussed the ceasefire efforts with visiting US National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan and US Middle East envoy Brett McGurk , his office said . <p> The statement came as Hezbollah-affiliated newspaper Al-Akhbar quoted an unnamed Egyptian official as saying that Israel has objected to some of the names of Palestinian security prisoners Hamas seeks to release in exchange for hostages kidnapped on October 7 , 2023 , including popular Fatah leader Marwan Barghouti . <p> Barghouti is serving five life sentences in an Israeli prison for his part in planning three terror attacks that killed five Israelis during the Second Intifada . <p> " Israel has a vision of alternative lists of Palestinian prisoners , including people who were recently arrested , which could delay the drafting of the agreement , " the Egyptian source was quoted as saying . <p> The source added that Israel has requested that some of the Palestinian security prisoners be sent abroad instead of the West Bank or Gaza , " which may be accepted by the mediators as a compromise to end this new obstacle . " 
@@118901521 <h> ' I 've been able to bring something positive and show the resilience that I have , ' says Habib <p> By Reuters <p> December 15 , 2024 <p> Hady Habib of Lebanon in action during his first round match against Carlos Alcaraz of Spain . -Reuters <p> Hady Habib blazed a trail by taking Lebanon to the Olympic tennis tournament for the first time earlier this year and he is hoping another breakthrough at the Australian Open in January will bring comfort to his war-torn country . <p> The Texas-born 26-year-old enjoyed a special moment when , as a lucky loser , he went down 6-3 6-1 to major winner Carlos Alcaraz in the first round of the Olympic men 's singles at Roland Garros in July . <p> The experience fired his ambitions to get back to the biggest stages in the tennis world and he took a step towards that goal when he won a Challenger title in Chile earlier this month to clinch a spot in Australian Open qualifying . <p> " I just felt so much joy , " he told The National newspaper . <p> " I 'd had a couple of hard weeks before that . This was a goal of mine and to be able to achieve it in this last tournament and being the first Lebanese to win a Challenger , just so much joy . " <p> The world number 216 is determined to make the most of his hard-earned opportunity and has changed plans to go home to Lebanon for Christmas and will instead train in South America with his Argentine coach . <p> Habib moved back to Lebanon with his family at the age of six and is extremely proud to represent the nation , particularly since the war in Gaza spilled over into conflict in the southern part of the country this year . <p> " I 've been able to bring something positive and show the resilience that I have , " he told the newspaper . <p> " Everyone who 's living outside of Lebanon will tell you the same thing : it 's horrific to see what 's happening in a country that we all love so much . " <p> Habib will certainly be able to count on some crowd support in Melbourne in January with around 1% of the Australian population having Lebanese heritage . 
@@118901625 <h> Israeli strikes at UN school in Gaza claim 17 lives including a local mayor <p> Gaza 's civil defence agency said Israeli strikes on the territory killed 17 people on Saturday , including seven at a UN school housing displaced people that the Israeli military said was used as a Hamas command center . <p> Civil defence spokesman Mahmud Bassal told AFP there were seven people killed , including women and children , and at least 10 wounded " when Israeli warplanes targeted the Al-Majida Wasila school west of Gaza City " . <p> The school was run by the UN agency for Palestinian refugees but like many such facilities it has been turned into a makeshift shelter for those displaced by the war in Gaza . <p> The vast majority of Gaza 's population has been displaced by the war , often multiple times . <p> The Israeli military said it struck " Hamas terrorists who were operating in a command and control centre embedded " within the school . <p> Bassal said an Israeli strike on the town hall in Deir el-Balah in central Gaza killed mayor Deiab al-Jaro , and nine other people . <p> The Israeli military said it targeted Jaro in a strike on " the humanitarian area in Deir el-Balah " , accusing him of being " an operative in Hamas 's military wing " . <p> The war in the Gaza Strip was sparked by Hamas 's October 7 , 2023 attack that resulted in the deaths of 1,208 people , mostly civilians , according to an AFP tally of Israeli official figures . <p> Israel 's retaliatory offensive has killed at least 44,930 people in Gaza , a majority of them civilians , according to figures from the Hamas-run territory 's health ministry that the United Nations considers reliable . <h> ABOUT US <p> ARY NEWS brings you 24/7 Live Streaming , Headlines , Bulletins , Talk Shows , Infotainment , and much more . Watch minute-by-minute updates of current affairs and happenings from Pakistan and all around the world ! 
@@118937129 <h> Israel to shut embassy in Ireland over ' extreme anti-Israel policies ' <p> Israel said on Sunday it would close its Dublin embassy due to the Irish government 's " extreme anti-Israel policies " including recognition of a Palestinian state and support for international legal action against its war in Gaza . <p> Israel recalled its ambassador after Ireland 's decision on a Palestinian state in May , and was further angered last week when Dublin backed South Africa 's case at the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) accusing Israel of genocide . <p> " The decision to close Israel 's embassy in Dublin was made in light of the extreme anti-Israel policies of the Irish government , " the foreign ministry said in a statement . <p> " The actions and antisemitic rhetoric used by Ireland against Israel are rooted in the delegitimization and demonization of the Jewish state , along with double standards . Ireland has crossed every red line in its relations with Israel , " Foreign Minister Gideon Saar said in the statement . <p> Irish Prime Minister Simon Harris said the decision was deeply regrettable and his nation would always stand up for human rights and international law . <p> " I utterly reject the assertion that Ireland is anti-Israel . Ireland is pro-peace , pro-human rights and pro-International law , " he said in a post on X. " Ireland wants a two state solution and for Israel and Palestine to live in peace and security . " 
@@118937218 <p> Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif will visit Egypt from December 18 to 20 , 2024 , to participate in the Eleventh Summit of the Developing Eight ( D-8 ) countries being held in Cairo , the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said . <p> Preceding the Summit , Foreign Minister Mohammad Ishaq Dar will attend the 21st Session of the D-8 Council of Ministers on 18 December 2024 . <p> The theme of the 11th D-8 Summit is " Investing in Youth and Supporting SMEs : Shaping Tomorrow 's Economy . " <p> At the Summit , the premier will underline the importance of investing in youth and SMEs to build a strong and inclusive economy , create jobs , advance innovation , and promote local entrepreneurship . <p> He will express Pakistan 's strong commitment to the ideals of D-8 , underscore the importance of fostering partnerships for mutual benefit and prosperity , and promote cooperation in agriculture , food security , and tourism . <p> He will also underline Pakistan 's incentives for youth empowerment and financial development . <p> PM Shehbaz will also attend the Special Session of D-8 on the Humanitarian Crisis and Reconstruction Challenges in Gaza and Lebanon to deliberate on the situation resulting from Israeli aggression in the Middle East . <p> He will underline Pakistan 's principled position on the situation in Palestine and call for peace in the Middle East . <p> On the sidelines of the Summit , the Prime Minister is expected to hold bilateral meetings with participating leaders . 
@@118937324 <h> Philan-thropy must not be viewed solely in the context of giving material things . <p> Both activities of Learning and Giving are divine . These are concepts that are not bound by any yardstick of limits of time , place , or any scale of measurement . With unlimited elasticity , both co-extend their boundaries in accordance with the internal mental makeup of an individual . Enlightened minds in any era of human existence have always been few compared to the population of the time . <p> On the level of philosophy , learning is seen as a step that brings about a change in a person -- not necessarily of irrevocable permanence but malleable enough to absorb a fresh body of knowledge relating to behaviour , knowledge , capability , or even skills arising from experience . Inherently , learning has to remain dynamic -- it can not be static . <p> To the proverb , Reading maketh a man , I would add , and " Company " giveth a moral compass to any individual . Gunamudian David Boaz , the famous Indian psychologist who earned a PhD from Oxford University in 1935 , made the following observation : Learning is the process by which the individual acquires various habits , knowledge , and attitudes that are necessary to meet the demands of life in general . It follows that learning is a consequence of experience . <p> Those who have command over their knowledge , as limited as it may be , should n't fear sharing it because , whatever it is , it is known best to the possessor . Globally , but more so in our cultural context , once a new body of knowledge is learned -- or even when existing knowledge is modified -- there is a general reluctance to share it . The least an enlightened manager must do is to manage learning by creating , capturing , sharing , distilling , validating , adopting , and proliferating it with a willing desire to help improve others . <p> Giving is a holy act . The word giving commonly connotes , to most minds , the parting of material things and , in particular , the giving of money as a gift or as charity . This is a myopic , view of the concept of Giving . The concept is not restricted to the giving of material things alone ; it involves the non-material and the intangible . <p> In corporate and business settings , I have seen great reluctance on the part of managers , supervisors , and leaders to share with their colleagues or teammates information and knowledge that , in my view , can help others grow in their careers and acquire wisdom . People do not give time to one another . Many distressed individuals in society are simply desirous of being heard , yet we tend not to even lend them our ears . <p> Philanthropy must not be viewed solely in the context of giving material things . The selflessness of a teacher who gives more than the value of wages received to their pupils is an act of the highest form of philanthropy . <p> The Giving Pledge movement , founded and promoted by Warren Buffet and Bill &amp; Melinda Gates , was restricted to voluntary pledging of half of the wealth possessed by billionaires around the world . This , too , did not happen . How productive it would be for world peace if all billionaires pledged their moral and material support , in addition to time , attention , and resources , to alleviate the suffering of innocent men , women , and children in Gaza and other theatres of war and instability . The fact that such a move has not occurred reflects the selfishness and stinginess of the privileged , who can not feel the pain of the oppressed Palestinians , Kashmiris , Ukrainians , etc . Money can not ever buy morality or happiness . Nobility of intent , thought , and action alone leads to noblesse oblige . Nothing else can or will . <p> Giving must not be contextualised within the confines of appearing as a two-way street . Nay , giving must remain a one-way street to retain its nobility . Giving has to be without expectations of any return or reward . <p> Knowledge , skills , and talent must not be cold-stored , warehoused , or hoarded . In my view , the most grievous crime against humanity is to prevent the seeking of knowledge and understanding . Monarchies in some democratic societies relentlessly pursue the goal of keeping the populace illiterate . They deviously ensure that giving freedom to think remains absent , for it may lead people to question their rule : Who are you to lord over us ? They give material comforts but deny the freedom to imagine . The possibility of such a question haunts many nations from Morocco to Indonesia . <p> Learning must remain a cradle-to-grave question . However , what is learned should not be taken to the grave . Knowledge should not be buried ; the only way to give it immortality is to share it with others . <p> Those who are unafraid to learn will remain fearless in sharing what they know . We must learn as much as we can . However , being a reservoir of knowledge is not a better station than being a flowing stream , where any aspirant can sip from it . 
@@118937326 <h> Syria 's Fall <h> The real challenge in Assad 's life came during the Arab Spring . <p> An era of fifty years of oppression , subjugation , and suppression by the Al-Assad family came to an end on 8 December 2024 , by a group of Sunni-led militant forces , mainly headed by Abu Mohammed al-Jolani under the umbrella of Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) . Remarkably , within the span of eleven days , Damascus was liberated from a tyrant dictator by ( ironically ) another extremist and fundamentalist anti-Assad force . Unsurprisingly , the ousted Assad and his family have been granted asylum in Russia , which was once the critical ally of Assad 's regime . <p> Since 1971 , Syria has been under the tight control of the Assad family . At that time , it was ruled by Hafez al-Assad , who belonged to the Alawite sect , one of the breakaway branches of Shia Islam , although the majority of Syria 's population followed the Sunni faith . His rule was also marked by the oppression and subjugation of the Sunni population of the country , although the ruling Ba'ath Party claimed to be a Syrian nationalist and secular party . Thus , the seeds of rebellion and discontent started in the early 1980s . However , with the turn of the 21st century and the change of command falling on the shoulders of Bashar al-Assad , he proved no different from his father when it came to political repression and economic coercion of the Sunni majority population . <p> The real challenge in Assad 's life came during the Arab Spring ( 2011 ) in Syria , where protestors demanded democracy and human rights . Despite his brutal tactics against protests , he survived with the help of Iran . However , this led to a civil war in Syria , where many Sunni-led militant groups challenged the authority of Assad 's regime . <p> Initially , Iran 's support for the Assad regime served a strategic purpose : strengthening the so-called " axis of resistance " network . For Tehran , it was critical to maintain the flow of weapons , information , and personnel to Hezbollah and Hamas , based in Lebanon and Gaza respectively , in order to weaken Israel . Without Syria on Iran 's chessboard , the supply chain would not operate smoothly for long . Thus , the post-2011 pro-Assad regime was a strategic asset for Tehran and its axis of resistance . <p> Under President Putin , who sought to expand Russian influence and demonstrate military might across Europe and the Middle East , Russia found an ally in Syria . Through its military support , the Assad regime was able to hold a strong grip on power . In return , Russia secured what it wanted : a naval airbase along Syria 's Mediterranean coast , a symbol of Russian power in the region . <p> What changed in the last eleven days to end 54 years of Assad family rule over Syria ? <p> First , since the 7 October 2023 attacks , Iran and its proxies have come under severe assault from Israel and its allies . This has led to the decapitation of the top leadership of Hezbollah and Hamas , as well as the destruction of critical infrastructure . Many intelligence reports claim that by October 2024 , Hezbollah was at its weakest point due to the loss of its leadership and critical weapons . Similarly , Hamas not only lost its leadership but also failed to garner credible support from Hezbollah and Tehran . Israel 's attacks on Iranian assets and pro-Iranian leadership across the Middle East dealt a humiliating blow to Tehran . Despite attempts to retaliate with direct attacks on Israel , Tehran failed to inflict significant damage . Consequently , the Gaza war greatly weakened Tehran and its axis of resistance , which in turn impacted the Assad regime , heavily reliant on Tehran and Hezbollah . Without their support , Syrian rebels seized the opportunity to topple Assad , forcing him to flee the country . <p> Second , another key ally of the Assad regime , Russia , has been preoccupied with its war in Ukraine since 24 February 2022 . Much of its manpower , weapons , and attention are focused on the Ukrainian front . Syrian rebels recognised that President Putin 's commitments in Ukraine would prevent the Russian air force from coming to Assad 's aid as it did in 2015 . Without Russian backing , Assad 's regime could no longer sustain itself in Damascus . <p> Third , in the absence of Tehran and Moscow , Israel capitalised on the situation in Syria . Intelligence reports suggest that Mossad and the CIA provided financial , weaponry , and logistical support to Syrian rebels , playing a critical role in toppling the Assad regime . Israel has a history of exploiting sectarian and ethnic divisions in the region to its advantage , ensuring that fractured nations remain unable to unite against Israel for the Palestinian cause and self-determination . <p> Firstly , the biggest loser in this scenario is Tehran , which has lost a critical ally essential for maintaining its regional influence and sustaining the supply chain to Hezbollah and Hamas . With Syria gone , the future of the entire axis of resistance is now in jeopardy . This is also a setback for Hamas and the Palestinian resistance , as Tehran 's ability to provide financial and military support to their struggle against Israel has been severely diminished . <p> Secondly , Russia faces a significant loss . Its naval bases along Syria 's Mediterranean coast can not function effectively without Assad 's support . This is not only a strategic setback but also a blow to Russian pride . <p> The primary beneficiary is Israel , which has succeeded in disrupting the axis of resistance and eliminating a major threat to its security . Turkey has also seen a tactical advantage , as the removal of the Assad regime could facilitate the creation of a " safe zone " near its border to house Syrian refugees currently in Turkey . 
@@118937522 <p> Prime Minister Muhammad Shehbaz Sharif will undertake an official visit to Egypt from 18 to 20 of this month to participate in the Eleventh Summit of the Developing Eight ( D-8 ) countries being held in Cairo . <p> According to Foreign Office , preceding the Summit , Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Mohammad Ishaq Dar will attend the 21st Session of the D-8 Council of Ministers on Wednesday . <p> The theme of the 11th D-8 Summit is " Investing in Youth and Supporting SMEs : Shaping Tomorrow 's Economy . " <p> The Prime Minister will express Pakistan 's strong commitment to the ideals of D-8 , underscore the importance of fostering partnerships for mutual benefit and prosperity , and promoting cooperation in agriculture , food security and tourism . <p> The Prime Minister will also underline Pakistan 's incentives for youth empowerment and financial development . <p> Shehbaz Sharif will also attend the Special Session of D-8 on the Humanitarian Crisis and Reconstruction Challenges in Gaza and Lebanon to deliberate on the situation resulting from Israeli aggression in the Middle East . <p> He will underline Pakistan 's principled position on the situation in Palestine and call for peace in the Middle East . <p> On the sidelines of the Summit , the Prime Minister is expected to hold bilateral meetings with participating leaders . 
@@118964029 <p> ISLAMABAD : Prime Minister Sheh ? baz Sharif and Chief of Army Staff Gene ? ral Asim Munir on Monday held a meeting on key security concerns , including a recent PTI protest in Islamabad in which several lives were lost over the course of demonstrations spanning multiple days . <p> The government did not share details of the meeting with the media , but a source privy to the meeting told Dawn that the huddle discussed the Nov 24 D-Chowk protest and vowed to spare nobody involved in violence and the killing of law enforcers . <p> " It was decided that no leniency will be shown for those who killed security personnel and destroyed state property , " the source said . The meeting , attended by top security officials , also discussed a surge in terrorism , especially in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan . <p> The huddle also took stock of a renewed threat by KP Chief Minister Ali Amin Gandapur about another protest march to Islamabad if the government did not release PTI founder Imran Khan from jail . The source said the meeting also remembered the Army Public School tragedy on the occasion of its 10th anniversary on Monday . Security officials gave a detailed briefing on internal and external security matters . <p> PM to visit Egypt for two-day D-8 summit <p> D-8 Summit <p> PM Shehbaz Sharif will visit Egypt from December 18 to 20 to participate in the 11th Summit of the Developing Eight ( D-8 ) in Cairo . Preceding the summit , Deputy Prime Minister Ishaq Dar will attend the 21st session of the D-8 Council of Ministers on December 18 , the Foreign Office spokesperson said in a statement . <p> " At the summit , the prime minister will underline the importance of investing in youth and SMEs for building a strong and inclusive economy ; creating jobs ; advancing innovation ; and promoting local entrepreneurship , the spokesperson added . <p> The PM will express Pakistan 's strong commitment to the ideals of D-8 , underscore the importance of fostering partnerships for mutual benefit and prosperity , and promote cooperation in agriculture , food security , and tourism . He will also underline Pakistan 's incentives for youth empowerment and financial development , the statement added . <p> The prime minister will also attend the special session of D-8 on the humanitarian crisis and reconstruction challenges in Gaza and Lebanon to deliberate on the situation resulting from Israeli aggression in the Middle East . <p> He would underline Pakistan 's principled position on the situation in Palestine and call for peace in the Middle East . On the sidelines of the summit , the prime minister is expected to hold bilateral meetings with participating leaders . 
@@118964102 <h> Pakistan urges solutions to long-standing global disputes such as Palestine , Kashmir at CICA <p> Pakistan stressed the need for just and inclusive political solutions to long-standing global disputes , such as the Palestine and Kashmir issues , at the 7th Ministerial Meeting of the Conference on Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia ( CICA ) . <p> The meeting , hosted by Azerbaijan , was addressed virtually by Pakistan 's Deputy Prime Minister Ishaq Dar , who participated from Egypt , where he is attending a summit of D-8 developing nations focused on Gaza and Lebanon . <p> Dar highlighted Pakistan 's efforts to promote cooperation , peace , stability , and security in Asia , while acknowledging the challenges that hinder the region 's shared economic and political goals . " Lasting progress can not be achieved in isolation , " he told the gathering . <p> " Persistent challenges , including political disputes , conflicts , foreign occupations and the denial of self-determination , along with poverty and illiteracy , undermine the collective development of Asia , " he added . <p> Dar underscored the importance of addressing the root causes of conflicts to achieve sustainable peace and security . " A just resolution of the Palestine and Jammu and Kashmir issues and guaranteeing their right to self-determination is key to fostering lasting peace in the region , " he stated . <p> The DPM also emphasised the role of strengthening regional connectivity in driving economic integration and sustainable development . <p> He pointed to initiatives such as the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor ( CPEC ) and the Belt and Road Initiative ( BRI ) as potential catalysts for regional economic cooperation and prosperity . <p> " As the global economic centre of gravity shifts , it is essential that we seize the moment of opportunity to ensure inclusive regional transformation , " he said , stressing CICA 's importance in fostering collaboration across Asia . <p> Dar reaffirmed Pakistan 's commitment to CICA 's vision of advancing dialogue , mutual respect , and adherence to international law to resolve disputes , urging member states to continue utilising the platform for regional cooperation and collective progress . <p> CICA , established in 1992 and headquartered in Kazakhstan , began as a Central Asian initiative but now includes members from the Middle East and Southeast Asia . Pakistan , as a founding member , views the platform as essential for addressing regional economic development and integration . 
@@118964104 <p> In a groundbreaking legal challenge , five Palestinians from Gaza , the occupied West Bank , and the United States are suing the US government , seeking to halt American military assistance to Israel due to its involvement in alleged serious human rights abuses . <p> The lawsuit , filed on Tuesday , accuses the US Department of State of failing to enforce a federal law that prohibits the transfer of funds to foreign military units implicated in gross violations of human rights , Al-Jazeera reported . <p> The case revolves around the Leahy Law , a regulation that bars the US from providing military assistance to foreign units that are credibly accused of engaging in actions such as torture , extrajudicial killings , enforced disappearances , and rape . <p> The plaintiffs argue that the State Department has ignored its obligations under this law , especially amid the ongoing escalation of violence since the Gaza War erupted on October 7 , 2023 . <p> The lawsuit underscores the alarming rise in Israeli military actions , which have resulted in the deaths of over 45,000 Palestinians in Gaza alone , according to UN estimates as the human rights organisations have also accused the Israeli military of committing war crimes , including genocide . <p> The lead plaintiff in the case , identified as Amal Gaza , is a teacher from Gaza who has been displaced seven times since the war began . In addition , 20 of her family members have been killed in Israeli airstrikes . <p> " My suffering and the unimaginable loss my family has endured would be significantly lessened if the US stopped providing military assistance to Israeli units committing gross violations of human rights , " Gaza stated in the lawsuit . <p> The Leahy Law , passed in 1997 , prohibits US military aid to foreign security forces implicated in serious human rights violations . The law aims to ensure that US taxpayer dollars are not used to fund abuses abroad . <p> Human rights groups , alongside the plaintiffs , argue that the US government has failed to implement this law in relation to Israel , despite multiple reports of abuses in Gaza and the West Bank . <p> Raed Jarrar , advocacy director at DAWN ( Democracy for the Arab World Now ) , a US-based non-profit supporting the plaintiffs , emphasised that the case is about holding the US government accountable to its own laws . " We 're asking the government to obey the law , " said Jarrar . <p> For months , human rights advocates have urged President Joe Biden 's administration to impose restrictions on military assistance to Israel amid ongoing reports of human rights violations , particularly in Gaza . <p> Israeli forces have been accused of using US-made weapons in several attacks in Gaza , some of which targeted civilian areas and led to significant casualties . Reports have documented indiscriminate bombings , including strikes that killed dozens of Palestinian civilians . <p> Furthermore , the violence in the West Bank has intensified since the outbreak of the Gaza war , with the UN 's humanitarian office reporting 770 Palestinian deaths in the region between October 7 and the end of November 2023 . <p> The US government provides Israel with at least $3.8 billion annually in military aid , and additional funding has been allocated since the escalation of the Gaza conflict . <p> Researchers at Brown University recently estimated that the Biden administration has provided an additional $17.9 billion since the start of the war . These funds have been crucial in supporting Israel 's military operations , yet critics argue that continued assistance is complicit in the ongoing human rights abuses . <p> According to Jarrar , the violations committed by Israeli forces are so widespread and severe that applying the Leahy Law would render most Israeli military units ineligible for US assistance . " If the US were to stop sending weapons , there is no way for Israel to continue its military operations , " Jarrar added . <p> This legal challenge brings attention to the broader debate over US foreign policy and its role in the Israel-Palestine conflict , with many questioning whether American military aid should be conditional on adherence to international human rights standards . <p> As the lawsuit progresses , it remains to be seen how the courts will interpret the Leahy Law 's application to Israel and whether the US government will take steps to address the growing calls for accountability regarding its military support for Israel . 
@@118964240 <p> DOHA : Hamas said talks in Qatar on Tuesday aimed at a truce and hostage-prisoner exchange in Gaza were " serious and positive " , a day after an Israeli delegation arrived in Doha to meet with mediators . <p> " Hamas affirms that , in light of the serious and positive discussions taking place today in Doha under the auspices of our Qatari and Egyptian brothers , reaching an agreement for a ceasefire and a prisoner exchange is possible if the occupation ceases to impose new conditions , " the Palestinian group said in a statement . <p> Israeli officials arrived in Doha on Monday for talks aimed at bridging gaps between the two parties , a source with knowledge of the discussions told AFP , speaking on condition of anonymity due to their sensitivity . <p> The meetings follow a trip by David Barnea , who heads Israel 's Mossad intelligence agency , to the Qatari capital on Wednesday , the source said . <p> Qatar , along with the United States and Egypt , has been involved in months of behind-the-scenes negotiations for a Gaza truce and hostage release . <p> But apart from a one-week pause in fighting late last year , during which scores of Hamas-held hostages were released in exchange for Palestinians held in Israeli jails , successive negotiations have failed to halt the war . <p> On Monday , Israel 's Defence Minister Israel Katz indicated Israeli negotiators have " not been this close to an agreement " for the release of hostages in Gaza since the November 2023 truce . <p> A senior Hamas official based in Doha also said on Monday that negotiations for a deal were " closer than ever before " but warned Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu could still " disrupt the agreement as he has done every time before " . 
@@118964278 <p> Humza Yousaf , Scotland 's first Asian and Muslim leader , has announced his decision to step away from front-line politics in the next Scottish elections set for May 2026 , also sounding a warning about the growing political sway of billionaire Elon Musk . <p> In a letter to his Glasgow Pollok constituency party , Yousaf , 39 , revealed his plans to resign as an MSP after 15 years in Holyrood . <p> The former first minister , who has been serving as a backbencher since resigning from his leadership role in April , expressed hope that his achievements would inspire young people from diverse backgrounds to pursue public service . <p> His resignation has renewed speculation about the future of his predecessor , Nicola Sturgeon , who has yet to decide whether to run in the 2026 elections . <p> Sturgeon has confirmed plans to submit nomination papers , but many believe she may also opt to leave Holyrood rather than remain on the backbenches . <p> In an interview with journalist Mehdi Hasan , Yousaf issued a stark warning about Musk 's growing political influence , particularly in UK and US elections . <p> Yousaf accused Musk , who owns the popular social media platform X , of " amplifying disinformation " and potentially bankrolling far-right movements , including the UK 's Reform Party . <p> " Alarm bells ought to be ringing right up and down British politics about the threat posed by Musk , " Yousaf said , referencing reports that the tech billionaire has been funding Donald Trump 's election campaigns in the US and is seeking to exert similar influence in the UK . <p> Yousaf cited the summer 's race riots in Southport as evidence of Musk 's alleged involvement in inciting unrest . " He amplified disinformation that undoubtedly lit the fuse for some of the race riots we saw , " he claimed . <p> Musk 's alleged proximity to power , including his stay at Trump 's Mar-a-Lago and involvement in key US political appointments , drew sharp criticism . " If he is trying to emulate that influence in the next UK general election , that should ring alarm bells , " Yousaf added . <p> During the same interview , he delivered a searing critique of the UK government 's foreign policy , particularly its stance on the Gaza conflict . <p> He accused the Labour-led government of complicity in what he called a genocide , citing the UK 's provision of arms and military equipment to Israel . <p> " How can they not be complicit ? " he asked . " We have an Israeli government that has killed at least 45,000 people . The person who leads that government has an ICC arrest warrant for war crimes and crimes against humanity . And yet , astonishingly , the UK government is sending weapons , arms , and components for F-35 jets . " 
@@118964348 <h> Travesties Uncounted <p> Distracted by the Israeli ceasefire with Hezbollah , the launch of the offensive in Syria , the capitulation of Bashar al-Assad , and the rebranding of ISIS and al-Qaeda into the new Syrian government , as well as the rising escalations in Ukraine , the world seems to have forgotten that the Gaza genocide continues unabated . Israel now operates with the complete silence of the international community , effectively shifting the news cycle away from an active genocide to the machinations and PR exercises unfolding in Syria . Reports of atrocities emerge daily : schools bombed , hospitals burned , toddlers shot in the legs by snipers , and vital food supplies destroyed . <p> The depth of human depravity is displayed relentlessly , yet the global response remains one of apathy , ignoring a genocide live-streamed in plain sight . A stark symbol of this stage in the genocide is the recent death of Khaled Nabhan in an airstrike on the Nuseirat Camp in central Gaza . Nabhan , a Palestinian grandfather whose grief for his three-year-old granddaughter -- whom he called " the soul of my soul " -- touched millions worldwide , has now himself been deliberately targeted and killed by Israel . Still , no consequences follow . <p> No atrocity appears to cross a threshold too far . No murder is deemed too heinous . The West , led by the United States , United Kingdom , France , and Germany , continues to support and facilitate this genocide without hesitation . Yet , just as the world mourned the soul of my soul , it will remember the crimes committed and the silence that enabled them . 
@@118964450 <h> Does US politician John Edward James stand with those who attacked Islamabad on November 24 ? <p> Monitoring Desk : John Edward James who is a member of the U.S. House of Representatives from Michigan has said that he is worried about his Pakistani brothers and sisters and stated that he stands with them . <p> Serving in the US Army John Edward James was part of Operation Iraqi Freedom ( OIF ) that killed more than 100,000 Iraqi citizens . The operation began on March 20 , 2003 , with airstrikes that were infamous for ' collateral damage ' of innocent civilians mostly women and children . John Edward James served eight years in the US Army , participating in multiple tours of duty in Operation Iraqi Freedom as an AH-64 Apache pilot . <p> Interestingly such a military man who had been a part of killing 100,00 innocent Iraqis including women and children is so concerned about what happened in Islamabad during November 24-26 and he has accused the government of Pakistan of ' murdering its innocent citizens ' . In his message , he added that he stands with his Pakistani brothers and sisters in calling for justice and freedom ' . Though it is a glaring example of intervention in the domestic affairs of any government and passing such strong and loaded remarks such as ' murdering its innocent citizens ' , it is understood that Pakistan 's foreign office would not respond to his statement for obvious reasons of avoiding exchanging any unpleasant words against any US politician , however , is it not the responsibility of Pakistan 's politicians to respond such unfounded and reckless allegations against the state of Pakistan ? <p> He is so categorical in his accusation as he had been walking around in Islamabad when according to him the government ( of Pakistan ) was murdering people . He could have an opportunity to at least follow impartial media before throwing allegations on Pakistan 's government and then he could have known what happened on November 24-26 in Islamabad . <p> The real side of the story shows that the Islamabad High Court ( IHC ) on 21 November directed the federal government to take all necessary measures to maintain law and order in the federal capital and directed the Interior Minister to engage with the PTI leadership in this regard . The government contacted PTI and was initially asked to postpone the protest because the Belarusian President was scheduled to visit Pakistan along with 100 plus staff including his cabinet members and a Chinese high-level delegation was also arriving in Islamabad . <p> PTI was subsequently offered by the government Sangjhani area as a designated location for protest instead of opting to protest in the Red Zone . However , PTI leadership refused all offered and entered Islamabad along with violent protestors who were using firearms , steel slingshots , stun grenades , tear gas shells , and nail-studded batons to force their way to Red Zone Islamabad . <p> John Edward James should have seen videos of PTI social media handlers to see how 1500 plus hard-core fighters were using militant tactics to attack law enforcement agencies . During this , a vehicle also ran over Rangers personnel performing duty at a check post in Islamabad , resulting death ( shahadat ) of three Rangers soldiers and critical injuries to five . Besides , during the violent protest , one policeman embraced Shahadat , and 232 personnel of law enforcement agencies were also grievously injured by PTI followers . This violent mob not only attacked security forces but also set multiple police vehicles on fire , showcased firearms , burnt trees and police tents , damaged properties , and created terror among the common citizens . Besides , 11 vehicles of law enforcement agencies were damaged including prison vans set ablaze . <p> A question arises that Western politicians such as John Edward James show concern over political events in Pakistan while forgetting the Palestinian genocide , the bombing of Syria , and the killings of thousands of innocent children and women in Lebanon , Gaza , and Syria . Is it not the responsibility of the government of Pakistan to contest John Edward James and ask him to provide proof of his allegations that the Pakistani government was ' murdering its innocent citizens ' ? Undoubtedly , Pakistan 's Embassy in the United States would not respond to John 's wild allegations so the responsibility lies over the responsible media of Pakistan to raise the issue and demands John Edward James to provide proof of what he is accusing the Pakistani government for . 
@@118964495 <p> Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif has expressed Pakistan 's continued support to all efforts against the sufferings and human rights violations of the people of Gaza and Lebanon . <p> He was talking to Saudi delegation of the Shura Council led by Chairman of the Council Dr. Abdullah bin Muhammad bin Ibrahim Al Sheikh , which called on him in Islamabad today . <p> On this occasion , the Prime Minister commended Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman for hosting the Arab-Islamic Summit , which reinforced the Muslim Ummah 's call for peace in Gaza , Lebanon and in the region . <p> Shehbaz Sharif said that we are active in expanding economic and financial ties with Saudi Arabia as agreements worth two point eight million dollars have been signed between the two countries , in which work has been started on many aspects . <p> He expressed hope that both the countries will start getting the fruits of these agreements soon . <p> He highlighted the role of two point five million Pakistani 's community in Saudi Arabia and said that they act as a profound bridge between the two countries . <p> Commenting on the Pak-Saudi relationship , the Prime Minister said that Pakistan 's longstanding relationship with Saudi Arabia is a very important pillar of its foreign policy . <p> Shehbaz Sharif said that the Government and people of Pakistan deeply appreciate the assistance provided by Saudi Arabia in difficult times . He added that parliamentary exchanges are very important to further strengthen the relationship between the two countries . <p> He extended felicitations to Saudi Arabia for winning the right to host the " FIFA World Cup 2034 " and said that I am sure that Saudi Arabia will organize the event in best manner . <p> The Prime Minister also expressed good wishes to the custodians of the Two Holy Mosques , King Salman bin Abdulaziz and the Saudi Crown Prince and Prime Minister Prince Mohammad bin Salman . 
@@118964496 <p> Pakistan and Egypt have called for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza to prevent further loss of innocent Palestinian lives . <p> The resolve was expressed during a meeting between Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Ishaq Dar and Egyptian Minister of Foreign Affairs , Emigration and Expatriates Badr Abdelatty on the sidelines of the D-8 Ministerial Meeting in Cairo . <p> On this occasion , they discussed regional developments including the ongoing Israeli genocide in Gaza and atrocities in the West Bank and highly criticized ongoing Israeli genocide in Gaza . <p> The two Foreign Ministers also expressed unequivocal support for establishment of a viable , contiguous and independent Palestinian state based on pre-June 1967 borders with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital . <p> The Deputy Prime Minister appreciated the role played by Egypt for facilitating humanitarian assistance for the people of Gaza and its diplomatic efforts for a ceasefire in occupied Palestine . <p> Ishaq Dar congratulated the Egyptian government for hosting the D-8 Summit and the Ministerial Meeting and thanked Foreign Minister Abdelatty for the warm hospitality . <p> Appreciating the deep-rooted multifaceted ties between the two countries , both agreed to further consolidate political , defence , cultural , economic and trade ties and people-to-people contacts . 
@@118970670 <h> Is rise of multipolarity reshaping global order and redefining power dynamics ? <p> A shakeup of the international world order is underway . The liberal , free , rules-based Western order is repeatedly challenged by resurrecting powers and emerging powers , recalibrating the existing unipolar system . Are these shifts in global political tectonic plates being reset ? If so , will the reset lead to widespread conflicts , or is it a natural recalibration of the international political order ? <p> To assess the tremors felt on the political Richter scale , Big Picture speaks to academics to determine if the rising multipolarity and weakening of once-dominant multilateral institutions are paving the route for a watershed moment in history . <h> ' A world at war ' <p> According to the Uppsala Conflict Data Programme , the past two years have witnessed more war and conflict than any two years since the end of the Second World War , said Dr Paul Poast , Deputy Dean of Doctoral Education , Social Science Division and Associate Professor , Department of Political Science at the University of Chicago ( UChicago ) . Referring to his piece published last year in the Atlantic , titled " Not a World War But a World at War " , Dr Poast feels that the world is exiting the Pax Americana , and the rising conflicts are a product of that . <p> " There used to be a single hegemon who maintained world order and , as a result , kept a lid on all these conflicts , and that is disappearing . There is a big question about the extent to which the Pax Americana was , indeed Pax -- truly peaceful . Still , the movement of the world away from a unipolar moment more towards multipolarity is having an effect . I believe that the conflicts we 're seeing in the world are a product of that directly and indirectly . " <p> Talking about the direct impact of unipolarity fading and the resurrection of major powers like Russia , Dr Poast highlights the identity of a great power being great is to " dominate the region , and that means dominating Ukraine . So that is one way in which the re-emergence of great power has led directly to this conflict , but there are also indirect ways , and this is very well captured by a phrase I 've heard others use , which is ' great power competition leads to great power distraction ' " . <p> With major powers too distracted to counter each other , Dr Poast stresses that the powers are not dedicated enough to put the diplomatic work that would typically have been put into trying to control conflicts . <p> " You can see this in the case of Armenia and Azerbaijan , for example . When their conflict started to renew , it was partly because the US was not in the same diplomatic position ; Russia , who would typically try to rectify the conflict , was distracted by the war in Ukraine or looking in the Middle East . <p> Ukrainian soldiers are pictured in their tanks , amid Russia 's invasion on Ukraine , in Bucha , in Kyiv region , Ukraine April 2 , 2022. -- Reuters <p> " After all , it is busy with everything else going on in the world trying to counter Russia , worrying about China and East Asia that it may not be putting in the same type of diplomatic work that would be necessary to have either prevent October 7 , 2023 , or have more directly steered , say Israel 's policy since October last year ; and this is another way we see great power competition feeding into great power distraction . " <h> A unipolar or multipolar world ? <p> In a world with current shifts in global power dynamics and the rise of multipolarity , does this signal a more stable international order , or does it trigger competition and conflict among emerging powers ? <p> " The United States , both militarily and economically , remains the world 's sole superpower . It is still a unipolar world . China , however , is rising as a near-peer , and Russia is growing increasingly assertive . Neither of them , however , can match the US in GDP or defense spending , " said Dr Kenneth Holland , the Chief of Party of the USAID higher education project in Pakistan -- Higher Education System Strengthening Activity ( HESSA ) and a Political Scientist from UChicago , unequivocally . <p> However , Dr Naeem Ahmed , Chairperson of the Department of International Relations at the University of Karachi ( KU ) , disagrees with the idea of the world being unipolar . " The world has moved towards multipolarity in the last few decades , and different power centers are emerging , like Shanghai Cooperation Organisation ( SCO ) , Association of Southeast Asian Nations ( ASEAN ) , and BRICS -- this is not a unipolar world , and this is now becoming evident . " <p> Does this give rise to a more stable world ? Dr Ahmed , shares from the Cold War era , stating , " During the Cold War , there were two superpowers . The international political system was controlled and , I would say , hijacked by those two superpowers . According to neorealists , a bipolar international political order was stable . ( A multipolar system with ) more actors give rise to a probability of conflicts and competition because there are more power centres , each with its interests , thus making it difficult for a stable international order to be established . " <p> He further specifies that the nature of the global political order also matters -- whether political , strategic or economic . " So far , we 've seen that the economic international order is multipolar and is even going towards multipolarity , in which we see BRICS , ASEAN , and the European Union ( EU ) . However , if we look at the strategic or political context , it is bilateral in the making , where China is rising . China is challenging the hegemony of the US in the international order with SCO as an example , " shares Dr Ahmed , for whom a multipolar global order will feature more competition , a breaking reality in the contemporary system . <p> When asked about the evolving relationships between great powers like the US , China , Russia , and the EU , will their competition lead to more strategic confrontations or a new form of cooperative global governance ? <p> Dr Holland , a Political Scientist from UChicago , said , " Two competing blocs are emerging -- one led by the United States and one by China . While the G7 countries are united in their opposition to Russian and Chinese aggression , the budding alliance between Russia and China is burdened by conflicting interests , including which great power should dominate Central Asia . There is no Second Cold War , since the Chinese and American economies are interdependent . " <h> A unipolar world with weakening multilateralism ? <p> Multilateral institutions like the United Nations ( UN ) , the World Trade Organisation ( WTO ) , and the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) once played a pivotal role in maintaining global stability . But are they still relevant in a fragmented world ? <p> " Because two of the five permanent members of the UN Security Council , Russia and China , possess the veto , the United Nations plays a diminished role in a world marked by efforts of revisionist powers , such as China and Russia , to challenge the American-led rules-based , liberal international order . China and Russia have not yet developed institutions capable of challenging the dominance of the IMF and World Bank in fighting global poverty . The alienation of the United States has weakened the WTO , and protectionism is rising . China is the major beneficiary of the WTO 's trade-favouring rules and has the most to lose from the weakening of the organisation , " said Dr Holland , a political scientist from UChicago . <p> The People 's Republic of China flag and the US flag fly on a lamp post along Pennsylvania Avenue near the US Capitol in Washington during then-Chinese President Hu Jintao 's state visit , January 18 , 2011. -- Reuters <p> With the changing dynamics of the global order today , the role those multilateral institutions once played now is different as compared to the role they played during and post-Cold War , said Dr Ahmed , Chairperson , Department of International Relations at KU , drawing attention to the joint communiqu ? of the 23rd Meeting of the Council of Heads of Government of Member States of the SCO . <p> " The joint communique of SCO opposes protectionist actions , unilateral sanctions and trade restrictions that undermine the multilateral trading system and global sustainable development . The SCO members denounce the developed world 's protectionist actions against WTO 's free trade regulations . If the developed world or the West keeps protecting their markets while capturing others ' markets , that may not be acceptable , " he stresses on the voices of dissent that are rising against these institutions and the need for these organisations to redefine their role . <p> What of the UN ? Especially with all sceptics raising fingers at it for the organisation 's inability to achieve a ceasefire in Gaza even after more than a year of the Israeli onslaught on Gaza . <p> " Criticising the UN as ineffective because of conflicts like Ukraine and Gaza is , in my view , a misunderstanding of the mission of the UN , " said Dr Poast , Deputy Dean of Doctoral Education from UChicago . <p> The General Assembly Hall at UN Headquarters in New York , September 22 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> He added : " The UN was created to prevent World War III between the great powers FULL STOP . It 's not going to avoid all conflicts , and it 's not going to prevent a great power from conducting war . It 's not going to stop a war in Ukraine just like it did n't stop the US from invading Iraq -- that 's not its point . Its purpose was to prevent Russia and the US from fighting each other and to prevent China and the US from fighting each other by creating a forum for diplomatic dialogue by ensuring there is communication between the major powers because one of the concerns going into WWII was that these forums for the dialogue in the League of Nations largely failed . <p> If that 's how you understand the UN , you can say it has been successful in that purpose , but it has not been able to achieve many other things that are typically assigned to it . " <h> Understanding the cycles of polarity <p> The cycles of structural change in the international system that the world experiences -- referring to recent history from a bipolar world to a unipolar one and now a world entering multipolarity , are these cycles recalibrations of the global order that somehow happen , or are these enforced upon the international order ? <p> Elaborating on the global political tectonic shifts , Dr Poast refers to Robert Gilpin 's book War and Change in International Politics , published in the early 1980s . <p> " Gilpin writes about the inevitable rise and fall of great powers . He calls it the law of uneven growth , which is that there is not a situation where everybody is going to grow and develop at the same time and in the same way ; instead , there will be some countries that will rise and become more powerful , and others are going to go through economic decline , " he said . <p> Gilpin , Dr Poast added , calls it the law of economic growth . " He writes that , as per our understanding of macroeconomic processes and economic development , we could go on about capital / higher returns and how that leads to differential rates of economic development . " <p> Palestinian children wait to receive food cooked by a charity kitchen amid shortages of food supplies , as the ongoing conflict between Israel and the Palestinian group Hamas continues , in Rafah , in the southern Gaza Strip , February 20 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> Dr Poast underscores the overall punchline of Gilpin 's book , stating that these ebbs and flows are inevitable . " If you find yourself in a unipolar world , you ca n't expect that to stay because , inevitably , other countries will grow . You are going to relatively decline to where you are going to enter into a new system that is going to be multipolar . " <p> He added that this does n't mean it is an even multipolarity ; it can still be an uneven multipolarity , but the question of having great powers is not that they 're all the same ; it 's just that they 're a group of countries that have crossed a certain threshold -- size , economic and military power that puts them in a position to shape world politics . <p> One of those countries , according to Dr Poast , might be bigger than the other ; they 're not all going to be the same size , but they 're all kind of in that same tier -- and the Gilpin argument seems to point out that it 's tough for one country just to be the only one in that tier . <p> " There are going to be countries that will gradually come in and out of that tier , and what we 're in right now is a system ; we 're in a state of time where we 're seeing a shift of countries going back into that tier in that leads to all the dynamics that we 've been talking about , " he said . <p> Mariam Khan is a freelance journalist and a UN volunteer . She tweets @mariaamkahn 
@@118985441 <h> Israeli officials travel to Doha to discuss a truce in Gaza and a hostage agreement : report <p> A source familiar with the negotiations tells AFP that Israeli officials arrived in Doha , Qatar yesterday for negotiations aimed at a ceasefire in Gaza and a hostage-prisoner swap between Israel and Hamas . <p> The source , who spoke on condition of anonymity due to the delicate nature of the discussions , stated , " An Israeli technical team is in Doha to discuss the ceasefire and hostage deal in Gaza . " <p> The insider stated , " This is between Israeli and Qatari working-level teams , " suggesting that the goal of the talks was to close the parties ' differences . <p> Although there was no indication that Barnea was present at the current discussions , the source said the meetings come after David Barnea , the head of Israel 's Mossad intelligence organization , traveled to Doha on Wednesday . <h> PKKH ( Pakistan Ka Khuda Hafiz ) is a respected Pakistani news website offering accurate and comprehensive coverage of politics , culture , and global affairs . With a commitment to objective reporting and insightful analysis , PKKH provides readers with a well-rounded perspective on current events . The platform encourages community engagement and leverages digital technology to reach a wide audience , contributing to informed discussions and awareness . 
@@118985451 <h> In a statement , Qatar-based Al Jazeera denounced the death of one of its journalists in an Israeli strike on Gaza yesterday , referring to the incident as a " targeted killing . " <p> Since Israel 's offensive in Gaza started more than 14 months ago , Ahmad Baker Al-Louh is the fifth journalist from Al Jazeera to be slain , according to AFP . <p> " The death of its cameraman , Ahmad Baker Al-Louh , 39 , at the hands of Israeli occupation forces is strongly condemned by Al Jazeera Media Network , " the broadcaster stated . <p> " A Civil Defense post in the market area of Al-Nuseirat Camp , central Gaza Strip , was the target of an airstrike that brutally killed him , " the statement continued . <p> Louh was a member of Islamic Jihad and " previously served as a platoon commander " for the organization , according to a statement from the Israeli military , which acknowledged that it had killed him . <p> Mahmud Bassal , the spokesman for Gaza 's civil defense agency , said that Louh had died in the attack on the Nuseirat camp , which also killed three people from Bassal 's rescue organization . A warplane had " targeted the Civil Defence site in Nuseirat camp , " Bassal told AFP . <h> PKKH ( Pakistan Ka Khuda Hafiz ) is a respected Pakistani news website offering accurate and comprehensive coverage of politics , culture , and global affairs . With a commitment to objective reporting and insightful analysis , PKKH provides readers with a well-rounded perspective on current events . The platform encourages community engagement and leverages digital technology to reach a wide audience , contributing to informed discussions and awareness . 
@@118985478 <h> Siddiqui rules out foreign influence on judicial matters <p> Leader of the Parliamentary Party of Pakistan Muslim League-N in the Senate and Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee , Senator Irfan Siddiqui on Monday emphasized that Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf must face court cases directly . <p> He dismissed reliance on external governments for the release of prisoners as futile , stating , " No external power will influence Pakistan 's internal judicial matters . " <p> Speaking to the media outside Parliament House , Senator Siddiqui commented on the possible priorities of US President-elect Donald Trump . He remarked , " We do not yet know how far the new US administration will interfere in other nations ' internal affairs . <p> However , I can say that there is a prisoner in Pakistan who played a significant role in aiding the United States in locating Osama Bin Laden . Despite numerous demands and persistent efforts from the US across successive governments , Pakistan has not handed over this prisoner . Therefore , I do not believe any country , including the US , will meddle in Pakistan 's internal affairs . " <p> Criticizing PTI 's approach , Senator Siddiqui stated , " PTI has consistently opted for propaganda , external lobbying , and social media campaigns rather than addressing matters within the framework of the Constitution , law , and courts . They have unnecessarily turned domestic issues into international controversies , tarnishing Pakistan 's global image . <p> He said their narrative absurdly claims that the situation in Pakistan is worse than Gaza and that greater atrocities are occurring here than in Indian-occupied Kashmir . " <p> He concluded , " These individuals neither respect their country nor uphold Pakistan 's dignity . The straightforward path for them is to face the legal process . If acquitted by the courts , so be it . However , their reliance on the intervention of a president , prime minister , Congress , or any foreign parliament to open jail doors is entirely misplaced and unrealistic . " 
@@119011199 <p> Palestinian film From Ground Zero is shortlisted for the International Feature Film at the 97th Oscars , the Academy revealed on Tuesday . <p> The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences announced shortlists -- the precursor to official nominations due on January 1 , 2025 -- in 10 categories . <p> From Ground Zero , an anthology directed by 22 different Palestinian directors , comprising documentaries , animation , fiction , and experimental films , details the lives of people in Gaza following Israel 's amplified aggression since October 7 , 2024 . <p> It premiered at the 5th Amman International Film Festival in July and had its North American premiere at the 49th Toronto International Film Festival in September . <p> " It offers an urgent , intimate glimpse into the human toll of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict , far beyond the scope of news bulletins . The victims and subjects of the genocide speak , each frame is an expression of raw emotion , creating a deeply personal narrative of survival , loss , and the fragility of existence under siege , " author Narendra Pachkh ? d ? wrote for Images . <p> In the running for best Documentary Feature Film is The Bibi Files , an American documentary directed by Alexis Bloom featuring leaked footage from the corruption trials of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . <p> Emilia P ? rez , starring Selena Gomez and Zoe Saldana received six nominations , including makeup , sound , original score , international feature , and two for original song ( ' El Ma ' and ' Mi Camino ' ) , Varietyreported . <p> The blockbuster musical Wicked , starring Ariana Grande and Cynthia Erivo , landed in four categories : makeup and hairstyling , sound , visual effects , and original score . <p> Pakistan 's official pick for the International Feature Film category , Usman Riaz 's animated film The Glassworker , was not shortlisted . <p> The award ceremony will air live from the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles on ABC on March 2 , 2025 , and Emmy-winning comedian Conan O'Brien will host . 
@@119011237 <p> More than 45,000 people have been killed in the besieged Gaza in the last 14 months , as humanitarians officials condemned Israel 's new deadly airstrikes across the besieged enclave , including on a UN school-turned-shelter , the UN reported Monday , quoting local authorities . <p> Images taken at the school in Khan Younis showed the impact point of one shell in a concrete upper floor where people had been living at the time of the attack late Sunday night . <p> According to the UN agency for Palestinian refugees , UNRWA , 13 people died and 48 were injured during the strike . There was no warning , said the victims . <p> " It 's been another very deadly night here in the Gaza Strip , we are waking up every single day to a new horror , " UNRWA Senior Emergency Officer , Louise Wateridge , told UN News , a media website . <p> " I have been to Nasser Hospital this morning . One of the children I spoke to her name was Mona , 17 years old ; she has very severe injuries to her leg -- she had very severe shrapnel wounds -- and she was in the hospital with her sister ... their mother was crushed to death under the rubble . " <p> Another victim , two-year old Julia , suffered severe head trauma and lost her sight in one eye ; her five-year-old brother also had a serious head injury . <p> Originally from Gaza City , the youngsters and their family " have been forcibly displaced seven or eight times , " Ms. Wateridge said . " They ended up in the UNRWA school , and they 've been there for the last seven months , and now this -- it just feels very hopeless . " <p> The development followed an update from the head of the UN Children 's Fund , UNICEF , that more than 14,500 youngsters have been reportedly killed in Gaza . Many thousands more are believed buried under the rubble . <p> Meanwhile , famine " continues to loom in the north " and humanitarian access remains " severely restricted " , said UNICEF Executive Director Catherine Russell , in a post on social media . <p> " Virtually all 1.1 million children in Gaza are in urgent need of protection and mental health support , " she added , amid media reports that Israeli military activity in the last 24 hours has left at least 69 Palestinians dead , from Beit Lahia in the north to Rafah in the south . <p> Echoing those concerns , the UN World Food Programme ( WFP ) warned that Gazans were now desperately worried about not getting enough to eat . In the absence of a ceasefire , " we need to find a way of getting all the food that we have outside Gaza in " , said WFP 's Head of Emergency Communications , Jonathan Dumont . <p> " The devastation is absolutely staggering , " he continued , in an online message from Gaza . <p> " There 's no electricity or running water or sewage ( treatment ) . Almost everyone has lost their home . A lot of people are living in tents . We have hot meals , distributions ... People come and they get really desperate . You can see it in their faces and you can see it in their eyes . To prevent famine we need to find a way to get a consistent flow of food in. " 
@@119011245 <h> Voice for Voiceless <p> To all those doubting the sincerity of pro-Palestine sentiments in Ireland , the recent diplomatic storm brewing in Dublin serves as a strong response . Despite facing backlash and threats , particularly given its financial reliance on overwhelming support from the US , Ireland has remained steadfast in its support , holding on to its moral compass even as tensions escalate . <p> In a world where political expediency often trumps morality , Ireland 's decision to support the genocide case against Israel at The Hague , and criticise the military offensive in Gaza stands as a commendable example for many Muslim countries whose leaders are still waiting for the right moment to heed their conscience . <p> Naturally , this criticism does not sit well with the Netanyahu administration , where even the most reasonable arguments are quickly branded as anti-Semitism . Between sanctions , diplomatic disputes and orchestrated assassination campaigns against dissenters , those who remind the international community of glaring injustices do not hesitate to act . Ergo , the closure of the Israeli embassy in Dublin is part of a familiar pattern . Because why bother with justifications for widely condemned civilian carnage when a booming message can be sent through bizarre distractions ? Critics in Ireland have pointed out how their air space is still being used to supply weapons to the Israeli soldiers , but the recognition of Palestinian statehood and a consistent increase in funding to the UN refugee agency are commendable steps , largely motivated by a shared history of oppression . Just as the Irish have experienced colonialism and struggle for independence , the Palestinians have endured decades of occupation , displacement , and injustice , inspiring the Irish people to stand in solidarity with their quest for freedom . <p> Ireland has truly emerged as a voice for the voiceless , even in the face of accusations of bias . Its stance has been clear -- it will not waver in its support for justice and dignity for all people , regardless of political repercussions . What remains to be seen is whether other countries will similarly challenge the status quo . Israel 's refusal to agree to a ceasefire , despite the urgent need for emergency supplies , should have been prioritised as an immediate global concern long before people grew weary of searching for scraps under the rubble in Gaza . * 
@@119011276 <h> PM Shehbaz lands in Egypt for D-8 summit <p> Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif on Wednesday began a three-day official visit to Egypt to participate in the Eleventh Summit of the Developing Eight ( D-8 ) countries , held under the theme , ' Investing in Youth and Supporting SMEs : Shaping Tomorrow 's Economy ' . <p> Representing Pakistan , the prime minister will underscore the significance of investing in youth and small and medium enterprises ( SMEs ) as a pathway to economic resilience . <p> He will reiterate Pakistan 's commitment to the D-8 's foundational principles and advocate for enhanced cooperation in agriculture , food security , and tourism to drive mutual growth among member states . <p> PM will also highlight initiatives taken by Pakistan for youth empowerment and economic development . " Investing in our youth is not just an opportunity ; it is a necessity for a sustainable future , " he is expected to convey . <p> A special meeting will address the ongoing humanitarian crisis in Gaza and Lebanon following Israeli aggression . The prime minister will reaffirm Pakistan 's unwavering support for peace in the Middle East and its long-standing position on the Palestinian cause . <p> In addition to addressing the summit , PM Shehbaz will hold bilateral talks with leaders from participating nations . Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Ishaq Dar , Information Minister Attaullah Tarar , and Special Assistant Tariq Fatemi are accompanying him on this visit . 
@@119011315 <h> How do you vote for child killers ? <p> The writer is a political analyst . Email : imran.jan@gmail.com Twitter @ImranJan <p> Listen to article <p> The American presidential election is over but it left behind a few things , which are perhaps larger than the election itself . Many people argue that the American voters rejected Kamala and the Democrats because they were deeply upset about the support for Israeli terrorism in Gaza . While that is true , I personally believe that the average American voter was driven more by his or her own circumstances . The credit card had gone above a trillion dollars . Interest rates were very high . Property taxes have been through the roof . Incomes were stagnant and inflation was unstoppable . It was becoming harder and harder for American families to live by . I am confident that Aristotle 's wisdom still holds , that all politics is local . <p> I was having a heated discussion with some American friends of mine who are white but they vote in favor of the Democrats though . They were making the case , similar to the argument made by Mehdi Hasan of Zeteo media , a loud mouth charlatan if you ask me . That despite the inflation , the war in Gaza , and the horrible track record on almost everything else , the American people should still vote for the Democrats because the other side , meaning Trump , is just so horrible . That argument , apart from being stinky , just was a stark reminiscent of the argument abusively exploited by every dictator in history , anywhere in the world . That democracy is not allowed because the result would be so bad for the people , therefore , the reluctant dictator has to stay in charge . Profanity is usually not allowed in any serious newspaper , otherwise , that is what I would be writing in response to such a sick argument . <p> I asked these friends a simple question : how do you justify voting for someone who killed children ? Their response first was that it was Biden who supported Israel not Kamala . I countered that Kamala was in the room when those decisions were made to arm Israel and knowingly kill innocent children of Gaza . This is when they threw the rotten argument that Trump was going to do even worse on Gaza . And this is also where it gets interesting . One , these people were going to vote for Biden also , had Kamala not happened . So , that thing about Kamala being clean was ridiculous and they knew it . Two , they are willing to judge Trump based on what he may or may not do in future , but refuse to judge the Democrats based on what they actually did . This must require a very alien-like discipline to just support one party no matter what they do . To them , the Democrats can never do anything bad and the Republicans are evil under all circumstances . <p> Then they threw the climate change bomb and said Trump does n't believe in it and calls it a hoax . Not that I was going to back down . I reminded them of what I always say about the Democrats and the Republicans . The Republicans tell you they are going to kill you and then they kill you . The Democrats smile and remind you how they are the decent and the good ones , and then they turn around and kill you . Take your pick . Trump calls climate change a hoax but Biden actually treated it as a hoax by almost begging the Saudis to drill for more oil , by vehemently supporting fracking , by paying lip service to the Paris climate agreement and doing absolutely nothing about it , and so forth . I asked my American friends a simple question again : what did Biden do for the climate ? They could n't tell me a single thing other than his speeches where he tried to sound like a science believing guy . <p> The truth is that most Democratic voters do not care when Palestinian children die at the hands of the Israeli terrorists . They do n't want to question why their money and name are being used by Israel in killing children of Gaza . Support for Israeli terrorism has hurt American national security before . It will do it again . It 's not an opinion . It 's math . 
@@119011357 <p> Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif embarked on a three-day official visit to Egypt on Wednesday to attend the Eleventh Summit of the Developing Eight ( D-8 ) countries being held in Cairo under the theme ' Investing in Youth and Supporting SMEs : Shaping Tomorrow 's Economy ' . <p> " At the Summit , the Prime Minister will underline the importance of investing in youth and SMEs for building a strong and inclusive economy ; creating jobs ; advancing innovation ; and promoting local entrepreneurship , " Foreign Office ( FO ) said in a statement . <p> He will express Pakistan 's strong commitment to the ideals of D-8 ; underscore the importance of fostering partnerships for mutual benefit and prosperity ; and promoting cooperation in agriculture , food security and tourism , added the statement . <p> The PM will underline Pakistan 's incentives for youth empowerment and financial development . <p> Moreover , PM Shehbaz will also attend the Special Session of D-8 on the Humanitarian Crisis and Reconstruction Challenges in Gaza and Lebanon to deliberate on the situation resulting from Israeli aggression in the Middle East . <p> " He will underline Pakistan 's principled position on the situation in Palestine and call for peace in the Middle East , " FO said . 
@@119011415 <p> UNITED NATIONS : The brother of an Israeli man held hostage in the Gaza Strip by Palestinian Hamas criticized the United Nations Security Council on Wednesday for inaction and urged it to " send a resonating message that terror will never prevail . " <p> Michael Levy 's brother Or was taken hostage and Or 's wife was killed when Hamas attacked Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 . Levy was the first person from a hostage family to brief the 15-member Security Council , which has met dozens of times on the war between Israel and Hamas in Gaza over the past 14 months . <p> " Your silence is deafening , your inaction is suffocating . For everyday this council fails to act , the message to the world is clear - that some lives are worth saving and others are not , " he said . " I refuse to accept a world where my brother 's life can be used as a bargaining chip and be forgotten . " <p> The Security Council has repeatedly demanded - in four resolutions - the immediate and unconditional release of hostages held by Hamas and other groups . But it has not condemned the group 's attack on Oct. 7 , 2023 . <p> Israel 's ally the United States vetoed a draft council resolution in October 2023 that would have condemned Hamas and urged Gaza aid access . The U.S. had argued it needed more time to broker humanitarian access and was disappointed the text did not mention Israel 's right to self-defense . <p> Levy 's remarks came as the United States , Egypt and Qatar sought on Wednesday to conclude a deal between Israel and Hamasto halt the war in Gaza . On Tuesday , sources close to the talks in Cairo said an agreement could be signed in coming days . <p> " We hope we can achieve a deal , " Israel 's U.N . Ambassador Danny Danon told reporters ahead of the Security Council meeting on Wednesday . " After many rejections by Hamas , we hope we will have some news before the holiday of Hanukkah and Christmas . " <p> " I want to say those mediators who are doing a lot trying to make it happen , but there is no guarantees , " he said . <p> The war in Gaza began after Hamas killed around 1,200 people in Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , and took about 250 hostages , according to Israeli tallies . Israel says about 100 hostages are still held , but it is not clear how many of those people are alive . <p> Since then , Israel 's military has leveled swaths of Gaza , driving nearly all of its 2.3 million people from their homes , giving rise to deadly hunger and disease and killing more than 45,000 people , according to Palestinian health authorities , who do not distinguish between combatants and noncombatants . <p> " Gaza has turned into a graveyard for the living , " Algeria 's U.N . Ambassador Amar Bendjama told the council on Wednesday . 
@@119011438 <h> Israeli attacks kill 38 more Gazans as death toll nears 45,100 <p> At least 38 more Palestinians were killed in Israeli attacks in the Gaza Strip , taking the overall death toll since last year to 45,097 , the Health Ministry in the enclave said on Wednesday . <p> A ministry statement added that some 107,244 others were injured in the ongoing assault . <p> " Israeli forces killed 38 people and injured 203 others in three massacres of families in the last 24 hours , " the ministry said . <p> " Many people are still trapped under the rubble and on the roads as rescuers are unable to reach them , " it added . <p> Israel has continued a genocidal war on the Gaza Strip since a Hamas attack on Oct. 7 last year despite a UN Security Council resolution calling for an immediate cease-fire . <p> The second year of genocide in Gaza has drawn growing international condemnation , with officials and institutions labeling the attacks and blocking of aid deliveries as a deliberate attempt to destroy a population . <p> Last month , the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant for war crimes and crimes against humanity in Gaza . 
@@119011453 <h> Gaza death toll surpasses 45,000 as Israel continues attacks <p> Gaza - As Israeli forces continue to carry out air and ground attacks in Gaza , authorities in the enclave say the death toll in the 14-month war has now surpassed 45,000 . <p> With Palestinians constantly ordered by the Israelis to move from one area of the Gaza Strip to another , even the designated humanitarian zones are not safe . The lack of aid access has had a devastating impact on the population , leaving Palestinians in the Gaza Strip lamented the bloodshed and loss of lives . Osama Lubbad , a displaced resident from Beit Lahiya , asks what Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu " want more from the blood of the Palestinian people " . " I mean 45,000 martyrs , in addition to the people who are still under the rubble . <p> Buried under rubble and their bodies decomposed . What does he want ? We tell the world this is enough . Enough with this genocide and enough with this war , " he said . Officials say at least 106,962 have been wounded since the start of the war . But the real death toll is likely to be much higher as thousands of bodies are still buried under rubble or in areas that medics can not access . <p> The Gaza health ministry does not distinguish between civilians and combatants in its count , but it has said that more than half of the fatalities are women and children . <p> Israel 's military says it has killed more than 17,000 militants , without providing evidence . It blames Hamas for civilian deaths saying the group operates from within civilian areas in the densely populated enclave . <p> The Israeli campaign began following a Hamas-led militant attack on southern Israel in October 2023 , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and abducting another 250 . <p> Around 100 hostages are still inside Gaza , at least a third of whom are believed to be dead . Most of the rest were released during a ceasefire last year . <p> The Israeli offensive has displaced nearly the entire population of Gaza and left much of the enclave in ruins , with families struggling to find food and shelter . 
@@119011456 <h> Legal experts in Spain call for arms embargo on Israel <p> A group of legal experts in Spain called on the government Tuesday to impose an arms embargo on Israel over its war in the Gaza Strip . <p> Jurists for Palestine , a non-governmental organization ( NGO ) comprising Spanish judges , prosecutors and lawyers submitted a petition with more than 1,200 signatures to parliament calling for sanctions , including an arms embargo . <p> Speaking outside parliament , Pilar Barrado , a judge and spokesperson for the NGO , said Israel 's genocide in Gaza and violations of international law have reached an intolerable level . <p> " Human rights are universal . There ca n't be a world of masters and slaves who are allowed to be massacred , " Barrado said . <p> He noted that according to Article 93 of the Spanish Constitution , the government and parliament are responsible for guaranteeing compliance with international treaties and their resolutions . <p> " We demand that the government and all parliamentary groups comply with these resolutions . It is essential to adopt measures such as the ( International Criminal Court 's ) arrest warrants against Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant , " he said . <p> " We ( also ) demand that the Spanish parliament pass resolutions that implement UN resolutions , provide guarantees for Palestinian refugees , sever diplomatic , commercial and military relations with Israel , and guarantee UN supervision to restore living conditions in Gaza . " <p> Representatives of the Sumar alliance , the junior partner of the minority left coalition government in Spain , as well as the Podemos party and the Republican Left of Catalonia ( ERC ) also supported the initiative . <p> Separately , the El Diario newspaper reported that Spain allowed a US ship carrying weapons to Israel to stop at the port of Rota . <p> The report was denied by government spokesperson Pilar Alegria , however . <p> Israel has continued a genocidal war on the Gaza Strip that has killed more than 45,000 people , mostly women and children , since Oct. 7 , 2023 . <p> Last month , the International Criminal Court issued arrest warrants for Netanyahu and Gallant for war crimes and crimes against humanity in Gaza . 
@@119011671 <p> Prime Minister Muhammad Shehbaz Sharif has arrived in Cairo on a three-day visit to Egypt . <p> Minister for Public Business Sector of Egypt , Mohamed Shimi along with senior Egyptian and officials of the Pakistan Embassy in Cairo received the Prime Minister upon arrival at the airport . <p> The Prime Minister will lead the Pakistan delegation at the 11th Summit of the Developing Eight ( D-8 ) countries . <p> The theme of the 11th D-8 Summit is " Investing in Youth and Supporting SMEs : Shaping Tomorrow 's Economy . " <p> At the Summit , the Prime Minister will underline the importance of investing in youth and SMEs for building a strong and inclusive economy ; creating jobs ; advancing innovation ; and promoting local entrepreneurship . <p> The Prime Minister will also attend the Special Session of D-8 on the Humanitarian Crisis and Reconstruction Challenges in Gaza and Lebanon to deliberate on the situation resulting from Israeli aggression in the Middle East . <p> On the sidelines of the Summit , the Prime Minister is expected to hold bilateral meetings with the participating leaders . 
@@119011673 <p> Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Senator Mohammad Ishaq Dar has expressed Pakistan 's deep concern on the continued escalation of violence in the Middle East . <p> He was addressing the meeting of 21st Council of the Foreign Ministers of D-8 Countries being held in Cairo , Egypt today . <p> He said the situation in Gaza has worsened with devastating loss of precious live and injuries to large number of innocent civilians . <p> The Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister called for an immediate and unconditional end to the hostilities in Gaza , Lebanon and Syria and for responding to the humanitarian situation in the Middle East . <p> He highlighted the potential for economic collaboration and trade within the D-8 economies , specifically in the areas of agriculture , food security and tourism . <p> He termed the signing of the Protocol on the D-8 PTA Dispute Settlement Mechanism as a key achievement for resolving trade disputes and promoting intra-regional trade . <p> The Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister underscored Pakistan 's commitment to working with other D-8 member states for collective prosperity and development . <p> He also expressed Pakistan 's support for Azerbaijan 's application for membership of the D-8. 
@@119011726 <p> Arslan Syed has worked in the mainstream media for over 8 years as a current affairs producer.His areas of interest include human rights , democracy , media freedom , journalistic principles and diplomacy . He can be reached at email protected <p> Despite democracy 's promises , journalism remains shackled by restrictions , facing relentless challenges in uncovering facts . Throughout history , brave journalists have paid the ultimate price for their pursuit of truth , with many meeting untimely deaths . From war-torn Gaza to Ukraine 's battlefields and the Middle East 's simmering conflicts , journalists are caught in the crossfire . <p> Since Al- Aqsa flood Operation , there have over 145 journalists been killed by the barbarian Israeli troops , with those 35 deaths of journalists that were killed in the line of duty . A staggering 550 journalists languish in prisons worldwide , marking a 7% surge from last year . This disturbing rise underscores how truth-fearing governments have become the deadliest menace to journalists , stifling free speech and accountability . Alarmingly , one third of the journalists were killed by the Israeli troops in the year 2024 , that speaks volume of the magnitude of crisis ; journalism has been confronted with ! <p> Journalism under Siege <p> Democracy and journalism are intertwined , but this relationship turns ominous when democracies perceive journalism as a threat . The major conflict zones -- Iraq , Sudan , Mynamar , Ukraine , and war affected region of Gaza has witnessed a five year high death toll of 57.4 per cent , with a record number of 54 journalists killed , and including those of 31that laid their lives in the conflict zones . <p> Protecting Journalism and the Journalists ... <p> The conflict zones in the world ( Iraq , Sudan , Myanmar , Ukraine and Gaza ) continue to claim the lives of the journalists . Gaza is the world 's most dangerous region for journalists , where around 30 per cent of journalists killed on the job by the Israeli forces . Since ' Al-Aqsa Flood Operation ' , the Palestine has become the most dangerous country for the journalists which have recorded a five-year high death toll of more than 145 journalists , including those of 35 that were targeted in the line of their duty ! It 's the Israeli troops that literally slaughtering the journalists in the Palestine region , which has been declared the world 's most dangerous country in the world for journalists in its latest report by the RSF . <p> And Pakistan has no exception , according to the report , Asia is the second most dangerous region for journalists , with Pakistan where seven journalists have been killed in the line of duty along with five journalists that killed during the protests that made possible the ouster of the former Bangladesh prime minister Sheikh Hasina Wajid . <p> If You Are Decent , Behind Bars you Go ! <p> The RSF reported that there are four world 's largest prisons for journalists -- china ( 124 ) , Mynamar ( 61 ) , Israel ( 41 ) and Belarus ( 40 ) , and these countries hold almost half of the detained journalists in the world . Remember , oppression is democracy 's greatest enemy , and the countries like china and Israel using imprisonment of journalists as a weapon to repress journalism . Disappearance of journalists is n't a new norm , with 100 journalists are still missing around the globe- 28 of them have been disappeared in the last decade . Mexico is the world 's number one country which has the most missing journalists which accounts for 30 per cent of the total missing journalists . When it comes to hostaging the journalists , it has been reported that 55 journalists are being as hostages across the globe , with Syria ( where the 50-year rule of Al Assad family has come to an end ) has 70 per cent of the hostages but after the Asaad regime falls , its hoped that efforts would be made possible to recover them from the cells . <p> Protecting Journalism in the digital age <p> Journalism must keep abreast with the ever-changing landscape of innovations led by the technologic advancements . The digital age has brought up many challenges for the journalism to thrive and survive in the 21st century because there 's a flood of misinformation and fake news hijacking the authenticity of news and fact-based news media outlets . The unprecedented growth of digital platforms has led the mainstream to succumb to the pressure of fake news because fake news travels faster than the real fact based news . And there 's also a need for the world press bodies to come together under one roof to develop a mechanism to not only safeguard the journalists but also to protect the journalism from the menace of fake news . <p> Who 's repressing Journalism and why ? <p> It 's often said that Journalism is n't a crime , but the recent data shows ( where 54 journalists lost their lives in 2024 ) , the world has not yet come to the point where Journalism can breathe freely without intimidation and repression . It 's a hard fact that the pursuit of truth is seen as a threat to those in power because it directly conflicts with their interests- making Journalism a perilous profession . So , protecting the truth is the responsibility of every citizen because it is the journalist that keeps the society informed . Journalists hold the powerful accountable , brings facts and uncover truths , but this crucial work often puts them in danger as repressive regimes ( like Israel ) and state authorities silence them through intimidation , imprisoning or killing them for crimes they did n't commit . Journalists safeguard truth ; we must safeguard them because truth is the ultimate power on earth ! <h> ABOUT US <p> ARY NEWS brings you 24/7 Live Streaming , Headlines , Bulletins , Talk Shows , Infotainment , and much more . Watch minute-by-minute updates of current affairs and happenings from Pakistan and all around the world ! 
@@119011738 <p> CAIRO : Prime Minister ( PM ) Shehbaz Sharif on Wednesday arrived here on an official visit to Egypt to lead the Pakistan delegation at the 11th Summit of the Developing Eight ( D-8 ) countries being held from 18-19 December . <p> Minister for Public Business Sector of the Arab Republic of Egypt Mohamed Shimi along with senior Egyptian and officials of the Pakistan embassy in Cairo received the prime minister upon arrival at the airport , PM Office Media Wing said in a press release . <p> The theme of the 11th D-8 Summit is " Investing in Youth and Supporting SMEs : Shaping Tomorrow 's Economy . " <p> At the summit , the prime minister will underline the importance of investing in youth and SMEs for building a strong and inclusive economy ; creating jobs ; advancing innovation ; and promoting local entrepreneurship . <p> " The Prime Minister will also attend the Special Session of D-8 on the Humanitarian Crisis and Reconstruction Challenges in Gaza and Lebanon to deliberate on the situation resulting from Israeli aggression in the Middle East . On the sidelines of the Summit , the Prime Minister is expected to hold bilateral meetings with the participating leaders , " it was further added . <p> Founded in 1997 in Istanbul , the D-8 Organization for Economic Cooperation , also known as Developing-8 , is an organisation for development co-operation among Bangladesh , Egypt , Indonesia , Iran , Malaysia , Nigeria , Pakistan , and Turkiye . <p> Its objective is to increase economic cooperation among Member States to boost economic growth , sustain development and promote and improve standards of living by focusing on bringing improvement and enhancing cooperation in agriculture , trade , transportation , industry , energy and tourism . <h> ABOUT US <p> ARY NEWS brings you 24/7 Live Streaming , Headlines , Bulletins , Talk Shows , Infotainment , and much more . Watch minute-by-minute updates of current affairs and happenings from Pakistan and all around the world ! 
@@119030349 <h> Families are killed in two Gaza homes by Israeli bombs , and tanks attack Mawasi . <h> According to Gaza doctors , massive Israeli airstrikes have murdered extended families in homes in two areas of the northern Gaza Strip . Israel 's military claims to have destroyed a Hamas weapons storage complex . <p> Residents in the southern part of the enclave told Reuters that Israeli tanks were advancing on a humanitarian area on the Mediterranean coast , forcing displaced families to flee once more . <p> According to medics , an attack on a house in the Gaza City district of Daraj destroyed the structure and damaged other homes nearby , confirming the deaths of at least ten persons . <p> Around morning , medics reported that at least 15 people were either dead or missing beneath the debris of a house struck by an airstrike in the town of Beit Lahiya , which has been under Israeli siege since early October . Rescuers could n't get to the scene to verify the number . <p> Residents in Rafah , which is close to the Egyptian border , reported that Israeli tanks advanced farther into the western Mawasi neighborhood , which Israel had earlier declared a humanitarian area . As a result , scores of families were forced to evacuate north toward Khan Younis . <p> Residents reported that hours later , the army set fire to multiple tents and detonated a number of nearby houses . <h> PKKH ( Pakistan Ka Khuda Hafiz ) is a respected Pakistani news website offering accurate and comprehensive coverage of politics , culture , and global affairs . With a commitment to objective reporting and insightful analysis , PKKH provides readers with a well-rounded perspective on current events . The platform encourages community engagement and leverages digital technology to reach a wide audience , contributing to informed discussions and awareness . 
@@119030350 <h> As officials strive for an agreement , peace talks in Gaza pick more steam . <h> Washington : According to sources briefed on the meeting on Tuesday , negotiations in Cairo are moving forward , and an agreement to end the 14-month-old war in Gaza and release inmates detained in the Palestinian enclave might be reached in the next few days . <p> In recent days , the US government has worked hard to move the negotiations along before President Biden steps down next month , with the help of mediators from Egypt and Qatar . <p> White House spokesperson John Kirby told Fox News , " We believe -- and the Israelis have said this -- that we 're getting closer , and without a doubt , we believe that , but we are cautious in our optimism . " <p> " We have previously been in this situation where we were unable to cross the finish line . " <p> According to the sources , a ceasefire agreement that would halt hostilities and exchange Palestinian inmates detained in Israeli prisons for those held by Hamas in Gaza might be reached in a matter of days . <p> In a statement , Hamas said that if Israel ceased imposing new requirements , a settlement might be reached . A Palestinian official involved in the mediation process stated the talks were serious and that every word was being discussed . <p> According to a statement from Netanyahu 's office , Netanyahu met with top military and security officials on Tuesday on Mount Hermon , a vital plateau just inside Syria . However , sources briefed on the meeting claimed that Netanyahu was en route to Cairo . <p> " The prime minister is not in Cairo , " his spokesperson wrote in a separate letter to Israeli media . <p> Netanyahu was not in Cairo " at this moment , " according to two Egyptian security officials , but a meeting was in progress to resolve the remaining issues , primary among them being a desire from Hamas for assurances that any quick agreement will result in a comprehensive one . According to the sources , Tuesday night might be crucial in determining the course of action . <h> PKKH ( Pakistan Ka Khuda Hafiz ) is a respected Pakistani news website offering accurate and comprehensive coverage of politics , culture , and global affairs . With a commitment to objective reporting and insightful analysis , PKKH provides readers with a well-rounded perspective on current events . The platform encourages community engagement and leverages digital technology to reach a wide audience , contributing to informed discussions and awareness . 
@@119054639 <p> Speaking at the 11th Summit of the Developing Eight ( D-8 ) countries in Cairo , Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif on Thursday stressed that investing in youth was " crucial " for Pakistan 's socioeconomic development and progress . <p> Founded in 1997 in Istanbul , the D-8 Organisation for Economic Cooperation , also known as Developing-8 , is an organisation for development cooperation among Egypt , Nigeria , Turkiye , Pakistan , Indonesia , Bangladesh , Iran , and Malaysia . <p> Its objective is to increase economic cooperation among member states to boost economic growth , sustain development and promote and improve standards of living by focusing on bringing improvement and enhancing cooperation in agriculture , trade , transportation , industry , energy , and tourism . <p> The theme of this year 's summit , held from December 18 to 19 , is " Investing in Youth and Supporting SMEs : Shaping Tomorrow 's Economy " . <p> Addressing the summit , PM Shehbaz said : " For Pakistan , investing in youth and supporting SMEs ( small and medium enterprises ) is crucial for our socioeconomic development and progress . <p> " With over 60 per cent of our population under the age of 30 , we possess a fountain of potential for innovation and growth , " he added . However , the premier noted , " unlocking this potential requires providing the right skills , opportunities , and financial resources " . <p> Noting that the theme of today 's summit pertained to investing in youth , PM Shehbaz emphasised it " served as a blueprint for collective prosperity in the 21st century " . He termed the youth and small and medium enterprises ( SMEs ) the " key drivers of economic development in any society " . <p> " Youth brings energy , fresh ideas , and creativity , whereas SMEs create jobs , foster innovation , and promote entrepreneurship . By investing in both , we can build inclusive and robust economies that are ready for the global challenges of today and tomorrow . " <p> During his address , the premier highlighted that the government PM 's Youth Programme had distributed " over 600,000 laptops to high achievers " . <p> " Today 's summit offers the D-8 countries a valuable opportunity to share best practices , pool resources and create programmes that support youth and small and medium enterprises across borders , " he said . <p> The prime minister also mentioned the government 's efforts to empower the IT sector , noting that Pakistan was home to " one of the largest freelance communities in the world " . <p> " We are focusing on IT trainings at a mass scale to equip our youth with the necessary tools to connect with the digital world and capitalise on the opportunities , with the aim to enable job-seekers to become job-creators , " he said . <p> " Connectivity is a force multiplier and is rightly hailed as a vehicle for peace and prosperity as emphasised in the Dhaka declaration earlier in 2021 , " the premier highlighted . <p> " We need to explore the possibilities of developing and enhancing transport connectivity among D-8 member states for building efficient intra-trade corridors and reliable supply chains , " he said , highlighting that the " Pakistan-Iran-Turkiye Corridor " was an excellent project . <p> At the outset of his speech , PM Shehbaz thanked Egypt 's President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi for a " very warm and generous welcome " given to him and his delegation . <p> Earlier today , the prime minister arrived at the Royal Palace of Egypt in Cairo to attend the summit , where he was received by President El-Sisi and recorded his impressions in the visitors ' book , state-run Radio Pakistan reported . <p> On the sidelines of the summit , the premier met with Professor Dr Muhammad Yunus , chief advisor of Bangladesh 's interim government , as well as Indonesian President Prabowo Subianto . <p> He is also expected to hold bilateral meetings with the presidents of Iran , Turkiye , and Egypt . <h> ' Global peace not possible without Gaza ceasefire ' <p> PM Shehbaz also took the opportunity to reiterate his call for a ceasefire in Gaza , where Israel 's 14-month-long offensive has killed more than 45,000 Palestinians , with many feared buried under the rubble . <p> The premier termed the D-8 a " very important platform for cooperation " between its members , stressing that the summit was taking place at a " very critical juncture " . <p> " Ceasefire in Gaza is so important that without that , peace , prosperity and progress not only in the region but globally , will not be possible , " the prime minister asserted . <p> Addressing the leaders present at the summit , he said : " It is equally important if not more , to discuss the situation in Gaza , the ceasefire in Lebanon and the potential threat of Israel 's carnage in this area and the world over . " <p> He appreciated President El-Sisi for allocating a separate session for the " burning issue " of crises in the Middle East . <p> At the summit , PM Shehbaz will also attend a special session of D-8 on ' Humanitarian Crisis and Reconstruction Challen ? ges in Gaza and Lebanon ' to deliberate on the situation resulting from Israeli aggression in the Middle East . <p> In an earlier summit in June , the alliance demanded full Palestinian membership of the United Nations and greater international pressure on Israel for a ceasefire in Gaza . <h> PM thanks Yunus for steps to boost travel , trade with Bangladesh <p> Separately , PM Shehbaz termed his meeting with Bangladesh 's Yunus a " very warm and cordial exchange " , with Radio Pakistan reporting various positive steps taken to facilitate trade and travel between the two countries . <p> " We discussed strengthening historical and cultural ties , increasing trade , and exploring cooperation in IT , chemicals , leather , surgical goods and other sectors , " the premier said in a post on X. <p> The two also " agreed to enhance people-to-people exchanges and align efforts for mutual development " . " We reaffirmed our commitment to deepen bilateral and multilateral collaboration for the shared prosperity of our peoples , " the prime minister added . <p> PM Shehbaz also expressed his gratitude to Bangladesh for the recent steps taken for the facilitation of trade and travel between the two South Asian nations , Radio Pakistan said . <p> It added that the steps included waiving off the condition of 100 per cent physical inspection of consignments from Pakistan and abolishment of a special security desk at the Dhaka airport established earlier to scrutinise Pakistani passengers . <p> The prime minister also thanked Bangladesh for doing away with an additional clearance requirement for Pakistani visa applicants . <p> According to Radio Pakistan , the two leaders acknowledged the importance of people-to-people contacts and cultural exchanges , including of artists , sportspersons , academics , and students . <p> It added that they " noted with satisfaction " the recent visit by the Bangladesh Cricket Team to Pakistan as well as the concert of music band Jal in Dhaka . <p> Meanwhile , in his meeting with President Subianto , PM Shehbaz termed Indonesia as a reliable trade partner of Pakistan , particularly as a palm oil supplier , Radio Pakistan reported . 
@@119054668 <p> A Palestinian child carries a water container , as Palestinians wait to collect water following a Human Rights Watch report that says Israel 's deprivation of water in Gaza is an act of genocide in Khan Younis in the southern Gaza Strip December 19. -- AFP <p> Human Rights Watch ( HRW ) on Thursday said Israel was committing " acts of genocide " in the Gaza Strip by damaging water infrastructure and cutting off supplies to civilians , calling on the international community to impose targeted sanctions . <p> In a new report , which focused specifically on water , the New York-based rights group detailed what it said were deliberate efforts by Israeli authorities " of a systematic nature " to deprive Palestinians in Gaza of water , which had " likely caused thousands of deaths ... and will likely continue to cause deaths " . <p> " Since October 2023 , Israeli authorities have deliberately obstructed Palestinians ' access to the adequate amount of water required for survival in the Gaza Strip , " the report said . <p> Israel on Thursday said the report by Human Rights Watch accusing it of committing " acts of genocide " in the Gaza Strip by restricting access to water for civilians was " full of lies " . <p> The HRW report detailed what the group said was the intentional damaging of water and sanitation infrastructure , including solar panels powering treatment plants , a reservoir and a spare parts warehouse , as well as the blocking of fuel for generators . <p> The report concluded that in doing so , " Israeli authorities intentionally inflicted on the Palestinian population in Gaza ' conditions of life calculated to bring about its physical destruction in whole or in part . ' <p> " This , it said , amounted to the war crime of " extermination " and to " acts of genocide " . <p> Speaking to Dawn.com on the report , HRW Senior Counsel Asia Division Saroop Ijaz said , " This is extermination , a crime against humanity , and an act of genocide . " <p> He said that Israeli authorities did n't just cut off water for Palestinians in Gaza . They also destroyed water infrastructure , targeted water workers , and blocked water aid . <p> " This very deliberate pattern of conduct is ' calculated ( for ) physical destruction ' . That makes it an act of genocide . " <p> He also added , " governments arming Israel and undermining accountability efforts risk complicity in Israel 's atrocities in Gaza -- Countries have a legal and moral responsibility to prevent genocide against Palestinians by arms embargo , targeted sanctions and support for justice . " <p> Human Rights Watch is the second major rights group in a month to use the word genocide to describe the actions of Israel in Gaza after Amnesty International issued a report that concluded Israel was committing genocide . <p> A report from Doctors Without Borders ( MSF ) released today has also found " clear signs of ethnic cleansing " in Gaza by Israeli attacks <p> However , HRW stopped short of saying Israel was committing outright " genocide " . <p> Under international law , proving genocide requires evidence of specific intent , which experts say is very difficult . <p> HRW said that , " The pattern of conduct set out in this report together with statements suggesting some Israeli officials wished to destroy the Palestinians in Gaza may indicate such intent . " <p> Speaking at a briefing on the report , Lama Faqih , director of HRW 's Middle East and North Africa division , said that in the absence of " a clear articulated plan " to commit genocide , the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) might find that the evidence meets the " very strict threshold " of reasonable inference of genocidal intent . <p> HRW pointed to a statement by then-defence minister Yoav Gallant in October 2023 , when he declared a " complete siege " and said : " No electricity , no food , no water , no gas -- it 's all closed . " <p> Israel is facing a case brought by South Africa at the ICJ last December , arguing that Israel 's invasion of Gaza breached the 1948 United Nations Genocide Convention , an accusation Israel has strongly denied . <p> Israel denies intentional destruction of the population in Gaza , saying that it facilitates aid to the besieged territory . <h> ' Malnourished and dehydrated ' <p> The HRW report , drawn up over nearly a year , is based on interviews with dozens of Palestinians in Gaza , staff at water and sanitation facilities , medics and aid workers , as well as satellite imagery , photographs , videos and data analysis . <p> It said Israeli authorities did not reply to requests for information . <p> The lack of water left Palestinians in Gaza vulnerable to water-borne diseases and complications , such as infected wounds and the inability to heal due to dehydration , HRW said . 
@@119054688 <h> Israel on Rampage <p> With the plunge of Syria , Libya , Yemen , Lebanon in chaos , and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and the Shia rule in Iraq facing imminent threat of de-stabilization while Gaza is being reduced to rubble by the relentless Israel , the Arab states are individually engaged in a desperate exercise for survival . <p> I feel a strong repulsion to see the ever shrinking role of the OIC in the Muslim world and the Arab League and the GCC in the Arab affairs . All these organizations have been rendered redundant at the global and the regional levels by the mutually harmful Arab hostilities and the ever deepening vulnerability of the wealthy Arab states to the machinations of the global power politics . <p> Being bogged down in endless conspiracies to undermine each other , triggering coups , civil strife , sectarian proxy wars and bloody conflicts in their region and beyond , they are forced to outsource the security of their thrones and oil wealth to the globally and regionally powerful states which , to a large extent , control their foreign and strategic policies too . Nations shackled by fear , insecurity and over-indulgence in luxurious living cease to create men of dazzle and courage destined to change their direction . The Muslim world is muddling through such a barren phase of history . <p> Nations shackled by fear , insecurity and over-indulgenc cease to create men of dazzle and courage . <p> Over a century or so , the Arabs have been living with foreign support from the Ottoman Caliphates to T.E Lawrence and the British and French Protectorate . The nascent kingdom of Saudi Arabia struck an alliance with the USA in 1945 conceding the American control over their oil exploration and trade . In tandem with the US policy , the Saudi monarchs were at loggerhead with the Arab nationalist and radical states . The Middle East remained divided into so called moderate and radical states . This division remained intact until Egypt veered to the Western stables after the Camp David Accords , and Iraq , Libya and Syria were reduced to the pale shadows of their erstwhile political stability and power fuelling the sectarian rivalries . <p> The most suffering country in the Arab world has been the impoverished Yemen ever subjected to the mutually disastrous Arab intrigues since decades . In the 1960s , the civil strife supported by Saudis and the radical states divided it into two states -- the nationalist South Yemen and the monarchist North Yemen . The country reunited just a few decades ago with Ali Abdullah Saleh , an anathema to the Saudi monarchs , at the helm of affairs . The wave of public protests in the Arab world in so called Arab Spring also overwhelmed Yemen largely fuelled by Arab monarchs to get rid of President Saleh and to bring in power Abdu Rab Al-Mansoor , the Vice President and a favorite of the Saudis . <p> President Al-Mansoor , challenged by the rebellion of Shia population , particularly Houthis living a subdued and deprived life in both Yemen and Saudi Arabia , could not hold onto the slippery pole of power and had to flee to Riyadh where he has been staying since past many years . The rest -- the formation of a coalition force of many Arab countries to thwart the takeover of the country by the Houthis -- is too recent to warrant any elaboration . However , the war in Yemen has exposed many foreign and security policy weaknesses of the Arab countries . <p> The Arab Spring would have culminated into functional democracies in some Arab countries like in Tunisia had the US-led Western states resisted the machinations of the wealthy Arab states to settle their old scores in Iraq , Libya and Syria . <p> They were also complicit in the military coup d ? tat against the elected President Muhammad Morsi in Egypt giving a carte blanche to the new Egyptian military leader for a crackdown against the Ikhwan-ul-Muslimin . The Ikhwans are spread over almost all the Arab countries including Turkey . All Arab states from Egypt , Saudi Arabia , UAE and Bahrain to Turkey are over-obsessed with the fear of Ikhwans . The Ikhwans reflect the deep division of the Arab societies into secular and liberals and ideologically motivated Islamists . <p> The wealthy Arab countries were apprehensive about the ambivalent Middle East policy of President Barak Obama in his second term . The rhetoric of the candidate Donald Trump at his election trail blowing hot and cold about the intractability of the Middle Eastern conundrum and his threats to pull out of the messy region only added to the Arabs ' fear forcing them to look for other reliably powerful states for strategic partnership . <p> We may recall the French President Fran ? ois Hollande and the British Prime Minister Theresa May were particularly invited to the GCC Summits before the US presidential elections . Prime Minister May went out of her way to reassure the Summit for help to push Iran away from the Middle East or curtail its hegemonic ambitions . <p> Faced with the escalating civil war in Yemen , they explored the possibility of Pakistan making military contributions for crushing the rebellious Houthis in 2015 . The year had also witnessed the conclusion of the comprehensive nuclear deal between the US and Iran exacerbating the fear of Israel and the Arab countries . We maintained our long-held neutrality in intra-Arab conflicts . The Arab brothers vented their anger by according a red carpet welcome to Narendra Modi at the heel of the visit of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif and his Army Chief , General Raheel Sharif . The Foreign Minister of UAE had also issued a veiled threat to Pakistan for its defiance of their ' command ' . <p> They had taken Pakistan for granted for strategic help after its willing contributions to the security of Saudi Arabia in 1979 and the deployment of over 20,000 soldiers on Saudi borders in the 1990s . However , we assured the Saudis that Pakistan would be ever willing to help defend the security of Saudi Arabia . Later , they played an important role to get Pakistani retired soldiers employed by Bahrain in the thick of the Shia uprising in that country . They made it a point to ensure that the soldiers were Sunnis . This was not lost on Iran which was being contained by the Arab states . <p> ( To be concluded ) <p> The author was a member of the Foreign Service of Pakistan and he has authored two books . 
@@119054694 <h> PM in Cairo for D-8 Summit , Gaza talks <p> Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif arrived in Cairo on Wednesday on an official visit to Egypt to lead the Pakistan delegation at the 11th Summit of the Developing Eight ( D-8 ) countries being held in Cairo from 18-19 December . Minister for Public Business Sector of the Arab Republic of Egypt H.E . Mr. Mohamed Shimi along with senior Egyptian and officials of the Pakistan Embassy in Cairo received the Prime Minister upon arrival at the airport . The theme of the 11th D-8 Summit is " Investing in Youth and Supporting SMEs : Shaping Tomorrow 's Economy . " At the Summit , the Prime Minister will underline the importance of investing in youth and SMEs for building a strong and inclusive economy ; creating jobs ; advancing innovation ; and promoting local entrepreneurship . The Prime Minister will also attend the Special Session of D-8 on the Humanitarian Crisis and Reconstruction Challenges in Gaza and Lebanon to deliberate on the situation resulting from Israeli aggression in the Middle East . On the sidelines of the Summit , the Prime Minister is expected to hold bilateral meetings with the participating leaders . Pakistan delegation includes Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Muhammad Ishaq Dar and Federal Minister for Information &amp; Broadcasting Ataullah Tarar. 
@@119054698 <h> Gaza rescuers say Israeli strikes kill at least 12 Palestinians <p> Gaza 's civil defence agency said Israeli strikes Monday across the territory killed at least 12 people , the majority displaced Palestinians taking shelter in a house in the north . More than 14 months into the Israel-Hamas war , the violence raged on even as the United States expressed " cautious optimism " about the prospects of reaching a ceasefire in Gaza . Civil defence spokesman Mahmud Bassal told AFP that 10 Palestinians were killed when an Israeli strike at dawn hit a house in northern Gaza 's Beit Lahia , where several displaced families had sought refuge . Later on Wednesday , the director of Kamal Adwan hospital in Beit Lahia said that " gunfire and tank shells " caused a fire in the intensive care unit , with some patients suffering burns . Hospital director Hossam Abu Safia told AFP that staff had to quickly move all patients out of the intensive care unit . The Israeli military said it was looking into the incident . 
@@119054714 <h> PM Shehbaz urges D-8 countries to empower youth and support SMEs <p> Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif has stressed that investing in youth is vital for building inclusive and robust economies capable of addressing both current and future global challenges . <p> Speaking at the D-8 Summit in Cairo on Thursday , PM Shehbaz highlighted the importance of youth and small and medium enterprises ( SMEs ) in driving economic development . He noted that youth contribute energy , fresh ideas , and creativity , while SMEs are crucial for job creation , innovation , and entrepreneurship . <p> The Prime Minister urged D-8 member states to prioritise youth empowerment and entrepreneurship , creating environments where small businesses can thrive . <p> He pointed out that Pakistan , with over 60% of its population under the age of 30 , has vast potential for innovation and growth . However , unlocking this potential requires providing the right skills , opportunities , and financial resources . <p> He also highlighted Pakistan 's commitment to fostering socio-economic development through its flagship youth programme , which focuses on education , job creation , and empowering young people to become job creators . <p> He mentioned that Pakistan is home to one of the largest freelance communities globally and is investing heavily in IT training to equip its youth with the necessary skills to engage with the digital economy . <p> The Prime Minister also underscored the importance of improving transport connectivity among D-8 member states to build efficient trade corridors and reliable supply chains . <p> Addressing the ongoing situation in Palestine and the Middle East , PM Shehbaz reiterated that a ceasefire in Gaza is critical for regional and global peace and prosperity . <p> Additionally , he welcomed Azerbaijan as a new member of the D-8 organisation , strengthening the group 's potential for economic cooperation . <p> Pakistan , Indonesia pledge to bolster cooperation <p> Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif met Indonesia 's President Joko Widodo in Cairo on the sidelines of the D-8 Summit , discussing ways to enhance bilateral relations , especially in economic and trade sectors . <p> During the meeting , Prime Minister Sharif congratulated President Widodo on his recent inauguration . Both leaders expressed a commitment to strengthening their countries ' relations , focusing on political , economic , and trade cooperation . <p> PM Shehbaz emphasised Indonesia 's role as a reliable trade partner for Pakistan , particularly highlighting the crucial import of palm oil from Indonesia to meet Pakistan 's edible oil needs . Both leaders agreed on the importance of maintaining close communication to deepen bilateral ties . <p> The Prime Minister also expressed Pakistan 's keen interest in furthering its relations with ASEAN and thanked Indonesia for its support in Pakistan 's bid for Sectoral Partner status in ASEAN . PM Shehbaz expressed hopes that , with Indonesia 's support , Pakistan could soon become a full Dialogue Partner of ASEAN . <p> In addition to bilateral matters , the two leaders reaffirmed their unwavering support for Palestine , advocating for a ceasefire in Gaza and a comprehensive approach to resolving the Palestinian issue . They reiterated their commitment to the creation of an independent Palestinian state based on pre-1967 borders , with East Jerusalem as its capital . <p> Prime Minister Sharif extended an invitation to President Widodo to visit Pakistan , which was accepted . <p> At the summit , the premier will highlight the importance of investing in youth and small and medium enterprises ( SMEs ) for a strong and inclusive economy based on employment generation , innovation and promoting local entrepreneurship , according to a PM Office press release . <p> He will demonstrate Pakistan 's strong commitment to cooperate and implement the fundamental principles laid down by the D-8 besides emphasizing the importance of partnerships for mutual benefit and development among the participating countries , as well as cooperation in agriculture , food security and tourism . <p> The prime minister will highlight the steps taken by the Government of Pakistan for the empowerment of youth and their economic development . <p> He is also scheduled to attend the special session of D-8 on the Humanitarian Crisis and Reconstruction Challenges in Gaza and Lebanon to deliberate on the situation resulting from Israeli aggression in the Middle East . <p> He will underline Pakistan 's principled position on the situation in Palestine and call for peace in the Middle East . <p> Prime Minister Shehbaz will also hold bilateral meetings with the heads of various countries who have come to attend the summit in Cairo . <p> Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Ishaq Dar , Federal Minister for Information and Broadcasting Attaullah Tarar and Special Assistant Tariq Fatemi will attend the conference along with the prime minister . 
@@119054719 <h> Enough is enough , world must listen to voices of Gaza : PM Shehbaz <p> Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif has called on the international community to listen to the suffering and cries of the people of Gaza . <p> Speaking at a special session on the situation in Palestine and Lebanon at the D-8 Summit , the Prime Minister expressed his gratitude to Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi for convening the timely meeting on Gaza and Lebanon during the summit . <p> PM condemned Israel 's relentless actions , which , after wreaking havoc in Gaza , have now spread to the West Bank , warning that this could ignite a broader regional conflict . <p> He described the ongoing violence in Gaza since October 2023 as one of the darkest chapters in recent history , calling it a catastrophic humanitarian crisis of unimaginable proportions . Pakistan has consistently denounced Israel 's aggression in Gaza , the West Bank , Lebanon , and Syria , he added . <p> He also condemned Israel 's actions against the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees ( UNRWA ) , describing the agency as a lifeline for millions of vulnerable Palestinians affected by Israeli actions in Gaza and the West Bank . <p> PM Shehbaz reiterated Pakistan 's long-standing support for a just and lasting solution to the Middle East conflict based on international law and relevant UN Security Council and OIC resolutions . <p> He emphasised the need for a viable , sovereign Palestinian state with East Jerusalem as its capital , based on pre-1967 borders . <p> He also urged for international efforts to secure a ceasefire and support the reconstruction of Gaza , the West Bank , Lebanon , and other war-torn regions , which have been devastated by Israeli airstrikes . <p> Pakistan is among the countries that have sent aid to Palestine through Egypt and Jordan , and Sharif called for continued humanitarian assistance to ensure the survival of millions of war-affected civilians . " I urge the world to listen to the innocent people of Gaza , " the PM concluded . 
@@119054751 <h> Gaza 's ethnic cleansing <p> Israel is systemically carrying out ethnic cleansing in Gaza . A report from Doctors Without Borders ( MSF ) has found " clear signs of ethnic cleansing " in the besieged Palestinian enclave . The organisation further stated that they have observed " clear signs ... as Palestinian life is being wiped off " in the region . MSF 's findings come as no surprise to those who have witnessed the relentless bombardment , displacement , and systematic destruction of entire neighbourhoods in Gaza . The report documents the obliteration of homes , the killing of civilians and the destruction of vital infrastructure , leaving Palestinians with little to no access to healthcare , clean water and other basic necessities . MSF 's teams in Gaza have repeatedly raised alarm about the growing humanitarian crisis , pointing to widespread violations of international law and calls for accountability for the suffering caused . <p> The scale of the barbarity carried out by Israeli forces is hard to overstate . Airstrikes , shelling and blockades have trapped civilians in a hellish situation , exacerbating the trauma of years of occupation . The destruction of hospitals and medical facilities has crippled Gaza 's ability to care for its wounded and sick , while the international community 's response remains tepid at best . The Serbians did something similar , but on a much smaller scale , during the Bosnian War of the 90s . Back then , nations led by the self-proclaimed global policeman - the United States - acted per international human rights law and conducted a military intervention to stop the Serbs . However , the same countries have now turned a blind eye to Israeli atrocities . The hypocrisy could not be more blatant . It is imperative that the world demand an end to these atrocities and a commitment to finding a just and lasting peace . The plight of Palestinians in Gaza is a humanitarian crisis of unprecedented scale , and it requires urgent global attention and intervention . 
@@119054754 <h> Growing nuclear brinkmanship <p> The writer is an academic and researcher . He is also the author of Development , Poverty , and Power in Pakistan , available from Routledge <p> Listen to article <p> The Nobel Peace Prize has often been given to people whose record as peace makers is contested . In recent years , President Obama was given this award for his efforts to promote international cooperation and peace , even though it was under his presidency that the US decided on a troop surge in Afghanistan and ramped up use of drone strikes , despite the collateral damage drones cause to innocent civilians . Giving the Nobel for peace ( not economics ) to Muhammad Yunus for his advocacy of micro-lending was also puzzling , especially as the correlation between poor women accessing loans and becoming socially empowered is not assured . However , the Nobel committee 's decision to award the Nobel Peace Prize for 2024 to Nihon Hidankyo , an organisation comprised of Hiroshima and Nagasaki nuclear attack survivors , which now campaigns against nuclear weapons , is noteworthy . <p> We live in a world where the risk of nuclear use - either deliberate , by accident , or due to miscalculation - has grown significantly . Russia has revised its nuclear doctrine to use nuclear weapons not only in response to a nuclear attack , but also to push back against a conventional attack deemed a " critical threat " to Russia 's sovereignty , or that of its allied state , Belarus . This revision of the Russian nuclear posture is meant to counter growing western support to Ukraine , but it does create a danger of an escalating nuclear conflict . North Korea has upped its nuclear capabilities over these past few years as well . The far right in Israel has threatened using the nuclear option during the ongoing assault on Gaza . Beleaguered Iran , which has seen a significant degradation of its proxies in the region , may also ramp up efforts to become a nuclear power , especially if the Israeli threat to it grows under the coming Trump administration . <p> In the case of South Asia , the threat of a nuclear showdown is also linked to the ongoing great power tussle which is intensifying lingering regional rivalries . China and India had two major skirmishes over contested border demarcations in the Himalayas in 2020 and 2022 . While the two neighbouring Asian giants have sought to normalise the situation along their contested border for now , their acrimony is only intensifying due to America 's support to India for containing China . Yet , US efforts to bolster Indian capabilities have inflamed insecurities of Pakistan , which struggles to maintain deterrence against its hostile larger neighbour . <p> Scholars , writing for the Brookings Institute , warned of a strategic chain reaction triggering an arms buildup in South Asia . This chain reaction compels Pakistan to maintain a nuclear deterrent against India . Increasingly , however , India needs to respond not to Pakistan but also to China . China meanwhile is upping its nuclear capabilities with an eye on the Indian posture , and to keep the US at bay . <p> The risk tolerance between nuclear-armed India and Pakistan has also increased because the US and China are less likely to work together to prevent their cross-border tensions from spiraling into a catastrophic conflict . A full-blown nuclear conflict in South Asia could not only cause devastation across the wider region , its environmental impact would spell disaster for the rest of the world . <p> One hopes that awarding the Nobel Peace Prize to a movement against nuclear proliferation also nudges the international arms control regime to do more to contend with the growing risks of nuclear conflict , especially by dissuading great powers from engaging in direct as well as indirect nuclear brinkmanship. 
@@119054760 <p> The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences revealed its shortlists for the 97th Academy Awards on Tuesday , with From Ground Zero being shortlisted in the International Feature Film category . <p> This is a significant moment for Palestinian cinema as the anthology , directed by 22 Palestinian filmmakers , reflects on the lives of people in Gaza amid Israel 's intensified aggression since October 7 , 2024 . <p> Featuring a blend of documentaries , animation , fiction , and experimental films , the project offers a raw and urgent portrayal of survival , loss , and resilience in the face of tragedy . <p> Premiering at the 5th Amman International Film Festival in July , From Ground Zero went on to have its North American debut at the 49th Toronto International Film Festival in September . <p> According to author Narendra Pachkh ? d ? , the film " offers an urgent , intimate glimpse into the human toll of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict , far beyond the scope of news bulletins . " Each frame captures the anguish and hope of those affected , weaving together a deeply personal narrative that speaks to the fragility of life under siege . <p> In the running for Best Documentary Feature Film is The Bibi Files , an American documentary by Alexis Bloom that features leaked footage from Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's corruption trials . <p> Meanwhile , Emilia P ? rez , a film starring Selena Gomez and Zoe Saldana , earned six nominations , including recognition for makeup , sound , original score , international feature , and two original songs : " El Ma " and " Mi Camino . " Additionally , Wicked , the highly anticipated musical starring Ariana Grande and Cynthia Erivo , received four nominations across makeup , sound , visual effects , and original score . <p> Why Not Productions <p> Pakistan 's official submission for the International Feature Film category , The Glassworker -- an animated film by Usman Riaz -- was not shortlisted for nomination . <p> The Oscars will be held live from the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles on March 2 , 2025 , with Emmy-winning comedian Conan O'Brien set to host . <p> COMMENTS <p> Replying to X <p> Saved ! Your comment will be displayed after the approval . <p> Error ! <p> Denied ! You can post your comment in 10 minutes . <p> Error ! Invalid Email . <p> Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive. 
@@119054786 <p> CAIRO : Prime Minister Muhammad Shehbaz Sharif on Thursday tabled strong condemnation of Israel 's ongoing military actions in Gaza , Lebanon , the West Bank , and Syria , urging the international community to take decisive steps towards ending the violence and ensuring justice for the unabated conflict-affected populations . <p> The prime minister made the call during a special session at the 11th D-8 Summit in Cairo , convened by Egyptian President Abdel Fattah Al-Sisi . <p> In his address , the prime minister emphasized the grave humanitarian crisis unfolding in Gaza , describing it as " one of the darkest chapters of modern history . " <p> He condemned Israel 's actions , labelling them as blatant violations of international law , United Nations resolutions , and directives from the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) . <p> " History will bear witness to these pages tainted in the blood of innocents , " he stated , underscoring the global responsibility to address the atrocities . <p> The prime minister also expressed strong support for the United Nations Relief and Works Agency ( UNRWA ) , which has been providing vital aid to Palestinian civilians amidst the chaos . <p> He condemned Israel 's attempts to demonize the organization , recognizing it as the only lifeline for millions of displaced and suffering people in Gaza and the West Bank . <p> " As the violence continues to spread , threatening to destabilize the wider region , Pakistan 's stance remains firm on the need for a just and lasting solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . A viable , sovereign , and contiguous State of Palestine based on pre-1967 borders , with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital , is the only path to enduring peace , " said PM Shehbaz . <p> He reiterated Pakistan 's unwavering support for all international mediation efforts aimed at achieving a ceasefire . He said , " We deeply appreciate the efforts of the State of Qatar and Egypt in this regard . " <p> PM Shehbaz Sharif highlighted the urgent need for humanitarian relief , with a focus on rebuilding the devastated regions . <p> " Pakistan , alongside other nations , has already sent essential relief goods to Palestine , entering through Egypt and Jordan . However , such efforts must be sustained to support the ongoing needs of millions of displaced families , particularly vulnerable women and children , who face extreme hardship during the harsh winter months , " he said . <p> The prime minister called on the global community to unite in the face of these atrocities , stressing , " the echoes and shrills of the innocent people of Gaza demand collective action to end the cycle of violence and liberation from what is called Israel 's barbaric military and political dominance . " <p> The prime minister urged all nations to listen to the cries of the innocent thousands of orphans , widows , hapless and destitute children who have lost their limbs , family members and loved ones and act swiftly to bring an end to this " prolonged historic catastrophe . " The world , he insisted , must respond now , for the future of Gaza , Lebanon , and the broader Middle East hangs in the balance . 
@@119054845 <p> CAIRO : The leaders of Turkiye and Iran were in Egypt on Thursday for a summit of eight Muslim-majority countries , meeting for the first time since the ouster of Syria 's president Bashar al-Assad . <p> Turkey historically backed the opposition to Assad , while Iran supported his rule . <p> The gathering of the D-8 Organisation for Economic Cooperation , also known as the Developing-8 , was being held against a backdrop of regional turmoil including the conflict in Gaza , a fragile ceasefire in Lebanon and unrest in Syria . <p> In a speech to the summit , Turkey 's Recep Tayyip Erdogan called for unity and reconciliation in Syria , urging " the restoration of Syria 's territorial integrity and unity " . <p> He also voiced hope for " the establishment of a Syria free of terrorism " , where " all religious sects and ethnic groups live side by side in peace " . <p> Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian urged action to address the crises in Gaza , Lebanon and Syria , saying that it is a " religious , legal and human duty to prevent further harm " to those suffering in these conflict zones . <p> Pezeshkian , who arrived in Cairo on Wednesday , is the first Iranian president to visit Egypt since Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , who visited in 2013 . <p> Relations between Egypt and Iran have been strained for decades , but diplomatic contacts have intensified since Cairo became a mediator in the war in Gaza . <p> Foreign Minister Abbas Aragchi visited Egypt in October , while his Egyptian counterpart Badr Abdelatty travelled to Tehran in July to attend Pezeshkian 's inauguration . <p> Ahead of the summit , the Iranian top diplomat said he hoped it would " send a strong message to the world that the Israeli aggressions and violations in Gaza , Lebanon and Syria " would end " immediately " . <p> Erdogan was in Egypt earlier this year , and discussed with President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi economic cooperation as well as regional conflicts . <p> Established in 1997 , the D-8 aims to foster cooperation among member states , spanning regions from Southeast Asia to Africa . <p> The organisation includes Egypt , Turkey , Iran , Nigeria , Pakistan , Bangladesh , Indonesia and Malaysia as member states . 
@@119054871 <h> German arms exports hit record $13.7B in 2024 <p> Germany 's arms exports in 2024 have shattered all previous records , reaching an unprecedented ? 13.2 billion ( $13.7 billion ) , according to official figures released late Wednesday . <p> The Federal Ministry of Economics announced that Ukraine remained the largest recipient of German arms , accounting for ? 8.1 billion , or 62% of total approved exports . <p> " These figures demonstrate that we stand firmly by Ukraine 's side in its defense against the Russian war of aggression . Military aid for Ukraine is also in our own security policy interest , " the ministry said in a statement , referring to the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war , which recently marked its 1,000th day . <p> Germany 's annual arms exports beat the previous record of ? 12.2 billion set in 2023 . The total exports were made up of nearly ? 8.1 billion for weapons of war and ? 5.1 billion in other military equipment . <p> After Ukraine , major recipients included Singapore with ? 1.2 billion in approvals and Algeria with ? 559 million , and the US with nearly ? 299 million . <p> The data also revealed continued arms exports to Israel , despite growing calls for Berlin to impose an arms embargo over the Israeli government 's genocidal war on Gaza . <p> In 2024 , Berlin approved military equipment worth ? 161 million for Israel , according to official figures . The German government in March temporarily suspended its weapons supply to Israel but resumed deliveries several months later after getting assurances from Tel Aviv over their use . <p> Israel is currently facing a genocide case at the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) over its actions in Gaza , where over 45,000 Palestinians have been killed , and over 100,000 others wounded , most of them women and children . <p> Amnesty International released a report this month stating that " Israel has committed and is continuing to commit genocide against Palestinians " in the occupied Gaza Strip . The human rights group called on countries , including Germany , to immediately halt arms exports to Israel , warning them that they " are at risk of becoming complicit in genocide. " 
@@119054881 <p> ISLAMABAD/CAIRO - Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif on Wednesday directed the authorities concerned to take solid actions against human trafficking bringing defame to Pakistan and sought a report on the incidents of human trafficking during the last year involving Pakistani citizens . <p> The prime minister while chairing a meeting to discuss the death of Pakistani nationals in a boat capsizing incident in Greece and the measures to curb human trafficking called for strict action against the people involved in the trafficking of innocent people to other countries . <p> He recalled that 262 Pakistani nationals had lost their lives in another incident in the same area last year and expressed his displeasure over inaction against those responsible . The recurrence of such incidents is due to the sluggish actions against the people involved , he added . <p> The prime minister instructed the immediate implementation of the Integrated Border Management System ( IBMS ) to monitor international travelers . During the briefing , the prime minister was told that 174 people involved in human trafficking had been produced before courts with four of them convicted . <p> Prime Minister Shehbaz sought details on the public awareness campaign on human trafficking and asked the FIA and foreign ministry to furnish a report on the incidents involving Pakistani nationals over the last year . He also stressed the need to enhance collaboration with international institutions to prevent the recurrence of such tragic incidents . <p> Meanwhile , Prime Minister Muhammad Shehbaz Sharif on Wednesday arrived here on an official visit to Egypt to lead the Pakistan delegation at the 11th Summit of the Developing Eight ( D-8 ) countries being held from 18-19 December . <p> Minister for Public Business Sector of the Arab Republic of Egypt Mohamed Shimi along with senior Egyptian and officials of the Pakistan embassy in Cairo received the prime minister upon arrival at the airport , PM Office Media Wing said in a press release . <p> The theme of the 11th D-8 Summit is " Investing in Youth and Supporting SMEs : Shaping Tomorrow 's Economy . " <p> At the summit , the prime minister will underline the importance of investing in youth and SMEs for building a strong and inclusive economy ; creating jobs ; advancing innovation ; and promoting local entrepreneurship . " The Prime Minister will also attend the Special Session of D-8 on the Humanitarian Crisis and Reconstruction Challenges in Gaza and Lebanon to deliberate on the situation resulting from Israeli aggression in the Middle East . On the sidelines of the Summit , the Prime Minister is expected to hold bilateral meetings with the participating leaders , " it was further added . <p> Founded in 1997 in Istanbul , the D-8 Organization for Economic Cooperation , also known as Developing-8 , is an organisation for development co-operation among Bangladesh , Egypt , Indonesia , Iran , Malaysia , Nigeria , Pakistan , and Turkiye . <p> Its objective is to increase economic cooperation among Member States to boost economic growth , sustain development and promote and improve standards of living by focusing on bringing improvement and enhancing cooperation in agriculture , trade , transportation , industry , energy and tourism . <p> Meanwhile , In the boat capsizing accident many Pakistanis are still missing while Greece coast guards have ended the rescue operation . The Greece officials said that the missing people will be declared dead . On Sunday , three boats have capsized in the sea of Greece . A wooden boat capsized off Greece 's southern island of Gavdos on Friday night , the Greek coastguard said on Saturday . 
@@119054892 <h> Gaza rescuers say Israeli strikes kill at least 12 Palestinians <p> Gaza Strip , Palestinian Territories - Gaza 's civil defence agency said Israeli strikes Monday across the territory killed at least 12 people , the majority displaced Palestinians taking shelter in a house in the north . <p> More than 14 months into the Israel-Hamas war , the violence raged on even as the United States expressed " cautious optimism " about the prospects of reaching a ceasefire in Gaza . <p> Civil defence spokesman Mahmud Bassal told AFP that 10 Palestinians were killed when an Israeli strike at dawn hit a house in northern Gaza 's Beit Lahia , where several displaced families had sought refuge . Later on Wednesday , the director of Kamal Adwan hospital in Beit Lahia said that " gunfire and tank shells " caused a fire in the intensive care unit , with some patients suffering burns . <p> Hospital director Hossam Abu Safia told AFP that staff had to quickly move all patients out of the intensive care unit . The Israeli military said it was looking into the incident . 
@@119055109 <p> Pakistan and Indonesia have agreed to remain in close contact to maintain the momentum in bilateral relations with particular emphasis on further deepening economic and commercial ties . <p> The understanding to this effect came in a meeting between Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif and Indonesian President Prabowo Subianto on the sidelines of the D-8 Summit in Cairo . <p> Both the leaders exchanged views on a wide range of issues of mutual interest including bilateral ties covering political , trade and economic matters , as well as cooperation at the multilateral fora . <p> Speaking on the occasion , Shehbaz Sharif said Pakistan appreciates Indonesia 's support in achieving sectoral partner status in ASEAN and membership of ASEAN Regional Forum . <p> He said that Pakistan looks forward to becoming a Full Dialogue Partner of ASEAN with Indonesia 's support . <p> The Prime Minister termed Indonesia as a reliable trade partner of Pakistan , particularly as a palm oil supplier . He said that Pakistan relies on imports to meet its vegetable oil needs . <p> Both the leaders also reaffirmed their unwavering support for the Palestinian cause and called for a ceasefire in Gaza urging for a comprehensive approach for resolution of the Palestinian question , with the establishment of a sovereign and independent State of Palestine , with pre-1967 borders and Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital . <p> The Prime Minister congratulated Prabowo Subianto on assuming the office of the President and also extended an invitation to him to visit Pakistan at his early convenience . The Indonesian President graciously accepted the invitation . 
@@119055132 <p> CAIRO : Prime Minister ( PM ) Shehbaz Sharif on Thursday tabled strong condemnation of Israel 's ongoing military actions in Gaza , Lebanon , the West Bank , and Syria , urging the international community to take decisive steps towards ending the violence and ensuring justice for the unabated conflict-affected populations . <p> The prime minister made the call during a special session at the 11th D-8 Summit in Cairo , convened by Egyptian President Abdel Fattah Al-Sisi . <p> In his address , the prime minister emphasized the grave humanitarian crisis unfolding in Gaza , describing it as " one of the darkest chapters of modern history . " <p> He condemned Israel 's actions , labeling them as blatant violations of international law , United Nations resolutions , and directives from the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) . <p> " History will bear witness to these pages tainted in the blood of innocents , " he stated , underscoring the global responsibility to address the atrocities . <p> The prime minister also expressed strong support for the United Nations Relief and Works Agency ( UNRWA ) , which has been providing vital aid to Palestinian civilians amidst the chaos . <p> He condemned Israel 's attempts to demonize the organization , recognizing it as the only lifeline for millions of displaced and suffering people in Gaza and the West Bank . <p> " As the violence continues to spread , threatening to destabilize the wider region , Pakistan 's stance remains firm on the need for a just and lasting solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . A viable , sovereign , and contiguous State of Palestine based on pre-1967 borders , with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital , is the only path to enduring peace , " said PM Shehbaz . <p> He reiterated Pakistan 's unwavering support for all international mediation efforts aimed at achieving a ceasefire . He said , " We deeply appreciate the efforts of the State of Qatar and Egypt in this regard . " <p> PM Shehbaz Sharif highlighted the urgent need for humanitarian relief , with a focus on rebuilding the devastated regions . <p> " Pakistan , alongside other nations , has already sent essential relief goods to Palestine , entering through Egypt and Jordan . However , such efforts must be sustained to support the ongoing needs of millions of displaced families , particularly vulnerable women and children , who face extreme hardship during the harsh winter months , " he said . <p> The prime minister called on the global community to unite in the face of these atrocities , stressing , " the echoes and shrills of the innocent people of Gaza demand collective action to end the cycle of violence and liberation from what is called Israel 's barbaric military and political dominance . " <p> The prime minister urged all nations to listen to the cries of the innocent thousands of orphans , widows , hapless and destitute children who have lost their limbs , family members and loved ones and act swiftly to bring an end to this " prolonged historic catastrophe . " The world , he insisted , must respond now , for the future of Gaza , Lebanon , and the broader Middle East hangs in the balance . <h> ABOUT US <p> ARY NEWS brings you 24/7 Live Streaming , Headlines , Bulletins , Talk Shows , Infotainment , and much more . Watch minute-by-minute updates of current affairs and happenings from Pakistan and all around the world ! 
@@119055140 <p> Reuters is an international news organisation owned by Thomson Reuters <p> Human Rights Watch said on Thursday that Israel has killed thousands of Palestinians in Gaza by denying them clean water which it says legally amounts to acts of genocide and extermination . <p> " This policy , inflicted as part of a mass killing of Palestinian civilians in Gaza , means Israeli authorities have committed the crime against humanity of extermination , which is ongoing . This policy also amounts to an ' act of genocide ' under the Genocide Convention of 1948 , " Human Rights Watch said in its report . <p> Israel has repeatedly rejected any accusation of genocide , saying it has respected international law and has a right to defend itself after the cross-border Hamas-led attack from Gaza on Oct. 7 , 2023 that precipitated the war . <p> In a statement on X , Israel 's foreign ministry wrote : " The truth is the complete opposite of HRW 's lies . " <p> " Since the beginning of the war , Israel has facilitated the continuous flow of water and humanitarian aid into Gaza , despite operating under constant attacks of Hamas terror organization , " the statement said . <p> Although the report described the deprivation of water as an act of genocide , it noted that proving the crime of genocide against Israeli officials would also require establishing their intent . It cited statements by some senior Israeli officials which it said suggested they " wish to destroy Palestinians " which means the deprivation of water " may amount to the crime of genocide " . <p> " What we have found is that the Israeli government is intentionally killing Palestinians in Gaza by denying them the water that they need to survive , " Lama Fakih , Human Rights Watch Middle East director told a press conference . <p> In its response , Israel said it had ensured water infrastructure remained operational . It said international partners had sent water tankers through Israeli crossings , including last week , and ? Israel had facilitated the entry of more than 1.2 million tons of humanitarian supplies into Gaza . <p> Both reports came just weeks after the International Criminal Court issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his former defence chief for alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity . They deny the allegations . <p> The 1948 Genocide Convention , enacted in the wake of the mass murder of Jews in the Nazi Holocaust , defines the crime of genocide as " acts committed with intent to destroy , in whole or in part , a national , ethnical , racial or religious group " . <p> The 184-page Human Rights Watch report said the Israeli government stopped water being piped into Gaza and cut off electricity and restricted fuel which meant Gaza 's own water and sanitation facilities could not be used . <p> As a result , Palestinians in Gaza had access to only a few litres of water a day in many areas , far below the 15-liter-threshold for survival , the group said . <p> Israel launched its air and ground war in Gaza after Hamas-led fighters attacked Israeli communities across the border 14 months ago , killing 1,200 people and taking over 250 hostages back to Gaza , according to Israeli tallies . <p> Israel 's campaign has killed more than 45,000 Palestinians , displaced most of the 2.3 million population and reduced much of the coastal enclave to ruins . <h> ABOUT US <p> ARY NEWS brings you 24/7 Live Streaming , Headlines , Bulletins , Talk Shows , Infotainment , and much more . Watch minute-by-minute updates of current affairs and happenings from Pakistan and all around the world ! 
@@119074062 <p> Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif on Thursday addressed the 11th Summit of the Developing Eight ( D-8 ) countries in Cairo , which is taking place from December 18 to 19 , 2024 . <p> The summit 's theme is " Investing in Youth and Supporting SMEs : Shaping Tomorrow 's Economy . " This focus reflects an emphasis on fostering economic growth through youth engagement and support for small and medium enterprises ( SMEs ) as vital components for building inclusive economies and creating jobs . <p> At the beginning of his speech , Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif expressed gratitude to Egypt 's President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi for the " warm and generous welcome " extended to him and his delegation . <p> However , the premier noted , " unlocking this potential requires providing the right skills , opportunities , and financial resources " . <p> Highlighting the theme of the summit , which focused on investing in youth , Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif described it as a " blueprint for collective prosperity in the 21st century . " He underscored that youth and small and medium enterprises ( SMEs ) are " key drivers of economic development in any society . " <p> In his address , the prime minister noted the government 's achievements under the PM 's Youth Programme , including the distribution of " over 600,000 laptops to high-performing students . " He also highlighted the PM 's Youth Business and Agricultural Loan Scheme , which had disbursed " billions in loans " to help young Pakistanis establish and grow their businesses . <p> " This summit provides D-8 nations with a valuable platform to share best practices , pool resources , and develop initiatives that support youth and SMEs across borders , " he stated . <p> PM Shehbaz also shed light on efforts to empower Pakistan 's IT sector , pointing out that the country hosts " one of the largest freelance communities in the world . " He emphasized the government 's focus on mass-scale IT training to equip young people with tools to engage with the digital economy and transition from job-seekers to job-creators . <p> " Connectivity serves as a force multiplier , driving peace and prosperity , as underscored in the Dhaka declaration of 2021 , " he said . <p> The prime minister stressed the importance of enhancing transport connectivity among D-8 member states to develop efficient intra-trade corridors and reliable supply chains , citing the " Pakistan-Iran-Turkiye Corridor " as a standout initiative . <p> Earlier in the day , the prime minister arrived at the Royal Palace in Cairo to participate in the summit . He was welcomed by President El-Sisi and recorded his impressions in the visitors ' book , according to state-run Radio Pakistan . <p> On the sidelines of the summit , PM Shehbaz met with Professor Dr. Muhammad Yunus , chief advisor to Bangladesh 's interim government , and Indonesian President Prabowo Subianto . <p> He is also scheduled to hold bilateral meetings with the presidents of Iran , Turkiye , and Egypt . <p> In addition to his address , Sharif has engaged in bilateral meetings with other leaders , including Indonesian President Prabowo Subianto , where they discussed enhancing cooperation between their countries and reaffirmed their support for the Palestinian cause . <p> The D-8 organization , founded in 1997 , aims to enhance economic cooperation among its member states -- Bangladesh , Egypt , Indonesia , Iran , Malaysia , Nigeria , Pakistan , and T ? rkiye -- focusing on areas such as agriculture , trade , transportation , industry , energy , and tourism . <p> At the summit , PM Shehbaz Sharif will also attend a special session of D-8 on ' Humanitarian Crisis and Reconstruction Challen ? ges in Gaza and Lebanon ' to deliberate on the situation resulting from Israeli aggression in the Middle East . <p> ' Global Peace Hinges on Gaza Ceasefire ' <p> Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif renewed his call for a ceasefire in Gaza , emphasizing that Israel 's 14-month-long offensive , which has claimed over 45,000 Palestinian lives , must come to an end . Many victims are feared to be trapped beneath the rubble . <p> Highlighting the significance of the D-8 summit as a " vital platform for cooperation , " the premier stressed that the gathering was taking place at a " critical juncture . " <p> " A ceasefire in Gaza is crucial ; without it , peace , prosperity , and progress -- not just in the region but globally -- will remain unattainable , " PM Shehbaz stated . <p> Addressing the summit 's leaders , he added , " It is equally vital to discuss the situation in Gaza , the ceasefire in Lebanon , and the looming threat of further violence by Israel in this region and beyond . " <p> The prime minister also commended President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi for dedicating a special session to address the " pressing crises " in the Middle East . <p> I am a freelance journalist with a Master 's Degree in Mass Communication and an MS in Peace and Conflict Studies . Since 2006 , I have been involved in various capacities within the electronic media industry . At OyeYeah , I cover diverse genres ranging from journalism and fiction to fashion , including reviews and fact-finding reports . <p> OyeYeah is an entertainment project powered by Alliancez Inc . We 're motivated to digging up fresh , authentic news . Oye Yeah does not work on rumors ! We have all sourced news because we believe in bringing our readers the best . We have a vision and we 're striving hard to achieve it day in , day out ! 
@@119074137 <h> Erdogan voices all-out support for Pakistan in fight against terrorism at D-8 Summit <p> CAIRO -- Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan reiterated support for Pakistan in the fight against terrorism , in meeting with Pakistani Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif amid the ongoing Developing-8 ( D-8 ) summit in Cairo , Egypt . <p> Erdogan praised Islamabad 's economic recovery and reassured Sharif that Anakara would continue to strengthen political and economic ties between two Islamic nations . <p> Two sides also shed light on several other issues , including regional and global developments , with the T ? rkish President hopeful to support Syria 's people during their transformation following the recent collapse of Bashar al-Assad 's regime . <p> At D-8 Summit , PM Shehbaz Sharif emphasised importance of investing in youth for Pakistan 's socio-economic development . With over 60% of the country 's population under 30 , he highlighted the need to provide skills , opportunities , and financial resources to unlock their potential . He also stressed the role of small and medium-sized enterprises ( SMEs ) in driving economic growth , innovation , and job creation . <p> PM Sharif shared Islamabad 's initiatives , including distributing over 6lac laptops to youth and providing loans through PM 's Youth Business and Agricultural Loan Scheme . He also discussed the government 's focus on empowering the IT sector to help youth engage with the digital economy . <p> Additionally , Sharif reiterated his call for a ceasefire in Gaza , emphasizing that global peace can not be achieved without addressing the ongoing conflict . He praised President El-Sisi for dedicating a session to the humanitarian crises in Gaza and Lebanon and reaffirmed the D-8 's role as a vital platform for international cooperation . 
@@119074162 <p> In his opening remarks , the premier expressed gratitude to Egypt 's President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi for warm reception extended to him and his delegation . He emphasized significance of D-8 as a platform for fostering economic cooperation among member states , which include Egypt , Nigeria , Turkey , Pakistan , Indonesia , Bangladesh , Iran , and Malaysia . <p> In his speech , PM Sharif underscored summit 's focus on investing in youth , calling it key strategy for collective prosperity . He noted that youth and small and medium enterprises ( SMEs ) are crucial drivers of economic growth , innovation , and job creation . <p> Sharif said Youth bring fresh ideas and energy , while Small and medium-sized enterprises foster entrepreneurship and innovation . By investing in both , we can create inclusive and robust economies , " he added . <p> He further puts potential of Pakistan 's youthful population , emphasizing that unlocking this potential requires providing the necessary skills , opportunities , and financial resources . He also pointed to the government 's Youth Programme , which has distributed 600,000 laptops to high-achieving students , as part of Pakistan 's commitment to empowering its youth . <p> Prime Minister called for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza , stressing that global peace and prosperity can not be achieved without it . He also highlighted the urgency of discussing the humanitarian crises in Gaza and Lebanon and addressing the potential threats posed by Israel 's actions . <p> Earlier in day , the premier arrived at Royal Palace in Cairo , where he was warmly received by President El-Sisi . He also recorded his impressions in the visitors ' book . On the sidelines of the summit , the prime minister held productive meetings with Professor Dr. Muhammad Yunus , Bangladesh 's chief advisor , and Indonesian President Prabowo Subianto . He is expected to meet bilaterally with the presidents of Iran , Turkey , and Egypt . <p> The D-8 summit provides a vital opportunity for leaders to discuss regional challenges and collaborate on economic and developmental initiatives , with an emphasis on sustainable growth , innovation , and cooperation among member nations . 
@@119074897 <h> Shehbaz stresses youth empowerment at D-8 Summit in Cairo <p> Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif on Thursday highlighted the importance of investing in youth and supporting SMEs as key drivers of socioeconomic development while addressing the 11th Developing Eight ( D-8 ) Summit in Cairo . <p> Shehbaz stressed that with over 60% of Pakistan 's population under 30 , the country holds immense potential for innovation and growth . " Investing in youth and SMEs is crucial for our progress . They are the foundation for building inclusive and robust economies prepared for today 's global challenges , " he said . <p> He highlighted initiatives like the PM 's Youth Programme , which has distributed over 600,000 laptops , and the Youth Business and Agricultural Loan Scheme , which enabled young Pakistanis to start and scale businesses . Citing Pakistan 's position as home to one of the world 's largest freelance communities , he emphasized IT training programs to connect youth with global digital opportunities . <p> Shehbaz also underscored the importance of regional connectivity , highlighting projects like the Pakistan-Iran-Turkiye Corridor as vital for trade and supply chains among D-8 members . On Gaza , the prime minister called for an immediate ceasefire , emphasizing its necessity for global peace and prosperity . <p> He also reaffirmed Pakistan 's commitment to strengthening bilateral ties with Bangladesh during a meeting with Chief Adviser Muhammad Yunus . <p> During bilateral talks with Bangladesh 's Chief Adviser Muhammad Yunus , both leaders agreed to expand cooperation across all sectors , including trade , cultural exchanges , and people-to-people contacts . The meeting took place in a cordial environment , reflecting the goodwill and fraternal ties between the two nations . <p> Shehbaz expressed gratitude for recent Bangladeshi measures , including the removal of 100% physical inspection requirements for Pakistani consignments and the abolishment of a special security desk at Dhaka airport for Pakistani passengers . He also thanked Bangladesh for easing visa clearance processes , noting these steps as pivotal for enhancing trade and travel . <p> The two leaders emphasized exploring new areas of economic cooperation , particularly in chemicals , cement clinkers , surgical goods , leather goods , and the IT sector . They expressed satisfaction over recent high-level exchanges , including the Bangladesh Cricket Team 's visit to Pakistan and a Pakistani artist 's concert in Dhaka . <p> Shehbaz reiterated Pakistan 's commitment to aligning efforts with Bangladesh for mutually beneficial development objectives and enhancing collaboration at multilateral platforms , including D-8 . <p> The summit , themed " Investing in Youth and Supporting SMEs : Shaping Tomorrow 's Economy , " served as a platform for D-8 member states to share strategies for sustainable growth . Shehbaz thanked Egypt 's President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi for his hospitality and for dedicating a session to the humanitarian crisis in Gaza and Lebanon , calling it a necessary step for fostering peace in the region . <p> Our monitoring team diligently searches the vast expanse of the web to carefully handpick and distill top-tier business and economic news stories and articles , presenting them to you in a concise and informative manner . 
@@119098247 <p> Dr Maleeha Lodhi , Pakistan 's former envoy to the United States , said on Friday that the recent US sanctions on Pakistani firms for their alleged involvement in the country 's ballistic missile programme will not impact or slow it down . <p> On Wednesday , the US said it was imposing additional sanctions related to Pakistan 's ballistic missile programme , targeting four entities that it alleged were contributing to the proliferation or delivery of such weapons . <p> The US Department of State said in a statement that the White House will continue to act against proliferation and associated procurement activities of concern . <p> Speaking to Geo News today , Lodhi highlighted that the recent sanctions were nothing new and that the Biden administration had imposed sanctions six or seven times in the past four years . <p> " But one thing we need to keep in mind is that these kinds of sanctions do n't impact the health of Pakistan ; Pakistan 's nuclear policy , or missile policy , can not slow down or stop because of these sanctions . <p> " History has told us that the US has been imposing restrictions ever since Pakistan began its nuclear programme . Their attempts were to shut down Pakistan 's nuclear programme or to completely weaken it so that Pakistan would n't develop missiles . Their policy regarding has been completely unsuccessful , " she said . <p> The former ambassador also emphasised that the US policy towards Pakistan was " discriminatory " since it had never applied sanctions to India , whose missile programme was more advanced than Pakistan 's . <p> " They have ballistic missile defence systems which they have taken from the US , developed on their own and taken from Israel as well but sanctions were never applied on them , " she said . " This is a discriminatory policy but the impact on Pakistan will be zero . " <p> When asked by Geo News if she anticipated a significant shift in Pak-US relations after President-elect Donald Trump took office , Lodhi emphasised that Pakistan was not on the list of priorities for America 's foreign policy . <p> " Trump 's biggest foreign policy focus will be China , and then the war in Ukraine , the conflict in Gaza and what 's happening in Syria . These will be among their priorities . <p> " Pakistan is not the priority , nor do I think nuclear nonproliferation is an important issue for the Trump administration , " she said . " But naturally , it will have to be seen what foreign policies he actually focuses on . " <p> She noted that historically , the Republicans had not put as much emphasis on nuclear nonproliferation as Democrats . <p> " But as far as our mutual relationship is concerned , we must keep in mind that our relationship with the US is at a crossroads ever since they pulled out of Afghanistan . " <h> ' Biased ' US sanctions endanger regional , global peace : FO <p> Responding to the sanctions on Thursday , the Foreign Office ( FO ) had said they were " biased " and " endanger regional and international peace " . <p> " Pakistan considers the US decision to impose sanctions on NDC and three commercial entities as unfortunate and biased , " the FO said in a press release . <p> " Such double standards and discriminatory practices not only undermine the credibility of non-proliferation regimes but also endanger regional and international peace and security , " it added . <p> Asserting that Pakistan 's strategic capabilities were meant to " defend its sovereignty and preserve peace and stability in South Asia " , the FO said the latest instalment of sanctions " defies the objective of peace and security by aiming to accentuate military asymmetries " . <p> " Such policies have dangerous implications for strategic stability of our region and beyond , " the statement stressed . <p> Regretting the imposition of sanctions on the three Karachi-based private commercial entities , the FO said : " Similar listings of commercial entities in the past were based on mere doubts and suspicion without any evidence whatsoever . <p> " While claiming strict adherence to non-proliferation norms , licensing requirements for advanced military technology to other countries have been waived off in the past , " it noted . <p> The FO stated that Pakistan 's strategic programme was a " sacred trust bestowed by 240 million people upon its leadership " . <p> " The sanctity of this trust , held in the highest esteem across the entire political spectrum , can not be compromised , " it asserted . 
@@119098258 <p> ISLAMABAD : During a meeting with Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif on the sidelines of the D-8 summit of developing nations in Cairo , the interim leader of Bangladesh on Thursday expressed the desire to resolve outstanding grievances from Dhaka 's 1971 separation from Islamabad . <p> The two countries were once one nation , but split following a bloody civil war , which saw the territory previously referred to as ' East Pakistan ' seceding to form the independent nation of Bangladesh . <p> " The issues have kept coming again and again . Let 's settle those issues for us to move forward , " the AFP news agency quoted Dr Muhammad Yunus as telling PM Shehbaz , according to a statement from the former 's office . <p> In the years since the split , Dhaka 's leaders -- especially the recently ousted regime of Sheikh Hasina -- stayed firmly in the Indian camp , preferring to maintain close ties with New Delhi and keeping Islamabad at arm 's length . <p> However , ever since a popular uprising that saw Hasina 's government toppled in August , there has been a thaw in ties between the two capitals , with trade and bilateral relations seeing a marked improvement . <p> It was in this spirit that PM Shehbaz , during a meeting with Dr Yunus , highlighted the historical , religious and cultural linkages between the two countries and expressed Pakistan 's keen desire to enhance bilateral cooperation , particularly in the areas of trade , people-to-people contacts and cultural exchanges , a statement from the PM Office said . <p> The Nobel laureate , who currently serves as the chief adviser to Bangladesh 's interim government , also expressed a commitment to revive the moribund eight-nation South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation ( Saarc ) -- largely stalled due to arguments between Islamabad and New Delhi . " This is a top priority , " AFP quoted Yunus as telling PM Shehbaz . <p> For his part , the Pakistani premier expressed his gratitude for the recent steps taken to facilitate trade and travel between the two countries , including the waiver of the condition of 100 per cent physical inspection of the consignments from Pakistan and abolishment of special security desk at the Dhaka airport , earlier established to scrutinise Pakistani passengers . <p> The prime minister also thanked Bangladesh for doing away with additional clearance requirements for Pakistani visa applicants . He also stressed the need to take advantage of the great potential to boost trade in different sectors , including chemicals , cement clinkers , surgical goods , leather goods and IT . <p> The two leaders expressed satisfaction over recent positive developments in bilateral relations and noted with satisfaction the increasing frequency of high-level contacts . <p> They also agreed to expand and deepen bilateral cooperation in all areas of mutual interest and emphasized the need to align efforts to achieve mutually beneficial development objectives . <p> The two leaders acknowledged the importance of people-to-people contacts and cultural exchanges including enhanced exchange of artists , sportspersons , academics , and students etc . <p> Meetings with world leaders <p> In addition to the meeting with Dr Yunus , PM Shehbaz met with a whole host of global leaders on the sidelines of the D-8 summit in the Egyptian capital . <p> In a bilateral meeting with Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian , he stressed the importance of operationalising border markets , to develop and improve the livelihood of those living in the border regions between the two neighbours . <p> He also congratulated Iran on becoming a full member of BRICS and requested Iran 's support for Pakistan 's membership of the bloc . <p> PM Shehbaz also met Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan , where he emphasised that the two countries should increase economic cooperation in new areas for foreign investment and joint ventures , particularly in IT , agriculture and green technology . <p> The two leaders held wide-ranging talks and discussed further strengthening of bilateral relations , particularly boosting economic ties to achieve the bilateral trade target of $5 billion set by the two leaders . <p> They agreed to continue to work together for further deepening economic , trade , and defence cooperation . The two leaders also reiterated their resolve to support each other on core issues of national interest including Turkiye 's support for Jammu and Kashmir and Pakistan 's support for Turkiye 's stance on the Cyprus issue . <p> Earlier , in his remarks at the D-8 Summit in Cairo , PM Shehbaz said that Pakistan possessed a " fountain of potential for innovation and growth " in the shape of 60pc of the population , which is under the age of 30 . <p> " Pakistan is home to one of the largest freelance communities in the world . We are focusing on IT trainings at a mass scale to equip our youth with the necessary tools to connect with the digital world and capitalise on those opportunities with the aim to enable jobs-seekers become job-creators , " he remarked . <p> Reflecting on Summit 's theme , ' Investing in Youth and Supporting Small and Medium Enterprises ' , the prime minister stressed its relevance in building resilient economies and creating opportunities . <p> He outlined that for D-8 member-states , empowering youth and entrepreneurship , presented an opportunity , to harness the power of young population , and create environments , where small businesses , could thrive . <p> " Today 's Summit offers a valuable opportunity for D-8 countries to share the best practices , pool resources , and create , programs , that support , youth and SMEs across borders , " he said . <p> He also announced that the country 's federal cabinet had approved , the implementation of the D-8 Preferential Trade Agreement as well as its protocol on Dispute Settlement Mechanisms . <p> PM Shehbaz also highlighted the importance of ceasefire in Gaza , adding that it was crucial to ensure peace , prosperity and progress , not only in the region but globally . <p> " I would , in all humanity , urge my brother presidents , prime ministers , other dignitaries sitting in this room that while we discussed today 's agenda , it was equally important to discuss the situation in Gaza , the peace and ceasefire in Lebanon and potential threat of Israel 's carnage , " he added . 
@@119098296 <h> New Regional Order <p> Historically , Muslims were at the forefront of global power , particularly during the Islamic Golden Age ( 8th to 14th centuries ) , when empires such as the Abbasid Caliphate , the Ottoman Empire , and the Umayyad Caliphate dominated vast territories . <p> These empires not only controlled significant portions of the land but were also centres of scientific , cultural , and intellectual advancement . However , the global power dynamics have shifted dramatically in recent centuries . The decline of Muslim empires , especially after the fall of the Ottoman Empire following World War-I , led to the fragmentation of the Muslim world . <p> Many Muslim-majority regions , particularly in the Middle East and North Africa , became subject to colonial rule or intervention by European powers , leading to geopolitical instability that continues today . For example , in 2020 , a report by the World Bank indicated that countries in the Arab world were among the lowest in terms of political stability , with many nations like Syria , Yemen , and Libya embroiled in ongoing conflict . <p> Meanwhile , Western nations , particularly the United States , Russia , and China have gained increasing influence in the region , with military bases and political leverage . For instance , in 2021 , the U.S. had over 750 military installations across the globe , many of which are strategically placed in or near Muslim-majority countries . <p> The consequences of these shifts are evident in the growing influence of non-Muslim powers in the region , often leading to tensions and competition over resources , ideology , and control , leaving the Muslim world increasingly fragmented and dependent on foreign intervention . This stark contrast between past dominance and current geopolitical vulnerability underscores the changing power dynamics in the Muslim world . <p> The geopolitical condition of the Middle East is undergoing significant transformations , marked by the increasing influence of Western powers , Israel , and China . Historically , the United States has maintained a dominant presence in the region , providing substantial economic and security assistance . For instance , since 1946 , the Middle East and North Africa have received more U.S. foreign assistance than any other region . <p> The Middle East is undergoing significant transformations that challenge traditional perceptions of its boundaries and power structures . <p> In recent years , China 's role has expanded notably . Trade between China and Middle Eastern countries nearly doubled from $262.5 billion in 2017 to $507.2 billion in 2022 , with the Middle East becoming China 's fastest-growing trading partner in 2022 , experiencing a 27.1 percent year-on-year increase China 's diplomatic engagements have also intensified . In July 2024 , China brokered a reconciliation agreement between Palestinian factions Hamas and Fatah , resulting in the " Beijing Declaration , " which aimed to form a unity government . Israel continues to assert its strategic interests , particularly in neighbouring territories . In December 2024 , Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu announced plans for an indefinite occupation of a Syrian buffer zone , raising concerns about potential violations of existing ceasefire agreements . <p> These developments suggest a complex interplay of influences in the Middle East , with Western powers , Israel , and China each pursuing strategic objectives . However , the notion that the region will be entirely conquered or ruled by these entities oversimplifies the intricate and dynamic nature of Middle Eastern geopolitics . Local actors retain significant agency , and the region 's future will likely be shaped by a combination of internal dynamics and external influences . <p> The Middle East , as a geopolitical entity , is undergoing significant transformations that challenge traditional perceptions of its boundaries and power structures . The recent overthrow of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has disrupted longstanding alliances , notably weakening Iran 's influence in the region . This upheaval has enabled Turkey , under President Recep Tayyip Erdo ? an , to assert itself as a dominant regional power , leveraging strategic alliances and involvement in regional conflicts to expand its influence . <p> Concurrently , Israel is actively reshaping regional dynamics through military interventions and strategic initiatives aimed at countering Iranian influence and its proxies . These developments indicate a shift from the traditional Middle Eastern geopolitical landscape , suggesting that the region 's future may diverge from its historical identity . <p> The emergence of a new regional order in the Middle East has the potential to reconfigure power dynamics , potentially weakening the cohesion and influence of the Muslim world . Recent geopolitical developments , such as the normalization of relations between Israel and several Arab states ( the Abraham Accords ) and the growing influence of non-Arab states like Turkey and Iran , suggest a fragmented political landscape . For instance , Saudi Arabia 's rapprochement with Iran , brokered by China , indicates shifting alliances that may dilute traditional Sunni-Shia power divides but also increase competition for regional dominance . <p> At the same time , external actors like the United States , Russia , and China are increasingly asserting influence in the region , often leveraging divisions among Muslim-majority nations to advance their strategic interests . The weakening of Pan-Islamic organizations such as the Organization of Islamic Cooperation ( OIC ) further reflects the inability of the Muslim world to present a united front on critical global issues . <p> Also , domestic instability in countries like Syria , Yemen , and Libya continues to drain regional resources and attention . Economic challenges , such as high youth unemployment rates ( 27 percent in MENA in 2023 , according to the World Bank ) and dependency on oil exports , further limit the ability of these nations to project strength globally . While the region may experience localized cooperation , the broader Muslim world risks diminished collective power in the face of these fragmentations unless stronger multilateral frameworks and economic diversification are pursued to counterbalance external and internal pressures . <p> Israel 's recent military actions , including the indefinite occupation of the Syrian buffer zone and intensified operations in Gaza , signal its intent to assert greater regional dominance . The fall of Syria 's Assad regime has further weakened Iran 's influence , disrupting its " axis of resistance " and diminishing its regional power . Concurrently , Israel 's economic strength surpasses that of many neighbouring countries , with a GDP per capita significantly higher than Egypt 's $3,500 . However , the ongoing Israel-Palestine conflict and tensions with groups like Hezbollah and Hamas continue to challenge Israel 's security and international standing . While Israel 's military and economic capabilities position it as a formidable force in the Middle East , the complex geopolitical landscape and persistent conflicts suggest that unchallenged regional dominance remains uncertain . <p> To counter external influence and Israel 's presence in the Middle East , the Muslim world needs a strategic approach focusing on political unity , economic self-reliance , and diplomatic engagement . Strengthening regional alliances , particularly within the Arab League and the Organization of Islamic Cooperation ( OIC ) , is essential to address shared challenges . Economic self-reliance can be achieved through increased intra-regional trade , reducing dependence on external powers . Diplomatically , the Muslim world should advocate for a fair Palestinian resolution and build broader coalitions through international forums . Additionally , empowering civil society and youth to demand accountability is crucial for long-term resilience . A combination of political , economic , and diplomatic strategies will help counter external influence and Israel 's strategic interests in the region . <p> The writer is a PhD scholar and author of various books on international relations , criminology and gender studies . He can be reached at fastian.mentor@gmail.com 
@@119098305 <h> Israel hits port , energy sites in Yemen after missile intercepted <p> Israel struck ports and energy infrastructure in Yemen on Thursday after intercepting a missile fired from the country , warning Huthi rebel leaders there it " will reach you too . " <p> Huthi media said the strikes hit power stations , oil facilities and a port in Hodaidah , killing nine people and injuring others . Israel 's raids came after it intercepted a missile fired from Yemen . <p> The Huthis have regularly targeted Israel over its military operation in Gaza . <p> Israel 's military said it " conducted precise strikes on Huthi military targets in Yemen -- including ports and energy infrastructure in Sanaa , which the Huthis have been using in ways that effectively contributed to their military actions . " " I warn the leaders of the Huthi terrorist organisation : Israel 's long arm will reach you too , " Israeli Defence Minister Israel Katz said . <p> Al-Masira , a media channel belonging to the Huthis , said a series of " aggressive raids " were launched in the Yemeni capital of Sanaa and the port city of Hodeidah . <p> It reported raids that " targeted two central power plants " in and around Yemen 's capital Sanaa , while in Hodeidah it said " the enemy launched four aggressive raids targeting the port ... and two raids targeting " an oil facility . It said strikes on the Al-Saleef port had killed seven people , while two more were killed and others injured in the strike on the oil facility . <p> The strikes came after Israel 's military intercepted a missile from Yemen for the second time this week . 
@@119098333 <p> A person stands at a damaged mosque , which according to Palestinians , was burned by Israeli settlers , near Salfit in the Israeli-occupied West Bank . Photo : Reuters <p> Israeli settlers set fire to a mosque in the occupied West Bank and defaced its facade with hateful and racist slogans , including " Revenge " and " Death to Arabs " spray-painted in Hebrew . The attack took place early on Friday morning at the Bar al-Walidain mosque in the village of Marda . <p> Abdallah Kamil , the governor of Salfit , confirmed the incident , calling it a targeted assault by a group of settlers . " A group of settlers carried out an attack by setting fire to the mosque , " Kamil said in a statement . <p> Local residents reported that the settlers set fire to the entrance of the mosque and wrote Hebrew slogans on its walls . Fortunately , the fire was extinguished before it could cause significant damage to the structure . <p> Nasfat al-Khufash , head of the Marda village council , described the attack as a " systematic terror attack by a group of settlers " in an interview with Reuters . <p> Israeli settlements on Palestinian land in the occupied West Bank are considered illegal by the United Nations and under international law . <p> Governor Kamil noted that settlers had previously entered the village " under the protection of the Israeli army " and that similar acts of vandalism and graffiti had been reported in surrounding areas . <p> The Palestinian Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Ramallah condemned the attack as a " blatant act of racism " and a manifestation of the " widespread incitement campaigns " led by Israel 's extremist right-wing government . <p> In response , Israeli police and Shin Bet security services issued a joint statement , calling the attack " extremely serious " and vowing to take decisive action to bring the perpetrators to justice . <p> Settler violence in the occupied West Bank has surged since the Gaza war began on October 7 , 2023 . As of October 2024 , there have been over 1,400 settler attacks in the West Bank . <p> According to the Palestinian Health Ministry , at least 803 Palestinians have been killed in the West Bank by Israeli forces or settlers since the start of the Gaza war . 
@@119098402 <p> DUBAI : 2025 will be a year of reckoning for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Iran . The Israeli leader is set to cement his strategic goals : tightening his military aggression over Gaza , thwarting Iran 's nuclear ambitions , and capitalising on the dismantling of alleged Tehran 's allies -- Palestinian Hamas , Lebanon 's Hezbollah and the removal of Syrian president Bashar al-Assad . <p> Assad 's collapse , killing of the top leaders of Hamas and Hezbollah and the destruction of their military structure mark a succession of monumental wins for Netanyahu . <p> Netanyahu is poised to zero in on Iran 's nuclear ambitions and missile programme , applying an unyielding focus to dismantling and neutralising these strategic threats to Israel . Iran , Middle East observers say , faces a stark choice : either continue its nuclear enrichment programme or scale back its atomic activities and agree to negotiations . <p> " Iran is very vulnerable to an Israeli attack , particularly against its nuclear programme , " said Joost R. Hiltermann , Middle East and North Africa Programme Director of the International Crisis Group . " I would n't be surprised if Israel did it , but that does n't get rid of Iran . " " If they ( Iranians ) do not back down , Trump and Netanyahu might strike , as nothing now prevents them , " said Palestinian analyst Ghassan al-Khatib , referring to President-elect Donald Trump . Khatib argued that the Iranian leadership , having demonstrated pragmatism in the past , may be willing to compromise to avert a military confrontation . <p> Trump , who withdrew from a 2015 agreement between Iran and six world powers aimed at curbing Tehran 's nuclear goals , is likely to step up sanctions on Iran 's oil industry , despite calls to return to negotiations from critics who see diplomacy as a more effective long-term policy . <p> Defining legacy <p> Amid the turmoil of Iran and Gaza , Netanyahu 's long-running corruption trial , which resumed in December , will also play a defining role in shaping his legacy . For the first time since the outbreak of the Gaza crisis in 2023 , Netanyahu took the stand in proceedings that have bitterly divided Israelis . <p> With 2024 coming to an end , the Israeli prime minister will likely agree to sign a ceasefire accord with Hamas to halt the 14-month-old aggression in Gaza and free Israeli hostages held in the enclave , according to sources close to the negotiations . But Gaza would stay under Israeli military control in the absence of a post-war US plan for Israel to cede power to the Palestinian Authority ( PA ) , which Netanyahu rejects . Arab states have shown little inclination to press Israel to compromise or push the decaying PA to overhaul its leadership to take over . <p> " Israel will remain in Gaza militarily in the foreseeable future because any withdrawal carries the risk of Hamas reorganising . Israel believes that the only way to maintain the military gains is to stay in Gaza , " Khatib told Reuters . <p> For Netanyahu , such a result would mark a strategic victory , consolidating a status quo that aligns with his vision : Preventing Palestinian statehood while ensuring Israel 's long-term control over Gaza , the West Bank and East Jerusalem -- territories internationally recognised as integral to a future Palestinian state . <p> The Gaza crisis erupted when Hamas stormed into Israel on October 7 , 2023 , killing 1,200 people and taking 250 hostages , according to Israeli tallies . Israel responded with an air and land offensive that has killed 45,000 people , health authorities there say , displaced 1.2 million and left much of the enclave in ruins . <p> While the ceasefire pact would bring an immediate end to the Gaza hostilities , it would not address the deeper , decades-old Palestinian-Israeli conflict , Arab and Western officials say . <p> On the ground , prospects for a Palestinian state , an option repeatedly ruled out by Netanyahu 's government , have become increasingly unattainable , with Israeli settler leaders optimistic that Trump will align closely with their views . <p> A surge in settler violence and the increasing confidence of the settler movement - highway billboards in some West Bank areas bear the message in Arabic " No Future in Palestine " - reflect a growing squeeze on Palestinians . <p> Even if the Trump administration were to push for an end to the conflict , " any resolution would be on Israel 's terms , " said Hiltermann of the Crisis Group . <p> " It 's over when it comes to a Palestinian state , but the Palestinians are still there , " he said . In Trump 's previous term , Netanyahu secured several diplomatic wins , including the " Deal of the Century , " a U.-backed peace plan which Trump floated in 2020 to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . <p> The plan , if implemented , marks a dramatic shift in US policy and international agreements by overtly aligning with Israel and deviating sharply from a long-standing land-for-peace framework that has historically guided negotiations . <p> It would allow Israel to annex vast stretches of land in the occupied West Bank , including Israeli settlements and the Jordan Valley . It would also recognise Jerusalem as the " undivided capital of Israel " - effectively denying Palestinian claims to East Jerusalem as their capital , a central aspiration in their statehood goals and in accordance with UN resolutions . <p> Across the border from Israel , Syria stands at a critical juncture following the overthrow of Assad by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) rebel forces , led by Ahmad al-Sharaa , better known as Abu Mohammed al-Golani . <p> Golani now faces the monumental task of consolidating control over a fractured Syria , where the military and police force have collapsed . HTS has to rebuild from scratch , securing borders and maintaining internal stability against threats from remnants of the Assad regime , and other adversaries . <p> The greatest fear among Syrians and observers alike is whether HTS , once linked to al-Qaeda but now presenting itself as a Syrian nationalist force to gain legitimacy . <p> The group 's ability - or failure - to navigate this balance will shape the future of Syria , home to diverse communities of Sunnis , Shi'ites , Alawites , Kurds , Druze , and Christians . 
@@119098434 <p> STOCKHOLM : Sweden announced plans Friday to stop funding to the UN 's Palestinian refugee agency in response to an Israeli ban , but pledged to increase its aid to Gaza via other groups . <p> Funding earmarked for Gaza will total 800 million kronor ( $72 million ) in 2025 , but aid to UNRWA , which totalled 451 million kronor in 2024 , will be stopped , said the government . <p> Israeli lawmakers have passed legislation to bar UNRWA from operating in Israel and east Jerusalem , while raising the prospect of similar measures against other aid agencies . <p> Lawmakers backed the legislation after years of harsh Israeli criticism of UNRWA , which has only increased since the start of the war in Gaza following Hamas 's deadly October 7 attacks last year . <p> " Israel 's two decisions in the Knesset , which Sweden has criticised , will make many of UNRWA 's activities more difficult and impossible , " Benjamin Dousa , Minister for International Development Cooperation , said in a post to X. <p> UNRWA provides assistance to nearly six million Palestinian refugees across Gaza , the West Bank , Lebanon , Jordan and Syria . <p> " Swedish aid must reach its destination , not get stuck in a bank account along the way , " Dousa said . <p> " Due to Israel 's decision in the Knesset , we are therefore forced to pass on the aid to other organisations , " he added , citing the UN 's World Food Programme ( WFP ) and UN children 's organisation UNICEF . <p> Dousa added that UNRWA was " also going through a crisis of confidence " . <p> UNRWA chief Philippe Lazzarini said on X that the Swedish government 's decision was " disappointing " and came " at the worst time for Palestine Refugees " . <p> " This is a sad day for Palestine Refugees and the multilateral system which Sweden has spearheaded , " he added . <p> Lazzarini said he hoped Stockholm would " reconsider its decision and pursue its longstanding solidarity by investing in both a political solution and the human development of Palestine Refugees through UNRWA " . <p> The agency has faced criticism from Israeli officials that has escalated since the start of the war in Gaza , which was unleashed after Hamas 's October 7 , 2023 , attack . <p> The attack resulted in the deaths of 1,208 people , mostly civilians , according to an AFP tally of Israeli official figures . <p> In response , Israel launched a withering assault on Gaza that has killed at least 45,129 people , also mostly civilians , according to Hamas-run health ministry figures that the United Nations considers reliable . 
@@119098471 <h> T ? rkiye , the US and Israel are now the three major players who are likely to call the shots in Syria . All three intend to relentlessly pursue their national interests there . <p> General Wesley Clark , a four-star US general claimed in his book , " The Clark Critique " , that post 9/11 the US had planned to take out seven Muslim states . He asserted that it would start with Iraq , Syria , Lebanon , Libya , Somalia , and Sudan and finish off with Iran . Some analysts however dismissed it as peacetime " routine contingency planning " carried out normally by major military powers . However , a bird 's eye view of the Greater Middle East Region ( GMER ) today shows that these " ostensible contingency plans " have been ominously manifested to a very great degree . Iraq , Libya , Sudan , Somalia , Lebanon , Syria , Gaza-Palestine , Afghanistan etc are all in various stages of devastation ; human losses , infrastructure destruction , population displacement , economic ruin , socio-political destabilization , chaos , turmoil , upheavals and self-defeating , clashing , internal militant strife . Israel has carried out air-missile-drone strikes against Iran too which has responded in kind . <p> The GMER stands devastated . Its geopolitical and geostrategic environments are now in an advanced , agitated state of flux . They continue to be extremely vitiated , unpredictable and evolving at a furious pace . The national interests of militant groups , major regional players and global powers are now clashing comprehensively in Syria . <p> Syria is the latest country on the list to fall . President Bashar Al Asaad was forced out of office and had to seek refuge and political asylum in Russia . A number of factors contributed to his removal from power . The so-called Axis of Resistance provided President Asaad critical support . Iran had a very significant presence in Syria through its Iran Revolutionary Guards Corp ( IRGC ) . It was transhipping military hardware , equipment etc to Hizbollah in Lebanon . Israel 's unrelenting attacks on Hizbollah 's leadership and war-making potential dealt the most lethal blow to its militant capacity and capabilities . Decapitated and weakened militarily it was unable to help President Asaad against the myriads of terrorist/militant groups inside Syria and/or the Palestinian cause in Gaza . The removal of President Asaad also cut off Hizbollah 's main supply route from Iran leaving it critically short of much needed reinforcements and military ( re ) supplies . Iran had suffered losses in Israeli air attacks and also due to the debilitating international sanctions on it . Both its nodes , IRGC in Syria and Hizbollah in Lebanon and its so-called Axis of Resistance stood effectively neutralized . The Iranians have reportedly evacuated Syria . Russia had been inextricably embroiled in Ukraine and could not spare any major military/air efforts to support President Asaad against the marauding Hayat Tahrir as Shaam ( HTS ) - an Al Qaeda offshoot and till yet proscribed by the US-led West - and other groups . It was maintaining a naval base at Tartus and an air base at Khiemim in Latakia . It has shifted its air and naval assets to safety along the Mediterranean Coast . Its naval ships have moved off shore . It has lost its clout and is practically out of the Syrian theatre . The collective loss of timely support from Russia , Iran , the decimation of Hizbollah and the militant onslaught sounded the death knell for the Asaad regime ! <p> Russia , Iran and Hizbollah have been practically pushed out of the Syrian theatre . Syria 's worried regional Arab brothers however watch listlessly from the sidelines . They appear stupefied by their traditional mental , physical and moral paralyses and show no signs of moving to decisively influence the evolving geopolitical and geostrategic environments . T ? rkiye , the US and Israel are now the three major players who are likely to call the shots in Syria . All three intend to relentlessly pursue their national interests there . <p> Turkiye is intent upon securing its southern border with Syria . There are two main groups that are active along the Syrian-Turkiye border . One is the Syrian National Army ( SNA ) and the other is the Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) . The SNA is a coalition of armed Syrian groups comprising various rebel factions and supported by Turkiye . Turkiye maintains very close ties with the more dominant factions in post-Asaad Syria , that is SNA and the HTS . The Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) , on the other hand , is a Kurdish-led coalition of ethnic militias and rebel groups which is allied to the US . It seeks a secular , democratic and federalized Syria . The SDF is opposed by Turkiye which claims that it has direct links to the Kurdistan Worker 's Party ( PKK ) , which it has declared a terrorist organization . It will continue to prevent the SDF/Syrian Kurdish groups from supporting the PKK in its anti-Turkiye activities . Furthermore , it wants the SNA to push the SDF away from its borders . The SNA has thus far captured Manbij and Deir az Zour forcing the SDF to move East of the River Euphrates , a withdrawal reportedly facilitated by the US . The US supports the SDF against the ISIL elements in Syria . In the current scenario , Turkiye reportedly gave the HTS its tacit approval , backing and support to launch the offensive against the Asaad regime . The US has about 900 troops in northeast and east Syria . This is the region where most of Syria 's oil and gas reserves are found . The SDF there is its key ally . The US is cognisant of the post-Asaad political void in Syria . In all probabilities , it will move to thwart the potential threat of a quasi-caliphate taking shape in Syria . It will not allow any transnational terrorist group to fill this yawning political vacuum and pose threats to Israel , the continental US , or their interests in the region , either . 
@@119098697 <p> The United Nations General Assembly has voted to ask the International Court of Justice for an opinion on Israel 's obligations to facilitate aid to Palestinians that is delivered by states and international groups including UN . <p> The Norwegian-drafted resolution was adopted by the 193-member body with 137 votes in favor . <p> Israel , the United States and 10 other countries voted no , while 22 countries abstained . <p> The move came in response to Israel 's decision to ban the operation of the U.N . Palestinian refugee agency UNRWA in the country from late January and other obstacles faced by other U.N . agencies in their aid work in Gaza over the past year . <p> The resolution called upon Israel to uphold and comply with its obligations not to impede the Palestinian people from exercising its right to self-determination . " 
@@119116409 <h> The UN 's 192 member nations ' failure to stop Israel 's onslaught in Gaza has been called " an utter disgrace " by Francesca Albanese , the agency 's special investigator on human rights in the occupied Palestinian territory . <p> Al Jazeera claims that the UN expert said , " What 's happening in Gaza is the shame of the century , " in a social media repost of a video interview . <p> " Gaza is no longer there . Other than the hopelessness of those who still die there , there is little much left , " Albanese stated . <p> Take a look at the torment . Take a look at the people being killed : mothers , students , nurses , doctors , and 17,000 children . must have the guts to declare that this is not genocide after considering the actions and words of the soldiers . <p> According to the rights expert , " without the shocking , shocking cover-up by the media , this genocide would not have been possible . " <h> PKKH ( Pakistan Ka Khuda Hafiz ) is a respected Pakistani news website offering accurate and comprehensive coverage of politics , culture , and global affairs . With a commitment to objective reporting and insightful analysis , PKKH provides readers with a well-rounded perspective on current events . The platform encourages community engagement and leverages digital technology to reach a wide audience , contributing to informed discussions and awareness . 
@@119116415 <h> The goal of Dhaka is to " move on from 1971 . " <h> ISLAMABAD : The interim leader of Bangladesh said Thursday that he would like to settle unresolved issues related to Dhaka 's 1971 split from Islamabad during a meeting with Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif on the fringes of the D-8 conference of developing nations in Cairo . <p> Once a single nation , the two broke up after a brutal civil war in which the region known as " East Pakistan " broke away to become the independent country of Bangladesh . <p> " The problems have repeatedly surfaced . According to a statement from the former 's office , Dr. Muhammad Yunus said PM Shehbaz , " Let 's resolve those issues so we can move forward , " as reported by the AFP news agency . <p> The leaders of Dhaka , particularly the recently overthrown Sheikh Hasina regime , have remained firmly in the Indian camp in the years following the split , choosing to keep tight ties with New Delhi and keep Islamabad at bay . <p> However , relations between the two capitals have thawed after Hasina 's government was overthrown in August due to a popular movement , and commerce and bilateral relations have significantly improved . <p> According to a statement from the PM Office , PM Shehbaz emphasized the historical , religious , and cultural ties between the two nations during a meeting with Dr. Yunus . He also conveyed Pakistan 's strong desire to strengthen bilateral cooperation , especially in the areas of trade , people-to-people contacts , and cultural exchanges . <p> The Nobel laureate , who is now the chief adviser to the interim government in Bangladesh , also pledged to bring the eight-nation South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation ( Saarc ) back to life . Saarc has largely stalled because of disagreements between Islamabad and New Delhi . " This is a top priority , " Yunus told PM Shehbaz , according to AFP . <p> The Pakistani premier , for his part , conveyed his appreciation for the recent actions taken to ease trade and travel between the two nations , such as the removal of the special security desk at the Dhaka airport that was previously in place to examine Pakistani travelers and the lifting of the requirement that all shipments from Pakistan be physically inspected . <p> Additionally , the prime minister expressed gratitude to Bangladesh for eliminating the need for further vetting for Pakistani visa applications . He also emphasized the importance of utilizing the enormous potential to increase commerce in a variety of industries , such as IT , chemicals , cement clinkers , medical supplies , and leather items . <p> The two leaders noted with satisfaction the growing frequency of high-level encounters and expressed satisfaction with recent good advances in bilateral ties . <p> They also underlined the necessity of coordinating efforts to accomplish mutually advantageous development goals and decided to enhance and broaden bilateral cooperation in all areas of shared interest . <p> The two leaders recognized the value of interpersonal relationships and cross-cultural interactions , including increased interaction amongst students , athletes , artists , and academics . <p> Conversations with world leadersApart from the encounter with Dr. Yunus , PM Shehbaz also had meetings with numerous world leaders in the Egyptian capital at the D-8 summit . <p> He emphasized the need of operationalizing border markets in a bilateral meeting with Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian in order to advance and enhance the standard of living for residents of the two neighbors ' border regions . <p> Additionally , he congratulated Iran on joining BRICS as a full member and asked Iran to back Pakistan 's admission to the group . <p> PM Shehbaz also met Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan , where he underlined that the two nations should enhance economic cooperation in new areas for foreign investment and joint ventures , notably in IT , agriculture and green technology . <p> In their extensive discussions , the two presidents talked about enhancing their bilateral relationships , especially in the economic sector , in order to reach their $5 billion bilateral trade goal . <p> They decided to keep collaborating in order to strengthen their defense , trade , and economic ties . The two leaders also reaffirmed their commitment to standing by one another on fundamental matters of national concern , such as Pakistan 's backing of Turkiye 's position on the Cyprus issue and Turkiye 's support for Jammu and Kashmir . <p> Speech during the D-8 SummitIn his earlier statements at the D-8 Summit in Cairo , Prime Minister Shehbaz claimed that Pakistan has a " fountain of potential for innovation and growth " because 60% of its population is under 30 . <p> One of the biggest freelance communities in the world is found in Pakistan . In order to provide our young people the skills they need to engage with the digital world and take advantage of these opportunities , we are concentrating on providing IT trainings on a large scale . Our goal is to turn job seekers into job creators , " he said . <p> In his reflection on the summit 's topic , " Investing in Youth and Supporting Small and Medium Enterprises , " the prime minister emphasized the importance of this approach in fostering opportunity and resilient economies . <p> He explained that encouraging youth and entrepreneurship offered D-8 member states a chance to harness the potential of the youth and establish conditions that would support the growth of small enterprises . <p> " The D-8 countries have a great opportunity to share best practices , pool resources , and develop programs that support youth and SMEs across borders at today 's summit , " he said . <p> Additionally , he said that the D-8 Preferential Trade Agreement and associated Dispute Settlement Mechanisms protocol had been ratified by the nation 's federal cabinet . <p> PM Shehbaz also emphasized the significance of the truce in Gaza , saying that it was essential to ensuring peace , prosperity , and advancement both locally and internationally . <p> As we discussed today 's agenda , he said , " I would , in all humanity , urge my brother presidents , prime ministers , and other dignitaries sitting in this room that it was equally important to discuss the situation in Gaza , the peace and ceasefire in Lebanon , and the potential threat of Israel 's carnage . " <h> PKKH ( Pakistan Ka Khuda Hafiz ) is a respected Pakistani news website offering accurate and comprehensive coverage of politics , culture , and global affairs . With a commitment to objective reporting and insightful analysis , PKKH provides readers with a well-rounded perspective on current events . The platform encourages community engagement and leverages digital technology to reach a wide audience , contributing to informed discussions and awareness . 
@@119136441 <h> Israeli air strike kills 12 members of family , including 7 children <p> The Israeli strike on an apartment building in Nuseirat injured at least 15 people , the civil defence said . PHOTO : REUTERS <p> An Israeli air strike has killed 12 members of a family , including seven children , in the northern Gaza Strip , according to the Palestinian Civil Defence rescue agency . The bombing , which took place in Jabalia , saw victims pulled from the rubble of the Khallah family home . <p> " All of the martyrs are from the same family , including seven children , the oldest aged six , " said Mahmoud Basal , a spokesman for the Civil Defence , speaking to AFP . He added that the air raid also left 15 others injured . <p> The Israeli army confirmed the strike , saying it targeted " several terrorists who were operating in a military structure belonging to the Hamas terrorist organisation and posed a threat to IDF troops operating in the area . " <p> " According to an initial examination , the reported number of casualties resulting from the strike does not align with the information held by the IDF , " a spokesperson for the army added . <p> The attack came as Pope Francis condemned the bombing of children in Gaza , calling it " cruelty . " " Yesterday children were bombed . This is cruelty , this is not war , " he said . " I want to say it because it touches my heart . " <p> Israel 's assault on Gaza continues as the conflict enters its 14th month . On Friday , a drone missile struck a residential building in the Nuseirat refugee camp , killing at least eight people , according to Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital . In Beit Hanoon , four people , including two girls and their parents , were killed in an airstrike . Meanwhile , the bodies of three brothers were recovered from the rubble of a home near Kamal Adwan Hospital . <p> Gaza now a ' Graveyard , ' warns UNRWA <p> Gaza has become a " graveyard , " with worsening conditions including hunger , heavy rain , and ongoing attacks , warned Louise Wateridge , Senior Emergency Officer for the UN Palestinian Refugee Agency ( UNRWA ) . She added that " over two million people are trapped " in the region , struggling in makeshift shelters as most buildings have either been damaged or destroyed . <p> " It 's impossible for families to shelter in these conditions , " Wateridge said , speaking from the Nuseirat camp . " Most people are living under fabric , they do n't even have waterproof structures , and 69 percent of the buildings here have been damaged or destroyed . " <p> UNRWA , which assists nearly six million Palestinian refugees across Gaza and beyond , is grappling with a lack of resources as Israeli legislation has barred the agency from operating in Israel and occupied East Jerusalem . This move prompted Sweden to announce it would stop funding UNRWA but would double its aid to Gaza through other groups . UNRWA 's Chief Philippe Lazzarini described the decision as " disappointing , " given the dire situation in Gaza . <p> Meanwhile , the UN General Assembly has asked the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) to issue an advisory opinion on Israel 's obligations regarding humanitarian aid in Palestinian territories . This follows previous ICJ rulings urging Israel to halt its offensive in Rafah and allow safe passage for humanitarian aid , which Israel has not complied with . <p> The ongoing crisis continues to strain international efforts to provide assistance to those affected by the violence . 
@@119136589 <p> " The world is not seeing what 's going on with these people , it 's impossible for families to shelter in these conditions , " Louise Wateridge , from the UN agency for Palestinian refugees ( UNRWA ) , said in a statement . <p> Speaking from Nuseirat in central Gaza after heavy winter rains overnight and into Friday morning , the UNRWA Senior Emergency Officer , said that " an entire society here is now a graveyard ... Over two million people are trapped . They can not escape . And people continue to have basic needs deprived and it just feels like every path here that you could possibly take is leading to death . " <p> Echoing that warning , the UN Children 's Fund ( UNICEF ) highlighted widespread and dangerous malnutrition levels in the enclave , where more than 96 per cent of women and children in Gaza " can not meet their basic nutritional needs , " said Rosalia Bollen , Children 's Fund ( UNICEF ) communication specialist . <p> Speaking from Amman , Ms. Bollen noted that the most northerly part of Gaza has been under a near total siege for 75 days . This has largely prevented humanitarian assistance from reaching youngsters in need there " for more than 10 weeks " , she said . <p> " The suffering is not just physical , it is also psychological ... Children are cold , they 're wet , they 're barefoot ; I see many children who still wear summer clothes and with cooking gas gone , there 's also lots of children I see scavenging through piles of garbage looking for plastic they can burn . " <p> With more heavy rain expected on Friday evening , UNRWA 's Ms. Wateridge emphasized the critical need to get aid into the enclave to support Gazans who have been uprooted multiple times by Israeli bombardment and who have little to protect themselves from the elements . <p> " It 's impossible for families to shelter in these conditions , " Ms. Wateridge insisted . " Most people are living under fabric , they do n't even have waterproof structures and 69 per cent of the buildings here have been damaged or destroyed . There 's absolutely nowhere for people to shelter from these elements . " 
@@119136596 <h> The major losers in this Syrian conundrum have been Iran , Russia , Hezbollah and the Palestinian cause . <p> The major regional players and global powers have started consultations on the future of Syria . The HTS has , thus far , shown a great deal of maturity and made all the right statements that indicate its desire for peace and an orderly transition to a truly representative , democratic rule . The main players in the Syrian theatre now are the US , Israel , and Turkiye . They will foremost mould the evolving geopolitical and geostrategic environments to their respective advantages . Period . The removal of a tyrannic dynastic rule after more than half a century must have sent ominous tremors throughout the monarchic Arab world . It remained studiously aloof as Syria degenerated into chaos and destruction . In the current environment , it will be required to foot the bill for Syria 's reconstruction through US-led West multinationals , at best . Post-Asaad the environment thus appears more conducive for the revival of the Abraham Accords . The EU will submissively follow the US and Israel 's lead . China , as is its wont , is in a wait and see mode . <p> The major losers in this Syrian conundrum have been Iran , Russia , Hezbollah and the Palestinian cause . Russia would want to maintain its strategic reach and sphere of influence in the Mediterranean Sea Region . To that end , it will engage the HTS to retain its air and naval bases in Syria . Iran has lost its bridgehead ( Syria ) into the region and along with it , its main supply route to its main protege Hizbollah in Lebanon . Its strategic reach has been circumscribed . Hizbollah has been seriously mauled . This is reflecting adversely on its other proteges like the Houthis , Hamas etc too . It and Russia will now need to redefine their strategy to remain pertinent to Syria , the region and the Palestinian cause . <p> Israel is arguably the sole winner in this Syrian imbroglio , apart from the Syrian people . It has emerged much stronger , much more assertive and aggressive in the post-Asaad period . It has rapidly wrested the initiative and moved purposefully to turn the emerging geopolitical and geostrategic environments to its advantage . It appears to be following a two-pronged strategy . One , it has moved very decisively to expand its perimeter of security deep into Syria . It has advanced beyond the Golan Heights , has occupied the UN-maintained buffer zone and Mount Hermon as well . These expansionist measures are being termed as necessary albeit temporary steps till such time Syria settles down to a peaceful , orderly system of governance and all potential threats to Israel therefrom have been effectively neutralized . The Israeli political forces however are already clamouring to expand its borders to these occupied limits inside Syria . The IDF is now just a few kilometres away from Damascus , has occupied several Syrian villages , forcibly disarmed their people and is now positioned advantageously to threaten the new political dispensation and people of Syria even more emphatically . The US-led West and international media have maintained their customary and seemingly ordained criminal silence over Israel 's blatant incursions , excesses and expansionism . With Russia , Iran and Hizbollah rendered practically inconsequential , Israel now has a far greater freedom of action in all Arab lands like Gaza , the West Bank , Syria and beyond . All this makes HTS ' lightning advance into Damascus very meaningful . Is Asaad 's despotic regime being replaced by intrusive , assertive , dictatorial US-Israeli hegemony ? Were these effects foreseen or planned for ? Or is it an unpredicted strategic faux pas that has emerged in the pursuit of self-serving national interests only ? <p> Two , it has acted authoritatively to exploit the power vacuum in Syria and turn it into a weapons-free zone . It has carried out over 500 air strikes on all known weapons , munitions depots/dumps , military infrastructure , chemical weapon and missile sites etc . Furthermore , it intends to ensure that no major military equipment , weapons or munitions , fall into inimical militant/terrorist hands . It has tried to limit Syria 's strategic capacities and capabilities and curtail all possible armed/military threats from Syria for good . To that end , Israel has established radars , communications , intelligence gathering , observation and surveillance facilities on Mount Hermon . This places it and its IDF in a very advantageous position vis a vis any potential military or militant movement or activity from Syria towards Israel . The strategic balance is now overwhelmingly in Israel 's favour . <p> The most serious threat to Syria , the region , and world peace is its potential balkanization . Currently , there is no one central authority that has its writ on the whole of Syria and its people . Syria is currently occupied by various powers through their proxies . Turkiye is dominating the North-North West of Syria through SNA . The US is present in and dominates the East and Northeast through the SDF . Israel is occupying a large tract of Syria in its South-South West . The remainder of Syria appears to be under the control of the HTS , its affiliates and other groups . This is a pure , diabolical witches ' brew if there ever was one ! How on earth are the conflicting and clashing interests of the main militant groups , regional and global players going to be satiated ? Is a virtual land grab and slugfest in the offing ? How are all Syrian factions and their respective backers going to agree to one central authority and system ? Will erstwhile terrorist groups get legitimized ? If Syria is to degenerate into a fatal civil war it will take the region down with it ! <p> Does Israel have the manpower and resources to achieve its ambition of the elusive Greater Israel ? Will then Iran be next ? And ominously , will this marauding Armageddon creep further east of Iran ? ( The Creeping Armageddon by this scribe , The Nation , 14 &amp; 15 February 2020 and Armageddon Creeps On , 30 October and 01 November 2023 ) . Regional and global geopolitics are predictably on tenterhooks , on edge ! ! <p> Imran MalikThe writer is a retired brigadier of the Pakistan Army . He can be reached at im.k846@gmail.com and tweets @K846Im. 
@@119136598 <h> Facing human suffering is painful . But we must , especially in the case of Gaza , because we Americans are partially responsible for it . <p> The US news media flits from story to story , seemingly incapable of sustaining attention on events that require it . The nightmare of Gaza which received in-depth treatment for over a year has now faded from view , eclipsed by other dramatic developments in the Arab East . <p> In recent weeks , news out of the Middle East has been dominated by Israel 's devastating attacks on Lebanon and the now Israeli-enforced " ceasefire . " Now , the major reporting has turned to the al Qaeda spin-off , Hayat Tahrir al Sham , capturing major Syrian cities . While these developments are , of course , consequential , the continuing war on Gaza and its lingering wounds deserve our attention . <p> Against this backdrop , it was notable that on a single day this week the New York Times carried three stories , filling a full page and a half , on the continuing nightmare in Gaza . One was on Amnesty International 's new report charging Israel with genocide in Gaza , and another on a deadly Israeli strike on a " humanitarian zone " in Gaza . The largest was : " For the disabled , life in Gaza was always a struggle . Now it 's agony . " Combined , the three describe the horrors of Gaza 's last 14 months , continuing bombings on displaced Palestinians , and the agonizing future before them . <p> The Amnesty International story was significant for several reasons . First , it 's the world 's preeminent human rights organization . When I served as a presidential appointee to a US commission focused on religious freedom , our annual reports and investigations relied heavily on Amnesty 's work , as does the State Department . Whether dealing with countries in Africa , Asia , or the Arab World , attention is given to Amnesty 's assessments . Countries are routinely denounced for abusive behaviors with the notation " as Amnesty International has reported , " with one exception , of course -- Israel . Amnesty 's work everywhere is revered , but when it 's about Israel , it 's reviled . <p> It 's therefore quite consequential that Amnesty boldly declared that " Israel committed , and is committing genocide against Palestinians in Gaza . " They continue : " Israel 's unlawful conduct throughout its military offensive , resulted in unprecedented harm to Palestinians in Gaza that resulted in the massive scale of killings and serious injuries over a short period of time . " <p> Responding to these charges , the Israelis have followed their familiar script -- " lie , deny , and obfuscate " -- and ultimately falling back on charging their accusers with bias . Interestingly , to date , there 's been little or no response from officials in Washington . That was not the case back in 2022 when Amnesty International and another prominent human rights organization , Human Rights Watch , issued reports finding that Israel had imposed an apartheid system on the Palestinian people under their control . Congress and the White House were quick to denounce both human rights groups -- upon whom they rely so heavily for information on other countries . <p> Notably , neither the Washington Post nor the New York Times even carried the story about the apartheid charges . This genocide report , on the other hand , has received major coverage in both papers . The story of the Israeli airstrike in al Mawasi , in a humanitarian shelter zone where Palestinians ordered by Israel to evacuate other areas were supposed to be safe , was both cruel and deadly . Bombings of this sort are a daily occurrence , but rarely receive coverage . <p> Most disturbing was the piece about the plight of the disabled in Gaza . Before this war disabled persons in Gaza numbered 56,000 ; that 's surely increased significantly in the past year . The Times story includes pictures of children without limbs lacking wheelchairs , rehabilitation facilities , or surgery when needed . It describes in detail the agony of a disabled Palestinian in Gaza who simply needs a bathroom though none can accommodate a wheelchair . <p> The faces of these children in the rubble of destroyed neighborhoods are heartbreaking . They are innocents without a future . Living in crowded tent areas through winter or in the remains of buildings on a bombed-out street -- this is life for hundreds of thousands of Palestinian children . Facing human suffering is painful . But we must , especially in the case of Gaza , because we Americans are partially responsible for it . <p> Just because it 's disappeared from the front pages does n't mean it 's not happening . It is ongoing . So it 's important that the New York Times brought it home to us one day this week . 
@@119149875 <p> Israeli airstrikes in Gaza on Saturday resulted in significant civilian casualties , with a recent attack killing 12 members of a family , including 7 children . <p> This incident is part of ongoing Israeli military aggression in the region , which has intensified amid the prolonged conflict between Israel and Hamas that began over 14 months ago . <p> The airstrike targeted a residential building in Jabalia , located in northern Gaza . According to reports from Gaza 's civil defence agency , all victims were from the same family , with the youngest child being just six years old . <p> In addition to the fatalities , 15 other individuals were injured during the strike . <p> This attack is part of a broader pattern of violence that has seen numerous airstrikes across various neighbourhoods in Gaza , including densely populated areas like refugee camps . <h> Humanitarian Crisis <p> The situation in Gaza has been described as dire , with the United Nations Relief and Works Agency ( UNRWA ) labelling it a " graveyard " due to the overwhelming number of casualties and deteriorating living conditions . Reports indicate widespread hunger , heavy rain exacerbating shelter conditions , and continuous bombardment leading to significant destruction . <p> The UN has noted that over 45,200 Palestinians have been killed since the beginning of the conflict , with a substantial portion being women and children . <p> The humanitarian crisis is compounded by shortages of food , water , and medical supplies , as well as the destruction of infrastructure necessary for basic living conditions . <p> The ongoing violence has drawn international condemnation . Many officials and humanitarian organizations have criticized Israel 's military actions as disproportionate and have called for urgent measures to protect civilians and facilitate humanitarian aid delivery to those affected by the conflict . <p> This tragic incident highlights the severe impact of the ongoing conflict on civilian populations in Gaza and underscores the urgent need for a resolution to prevent further loss of life . <p> I am a freelance journalist with a Master 's Degree in Mass Communication and an MS in Peace and Conflict Studies . Since 2006 , I have been involved in various capacities within the electronic media industry . At OyeYeah , I cover diverse genres ranging from journalism and fiction to fashion , including reviews and fact-finding reports . <p> OyeYeah is an entertainment project powered by Alliancez Inc . We 're motivated to digging up fresh , authentic news . Oye Yeah does not work on rumors ! We have all sourced news because we believe in bringing our readers the best . We have a vision and we 're striving hard to achieve it day in , day out ! 
@@119168388 <p> WHILE the US policy has remained focused on enabling the creation of a Greater Israel via Gaza genocide , expansion of Zionist settlements in the West Bank and the grabbing of more and more parts of Syria by the Zionist state after the fall of the Assad regime , it is floundering elsewhere as was evident from claims coming from Washington , D.C. this week . <p> The US , Israel and their OIC member-allies in the region have caused setbacks to another OIC member Iran and the Axis of Resistance it leads by neutralising its most potent arm , Lebanon 's Hezbollah movement , by direct attacks and also by toppling the Syrian regime and severing the movement 's supply routes . Israel 's land grab in Syria also gives it commanding heights including Mount Hermon over south Lebanon to its west , the Hezbollah stronghold , as well as over Damascus towards the east . <p> But , in its final five weeks in office , a bizarre claim has been made by a top US security official about US concerns regarding Pakistan 's ballistic missile programme . This claim coincided with the announcement of US sanctions on a Pakistani state entity and three Pakistani Chinese firms . <p> In remarks made at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace , US Deputy National Security Adviser Jon Finer said it was hard for the US to see Pakistan 's actions as anything other than an emerging threat to America . <p> The bizarre claim regarding Pakistan 's missile programme could well be to appease India . <p> " Pakistan has developed increasingly sophisticated missile technology , from long-range ballistic missile systems to equipment that would enable the testing of significantly larger rocket mot ? ors , " he said , adding : " If those trends continue , Pakis ? tan will have the capability to strike targets well beyond South Asia , including the United States . " <p> Any analyst in his right mind would pour scorn over this claim . Pakistan is nowhere in direct confrontation with the US anywhere in the world and why in the world would it wish to acquire ballistic missile capability to target the US , a superpower ? <p> Pakistan 's entire national security doctrine is based on the Indian threat which , given the conflicts in 1948 , 1965 , 1971 and the Kargil flare-up , is a legitimate concern . <p> So , what is really behind such claims and the third or fourth set of sanctions over a short span of time ( read Baqir Sajjad 's excellent situationer in yesterday 's edition of this paper for details ) on Pakistan 's development of delivery systems ? <p> My first thought was that when the US official referred to the potential capability to target the US it may have been a roundabout way of saying that perhaps Israel could come under threat . I quickly dismissed this notion . This , because Pak ? istan has never done anything more than offer ' moral and diplomatic ' support to the Palestinian cause and at this point in time , it is n't in a position to take a tougher line against the Gaza genocide in terms of support beyond diplomatic fora . <p> The horror of babies and children being murdered , maimed and crippled through multiple amputations in a brutal indiscriminate bombardment because Israelis believe there are no ' innocents ' in Gaza , including children , is on the one hand , and Pakistan 's economic state on the other . <p> That crippling reality makes it impossible for Pakistan do anything , even if its civil and military ruling elite may have wanted to come to the Palestinians ' aid . It stays afloat on handouts from US-controlled IFIs and cash-rich US allies in the region . One false move and the tap from which the dollars drip ( unlike the free flow of the past ) will be turned off . <p> Therefore , one was forced to look elsewhere and one plausible reason came via The Friday Times ' founder and former editor Najam Sethi , who pointed to the broader canvas . <p> India enjoys a special status with the US as evident from the fact that it can freely import sanctioned Iranian ( and even Russian ) oil at much cheaper rates without drawing international ( read : US ) opprobrium , even as countries like Pakistan are sinking under the cost of their oil import bill but ca n't look towards Iranian oil and petroleum products for the fear of incurring Washington 's wrath . <p> Delhi is thus pampered not only because of the size of its market -- over 1.4 billion people with a middle class component of more than 400 million -- but also due to its location and physical size . It is seen as a counter to Chinese power in the reg ? ion . India 's membership of the so-called Quad ? rilateral Security dialogue alongside the US , Japan and Australia was meant to curb China 's economic and military primacy in the region . <p> After the collapse of the Soviet Union 33 years ago , it was expected that US imperialism would remain unchallenged in a unipolar world . Since then , China has made rapid advances as an economic and military power . This has posed a challenge to US ambitions around the globe . <p> The formation of the BRICs alliance is another major challenge and irritant . After the Kazan ( Russia ) summit of the grouping in October this year , Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping agreed to disengage their troops on their disputed border . By Nov 6 , the two countries had completed the process . <p> Apart from that improvement in China-India relations that will boost trade ties between the two , there was also talk at BRICS of setting up an alternative payment system for international deals to obviate secondary sanctions imposed on Russia , for example . <p> President-elect Donald Trump has already warned BRICS against the development of any alternative payment system/ currency undermining the greenback and threatened to impose 100 per cent tariffs on the nine-nation bloc many more are keen to join , if it happened . <p> The bizarre claim regarding Pakistan 's missile programme could well be to appease India and keep it onside to use it as a bulwark against China whether that is likely or not . India does see Islam ? abad 's nuclear and missile programme as a major obstacle to its domination of the region and often sounds like a cry-baby when raising this issue . 
@@119168432 <h> Shadow of Hatred <p> Five innocent lives extinguished , 200 more left injured , and a nation plunged into shock . Germany , a country that has heavily invested in the fight against fanaticism , stands paralyzed after a 50-year-old Saudi dissident , steeped in Islamophobic beliefs , wreaked havoc at a bustling Christmas market . This heinous act of terror was not merely a random outburst of violence ; it was the manifestation of deep-seated hatred and intolerance , directed not just towards a group of people , but towards a nation that dared to embrace diversity . <p> Taleb A , with his bizarre profile as a perpetrator of mass violence , has become a great headache to the far-right and anti-immigrant factions . How ironic it is that in their fervour to point fingers at supposed Muslim extremism , they are left scrambling to explain how a man like him -- one who incites violence , not in the name of faith but from a hypocritical loathing for those different from himself -- could emerge from their ranks ! This is the ugly truth that everyone needs to confront : it is not the beliefs of Muslims that fuel extremism , but the venom of those who harbour unrelenting hatred . <p> Moreover , we 've been served a grave disservice by global intelligence failures . Saudi authorities had alerted their German counterparts not once , not twice , but thrice about the dangers posed by this individual . Yet , the warnings fell on deaf ears . As we stand on the precipice of greater violence , it is clear that the necessity for comprehensive intelligence-sharing across borders has never been more crucial . <p> This despicable act is not an isolated incident ; it is an alarming indicator of the toxicity that seeps into our societies when hatred is allowed to flourish unchecked . Hatred , in all its rancid forms , breeds violence , inflicts suffering and disrupts the fabric of our communities . It is time we reject the narrative that divides us by religion , race , or nationality . From Christmas markets to conflict zones like Gaza , the sanctity of human life is universal . We can not allow the darkness of hatred to shroud our collective humanity . In the aftermath of this tragedy , we have a choice : we can either cower in fear and allow hatred to take root , or we can rise , united in our condemnation of all forms of violence and bigotry . We must remember the victims of this atrocity not just as statistics , but as beloved individuals whose lives mattered . * 
@@119168542 <p> This handout picture released by the office of Iran 's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei on December 22 , 2024 , shows him looking on as he makes a speech to visitors in Tehran . Iran 's supreme leader denied on December 22 that groups around the region functioned as Tehran 's proxies , warning that if his country chose to " take action " , it would not need them anyway . Photo : AFP <p> Follow us <p> TEHRAN : Iran 's supreme leader denied Sunday that the groups around the region functioned as Tehran 's proxies , warning that if his country chose to " take action " , it would not need them anyway . <p> The remarks came after a year in which Iran-backed Hezbollah in Lebanon and Hamas in Gaza suffered heavy losses in wars with Israel , and two weeks after the fall of Syrian president Bashar al-Assad , who had been a key link in Tehran 's so-called axis of resistance . <p> Another spoke of that axis , Yemen 's Houthi rebels , have been repeatedly targeted by the United States and Britain over their attacks on Red Sea shipping lanes , launched in solidarity with Palestinians . <p> " The Islamic Republic does not have a proxy force . Yemen fights because it has faith . Hezbollah fights because the power of faith draws it into the field . Hamas and ( the Islamic ) Jihad fight because their beliefs compel them to do so . They do not act as our proxy , " supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei told a group of visitors in Tehran . <p> " They ( the Americans ) keep saying that the Islamic Republic has lost its proxy forces in the region ! This is another mistake , " he said , adding : " If one day we want to take action , we do not need a proxy force . " <p> Earlier this month , Syrian rebels ' lightning push to Damascus from their strongholds in the northwest ended the decades-long rule of Assad 's family , which had been an ally of Tehran . <p> Khamenei predicted " the emergence of a strong , honourable group " in Syria , saying the country 's young men had " nothing to lose . " <p> " His university , school , home , street and life are insecure ; what should he do ? He must stand with strength and determination against those who have designed this insecurity and those who have implemented it , and God willing , he will overcome them . " <p> Assad had long played a strategic role in Iran 's anti-Israel axis of resistance , particularly in facilitating the supply of weapons to Hezbollah in neighbouring Lebanon . <p> The axis of resistance also includes Hamas , the Houthis and smaller Shia militia groups in Iraq . <p> All of the groups are united in their opposition to Israel and its main backer the United States . <p> The supreme leader , who has the final say in major state policies , also accused the United States of trying to create chaos and unrest in Iran . <p> " The Iranian nation will trample under its strong feet anyone who accepts America 's mercenary role in this regard , " he said . 
@@119168571 <h> Gaza death toll surpasses 45,250 amid relentless Israeli attacks <p> At least 32 more Palestinians were killed in Israeli attacks in the Gaza Strip , bringing the overall death toll since last year to 45,259 , the Health Ministry in the enclave said on Sunday . <p> A ministry statement added that some 107,627 others were injured in the ongoing assault . <p> " Israeli forces killed 32 people and injured 54 others in four massacres of families in the last 24 hours , " the ministry said . <p> " Many people are still trapped under the rubble and on the roads as rescuers are unable to reach them , " it added . <p> Israel has continued a genocidal war on the Gaza Strip since a Hamas attack on Oct. 7 , 2023 , despite a UN Security Council resolution calling for an immediate cease-fire . <p> The second year of genocide in Gaza has drawn growing international condemnation , with officials and institutions labeling the attacks and blocking of aid deliveries as a deliberate attempt to destroy a population . <p> Last month , the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant for war crimes and crimes against humanity in Gaza . 
@@119168594 <h> Yemen rebels strike Israel 's Tel Aviv in pre-dawn missile attack <p> Tel Aviv - A missile fired from Yemen by Huthi rebels struck Israel 's commercial hub of Tel Aviv before dawn on Saturday , wounding 16 people in the second such attack within days . Israel 's military said it had failed to intercept the missile , which hit a district of Tel Aviv municipality , forcing many residents to leave their homes in the early hours of Saturday . <p> The Huthis claimed responsibility for the attack , saying it used a ballistic missile directed at " a military target of the Israeli enemy " . <p> The rebels have repeatedly launched missile attacks against Israel in solidarity with Palestinians since the war in Gaza began more than a year ago , most of which have been intercepted . 
@@119168661 <h> Violence Continue <p> Overnight , tragic news has emerged of 16 soldiers martyred on Saturday in a terrorist attack on a checkpost in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa 's South Waziristan District . The attack , claimed by the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan ( TTP ) , is a grim reminder of the unrelenting violence faced by Pakistani forces in the region . Such tragedies should not , and can not , be ignored . <p> The loss of 16 soldiers in a single attack is an appalling and unacceptable toll . These are figures typically associated with active war zones like Gaza , Ukraine , or South Sudan , where heavy weaponry and open warfare define the conflict . To witness such numbers regularly within Pakistan 's borders , spread across regions like Khyber Pakhtunkhwa , Balochistan , Swat , and Chitral , is a stark indicator of a security crisis spiraling out of control . <p> Pakistan is facing a two-front insurgency : one led by the TTP in the north and northwest and the other spearheaded by groups like the Baloch Liberation Army in Balochistan . These threats , often funded and supported by external forces , have become a persistent scourge . Despite repeated assurances from Pakistan 's leadership , filled with rhetoric about unyielding resolve and leaving " no stone unturned , " tangible action appears absent . Neither a decisive military operation nor a reduction in such attacks has materialized . <p> Each time Pakistan endures an attack , we hear of counterinsurgency operations claiming the elimination of specific numbers of terrorists . However , these reactive measures seem to have little impact on the operational capabilities of militant groups . The continued frequency and ferocity of these attacks suggest a failure of counterinsurgency strategies . <p> If terrorists can brazenly infiltrate and carry out such devastating attacks , killing 16 of our brave soldiers in a single day , it is a damning indictment of the state 's inability to safeguard its borders and its defenders . This is not a norm Pakistan can afford to accept . It is imperative that the government and military leadership urgently reevaluate their approach , adopting proactive measures to neutralize these threats . Anything less would dishonor the sacrifices of those who continue to lay down their lives in defense of the nation . 
@@119172667 <p> The year 2024 , though began with aspirations for positive developments capable of bringing stability to a planet engulfed in turmoil of all shapes and kinds , turned out like the previous ones i.e. , an amalgamation of events that were not only consequential for the outgoing year but will have far-reaching consequences in socio-economic , geopolitical and other domains in the future that awaits us . <p> From conflicts , wars , elections to global efforts to tackle challenges such as climate change -- this year had it all . <p> The year was marred by further socio-political disarray , armed conflicts with ever-worsening bloodshed displacing hundreds of thousands and exacerbating an already tumultuous geopolitical landscape adding to the existing uncertainty affecting millions if not billions directly and indirectly . <p> So , here 's a look at key conflicts and geopolitical events that highlighted the outgoing year . <h> Russia-Ukraine war <p> The outgoing year saw the toll of the Russia-Ukraine war -- which began in 2022 -- further intensifying with both sides escalating their attacks via more extensive and disastrous use of lethal weaponry . <p> According to the United Nations , more than 39,000 civilians have been killed or injured in the war that has raged on for over 1,000 days now and is now nearing its third anniversary . <p> A serviceman of 24th Mechanized brigade named after King Danylo of the Ukrainian Armed Forces fires a howitzer towards Russian troops at a front line , near the town of Chasiv Yar in Donetsk region , Ukraine on November 18 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> Apart from the bloodshed , the conflict has had severe socio-economic reverberations making over 3.5 million Ukrainians -- as per the data from International Organisation for Migration ( IOM ) -- internationally displaced persons ( IDPs ) coupled with over 6.7 million refugees worldwide according to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ( UNHCR ) . <p> In terms of troops ' fatalities , over 71,000 Russian soldiers are estimated to have been killed , Al Jazeera reported , citing a late-September report by the independent Russian media outlet Mediazona . <p> However , Ukraine 's General Staff claims this number to be much higher , somewhere in the north of 654,000 . <p> A general overview of IDPs in Ukraine due to war with Russia . -- UN <p> Similarly , where Western estimates of Ukrainian troops ' casualties stand around 80,000 , but Moscow , as per a November report published on RT news website , has claimed to have killed around half a million Ukrainian personnel . However , the exact number of casualties in the existing fog of war is hard to determine . <p> Despite calls for an end to the war , the fighting has only been inflamed with Kyiv striking Russia with long-range US-supplied weapons resulting in Russia 's retaliation via a hypersonic intermediate-range ballistic missile " Oreshnik " . <p> Henceforth , despite calls for ceasefire and the world will be entering 2025 with a raging Ukraine-Russia war with no end to fighting in the foreseeable future . <h> Blood-soaked Middle East <p> The Middle-East , which has been a cauldron of geopolitical instability for years , continued to simmer with violence that hit the occupied Palestinian territories -- Gaza , West Bank -- in October last year . <p> The ongoing Israeli onslaught has left more than 44,000 Palestinians martyred with the injured tally exceeding 100,000 , as confirmed by UN 's Deputy Special Coordinator for the Middle East Peace Process Muhannad Hadi . <p> Smoke rises from an explosion in Gaza as seen from Israel 's border on March 17 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> Palestinians make their way as they inspect the damages after Israeli forces withdrew from a part of Jabalia refugee camp in northern Gaza on May 30 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> The silhouettes of a military vehicle and a soldier are seen near the Gaza border on December 16 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> A woman sits at her destroyed house in Rafah , in southern Gaza on March 22 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> Palestinians gather to receive food during the holy month of Ramadan in Jabalia in northern Gaza on March 19 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> A Palestinian child cries as she tries to gather good cooked amid prevailing hunger crisis in Khan Younis in southern Gaza on December 4 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> A Palestinian man reads the Holy Quran as he waits to break his fast while sitting on the rubble of his house which was destroyed during Israel 's military offensive in Beit Lahia in northern Gaza on March 13 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> Palestinian painter Mayasa Youssef paints in the ruins of her studio in Deir Al-Balah in central Gaza on December 3 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> Also , the conflict escalated with Israel attacking Iran 's embassy in Damascus which resulted in Tehran using long-range weapons to strike Israel in retaliation . <p> Iran then went on to attack Israel one more time in retaliation to Hamas and Hezbollah leaders ' killings which were then responded by Tel Aviv via airstrikes on Iran . <p> The war has had a devastating effect on the socio-economic fabric of the occupied territories with the an alarming increase in poverty as reflected in an assessment carried out by the UN Development Programme ( UNDP ) and the UN Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia ( UNESCWA ) . <p> The flames of war , however , did not remain confined to the occupied territories but spread to neighbouring Lebanon which was invaded by the Israeli forces whose attacks displaced over one million people and pushed the death toll past 2,000 . <p> However , the fighting between Hezbollah and Israeli forces finally came to a halt after the two sides reached a ceasefire after more than 12 months -- a truce which still holds . <p> An overview of various facts and figures regarding Middle East situation amid ongoing conflict . -- UNHCR <p> Simultaneously , Yemen 's Houthi rebels also struck multiple cargoes vessels which they allege were doing business with Israel . <h> Assad 's ouster , Syrian revolution 's crescendo <p> December , like the rest of the year , also turned out to be eventful with a seismic shift in the Middle East 's geopolitics which saw the Syrian civil war -- which had been raging on for more than a decade -- reach its crescendo and culminating with the ouster of Bashar al-Assad whose family had ruled the country with an iron first for decades . <p> -- Reuters <p> Rebels , led by Abu Mohammed al-Golani 's Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , captured Damascus in a blistering offensive whose consequential reverberations will be felt in the time to come . <p> Damascus University students stand on the toppled statute of Syria 's late president Hafez al-Assad , father of Bashal al-Assad in Damascus , Syria on December 15 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> A person holds up the flag adopted by the new Syrian rulers amid celebrations following Bashar al-Assad 's ouster in Damascus , Syria on December 13 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> With Assad securing asylum in Moscow and Mohamed al-Bashir taking charge as Syria 's new interim prime minister until March 2025 , the country faces an uncertain future with millions of Syrians as well as regional stakeholders critically invested how the coming months play out . <h> An year of elections <h> Russia -- Putin stands strong <p> Russian President Vladimir Putin , in March , secured a landslide victory in the presidential polls via a record 87.8% vote . By winning another six-year term , Putin -- who came to power in 1999 -- is set to overtake Josef Stalin and become the country 's longest-serving leader in over 200 years . <p> Russian President Vladimir Putin speaks at his election campaign headquarters in Moscow on March 17 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> Though the polls were largely criticised by the United States , the United Kingdom , Germany and other western countries for lack of transparency and fairness , President Putin , it seems , is likely to rule Moscow in the foreseeable future . His role as president becomes even more crucial in light of the ongoing war with Ukraine and especially relations with the US with President-elect Donald Trump who will be taking over the White House next month . <p> Alexei Navalny 's death <p> People gather outside the Russian embassy , following the death of Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny on February 16 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> Putin 's win came in the backdrop of Alexei Navalny 's death . Navalny was arguably Putin 's fiercest domestic critic and political opponent died in February while being incarcerated at the Ik-3 " Polar Wolf " Arctic penal colony . <p> Although US President Joe Biden blamed Navalny 's death on Russian authorities , Putin to be precise , Moscow categorically dismissed the allegations . <h> Mexico gets first woman president <p> The US was n't the only country aiming for a woman head of state in 2024 as its neighbouring Mexico also got its first woman president in the June elections with Claudia Sheinbaum , a climate scientist and former mayor of Mexico City , securing a landslide victory against opposition candidate Xochitl Galvez . <p> Building up on the political capital of her mentor and outgoing president Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , Sheinbaum , as per a rapid sample count by Mexico 's electoral authority , managed to secure 58.3% to 60.7% of the vote . Whereas Galvez bagged between 26.6% to 28.6% of the vote . <p> Claudia Sheinbaum gestures to supporters after being declared the winner of the presidential election in the Zocalo plaza in Mexico City , Mexico on June 3 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> Furthermore , Sheinbaum 's Morena party and its allies managed to secure a super-majority in the lower house of Congress but fell short in the race for Senate supremacy . <p> The president faces an uphill battle with various challenges including but not limited to , relations with the US , issues such as migration , drug trafficking as well has domestic economic , political and law and order situation . <h> EU elections <p> The right-wing trend that the world has seen in recent months was also reflected in this year 's elections for the European Parliament with 720 seats up for grabs . The four-day polls saw EPP -- group of the European People 's Party ( Christian Democrats ) securing 26.11% of the votes to secure 188 seats . <p> They were followed by S&amp;D -- group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament -- in the second place with 18.89% of votes which brought them 136 seats . <h> South Africa <p> Nelson Mandela 's African National Congress ( ANF ) , although weakened after losing its parliamentary majority in May , survived the South African presidential polls with President Cyril Ramaphosa winning a second five-year term . <p> The ANC managed to win a little over 40% of vote ( 159 seats out of the total 400 ) and had to reach a power-sharing agreement with other parties , to form a government -- the first time the party had to do so in 30 years . <p> As well as the DA , the ANC 's partners in the coalition government include the socially conservative Inkatha Freedom Party and right-wing Patriotic Alliance , reported Reuters . <p> Under the arrangement , a DA candidate was made deputy speaker , whereas an ANC member was elected as parliament speaker . <h> India -- Narendra Modi 's hat-trick <p> India -- the world 's largest democracy by terms of sheer numbers -- also went to the polls in 2024 with more than 600 million voters casting their ballots in general elections , the largest in history , conducted in seven phases over a period of six weeks with the National Democratic Alliance ( NDA ) , led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi 's Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP ) contesting for 500+ Lok Sabha -- lower house of India 's parliament -- against the Indian National Congress ( INC ) led Indian National Developmental Inclusive Alliance ( INDIA ) . <p> Indian PM Narendra Modi gestures at BJP headquarters in New Delhi , India on June 4 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> Although the BJP fell short of what it achieved in the 2019 elections , it still managed to win 240 constituencies against the INC 's 99 . Together with its allies , the BJP 's numbers went up to 293 -- pushing it past the 272-seats mark that it needed to form a government . <p> Meanwhile , the INC-led INDIA numbers totalled at 230 . <p> A visual representation of seats secured by BJP and INC , along with their allies , in 2019 and 2024 polls . -- Reuters <p> This victory , though diminished compared to previous years , paved the way for PM Modi to become the country 's prime minister for a record third time . <p> With the right-wing Hindutva-oriented BJP at New Delhi 's helm once again for five years , it would be intriguing to see whether we would see the continuation of similar policies , both internal and external , as in the past 10 years of BJP rule or would this time things be different -- which again can go either way . <h> Iran -- Raisi 's death , advent of reformist Pezeshkian <p> The Iranian leadership in 2024 suffered a major blow due to untimely death of president Ebrahim Raisi in a helicopter crash in mountains due to bad weather near the Azerbaijan border . Among the victims were the-then foreign minister Hossein Amirabdollahian and other high officials . <p> The incident prompted elections in the country which were n't due until 2025 . <p> Several candidates participated in the ensuing closely contested July presidential polls , however , the primary contest was between reformist Masoud Pezeshkian and conservative Saeed Jalili . <p> Pezeshkian nevertheless emerged victorious in the second round of elections by securing 53.7% of the votes against Jalili 's 44.3% . Sworn in as Iran 's 9th president on July 30 , the 69-year-old heart surgeon faces multi-prong challenges ranging from economy to geopolitics . <h> UK -- Sun sets on Tory 's 14-year rule <p> The outgoing year ended up bringing major change at the 10th Downing Street with Britons ending the Conservative 's ( Tory ) 14-year rule in the United Kingdom . <p> Labour party leader and current UK PM Keir Starmer and his wife Victoria greet supporters in Downing Street , July 5 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> From the political turmoil that was set in motion in the aftermath of the Brexit which essentially ended up costing five Tory leaders their prime ministership -- David Cameron ( 2010-16 ) , Theresa May ( 2016-19 ) , Boris Johnson ( 2019-22 ) , Elizabeth Truss ( 2022-22 ) and Rishi Sunak ( 2022-24 ) -- coupled with socio-economic turbulence led to the voters giving an overwhelming majority to the Labour party in the general elections . <p> On July 4 , voting was held in 650 constituencies across the UK -- 543 in England , 57 in Scotland , 32 in Wales and 18 in Northern Ireland -- which saw Keir Starmer-led Labour winning 411 seats by bagging 33.7% -- 1.6% more from 2019 -- of the votes against the Conservative 's 121 seats via their share of 23.7% votes -- reflecting a 20% less from 2019 polls . <p> The Liberal Democrat party came in third with 72 seats ( 12.22% of votes ) . <p> PM Starmer now faces an uphill battle on various governance fronts with immigration , health sector , and worrying economic indicators along with various foreign policy challenges . <h> France -- Left pulls through against right-wing <p> Prompted by several domestic factors , French President Emmanuel Macron in June announced shock snap legislative elections with the far-right eyeing major win the polls . However , the French voters had other plans as they provided a left with a win in the July polls . <p> In the aftermath of the elections , the left-wing New Popular Front managed to bag 182 seats compared to 168 secured by President Macron-led centrist coalition Ensemble . Meanwhile , Marine Le Pen 's right-wing National Rally got 143 seats -- therefore leaving the French with a hung parliament as the ( NFP ) needed 289 seats for majority . <p> The political uncertainty that usually arises in such situations did n't spare France as the its far-right and left-wing lawmakers in December joined hands to successfully pass a no confidence motion with a majority 331 votes against Prime Minister Michel Barnier . <p> Barnier then resigned with President Macron appointing Francois Bayrou as the new premier , who like his predecessor faces an uncertain future and it would have to be seen whether the political uncertainty in Paris subsides or would continue to mar the French politics in the coming year . <h> Bangladesh -- students ' uprising and Hasina 's fall <p> Bangladeshi PM Sheikh Hasina , who has been in power for the last 15 years , swept the general elections -- with a low turnout of about 40% compared to 80% of the 2018 poll -- in January to win a fourth straight term in office by securing around 75% of the seats . <p> Hasina 's ruling Awami League won 222 seats out of the total 298 amid a boycott by the Bangladesh Nationalist Party ( BNP ) in what the US termed as not a free and fair election . <p> Her victory was short-lived as the outgoing year brought unforeseeable changes in Bangladeshi politics which saw PM Hasina fleeing to neighbouring India in the wake of deadly nationwide student-led protests , despite a brutal crackdown by the government . <p> Activists gather at the University of Dhaka 's Teacher Student Centre ( TSC ) , demanding the capital punishment for Bangladeshi former PM Sheikh Hasina in Dhaka , Bangladesh on August 13 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> People step on an image as they react to the resignation of Bangladeshi PM Sheikh Hasina , on August 5 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> People climb the statue of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman at the Bijoy Sarani area , as they celebrate the resignation of the PM Sheikh Hasina in Dhaka , Bangladesh on August 5 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> People shake hands with army personnel as they celebrate the resignation of Bangladeshi PM Sheikh Hasina in Dhaka , Bangladesh on August 5 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> Bangladeshi President Mohammed Shahabuddin ( left ) administers oath-taking ceremony of Nobel laureate Muhammad Yunus as the country 's head of the interim government in Bangladesh at the Bangabhaban , in Dhaka , Bangladesh on August 8 , 2024 -- Reuters <p> What began as a movement against government policies regarding job quotas quickly spiralled into much broader movement fuelled by underlying sociopolitical discontent among the masses . <p> After the dust settled following weeks of violence which -- as per the incumbent interim government resulted in around 1,500 deaths coupled with around 3,500 forced abductions -- saw Bangladesh 's Nobel Peace Prize winning economist Muhammad Yunus being sworn in as the head of the caretaker government . <p> Yunus has said that the elections in the country could be held by the end of 2025 provided that due electoral reforms are implemented before it . <h> Sri Lanka gets Marxist president <p> Millions of Sri Lankans went to the ballot multiple times in a short time span , first in September wherein the Island nation elected Anura Kumara Dissanayake as its president . <p> Sri Lankan President Anura Kumara Dissanayake addresses a gathering at the Presidential Secretariat , Colombo on September 23 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> However , the newly-elected president announced to hold a snap parliamentary election in less than two months in a bid to strengthen his position . <p> In November , the Dissanayaka , 55 , bagged a thumping win securing greater legislative power to pursue policies to cater country 's financial and economic woes , corruption and other pressing issues . <p> His Marxist-leaning coalition , the National People 's Power ( NPP ) which only had mere three seats in the 225-seat parliament , managed to win 159 seats via 6.8 million votes ( 61.56% ) in the November polls . <p> The polls saw a total of 11.8 million ballots being cast of which 11.14 million were deemed valid . <h> US -- Donald Trump 's return to White House <p> In what one might term as arguably the most consequential elections of the year ; the US presidential polls saw Republican candidate and the country 's 45th president Donald Trump beating his Democratic rival and incumbent Vice-President Kamala Harris in a stunning political comeback . <p> President-elect Donald Trump takes the stage to address supporters at his rally , at the Palm Beach County Convention Centre in West Palm Beach , Florida , US on November 6 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> By securing over 77.1 million votes , compared to democratic candidate 's 74.7 million , Trump is set to bring back his " Make America Great Again " approach to the White House after he is sworn-in as the country 's 47th president in January . <p> Ever since winning the elections , Trump has confirmed adopting a tariff-heavy approach regarding his foreign and economic policy . <p> Democratic presidential candidate and US Vice President Kamala Harris concedes election loss at Howard University in Washington , US on November 6 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> In November , the Republican said that he would impose 25% tariff on all products from China , Mexico and Canada whereas China would face an additional 10% tariff -- above any additional Tariffs -- for failure to tackle fentanyl smuggling . <p> With Trump at the helm in Washington with his " America first " approach , it would be interesting to see how the US relations with China , Russia and Iran pan out , especially in the light of ongoing wars in the Middle East and Ukraine the tensions revolving around the South China Sea and Beijing 's attitude towards Taiwan . <p> Trump in crosshairs <p> If the US presidential polls were already not charged enough , the election campaign saw now-President-elect Trump narrowly escaping an assassination bid during a rally in Pennsylvania . <p> Then Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump is assisted by the Secret Service after gunfire rang out during a campaign rally at the Butler Farm Show in Butler , Pennsylvania , US on July 13 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> The shooter , identified as 20-year-old Thomas Matthew Cook , managed to graze Trump 's year using a semiautomatic rifle before being gunned down by the Secret Service personnel . <p> The incident seemingly failed to rattle Trump who , after being swarmed by security personnel , emerged with his fist in the air saying " Fight ! Fight ! Fight ! " <p> In September , another assassination attempt was made on Trump 's life in West Palm Beach , Florida when Secret Service agents saw a gunman , later identified as Ryan Routh , pointing a rifle through a fence while the-then Republican candidate was playing golf . <p> The suspect was apprehended and later indicted . <h> Climate change -- hottest year <p> Climate change also remained a key point of concern throughout 2024 as the year , according to EU scientists is set t be the word 's warmest since records began . <p> The data from EU 's Copernicus Climate Change Service ( C3S ) for January-November showed that the ongoing year is the first one during which average global temperatures exceed 1.5 degrees Celsius above the 1850-1900 pre-industrial period . <p> A graph showing temperature records over the decades along with the projection of 2024 temperatures based on 10-month data . -- EU 's C3S <p> According to C3S : <p> November 2024 was the second-warmest November ever globally with an average ERA5 surface air temperature of 14.10 ? C , 0.73 ? C above the 1991-2020 average for November . <p> November 2024 was 1.62 ? C above the pre-industrial level . <p> From January to November 2024 , global-average temperature anomaly was recorded to be 0.72 ? C above the 1991-2020 average -- highest on record for this period . <p> Average temperature for Europe for November was 5.14 ? C -- 0.78 ? C above the 1991-2020 . <p> Mercury was also above average for northern Russia , across northeastern and southwestern Europe . <p> Temperatures were also above average in eastern Canada , central and eastern US , most of Mexico , northwest Africa , China , Australia and Pakistan . <h> At nature 's mercy <p> On one hand where global warming triggered heatwaves , droughts and deadly flooding , with the wet weather proving particularly dramatic , an unusually intense rainy season in West and Central Africa killed more than 1,500 people , according to the International Organisation of Migration ( IOM ) . <p> The month of September saw Hurricane Helene pounding the southeast US , Typhoon Krathon slamming into Taiwan and Storm Boris bringing floods and devastation to central Europe . <p> Typhoons Yagi and Bebinca left a trail of destruction in Asia . <p> Whereas in October , a Mediterranean storm lashed eastern Spain , triggering its worst floods in decades that killed more than 230 people . <p> In December Cyclone Chido devastated the French overseas territory of Mayotte . <h> A general overview of various climate change-related weather events around the world . -- EU 's C3S <h> COP29 <p> Leaders , representatives from around the world gathered in Azerbaijan 's Baku in November for the United Nations ' Conference of the Parties ( COP ) 29 climate summit for addressing inter alia climate financing , transition from fossil fuel , compensation for loss and damage etc . <p> The moot , after two weeks of intense negotiations , agreed on $300 billion a year climate financing by 2035 -- a figure termed significantly low by several developing countries . <p> Furthermore , the summit also resulted in a deal allowing countries to start establishing carbon credit to bring in funding to offset their emissions or trade them on a market exchange . <p> However , COP29 failed to carve out measures for nation to build last year 's ( COP28 ) pledge to transition away from fossil fuels and triple renewable energy capacity this decade . <h> G20 <p> Climate change , among other issues , also remained a key point of concern as the Group of 20 major economies converged in Brazil for the G20 summit where leaders from various countries called for cooperation on the aforesaid pressing issue . <p> Ukraine war , Middle East conflict , poverty and taxation were among the other issues that came under discussion . <h> Social media scrutiny <p> The 2024 was also the year of increased social media scrutiny with various platforms feeling the heat in multiple countries . In August , the Russian-born founder of the Telegram app , Pavel Durov , was arrested and charged with failing to curb extremist and illegal content on his network , which has 900 million users . <p> US tech mogul Elon Musk 's X , formerly Twitter , was banned for 40 days in Brazil in a legal tussle over disinformation with Brazilian Supreme Court judge Alexandre de Moraes terming the platform a danger to democracy . <p> A representational image of a cellphone showing X owner Elon Musk 's account against the backdrop of of Brazil 's flag . -- Reuters/File <p> The platform eventually became available to users in October after it agreed to pay $5.2 million in fines for flouting court decisions . <p> Popular video sharing platform TikTok was by the US to divest from from Bytedance , its Chinese owner , by January 19 or be banned . The US Supreme Court will assess the constitutionality of the law . <p> The platform is also being investigated by the EU over allegations it was used by Russia to sway the result of Romania 's later annulled presidential election first round , won by the far-right candidate Calin Georgescu . <h> Paris Olympics <p> Other than this year 's political turmoil , France also gained the world 's attention due to Paris 2024 which broke previous ticket records for both the Olympics and Paralympics selling 12 million tickets in in total . <p> Fireworks go off during closing ceremony of Paris 2024 Olympic in France on August 12 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> Around 9.5 million tickets were sold for the Olympics , whereas the number stood at 2.5 million for the Paralympics . <p> Paris 2024 Olympic medals ' table . -- Olympics website <p> Previously in the 2012 London Games , organisers sold 2.7 million tickets for the Paralympics but only 8.2 million tickets were sold for the Olympics . <p> The country also eclipsed their overall medal tally and ended up bagging 64 medals compared to 43 medals from Beijing 2008 . <p> However , the US -- tied with China with 40 golds -- topped the medals table in terms of overall success with 126 medals . <p> Beijing on the other hand managed to secure 91 medals in total . <h> Space race -- SpaceX 's ' catch ' <p> As various companies continue to compete to gain edge against one another in space technology , Elon Musk 's SpaceX reached a key milestone in October as it successfully " caught " its Starship 's first stage booster back to its Texas launch pad for the first time using giant mechanical arms . <p> As per Reuters , Super Heavy booster re-lit three of its 33 Raptor engines to slow its speedy descent back to SpaceX 's launch site , as it targeted the launch pad and tower it had blasted off from . The tower , taller than the Statue of Liberty at over 400 feet , was fitted with two large metal arms at the top . <p> With its engines roaring , the 233 feet ( 71 metres ) -tall Super Heavy booster fell into the launch tower 's enclosing arms , hooking itself in place by tiny , protruding bars under the four forward grid fins it had used to steer itself through the air . <p> Saad Bin Aziz Ahmed is a staffer at Geo.tv . He posts on X@Saadazizahmed <p> Disclaimer : The viewpoints expressed in this piece are the writer 's own and do n't necessarily reflect Geo.tv 's editorial policy . 
@@119240630 <p> A Dutch court in Amsterdam has convicted five men for their involvement in violent clashes between Israeli football fans and alleged pro-Palestinian protesters in November . <p> The Amsterdam district court found the men guilty of crimes ranging from assaulting fans of Maccabi Tel Aviv to inciting violence in online chat groups . <p> The most severe sentence was handed to Sefa O , who received six months in prison for his role in public violence against several individuals . <p> Videos from the incidents on November 8 showed Israeli fans chanting racist and anti-Arab songs , vandalising property , and burning a Palestinian flag , which led to violent skirmishes in the city . These clashes took place before and after a Europa League match between Maccabi Tel Aviv and Ajax . <p> Witnesses and local officials reported that the violence was instigated by Israeli fans . Despite the violent nature of the events , the prosecutor in the case emphasised that the attacks were not motivated by anti-Semitic sentiment but were influenced by the ongoing situation in Gaza . <p> Among the other convicted individuals , 24-year-old Umutcan A received a one-month sentence for assaulting fans and ripping a Maccabi Tel Aviv scarf from one of them . <p> A 22-year-old man , Abushabab M , faces a charge of attempted murder , though his case has been postponed for a psychiatric evaluation . His lawyer mentioned that he had grown up in a war zone in Gaza , and the young man was seen sobbing during the hearing . <p> The court also noted that six additional suspects , including three minors , are yet to be tried , and their cases will be heard behind closed doors . In total , at least 45 individuals are under investigation in connection with the violence , including actions by Israeli football fans . 
@@119240634 <h> How Trump 's return could redefine US politics in 2025 <p> US President-elect Donald Trump has high expectations from American voters after being elected to his second term in the White House , but the journey to achieving those goals is going to be a challenging one from the moment he is sworn into office on Jan 20 . <p> The economy was the number one issue facing Americans during Trump 's presidential campaign , specifically inflation and high prices at the grocery store . <p> " They 're going to be affording their groceries very soon , " Trump said at a ceremony honoring him as Time Magazine 's Person of the Year on Dec. 12 in New York City . <p> But that may not be the case , at least not immediately , according to Ed Hirs , an energy fellow at the University of Houston 's Department of Economics . <p> Trump has said he plans to slap tariffs of up to 25% on goods imported from the United States ' top trade partners , including Mexico and Canada . If he follows through on his campaign promises to raise import taxes , Hirs told Anadolu that the result may end up being higher prices for American consumers . <p> " This is the component of tariffs that the Trump administration does n't get . It 's not a one-way free money type of situation or game or strategic move , " said Hirs . " If I raise the tariffs on Mexican products by 25% and I 'm a US manufacturer who now has the ability to raise his prices 25% , that 's what will happen . " <p> Hirs said the United States , Mexico and Canada have a combined trade and investment price tag of about $1.8 trillion per year and pointed out that higher prices will go beyond food products and retail goods if Trump follows through on his tariff hikes to those countries . <p> " Canada is really important , because we import about 4 million barrels of oil a day from Canada . A 25% tariff on that is certainly going to hit every consumer across the nation , because , of course , the domestic producers will be able to raise their prices to match that , " Hirs said . <p> While Trump boasted on the campaign trail that " when I win , I will immediately bring prices down , starting on day one , " he seemed to temper those lofty expectations during his Time Magazine interview . <p> " It 's hard to bring things down once they 're up , " he said . " It 's very hard ... but I think that they will ... I think a better supply chain is going to bring them down . You know , the supply chain is still broken . " <p> Trump also believes the US immigration system is broken and has vowed to overhaul the country 's immigration laws starting with mass deportations and ending birthright citizenship . Republicans in Congress are also prioritizing border security measures and creating new laws as part of an expected budget immigration package . <p> Hirs told Anadolu that mass deportations of millions of undocumented migrants will likely have a far-reaching effect on the US economy because it would reduce the overall workforce in sectors that require manual labor or jobs that the average American does not want to do , such as lawncare work or dishwashing and bussing tables at restaurants . He pointed to jobs in the Permian Basin oil fields in western Texas as another example . <p> " Because out there , it 's difficult to get workers who can take being out in the 120-degree ( Fahrenheit/48.89 Celsius ) heat , you know , on a long summer day working on oil rigs ... and deporting them is going to instantly drive up the cost of finding replacement labor across the United States , " he said . <p> When it comes to relations with China , Trump is aiming to mend fences after admitting recently that the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020 had strained his relationship with President Xi Jinping during his first term in the Oval Office . <p> " We had a very good relationship until COVID , " Trump told reporters at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida , calling Xi his " friend " and saying that the Chinese president " is an amazing guy . " <p> " COVID did n't end the relationship , " Trump added . " But it was a bridge too far for me . " <p> A trade war erupted between the United States and China during Trump 's first term which uprooted global supply chains and hurt the American economy , since the US is China 's largest trading partner . Economies across the globe were affected by the US-China trade war and inflation skyrocketed worldwide . <p> But Trump has indicated that he plans to pick up where he left off by ending China 's most-favored-nation trading status and slapping tariffs on Chinese imports anywhere between 60% and 100% , which could initiate another trade war and disrupt the American economy once again . <p> " If Trump goes ahead with his policy , including the 25% tariffs for Mexico and Canada , there will be , and I 'm choosing my words very carefully here , a sharp increase in inflation like you 've never seen before , " said Hirs , who pointed out what happened during Trump 's first presidential term when the trade war escalated . <p> " As we know from the last time Trump attacked China with tariffs , China responded with not just higher tariffs on US goods , but stopped importing grain from the United States , " he continued . " If that were to occur like it did last time , I mean , last time , we had two years of crops pile up across the farm belt . " <p> The United States ' involvement with international conflicts is another issue that the Trump administration will have to address , including the Israeli-Palestinian war in the Gaza Strip . <p> Trump 's alliance to Israel is no secret , but with the genocide of more than 45,000 Palestinians from continued Israeli airstrikes since the conflict began on Oct. 7 , 2023 , the president-elect 's handling of the war will be placed under a microscope both domestically and internationally . <p> During his first term in office , Trump became the first Western leader to officially recognize Israel 's control over the Golan Heights , which it seized from Syria in 1967 , but now that Trump has secured a second term , some members of the Israeli government hope he will further recognize the country 's objective to annex settlements in the West Bank , which is currently occupied by Palestinians . <p> " I intend , with God 's help , to lead a government decision that says the government of Israel will work with the new administration of President Trump and the international community to apply Israeli sovereignty over Judea and Samaria , " said Israeli Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich at a recent news conference . <p> Hirs told Anadolu that the US has no obligation to step in to help either side . <p> " The tragedy of the Gaza Strip is that millions of people are truly facing famine , going from living in homes to living in tents on beaches and exposed to the elements without food , " he said . " This is carnage . This is war in the worst way , and I do n't know if the incoming Trump administration is inclined to help rebuild some sort of working society in Gaza . " <p> The Russia-Ukraine war will also be on Trump 's plate the moment he steps back into the White House and the president-elect told reporters that he plans to talk to both Russian President Vladimir Putin and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy about ending the war that has persisted for nearly three years . <p> " Got ta make a deal , " Trump said , referring to what both leaders needed to do to end the war . " It 's got to stop . I mean , there are cities that there 's not a building standing . It 's a demolition site . " <p> Like the Israeli-Palestinian conflict , Hirs said the US has no responsibility to intervene in the Russia-Ukraine war , and even though Trump said he would like for the two countries to come up with a cease-fire agreement , ultimately , the US does not have to get involved . <p> " The European Union is going to have to step up its defense of Ukraine , " said Hirs , who cautioned that if Trump removes the United States from involvement in major international affairs , including threatening to pull America 's membership from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization ( NATO ) , that could set the stage for other world superpowers to supersede US supremacy globally . <p> " If Trump does n't step up for leadership in this arena , that leaves a vacuum , and so Xi , Putin or the EU could step in , diminishing the United States ' role as a global leader , which could be a serious repercussion , " he said . <p> Another global interest that Trump must address is climate change , a topic that he has called a fabrication by Democrats . The focal point of this discussion is the Inflation Reduction Act ( IRA ) , a law that is expected to reduce US emissions by about 40% by 2030 , with an investment of more than $300 billion to reduce greenhouse gas emissions , initiate investments in clean energy and offer tax breaks for consumers and subsidies to manufacturers for products such as electric vehicles . <p> Trump has already threatened to repeal some of the measures passed in the bill , reinforcing his energy philosophy of " drill , baby , drill . " But since a lot of Republican congressional districts have already begun manufacturing projects to earn these tax credits , experts believe it will be difficult for Trump to roll back some of those clean energy policies for fear of a backlash from his Republican constituents , and with his appointment of Tesla CEO Elon Musk to head up the new Department of Government Efficiency ( DOGE ) , removing those types of tax breaks does not appear likely . <p> " One of the foundation principles of finance is that volatility hurts markets , and volatility is the enemy of Wall Street , and whipsaw policies do not help the private sector or society in general , " said Hirs . " The data I 've seen show that 80% of the spending for the IRA is in red ( Republican ) districts ... so you know , pulling that money out is what would have a serious impact on local economies that have been counting on that . " <p> " Nothing the Trump administration can do can reverse the energy transition , " he continued . " They can slow it , but they ca n't reverse it . " <p> Whether Trump will be successful in addressing all these issues is yet to be seen , but his agenda is stacked with critical domestic and international policies that need to be addressed immediately once he is inaugurated on Jan. 20 , and there is sure to be some type of scrutiny and backlash from his critics and allies alike , which is nothing new for the president-elect . <p> Ultimately , American voters will decide at the ballot box come the mid-term elections in 2026 , which will once again determine the structure of power between Republicans and Democrats in Congress . At that point , it will be clearer to evaluate whether Trump is dealing with these policies effectively . 
@@119240785 <p> Jerusalem - Israel 's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told lawmakers on Monday that " some progress " had been made in negotiations to secure the release of hostages held in Gaza , more than 14 months into the war . His comments in parliament come two days after Palestinian militant groups said in a rare joint statement that a deal for a ceasefire in the Gaza war and to exchange prisoners was " closer than ever . " In recent days , indirect negotiations between Israel and Hamas mediated by Qatar , Egypt , and the United States took place in Doha , rekindling hope of an agreement that has proven elusive . <p> " Everything we are doing can not be disclosed . We are taking actions to bring them back . I wish to say cautiously that there has been some progress , and we will not stop acting until we bring them all home , " Netanyahu said in parliament , on the same day he took the stand again at his ongoing corruption trial . <p> Hostage families have questioned the sincerity of government negotiation efforts , and critics have long accused Netanyahu of stalling in truce talks , prolonging the war partly to appease his far-right coalition partners . On Saturday , Hamas , and the leftist Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine said progress had been made . " The possibility of reaching an agreement ( for a ceasefire and prisoner exchange deal ) is closer than ever , provided the enemy stops imposing new conditions , " the groups said after they held talks in Cairo . 
@@119240786 <h> One Palestinian child killed an hour in Gaza : UN agency says <p> UNITED NATIONS - The Commissioner-General of the UN agency for Palestinian refugees ( UNRWA ) , Phillipe Lazzarini , has said that in Gaza , a child is killed every hour by Israel 's deadly bombardments on the besieged enclave . <p> " These are not numbers . These are lives cut short . Killing children can not be justified , " the UNRWA chief said in a post on X. <p> " Those who survive are scarred physically and emotionally , " he said . <p> " They are losing their lives , their futures and mostly their hope , " he added . The UNRWA chief also said that Israel has violated all the rules of war in the Gaza Strip , highlighting the ongoing violations in the enclave , where Israel has continued its attacks for the past 14 months . <p> " Escalation over the past 24 hours . More civilians are reported killed and injured , " he said . <p> " Attacks on schools and hospitals have been commonplace . The world must not become numb . All wars have rules . All of those rules have been broken . " <p> Lazzarini also emphasized that a cease-fire in Gaza is " long overdue , " calling for a halt to the attacks to protect civilians . <p> Israel launched a genocidal war on Gaza on Oct. 7 , 2023 that has killed more than 45,200 people , mostly women and children . <p> The International Criminal Court issued arrest warrants last month for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his former Defence Minister Yoav Gallant for war crimes and crimes against humanity in the enclave . Israel also faces a genocide case at the International Court of Justice for its war on Gaza . 
@@119240948 <h> EU and UK statements on awarding of punishments to 9th May culprits are " Absolutely Unacceptable " <p> Islamabad , Pakistan : As expected a Foreign , Commonwealth &amp; Development Office spokesperson of the United Kingdom on December 23 , 2024 , expressed concerns over the conviction of 25 vandals who attacked state institutions on May 9 , 2023 . <p> Since the Pakistan Foreign Office did not respond to any reaction over the European Union 's statement on the same issue , it was expected that a series of statements would now arrive from European countries in favor of former prime minister Imran Khan and his followers . <p> On December 22 , 2024 , the European Union expressed over the sentencing of twenty-five civilians by a military court on 21 December in Pakistan . EU indirectly threatened Pakistan to withdraw the EU 's Generalised Scheme of Preferences Plus ( GSP+ ) status if Pakistan would not reverse the decision against PTI 's followers . Pakistan 's Foreign Office did not respond to the EU 's strong statement . <p> The UK 's statement called on the Government of Pakistan to uphold its obligations under the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and withdraw convictions against followers of Imran Khan . This statement of the United Kingdom is yet to get a response from the Pakistan Foreign Office . <p> Suppose Pakistan had a proficient and swift team sitting in the Foreign Office of Pakistan . In that case , it should have responded with such a statement as ' a glaring attempt of the EU as well as of the UK government to interfere in domestic issues of Pakistan ' . Pakistan could respond to the EU and UK governments as follows : <p> " UK statement on Pakistan 's internal legal matter over the award of punishments to 9th May culprits is " Absolutely Unacceptable " . <p> The UK in an absurd and totally uncalled-for statement has raised objections over the trial of civilians in the military courts in Pakistan . Coming from a country which after the racial riots of 29 July 2024 in the Southport area of the UK , prosecuted over 200 people including three infants in a few days on the indirect charges of even posting on social media and handed down severe punishments after one of the worst crackdowns on its people following the riots . <p> All those who were convicted for their part in the violence were sent to prison within no time . Out of 54 convictions , 47 adults and 3 minors were given custodial sentences . Those who pleaded guilty were tried under a fast-track procedure ; the others were remanded in custody . <p> Penalties were particularly severe for those not directly involved in the riots , but who even incited violence on social media . In Northampton , a 26-year-old man who had called for the burning of hotels and law firms helping migrants was sentenced to three years and two months in prison . <p> What the UK did to its people through severe crackdown was way overboard but Pakistan never raised any objection over it , being the UK 's internal matter , rather provided full support in identifying the culprit who was involved in spreading fake news . <p> Now , it 's ludicrous on the part of UK authorities to falsely point to a fair and established legal process being followed in Pakistan . Since 9 May 2023 , 9th May culprits have been awaiting justice . After a lapse of over one and half years , Pakistan is concluding the long-due trials of the culprits against whom solid evidence and proof exist . The trials were conducted per the constitution and law of the land . <p> Needless to say , legal processes and laws vary from country to country as per the dictates of the ground . The trial of civilians in the military courts in Pakistan is a legally established process in Pakistan 's judicial system which takes its legal cover from the Constitution of Pakistan and the relevant laws of the land . <p> The UK will be better served by minding its own business , focusing on playing its long-due role over raising its voice on severe and worst violations of civil and political rights of the people of Gaza &amp; Palestine , it must stop Israel from committing genocide . <p> The UK must avoid meddling in internal legal matters of Pakistan that too on the behest of Goldsmiths as Pakistan will not listen to any such absurd and uncalled-for political meddling from another country " . 
@@119241015 <p> Defence Minister Israel Katz on Monday acknowledged that Israel had killed former Hamas chief Ismail Haniyeh in Tehran earlier this year , as he warned the military would " decapitate " the leadership of Yemen 's Huthi rebels . <p> " We will strike hard at the Huthis ... and decapitate their leadership -- just as we did with Haniyeh , ( Yahya ) Sinwar , and ( Hassan ) Nasrallah in Tehran , Gaza , and Lebanon , we will do so in Hodeida and Sanaa , " Katz said . <p> His remarks at an event at the defence ministry mark the first public acknowledgement that Israel was behind the late July killing of Haniyeh in the Iranian capital . <p> " Anyone who raises a hand against Israel will have his hand cut off , and the long arm of the IDF ( Israeli military ) will strike him and hold him accountable , " Katz said , according to a statement issued by the ministry . <p> Until now Israel had never admitted to killing Ismail Haniyeh , but Iran and Hamas had blamed it for the Hamas political leader 's death . <p> Haniyeh , who was seen as leading Hamas 's negotiation efforts for a ceasefire in Gaza , was killed in a guesthouse in Tehran on July 31 , reportedly by an explosive device that had been placed by Israeli operatives weeks before . <p> A day earlier , Ismail Haniyeh had attended the inauguration of Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian . <p> On September 27 , Israel killed Nasrallah in a Beirut bombing , which was followed by the killing of Haniyeh 's successor Sinwar on October 16 in Gaza . <p> Israeli officials say Sinwar masterminded the October 7 , 2023 attack by Hamas on Israel , which sparked the ongoing war in the Gaza Strip . <h> ABOUT US <p> ARY NEWS brings you 24/7 Live Streaming , Headlines , Bulletins , Talk Shows , Infotainment , and much more . Watch minute-by-minute updates of current affairs and happenings from Pakistan and all around the world ! 
@@119241022 <h> Year-Ender 2024 : Major International Events <p> The Earth while rotating on its route completing another year around the Sun punctuating with scores of events having impact over human lives in one or another way . Several incidents and events in the Year 2024 have profound impact over the world . <h> Year of Elections <p> The Year 2024 is marked by historic elections as voters in more than 60 countries -- representing almost 50 percent of the world 's population , went to the polls . Voters in Mexico and the United Kingdom picked new leaders , former US president Trump was elected to a second term in the White House . <p> The year witnessed elections in several countries including eight of the world 's 10 most populated nations including Bangladesh , Brazil , India , Indonesia , Mexico , Pakistan , Russia , and the United States . <p> In addition , the European Union held elections for the European Parliament in June . Around 4 billion voters -- approximately half of the world 's population -- were eligible to vote in elections this year . Thus 2024 can also be called the year of elections . <p> The earthquake struck at a depth of 10 kilometers ( 6 miles ) in the Noto Peninsula of Ishikawa prefecture , according to the United States Geological Survey ( USGS ) . <p> The Japan Meteorological Agency immediately issued a tsunami warning along coastal regions of western Japan , and the first waves were reported hitting the coast just over 10 minutes later . <p> Some of the first reports came from the city of Wajima in Ishikawa prefecture , which saw tsunami waves of around 1.2 meters . <p> The defense ministry dispatched 1,000 military personnel to help the rescue and recovery efforts . <p> Suzu city officials in Ishikawa told CNN that buildings have been damaged and there were reports of injuries . Police in the city said some people were trapped in damaged houses . <p> The powerful quake was followed by a series of strong aftershocks , according to the USGS . <p> Bangladesh general election(January-7) <p> The Awami League , led by Sheikh Hasina , won a fourth consecutive term amid protests by opposition parties and a large drop in voter turnout . <p> Independent candidates secured a total of 63 seats , the second highest instead of a political party , after Hasina 's Awami League , which won 222 seats , creating a problem of finding a parliamentary opposition . <p> Almost all the winning independent contenders were people who had been rejected by the AL for party ticket but were asked by the party leadership to stand as candidates to give the election a competitive veneer in front of the world . <p> " This is a bizarre outcome of a bizarre election , " a Bangladesh rights activist said . " Dummy candidates in a dummy election will now lead to a dummy parliament . " <p> Shunned by the Bangladesh Nationalist Party ( BNP ) -- the AL 's main political opponent -- which wanted the balloting held under a neutral entity instead of Hasina 's administration . <p> Japan Moon landing ( January 19 ) <p> Japan became the fifth country to achieve a soft landing on the Moon , with its SLIM mission . <p> Japan 's Smart Lander for Investigating Moon ( SLIM ) landed on the moon on January 19 , 2024 . Japan became the fifth country to achieve a moon landing after the United States , the former USSR ( Russia ) , China and India . <h> February 2024 <p> US airstrikes in Iraq and Syria ( Feb 02 ) <p> The US launches airstrikes on 85 targets in Iraq and Syria in response to a deadly drone attack on a US military base on February 02 . <p> The United States stated that it launched airstrikes against more than 85 targets linked to Iran 's Revolutionary Guards and militias it backs , in retaliation for a deadly attack on US troops . <p> Alexei Navalny dies in prison ( Feb 16 ) <p> Russian anti-corruption activist and politician Alexei Navalny , who achieved international recognition as one of the most prominent domestic critics of Russian President Vladimir Putin , died on 16 February at the age of 47 while in prison . <p> Russian Federal Penitentiary Service announced that Russian opposition activist and political prisoner Alexei Navalny died while serving a 19-year prison sentence in corrective colony FKU IK-3 , in the village of Kharp in the Russian Arctic . Navalny 's spokeswoman , Kira Yarmysh , confirmed it . <h> March 2024 <p> Vladimir Putin re-elected ( March 15 to 17 polls ) <p> March 15 to 17 : Vladimir Putin was re-elected for a fifth term in the 2024 Russian presidential election , held from March 15 to 17 , 2024 . <p> President Vladimir Putin extended his reign over Russia in a landslide election whose outcome was never in doubt , declaring his determination to advance deeper into Ukraine . <p> After the crackdown on dissent , it was clear from the earliest returns that Putin 's nearly quarter-century rule would continue with a fifth term that grants him six more years . <p> Deadly Moscow gun attack ( March-22 ) <p> Four gunmen carried out the March 22 attack on Crocus City Hall near Moscow , which left 145 people dead and more than 500 others wounded . Islamic State affiliate ISIS-K claimed responsibility , while Moscow also blamed Ukraine and the West for the deadliest attack in Russia in two decades . <p> Twenty people , including the four gunmen , were eventually arrested in connection with the attack , Russia 's FSB chief said in May . <p> The four additional arrests were made in southern Russia 's republic of Ingushetia , according to the Mash Telegram channel , which is thought to have links to Russia 's security services . <p> The men were accused of helping a fifth suspect , Batyr Kulayev , flee . Kulayev allegedly provided weapons to the gunmen . <p> Russian media reported in November that Kulayev was one of four new defendants in the Crocus terrorist case . Kulayev and a second man remain at large , while the two others were transferred from Ingushetia to pre-trial detention in Moscow . <p> UNSC passes Gaza ceasefire resolution ( March 25 ) <p> The UN Security Council passed a resolution calling for an " immediate ceasefire " in Gaza and demanding the immediate and unconditional release of all hostages . <p> The UNSC adopted a resolution aimed at reaching a comprehensive ceasefire deal in three phases to end the war in Gaza . The UN Secretary-General also called for a swift end to the Israeli war in Gaza and the release of all hostages . <p> The United Nations emphasized that a two-State solution remains the " only path to lasting peace " in the Middle East . <p> A surprise attack by Palestinian group Hamas on Israel , combining gunmen breaching security barriers and a barrage of rockets fired from Gaza , was launched at dawn of October 07 , 2022 during a Jewish holiday . <p> The attack came 50 years and a day after Egyptian and Syrian forces launched an assault during the Jewish holiday of Yom Kippur in an effort to retrieve territory Israel had occupied during a brief conflict in 1967 . <h> April 2024 <p> Israeli attack on Iranian embassy in Damascus ( April-1 ) <p> Sixteen people were killed in an Israeli attack on the Iranian embassy in Damascus on April 1 , seven of Iran 's military advisers among them , including three senior commanders . <p> Israeli warplanes bombed Iran 's embassy in Syria in a strike that Iran said killed seven of its military advisers , including three senior commanders , marking a major escalation in Israel 's war with its regional adversaries . <p> Reuters reporters at the site in the Mezzeh district of Damascus saw emergency workers clambering atop rubble of a destroyed building inside the diplomatic compound , adjacent to the main Iranian embassy building . Emergency vehicles were parked outside . <p> Iran 's ambassador to Syria said the strike hit a consular building in the embassy compound and that his residence was on the top two floors . <p> Iran 's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps said in a statement that seven Iranian military advisers died in the strike including Mohammad Reza Zahedi , a senior commander in its Quds Force , which is an elite foreign espionage and paramilitary arm . <h> May 2024 <p> Palestine granted seat in UNGA <p> The United Nations General Assembly passes a resolution to grant the State of Palestine the right to be seated among member states in alphabetical order . This came into effect from the UN General Assembly session on 10 September 2024 . <p> Solar Storm <p> A series of solar storms and intense solar flares impact the Earth , rated G5 by NOAA , creating aurorae at more southerly and northerly latitudes than usual . This was the first G5 storm since 2003 . <p> The May 2024 storms were a series of powerful solar storms with extreme solar flares and geomagnetic storm components that occurred from 10 -- 13 May 2024 during solar cycle 25 . The geomagnetic storm was the most powerful to affect Earth since March 1989 , and produced aurorae at far more equatorial latitudes than usual in both the Northern and Southern Hemispheres . <p> On 8 May 2024 , a solar active region produced powerful solar flares and launched several coronal mass ejections towards Earth . On 14 May , as the most active region rotated beyond the sun 's western limb , the strongest flare occurred , causing strong radio blackouts <p> ICC prosecutor seeks arrest warrants of Netanyahu <p> The chief prosecutor of the International Criminal Court seeks arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Hamas leader in Gaza Yahya Sinwar over alleged war crimes . <p> Donald Trump found guilty <p> A Manhattan jury found Donald Trump guilty of all 34 counts of falsifying business records in his hush money criminal trial , an unprecedented and historic verdict that makes him the first former president in US history to be convicted of a felony . <p> Judge Juan Merchan set a sentencing hearing for July 11 . Prosecutors accused Trump of taking part in an illegal conspiracy to undermine the integrity of the 2016 presidential election and an unlawful plan to suppress negative information , which included concealing a hush money payment to an adult film star . <p> A felony conviction of a former president or party frontrunner is unprecedented , but Trump , who is the 2024 presumptive GOP nominee , can still run for office . Trump called the jury 's decision a " disgrace " and said the " real verdict " will come during the presidential election on November 5 . <p> Iran 's President Ebrahim Raisi dies in air crash ( May 19 ) <p> Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi and seven other people were killed on 19 May when the helicopter they were travelling in came down near the border with Azerbaijan . <p> There were seven people accompanying the president who also died in the crash , according to the commander-in-chief of the Islamic Revolution Guard Corps ( IRGC ) , Major General Hossein Salami . <p> They included Iran 's Foreign Minister , Hossein Amir-Abdollahian , as well as the governor of East Azerbaijan province , Malek Rahmati , and Tabriz 's Friday prayer leader , Ayatollah Mohammad Ali Al-e Hashem , a senior Shia cleric who was also Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei 's official representative in East Azerbaijan . <p> South Africa 's 2024 national election on May 29 , marks the first time the African National Congress , the ruling party since 1994 ( when the first election by universal suffrage was held after the fall of apartheid ) , was unable to win a majority in the National Assembly and has to form a government with other political parties . <h> June <p> Julian Assange freed <p> WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange was freed from prison in the United Kingdom and traveled home to Australia after he agreed to plead guilty to a single charge of breaching the espionage law in the United States . <p> Assange , 52 , pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to obtain and disclose classified US national defence documents , according to a filing in the US District Court for the Northern Mariana Islands . <p> He was freed from the UK 's high-security Belmarsh prison and taken to the airport , from where he flew out of the country . Assange appeared at a court in Saipan , a US Pacific territory , where he was sentenced to 62 months of the time he had already served . <p> " Julian Assange is free , " WikiLeaks said in a statement on X. " He left Belmarsh maximum security prison on the morning of 24 June , after having spent 1901 days there . He was granted bail by the High Court in London and was released at Stansted airport during the afternoon , where he boarded a plane and departed the UK . " <p> Indian General Election ( 19 April to 1 June ) <p> General elections were held in India from 19 April to 1 June 2024 in seven phases , to elect 543 members of the Lok Sabha ( Lower House ) . Votes were counted and the result was declared on 4 June to form the 18th Lok Sabha . <p> In the Lok Sabha , Prime Minister Narendra Modi 's BJP loses its outright majority , but its electoral alliance , the National Democratic Alliance , retains its majority in the parliament . <p> On 7 June 2024 , Narendra Modi confirmed the support of 293 MPs to the president of India . This marked Modi 's third term as prime minister and his first time heading a coalition government , with the Telugu Desam Party of Andhra Pradesh and Janata Dal ( United ) of Bihar emerging as two main allies . <p> 2024 Hajj Disaster : <p> More than 1,300 people died due to extreme heat during the annual Hajj pilgrimage in Makkah , Saudi Arabia , where temperatures soared beyond 50 degrees Celsius ( 122 degrees Fahrenheit ) . <p> Unmitigated exposure to extreme heat can cause a range of health harms including organ failure and even death . Heat stress is believed to have caused many of the deaths , a completely preventable event . <p> There is the need for stronger heat protection measures , especially for groups vulnerable to heat stress like older people and people with disabilities . <h> July 2024 <p> UK General Election ( July 4 ) <p> Keir Starmer led the Labour Party to a landslide victory , returning the party to government for the first time in 14 years , and Starmer became the prime minister of the United Kingdom . <p> The Labour Party won 412 seats , meaning the Conservative Party lost power for the first time in 14 years and suffered one of the biggest defeats in its history . <p> Masoud Pezeshkian elected president of Iran ( July 5 ) <p> Reformist candidate Masoud Pezeshkian won Iran 's presidential election runoff , beating rival Saeed Jalili by promising to reach out to the West and ease enforcement on the country 's mandatory headscarf law after years of sanctions and protests . <p> Pezeshkian promised no radical changes to Iran 's Shiite theocracy in his campaign and has long held Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei as the final arbiter of all matters of state in the country . <p> A vote count by authorities put Pezeshkian as the winner with 16.3 million votes to Jalili 's 13.5 million in the election . Overall , Iran 's Interior Ministry said 30 million people voted in an election held without internationally recognized monitors , representing a turnout of 49.6% -- higher than the historic low of the June 28 first round vote but lower than other presidential races . <p> Supporters of Pezeshkian , a heart surgeon and longtime lawmaker , entered the streets of Tehran and other cities before dawn to celebrate as his lead grew over Jalili , a hard-line former nuclear negotiator . <p> Pezeshkian later traveled to the mausoleum of the late Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini , the leader of the 1979 revolution , and addressed journalists . <p> " In this election , I did n't give you false promises . I did not lie , " Pezeshkian said . " It 's been many years after the revolution that we come to the podium , we make promises and we fail to fulfill them . This is the biggest problem we have . " <p> Attempt to assassinate Donald Trump ( July 13 ) <p> Donald Trump 's ear was injured in a failed assassination attempt on July 13 . Former US president was injured when a gunman opened fire at his campaign rally in Pennsylvania , killing one spectator and bloodying Trump 's ear . <p> The shooter , who appeared to take an elevated position on a rooftop outside the venue , is dead . Another two spectators were critically injured . Trump 's campaign said he was safe . <p> The FBI identified the shooter as 20-year-old Thomas Matthew Crooks of Bethel Park , Pennsylvania . A motive was not immediately clear . <p> Trump was about six minutes into his remarks in western Pennsylvania when gunfire rang out . He grabbed his right ear and then got to the floor , where he was immediately swarmed by secret service agents who piled on top of him to protect him . <p> The agents then helped Trump to his feet , surrounded him and rushed him offstage to a waiting vehicle . <p> Bangladesh Students Protest , fall of Sheikh Hasina <p> Protests began in Bangladesh in July over a controversial government job-quota system and transformed into nationwide unrest following a harsh crackdown by authorities . Nearly 300 people were killed within weeks in one of the most violent phases of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina 's 15-year rule . <p> On July 21 , the Supreme Court scaled back the quota , which reserved one-third of government jobs for descendants of 1971 Bangladesh Liberation War veterans . <p> But anti-protest rhetoric by Sheikh Hasina aided by police crackdown and attacks on protesters by groups affiliated with the ruling Awami League galvanised a mass movement against the Hasina government . <p> On August 4 , nearly 100 people were killed in a police crackdown , causing outrage . A day later , Hasina was forced to resign and flee the country , ending her 15-year rule . <p> Joe Biden quits Presidential race ( July 21 ) <p> Incumbent United States President Joe Biden ended his candidacy in the 2024 United States presidential election . <p> He announced his withdrawal from the presidential election and endorsed Vice President Kamala Harris as his replacement . Harris subsequently received the Democratic nomination , but ultimately lost the election to former President Donald Trump . <p> Biden had announced that he would run for re-election in the 2024 presidential election on April 25 , 2023 , with Harris again as his running mate . Biden had the support of almost all major donors in Democratic Party politics and went on to win an overwhelming majority of delegates in the 2024 Democratic Party presidential primaries . He was already considered the presumptive nominee before the primaries were over . <p> However , public concerns as well as concerns in his Democratic Party about Biden 's age and health had emerged during his presidency , particularly about his fitness for the office and ability to carry out a second term . <p> These concerns increased after the first 2024 presidential debate , between Biden and Republican Party candidate Donald Trump on June 27 , 2024 . Biden 's performance was widely criticized , with commentators noting he frequently lost his trail of thought and gave meandering answers , had a faltering appearance , spoke with a hoarse voice , and failed to recall statistics or coherently express his opinion on several occasions . Biden subsequently faced calls to withdraw from the race from fellow Democrats . <p> Biden repeatedly insisted for weeks after the debate that he would remain a candidate , despite numerous calls for him to withdraw . However , on July 21 , 2024 , he withdrew his candidacy via a signed letter posted on his personal Twitter account . <p> Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh assassinated in Tehran ( July 31 ) <p> Hamas 's political chief Ismail Haniyeh was assassinated in Iran 's capital , Tehran , according to a statement from the group that runs the besieged and bombarded Gaza Strip , which held Israel responsible for his killing . <p> Haniyeh and one of his bodyguards were killed in the early hours of Wednesday after the building where they were staying was struck . <p> The news of the assassination sparked anger across Palestine and stoked fears about a wider regional conflict in the wake of Israel 's war on Gaza . <p> Israel kept silence over the Hamas leader 's killing in Tehran . <p> Israel began attacking Gaza , promising to eliminate Hamas and kill its leaders after the group launched an attack on October 7 in southern Israel that led to the killing of some 1,139 people and more than 200 being taken captive . <h> August 2024 <p> American -- Russian prisoners swap ( August 1 ) <p> Twenty-six individuals released from Ankara Esenboga Airport in the largest prisoner exchange between the United States and Russia since the Cold War , involving the release of twenty-six people . <p> Following at least six months of secret multilateral negotiations , Russia and Belarus released 16 detainees while the US , Germany , Poland , Slovenia , and Norway collectively released eight detainees and two minors . Among those released were three American citizens : Evan Gershkovich , a reporter for The Wall Street Journal , Alsu Kurmasheva , a journalist for Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty , and Paul Whelan , a former US Marine ; Gershkovich and Whelan had each received 16 year sentences for espionage . <p> The prisoner exchange , which has been described as one of the most complex in history , took place at Ankara Esenboga Airport in Turkey , whose government served as a mediator between the parties . <p> Under the terms of the agreement , the eight Russian nationals and two minors were transferred to Russia , while thirteen of the prisoners held by Russia and Belarus were released to Germany and three to the United States . Both the US and Russia hailed the prisoner swap as a significant diplomatic victory . <p> WHO declared mpox a public health emergency ( August 14 ) <p> The World Health Organization ( WHO ) declared mpox ( monkeypox ) a public health emergency of international concern for the second time in two years , following the spread of the virus in African countries . <p> Mpox is an infectious disease caused by the monkeypox virus . It can cause a painful rash , enlarged lymph nodes , and fever . The virus spreads through contact with infected persons or animals <p> The WHO has declared mpox a public health emergency in Africa and the more dangerous variant has spread to countries outside the African continent . <p> Thailand PM Dismissed <p> The Constitutional Court of Thailand dismissed Prime Minister Srettha Thavisin for illegally appointing a minister to his cabinet who had a prison sentence . Paetongtarn Shinawatra succeeded him as Prime Minister of Thailand . <p> Thailand 's parliament voted for Paetongtarn Shinawatra to become the country 's youngest prime minister , thrusting another member of the kingdom 's most famed and divisive political dynasty into the top job . <p> The vote to install the 37-year-old daughter of ousted former leader Thaksin Shinawatra came two days after Thailand 's Constitutional Court removed another prime minister from office , in a surprise decision that plunged the kingdom into further political uncertainty and raised fresh concern over the erosion of democratic rights . <p> Paetongtarn won 319 votes in the House of Representatives , after being nominated as the sole candidate by her Pheu Thai party 's ruling coalition to replace outgoing prime minister Srettha Thavisin . <h> September 2024 <p> Brazil Court blocked social media platform X ( September 02 ) <p> The Brazilian Supreme Court upheld a decision to block the social media platform X , formerly known as Twitter , over what the Brazilian government determined to be rampant disinformation and Elon Musk 's failure to name a legal representative to the country . <p> The judges voted unanimously in favour of the measure , meaning the ban will stay in place . <p> X has been suspended in Brazil after it failed to appoint a new legal representative in the country before a court deadline . <p> It was the development in a feud between Supreme Court Justice Alexandre de Moraes and X 's owner Elon Musk which began in April , when the judge ordered the suspension of dozens of accounts for allegedly spreading disinformation . <p> The Supreme Court later in October said it is lifting ban on the X. In his decision , Justice Alexandre de Moraes said that he authorised the " immediate return " of X 's activities in the country after it paid hefty fines and blocked accounts accused of spreading misinformation . <p> According to a statement , the site has paid fines totalling 28 million reais ( $5.1m ; ? 3.8m ) and agreed to appoint a local representative , as required by Brazilian law . <p> Sri Lanka Presidential Election ( September 23 ) <p> Left leaning candidate Anura Kumara Dissanayake won Sri Lanka 's presidential election held on September 23 , the Election Commission announced , after voters rejected the old political guard that has been widely accused of pushing the South Asian nation into economic ruin . <p> Dissanayake , whose pro-working class and anti-political elite campaigning made him popular among youth , secured victory over opposition leader Sajith Premadasa and incumbent President Ranil Wickremesinghe , who took over the country two years ago after its economy hit bottom . <p> Dissanayake received 5,740,179 votes , followed by Premadasa with 4,530,902 . <p> Two years ago , tens of thousands of Sri Lankans rose up against the government and forced president Gotabaya Rajapaksa to flee the country , who resigned on 14 July 2022 . This triggered an indirect presidential election via Parliament a week later , to elect a successor according to the Article 40 of the Constitution . <p> Ranil Wickremesinghe , who had been appointed as Prime Minister by Rajapaksa just two months earlier , received the most votes and sworn in as the 9th President of Sri Lanka on 21 July 2022 . <p> The election was crucial as the country seeks to recover from the worst economic crisis in its history and the resulting political upheaval . <p> " This achievement is not the result of any single person 's work , but the collective effort of hundreds of thousands of you . Your commitment has brought us this far , and for that , I am deeply grateful . This victory belongs to all of us , " Dissanayake said in a post on X. <p> Hurricane Helene landfall in US <p> Hurricane Helene was a devastating tropical cyclone that caused widespread catastrophic damage and numerous fatalities across the Southeastern United States in late September 2024 . It was the strongest hurricane on record to strike Florida , the deadliest Atlantic hurricane since Maria in 2017 , and the deadliest to strike the mainland U.S. since Katrina in 2005 . <p> The second major hurricane of the 2024 Atlantic hurricane season , Helene began forming on September 22 as a broad low-pressure system in the western Caribbean Sea . September 24 , the disturbance had consolidated enough to become a tropical storm as it approached the Yucat ? n Peninsula , receiving the name Helene from the National Hurricane Center . <p> Weather conditions led to the cyclone 's intensification , and it became a hurricane early on September 25 . More pronounced and rapid intensification ensued as Helene traversed the Gulf of Mexico the following day , reaching Category 4 intensity on the evening of September 26 . Late on September 26 , Helene made landfall at peak intensity in the Big Bend region of Florida , near the city of Perry , with maximum sustained winds of 140 mph ( 220 km/h ) . <p> In advance of Helene 's landfall , states of emergency were declared in Florida and Georgia due to the significant impacts expected , including very high storm surge along the coast and hurricane-force gusts as far inland as Atlanta . <p> The storm caused catastrophic rainfall-triggered flooding , particularly in western North Carolina , East Tennessee , and southwestern Virginia , and spawned numerous tornadoes . Helene also inundated Tampa Bay , breaking storm surge records throughout the area . As of November 28 , at least 234 deaths and $113.5 billion in damage have been attributed to the storm . <p> Hurricane Helene caused widespread destruction across the region , especially western North Carolina . Some estimates put the cost at $200 billion , which would make it the costliest hurricane in US history . <p> Hassan Nasrallah killed in Israeli air strike ( September 27 ) <p> The Israeli Air Force bombed the central headquarters of Hezbollah in Beirut , killing several people , including Hassan Nasrallah , the longtime leader of Hezbollah . It was a massive Israeli air attack on Beirut on September 27 evening . <p> Nasrallah , who reached the peak of his popularity after the war with Israel in 2006 , was seen as a hero by many , not just in Lebanon but beyond . Standing up to Israel is what defined him and his group , Hezbollah , for years . <p> Nasrallah continued to enjoy support from his loyal base -- mainly Lebanon 's Shia Muslims -- who revered him as a leader and religious figurehead . <h> October 2024 <p> Iran attacked Israel ( October 1 ) <p> Iran launched about 200 ballistic missiles at targets in Israel , in at least two waves , the largest attack during the ongoing Iran -- Israel conflict . It was the second direct attack by Iran against Israel , the first being the April 2024 strikes . <p> Iran said that the attack was an act of " self-defense " in retaliation for Israel 's assassinations of Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh in Tehran , Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah , and IRGC general Abbas Nilforoushan . The attacks , while more successful at saturating Israeli air defenses than in April , did not appear to cause extensive damage . <p> The area of the Nevatim Airbase in the Negev was hit by 20 to 32 missiles , which damaged a hangar and taxiway . Several other missiles hit the Tel Nof Airbase , a school in the nearby town of Gedera , and an area north of Tel Aviv around the headquarters of the Israeli intelligence services Mossad . Israeli media were barred from publishing the exact locations of impacts . <p> Yahya Sinwar killed in Israeli attack ( October 16 ) <p> The Israeli military announced the killing of Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar by its forces in southern Gaza the previous day . <p> The Israeli military said that its troops from the Southern Command eliminated Yahya Sinwar , the leader of the Hamas organisation on October 16 , in an operation in the southern Gaza Strip . <p> " The dozens of operations carried out by the IDF and the ISA ( Shin Bet internal security agency ) over the last year , and in recent weeks in the area where he was killed , restricted Yahya Sinwar 's operational movement as he was pursued by the forces and led to his elimination , " the military added . <p> Israel accuses Sinwar , 61 , of being the mastermind of the October 7 , 2023 attack on Israel that triggered the ongoing war , along with Hamas 's military chief Mohammed Deif . <p> The Israeli military has said Deif was targeted in a strike earlier this year though the Palestinian group has not confirmed it . <p> Sinwar in August replaced Hamas 's former chief Ismail Haniyeh , who was martyred in Iran on July 31 . <p> Israel 's military offensive in Gaza has killed 42,438 people , a majority of them civilians , according to the Hamas-run territory 's health ministry . The UN acknowledges the figures to be reliable . <h> November 2024 <p> United States presidential election ( November 05 ) <p> Republican Donald Trump , with his running mate JD Vance , elected in the November 5 election for a second non-consecutive term , the first candidate to be elected so since Grover Cleveland in 1892 . <p> Trump defeated incumbent Vice President of the United States and Democratic Party candidate Kamala Harris with a convincing majority . <p> Donald Trump had won his first presidential term in 2016 to defeat former first lady Hillary Clinton . Democrat Joe Biden had defeated Trump in the 2020 presidential election . <p> Assassination attempts , criminal convictions and a change in political opponent could n't stop Donald Trump winning the 2024 US election . <p> Trump swept to a decisive victory after winning several crucial battleground states . <p> The former 45th president of the United States will become the 47th at inauguration at the US Capitol next month on January 20 . <p> ICC arrest warrant against Israeli PM ( November 21 ) <p> The International Criminal Court ( ICC ) issued arrest warrants against Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , former Israeli Defense Minister Yoav Gallant , and Hamas military leader Mohammed Deif on November 21 , 2024 over accusations of war crimes committed during Israel 's Gaza War . <p> Following an investigation of war crimes and crimes against humanity , the ICC issued arrest warrants for Benjamin Netanyahu , and Yoav Gallant , over charges of the war crime of starvation as a method of warfare and the crimes against humanity of murder , persecution , and other inhumane acts during the Israel -- Hamas war . The warrant against Netanyahu is the first against the head of government of a major Western ally . <p> ICC 's 124 member states are now required to arrest Netanyahu and Gallant if they enter their territory , including France and the United Kingdom . <p> The ICC also issued an arrest warrant for Hamas military commander Mohammed Deif , who was reportedly killed in an Israeli airstrike on 13 July 2024 . An additional possible effect these arrest warrants have is that additional warrants may be issued against Israeli senior Israeli military officers fighting in Gaza . <h> December 2024 <p> South Korea Martial Law bid , President Impeachment ( Dec 3- Dec 14 ) <p> South Korean lawmakers on December 14 impeached President Yoon Suk Yeol over his failed martial law bid . <p> The vote capped more than a week of intense political drama in the democratic South following Yoon 's failed attempt to impose martial law on December 3 . <p> Hundreds of thousands of people took to the streets of the capital Seoul in rival rallies for and against Yoon on Saturday . <p> In a televised address following the parliamentary vote , Yoon said he would " step aside " but did not apologise for his actions . <p> Yoon is suspended from office while South Korea 's Constitutional Court deliberates on the vote , with Prime Minister Han Duck-soo taking over as interim president . <p> The court has 180 days to rule on Yoon 's future and Chief Justice Moon Hyung-bae vowed to hold " a swift and fair trial " . <p> If the court backs his removal , Yoon will become the second president in South Korean history to be successfully impeached . <p> Two hundred votes were needed for the impeachment to pass , and opposition lawmakers needed to convince at least eight parliamentarians from Yoon 's conservative People Power Party ( PPP ) to switch sides . <p> A Seoul police official told AFP at least 200,000 people had massed outside parliament in support of removing the president . <p> On the other side of Seoul near Gwanghwamun square , police estimated 30,000 had rallied in support of Yoon , blasting patriotic songs and waving South Korean and American flags . <p> Yoon Suk Yeol shocked the nation on December 03 when he gave the military sweeping emergency powers to root out what he called " anti-state forces " and overcome obstructionist political opponents . <p> He rescinded the order six hours later after parliament defied military and police cordons to vote unanimously against his decree . But the move plunged Asia 's fourth-largest economy into its greatest political crisis in decades , threatening to shatter South Korea 's reputae as a democracy success story . <p> Anti-government rebels declared that they had taken Damascus in a lightning offensive on Sunday 08 December , sending President Bashar al-Assad fleeing and ending five decades of Baath rule in Syria . <p> Residents in the Syrian capital were seen cheering in the streets , as the rebel factions heralded the departure of Assad , saying : " We declare the city of Damascus free " . <p> Assad 's departure comes less than two weeks after the Islamist Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) group launched its campaign challenging more than five decades of rule by the Assad family . <p> " After 50 years of oppression under Baath rule , and 13 years of crimes and tyranny and ( forced ) displacement ... We announce today the end of this dark period and the start of a new era for Syria , " the rebel factions said on Telegram . <p> Prime Minister Mohammed al-Jalali said he was ready to cooperate with " any leadership chosen by the Syrian people " . <p> The head of the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , Rami Abdel Rahman , told AFP : " Assad left Syria via Damascus international airport before the army security forces left " the facility . <p> HTS said their fighters broke into a jail on the outskirts of the capital , announcing an " end of the era of tyranny in the prison of Sednaya " , which has become a by-word for the darkest abuses of Assad 's era . <p> The rapid developments in Damascus come only hours after HTS said they had captured the strategic city of Homs , on the way to the capital . <p> Homs lies about 140 kilometres ( 85 miles ) from the capital and was the third major city seized by the rebels , who began their advance on November 27 , reigniting a years-long war that had become largely dormant . <p> Monitoring events in Damascus , the Britain-based Observatory confirmed " the doors of the infamous ' Sednaya ' prison ... have been opened for thousands of detainees who were imprisoned by the security apparatus throughout the regime 's rule " . <p> Assad has for years been backed by Lebanese Hezbollah , whose forces " vacated their positions around Damascus " . <p> Leading up to the rebels ' entry into Damascus , the Islamist-led alliance had wrested away control of Aleppo and Hama and also reached Homs , known during the early years of the civil war as the " capital of the revolution " . <p> The Observatory said Daraa , the cradle of the 2011 uprising , also fell from government control , while the army said it was " redeploying and repositioning " in the province and nearby Sweida . <p> An Iraqi security source told AFP that Baghdad had allowed in hundreds of Syrian soldiers , who " fled the front lines " , through the Al-Qaim border crossing . A second source put the figure at 2,000 troops , including officers . <p> HTS is rooted in the Syrian branch of Al-Qaeda . Proscribed as a terrorist organisation by Western governments , it has sought to soften its image in recent years , and told minority groups living in areas they now control , not to worry . Since the offensive began , at least 826 people , mostly combatants but also including 111 civilians , have been killed , the Observatory said . <p> Assad after fleeing from Damascus reached Russia . He was for years propped up by Russia and Iran , while Turkey historically backed the opposition . <p> Israel acknowledges killing Haniyeh in Tehran <p> DEC 23 : Defence Minister Israel Katz on Monday acknowledged that Israel had killed former Hamas chief Ismail Haniyeh in Tehran earlier this year , as he warned the military would " decapitate " the leadership of Yemen 's Houthi rebels . <p> " We will strike hard at the Houthis ... and decapitate their leadership -- just as we did with Haniyeh , ( Yahya ) Sinwar , and ( Hassan ) Nasrallah in Tehran , Gaza , and Lebanon , we will do so in Hodeida and Sanaa , " Katz said . <p> His remarks at an event at the defence ministry mark the first public acknowledgement that Israel was behind the late July killing of Haniyeh in the Iranian capital . <p> Shakoor Nizamani is a working journalist . He has keen interest in society , politics , international relations , philosophy and religion ( Tasawwuf /Mysticism ) . His experience of journalism includes writing on current affairs with focus on Pakistan . <h> ABOUT US <p> ARY NEWS brings you 24/7 Live Streaming , Headlines , Bulletins , Talk Shows , Infotainment , and much more . Watch minute-by-minute updates of current affairs and happenings from Pakistan and all around the world ! 
@@119256378 <h> According to the UN humanitarian chief , sending aid to Gaza " has become almost impossible . " <h> According to Al Jazeera , Tom Fletcher , the head of the UN 's humanitarian organization OCHA , has asked governments in Gaza and the occupied West Bank to " defend humanitarian law " and " break the cycle of violence . " <p> " We provide humanitarian aid in difficult locations . Fletcher was cited as saying , " But in a year when more humanitarians have been killed than any on record , Gaza is currently the most dangerous . " <p> As a result , it is now nearly hard to provide even a small portion of the desperately needed relief , despite the enormous humanitarian demands . Since October 6 , more than 100 requests to enter North Gaza have been turned down by the Israeli government , demonstrating their continued refusal to grant us real access . Additionally , we are witnessing the disintegration of law enforcement and the organized armed stealing of our supplies by neighborhood gangs . <p> After meeting with relief organizations , including those operating in the occupied Palestinian land , in Jordan , Syria , and Lebanon , the UN representative made the remarks . With schools , hospitals , and other civilian infrastructure reduced to rubble , he denounced the " sustained intensity " of Israel 's bombardment in Gaza and claimed that there is nowhere safe for people in the region . <h> PKKH ( Pakistan Ka Khuda Hafiz ) is a respected Pakistani news website offering accurate and comprehensive coverage of politics , culture , and global affairs . With a commitment to objective reporting and insightful analysis , PKKH provides readers with a well-rounded perspective on current events . The platform encourages community engagement and leverages digital technology to reach a wide audience , contributing to informed discussions and awareness . 
@@119256379 <h> Israel killed Ismail Haniyeh , a minister acknowledges <h> JERUSALEM -- Israel Katz , the defense minister , admitted Monday that Israel had killed Ismail Haniyeh , the former head of Hamas , in Tehran earlier this year , but he also threatened to " decapitate " the Houthi leadership in Yemen . <p> " We 're going to hit the Houthis hard . " We will decapitate their leadership in Hodeida and Sanaa , just as we did with Haniyeh , Yahya Sinwar , and Hassan Nasrallah in Tehran , Gaza , and Lebanon , " Katz stated . <p> Speaking at a defense ministry event , he made the first public admission that Israel was responsible for the killing of Haniyeh in the Iranian capital in late July , one day after he was present at Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian 's inauguration . <p> Katz stated in a ministry statement that " anyone who raises a hand against Israel will have his hand cut off , and the long arm of the IDF ( Israeli military ) will strike him and hold him accountable . " <p> This is the first time an Israeli official has acknowledged that Tel Aviv was involved in the assassination of Ismail Haniyeh on Iranian land , even though Tel Aviv acknowledged the strikes that targeted Sinwar and Nasrallah . <p> Iran launched what it called a " barrage of missiles " at targets inside Israel in October , escalating tensions between the two regional arch-rivals . Despite Israel 's claims that it destroyed the majority of the projectiles before they struck , several missiles did strike different parts of the nation , though no significant casualties were reported . <p> The assassinations of Hassan Nasrallah , IRGC commander Abbas Nilforoushan , and Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh in Tehran in July were cited by Tehran at the time as the reasons for the strike . <h> PKKH ( Pakistan Ka Khuda Hafiz ) is a respected Pakistani news website offering accurate and comprehensive coverage of politics , culture , and global affairs . With a commitment to objective reporting and insightful analysis , PKKH provides readers with a well-rounded perspective on current events . The platform encourages community engagement and leverages digital technology to reach a wide audience , contributing to informed discussions and awareness . 
@@119273698 <p> CAIRO : Israeli troops forced the evacuation of the Indonesian Hospital in northern Gaza and many patients , some of them on foot , arrived at another hospital miles away in Gaza City , the territory 's health ministry said on Tuesday . <p> The Indonesian Hospital is one of the Gaza Strip 's few still partially functioning hospitals , on its northern edge , an area that has been under intense Israeli military pressure for nearly three months . <p> Munir Al-Bursh , director of the health ministry in the Gaza Strip , said the Israeli army had ordered hospital officials to evacuate it on Monday , before storming it in the early hours of Tuesday and forcing those inside to leave . <p> He said two other medical facilities in northern Gaza , Al-Awda and Kamal Adwan Hospitals , were also subject to frequent assaults by Israeli troops . Israeli forces have operated in the vicinity of the Kamal Adwan hospital since Monday , medics said . <p> Officials at the three hospitals have refused orders by Israel to evacuate their facilities or leave patients unattended since the new military offensive began on October 5 . <p> Israel says it has been facilitating the delivery of medical supplies , fuel and the transfer of patients to other hospitals in the enclave during that period in collaboration with international agencies such as the World Health Organisation . <p> Hussam Abu Safiya , director of the Kamal Adwan Hospital , said they resisted a new order by the army to evacuate hundreds of patients , their companions and staff , adding that the hospital has been under constant Israeli fire that damaged generators , oxygen pumps and parts of the building . <p> New strikes <p> The health ministry in Gaza said on Tuesday that 21 people had been killed in the Palestinian territory in the past 24 hours , taking the overall war death toll to 45,338 . The ministry also said in a statement that at least 107,764 people have been wounded in more than 14 months of the conflict . <p> Meanwhile , Israeli bombardment continued elsewhere in the enclave and medics said at least nine Palestinians , including a member of the civil emergency service , were killed in four separate military strikes on Tuesday . <p> Palestinian officials reported that Israeli forces killed two Palestinians , including a woman , during a raid at a refugee camp in the occupied West Bank on Tuesday . <p> According to the Palestinian ministry of health , 53-year-old Khawla Ali Abdullah Abdo was killed in an air strike at the Tulkarem camp , while 18-year-old Fathi Said Awda Ubaid was fatally shot in the chest and abdomen . <p> Both victims ' bodies were transferred to Thabet Hospital . <p> The Palestinian Red Crescent confirmed the deaths , saying its ambulances initially faced challenges accessing the scene due to the violence . <p> The Israeli military , which frequently conducts raids in the territory targeting individuals it identifies as wanted fighters , said in a statement that it had eliminated a fighter in close combat during a raid that began overnight . It was unclear which of the two Palestinians the Israeli statement referred to . <p> Residents of the Tulkarem camp reported that the raid , which began in the early hours of Tuesday , involved bulldozers destroying roads . <p> Violence in the West Bank has intensified since the war in Gaza broke out on October 7 last year following Hamas ' attack on Israel . <p> Since the Gaza war began , at least 805 Palestinians have been killed in the West Bank by Israeli forces or settlers , according to the Palestinian health ministry . 
@@119273699 <p> JERUSALEM : Israel 's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told lawmakers on Monday that " some progress " had been made in negotiations to secure the release of prisoners held in Gaza . <p> His comments in parliament come two days after three Palestinian fighter groups said in a rare joint statement that a deal for a ceasefire in Gaza conflict and to exchange prisoners was " closer than ever . " <p> In recent days , indirect negotiations between Israel and Hamas mediated by Qatar , Egypt , and the United States were held in Doha , rekindling hope of an agreement , more than 14 months into the Gaza conflict . <p> " Everything we are doing can not be disclosed . We are taking actions to bring them back . I wish to say cautiously that there has been some progress , and we will not stop acting until we bring them all home , " Netanyahu said in parliament . <p> " I want to say to the families of the hostages : We are thinking of you and we will not give up on your loved ones , who are our loved ones as well . " <p> On Saturday , Hamas , Islamic Jihad and the leftist Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine said in a joint statement that progress had been made to reach a ceasefire deal . <p> " The possibility of reaching an agreement ( for a ceasefire and prisoner exchange deal ) is closer than ever , provided the enemy stops imposing new conditions , " the three groups said after they held talks in Cairo a day earlier . <p> In his address to lawmakers , Netanyahu also warned the Houthi rebels of Yemen , who last week fired two missiles at Israel , including one that injured 16 people in the commercial hub of Tel Aviv on Saturday . 
@@119273703 <p> As the country celebrated the 148th birthday of Quaid-i-Azam Mohammad Ali Jinnah on Wednesday , President Asif Ali Zardari and Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif vowed to build a Pakistan that reflects Jinnah 's vision of inclusivity and rights for religious minorities . <p> The day dawned with gun salutes in the federal and provincial capitals followed by a change of the guard 's ceremony at Quaid-i-Azam 's mausoleum in Karachi , where a contingent of Pakistan Military Academy Kakul assumed guard duties , Radio Pakistan reported . <p> Special programmes were arranged during the day to pay tribute to the Father of the Nation . <p> In a statement , President Zardari reiterated his commitment to religious harmony , mutual respect , and protection of minority rights in the country . <p> He said , " The Constitution guarantees the fundamental rights of all citizens , irrespective of their faith and our founding father Quaid-e-Azam Muhammad Ali Jinnah also envisioned a Pakistan where people of all religions could thrive as equal citizens . " <p> He added that upholding the rights of all citizens is essential for fostering national unity and progress . <p> President Zardari said that in order to achieve Quaid 's vision , " we must invest in the education of our youth , ensuring that they are equipped with the knowledge and skills to lead Pakistan into a brighter future . We also need to work for the uplift of downtrodden segments of society " . <p> " Jinnah 's dream of a peaceful and moderate Pakistan obliges us to promote harmony within and beyond our borders , " the president said . <p> " On this day , we honour the contributions of the Father of the Nation , who changed the course of history through a political struggle . Quaid-i-Azam 's vision , determination and unwavering resolve led to the creation of an independent homeland for Muslims of the subcontinent , " President Secretariat Press Wing , in a press release , quoted the president as saying . <p> The president also highlighted the occasion of Christmas being celebrated today and called for " ensuring that intolerance and discrimination are discouraged and everyone feels respected and safe in the country " . <p> Zardari appreciated the role of the Christian community in Pakistan 's development stating " they have excelled in education , healthcare , community service , social welfare , and public service and their contributions are a testament to our national diversity . " <p> He said , " Let us carry the spirit of Christmas throughout the year , working together to build a society rooted in peace , justice , and compassion . " <p> In his statement , PM Shehbaz vowed to continue ensuring that " people of all faiths can practice their beliefs freely and contribute to the collective progress of our nation " , Radio Pakistanstated . <p> " Today , as we celebrate the 148th birth anniversary of our Founding Father , Quaid-i-Azam Muhammad Ali Jinnah , we are reminded of his extraordinary vision , unwavering courage and unparalleled determination . He achieved what many thought impossible and gifted us our homeland , Pakistan , " the prime minister said . <p> PM Shehbaz said that Quaid 's life continued to inspire countless people as an enlightened teacher , visionary lawyer , principled statesman , steadfast politician , and charismatic leader . " His journey is a testament to the power of conviction and the realisation of dreams through hard work and dedication , " he said . <p> Expressing his heartfelt felicitations to the Christian brethren in Pakistan and around the world on Christmas , the premier reaffirmed his commitment to safeguard the rights of all religious communities and foster an environment of mutual respect and understanding . <p> He called for reflecting on the profound message of peace , brotherhood , and love for all humanity as taught by Prophet Isa who preached values of compassion , kindness , mercy , and wisdom . <p> The prime minister paid tribute to the invaluable contributions made by the Christian community for the progress and stability of Pakistan , particularly in the fields of education , healthcare , and nation-building . <h> PM urges nation to take care of religious minorities <p> Speaking at a special event held in Islamabad to mark Christmas , PM Shehbaz urged the nation to " work together for peace , progress and prosperity " . <p> Noting that Prophet Isa ( Jesus ) and his mother , Maryam ( Mary ) , were mentioned in the Holy Quran , the premier highlighted the importance accorded to them among Muslims . <p> Referring to Bethlehem in the Israel-occupied West Bank , he said : " Murder and brutality are rampant in the birthplace of Prophet Isa today and thousands of Palestinians have been killed . " <p> PM Shehbaz further called on the world to raise its voice to bring an end to Israel 's onslaught by securing a ceasefire in Gaza . <p> The prime minister went on to highlight the achievements of the Christian community residing in Pakistan , who he said " lived with great peace " here . <p> He recalled their feats in various fields , including education , as well as their role in securing the borders and various wars . He also mentioned former chief justice of Pakistan Alvin Robert Cornelius and human rights activist Cecil Chaudhry . <p> Calling for promoting brotherhood , the premier stressed , " We should act with patience and tolerance , keeping our emotions in control . We should take care of the religious minorities in our country in every way , treating them with care and affection , so that they consider themselves a proud part of this country . " <h> Chief ministers across country vow to protect minorities <p> On the occasion , Sindh Chief Minister Murad Ali Shah and Governor Kamran Tessori ? visited Mazar-e-Quaid , where they laid floral wreaths , offered fateha , and recorded their impressions in the visitor 's book . <p> CM Shah stressed it depended on the nation whether to follow Quaid 's vision and values , calling for unity and pledging to make Pakistan a " peace-loving and developed " country . <p> Punjab CM Maryam Nawaz also vowed to ensure protection for minority communities in her province , which saw an incident of mob violence in May that resulted in a Christian man 's death . <p> Addressing a Christmas event in Lahore , she said : " My entire focus is on building a better Pakistan and Punjab for you , where you can sleep peacefully , without worrying that someone would come and hit you and burn your house , or there would be mob violence . <p> " My special focus is that you get that sense of inclusion , participation and ownership , " the chief minister added . <p> " If the state is like a mother , then your chief minister is also like a mother . Like a mother does not discriminate among her children , there is no religious discrimination in my mind and heart . <p> " Whether it is a Christian , Hindu , Sikh , or belongs to any other religion , they are my crown and their protection and well-being is my responsibility , " Maryam asserted . <p> The Punjab CM said she was aiming that religious minorities are an " equal shareholder " in whatever projects her government launched . <p> Recalling Quaid 's dreams of a prosperous Pakistan , the KP CM stressed the need today to " play our individual and collective role by rising above our political affiliations to make this country a great Islamic welfare state , as per the vision of Pakistan 's founders " . <p> CM Gandapur called for establishing a system of " law , justice and merit " in the country , terming them as the basic principles of a welfare state . <p> In his statement on Christmas , the chief minister noted that the Constitution guaranteed Christians " complete freedom to celebrate their festivals and practice their religion and traditions " . <p> He affirmed that his KP government believed in protecting religious minorities , their property and their rights , and was taking concrete steps for it . " The prevailing situation in the country demands that interfaith harmony be promoted at all levels , " CM Gandapur stressed . <p> Balochistan CM Sarfraz Bugti also highlighted Quaid 's values , calling on the public to pledge to play its role for national unity and stability . <p> Separately , a post on former prime minister Imran Khan 's X account , which is not operated directly by him , stressed : " We must resolve to build a peaceful and prosperous Pakistan , rooted in justice for all its citizens . " <p> Another post wished " Christian citizens a Happy Christmas , full of peace and joy " . <h> COAS Gen Munir joins Christmas celebration at Rawalpindi Church <p> Meanwhile , Chief of Army Staff ( COAS ) General Asim Munir joined the Christian community in celebrating Christmas at Rawalpindi 's St. Joseph 's Catholic Cathedral Church , underscoring the spirit of inclusivity and harmony . <p> COAS Asim Munir speaks at Rawalpindi 's St. Joseph 's Catholic Cathedral Church on the occasion of Christmas on Dec 25 , 2024. -- via APP <p> The congregation extended a warm welcome to the COAS , expressing gratitude for his presence and solidarity during this cherished occasion , the Inter-Services Public Relations ( ISPR ) said in a statement . <p> The army chief conveyed his heartfelt Christmas greetings to the Christian community across the nation , emphasising that the occasion " serves as a profound reminder of the universal values of compassion , generosity , and goodwill -- principles that bind our diverse society together " . <p> " He further acknowledged the remarkable contributions of minorities and Christian community to Pakistan 's cultural , social , economic and national progress , which remain a source of pride and strength for the nation , " the ISPR said . <p> On the occasion , Gen Munir also paid a solemn tribute to the Founder of the Nation , highlighting Quaid 's " visionary leadership , unwavering determination , and steadfast adherence to the principles of Faith , Unity and Discipline " , which " not only paved the way for the creation of Pakistan but also provided a timeless blueprint for nation-building " . <p> The COAS remarked that Quaid-e-Azam 's enduring commitment to the ideals of freedom , equality , and religious tolerance " continued to inspire and guide the nation in addressing contemporary challenges , from safeguarding territorial integrity to fostering internal stability " . <h> Quaid 's tireless efforts united our people : ISPR <p> The armed forces also paid " profound homage to the Father of the Nation " on his birthday , the military 's media affairs wing said . <p> On the " auspicious occasion " , Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff Committee General Sahir Shamshad Mirza , the services chiefs , and the armed forces honoured the " enduring vision and unparalleled leadership of Quaid-e-Azam " , the Inter-Services Public Relations ( ISPR ) said . <p> It added that Jinnah 's " tireless efforts united our people and established the foundation for a sovereign and independent Pakistan " . " On this day of national significance , we renew our unwavering commitment to his guiding principles of unity , faith , and discipline , which continue to inspire the nation , " the military said . <p> The armed forces also extended " heartfelt greetings to the Christian community on the joyous occasion of Christmas " . " In solidarity with our Christian brothers and sisters , we celebrate the universal values of love , compassion , and peace that this occasion represents , " the statement said . <p> The military said it remained " resolutely dedicated to safeguarding the nation and upholding the ideals of justice , equality , and harmony in the service of our people and our homeland " . 
@@119273719 <p> JUST before sitting down yesterday to write this column , I was listening to a History Extra podcast about the ' history behind the headlines ' of 2024 . It was a conversation between Oxford and Harvard academics Hannah Skoda and Rana Mitter , who spoke for 45 minutes without even a passing reference to the genocide in Gaza or its antecedents . <p> What kind of oblivion do such intellects reside in , where they can reference the Nuremberg-adjacent Tokyo trials while ignoring this year 's Israel-focused proceedings at The Hague ? And how can Christmas be celebrated today without any recognition of the daily atrocities taking place in the land where so many of the traditions on which the Abrahamic faiths are based originated ? <p> And then there are the children , supposedly the chief beneficiaries of Yuletide , who are being robbed of their futures . Both the dead and the living . Earlier this month , a War Child Alliance-sponsored NGO concluded that 96 per cent of the surviving children in the besieged territory consider death to be imminent , and half of them would welcome that outcome . If only a fraction of the folk carving their stuffed turkey or ham roast would consider the starvation in Gaza that is part of the genocidal intent , it might give them cause for a pause . A token minute of silence , perhaps , followed by a determination to back the kind of boycott , divestment and sanctions that helped to demolish a previous apartheid regime . <p> Peace on Earth is imperilled or absent . <p> Israel 's raids on Gaza , resulting in dozens of deaths each day , continued even as it pursued a similar strategy in Lebanon , before going on to destroy the military capabilities of post-Assad Syria , a country that had n't posed any serious threat to Israel for half a century , notwithstanding its notorious role in Lebanon and serving as a conduit for weapons and other supplies to Hezbollah . Israel routinely attacked some of these Iranian-affiliated conduits , but Bashar al-Assad 's military facilities were rarely targeted while he was in power . <p> Although it has been suggested that the Qatar-sponsored ceasefire talks between Israel and Hamas are 90pc complete , there is cause for scepticism given similar previous pronouncements , mostly emanating from the US , which bears as much responsibility for the genocide as Israel . No one can say to what extent Kamala Harris 's presidential prospects would have been improved by at least pretending to have a spine . Still , those who understandably withheld their votes from the Democratic candidate on this basis and gave them to her Republican rival will find cause for self-flagellation once Donald Trump re-enters the White House . <p> There are , of course , plenty of supplementary causes around the world to reconsider the traditional Yuletide model of ' joy unto the world ' -- from the massacres in Sudan and the Congo to the continuing death and destruction in Ukraine and the terrorist attack in Magdeburg that has left German authorities struggling to figure out why an evidently Islamophobic and pro-Zionist psychiatrist who came to the country as a Saudi refugee would decide to plough through a Christmas market in his vehicle , killing five women and a child , and injuring more than 230 others . Taleb al-Abdulmohsen abandoned his faith and sought to support potential exiles who wished to escape the Gulf region 's version of religious injunctions . At the same time , though , he railed against Middle Eastern immigration to Europe , and absurdly considered the likes of Angela Merkel to be promoting the Islamisation of the continent . <p> Even the secular-minded Gulf emigres he contacted -- especially women -- were alarmed by his bullying tactics . Perhaps understandably , the German authorities paid little heed to wa ? ? ? rnings from Riyadh about his extremism . It is not inconceivable , though , that his horrific , deadly act was guided by the notion of helping his favourite party , the neo-Nazi Alternative for Germany ( AfD ) , to reinforce its case agai ? nst immigration . The AfD -- unreservedly backed by Elon Musk , seen by some as effectively the next president of the US -- has lost little time in capitalising on the obscenity of its kindred spirit 's murderous spree . It would n't be surprising if that had been Abdulmohsen 's intention all along . <p> Meanwhile , as for a peace deal with a Saudi component , it 's worth recalling that the US Republicans thwarted a Vietnam settlement in 1968 to benefit Richard Nixon , and delayed the release of American hostages in Iran a decade later to boost Ronald Reagan . That pattern might be repeated ahead of the Trump presidency , eagerly awaited by idiots and fellow proto-fascists around the world . <p> Be that as it may , the relentless genocide in Gaza and its reflections in the region and beyond provide sufficient cause to wonder whether the worthy notion of pacem in terris will remain a realistic aspiration during Christmases to come . 
@@119273752 <h> Neverending Nightmare <p> The events transpiring in Gaza have turned into a nightmare that does not end . Many of us continue to watch in horrifying disbelief as Gaza plunges deeper into unimaginable suffering , and the grim reality is punctuated by Israel 's brutal assaults on barely functioning remnants of infrastructure . The latest of these barbaric acts targeted two more hospitals in strokes that have killed 21 and injured at least 51 . Welcome to Palestine , a land where there are no sanctuaries and the entire population languishes as sitting ducks for Israeli soldiers . Meanwhile , disturbing footage making rounds on social media shows soldiers storming another town in the West Bank . <p> Hospitals are meant to be safe havens , not targets in a relentless campaign of devastation . The blood-stained images of victims being pulled from the rubble starkly reveal the indiscriminate violence unleashed by the Israeli forces . <p> But the horror does n't stop here . As if the violence were not enough , we are faced with an even more grotesque revelation-Israel 's complicity in the theft of humanitarian aid meant for the very people suffering under its bombardment . <p> Gaza 's media office calls upon the international community to intervene and ensure that aid is allowed to flow into the largest besieged strip on the face of this earth in order to give the suffering a slight chance at life . <p> To deprive a vulnerable population of essential aid amidst such a crisis is nothing short of despicable . This betrayal mocks the very principles of humanitarian support and further underscores the chilling reality of the power dynamics at play . <p> No matter what the Netanyahu administration may like the world to believe , its claims to moral high ground have become a distant memory . The wanton destruction and senseless violence reveal a society that has abandoned its ethical compass in favour of aggression and suppression . <p> Each day that passes without decisive action is another day that amplifies the cycle of violence , another day that innocent lives hang in the balance . * 
@@119273755 <h> Pak-Iran and Global Outlook <p> It is a well-known fact that neighbours can not be changed and here we are talking about two neighbouring countries that are tied in brotherly relations . And when Pakistan became independent , Iran was the first country to recognize Pakistan and when the Iranian people , under the leadership of Ayatollah Khomeini , launched the largest popular revolution against the monarchy in the history of Islamic countries , Pakistan was the first to recognize it . <p> Although the United States was strongly opposed to the revolution , General Zia 's government in Pakistan ignored this and immediately recognized the Iranian revolution . This is also a sign that Pakistan never sees Iran through the eyes of anyone else but rather makes decisions keeping its long-standing interests in mind , no matter how unpleasant it may be for anyone . After showing a brief glimpse of the past , I would like to connect with the present . <p> Whenever the foreign policy of any country is formulated , a few issues are taken into special consideration , and both Pakistan and Iran are no exception . In today 's era , the global environment and its possible effects are discussed , the mutual needs of the two countries are determined , and the ongoing internal political dynamics in both countries , economic players , political environment , and perceptions of different linguistic , regional and religious groups are taken into account , which can play any role in improving or deteriorating mutual relations . <p> Despite American opposition , Pakistan has never seen Iran through the lens of American interests . <p> If the relations between Iran and Pakistan are examined in the context of the global environment , it is clear as day that relations between the United States and Iran have been deteriorating continuously since the revolution , and it is so bad that recently the US Secretary of State stated in blunt terms that the United States has been trying to overthrow the current government or system of Iran by interfering in the internal affairs of Iran . <p> The various sanctions imposed by the US on Iran are also in front of everyone and because of this , many problems have arisen from Pak-Iran bilateral trade to the gas pipeline . As a Pakistani , I would like to state with pride that despite American opposition , Pakistan has never seen Iran through the lens of American interests and since the revolution till today , Pakistan has not allowed anyone else to influence its bilateral relations . <p> I also consider Pakistan 's relations with the US as an open window in the context of Iran . Former Pakistani Foreign Ministers Khurshid Mahmood Kasuri and Jalil Abbas Jilani said that Pakistan has played the role of Iran 's ambassador to the US many times . <p> During the tenure of Condoleezza Rice , Pakistan informed the Americans about Iran 's position , or rather , it would be more accurate to say , explain it to them . <p> Despite the current economic difficulties , Pakistan has a unique position and if it still enjoys Iran 's trust in this regard , it can play a very positive role and make it possible to achieve positive results . <p> Sometimes the reason for the confusion of matters is only a lack of understanding of each other . If Pakistan plays such a role , then in such a case , not only the region will have to face a better situation , but Pakistan can also get a sense of peace . Pakistan has been facing a military threat from India since the first day of its independence and this idea is completely wrong it is just a hypothetical idea . Whenever the date of December 16 comes , the reality of this threat also comes to the fore . The mutual relations between Iran and India are now very good , but the fact should also be kept in mind that Iran had supported Pakistan on the diplomatic front in the wars of 1965 and 1971 . <p> Iran also supports Pakistan 's position on the burning issue of Kashmir and Iran 's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Khamenei has mentioned Kashmir , which clarifies Iran 's feelings in this regard . This policy was laid down by Ayatollah Khomeini when he , in a speech in Najaf in 1965 , appealed to all Muslims to put aside their differences and unite in support of various Muslim causes . He had said that if the Muslim world is united , " Jews will not be able to covet Palestine , Hindus will not be able to covet Kashmir . " <p> For this reason , whether India invests in Chabahar or looks ahead to Iran on other issues , Pakistan does not need to worry . Indeed , if India 's economic and trade interests continue to be associated with Iran , then in such a situation , Pakistan will have a friendly country , Iran , which can at least try to convince India that by forgetting the bitterness of the past with Pakistan and settling matters , this entire region can better and faster save its citizens from its real enemy , namely poverty and inhuman life . <p> Because as long as the mutual conflict continues , no better results can be achieved . The tension in the mutual relations between Saudi Arabia and Iran is a headache for Pakistan . Both countries are brothers of Pakistan . Their deep religious influences are present in different religious elements of Pakistan and due to these religious elements , the peace and order situation in Pakistan also becomes a question mark . <p> What has just happened in Syria is also having various effects on the mutual relations of Arab countries , Turkey and Iran and will continue to have them . <p> But in the meantime , when the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia made a statement about respecting Iran 's sovereignty and borders in comparison to Israel , there was a hope that the tension between these two most important Muslim countries could be reduced to listening , understanding and respecting each other . <p> When diplomatic relations between Iran and Saudi Arabia were restored some time ago due to China 's efforts , a better message was sent to the whole world and now the statement of the Saudi Crown Prince has further strengthened this situation , which is also a source of comfort for Pakistan . <p> The situation in Afghanistan has been a headache for the entire region for the past half-century and no matter what government is established there , there are always complaints from some neighboring country . When the Afghan Taliban came to power in the past , unfortunately , the entire region was poisoned by a toxic sectarian atmosphere and because of this , there was tension in the relations between the Afghan Taliban and Iran , which was also having an impact on Pak-Iran relations . <p> But now that the Afghan Taliban have come to power , they have shed the tag of any sectarian conflict . During this time , Iran 's relations with them have also improved and due to this improvement , the negative effects of differences of opinion on Afghan affairs on Pakistan-Iran relations have started to disappear . Neither Pakistan nor Iran is satisfied with the situation in Afghanistan , but now they are not even looking at each other with concern . <p> Which is a positive thing regarding the situation of the region . Along with all these , the issue of Palestine is also such that it is not just an issue of Iran , not just an issue of Muslims , but an issue of every human being who has humanity . It is a matter of great luck that Pakistan and Iran have the same stance on the recent events in Gaza and Pakistan believes in Iran 's sovereignty and respect for its borders . Along with all these issues , it is also important to mention that some such situations repeatedly arise on the border of Pakistan and Iran regarding Balochistan , on which the opinions of the authorities of both countries differ , and due to this , an unpleasant situation also arose at the beginning of this year . <p> Then , sectarian terrorism and the loss of lives of diplomats were very heartbreaking incidents . But despite this , the leaderships of both countries showed patience and took steps to bring the situation under control . <p> There are many such doors between the two countries that can be further opened . The rail network should be established while the condition of the roads should be improved.This will further strengthen religious and cultural ties , as well as trade , even in the current circumstances . <p> If an effective strategy is developed to further strengthen the economic interests of both countries , then in such a situation , relations will touch new heights , which should be our common goal . 
@@119273756 <h> Military Courts : Biased Criticism <p> Much-awaited sentencing of 25 culprits involved in the 9 May riots has drawn some meaningful criticism . As the saying goes ; Justice delayed is justice denied ! Saner quarters opine that the coordinated nature of attacks on military garrisons and installations across the country merited a more expeditious conclusion of the unprecedented crime . Few familiar self-style flagbearers of human rights and judicial values are raising questions on the transparency of civilians ' trials in any military court . On many accounts , criticism of the recent sentencing of 9 May rioters is erroneous and agenda-driven . Strangely , rioters are being labelled as ' political workers ' without considering their confessed involvement in simultaneously launched attacks on more than 200 military installations . Neither the luxury of attacking military installations with full impunity is available in any law nor it is possible to distinguish political workers from the armed mob charging at the sensitive installations . Peaceful political workers restrict themselves to raising slogans , and speeches , holding placards and other universally known non-violent activities . <p> What happened on 9 May 2023 was neither peaceful nor political activity in any way ! Blatant use of violence and coordinated attacks on military installations was nothing but a planned act of mutiny against the state . No responsible state can ignore such kind of extraordinary serious rebellion maneuvers . Logic should prevail over rhetoric . Extraordinary threats merit extraordinary counter-measures . By this logic , turtle paced routine judicial process is too ineffective to conclude serious crimes like terrorism and planned mutiny . It is an undeniable fact that multiple weaknesses and handicaps of LEAs in countering the menace of terrorism have overburdened the armed forces with additional tasks across the country . This well-intended arrangement has all sorts of legitimacy leaving no room for speculative doubts about exceptional security measures . Advocacy for the normal constitutional model of a fair trial remains valid in principle but arguments isolated from ground realities usually distort the opinions . It is precisely happening in Pakistan on the issue of military courts . Before imposing a blanket ban on the trial of civilians in military courts , one should comprehend the origin of this practice . Brainstorming in silos about fair trial procedures and the rights of an accused will be an unfair approach towards the precarious security dynamics of Pakistan . The reasons behind the establishment of military courts are very much relevant , as evident from the recent conditional approval of the apex court to conclude the trials of 89 civilians accused of the 9 May riots . The extraordinary challenge of foreign-sponsored terrorism , weaker rather dysfunctional policing , unreliable prosecution system , meagre forensic facilities and traditionally slow-paced judicial procedures are the real reasons behind the reliance of the state on the institution of armed forces . State 's unavoidable desperation for resolute counter-terrorism operations , rapid prosecution and unhindered swift sentencing of terrorists eventually merit the lead role of armed forces in the restoration of internal stability . Understandably , military courts are an essential part of the overall security scheme of the state . Armed forces , being a national asset , are delivering the best to secure the state . <p> Mischievous activism against military courts laced with equally toxic support from familiar foreign players has added more twists . <p> The lead role of armed forces in counter-terrorism drive including trials of terrorists in military courts may not be an ideal arrangement for a few advocates of the Utopian state but their criticism appears grossly misplaced once judged in the context of prevailing gaps in prosecution and judicial system . Hue and cry from Western quarters revolving around human rights seems hollow once compared with their merciless silence on the Gaza tragedy . Trials of civilians in military courts under extraordinary security compulsions to seek swift justice is not an alien concept . Many European , South Asian , Middle Eastern and African countries have subscribed to the idea including USA , Turkey , Russia , India , KSA , Iran and Israel ; as extensively reported in national and international media . How critics can ignore the special tribunals formed to swiftly conclude the trials of accused involved in Capitol Hill riots in the USA . <p> Trials of civilians in military courts are fully in line with the constitution and international conventions . The process guarantees a fair trial , the right of appeal , the hiring of defending lawyer and subsequent judicial review of the accused . The practice of trials in a military court was validated by a full court of SC as well with no objection on any of the sub-clauses of Sections 2 and 59 of PAA in 2015 . Obviously , any arrested terrorist cum rioter would feel relieved for being called out political worker and prosecuted under a nearly dysfunctional judicial system . Ironically , system gaps would offer guaranteed impunity to all hardcore terrorists and anarchic rioters . Mischievous activism against military courts laced with equally toxic support from familiar foreign players has added more twists to this issue . How state or for that matter prosecution or judiciary can differently tackle the attack on military installations by banning TTP or any rioter cunningly masked as a political protester ? 
@@119273790 <p> Pope Francis has denounced the " extremely grave " humanitarian situation in Gaza and appealed for an immediate ceasefire , the release of captives , and humanitarian aid to those suffering from hunger and war . Speaking from the Vatican during his Christmas " Urbi et Orbi " address on Wednesday , the Pope also extended his calls for peace to other conflict zones , including Ukraine and Sudan . <p> " I think of the Christian communities in Israel and Palestine , particularly in Gaza , where the humanitarian situation is extremely grave . May there be a ceasefire , may the hostages be released and aid be given to the people worn out by hunger and by war , " he said . <p> The Pope 's remarks come amid Israel 's ongoing military operations in Gaza , which have resulted in at least 45,361 Palestinian deaths and 107,803 injuries since October 7 , 2023 . The violence began after a Hamas-led operation into Israel , which killed 1,139 people and took about 200 captives . Israel 's " retaliation " has led to widespread displacement , leaving much of Gaza in ruins . <p> Francis , now in his 12th Christmas as pontiff , also called for an end to conflicts around the world , including in Lebanon , Mali , Mozambique , Haiti , Venezuela , and Nicaragua . " I invite every individual , and all people of all nations ... to become pilgrims of hope , to silence the sounds of arms and overcome divisions , " he urged . <p> Calls for peace in Ukraine and Sudan <p> The Pope also addressed the war in Ukraine , calling for the " sound of arms to be silenced in war-torn Ukraine " and for " gestures of dialogue and encounter , in order to achieve a just and lasting peace . " Earlier this year , he was criticized by Ukrainian officials when he suggested that Ukraine should have the " courage of the white flag " to negotiate an end to the war with Russia . However , Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has shown increasing openness to peace talks , particularly following the re-election of Donald Trump as U.S. president . <p> In his address , Francis highlighted the ongoing war in Sudan , where a brutal civil war has raged for 20 months , leaving millions facing famine . " May the Son of the Most High sustain the efforts of the international community to facilitate access to humanitarian aid for the civilian population of Sudan and to initiate new negotiations for a ceasefire , " the Pope said . <p> The war in Sudan began in April 2023 , when tensions between the military and the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces erupted into open conflict . The violence has been marked by numerous atrocities , including ethnically motivated killings and sexual violence . The International Criminal Court is investigating allegations of war crimes and crimes against humanity . <p> Earlier this week , a United Nations-backed global hunger-monitoring group warned that famine is spreading across Sudan , with millions of civilians at risk . 
@@119273820 <h> Murdered with impunity <p> The ongoing conflict in Gaza has taken a profoundly devastating toll , particularly on the youngest and most vulnerable members of society . Recent reports from the United Nations Agency for Palestinian Refugees ( UNRWA ) reveal that Israel has murdered over 46,000 people in Gaza alone , including at least 14,500 Palestinian children , since its genocidal response to the October 7 , 2023 terror attack , in which 1,180 Israelis were killed . The Hamas-led attack on Israel , like the actions of the Israeli government and military , primarily targeted civilians - 797 of the 1,180 people killed in the Hamas-led terror attack were civilians , including 36 children . Meanwhile , over 70% of the 52,000-plus victims of the Israeli Defence Force 's reign of terror across the region are women and children . <p> Unfortunately , because they are mostly Palestinian , the US and other Israeli allies do n't see any problem . In fact , when it comes to Israel , even American lives do n't matter to Washington . In September , after an American woman was shot in the head by Israeli security forces while she was peacefully protesting against illegal Israeli settlements in the West Bank , President Joe Biden defended Israel , calling the death a " tragic error " , and facing no pushback from mainstream American leaders . His own party would probably have impeached him if he had made a similar comment about any of the unarmed black and brown people killed by trigger-happy American policemen . <p> Meanwhile , incoming president Donald Trump has already given Israel permission to " do whatever you have to do " , referring to wiping out the entire population of Gaza , if necessary , to eliminate Hamas . We should also note that the State Department has reportedly recommended sanctions against the Israeli military , but the Biden administration has blocked even public mention of the suggestion , lest it enter the zeitgeist and lead to awareness among Americans about the crimes being committed with their taxes . Governments that devalue the lives of their own citizens can not be expected to take meaningful action to protect the children of others . 
@@119273821 <h> The changing nature of war and Pakistan <p> The writer is a retired major general and has an interest in International Relations and Political Sociology . He can be reached at tayyarinam@hotmail.com and tweets @20Inam <p> It was in December 2021 that I wrote a piece titled ' Future of Warfare ' published here , sequel to a series of write-ups on warfare that covered the technical , technological and theoretical aspects of warfare . <p> Discussion included the shift of traditional construct of warfare broadly from ' Limited ' to ' Total ' to ' Full Spectrum ' warfare . ' Full Spectrum ' conflict being limited and/or full employment of all " hybrid " capabilities - including non-traditional tools like networks ( including social media - SMNs ) , media in all forms , electronic and digital tools , space and nuclear leverages , etc - in symmetric and/or asymmetric military , perceptual , virtual and societal domains , etc . <p> This discussion concluded that : a ) waging war today may seem " easier " as distant killing by remote-controlled machines ( killer robots , drones , etc ) , in a more abstract combat , makes violence more tolerable and palatable , hence more likely . We are seeing this in Gaza ; b ) uneven technological innovation among states may cause misperceptions about adversary 's military capabilities ( and actual balance of power ) , leading to miscalculations . Such misperceptions and potential miscalculations might increase fear , uncertainty and risk . This is especially true for the nuclear domain ; c ) autonomous , AI-driven machines might run amok at some stage . Human casualties - in a US Army wargame - caused machines to escalate in unexpected ways that humans could n't control ; d ) greater investment by private sector in AI-specific R&amp;D has weakened state control of talent . The entailing price reduction has caused proliferation of these dual-purpose technologies in surveillance , drones , encryption , AI and genomics , accessible to unwanted , state and non-state actors ; e ) social media-savvy Millennials and Generation Z under the globe-sweeping currents of ' populism ' are defending citizenry against state control , upending the national security paradigms ; f ) cyber-crime in the technology-rich environment under hacker-soldiers is becoming ubiquitous threat to states , multinational companies and even influential individuals ; g ) given that there is no agreed code of conduct for conflict over the ' four global commons ' ( outer space , high seas , atmosphere and Antarctica ) , the potential conflict may be unregulated , hence may spin out of control . <p> The nom-de-gore assigned to the prevalent mode of warfare is " Hybrid Warfare " . It loosely means the application of military and non-military force ( especially media including SMNs , IT , espionage , surveillance , propaganda and perception management , etc ) to target military and non-military components of an adversary . In relational terms , war in Europe and the broader Sino-Russia-Iran-North Korea versus the US comflict ( competition plus conflict ) has and would hamper global economic potential , gravitating the global economic order towards Asia , which has remained relatively unscathed during the Corona pandemic and the ravages of recent wars . <p> States monopoly over violence will weaken , due to outsourcing of war to public-private enterprise , and cheaper availability of tools of warfare to non-state actors and proxy forces . As a consequence , the less capable , weak and less sophisticated global south and other actors would resort to asymmetric capabilities , employing what is called the " gray-zone tactics " - using incremental aggression , information warfare , proxy forces and covert special operations , without tripping adversary 's large-scale conventional response . Large scale wars between conventional armies , as we have known , may phase out . <p> Environmentally , rising temperatures would negatively affect health , economic productivity and basing of military forces , necessitating stand-off application of military force , as preferred option . Water scarcity , greater urbanization and weather-induced migrations would enhance violence . Such war fighting requires substantial security resources . Mega cities complicate differentiating military and civilian targets , particularly for air power and other stand-off weapons . The widespread destruction in the Middle East by the Israeli Air power and other stand-off munitions is incidental as well as intentional . <p> The emergence of " Virtual Societal Warfare " enabled by advanced IT/SMNs , morphing into cyber-aggression , in order to manipulate and disrupt economic and social order has and would increase in scope . Non-attributable misinformation and disinformation and fake content these days is a harbinger of things expected . <p> " Battlefield Swarming " using low-cost technological tools would possibly address the asymmetry between belligerents to some extent , as cited earlier . Iran 's response to Israel more recently is an example . The emerging technologies - robotics , AI , unmanned systems , data manipulation and networking , etc - would need compatible military policies , doctrine , operational strategy , training and force-development strategy . AI is one such disruptive technologies with no state monopolising its access . Cyberspace is beginning to become the primary arena of espionage with more data digitisation and cloud-based storage . There is already talk about possible deployment of space-based weapons including nukes . <p> During the Sino-India stand-off in Aksai Chin in October 2022 , this scribe maintained the near impossibility of a broader Sino-India war due to ' difference in potential ' . However , with Pakistan , India will continue its policy of attempted politico-military coercion , incremental operational/tactical escalation , economic strangulation and diplomatic legitimacy for its behaviour . India will continue to employ extensive perception-management tools like SMNs , deep and shallow fakes , AI-driven " social bots " , etc . <p> Our strategic conundrum of preparing for future war , and inability to completely break from conventional mode , under a challenged economic situation , can be resolved through a bold and aggressive nuclear policy . Through increased range , precision and stand-off in the air-delivered , sea-launched or even ground-based weapons , Pakistan can comfortably maintain a credible second-strike alternative-platform capability . Modi and his hysterical mob know no other language . It is now or never ! 
@@119273830 <h> Hamas , Israel trade barbs over truce delay <p> Hamas and Israel traded accusation on Wednesday over delays in finalising a ceasefire and hostage release deal , after both had reported progress in the latest round of Gaza truce talks . <p> Indirect negotiations mediated by Qatar , Egypt and the United States have taken place in Doha in recent days , rekindling hope for an agreement between the two warring parties that has so far proven elusive . <p> On Wednesday , both sides accused the other of throwing up roadblocks . <p> Palestinian militant group Hamas said in a statement that " the ceasefire and prisoner exchange negotiations are continuing in Doha under the mediation of Qatar and Egypt in a serious manner . " <p> But , it added , Israel " has set new conditions " which have " delayed reaching an agreement " . <p> Hamas said the Israeli demands concern troop withdrawal , the terms of the proposed ceasefire and the potential release of prisoners held in Israeli jails , as well as " the return of displaced people " to their homes in Gaza . <p> It did not specify what the Israeli conditions were . <p> Israel swiftly refuted the accusations , saying it was Hamas that was creating " new obstacles " to an agreement . <p> " Hamas is once again lying , reneging on understandings already reached , and continuing to create new obstacles in the negotiations , " said a statement from the office of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . <p> Just days ago , both sides had reported progress . <p> Netanyahu on Monday told a parliament session that there had been " some progress " in the talks , and a day later his office said Israeli negotiators had returned from Qatar after " significant negotiations " . <p> On Saturday , Hamas and two other Palestinian groups said in a joint statement that a ceasefire agreement was " closer than ever " , but cautioned that it would only be possible if Israel did not impose new conditions . <p> In Israel , critics of Netanyahu including relatives of some of the dozens of hostages still in captivity in Gaza have accused the prime minister of stalling . <p> On Wednesday , a group of family members of Gaza hostages urged Netanyahu to secure a deal to bring their loved ones homes . <p> " It 's time to bring them back , Netanyahu . It 's up to you , " said Sharon Sharabi , whose two brothers were abducted during the Hamas attack last year . One of them has died in captivity , according to the Israeli military . <p> " It 's about time , do n't wait , " said Sharabi , reading out a statement at Tel Aviv 's Hostages Square . <p> Efforts to strike a truce and hostage release deal in numerous rounds of indirect talks have repeatedly failed over key stumbling blocks . <p> Israel and Hamas have agreed just one truce in more than 14 months of war . 
@@119273899 <p> SANAA : Yemen 's Houthi rebels said Wednesday that they had fired a ballistic missile and two drones at Israel , days after an attack on Tel Aviv wounded 16 people . <p> Israel 's military said it intercepted the missile and that one drone " fell in an open area " after sirens sounded in the country 's south , near the Gaza Strip . <p> " The UAV ( drone ) force of the Yemeni Armed Forces carried out two military operations " targeting Israel 's commercial hub of Tel Aviv and the southern city of Ashkelon , a Houthi military statement said . <p> The missile was also aimed at the Tel Aviv area , the Houthis announced earlier . The Israelis said it was shot down before it entered Israeli territory . <p> A Houthi military statement said the attack was carried out " using a hypersonic ballistic missile , type Palestine 2 " . 
@@119273900 <p> GAZA STRIP : Hamas accused Israel on Wednesday of imposing " new conditions " that it said were delaying a ceasefire agreement in the war in Gaza , though it acknowledged negotiations were still ongoing . <p> Israel has made no public statement about any new conditions in its efforts to secure the release of hostages seized on October 7 , 2023 . <p> Indirect talks between Israel and Hamas , mediated by Qatar , Egypt and the United States , have taken place in Doha in recent days , rekindling hope for a truce deal that has proven elusive . <p> " The ceasefire and prisoner exchange negotiations are continuing in Doha under the mediation of Qatar and Egypt in a serious manner ... but the occupation has set new conditions concerning withdrawal ( of troops ) , the ceasefire , prisoners , and the return of displaced people , which has delayed reaching an agreement , " the Palestinian group said in a statement . <p> On Monday , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told parliament that there was " some progress " in the talks , and on Tuesday his office said Israeli representatives had returned from Qatar after " significant negotiations " . <p> Last week , Hamas and two other Palestinian groups -- Islamic Jihad and the leftist Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine -- said in a rare joint statement that a ceasefire agreement was " closer than ever " , provided Israel did not impose new conditions . <p> Efforts to strike a truce and hostage release deal have repeatedly failed over key stumbling blocks . <p> Despite numerous rounds of indirect talks , Israel and Hamas have agreed just one truce , which lasted for a week at the end of 2023 . <p> Negotiations have faced multiple challenges since then , with the primary point of disagreement being the establishment of a lasting ceasefire in Gaza . <p> Another unresolved issue is the governance of post-war Gaza . <p> It remains a highly contentious issue , including within the Palestinian leadership . <p> Israel has said repeatedly that it will not allow Hamas to run the territory ever again . <p> In an interview with The Wall Street Journal last week , Netanyahu said : " I 'm not going to agree to end the war before we remove Hamas . " <p> He added Israel is " not going to leave them in power in Gaza , 30 miles from Tel Aviv . It 's not going to happen . " <p> Netanyahu has also repeatedly stated that he does not want to withdraw Israeli troops from the Philadelphi Corridor , a strip of land cleared and controlled by Israel along Gaza 's border with Egypt . 
@@119274010 <h> Christmas in Gaza <p> As Christmas arrives this year and is celebrated by millions across the world , those of us fortunate enough to sit in warm homes surrounded by our loving families must not forget the millions in Palestine enduring unimaginable oppression . The land where Jesus was born , where Christianity first took root , and where ancient sects of Christianity still practice their faith has been transformed into a slaughterhouse . Here , Christians , Muslims , and even Orthodox anti-Zionist Jews are killed with impunity . This is not a war , nor has it been one for decades . <p> What unfolds in Palestine is a slow , calculated extermination of a people who have lived there for thousands of years . This Christmas , the shocking reality is that the values at the heart of Christianity -- compassion , selflessness , and care for one another -- appear to have been abandoned by many Western nations . In their place , greed , corporate interests , and self-serving agendas dictate actions , eclipsing any sense of morality or justice . <p> In Gaza , children are shot by snipers , the elderly are crushed under tanks , mothers are assassinated by drones , and entire communities in makeshift tent cities are incinerated by bombs designed to destroy bunkers . All of this unfolds under the shadow of a relentless siege , where food , water , medicine , and basic supplies are denied entry , starving an already besieged population . <p> This Christmas , we must confront the grim truth : as a global community , as a species , and as humanity , we have failed some of the most vulnerable people on this planet . We have allowed the powerful to trample the weak with impunity , turning a blind eye to atrocities that defy the very essence of humanity . <p> Regardless of legality or national interest , what is happening in Palestine is an affront to the core principles of decency and justice . It is a moral stain that must not be ignored , now or in the future . This season of reflection should compel us to remember that true humanity lies in standing with those who have no voice and no shield against cruelty . 
@@119274112 <p> Prime Minister Muhammad Shehbaz Sharif has called for promoting peace and brotherhood , and ending discrimination and divides . <p> Addressing a special Christmas ceremony at Prime Minister House , Islamabad this afternoon , he said we should treat our minority communities with love and respect so they recognize themselves as dignified citizens of the country . <p> Regretting that the Holy birthplace of Hazrat Isa ( A.S ) is mired in war and bloodshed , Shehbaz Sharif emphasized joint action to put an end to war in Gaza . <p> He said in line with Hazrat Isa 's mission of peace and tolerance , Christians across the world should play their role for ceasefire in Gaza . <p> The Prime Minister said Christian community in Pakistan has always lived with peace and brotherhood , and have been rendering valuable sacrifices since the country 's independence . <p> He said let us work together for the progress of our country which is a homeland for all communities . <p> He assured the minorities that their welfare and prosperity is one of the topmost priorities of the government . <p> The Prime Minister commended the choir of young girls who performed a beautiful Christmas carol at the ceremony . <p> He also cut a Christmas cake on the occasion . <p> Earlier , addressing the event , Minister for Information and Broadcasting Attaullah Tarar paid rich tribute to the Christian community for their contributions in the progress and development of the country . <p> He said the Christian community has always upheld the honour of Pakistan 's national flag both through their dedicated services and noble sacrifices . <p> Attaullah Tarar spoke with great reverence for martyr Haroon William of Pak Army who sacrificed his life for the cause of the country and was laid to rest with full honours , draped in the national flag . <p> The Minister especially eulogized Brigadier Helen Marry Roberts , the first female Christian Brigadier of Pakistan Army and said she is an epitome of the meritorious services of Christian community to the country . <p> He mentioned with pride the three athletes-Sohail sisters , who won twenty two medals for Pakistan in international competitions . <p> Attaullah Tarar said he represents a constituency of over 70,000 Christians in the National Assembly and has received immense love from them . 
@@119274145 <p> ISLAMABAD : Prime Minister ( PM ) Shehbaz Sharif said that the welfare and prosperity of minorities in Pakistan are among the topmost priorities of the government . <p> Addressing a special Christmas ceremony at Prime Minister House , PM Shehbaz called for promoting peace and brotherhood , and ending discrimination and divides . <p> He said that the holy birthplace of Hazrat Isa ( AS ) is mired in war and bloodshed and emphasised joint action to put an end to war in Gaza . <p> He said in line with Hazrat Isa 's ( AS ) mission of peace and tolerance , Christians across the world should play their role for ceasefire in Gaza . <p> PM Shehbaz said Christian community in Pakistan has always lived with peace and brotherhood , and have been rendering valuable sacrifices since the country 's independence . <p> " Let us work together for the progress of our country which is a homeland for all communities , " he added . <p> PM Shehbaz also commended the choir of young girls who performed a beautiful Christmas carol at the ceremony . <p> The prime minister quoted Quaid-e-Azam 's statement saying , " Protection and promotion of minorities rights has been our top priority . You all are the proud citizens of Pakistan . Your equal development and progress is the basic point of our fundamental agenda . I extend you the felicitations of Christmas and ensure that your protection , security and prosperity is not only dear to us but our responsibility . " <p> Earlier , addressing the event , Minister for Information and Broadcasting Attaullah Tarar paid rich tribute to the Christian community for their contributions in the progress and development of the country . <p> He said the Christian community has always upheld the honour of Pakistan 's national flag both through their dedicated services and noble sacrifices . <p> Attaullah Tarar spoke with great reverence for martyr Haroon William of Pak Army who sacrificed his life for the cause of the country and was laid to rest with full honours , draped in the national flag . <p> The minister especially eulogized Brigadier Helen Marry Roberts , the first female Christian Brigadier of Pakistan Army and said she is an epitome of the meritorious services of Christian community to the country . <p> He mentioned with pride the three athletes-Sohail sisters , who won twenty two medals for Pakistan in international competitions . <p> Attaullah Tarar said he represents a constituency of over 70,000 Christians in the National Assembly and has received immense love from them . He vowed to make all out efforts for the welfare of the minorities . <h> ABOUT US <p> ARY NEWS brings you 24/7 Live Streaming , Headlines , Bulletins , Talk Shows , Infotainment , and much more . Watch minute-by-minute updates of current affairs and happenings from Pakistan and all around the world ! 
@@119285062 <h> President Asif Zardari and Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif have extended heartfelt greetings to the Christian community <p> Christian communities across Pakistan on Wednesday celebrate Xmas with traditional zeal and fervour . <p> In Karachi , the central celebration was held at St. Patrick 's Church , drawing a large gathering of worshippers . Comprehensive security measures were implemented at various churches throughout the city to ensure a safe and peaceful event . <p> In Lahore , the festivities included the cutting of a 100-pound cake at St. Luke 's Church in Shahdara . Similar celebrations were held in Bahawalpur , Quetta , Multan , Sargodha , and Lodhran , where churches organized prayer gatherings under stringent security arrangements . <p> In Multan , 1,300 police personnel were deployed to safeguard churches as the community commemorated the day with religious fervour . <p> Addressing a special Christmas ceremony at Prime Minister House , Islamabad this afternoon Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif emphasized the need for collective efforts towards peace , progress , and prosperity , stating , " In my opinion , we all should work together for peace , progress and prosperity " . <p> The Prime Minister noted that both Prophet Isa ( Jesus ) and his mother , Maryam ( Mary ) , are honoured in the Holy Quran , underscoring their significance to Muslims . He expressed concern over the violence in Bethlehem , the birthplace of Prophet Isa , where he remarked that " murder and brutality are rampant today , and thousands of Palestinians have been killed " . <p> He urged the international community to speak out against Israel 's actions and advocate for a ceasefire in Gaza . <p> PM Shehbaz also celebrated the contributions of the Christian community in Pakistan , highlighting their peaceful coexistence and achievements in various sectors such as education and national defence . He recognized notable figures like former Chief Justice Alvin Robert Cornelius and human rights activist Cecil Chaudhry . <p> In his address , he called for fostering brotherhood and urged citizens to practice patience and tolerance , advocating for the respectful treatment of religious minorities so they feel proud to be part of the nation . <p> Meanwhile , Chief of Army Staff General Asim Munir extended heartfelt greetings to the Christian community and expressed solidarity with them while attending Christmas festivities at St. Joseph Catholic Cathedral Church in Rawalpindi . <p> In his message , president Asif Ali Zardari said that the spirit of Christmas offered a universal lesson to humanity , encouraging people of all faiths to embrace love , generosity , mercy , unity , and hope . <p> Zardari said that Pakistan 's Constitution guaranteed the fundamental rights of all citizens , irrespective of their faith , and protected their freedom to worship and live following their beliefs . <p> I am a freelance journalist with a Master 's Degree in Mass Communication and an MS in Peace and Conflict Studies . Since 2006 , I have been involved in various capacities within the electronic media industry . At OyeYeah , I cover diverse genres ranging from journalism and fiction to fashion , including reviews and fact-finding reports . <p> OyeYeah is an entertainment project powered by Alliancez Inc . We 're motivated to digging up fresh , authentic news . Oye Yeah does not work on rumors ! We have all sourced news because we believe in bringing our readers the best . We have a vision and we 're striving hard to achieve it day in , day out ! 
@@119285121 <h> Biden 's move undermines strategic stability in South Asia <p> AT a time while the whole Pakistani nation is profoundly aggrieved and concerned about Israel 's ongoing atrocities in Gaza , the outgoing Biden Administration 's move to impose sanctions on Pakistan 's long range ballistic missile programme by pointing finger on the role of four Pakistani entities is seen by many in Islamabad policy and strategic circles as Washington 's unfair policy demonstration to achieve its geopolitical objectives . Since 2008 , both New Delhi and Washington have been cultivating the benefits of strategic cooperation with the signing of 123 Agreement . In the pretext of maintaining a non-proliferation nuclear regime , the US sanctions move undermines the South Asian strategic stability . This is an unjust and biased US move carrying serious implications for the South Asian strategic landscape . <p> Arguably , by no means Pakistan 's long range Ballistic Missile Program poses any threat to the US security as apprehended by the Biden Administration 's officials . While speaking at Carnegie Endowment , the US Deputy National Security Advisor ( DNSA ) Jonathan Finer described Pakistan 's advance Missile Program , long range ballistic missile as an emerging threat to US security as it is capable of striking beyond South Asia , including the US . The US expert on South Asia , Michael Kugelman , took this remark seriously as it doubles down trust-deficit in Pak-US relations . Clearly , it is the US ' strategic and geopolitical tactic to pressurize Pakistan . This development needs to be fairly examined . <p> It is an undeniable fact that since 2006 with the passing of the Hyde Act by the US Congress modifying the US domestic law , to allow nuclear cooperation with India , thereby further growing their nuclear cooperation via US-India nuclear energy cooperation ( largely manifested in the 123 agreement ) , India has largely expanded its nuclear weapons programme by mounting threats to Pakistan 's national security and sovereignty . The 2008 nuclear deal was further enhanced in the Obama- Modi meeting in 2016 when both the US and India agreed to build six-US designed reactors in India . <p> The US demonstrated nuclear role -- in South Asia via its strategic manipulation of nuclear relationship -- is aimed to achieve geopolitical objectives . Given the history , the both US Administrations -- Democratic and Republican -- have systematically extended their nuclear policy reservations towards Pakistan 's strategic program thereby limiting Washington 's nuclear engagement with Pakistan while broadening its nuclear cooperation with India as the US has been unjustly favouring India 's NSG bid . The truth is that the US-India nuclear cooperation has resulted in creating a perceived strategic imbalance in the South Asian region where Pakistan is compelled to maintain its nuclear deterrent capabilities in juxtaposition of the emerging strategic threats from India . In this regard , the US current sanctions on the Pakistani entities have raised concerns in Pakistan as it undermines strategic stability in the region . The US has been criticized for imposing sanctions on Pakistan 's missile development programs while showing a more favourable stance towards India 's missile capabilities . <p> Since 1990 , with the Pressler Amendment , Pakistan , time and again , remained a victim of US toxic legacy of sanctions . Notably , since 2014 , Washington has been imposing sanctions on Pak BMD Program . Whereas , since 2014 , India has been significantly expanding its Ballistic Missile Defence ( BMD ) program , working towards a multi-layered defense system to protect against ballistic missile threats . This expansion has occurred in the context of strengthening its strategic partnership with the United States and enhancing its overall defence capabilities . <p> So far , India has marked significant advancements in its Ballistic Missile Defense ( BMD ) system , including the successful testing of various missile variants such as the Prithvi Air Defence ( PAD ) and other systems . Additionally , India has enhanced its capabilities through the acquisition of systems like the Russian-made S-400 anti-missile system and other indigenous systems like Akash , SPYDER and MR-SAM . Today , India 's BMD delivery system unlimitedly consists of land-based , submarine-launched and strategic bombers . And yet in contrast to the Indian advancement in its BMD system , the Biden Administration imposed sanctions on four Pakistan entities and three Chinese and one Belarus companies in September 2024 . Now , in December 2024 , the Biden Administration has once again imposed sanctions on the Pakistani entities : the National Development Complex ( NDC ) , Akhtar and Sons Private Limited , Affiliates International , and Rockside Enterprise , accusing their alleged role in the BMD programme . Controversially , the newly imposed sanctions on the Pakistani entities are aimed to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons and their means of delivery , the US true leitmotif is to tactically establish India 's nuclear profile supremacy in the region . Ominously on 11 March , 2024 , in violation of its agreement with Pakistan , India tested an ICBM Agni-v ( MRIV ) missile ranging 7000 km . But Washington took no notice on this development ( undermining strategic stability in South Asia ) ) despite the fact that Islamabad had chartered its strong reservations over this Indian initiative . <p> Regrettably , the two South Asian declared nuclear powers -- India and Pakistan -- are entertained differently by the US domestic law which is a hawkish demonstration of US policy of double standard and nuclear apartheid in the South Asian region . With regard to this highly discriminatory US sanctions move which dangerously undermines South Asian strategic stability , Pakistan Foreign Office has expressed its deep and profound regret over the Biden administration 's move of sanctioning four Pakistani entities . " The latest installment of sanctions defies the objective of peace and security by aiming to accentuate military asymmetries , " the MOFA said . <p> For years , Pakistan 's stance has been loud and clear that ' ' our strategic program and allied capabilities are solely meant to deter and thwart a clear and visible existential threat from our neighbourhood and should not be perceived as threat to any other country ' ' . Needless to say , given the imperatives of our national security-cum-sovereignty strongly affiliated with the South Asian strategic stability , Islamabad will remain profoundly committed and determined to safeguard its strategic interests . <p> -- The writer , based in Pakistan , an independent IR &amp; International Law analyst , also an expert in Conflict and Peace Studies ( with special focus on Palestine , Kashmiar ) , is member of European Consortium of Political Research ( ECPR ) , including the Washington Foreign Law Society/American Society of International Law . He also deals with the strategic issues . 
@@119285122 <h> The new brand of East India Company <p> LOYALTY to any individual or political party , must never overshadow loyalty to Pakistan and neither should the ambitions of the paid elite . They all exist because of Pakistan and not vice versa . It is time for introspection by each one of us , especially political leadership including IK , MNS , AZ and members of the paid elite to ask , what John F Kennedy stated " Ask not what your country can do for you- ask what you can do for your country " . Not many within ruling elite , including those presently at helm and all others who have held power since 1956 onwards , can honestly state that they have delivered , what each one of them owed to Pakistan . For the sake of posterity , our identity and that of our own kith and kin , survival of Pakistan as a sovereign independent state is very vital . <p> In 1757 Mir Syed Jafer who served as commander in Bengal 's army , betrayed Sirajud Duala , by conspiring with Robert Clive in the Battle of Plassey , to facilitate East India Company 's entry into India . They rewarded Mir Jafer to ascend to the " masnad " after their victory . Betrayal was in the DNA of Mir Jafer , who in 1758 , conspired with Dutch colonialists and this ultimately led to his abdication and replacement by his son-in-law Qasim . However , Mir Jaffer was ultimately restored as Nawab in 1763 . Colonialists , irrespective of whether they were British or Dutch , believed in the pedigree of human-beings and preferred those willing to succumb to temptation and greed and had no pangs of conscience in betraying their motherland . The descendants of the likes of Tipu Sultan were either wiped out , or deprived of their belongings and titles , while the likes of Mir Jafer were rewarded . Maj Gen Iskandar Mirza was a direct descendent of Mir Jaffer and he conspired with AK to derail the democratic process . This country has suffered , because it failed to cleanse the stables of the rot , left behind the Colonial Raj . Pakistan suffers today because of the compromises made by the mediocrity that came at helm after the unfortunate death of Quaid-e-Azam in September 1948 . <p> Pakistan 's Defensive Nuclear Deterrence was acquired in response to India 's underground test at Pokhran on May 18 1974 , followed by explosion of five nuclear devices between 11 and 13 May 1998 . The Indian Home Minister L. K. Advani stated " Islamabad should realize the change in the geo-strategic situation in the region and the world . It must roll back its anti-India policy especially with regard to Kashmir " . This was a very threatening message , after acquiring nuclear capability . Given India 's role in 1971 debacle , this was enough to raise alarm bells in Pakistan . ZAB realized gravity of the situation . He was of the opinion that in a conventional war , Pakistan lacked capacity to counter India 's hegemony and evil designs . It goes to his credit that he hosted Islamic Conference at Lahore between 22nd to 24 February 1974 . He was aware that India planned to carry out nuclear tests shortly . It is believed that he discussed Pakistan 's apprehensions in sideline meetings held between Shah Faisal , Muammar Qaddafi , where they committed to fund this project . All three of them were later killed by CIA , through their proxies . Pakistan 's sole effective defence capability , against a bigger and more powerful enemy , which has never accepted creation of Pakistan , is our nuclear assets . It is India specific , given their threatening posture and nobody else . Any compromise on this , whatever maybe the compulsions , or offers of monetary assistance , or circumstances faced by any political party , it is not an option to be exercised . This should be loud and clear to all within the country or abroad . <p> The powerful Zionist Lobby in Washington and Tel Aviv have been vocal in their opposition and desire to neutralize Pakistan 's Nuclear Defence Deterrence capability , although Pakistan has made it clear at international forums that this is solely for our defence against India . Even a relatively weaker PM , could not dare to succumb to intense pressure of economic and military sanctions , threatened by President Clinton , who personally came to Pakistan to warn the federal government . Given this background , there is no justification , whatsoever for PTI US , based in Houston , to openly welcome sanctions on Pakistan 's Ballistic Missile delivery system , recently announced by the Biden Administration . Sajid Burki 's tweet on X that " The beginning of sanctions against the regime in Pakistan that is busy terrorizing people of Pakistan , rather than paying attention to the security issues of that country " , is uncalled-for and can not be justified . <p> The fact is that this unjustified American response was instigated by powerful Zionist Lobby in connivance with Indian Lobby and can not be a consequence of PTI America lobbying , as they are trying to project . This tweet by S Burki was to appease AIPAC and Indian Lobby and win some brownie points . Greed and temptation have led a few people astray , but they have rarely crossed this red line , where national security is compromised . These sanctions , in all probability were already under process of Biden Administration and there was no reason for PTI to get involved in this malicious anti-Pakistan campaign . PTI Pakistan and its popular leader Imran Khan must publicly disown this stance by S Burki and terminate his basic membership , as was done in the case of Salman Ahmed , the popular singer , associated with Janoon Group , who was one of the founding members of PTI . The reasons for termination of Salman 's membership are trivial as compared to acts of Sajad Burki . As long as Hindu extremists , with links to extremist Zionists led by Netanyahu , are at helm in India , Pakistan needs to be very careful . Netanyahu has committed the worst genocide in Gaza . No sane Muslim should be even remotely linked with condoning or welcoming sanctions on Pakistan 's defence capability . PTI and IK owe this to Pakistan which has benefitted him , far more than many others . 
@@119285128 <h> Islam 's dominance in all spheres of life inevitable : Ameer ul-Azeem <p> Secretary-General of Jamaat-e-Islami Pakistan Ameer ul-Azeem , emphasized the importance of Islam 's supremacy in all aspects of life during his speech at a family gathering in Orangi Town , Karachi . He stated that for Islamabad to thrive , the leadership must be honest , accountable , and responsible , and the country must be governed by leaders who adhere to Islamic values . <p> He pointed out that the future of Pakistan and Islamic movements globally lies with Jamaat-e-Islami , noting that the party 's vision of a just and prosperous society was the key to Pakistan 's development . " Jamaat-e-Islami should not be measured by the number of votes but by the strength of its ideology . The leadership and vision of Jamaat-e-Islami are the hope for the entire Muslim Ummah , " said Ameer ul-Azeem . <p> He further stressed the importance of a truthful leadership that would restore the Islamic values upon which Pakistan was founded , warning against the current divisions that have led to the downfall of many nations . Dr. Osama Rizvi , the Deputy Amir of Jamaat-e-Islami , also addressed the gathering , highlighting the ongoing genocide of the people of Gaza and Palestine . <p> He condemned the lack of action from Muslim rulers and announced a " Palestine Solidarity Million March " to be held in Islamabad on December 29 to show solidarity with the Palestinian people . During the event , Ameer ul-Azeem reminded the audience of the importance of unity and the necessity for a genuine Islamic governance system . <p> He urged the attendees to remain active in spreading the true message of Islam and to work for the implementation of Islamic laws in every aspect of life . The gathering also featured notable figures such as Maulana Abdul Haq Hashmi , Sheikh Usman Farooq , and other senior leaders of Jamaat-e-Islami . At the end of the event , several leaders were awarded shields in recognition of their services to the party . 
@@119303350 <h> UN force sounds alarm over Israeli ' destruction ' in south Lebanon <p> The United Nations ' peacekeeping force in Lebanon expressed concern on Thursday at the " continuing " damage done by Israeli forces in the country 's south despite a ceasefire in the war with Hezbollah . <p> The truce went into effect on November 27 , about two months after Israel stepped up its bombing campaign and later sent troops into Lebanon following nearly a year of exchanges of cross-border fire initiated by Hezbollah over the war in Gaza . <p> The warring sides have since traded accusations of violating the truce . <p> Under the ceasefire agreement , UNIFIL peacekeepers and the Lebanese army were to redeploy in south Lebanon , near the Israeli border , as Israeli forces withdrew over 60 days . UNIFIL said in a statement on Thursday that " there is concern at continuing destruction by the IDF ( army ) in residential areas , agricultural land and road networks in south Lebanon " . <p> The statement added that " this is in violation of Resolution 1701 " , which was adopted by the UN Security Council and ended the last Israel-Hezbollah war of 2006 . <p> The UN force also reiterated its call for " the timely withdrawal " of Israeli troops from Lebanon , and " the full implementation of Resolution 1701 " . <p> The resolution states that Lebanese troops and UN peacekeepers should be the only forces in south Lebanon , where Hezbollah exerts control , and also calls for Israeli troops to pull out of Lebanese territory . <p> " Any actions that risk the fragile cessation of hostilities must cease , " UNIFIL said . 
@@119303370 <p> Senator Irfan Siddiqui , Parliamentary Party Leader of the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz ( PML-N ) in the Senate and a member of the government 's committee for negotiations with PTI , has stated that convictions and sentences in May 9 cases should not impact the negotiation process . <p> In an interview with a private news channel , the senior PML-N leader highlighted that on the very first day of negotiations , the interior ministry was directed to facilitate PTI 's committee in meeting Imran Khan . " We want this facilitation to continue in the future , " Siddiqui added . <p> He praised the positive atmosphere of the initial meeting , describing it as a good opening . " The fact that we are sitting together is itself a significant breakthrough , " he remarked . <p> Siddiqui also noted that PTI , having been in government , understands the constitutional and legal processes involved in releasing individuals from jail . He clarified that the government has not set any limits on how far these negotiations can progress . <p> When asked about the sentencing of 60 individuals by field general court-martials and its potential impact , Siddiqui said that imprisonment can not be considered a deadlock and the convictions and sentences in May 9 cases should not impact the negotiation process . <p> " In the past , prominent political leaders have endured long periods of imprisonment . Talks began despite Imran Khan himself being convicted , " he pointed out . <p> Siddiqui explained that PTI initiated the dialogue process when Imran Khan assigned the task to his negotiation committee , which then contacted the National Assembly Speaker . Subsequently , Ayaz Sadiq reached out to the government , leading to the start of discussions . <p> He stated that the negotiation process is driven by PTI and that external factors should not influence the discussions happening within the " constitutional room " where the committee meets . <p> Addressing the issue of political instability , Siddiqui dismissed the notion that Imran Khan 's presence is causing unrest in any part of the country . <p> " We are praying for the success of these negotiations and are willing to go the extra mile to achieve it . However , even if , God forbid , this effort fails , Pakistan will continue to progress with the same vigor , " he said . <p> When asked about Khan 's acknowledgment of the government 's efforts to prevent Pakistan from defaulting , Siddiqui expressed gratitude . " We thank him for recognising Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif 's efforts , " he added . <p> Responding to questions about the tweets and statements of Richard Allen Grenell , Siddiqui dismissed them as irrelevant . <p> " Pakistan 's policies are not shaped by Grenell 's tweets . He is a non-entity for us . We are already raising our voice for Aafia Siddiqui and are fully aware of injustices at places like Abu Ghraib , Guantanamo Bay , and Gaza , " he said . He added that even within the United States , those involved in the attack on Capitol Hill faced legal repercussions . <p> Concluding his remarks , Siddiqui stressed that decisions in Pakistan are made in accordance with the Constitution , law , and the country 's institutional framework , not under external influence . <p> Earlier , military courts have sentenced 60 more civilians to prison terms for their roles in violent attacks on military installations during the nationwide riots on May 9 , 2023 . Among those sentenced is Hassan Niazi , the nephew of former prime minister Imran Khan , who has been given a 10-year sentence . 
@@119303376 <h> Israeli airstrike kills five journalists in Gaza <p> Rescuers evacuate a wounded child at the site of an Israeli attack in a residential area in the Tuffah neighbourhood , east of Gaza City , on December 25 , 2024 . PHOTO : AFP <p> At least 38 more Palestinians , including five journalists , have been killed in Gaza in the past 24 hours , bringing the overall death toll in the region to 45,399 since October last year , according to Gaza 's Ministry of Health . <p> More than 107,000 people have been wounded in the ongoing conflict , Al-Jazeera reported . The attack on Thursday morning targeted a broadcast van near al-Awda Hospital in the Nuseirat refugee camp in central Gaza , killing five journalists from the al-Quds Today TV channel . <p> The victims were identified as Fadi Hassouna , Ibrahim al-Sheikh Ali , Mohammed al-Ladah , Faisal Abu al-Qumsan , and Ayman al-Jadi . Al-Jadi , who was waiting outside the hospital for his wife to give birth to their first child , was among those killed . <p> Civil defence teams later retrieved the bodies and extinguished a fire at the scene . The Israeli military claimed responsibility for the targeted strike , alleging the media vehicle was carrying members of the Palestinian group Islamic Jihad . However , Israel provided no evidence to support its claim . <p> The attack has drawn condemnation from press freedom organisations , with Gaza now being rated as the most dangerous place in the world for journalists . Israel has restricted access to foreign journalists , allowing only those embedded with the military into the besieged enclave . 
@@119303536 <h> 5 journalists killed in Israeli airstrike near Gaza hospital <p> Five journalists from the Al-Quds Today channel were killed early Thursday when an Israeli airstrike struck their broadcasting van near al-Awda Hospital in Gaza 's Nuseirat refugee camp , according to Palestinian officials and media reports . <p> The journalists were covering events at the hospital when the vehicle , marked with the word " PRESS " in large red letters , was hit . <p> Footage from the scene showed the van engulfed in flames as civil defense teams worked to recover the bodies and extinguish the fire . <p> The Israeli military confirmed the strike , saying it targeted a vehicle carrying members of Islamic Jihad . <p> " Prior to the attack , many steps were taken to reduce the chance of harming civilians , including the use of precision weapons , aerial observations and additional intelligence information , " the military said in a post on X. <p> The Committee to Protect Journalists ( CPJ ) condemned the killings , calling for accountability . <p> Israel has continued a genocidal war on Gaza that has killed nearly 45,400 people , most of them women and children , since a cross-border attack by the Palestinian group Hamas on Oct. 7 , 2023 . <p> Last month , the International Criminal Court issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant for war crimes and crimes against humanity in Gaza . 
@@119303540 <h> Ireland to keep raising voice for human rights , for freedom : Premier <p> On Christmas , the Irish taoiseach ( prime minister ) said his country must keep raising a voice for human rights , for freedom , for peace and for an end to violence . <p> In his Christmas Day message , Simon Harris said Ireland should continue to speak out against all the terrible conflicts and sufferings taking place in the world at a time when " we wish each other peace and joy . " <p> Also touching on some challenges that the Irish citizens faced during 2024 , he stated that there is much work to do to help with the housing crisis , to take real action on climate as well as on health service . <p> Ireland , which has recognized the state of Palestine , is one of the leading European nations standing with Palestinian people amid ongoing Israeli attacks . <p> Last month , Dublin announced its intention to join South Africa 's case against Israel at the International Court of Justice . <p> The Israeli onslaught on the Gaza Strip has killed over 45,300 people , mostly women and children , since Oct. 7 , 2023 . <p> Last month , the International Criminal Court issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant for war crimes and crimes against humanity in Gaza . 
@@119303552 <h> Peaceful Horizons <h> Today , the real , positive peace efforts are meagre . <p> As 2024 draws to an end , let us highlight some main events , remembering that there are opportunities too in the New Year 2025 . True , in the old year , many issues remained unresolved , such as the Russian war in Ukraine and the Israeli wars in Gaza and Lebanon , as well as several other conflicts , including the large one in Sudan , which has not been given full attention despite millions being affected and forced into displacement within their own country or abroad . Sadly , autocratic rule has become more common in many countries , increasing from about half the world 's nations ten years ago to over two-thirds today . In the West , democracy is also in need of renewal and strengthening . The new ultra-conservative parties , which are gaining support , must improve their respect for democracy and the rights of the poorest . The old , established parties must renew their ways of thinking and behaviour so that there will be less support for the ultra-conservatives . The social democrats and the centrist conservatives have a special duty to find new and popular ways , not just claim that they lack the right communication policies . <p> A few weeks ago , it was a positive surprise that the Bashar al-Assad regime in Syria was overthrown on 8 December 2024 . Finally , the quite eccentric leader 's 24-year-long , brutal government ended , along with his father 's 29 years in power before him . Now the difficult transition to a new and more democratic rule lies ahead in a country full of opposing groups and interests . Syria 's fall was also a defeat and setback to Russia 's role in the Middle East and its further operations in Africa . Iran , too , has now experienced a setback . Although Iran is founded on proud civilisations and cultures , its current regime struggles with moving into modern times to create optimism and a sustainable rule for the future . Israel has a similar problem , lacking sustainable policies and solutions for resolving the conflict with Palestine , having sunk deeper into a quagmire . I have serious doubts about the viability of the two-state solution as outlined in the 1993 Oslo Accords , and every time it is mentioned by foreign politicians , I feel there is little substance or concrete planning behind the words . Yet , a one-state solution can only be an alternative if there are international peacekeepers in the area for several decades to come . <p> In Ukraine , I believe that in 2025 we will see an end to the costly war with its tremendous loss of people and infrastructure . Hopefully , peace negotiations will begin as soon as President-elect Donald Trump is sworn in as the next president of the USA . There too , similar to the Israel-Palestine situation , I believe there will be a need for international peacekeepers and the establishment of a buffer between Russia and Ukraine . It is likely that some of Ukraine 's provinces now occupied by Russia will be administered by Russia for some time , but perhaps not permanently , except for Crimea . The West 's military alliance , NATO , is not likely to accept Ukraine as a member in the near future , as such an agreement must be unanimous , and several member countries would not yet vote affirmatively . Furthermore , others , so-called CIS countries in the region , need to sort out internal issues and long-term relations with Russia and the West , but they are at least partly doing well . <p> On this note , it is a fact that Russia itself , and the CIS countries , have not found their sustainable democratic political systems for the future , nor their political and economic cooperation in the region , with the West , and further afield . The relations between the West and Russia , and the other CIS countries , must be developed in realistic ways and in mutual understanding , including with China , the upcoming superpower , and with the USA , the waning yet strong superpower , and the EU . A stronger and more effective UN could and should play a more prominent role , which is hardly the case today -- and Trump says he is sceptical of the UN , probably mainly because he wants the USA to play a greater role in the world , including through direct , bilateral trade , political , and other relations with other countries . <p> In the West , there is an increased focus on rearmament and a quite unprecedented military build-up , in NATO and each of the 32 member countries . For a decade , it has been a target for all NATO member countries to spend two per cent of their GDP on defence , but now , there are suggestions that the percentage should be higher , even as high as five per cent . I believe it would be a very negative development if the West continues this thinking and action . True , in the world we live in , defence and security play an important role . However , alternatively , there should be broad efforts on peace creation and cooperation . Today , the real , positive peace efforts are meagre . If NATO 's thinking and actions are allowed to continue without active peaceful counter-actions , the world will become more dangerous and less peaceful , contrary to the propaganda and the prevailing Zeitgeist and worldview . Indeed , I believe that we need a paradigm shift and a new breed of politicians and thinkers -- and voters too -- who can usher in a different understanding of democracy and politics in today 's and tomorrow 's world . <p> Whereas we stand on the threshold of a better future for many countries , with an unparalleled quantity and quality of expertise and resources at a level that the world has not seen before , we simultaneously stand on the edge of the opposite , with right-wing political trends , more selfish government and individual and group thinking . We have also not solved the North-South relations after the colonial era ; rather , inequality is increasing between and within countries . Ordinary people 's work is not valued and paid as it should be , and our solidarity with the poor is not honoured . <p> Peace requires all the positive values in us all , and the way to peace and prosperity demands equality . It is proven that democracy is the best way to achieve development and peace within and between countries ; democracies rarely fight wars against each other , it has been observed . Also , the more we talk about democracy and peace , not rearmament , war , and conflict , the deeper the understanding of democracy and peace will develop in our minds and hearts , and through that , in the concrete political actions and administrative systems we establish . Hence , we must talk more about the right and good basic values , how to live together with all human beings , managing the world 's resources and environment . Negative talk , in everyday life , politics and so on , on social and traditional media , should be reduced and belong to the past . We must uplift and celebrate those who do the right thing . <p> Noting that we have already used up a quarter of the current century in the third millennium of our time , I wish and pray that we realise the urgency and begin to talk , teach and discuss more about peace and democracy , striving to make countries , regions , and the whole world more equal for all men and women . We have a duty to ourselves and our fellow human beings of today and tomorrow . That would indeed be doing God 's will , contributing to creating ' heaven on earth ' -- not quite perhaps , but at least being on the right track . <p> Dear Reader , I wish you a Happy New Year 2025 . <p> Atle HetlandThe writer is a senior Norwegian social scientist with experience from university , diplomacy and development aid . He can be reached at atlehetland@yahoo.com 
@@119303798 <p> ISLAMABAD : Jamaat-e-Islami ( JI ) announced the Gaza million march in the federal capital on December 29 to express solidarity with Palestinians who are facing oppression by Israel . <p> JI has been granted permission to hold the million march at Jinnah Avenue in New Blue Area following the negotiations with the district administration . <p> Two rounds of talks were held between JI and district administrations as JI wanted to conduct the million march in the city 's centre while the administration had been pressing to hold the show at Sangjani , Tirnol . <p> The development came as today a Palestinian TV channel said five of its journalists were martyred Thursday in an Israeli strike on their vehicle in Gaza . <p> A missile hit the journalists ' broadcast truck as it was parked in the Nuseirat refugee camp in central Gaza , according to a statement from their employer , Al-Quds Today . <p> The Israeli military claimed in its own statement that it had conducted " a precise strike on a vehicle with an Islamic Jihad cell inside in the area of Nuseirat " . <p> According to witnesses in Nuseirat , a missile fired by an Israeli aircraft hit the broadcast vehicle , which was parked outside Al-Awda Hospital , setting the vehicle on fire and killing those inside . <p> The Committee to Protect Journalists ' Middle East arm said the organisation was " devastated by the reports that five journalists and media workers were killed inside their broadcasting vehicle by an Israeli strike " . <p> " Journalists are civilians and must always be protected , " it added in a statement on social media . <p> The Palestinian Journalists Syndicate said last week that more than 190 journalists had been martyred and at least 400 injured since the start of the war in Gaza . <p> Israel 's military campaign has killed at least 45,361 people in Gaza , a majority of them civilians , according to figures from the territory 's health ministry that the UN considers reliable . <h> ABOUT US <p> ARY NEWS brings you 24/7 Live Streaming , Headlines , Bulletins , Talk Shows , Infotainment , and much more . Watch minute-by-minute updates of current affairs and happenings from Pakistan and all around the world ! 
@@119317667 <p> The Israeli military claimed that the strike targeted a " terrorist cell " from the Islamic Jihad group , which has been involved in the ongoing conflict since the October 7 , 2023 attack that escalated hostilities in the region . They asserted that precautions were taken to minimize civilian casualties prior to the strike . <p> However , witnesses reported that the vehicle was clearly marked with " PRESS " insignia , raising concerns about the targeting of journalists . <p> A funeral prayer for five journalists killed was offered outside a hospital in Gaza later in the day , according to its health ministry . <p> The incident has drawn widespread condemnation from various organizations , including the Committee to Protect Journalists ( CPJ ) , which emphasized that journalists are civilians and must be protected under international law . The Palestinian Journalists Syndicate noted that this incident brings the total number of journalists killed in Gaza since the onset of the war to over 200 . <p> Separately , an Israeli airstrike on a house in Gaza City 's Zeitoun neighbourhood killed five people and wounded 20 , medics said , warning the number of deaths could rise as many people remained trapped under the rubble . <p> OyeYeah is an entertainment project powered by Alliancez Inc . We 're motivated to digging up fresh , authentic news . Oye Yeah does not work on rumors ! We have all sourced news because we believe in bringing our readers the best . We have a vision and we 're striving hard to achieve it day in , day out ! 
@@119317695 <h> In a Christmas message , the Pope urges for " arms to be silenced . " <h> ROME : In his Christmas address on Wednesday , Pope Francis condemned the " extremely grave " humanitarian situation in Gaza and called for " arms to be silenced " globally . He also urged peace in the Middle East , Ukraine , and Sudan . <p> As Ukraine was hit by 170 Russian missiles and drones in a Christmas morning assault Kyiv called " inhumane , " Pope used his yearly letter to the 1.4 billion Catholics worldwide to urge negotiations for a just peace in the country . <p> Breathless , the 88-year-old pope also called for the release of Israeli prisoners held by Hamas in Gaza and a truce in the territory . <p> As thousands of worshippers gathered in front of St. Peter 's Basilica in Rome for the " Urbi et Orbi " ( " to the city and the world " ) address , he said , " I think of the Christian communities in Israel and Palestine , particularly in Gaza , where the humanitarian situation is extremely grave . " <p> In Gaza and Israeli-occupied Bethlehem , the birthplace of Jesus Christ , there are no festivities . <p> " May a ceasefire be established , the hostages be freed , and assistance be provided to those who have been weakened by the conflict and hunger . " <p> Francis ' appeal for peace was also directed at Sudan , where millions of people face famine after 20 months of bloody civil war . <p> With one energy worker dead in the 13th significant attack on the system this year , Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky blasted Russia for trying to destroy his nation 's damaged power grid . <p> " Putin attacked on Christmas on purpose , " he claimed . Is there anything more cruel ? More than 100 attack drones and more than 70 missiles , including ballistic missiles . In defiance of Moscow , Ukraine has celebrated Christmas on December 25 for the past two years instead of January 7 , when the majority of Orthodox Christians do . <p> But according to Russia , five persons were killed overnight by Ukrainian strikes on its territory , including one by a downed drone in the Caucasus nation of North Ossetia . <p> Bethlehem 's limited joyTragically , an Azerbaijan Airlines plane transporting 67 passengers from Baku to the Chechen capital Grozny crashed in western Kazakhstan on the feast day , according to officials . There have been reports of thirty-two survivors , but 35 more are thought to be dead . <p> In Bethlehem , an Israeli-occupied city in the West Bank and the biblical birthplace of Jesus , Christmas festivities were also subdued . <p> The Palestinian town has abandoned its enormous Christmas tree and the ornate decorations that often attract crowds of tourists since the start of the war in Gaza . <p> Anton Salman , the mayor of Bethlehem , stated , " This year we limited our joy . " <p> Speaking to a small group of people there on Tuesday , the Latin patriarch Archbishop Pierbattista Pizzaballa said he had recently returned from Gaza , where he " saw everything destroyed , poverty , disaster . " <p> However , I also seen life -- they never give up . Therefore , you too should n't quit up . Never . The silence was broken by a procession of scouts in the center of Bethlehem , at Manger Square . <p> They held signs that read , " Stop the genocide in Gaza now ! We want life , not death . " <p> A little more than two weeks after rebels overthrew President Bashar al-Assad , hundreds of protesters protested the burning of a Christmas tree in a Syrian village in the Christian neighborhoods of Damascus . <p> A protester who identified himself as George declared , " We do n't belong here anymore if we 're not allowed to live our Christian faith in our country as we used to . " <p> At a time when over half of Argentina 's population lives in poverty , a Christmas solidarity supper for the homeless in Buenos Aires provided food for almost 3,000 individuals . <p> Additionally , Christians in Paris attended the first Christmas liturgy at the Notre Dame church since it reopened after a devastating fire in 2019 . <h> PKKH ( Pakistan Ka Khuda Hafiz ) is a respected Pakistani news website offering accurate and comprehensive coverage of politics , culture , and global affairs . With a commitment to objective reporting and insightful analysis , PKKH provides readers with a well-rounded perspective on current events . The platform encourages community engagement and leverages digital technology to reach a wide audience , contributing to informed discussions and awareness . 
@@119317696 <h> According to medics , Israeli strikes on Gaza killed at least ten people , including five journalists . <h> Israeli strikes on Gaza killed at least 10 persons , including five journalists , and injured over a dozen others , according to Gaza health authorities ' medics , as reported by Reuters . <p> According to the doctors , an Israeli airstrike on a home in the Zeitoun neighborhood of Gaza City killed five persons and injured twenty more . They cautioned that since many individuals were still buried beneath the debris , the death toll might increase . <p> According to the enclave 's health authorities , five journalists were murdered in a different event when their car was hit near Al-Awda Hospital in Nuseirat , central Gaza . The journalists were employed by the television network Al-Quds Al-Youm . <p> According to local reporters and Palestinian media , the car was designated as a media van and was utilized by reporters to cover events from inside the Nuseirat camp and hospital . <p> The Israeli army claimed that members of the Islamic Jihad group were inside the car when its air force launched a " targeted attack . " <p> Israel is escalating attacks during the night , according to Gaza 's civil defense.Israeli forces have increased their strikes on civilian dwellings across the Gaza Strip in recent days , " especially at night , " according to a statement released by Gaza 's civil defense on Telegram , according to Al Jazeera . <p> According to the report , the attacks are happening quite near to one another , making it difficult for the civil defense to react quickly . <p> The report claimed that this has " caused an increase in the number of victims and martyrs . " <p> The announcement was made the day after Israeli forces killed a medic and his kid in an attack that destroyed the civil defense headquarters in Gaza City . <p> Israel 's continuous siege is also causing fuel and equipment shortages for the organization , which is in charge of emergency services and rescue efforts throughout the Gaza Strip . <h> PKKH ( Pakistan Ka Khuda Hafiz ) is a respected Pakistani news website offering accurate and comprehensive coverage of politics , culture , and global affairs . With a commitment to objective reporting and insightful analysis , PKKH provides readers with a well-rounded perspective on current events . The platform encourages community engagement and leverages digital technology to reach a wide audience , contributing to informed discussions and awareness . 
@@119337815 <h> 2024 : year of hypocrisy abroad and in Pakistan <p> The writer heads the independent Centre for Research and Security Studies , Islamabad <p> Listen to article <p> This piece is a personal reflection on the expedience and hypocrisy of current Western and Pakistani rulers . The latter fuming with anti-Imran Khan sentiment and complicit in moves that have defaced fundamental rights and stripped the judiciary off much of its independence . <p> If anything the year 2024 marked a new low in ( im ) morality both internationally as well as in Pakistan . It left an indelible blot on G7 nations for their indefensible hypocrisy - driven by geopolitical preferences - that killed and maimed tens of thousands in Gaza , Lebanon and Syria . Their near silence and continued support , which Jeremy Corbyn denounced as " Live Genocide " , blew the lid off the human rights and rule of law mantra that Western nations had so fondly peddled until Israel lunged in to demolition of Gaza and its millions of inhabitants in October 2023 . <p> As Israel pounded Palestinians , Lebanese and Syrians with bombs and laser guided missiles , the West showered it with billions of dollars - $17 billion in cash and arms in one year from the US alone . The 45,000 plus deaths in the regions mentioned above hardly mattered for the lead countries ' " unflinching support for and solidarity with Israel " . <p> The UK government did take some corrective action upon taking office in July 2024 . On 2 September , Foreign Secretary David Lammy announced the suspension of around 30 licences , out of about 350 , to Israel . He said that " for certain exports " the government had concluded there was a " clear risk " they " might be used to commit or facilitate a serious violation of international humanitarian law " . <p> Also in Germany , export approvals for Israel dropped to 161 million euros in 2024 , coinciding with a legal challenge by human rights groups concerned about the potential use of weapons in the Gaza war . Last year , Germany approved arms exports to Israel worth 326.5 million euros , including military equipment and war weapons , a 10-fold increase from 2022 , according to data from the economy ministry , which approves export licences . <p> Solidarity with an aggrieved minority group is one thing . Arming and supporting it unconditionally in a genocidal military aggression an altogether different conduct that defies the very principles the Western democracies teach and preach in developing countries . For all their pontifications on alleged human rights in Western China , almost all G7 nations literally indirectly sanctioned for Israel 's triangular assault on Gaza , Lebanon and Syria . <p> The warm welcome that the Hayat Tehrirul Sham ( HTS ) - a former Al-Qaeda /ISIS affiliate - received in the Western capitals and in Tel Aviv also stripped the geopolitical hypocrisy naked ; Afghan Taliban are still on the UN/US sanctions list , while HTS was welcomed and also taken off the terror list within days of seizing Damascus . Both Israel and Turkiye , it seems , joined hands in supporting their proxies to get rid of the brutal Assad regime but in the process also exposed the duplicity of international politics in which human rights and the rule of law are used as weapons . <p> These nations acted as silent spectators as Israel went about expelling Palestinians from their homeland and eventually moved into the demilitarised zone with Syria - an obvious move as part of realising the Greater Israel project . <p> In September this year , The Jerusalem Post even published an article with a map of the " Greater Israel as promised in the Torah " , only to remove it immediately after a controversy erupted based on what <p> And here at home , the year 2024 witnessed new lows in hypocritical politics - led by Shehbaz Sharif and Khawaja Asif , and willfully endorsed and amplified by stalwarts of PPP including Sharjeel Memon , Qadir Patel , Sherry Rehman and Bilawal Bhutto Zardari . <p> Both Defence Minister Asif and Senator Sherry Rehman first ridiculed Richard Grenell , the special envoy-designate by Donlad Trump for his unusual tweets on Imran Khan and then stooped to new levels . Sherry Rehman dismissed Grenell 's remarks on the military trials of civilians and called it an interference " in a well-established , independent judicial system of Pakistan " . Quite bizarre statement coming from a learned parliamentarian . <p> Asif stooped even further by linking Grenell 's remarks to " Operation Goldsmith for Release of Imran Khan " . <p> Asif 's insinuations obviously drew a sharp reaction - via X platform - from the British billionaire Zac Goldsmith : " This is the actual Defence Minister of Pakistan ? i.e. a grown man . He has invented something called ' operation goldsmith ' which apparently is in the business of recruiting people . I 'm not sure what for . But it sounds awful , and VERY Jewish . Looking at the exceedingly long list of crimes Mr Khawaja has been accused of during his political career I 'm not surprised by his behaviour ? As an aside , I 'm also not Israeli , or connected in any way to Israel . " <p> Nothing could be more embarrassing for Pakistanis than the reckless verbal innuendoes that federal ministers and their allies deploy , unmindful of the damage such conduct does to the image of Pakistan in general . Equally disgusting have been the kind of compromises the current parliamentarians have made in democratic rights and the judiciary , which today is divided and toothless like never before . 
@@119337872 <p> " The British are entitled always to mistrust other people " , AJP Taylor once wrote " but others are not entitled to mistrust the British . That is why England is known or was known abroad as ' Perfide Albion ' , because the British have two standards , one for themselves and one for other people " . <p> After the end of the Second capitalist War , when the financial bankruptcy forced the Britain to become American poodles , their successors embraced the entitlement with same vigour but not without giving it a Biblical twist of " with us or against us " , as they assumed the imperialist role conceded by the British . <p> For the US the division of the Middle East and Africa carried out by the British-French nexus was not enough . Hence , it decided to fragment the entire region called MENA ( Middle East-North Africa ) into small pieces favourable in fulfilling its imperialist designs . Initially ignoring both Israel and Pakistan , the massive US military-industrial complex whose lethality was alluded to by none other than the former US president Eisenhower decided to adapt these entities almost simultaneously and it immediately started paying the dividends . <p> Today , the entire world is watching in awe how contemptuously , a Zionist settler-colonial entity carved out in the heart of the Middle East to serve the dominant power 's interests flouting all the international laws and undermining the decisions of the International judicial courts brazenly is engaged in committing the genocide of Palestinians , bombing Lebanon , Yemen , Syria and has successfully dismembered not only a war-torn country but a civilization with the help of Erdogan , Netanyahu and Jihadi nexus led by Gollani , a declared terrorist , not only by Ankara , but by the UN and the American administration that kept a bounty of USD 10 billion on his head . <p> The entire tragedy could not have happened without the active collusion of Erdogan who like Netanyahu is seeking Lebensraum to expand the borders of his country to reinvent a caricature of an eclipsed Ottoman empire , a dream that will become a nightmare sooner than later . To push back the Kurdish forces in Syria allied to the Kurdistan Workers Party ( PKK ) was Erdogan 's other interest . To his dismay the Kurdish forces are beseeching the US to stay on in Syria to save them from their arched enemy . Israel is relishing this situation of having a buffer non-Arab state between its ever expanding borders and those of Arab countries . <p> Even Erdogan who unleashed his US backed Jihadis ( HTS ) on Syria did not imagine the instant crumbling of the Assad regime . However , for a critic Assad 's capability of keeping a highly sanctioned , economically unviable country besieged by the imperialist forces , intact for nearly 12 years , was a miracle . One can blame Assad of ruling with dictatorial powers , of corruption -- as if the entire west especially the US president is elected without the money laundered by the AIPAC , a symbol of corruption . <p> Miriam Adelson alone provided a hefty sum of 100 million to Trump 's campaign to annex West Bank -- of not improving the economy , providing a lowly pay of $40 per month to its generals and $7 to his soldiers , and so on but he was half as corrupt as MbS of Saudia . And one should not forget how valiantly Assad withstood and fought against the onslaught of the US , the biggest imperial power , for more than a decade . <p> To be honest Syria had long been turned into a ragtag state . Damascus was regularly bombed by the Israeli aggressors . <p> A large swathe of its Northern part was controlled by the Turkish army since 2016 . In the Eastern Syria US troops occupied the area in al-Haskakah and Deirez-Zorgovernate on the pretext of securing oil and gas from the Jihadis whom they are overtly supporting now . <p> The illegal control of Syrians ' oil was not the only tragedy that marred the people of Syria but the US also controlled the area producing grain for its starving population.To add injury to the insult the US-occupied territory was teaming with the Jihadis of Al-Qaida origin , recently rebranded as HTS which have been given the reins of Damascus as the puppet masters of three imperial states . <p> The oil sold to the Jihadis affiliated with Al-Qaida/Al Nusra by the US was smuggled and resold to Turkey and the Erdogan family was one of the beneficiaries of this smuggling . The same oil was carried to the refineries in Malta and once refined it reached to its final destination , Israel . <p> To sustain Syria as a semi-viable state , Iran sent thousands of barrels of oil daily to Syria , while Russia not only maintained its military squad and bomber but also supplied Syria with thousands of tons of grain . Not to mention the soldiers of Hezbollah guarding Syrian borders and fighting to maintain the Assad government for the last decade . <p> Once Syria fell all the mana stopped falling and many cities in Syria are in literal darkness without the provisions of light and food . <p> Since Israel has annexed almost all of Gollan heights Syria will be deprived of its water resources as well . " When " imperialism comes , it comes not in single spies but in battalions , Shakespeare was succinct since imperialism and sorrows are synonymous . The plights of the wretched Syrians seem unending . <p> Now the onus to keep Syria afloat is on Turkey , Israel and their godfather the US . Will the US give up or at least release the stolen Syrian oil and grain to be used by the Gollani and co to improve the dire situation in Syria ? Will Turkey send some financial aid to the starving Syrian children or does any country of the west has spine to send medial aid to the dying people ? No , these are pipedreams . <p> It was necessary to weaken the axis of resistance and forcing Syrians to kneel before the hegemonic forces ' knees instrumental for this purpose . More importantly , it served as a distraction for the entire world from the continued , unending genocide of Palestinians by the Zionists . <p> What Gollani is running is a combination of diverse groups ; the only thing common in them is savagery . With Salafi background it is hard to think that a plural Syrian society comprising Shiites , Druze , mystic Sunnis and Nestorian Christians will be able to avoid the Salafi wrath for long especially when history narrates a different story about them . <p> The gory stories of decapitation , torture and rape of all those refusing to obey the Salafi version of Jihadis , are still reverberating in people 's minds . Recently , the occupied Syrian citizens protested against the Jihdis , and strangely contrary to the new ruler the Israeli forces opened live fire on them . Enough to know who rules the roost . <p> Hulegu Khan was unnecessarily blamed for destroying the Levant . Albeit the US-Israel nexus have taken a leaf from his book but they have surpassed him long ago by inflicting all kinds of previously uninvented atrocities on the people of the Middle East , including the imposition of tin pot dictators upon them . <p> Gramsci has helped us categorise the difference between the US Empire and its coattail entity Israel . " For it is very clear , " he says , " that all victors desire to destroy the vanquished . But men being very hypocritical and false do not say outright " I wish to conquer to destroy ' " but say instead : " I wish to conquer to civilize " . This is the mantra of the Americans when they invade any country in the name of enforcing democracy and liberalization-based freedom . <p> While for Israeli fascists even this jargon is not necessary . They are far worse than Romans , the latter Gramsci says , " Were content with binding their vanquished opponents to their triumphal chariots -- then they made the defeated lands their provinces . <p> But now the victors would like all inhabitants of the colonies to vanish , to make room for the new ones " , especially for the Jews whose entire population is not more than 10 million in the entire globe . <p> Coming back to a tremendous setback the resistance will have to face in the shape of downfall of Assad 's government , but certainly it is not the end of the world for the freedom fighters . That is the only victory Israel can show to its hegemonic allies and that too was n't possible without the help of the US and its proto-fascist ally , Erdogan . <p> Who can save Syria from the destiny of turning into another Libya ? Libya did not share borders with Israel , but Syria does . The anarchy in Syria will soon start hurting the US-Turkey-Israel nexus . If devastated Iraq can become a constant headache for the American why not a Syria divided in three parts for its respective conquerors ? <p> Slaughtering the innocent masses and turning the countries into rubble with American war planes and 2000k borrowed bombs , more than what Hiroshima and Nagasaki combined suffered , is no victory . Despite all the hell broken out on Gaza and Beirut both Hamas and Hezbollah are intact and resisting the might of entire global north . That is why the battle is not between Palestine and a settler colonial entity but between global south -- largely sleeping -- and global north . They say that every commodity in the market wears a tag of being made in China but courage alone wears the tag of Palestine for it is n't a commodity and a coward Israeli army can not purchase or borrow it because Americans have none either . <p> For those who think that Israel has won the war do not know what Gramsci has stated " revolutionaries who see history as the product of their own actions made up of uninterrupted series of wenches ( tugs ) executed upon the active and passive forces in society and prepare for the final wrench ( revolution ) " invariably win the last battle . This is what Palestinians , and the axis of resistance , are fighting and preparing for , making history by their actions . <p> The writer is an Australian-based academic and has authored books on socialism and history . His Latest Work : " God 's Republic Making &amp; Unmaking of Israel &amp; Pakistan " is available in Pakistan &amp; on Amazon.com . He can be reached at email protected 
@@119337962 <h> WHO chief says he was at Yemen airport when it was hit by Israeli airstrikes <p> The World Health Organization ( WHO ) chief on Thursday said he was at Yemen 's Sanaa airport when it was hit by Israeli air strikes . <p> " As we were about to board our flight from Sana'a , about two hours ago , the airport came under aerial bombardment . One of our plane 's crew members was injured , " Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said on X. " At least two people were reported killed at the airport . " <p> " The air traffic control tower , the departure lounge -- just a few meters from where we were -- and the runway were damaged , " he said , adding that the mission needs to wait for the damage to the airport to be repaired before they can leave . <p> Tedros said he and his colleagues are safe and sent " heartfelt condolences " to the relatives of those who lost their lives in the attack . <p> The WHO chief and his colleagues were in Yemen to negotiate the release of UN staff detainees and assess the country 's health and humanitarian situation , which concluded Thursday . <p> Israeli warplanes launched a new wave of airstrikes in Yemen on Thursday evening amid rising regional tensions over Israel 's genocidal war on Gaza , Israeli media said . <p> The strikes targeted several strategic sites in Yemen , including Sanaa airport and the port of Al-Hudaydah in western Yemen . <p> The Houthis have targeted Israeli cargo ships or those associated with Tel Aviv in the Red Sea with missiles and drones in a show of support with the Gaza Strip , where more than 45,000 people have been killed in Israel 's war since Oct. 7 , 2023. 
@@119337963 <p> Nearly 50 Palestinians were killed Thursday in an Israeli airstrike on a building opposite the headquarters of Kamal Adwan Hospital in the northern Gaza Strip , including three medical staff and workers . <p> " There are nearly 50 martyrs , including three of our medical staff , under the rubble of a building opposite Kamal Adwan Hospital in the Beit Lahia Project area after it was bombed by Israeli warplanes , " Hussam Abu Safia , the hospital 's director , said in a statement . <p> Abu Safia said the medical staff and workers were present in the targeted building because they were staying there with their families . <p> He identified the slain staffers as Ahmed Samour , a pediatrician , Israa , a laboratory technician , and Fares , a maintenance technician at the hospital . <p> Israel launched a large-scale ground offensive in northern Gaza on Oct. 5 to allegedly prevent the Palestinian group Hamas from regrouping . Palestinians , however , accuse Israel of seeking to occupy the area and forcibly displace its residents . <p> Since then , no sufficient humanitarian aid including food , medicine and fuel has been allowed into the area , leaving the remaining population on the verge of imminent famine . <p> Israel has killed more than 45,000 people in Gaza since an Oct. 7 , 2023 cross-border attack by Hamas , reducing the enclave to rubble . <p> Last month , the International Criminal Court issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant for war crimes and crimes against humanity in Gaza . <p> Israel also faces a genocide case at the International Court of Justice for its war on the enclave . 
@@119337976 <h> The US and the Western countries instead of coercing Pakistan to abandon its nuclear and missile programme must make efforts for the resolution of the Kashmir dispute . <p> Last Wednesday the state department of the USA in a statement announced the imposition of sanctions against the National Development Complex and three commercial entities that according to it are engaged in the development of the missile programme of Pakistan . Then on Thursday Deputy National Security Advisor Jon Finer went a step further and made a shocking statement at a think-tank the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace that nuclear-armed Pakistan was developing long-range ballistic missile capabilities that eventually could allow it to strike targets well beyond South Asia including United States , making it an emerging threat to the United States . <p> Pakistan while strongly rejecting the new sanctions and the statement of the Deputy Security Advisor has rightly called the move ' unfortunate and biased ' warning that such policies have dangerous implications for the strategic stability of the South Asian region and beyond . It has further maintained that the latest installment of sanctions defies the objective of peace and security by aiming to accentuate military asymmetries . Pointing out the double standards by the US in this regard it has been pointed out that while claiming strict adherence to non-proliferation norms , licensing requirements for advanced military technology to other countries have been waived off in the past . Such double standards and discriminatory practices not only undermine the credibility of non-proliferation regimes but also endanger regional and international peace and security . <p> Responding to the apprehensions expressed by the Deputy Security Advisor the foreign office said " We wish to reiterate that Pakistan 's strategic capabilities are meant to defend its sovereignty . The alleged threat perception from Pakistan 's missile capabilities and delivery means , raised by the US official , are unfortunate . These allegations are unfounded , devoid of rationality and sense of history . Pakistan 's strategic program and allied capabilities are solely meant to deter and thwart a clear and visible existential threat from its neighbour and should not be perceived as a threat to any other country . Such irrational assumption of hostile intent from Pakistan by any other country , including the US , is perplexing as well as illogical " <p> The foregoing discourse represents a befitting stance by Pakistan in regard to the rationale and context of its nuclear and missile programme as well as a strong repudiation of the double standards by the US in this regard and the assumed threat perception to US targets . <p> The reality is that the US knows all these things but looks at it from the perspective of her own strategic interests . Its strategic interests in the region are aligned with Indian strategic objectives necessitating a discriminatory approach . <p> While expecting other nations to strictly abide by the non-proliferation Treaty and crying hoarse from every convenient roof-top to announce her credentials in this regard the US is guilty of applying the NPT provisions selectively keeping in view its commercial and strategic global interests . Its allies like UK and France also adhere to similar policies . <p> The US-India Civil Nuclear Agreement is a classic example of a violation of NPT by the US . It is aimed at promoting its strategic interests in this region and propping up India as a regional super power to act as a counter-weight to the burgeoning Chinese influence in the region and beyond . To have this agreement become operational , the US made amendments in its Atomic Energy Act of 1954 , and facilitated IAEA agreement with India in which the later agreed to separate its civil and military nuclear facilities and to place all its nuclear facilities under IAEA safeguards and also manoeuvered grant of an exemption from the Nuclear Suppliers Group ( NSG ) for India . This deal introduced a new aspect to the international non-proliferation efforts . The grant and implementation of the waiver from NSG to India which allowed her access to civilian nuclear technology and fuel from other countries made India the only country outside the umbrella of NPT to carry out nuclear commerce with the rest of the world . <p> As against it US is not prepared to extend the same treatment to Pakistan and instead has been putting pressure on it to curtail and even cap its nuclear and missile program which it perforce had to initiate in response to the nuclear threat from India . The US particularly has been pressurizing Pakistan to sign NPT and withdraw its opposition to FMCT without addressing its legitimate security concerns . The refusal by Pakistan to succumb to these unreasonable demands by the US and its allies in the face of their discriminatory approach to the nuclear issue and disregard for its security concerns is absolutely right and justified . Pakistan believes in the non-proliferation of the nuclear arsenal and has been supporting the objectives of the NPT even though it has not signed the Treaty for justifiable reasons . <p> India has been feverishly engaged in boosting its nuclear capability as well as building up conventional weapons with the support and encouragement of US and its allies , posing an ever-increasing threat to the security of Pakistan The belligerent posture adopted by the Modi regime and the Indian paradigm of ' cold start ' deserve a matching response by Pakistan . <p> No country can compromise its security . The missile programme of Pakistan designed to produce short-range missiles capable of carrying small nuclear warheads is part of a defensive mechanism designed to discourage India from committing any indiscretion . It is yet another deterrent to forestall the possibility of even a limited war between the two countries . <p> The US and the Western countries instead of coercing Pakistan to abandon its nuclear and missile programme must make efforts for the resolution of the Kashmir dispute between India and Pakistan in conformity with the spirit of the UN resolutions . Once the Kashmir issue is resolved relations with India are normalized and India signs the NPT , Pakistan surely would have no hesitation in signing the NPT and removing its objections to initiation of dialogue on FMCT . One-sided pressure tactics and arm-twisting are not going to produce desired results . Pakistan is a sovereign and self-respecting country and would never ever take dictation from anyone in regards to its security which remains its top priority and concern in the wake of the prevailing security threats . <p> The dilemma is that US is an evil superpower bereft of humanitarian considerations , principles enshrined in the UN Charter or any International Covenant and treaty when it comes to its strategic global interests . It is the biggest enemy of peace as it is in one way or the other connected to almost all conflicts around the world . It along with its European allies wants to fashion the world according to their own perceptions to serve their strategic interests . The support that USA and its allies have extended to Israel in carrying out genocide in Gaza is a ranting testimony of their callous and inhumane credentials . <p> Malik Muhammad AshrafThe writer is a freelance columnist . He can be reached at ashpak10@gmail.com. 
@@119353817 <h> Israel killed many more civilians in Gaza after relaxing its regulations to target Hamas fighters : report <h> According to a New York Times report cited by Reuters , the Israeli military relaxed its rules of engagement at the beginning of the Gaza offensive to allow commanders to approve attacks on targets despite a higher chance of civilian casualties . <p> According to the journal , the military gave mid-ranking officers the power to assault a variety of military objectives where up to 20 civilians could be killed right after groups of Hamas-led gunmen attacked Israel on October 7 , 2023 . <p> According to the NYT , the military eliminated a cap on the total number of people its strikes may endanger each day , in addition to increasing the amount of civilian casualties that could be risked in a single operation . <p> According to the publication , the military high command occasionally authorized strikes that they knew would endanger up to 100 civilian lives . <p> According to the newspaper , the directive allowed the military to target rank-and-file terrorists when they were at home with family and neighbors rather than just when they were by themselves . <p> While acknowledging that the rules of engagement had altered after October 7 , the military claimed that its soldiers had " continually been employing means and methods that adhere to the rules of law , " according to the NYT . A request for comment from Reuters was not immediately answered by the Israeli military . <h> PKKH ( Pakistan Ka Khuda Hafiz ) is a respected Pakistani news website offering accurate and comprehensive coverage of politics , culture , and global affairs . With a commitment to objective reporting and insightful analysis , PKKH provides readers with a well-rounded perspective on current events . The platform encourages community engagement and leverages digital technology to reach a wide audience , contributing to informed discussions and awareness . 
@@119353855 <p> In a tweet on Thursday , Khawaja Asif stated that whether it is Grenell or anyone else , Pakistan will not be intimidated . " Pakistan was created in the name of Allah , and if anyone dares to lay a hand on its sovereignty , they will be given an appropriate response , " he added . Meanwhile , the federal Minister also launched a scathing critique of the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf founder , Imran Khan , calling him " Israel 's asset " . Khawaja Asif said that he had never heard of Richard Grenell before his appointment , questioning his influence on US politics and whether he had any notable clout within the Trump administration . <p> The defense minister underscored that the Pakistani government has always resiliently handled foreign pressure , referencing past instances where the country successfully stood up against foreign interference and sanctions . " This time will be no different , " he asserted . <p> Regarding US-Pakistan relations , the Defense Minister confirmed that the relationship with the United States is on good terms , dismissing any concerns over Pakistan 's interests being jeopardized under the current US administration . <p> He also downplayed the significance of individual statements , particularly from those who are not part of the official US cabinet , and emphasized that such remarks would not affect Pakistan 's legal proceedings . Khawaja Asif further criticized the hypocrisy of countries , especially European nations , that remained silent on the ongoing crisis in Gaza , where over 45,000 lives have been lost . " While the conscience of European nations remains dormant regarding Gaza , it awakens over the imprisonment of one individual in Pakistan , " he remarked . Asif also accused the PTI founder of being an asset of Israeli interests and suggested that the Israeli lobby in the US holds significant sway over political narratives. 
@@119371904 <p> As 2024 draws to a close , we 've been reflecting on what made this year for us at Images -- the songs , the films , the TV shows , the food , the fashion and the trends that defined 2024 for us . <p> Team Images has compiled its favourites of the year , from food to music . <h> Music <h> A song that brought us together <p> Asfa : I 'd say Coke Studio 15 's ' Blockbuster ' . The song 's pairing of Faris Shafi and Umair Butt ( of Butt Brothers ) , alongside the Gharwi Group , an all-women folk ensemble , became all the rage in both Pakistan and India . While its treatment and stylistic choices made it a miss for me , the track , with its catchy beat , appealed to listeners across diverse musical tastes . Its interplay of modern beats and traditional vocals -- the Gharwi Group 's pre-chorus adding a rich cultural layer to the song -- clearly made it impossible for South Asian audiences to not vibe to it . <p> Mashael : ' Blockbuster ' by Faris Shafi , Umair Butt , Gharwi Group . Few things bridge the divide between Indians and Pakistanis with such joy , and ' Blockbuster ' was top of the list for 2024 . From mehndi dances to Instagram reels , this song was everywhere . The song transcended borders and was a shared anthem of celebration . Chachis , dadis , mammos , and everyone in between was grooving to ' Blockbuster ' , and you simply ca n't help it . With its infectious beats and the Gharwi Group 's iconic verse , this was the song ( in my opinion ) that brought us all together . <p> Siham : ' Hind 's Hall ' by Macklemore started a cultural revolution and brought the whole world together for Palestine . That it was a fund raiser for Palestine was the cherry on top . The song became an anthem for the movement and uniting force for so , so many people . <h> A song that felt like a hug <p> A : ' O Yaara ' from Coke Studio 15 was definitely a warm , nostalgic hug . With its delicate blend of indie and ghazal influences , the song wraps around you . The tender interplay between Abdul Hannan and Jaffer Zaidi 's vocals feels deeply personal . Its soothing melody and heartfelt lyrics invite you to pause , breathe , and let its gentle embrace wash over you . <p> M : ' Birds of a Feather ' by Billie Eilish . The soft , intimate soundscape coupled with beautifully personal lyrics , invokes a sense of warmth in the listener . The minimalistic production and Eilish 's delicate , almost whispered vocals create an atmosphere of vulnerability and comfort , and made me feel like I was wrapped in a warm blanket . The lyrics and her impeccable vocal delivery remind me of my loved ones . <p> S : ' Too Sweet ' by Hozier . I would n't consider this a traditional song to include in this section , but it 's a hug nonetheless . <h> A song that told them who 's boss <p> A : Globally , it has to be ' Not Like Us ' by Kendrick Lamar . The Drake diss , complete with allegations that could destroy his career , went viral this year for all the right reasons . With its scathing song-writing , contagious production , and power-pact delivery , ' Not Like Us ' became Lamar 's mic-drop moment of 2024 , eviscerating Drake and solidifying his place as the ultimate boss in the rap game . <p> Locally , I 'd say ' Kaun Talha ' by Talha Anjum . The track is an unapologetic , razor-sharp response to Indian rapper Naezy . Packed with clever wordplay , unapologetic expletives , and a beat that transitions from playful to menacing , the song is a proclamation of supremacy , cementing Anjum as the ' King of Urdu Rap ' . <p> M : ' Defying Gravity ' by Cynthia Ervio and Ariana Grande , from Wicked . ' Defying Gravity ' is the ultimate " tell them who 's boss " anthem because it 's a declaration of self-empowerment and breaking free from expectations . I know this song is n't new , but this iteration is simply stunning , from Ervio 's powerful vocals to Grande 's perfect harmonisation . The lyrics are bold and defiant , and Ervio 's delivery adds new vigour to them , particularly when she scream-sings the iconic war cry -- I will never not get goosebumps . The music itself starts quietly but rises into a triumphant crescendo with soaring notes that mirror her emotional liberation and literal physical ascent on her broom . It 's a musical mic drop made all the better with Ervio singing live as she 's acting . Stunning . <p> S : I have two songs for this category -- Kendrick Lamar 's ' Not Like Us ' and Hanumankind 's ' Big Dawgs ' . Kendrick 's on this list for obvious reasons -- he really showed Drake who 's the boss . You just have to listen to ' Big Dawgs ' to know why it 's on this list -- it 's a boss song . <h> A song that became a cultural phenomenon <p> A : Charli xcx 's ' Apple ' and ' 365 ' from her album brat have to be this year 's cultural phenomenons . In fact , the whole album , with its glitchy beats , blending hyperpop and experimental sounds became a sensation . Not only did it inspire several TikTok trends but its bold aesthetic also channelled a wave of " brat fashion " , with fans donning cyberpunk looks to playfully recreate its edgy spirit . <p> M : ' Girl so confusing ' by Charli xcx featuring Lorde . Everything Lorde touches turns to gold , and a song featuring her and Charli xcx -- the undeniable queen of music this year -- was the pinnacle of female friendships in pop music for 2024 . What started off as the two pop icons being mistaken for each other early in their careers , blossomed into a song where both give their sides of the story , talk about the pressures of being a woman and finally understanding each other . " Forgot that inside the icon , there 's still a young girl from Essex " . The video of the two dancing to the song at Charli 's birthday made it even more of a cultural phenomenon . <p> S : ' Espresso ' by Sabrina Carpenter . This song was EVERYWHERE and ended up becoming a cultural phenomenon not because it was so good , but because of the energy behind the song -- hyper femininity , self love , and TikTok trends aplenty . <h> A song that gave us the main character energy <p> M : ' Espresso ' by Sabrina Carpenter . That 's that ME espresso . Sabrina Carpenter 's summer bop screams main character energy , she knew her worth and she was letting us know too . <p> A : Before ' Espresso ' became all the rage , Ariana Grande 's ' Yes , and ? ' channelled the kind of main character energy I was looking for this year . The track , a bold fusion of pop and R&amp;B , is a celebration of owning one 's supposed ' flaws ' and turning them into strengths . Grande 's vocal delivery is as powerful as ever , transitioning effortlessly between velvety verses and a soaring , unapologetic chorus . The phrase " yes , and ? " is an act of defiance in itself . The song 's dynamic beat , lush harmonies , and a sense of theatricality that mirrors the drama of a protagonist 's defining moment are both empowering and infectious . <p> S : ' Rockstar ' by LISA . I 'm not a huge Blackpink fan but this song makes you feel like the main character . <h> TV <h> A TV show that redefined love stories <p> M : Netflix 's Nobody Wants This . The show defied the usual tropes of romantic comedies and refused to be utopic or dramatic , choosing instead to show a very real portrayal of love . The main characters , Joanne ( Kristen Bell ) and Noah Roklov ( Adam Brody ) , go through realistic issues and resolve their problems through communication and confrontation , which is what mature , real love should look like . Both characters were independent and unlike stereotypical rom-coms ( and real life in Pakistan ) did not bind themselves to the traditional timeline of love , which made their relationship more natural . Joanne and Noah were unabashedly and unapologetically themselves , a refreshing departure from being told that love needs one to change themselves . <p> A : I 'd say Bridgerton Season 3 . This season shed its fairytale veneer to introduce the friends-to-lovers trope . Unlike its predecessors , rich in bookish exoticism , it cut down on the romance to build tension and shed light on the courage it takes to be honest . It explored themes of accountability , and personal growth , carving a story that presents love , not as an escape , but as a transformative force . <p> **S : **Queen of Tears . I 'll be the first to admit that many K-dramas are dripping with tropes and often very repetitive , but there was something about this drama that really tugged at the heartstrings . The couple started off seemingly hating each other but by the end , we were all in tears watching how they resolved their issues and reunited . <h> A TV show that made us cry <p> A:Baby Reindeer was without a doubt one of the most powerful shows I watched this year . It left me in tears with its harrowing exploration of trauma and abuse . Episode 4 , in particular , was so dark and disturbingly honest in its depiction of sexual assault that it reopened old wounds for me . What made it even more unsettling was knowing that Richard Gadd , the actor and creator , was reliving his own experiences on screen . <p> S : No TV shows released this year made me cry -- but is that a reflection on my emotional state or the content I watch ? <h> A TV show that started a conversation <p> M:Jafaa . For its representation of domestic violence and highlighting how difficult it is for women to leave abusive partners , even with financial stability . <p> A:The Menendez Brothers . Based on the infamous case of Lyle and Erik Menendez , this show depicted the various alleged instances that led up to the night they murdered their parents . It also highlighted the sensationalism surrounding their trials in 1993 and 1995 , allowing viewers to rethink what they 've come to believe about them . The series became a source of polarising views online , with many justifying what the brothers did because of the abuse they allegedly went through . Kim Kardashian went as far as demanding their freedom . <p> S:Barzakh . The star-studded show definitely started a conversation -- whether that was conversation was good or not is debatable . The show was n't a romance -- which is strange enough for Pakistani television -- and explored the genre of fantasy , something that also is n't seen on Pakistani TV . The show featured themes considered ' provocative ' by some viewers and started a conversation on what kind of content Pakistanis want and need to see . <h> Food <h> The best coffee in Karachi <p> M : Black Honey . <p> A : I do n't do coffee . <p> S : Black Honey , hands down . <h> Food trend that needs to die down <p> M : Coffee shops in Karachi . Listen , I love coffee as much as the next gal but there is now a coffee shop on every corner you turn . Yet , people still flock to their usual spots -- places that actually sell good coffee . We need fewer cafes with mediocre milky coffee and day-old stale croissants . Enough . <p> A : Pistashio in literally EVERYTHING . From pistachio lattes and ice creams to pistachio-flavoured croissants and even cocktails , this trend has reached a saturation point . It 's an overkill . <p> Siham : Every other restaurant in Karachi trying to make their own version of Test Kitchen 's lime chicken sandwich or Xander 's Babar 's Pasta . Please innovate and come up new things . As much as I love these dishes , I do n't want to see versions of them everywhere I go . <h> People <h> A celebrity who won hearts <p> M : Nicola Coughlan . Leave it to the Irish to win everyone 's hearts . The Bridgerton star was consistently vocal about Israel 's atrocities on the Gaza Strip , and was one of the only mainstream celebrities calling for a ceasefire . Coughlan wore the Artists4Ceasfire pin for almost all public outings , from Bridgerton press tours to award shows and most importantly , she raised $2 million for the Palestine Children 's Relief Fund through her social media efforts . <p> Moreover , her performance in Bridgerton season three carried the show as her character transformed from a bumbling shy girl to a confident , empowered woman . Coughlan is also a beacon for body positivity without shoving the narrative down audiences ' throats . She slayed every outfit she wore and was a testament to the fact that skinny is n't the only form of beauty . <p> A : Macklemore . He was the only US artist who put out TWO songs for Palestine this year , speaking truth to power and calling out fellow artists " complicit in their platforms of silence . " The rapper did n't hold back from criticising Meta or politicians like Biden . He also pledged to donate all proceeds from his songs to Palestinian refugees through the UNRWA . <p> S : Nicola Coughlan was a star this year . She starred in a huge Netflix production but did n't let any opportunity go by to talk about Palestine . She wore the Artists4Ceasefire pin everywhere , no matter where she was going and she raised $2 million dollars for Palestine . In a world of celebrities who engage in performative activism , Coughlan put her money where her mouth was and I love her for it . <h> Someone who started important conversations <p> M : Bisan Owda . She won an Emmy , she won a Peabody , and she continues to live through an ongoing genocide . Throughout it , the Palestinian journalist Owda continues to cover what , by all rights , seems like an extermination campaign ceaselessly , posting video updates every few days and shedding light on stories that would have otherwise gone untold without her voice . <p> A : This has to be Bisan Owda . The Palestinian journalist has been at the forefront of reporting from Gaza since Israel launched its assault on the territory last October . She 's been busy bringing stories of Palestinians to the global audience through AJ+ and her 4.8 million Instagram followers . This year , she also won an Emmy Award in the Outstanding Hard News Feature Story and a Peabody Award . <p> S : Motaz Azaiza . The Palestinian photojournalist has used every opportunity and venue available to him to talk about Palestine , the impact of Israel 's assault on his people and their living conditions . <h> A friendship that was everywhere <p> A : Talha Anjum and Umair . These two really popped off this year with numerous collaborations , churning out albums and EPs and emerged as the most streamed artists on Spotify . I guess you could say that theirs was the most productive friendship of the year . <p> M : Badshah and Hania Aamir . The duo made headlines multiple times this year , with rumours swirling that they were dating , however , both maintained that they 're good friends . Badshah and Aamir spoke about each other in multiple interviews , and the actor answered rapid-fire questions about the rapper to near perfection on BBC Asian Network . Soon after , Badshah also appeared on the same show and answered all questions about Aamir correctly . I ca n't help but stan this cross-border friendship ! <p> S : Ariana Grande and Cynthia Erivo holding fingers during the Wicked press tour and the rest of their insane interactions . I do n't even know if they 're actually friends but their interactions have been hilarious . <h> Most over-the-top moment <p> M : Anand Ambani and Radhika Merchant 's wedding . The entire affair was the epitome of extravagance , from performances by Rihanna and Justin Bieber to Mark Zuckerberg , Bill Gates and the entirety of Bollywood attendance . The multi-event spectacle sprawled over months , continents and easily cost billions ( not that Mukesh Ambani has any problems with that ) . The unparalleled opulence makes it one of the most expensive weddings in history , with many criticising the lavish spending as obscene . <p> A : For me , the most over-the-top moment would be Kashif Rana , known by his stage name Chahat Fateh Ali Khan , coming out with his audacious " rendition " of Noor Jehan 's classic , ' Akh Lari Bado Badi ' . It was so funny it made him an overnight sensation , not just in Pakistan , but in India as well . The cover inspired a slew of reels and memes , making Rana unstoppable . <p> S : The most over the top moment of the year for me was Khalil ur Rehman 's over the top explanation for why he went to a woman 's house at 4am after he reported that he had been kidnapped . The writer 's explanation was the strangest thing I 've heard all year . <p> " I am sick and my doctor has strictly told me to not go out in the daytime for five years . Even if he had n't said that , we meet people at night and you do n't differentiate between men and women . When there 's no objection to me meeting men at night , then why should there be an objection to me agreeing to see this woman at the break of dawn ? Because this happened at 4:40am , I had not agreed to go at night when I got the call . For the past 15 days , she was pestering me to see her . " <h> Trends <h> A phrase stuck in our heads <p> A : " Only reason I do n't hold grudges against people is because it affects my skin , " by Shalini Passi -- Iconic . Also , " Wow , what a self-respect ! " <p> M : " Very demure , very mindful " . No explanation needed . <p> S : They 're eating the cats , they 're eating the dogs . <h> Overused meme <p> M : The Hawk Tuah girl . As one X ( formerly Twitter ) user said , " it 's increasingly clear that Ellen DeGeneres was an environmentally significant apex predator in the media ecosystem ; she 'd have extracted all entertainment value from the Hawk Tuah girl in a three-minute segment and banished her back to anonymity . " <p> This is exactly what needs to happen with the meme , it needs to be banished into anonymity , and removed from the minds of the American right-wing , who have ( for some reason ) claimed the girl . Also , it 's just gross . <p> A : The " Good morning pineapple " memes and " I 'm looking for a man in finance . " <p> S : Very demure , very mindful , very overused . Just stop ! <h> Most creative meme <p> M : The cringey motivational reels with iconic dialogues splashed over picturesque scenery and Dramamine by Flawed Mangoes playing in the background . Art . <h> An image that struck our hearts <p> M : Palestinians , young and old , gather to receive food cooked by a charity kitchen , amid the intense Israeli assault , in the northern Gaza Strip , September 11 , 2024 . Photo by Mahmoud Issa for Reuters . <p> The sheer desperation on every person 's face is bone-chilling . Food supplies to Gaza have fallen sharply because Israeli authorities have introduced a new customs rule on some humanitarian aid and are separately scaling down deliveries organized by businesses , Reuters reported . According to the Integrated Food Security Phase Classification ( IPC ) , over the coming months 1.95 million people in Gaza ( 91 per cent of the population ) will face acute food insecurity . <p> A : This photo by Abdel Kareem Hana for AP sees relatives and friends gathered around the bodies of five Palestinian journalists who were killed by an Israeli airstrike in Gaza City at the Al-Aqsa Hospital in Deir al-Balah on December 26 . The journalists have been identified as Fadi Hassouna , Ibrahim al-Sheikh Ali , Mohammed al-Ladah , Faisal Abu al-Qumsan and Ayman al-Jadi . <p> Fifty-four journalists were killed worldwide while carrying out their work or because of their profession in 2024 , a third of them by the Israeli army , according to an annual report by Reporters Without Borders ( RSF ) published on Thursday . <p> S : The image that stayed with me is one that is too graphic to include in this list . Instead , I 've included a drawing of it by an artist named Yassin . The image was of a father holding up the body of his beheaded child and was one of the most gruesome and heart-wrenching images I have seen come out of Gaza . <p> Even in drawing form , it makes me uneasy , thinking of the sheer destruction inflicted upon the people of Gaza and the callous dismissal of their pain . <h> Fashion <h> Most unique moment <p> M : Pat McGrath 's porcelain doll-esque beauty look for John Galliano 's Margiela Artisanal show in Paris at the beginning of the year . This pale , overly glossy look was , in the words of Vogue , " a truly immersive , theatrical mise en sc ? ne , it was a snapshot into the artistry and gritty glamour of life in 1930s Paris . " <p> A : Zendaya in archival Mugler for the ' Dune : Part Two ' premiere in London . The actor 's futuristic look included an armour-clad metal bodysuit with sheer panelling , matching metallic heels , with a blue diamond Bulgari necklace -- straight out of 2057 . <p> S : Jahnvi Kapoor in Falguni Shane Peacock at the Ambani wedding . It 's not a high fashion moment , but somehow , it 's better . She was the moment . <h> Bizarre trends <p> A : Exaggerated platform boots . Can we stop with that ? <p> M : Alaia 's ballet flats in fishnet , priced at a staggering $890 . The recent mesh flat shoe trend is not the vibe , I do not need to see your entire foot through a thing net veil ! Shoe choices aside -- I 'm pro-choice ! -- why on earth would anyone pay so much for some fishnet and a sole ? ! <p> S : Blush that makes you look like you have a second degree burn on your face . Blush blindness is real ! <h> A fashion trend that needs to be left in 2024 <p> M : Crocs , especially with fancy outfits or when people dress up their crocs . I never understood the trend -- there are comfy shoes out there that also look good . And now , people like India 's biggest influence Orry are promoting the brand . Let it go , just leave them , there is no way to make Crocs better . <p> S : Apple watches with weddingwear . Please , your Apple watch does n't need to be paired with a sari at a wedding ! <h> Film <h> Best " so bad it 's incredible " movie <p> M:Challengers . What was this movie about ? Tennis ? The unwavering love for tennis ? Love triangles ? Friendship ? All of the above ? Regardless , the movie was pure entertainment and had some excellent cinematography . The plot , however ? Mid . The film takes itself so seriously that it unintentionally feels like a comedy . Worth the watch , but I do n't understand the hype . <p> A : Ranbir Kapoor 's Animal hands down . If I had to rate this movie on its entertainment value I 'd give it a nine . It was just so over-the-top , in a bad way , that it was hilarious . I feel like this film did n't even deserve to be review-bombed because how could anyone take it seriously ? <p> S : Gladiator II . I did n't watch a lot of movies this year , but I have to ask , what was the point of this one ? The story was all over the place , the pacing was weird and the conflicts resolved in such funny ways that I was convinced I fell asleep watching it and missed some of the movie . The part that made it incredible was the inclusion of Paul Mescal and Pedro Pascal . And the sharks in the Colosseum . <h> A movie that made us proud <p> M:The Glassworker . A decade-long labour of love , The Glassworker is arguably the most incredible animation to emerge from Pakistan . Director Usman Riaz 's efforts and hard work were evident in each spectacularly picturesque scene , accompanied by a beautiful score that he helped compose . The film was also selected as Pakistan 's official submission for the 2025 Academy Awards and was longlisted . Despite the movie failing to be shortlisted , it will remain one of the greatest films to come out of Pakistan . <p> A:The Glassworker . Not many Pakistani films have been released this year but this one put Pakistani animation on the world map . As a Studio Ghibli fan , this film had the themes , stylistic choices , and nuances that make an animated feature truly stand out for me. 
@@119371954 <h> The Economic Tides of 2024 <p> 2024 unfolded as a remarkable period of upheaval , innovation , and adaptation . The global economy witnessed many challenges and opportunities that tested resilience , forced governments and industries to innovate , and created ripples that will undoubtedly shape the future . As the world prepares to navigate the complexities of 2025 , the lessons of 2024 stand as both a cautionary tale and a source of optimism . This year was marked by seismic geopolitical shifts , the rapid evolution of technology , economic turbulence , and the relentless march of climate change , all contributing to a dramatically altered global landscape . <p> The ongoing conflict in Ukraine remained a defining issue throughout 2024 . It continued to drive geopolitical realignments and disruptions across energy markets and trade networks . Western nations intensified their sanctions on Russia , further isolating its economy and compelling it to deepen its reliance on alliances with China and Iran . <p> This pivot signalled the emergence of a multipolar world order , where power dynamics shifted away from Western dominance to more decentralized spheres of influence . Energy markets were profoundly affected , with oil prices initially soaring to $105 per barrel due to constrained supplies . However , by December , these prices stabilized at $70 as non-OPEC nations , particularly the United States and Brazil , ramped up production . Simultaneously , renewable energy adoption accelerated , with Europe leading the charge as countries like Germany expanded their offshore wind and solar capacities to reduce dependency on Russian gas . Despite these advances , Europe 's industrial output lagged , revealing the inherent challenges of rapid energy transitions during periods of geopolitical strain . <p> In the Middle East , the political landscape was dramatically reshaped by the collapse of Bashar al-Assad 's regime in Syria . His unexpected ousting in December created a power vacuum that plunged the nation into chaos , with rival factions vying for control . The repercussions were felt across neighbouring Lebanon and Jordan , where the influx of over 1.5 million refugees exacerbated already fragile economies . Compounding this instability , the Gaza conflict between Israel and Hamas disrupted global trade through the Suez Canal , temporarily halting shipments and driving up global shipping costs by twenty per cent . These events underscored the fragility of international trade routes and the critical need for diversified supply chains to mitigate future risks . <p> Inflation continued to dominate global discourse , reflecting uneven impacts across regions . Advanced economies , including the United States , Japan , and Germany , managed to rein in inflation by implementing aggressive monetary tightening earlier in the year . By December , inflation in these countries had fallen to 3.8 per cent and 4.1 per cent , respectively . <p> The US Federal Reserve , in particular , implemented three rate cuts in the latter half of 2024 to stimulate slowing investment and consumer spending . However , emerging markets struggled under the weight of sustained inflationary pressures . Pakistan , grappling with an inflation rate of 9.2 per cent , saw its economic challenges compounded by devastating floods that displaced millions and caused $10 billion in damages . These floods disrupted agricultural production , forcing Pakistan to rely on expensive imports of essential food commodities . Despite this , the country 's export-driven sectors demonstrated resilience , with IT exports rising by fifteen per cent and textile exports growing by twelve per cent , contributing to an unexpected appreciation of the rupee . <p> Financial markets in 2024 mirrored the broader economic volatility , reflecting a combination of recovery and disruption . The S&amp;P 500 recorded a modest six per cent gain , buoyed by the strong performance of technology and renewable energy stocks . Meanwhile , Bitcoin crossed the unprecedented $100,000 mark by year-end , driven by growing institutional adoption and an expanded role for blockchain technology in global finance and logistics . Central bank digital currencies gained momentum as nations like China , India , and Brazil operationalized their frameworks , reshaping global monetary systems and offering faster , more secure transaction mechanisms . However , these developments also raised questions about the future of decentralized cryptocurrencies and the ability of traditional banking models to adapt to an increasingly digital economy . <p> Artificial intelligence emerged as the most transformative force of 2024 , contributing an estimated $1.5 trillion to global GDP and revolutionizing industries from healthcare to agriculture . AI-driven innovations improved diagnostics , optimized supply chains , and introduced new efficiencies in energy management . Yet , the rapid adoption of AI also displaced millions of workers globally , igniting debates over job security , the ethical implications of automation , and the pressing need for workforce retraining initiatives . In Pakistan , AI began to make inroads in agriculture , where predictive analytics enhanced crop management , and in disaster preparedness , where machine learning tools helped mitigate the impacts of climate-induced floods . <p> Climate change remained an omnipresent concern , with its economic and human toll becoming ever more apparent . Prolonged droughts in South America devastated agricultural yields , driving up global food prices and creating acute shortages in import-dependent regions . The COP29 summit in Nairobi became a critical forum for advancing climate policy , culminating in a $150 billion pledge from developed nations to fund renewable energy projects in the Global South . Pakistan emerged as a key participant in these initiatives , generating $300 million through carbon credit trading to fund its ambitious reforestation programs . However , these efforts were overshadowed by the broader consequences of inaction , including rising sea levels , increasingly severe weather events , and the displacement of millions . <p> Space exploration gained new significance in 2024 , with the global space economy surpassing $600 billion . Governments and private entities like SpaceX and Blue Origin pushed forward with lunar exploration and satellite deployments , while the United Nations established a regulatory framework for governing extraterrestrial resource extraction . These developments underscored the growing economic potential of space , as well as its importance as a new arena for scientific discovery and international collaboration . <p> Financial markets in 2024 mirrored the broader economic volatility , reflecting a combination of recovery and disruption . <p> As the world transitions into 2025 , the events of the previous year have set the stage for a period of significant transformation . The unresolved Ukraine conflict will remain a central focus , influencing energy markets , global alliances , and NATO 's strategic priorities . The ripple effects of Donald Trump 's return to the US presidency could redefine American foreign and domestic policies , potentially recalibrating global trade agreements , NATO commitments , and climate strategies . His administration 's expected emphasis on " America First " policies may create tensions within multilateral frameworks , particularly those focused on sustainability and global cooperation . <p> The Paris Agreement 's review deadlines will mark a critical juncture for global climate action in 2025 . Nations will face intense scrutiny as they update their emissions reduction targets and outline tangible plans for achieving them . Failure to meet these commitments could undermine global efforts to combat climate change , while successful implementation would accelerate the transition to renewable energy and bolster international collaboration . <p> China 's Belt and Road Initiative is poised to expand further , with new infrastructure projects planned across Africa and Central Asia . These investments are expected to deepen China 's influence in emerging markets , challenging Western development models and reshaping trade routes . Simultaneously , the launch of the BRICS bloc 's commodity-backed trading currency in 2025 could disrupt the dominance of the US dollar , creating new dynamics in global trade and finance . <p> Artificial intelligence will remain at the forefront of technological innovation in 2025 , with its integration across sectors like defence , agriculture , and healthcare unlocking trillions in economic value . However , ethical concerns surrounding data privacy , algorithmic bias , and workforce displacement will intensify , requiring robust regulatory frameworks and international agreements . The upcoming AI Governance Summit in Geneva will be a pivotal moment in setting global standards for the responsible use of artificial intelligence . <p> The global financial system is poised for significant evolution , driven by the continued adoption of central bank digital currencies and the growing regulation of cryptocurrencies . These changes will challenge traditional banking models while opening new opportunities for financial inclusion , particularly in underbanked regions . The success of these systems will depend on their ability to balance innovation with security and accessibility . <p> The urgency of climate action will dominate 2025 's agenda , with the success of green hydrogen projects , solar farms , and wind energy initiatives hinging on sustained investments and international cooperation . Developing nations like Pakistan will need to expand their participation in global carbon markets and scale up climate adaptation programs to protect vulnerable communities . The international community 's ability to deliver on its financial and policy commitments will be critical in mitigating the escalating impacts of climate change . <p> The social fabric of many nations will also face continued strain as inequality deepens . The wealthiest one per cent of the population controlled 46 per cent of global wealth in 2024 ; a disparity that is likely to grow unless addressed through bold policy interventions . Grassroots movements advocating for universal basic income , wealth redistribution , and expanded social safety nets are expected to gain traction , particularly in regions where economic opportunities remain limited . Governments will need to implement inclusive growth strategies to bridge these divides and create more equitable societies . <p> The writer is a financial expert and can be reached at **26;625;TOOLONG . He tweets @JawadSaleem1982. 
@@119371960 <p> The Iran-backed Huthis control large parts of Yemen after seizing Sanaa and ousting the government in 2014 . <p> Since the eruption of war in Gaza in October last year , the Huthis -- claiming solidarity with Palestinians -- have fired a series of missiles and drones at Israel . <p> They have stepped up their attacks since November 's ceasefire between Israel and another Iran-backed group , Hezbollah in Lebanon . <p> Israel has also struck Yemen , including targeting Sanaa 's international airport on Thursday in an attack that came as the head of the World Health Organization was about to board a plane . <p> The Huthis have also attacked commercial shipping in the Red Sea , prompting reprisal strikes by the United States and sometimes Britain . <p> Earlier Friday , before the strike on Sanaa , tens of thousands of people gathered to protest and express solidarity with Palestinians . <p> " The equation has changed and has become : ( targeting ) airport for airport , port for port , and infrastructure for infrastructure , " Huthi supporter Mohammed al-Gobisi said . <p> " We will not get tired or bored of supporting our brothers in Gaza . " <p> Israel 's strike on the Sanaa international airport on Thursday shattered windows and left the top of the control tower a bombed-out shell . <p> A witness told AFP that the raids also targeted the adjacent Al-Dailami air base , which shares the airport 's runway . <p> " The attack resulted in four dead until now and around 20 wounded from staff , airport and passengers , " Huthi Deputy Transport Minister Yahya al-Sayani said . <p> It occurred as the head of the UN 's World Health Organization , Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus , was preparing to fly out , and left one UN crew member injured . <p> Tedros was in Yemen to seek the release of UN staff detained for months by the Huthis , and to assess the humanitarian situation . He later posted on social media that he had safely reached Jordan with his team . <p> He said the injured member of the UN 's Humanitarian Air Service " underwent successful surgery and is now in stable condition " . <p> Israel 's military did not immediately respond to a request for comment on whether they knew at the time that the WHO chief was there . <p> An Israeli statement said its targets included " military infrastructure " at the airport and power stations in Sanaa and Hodeida -- a major entry point for humanitarian aid -- as well as other facilities at several ports . Huthis use these sites " to smuggle Iranian weapons into the region and for the entry of senior Iranian officials " , the statement said . <p> But UN humanitarian coordinator Julien Harneis said the airport was " a civilian location " which the UN also uses , and the strikes took place as " a packed civilian airliner from Yemenia Air , carrying hundreds of Yemenis , was about to land " . <p> Although the plane " was able to land safely ... it could have been far , far worse " , Harneis said . <p> In his latest warning to the Huthis , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Israel 's strikes would " continue until the job is done " . <p> " We are determined to cut this branch of terrorism from the Iranian axis of evil , " he said in a video statement . <p> UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres denounced the escalation in hostilities , and said bombing transportation infrastructure threatened humanitarian operations in Yemen , where 80 percent of the population depends on aid . <p> The United Nations has called Yemen " the largest humanitarian crisis in the world " , with 24.1 million people in need of humanitarian aid and protection . <p> " If that airport is disabled , it will paralyze humanitarian operations . " <p> After the attack on Sanaa airport , Huthis said they fired a missile at Ben Gurion Airport outside Tel Aviv and launched drones at the city and a ship in the Arabian Sea . <p> The Israeli military said the same day a missile launched from Yemen had been intercepted . Israeli " aggression will only increase the determination and resolve of the great Yemeni people to continue supporting the Palestinian people " , a Huthi statement said Friday . 
@@119371985 <h> One fifth of the world 's children affected by war : says UNICEF <p> Displaced children in front of makeshift tents in Rafah on March 14 , 2024 . PHOTO : AFP <p> The United Nations has issued a warning that nearly one in five children worldwide reside in regions impacted by war . UNICEF , the global body 's children 's agency , has reported that 473 million children are facing the most severe violence witnessed since World War II , a number that has nearly doubled since 1990 . <p> The UN has documented a record 32,990 grave violations against 22,557 children , marking the highest number on record . Shockingly , approximately 44 percent of the nearly 45,000 victims of the conflict in Gaza were children . Furthermore , there have been more child casualties in the war in Ukraine in the first nine months of 2024 than in the entire previous year . <p> A Palestinian child on the rubble left by an Israeli strike on Nuseirat refugee camp , on December 13 , 2024 . Reuters <p> UNICEF 's Executive Director , Catherine Russell , expressed deep concern , stating , " By almost every measure , 2024 has been one of the most devastating years for children in conflict in UNICEF 's history . Children living in conflict zones are more likely to face challenges such as lack of education , malnutrition , and displacement compared to those in peaceful areas . " <p> UNICEF also highlighted a significant rise in violence against young women and girls , particularly in Haiti where cases of abuse and assault surged by 1,000 percent in 2024 . Malnutrition is another major issue affecting children in conflict zones , with Sudan and Gaza being particularly affected . It was noted that half a million individuals in five conflict-affected countries are experiencing famine . <p> A Palestinian girl reacts in the aftermath of Israeli strikes , in Khan Younis in the southern Gaza Strip , October 14 . PHOTO : REUTERS <p> Gaza is facing a healthcare crisis , with a polio outbreak detected in July . The UN responded by launching a mass vaccination campaign , reaching 90 percent of children in the enclave despite challenging conditions . However , the UN emphasized that beyond Gaza , 40 percent of children in conflict zones globally are in urgent need of humanitarian assistance . 
@@119372025 <p> A United Nations official expressed grave concern regarding the ongoing Israeli military actions in Gaza , highlighting civilian casualties and the destruction of medical facilities . <p> Stephanie Tremblay , a UN spokeswoman , condemned the continuing attacks across Gaza , which have resulted in significant Palestinian casualties . " We are alarmed by ongoing attacks across the Strip that have left scores of Palestinians dead , " Tremblay said in a statement to the press . <p> In a report from Kamal Adwan Hospital in Beit Lahia , northern Gaza , a medical source confirmed to Anadolu that Israeli forces had set fire to several sections of the hospital . Tremblay added that an Israeli airstrike near the hospital on Thursday night reportedly killed dozens , including healthcare workers . <p> " In Kamal Adwan hospital today , staff , patients , and their companions were forced out of the facility . Arrests and significant damage to the hospital have been reported , " she said . <p> The UN official further emphasized that the UN teams are facing " systematic denials " of access to the besieged northern Gaza region , with the latest attempt to reach these areas blocked by Israeli authorities . <p> " Just today , another attempt by the UN to reach besieged parts of North Gaza governorate was denied by the Israeli authorities , " Tremblay stated . <p> Turning to the West Bank , Tremblay raised concerns over the ongoing Israeli military operations , particularly in the Tulkarm refugee camp . <p> As of December 26 , at least 20 Palestinians had been killed by Israeli forces in a span of 10 days , including 12 deaths resulting from airstrikes . Tremblay noted , " Our humanitarian colleagues say Israel 's military operation in Tulkarm 's refugee camp caused extensive damage to infrastructure . " <p> She also pointed out the excessive use of force , noting , " Lethal , war-like tactics are being applied repeatedly during these operations in the West Bank , raising concerns over the use of force that exceeds law enforcement standards . " <p> According to the UN 's Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs ( OCHA ) , more than 4,700 Palestinians have been displaced across the West Bank this year , including nearly 2,000 children . <p> In response to the Israeli raid on Kamal Adwan Hospital , the Palestinian resistance group Hamas denied Israeli claims that it was targeting Hamas fighters inside the facility . <p> Hamas labeled the Israeli raid a " heinous crime , " accusing Israel of using the false claim of Hamas presence to justify the destruction of the hospital . <p> The group called for an independent investigation by the UN into Israeli actions in northern Gaza , which Hamas described as part of a broader " plan of genocide and forced displacement . " <p> Since October 5 , Israel has conducted a large-scale ground offensive in northern Gaza , claiming the operation targets Hamas , but Palestinians argue that the true aim is the occupation of the region and the forced displacement of its population . <p> Humanitarian aid has been severely restricted , exacerbating the dire situation for those remaining in the enclave . <p> As of December , the death toll in Gaza has surpassed 45,400 , with much of the area reduced to rubble following the escalation of violence after a Hamas attack on Israel on October 7 , 2023 . <p> The International Criminal Court recently issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant for war crimes in Gaza . <p> Israel is also facing a case at the International Court of Justice for alleged genocide. 
@@119372061 <p> It was in June just last year that 209 Pakistanis and 28 from Pakistan-administered Kashmir drowned off the Greek coast in the Mediterranean trying to cross over illegally in search of a new life filled with the promises of better living and for supporting family members praying for their safe journey back in Pakistan . <p> There was a lot of hue and cry and promises made to put a stop to such illegal journeys that claim precious lives of our youth and everyone hoped such tragedies will not occur anymore and those responsible for the tragedy will be given due punishment . <p> Alas that was not to be . Tragedy of the same nature and at the same place has again claimed precious young Pakistani lives . Only a few days ago , another boat carrying illegal immigrants from Pakistan drowned in the Mediterranean and while 5 bodies were recovered another 35 were presumed dead and the authorities abandoned their search and rescue operation . <p> This route is most notorious and responsible for claiming hundreds of lives from many other nations . While many of the other victims are escaping war in their countries mostly related to the Arab Spring and are truly displaced and their families lives are endangered there are not any such compulsions for those who are leaving Pakistan and undertaking unnecessary risks in the hope of enhancing their standard of living , which also mostly fails to materialize as they end up doing menial jobs or exploited by gangs who are in the lookout to take advantage of such illegal entrants . <p> How did young people from Pakistan that has traditionally very strong family ties develop this penchant to embark on hazardous journeys across the world is a question seeking an answer . In the early days of Pakistan there was no such motivation and the young were content to live in their native land , study and seek employment at home . <p> The longest distance anyone really travelled in those days for the sake of employment were government servants who had to move when transferred or young people attracted by the countless employment opportunities available in Karachi ? <p> Yes Karachi was the bedrock of employment in those days . There was hardly any world class airline that did not touch down in Karachi and there was an abundance of employment . The sea port was also as busy as the airport and young people could after basic education join a ship and many of them reached the stature of captain and saw the world in a much more respectable manner than facing dangers crammed up in a boat filled with illegal immigrants . <p> It was not just the opportunities available but the mindset of the time.The most important thing was that people were used to simple living and more important living within their means . The mighty wave of Dubai Chalo had not yet swept the country . <p> The first few that migrated inspired many more . Attention was also drawn to their success when their houses received refrigerators , VCRs , air conditioners and other items that the ordinary Pakistani could not easily afford . Suddenly , people realized that there is a much grander lifestyle awaiting and they got drawn in by its glitter and the exodus begin which has now reached its peak and the frenzy of migration knows no bounds . <p> The fact is that as the number of migrants has increased globally it is becoming more and more difficult to migrate , and now there are very few countries where our people can legally migrate and find suitable jobs . Increasing wars in the Middle East with the latest assault on Gaza is driving thousands to Europe and other parts of the world looking for refuge and suitable standard of living . <p> In the present scenario it is almost suicidal for our young men to attempt such journeys but than most of them do not know the hazards facing such adventures and they must be educated so that they do not risk their lives . If those promoting illegal migration for personal gains are presenting a rosy picture to our young we should also launch a campaign to inform all and sundry of the hazards of such illegal journeys . <p> Social media which speaks the language of the young in our society should be extensively used for such campaigns . These and other steps are desperately required to put a stop to these tragedies on the high seas ; otherwise , we will continue to lose our young leaving the affected families scarred for life . 
@@119372107 <p> BEIJING : The top diplomats of China and Iran agreed Saturday that the Middle East is " not a battleground for the big powers " and should not be an arena of geopolitical competition between countries outside the region . Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi agreed that " the international community should respect the sovereignty , security , stability , unity and territorial integrity of Middle East countries , " according to a readout from Beijing 's foreign ministry . <p> Araghchi is on his first visit to China since being appointed foreign minister of Iran . <p> The two major trading partners reiterated calls for a ceasefire in Gaza , the proper implementation of the ceasefire in Lebanon , and the " integrated promotion of counter-terrorism , reconciliation and humanitarian processes in Syria " , according to the readout . <p> " The two sides agreed that the Middle East belongs to the people of the Middle East , and is not a battleground for the big powers , and should not be a victim of geopolitical competition and conflicts between countries from outside the region , " the ministry said . <p> China and Iran were both supporters of ousted Syrian president Bashar al-Assad . Syria 's new leader , Ahmed al-Sharaa , is an ardent opponent of Tehran . Araghchi and Wang also discussed Iran 's nuclear programme , which governments including Britain and the United States say could be on its way to building weapons . <p> Tensions have soared over Tehran 's nuclear ambitions since then-president Donald Trump pulled the United States out of a landmark agreement that traded sanctions relief for limits on Iran 's nuclear program . <p> China is a signatory to that agreement , and Wang told Araghchi Saturday that Beijing " firmly supports the Iranian side in safeguarding its legitimate rights and interests " . <p> China is Iran 's largest trading partner and a top buyer of its sanctioned oil . 
@@119372123 <h> Gaza death toll nears 45,500 as Israel kills 48 more Palestinians <p> At least 48 more Palestinians were killed in Israeli attacks in the Gaza Strip , bringing the total number of deaths since October of last year to 45,484 , the Health Ministry in the enclave said on Saturday . <p> According to a ministry statement , approximately 108,090 people have also been injured during the ongoing genocidal attacks . <p> " Israeli forces killed 48 people and injured 52 others in two massacres of families in the last 24 hours , " the ministry said . <p> " Many people are still trapped under the rubble and on the roads as rescuers are unable to reach them , " it added . <p> Israel has launched a genocidal war on the Gaza Strip following a cross-border attack by the Palestinian group Hamas on October 7 , 2023 . <p> The second year of genocide in Gaza has drawn growing international condemnation , with officials and institutions labeling the attacks and blocking of aid deliveries as a deliberate attempt to destroy a population . <p> On Nov. 21 , the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant for war crimes and crimes against humanity in Gaza . 
@@119372145 <h> Houthis vow to continue attacking Israel despite strikes on Yemen <p> Yemen - A Houthi political official says the group will continue attacking Israel in solidarity with the Palestinians despite the escalating Israeli air strikes in Yemen . Mohammed al-Bukhaiti told the BBC that the Houthis would " escalate our military targeting of Israel " until it stopped what he described as " the genocide in Gaza " . <p> On Thursday , Israeli warplanes struck the international airport in Yemen 's capital , Sanaa , and ports and power stations on the Red Sea coast , killing at least four people . <p> Israel 's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu warned that its response to more than a year of missile and drone attacks by the Iran-backed group was " just getting started " . <p> Overnight , the Houthis launched another ballistic missile at Israel , which the Israeli military said was intercepted before it reached Israeli territory . The UN 's secretary general said he was " gravely concerned " by the intensified escalation . <p> He also called the strikes on the airport and ports were " especially alarming " and warned that they posed " grave risks to humanitarian operations " in the war-torn country . <p> The Houthis , who control north-western Yemen , began attacking Israel and international shipping shortly after the start of the war between Israel and Hamas in Gaza in October 2023 . <p> Israel has carried out four rounds of air strikes against the Houthis since July in retaliation for the 400 missiles and drones that the Israeli military says have been launched at the country from Yemen , most of which have been shot down . <p> The US and UK have also carried out air strikes in Yemen in response to the group 's attacks on dozens of merchant vessels in the southern Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden . <p> Mohammed al-Bukhaiti , a member of the Houthis ' political bureau , told the BBC 's Newshour programme on Friday that Yemenis were now " moving to a direct confrontation " with the US , UK and Israel after fighting what he called their " tools " during Yemen 's decade-long civil war . He appeared to be referring to the Saudi-led coalition that intervened in support of the Yemeni government when the Houthis seized control of Sanaa in 2015 . <p> " We are committed to continuing our military operation in support of Gaza and we will not stop until the genocide crimes and the siege on Gaza stop . We are going to escalate our military targeting of Israel , " he said . Israel has vehemently denied that its forces are committing genocide against Palestinians in Gaza . <p> Bukhaiti said the Houthis did not need the support of Iran , which has seen its allies Hamas and Hezbollah devastated by wars with Israel over the past 14 months . <p> " We have enough capabilities - militarily , economically , and even in popular support - to go through this battle , even if we are on our own , " he insisted . He also said the Houthis expected an escalation by the US after President-elect Donald Trump took office next month , but he warned that it would " backfire " . <p> Israel 's prime minister said on Thursday evening that his country had " attacked targets of the Houthi terrorist organisation " as part of what he called a " war of redemption " . " We are determined to cut off this terrorist arm of Iran 's axis of evil . We will persist until we get the job done , " Benjamin Netanyahu said . <p> Defence Minister Israel Katz meanwhile warned that Israel would " hunt down all the Houthi leaders " , as it had done with the leaders of Hamas and Hezbollah . UN spokeswoman St ? phanie Tremblay said Secretary General Ant ? nio Guterres remained " deeply concerned about the risk of further escalation in the region and reiterates his call for all parties concerned to cease all military actions and exercise utmost restraint " . 
@@119372155 <h> Those matters of principle could only be safeguarded if you have the nerves of steel . <p> Young man : Perhaps I did not phrase my question properly . Let me try again . In our country , why do our politicians keep cribbing about the Establishment 's ' intrusive role ' but do not wish to break the shackles ? Whether in power or sitting on the opposition benches , they play the victim card and keep blaming each other for being ' their ' product . I want to know the real reasons for this paradox . Let 's say I clear the CSS exam and get selected for any service ; should n't I be able to know who my real bosses are ? How will I be able to serve the people of my country ? <p> Old man : If I were on the Selection Board , I would have disqualified you for asking this idiotic question . By joining the Government Service , you are bound to serve the Government . It is not the People 's Service . It is the Government Service . Clear your perceptions first . Now , would it matter to you where the orders came from ? Orders are there to be followed . End of story . The only relevant question in bureaucracy is : Sir , how much time do I have to complete this task ? <p> Young man : That is discouraging ... ! ! ! Does it mean whatever my mentor said was a lie ? He said that he never compromised on matters of principle , and he retired as a Federal Secretary . <p> Old man : Those matters of principle could only be safeguarded if you have the nerves of steel required to stay on course . Secondly , ask your mentor if he was able to make any difference . The plaques have his much less educated Minister 's name on them -- the tasks that he completed within the stipulated time . He is living an ordinary retired life in a rented apartment , whereas his clerks have houses for each of their children . What would you prefer ? <p> Young man : Even more discouraging ... ! ! ! Sir , if that is the case , why do thousands of young boys and girls appear for the CSS exam every year ? <p> Old man : They do n't have better choices . Secondly , the driving force here is not to serve the country or the people . The objective is to get a decent job . My dear future bureaucrat , if you want to become a boss , start a business or be a plumber or a motor mechanic . <p> Old man : Both . But skills and talent are not enough to be at the top . You need to be in the right place at the right time as well . <p> Young man : Coming back to my questions again , Sir . How would you explain the takeover of Afghanistan and Syria by bad and good ' terrorists ' respectively under the watchful eyes of the United Nations ? The annihilation of Gaza in the Muslim neighbourhood ? The sudden silence of the lambs between Iran and Israel after an exchange of missiles ? A pat on the back for Netanyahu soon after his indictment by the International Criminal Court ? The open-ended Ukraine war in the heart of Europe ? The Sino-US trade war amidst an increase in bilateral trade ? <p> Old man : Somehow , everyone seems to be in a hurry to achieve the stated and unstated goals while showing no respect for any rules or laws , let alone morals . Everyone is talking . No one is listening . That 's a bad omen . However , do n't worry about your future . The world is not likely to complete its destruction in the next three to four decades . You might be retired by then . For the time being , let those who need to act or react worry about such events . Answers to these questions are not going to help you in any way unless you desire to score a point or two in any WhatsApp group . <p> Old man : Why should I be bothered about something I do n't have any control over ? What bothers me right now is that I am getting late for my dental appointment . <p> Young man : How do you see the ongoing unending political uncertainty in Pakistan , Sir ? When do you think this charade will end ? <p> Old man : For the ones in power , there exists no political uncertainty . Yes , as Khan wants to become the PM again -- his party feels that way . <p> Young man : Last question , Sir . Power politics in the age of Artificial Intelligence ? Why do you think Khan is asking Washington for help ? <p> Old man : Power politics breeds power-hungry foxes . AI is yet another way to wield power . Those who rule economically or otherwise hardly care about the edicts of morality . For them , being in power and making more money is the ultimate objective . In the process , they remain open to new alliances or to sacrificing existing relationships . The world has always been full of paradoxes . The difference ? No one has the time to sugarcoat their desires .... ! ! Did n't you mention the comedy of errors a while ago ? Read that play again and you might find answers to some of your questions . And on Khan , try to understand what Shakespeare said in the same play : Since mine own doors refuse to entertain me , I 'll knock elsewhere , to see if they 'll disdain me. 
@@119372383 <p> GAZA : Gaza health officials said on Saturday that Israeli forces detained the director of a hospital in the north , which the World Health Organization said was put out of service by an Israeli raid . <p> " The occupation forces have taken dozens of the medical staff from Kamal Adwan Hospital to a detention centre for interrogation , including the director , Hossam Abu Safiyeh , " the health ministry in Gaza said in a statement . <p> The Gaza civil defence agency also reported that Abu Safiyeh had been detained , adding that the agency 's director for the north , Ahmed Hassan al-Kahlout was among those held . <p> On Friday , the Israeli military said it had launched an operation in the area of Kamal Adwan Hospital , alleging the facility was a " key stronghold for terrorist organisations " . <p> Palestinian militant group Hamas denied its militants were present in the hospital and charged that Israeli forces had stormed the facility on Friday . <p> The World Health Organization , meanwhile , said the Israeli military operation had put the hospital out of service . <p> " This morning 's raid on Kamal Adwan Hospital has put this last major health facility in north Gaza out of service . Initial reports indicate that some key departments were severely burnt and destroyed during the raid , " the WHO said in a statement on X. <h> ABOUT US <p> ARY NEWS brings you 24/7 Live Streaming , Headlines , Bulletins , Talk Shows , Infotainment , and much more . Watch minute-by-minute updates of current affairs and happenings from Pakistan and all around the world ! 
@@119402744 <h> 2025 : Year of ' Universal Peace ' <p> There have been too many global wars and conflicts within the first 24 years of the 21st century . Several countries have changed for good . The people of Afghanistan , Iraq , Libya , Yemen , Syria , Palestine , and Ukraine have suffered immensely due to unnecessary wars . <p> Unfortunately , all of these were fought between Unequal Military Powers ( UMPs ) because on the one side was the military might of the United States ( US ) and the unflinching support of the European Allies , and on the other was a weak developing country . The outcomes were obvious ; the smaller and weaker states , as mentioned , were destroyed and may never be the same . <p> As we enter 2025 , the Russia-Ukraine war continues with increasing intensity as it approaches the end of its third year . Likewise , Israeli strikes on non-combatant civilians and children continue with more force and venom . Therefore , there is a need to rethink the universal peace and stability across all world regions . <p> If one follows the election promises of incoming President Donald Trump , one can only hope that his Administration will strive to stop the ongoing wars and not start a new war during his new term . President Trump 's anti-war record shows that he will try his best to fulfil the promises made to the Muslims in the US that he will stop the war in Gaza and strive for a broader peace in the Middle Eastern region . <p> President Trump 's anti-war record shows that he will try his best to fulfil the promises made to the Muslims in the US . <p> The US-led Western allies have been waging wars as an instrument of policy , religiously following Carl Von Clausewitz 's precepts . However , they did not realise that other actors in the 21st Century had vastly different ideologies about power and its applications to influence the behaviour of their allies . For instance , China adopted Sun Tzu 's precepts of winning wars without fighting and concentrated on its economy instead of waging wars within the region or beyond , even when it had conflicts in the South China Sea and with India in its northeast , alongside an ever-pressing issue of Taiwan . <p> The post-World War II scenario introduced a Cold War between the two superpowers of the time : the US and the USSR . However , the 21st-century competition has a vast canvas . China is not challenging the US military prowess but its ability to influence the behaviour of its allies and other developing nations . The physical engagement of the US in wars and conflicts since the tragic events of 9/11 has virtually drained its economic resources . " The $36 trillion gross federal debt includes debt held by the public and debt held by federal trust funds and other government accounts . In fundamental terms , this can be considered debt that the government owes to others plus debt it owes to itself . " <p> The US seems to be losing its grip not only on its close allies in different regions but also among the member countries of the Global South , which includes over 130 states in different regions . Together with Russia , China is striving for de-dollarization in the trade markets , and if that happens , the US will lose its leverage and monopoly over world trade . <p> I fully understand that the realists will not support the idea of universal peace because , for them , the interests of the states are supreme , even if their peripheral interests are challenged . The fundamental difference between Sun Tzu and the Machiavellian precepts lies in the accumulation and dispensation of power . One talks of influencing the behaviour of the allies through diplomacy and cooperation , and the other believes in doing the same through compellence and sanctions . <p> The concept of forcing an ally or a neutral country to bandwagon with a powerful state now seems to be backfiring because there is another player in the field with a better offer of productive engagement . President Xi Jinping 's vision of the Belt and Road Initiative ( BRI ) has revolutionised development and progress in the developing world . Africa appears to have adopted the concept in letter and spirit . Several nations have challenged the continued hegemony of their colonial masters and acted far more independently . France seems to be a net loser in West Africa as BRI projects show promise to ordinary people of least developed countries . <p> In my opinion , President Trump 's reentry into the White House after a four-year absence is perhaps the last chance for the US and its allies to prolong its superpower status for another decade or so . If Trump fails to live up to its promises of striving for a broader peace and denying wars as an instrument of policy , the US will be recorded as the shortest-time superpower in the world 's history . <p> The writer of this article has authored three international books : " Nuclear Deterrence and Conflict Management Between India and Pakistan " " South Asia Needs Hybrid Peace " and " Understanding Sun Tzu and the Art of Hybrid War . " 
@@119402774 <h> 75,000 Palestinian lives at risk as Israel 's Gaza siege escalates <p> The World Health Organization ( WHO ) warned that Israel 's over 80-day siege of northern Gaza is jeopardizing the lives of the remaining 75,000 Palestinians in the region . <p> This statement followed Israel 's recent attack on the Kamal Adwan Hospital , which resulted in the destruction of the last fully operational medical facility in northern Gaza . <p> The Israeli airstrike on Thursday killed nearly 50 Palestinians , including three medical workers . WHO condemned the attack , stating that it severely damaged the hospital 's key facilities , including its laboratory , surgical unit , and medical store . <p> The raid forced twelve patients and a female staff member to evacuate to the non-functional Indonesian Hospital , which lacked the resources to provide proper care . <p> Reports also indicated that some individuals were stripped of their clothing and forced to walk toward southern Gaza . <p> The WHO highlighted that attacks on healthcare facilities and workers have become a daily occurrence , with over 50 verified attacks on medical sites since October 2024 . <p> The organization called for urgent efforts to restore healthcare services in northern Gaza , stressing that such attacks on hospitals may violate international humanitarian law . <p> The ongoing Israeli offensive has resulted in nearly 45,500 deaths in Gaza since the Hamas attack on October 7 , 2023 . <p> The International Criminal Court has issued arrest warrants for Israeli leaders , including Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , on charges of war crimes as Israel is also facing a genocide case at the International Court of Justice for its actions in Gaza . 
@@119402820 <h> ICC 's challenge to the West <p> On November 21 , 2024 , the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant , accusing them of war crimes and crimes against humanity in Gaza . The warrants , requested by ICC Prosecutor Karim Khan in May 2024 , were issued by the court 's Pre-Trial Chamber I , which found " reasonable grounds " to believe that both officials were responsible for actions leading to starvation and deprivation of essential resources for Gaza 's civilian population . Under the Rome Statute , the ICC 's member countries are obligated to arrest individuals named in such warrants if they enter their territories . <p> SZR : Do you think the International Criminal Court 's move represents a meaningful step towards accountability for war crimes , or is it merely a symbolic gesture unlikely to bring real consequences for Israeli leaders ? <p> HM : These warrants are an incredibly meaningful step , both with respect to the Israel/Palestine conflict in general , and the legitimacy of the International Criminal Court . This is the first time western-allied leaders have been charged with international crimes . <p> The ICC has long been criticised for dealing exclusively with African conflicts or those who are enemies of the west , like Putin . The warrants signal that despite the Israel-led organised campaign of intimidation of Court officials and attempts to discredit the Court , the judges were still able to apply the law to the facts in an impartial way . <p> The cases against Netanyahu and Gallant are a major test for the ICC , and these warrants are just the beginning . Israel will still be able to challenge the jurisdiction and admissibility of the cases , and we should keep a close on eye on these proceedings moving forward . <p> SZR : Since neither Israel nor the United States are members of the ICC , how practical are these arrest warrants to enforce ? What potential avenues might Israel and its allies have to challenge or undermine the court 's jurisdiction ? <p> HM : As we have seen with Omar Al-Bashir , former President of Sudan , leaders wanted by the ICC can evade arrest for many years -- and perhaps indefinitely . The first ICC warrant for Al-Bashir was issued in 2009 , yet he has managed to travel freely to ICC member countries like South Africa , Malawi , Uganda and Jordan . <p> Practically speaking , Netanyahu may find that some ICC members will be unwilling to enforce the warrant against him ; Hungary 's Prime Minister , Viktor Orban , has already signaled that Hungary plans to defy its obligations under the Rome Statute by inviting Netanyahu for a diplomatic visit . <p> We can also expect Israel to continue to challenge the Court 's jurisdiction and the admissibility of these cases . Israel may also argue that Netanyahu enjoys head of state immunity . We can also expect the Trump administration , and also the Biden administration in its last days , to work with Israel to find new ways to undermine the work of the Court , perhaps even threatening to sanction states who cooperate with the work of the Court . <p> SZR : The ICC has no enforcement mechanism of its own and relies on member states to execute arrests . With over 120 member countries obligated to detain Netanyahu and Gallant if they enter their territory , what are the potential consequences if these states fail to comply with the warrants ? <p> HM : The political consequences of an ICC member state refusing to arrest and surrender Netanyahu or Gallant would be different depending on the state involved . For example , the African Union has previously called for states to withdraw from the ICC on the basis that it was unfairly targeting African leaders . It 's possible , though I think unlikely , that we could see something similar from the G7 or other bodies representing western states . <p> Certainly , for states who played a particularly central role in the creation of the court and who carry a significant share of financial contributions to the Court -- like Canada , the United Kingdom , France and Germany -- failure to cooperate would signal a major policy departure and could jeopardise the future of the institution as a whole . Refusal to cooperate with the Court is also a stand-alone international wrong , for which ICC member states could be held accountable either in their diplomatic relations or , perhaps , at the International Court of Justice . <p> SZR : Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu called the warrants ' absurd and anti-Semitic ' , while President Isaac Herzog said they mark ' a dark day for justice ' and called the court ' a universal laughing stock ' . Foreign Minister Gideon Sa'ar described the ICC as a ' political tool ' for ' the forces of evil ' , and Minister of National Security Itamar Ben Gvir labeled it ' anti-Semitic from start to finish ' . What 's your response to these accusations ? And if Israel continues to ignore the ICC and the warrants , what consequences could it face ? <p> HM : Israeli leaders and their allies label most opposition to Israel 's crimes in Gaza as anti-Semitic . This accusation is , of course , meant to silence and smear supporting freedom and meaningful self-determination for the Palestinian people . It is not anti-Semitic is to criticise the actions of a state , particularly where that state stands credibly accused of committing atrocity crimes . <p> The consequences of Israel 's continued non-cooperation with and active obstruction of the ICC will be mostly political . It will be up to ICC member states to use these warrants to marginalise and isolate Israel in an effort to get its leaders to change course . The warrants can be used to do this in a variety of ways , including serving as evidence in domestic litigation around aid and military trade with Israel . Because actively supporting Israel 's ongoing criminality could amount to criminal responsibility for other leaders , states now have more reason than ever before to reevaluate their relationship with Israel , including the material and moral support they furnish the state 's current regime . <p> SZR : Pro-Israel advocates argue that the ICC is turning a blind eye to others accused of worse atrocities and that leaders from other nations involved in human rights abuses have not been brought before the ICC . What is your take on these claims of the ICC being selective in its application of justice ? <p> HM : The work of the ICC -- or indeed any court of law -- is necessarily selective , in that focus on one case will mean that other cases will receive less attention or resources . The ICC 's mandate is to both punish " the most serious crimes of concern to the international community as a whole " and also to serve as a court of last resort in this respect . In other words , states bear the primary responsibility for addressing these crimes within their domestic jurisdictions . <p> In the case of Israel , there is no credible argument that Israel is pursuing criminal cases against Netanyahu , Gallant , or others for war crimes and crimes against humanity . In addition , there is ample evidence that the level of criminality on display in Gaza is extraordinary ; for example , UNICEF has long warned that Gaza has become the most dangerous place in the world to be a child , and the IPC ( Integrated Food Security Phase Classification ) says that famine is now imminent , with 1.1 million Palestinians experiencing ' catastrophic ' food insecurity . As the pre-trial chamber of the ICC found , there are reasonable grounds to believe that Israeli leaders have intentionally caused this food insecurity and deprived Palestinians of other necessities of life . The context of the alleged crimes -- the 57-year-long brutal occupation of Palestinian land -- makes the situation ever more urgent for international judicial attention . 
@@119402832 <p> Displaced Palestinians flee Rafah with their belongings to safer areas in the southern Gaza Strip on May 7 , 2024 following an evacuation order by the Israeli army the previous day , amid the ongoing conflict between Israel and the Palestinian Hamas movement . File Photo : AFP <p> Follow us <p> CAIRO : Israeli forces carrying out a weeks-long offensive in northern Gaza ordered any residents remaining in Beit Hanoun to leave the town on Sunday , citing Palestinian fighters rocket fire from the area , residents said . <p> The instruction to leave has caused a new wave of displacement although it was not immediately clear how many people were affected , the residents said . <p> Israel says its almost three-month-old aggression in northern Gaza is aimed at Hamas and preventing them from regrouping . Its instructions to civilians to evacuate are meant to keep them out of harm 's way , the military claimed . <p> Palestinian and United Nations officials say no place is safe in Gaza and that evacuations worsen humanitarian conditions of the population . <p> Much of the area around the northern towns of Beit Hanoun , Jabalia and Beit Lahiya has been cleared of people and razed , fuelling speculation that Israel intends to keep the area as a closed buffer zone after the fighting in Gaza ends . <p> The Israeli military announced its new push into the Beit Hanoun area on Saturday . <p> The Palestinian Civil Emergency Service said it had lost communication with people still trapped in the town , and it was unable to send teams into the area because of the raid . <p> Later on Sunday , an Israeli airstrike killed seven people in a house in the town , medics said . There was no immediate Israeli comment . <p> On Friday , Israeli forces stormed the Kamal Adwan hospital in northern Gaza . The military said it was being used by fighters , which Hamas denies . <p> The raid on the hospital , one of three medical facilities on the northern edge of Gaza , put the last major health facility in the area out of service , the World Health Organization ( WHO ) said in a post on X. <p> Some patients were evacuated from Kamal Adwan to the Indonesian Hospital , which is not in service , and medics were prevented from joining them there , the Health Ministry said . Other patients and staff were taken to other medical facilities . <p> On Sunday , health officials said an Israeli tank shell hit the upper floor of the Al-Ahly Arab Baptist Hospital in Gaza City near the X-ray division . <p> Palestinian health officials said Israeli military strikes across the enclave killed at least 23 people on Sunday . One of those strikes killed seven people and wounded others at Al-WAFA Hospital in Gaza City , the Palestinian civil emergency service said in a statement . <p> The Israeli military said the strike was aimed at members of the Hamas " Aerial Defence Unit " , who operated from the compound , saying the place no longer served as a hospital . It said the fighters was using the compound to plan and execute attacks against Israeli troops in the immediate future . <p> Israel 's aggression against Hamas in Gaza has killed more than 45,300 Palestinians , according to health officials in the enclave . Most of the population of 2.3 million people have been displaced and much of Gaza is in ruins . 
@@119402891 <p> Gaza Strip , Palestinian Territories - An Israeli military raid targeting Hamas militants has forced a major hospital in northern Gaza out of service and led to the detention of its director , the WHO and health officials said Saturday . The assault on Kamal Adwan Hospital has rendered the facility " useless " , further worsening Gaza 's severe health crisis , the Palestinian territory 's health officials said . The World Health Organisation said the operation had put the " last major health facility in north Gaza out of service " . " Initial reports indicate that some key departments were severely burnt and destroyed during the raid , " it added in a statement on X. The WHO said 60 health workers and 25 patients in critical condition , including some on ventilators , reportedly remained in the hospital . Patients in moderate to severe condition were forced to evacuate to the destroyed , non-functioning Indonesian Hospital , the UN health agency said , adding it was " deeply concerned for their safety " . <p> Hamas-run Gaza 's health ministry reported that Israeli forces had detained Kamal Adwan 's director , Hossam Abu Safiyeh , along with several medical staff members . AFP was unable to independently verify whether Abu Safiyeh had been detained , but multiple attempts to reach him were unsuccessful . Gaza 's civil defence agency said Abu Safiyeh was held alongside its north Gaza chief , Ahmed Hassan al-Kahlout . The Israeli military did not comment on the detentions . One of the Gazans evacuated from the hospital , who asked to be identified only as Mohammad for security reasons , told AFP some evacuees were interrogated about Hamas . " As we began to exit , the army asked all young men to take off their clothes and walk outside the hospital , " said Mohammad , whose brother was a patient there . <p> " They ( soldiers ) took tens of young men , as well as physicians and patients , to an unknown place ... The young men were interrogated , they were asked about resistance fighters , Hamas and weapons . " <p> Ammar al-Barsh , a resident of Jabalia where the military has focused its assault in recent weeks , said the raid on Kamal Adwan and its environs had left dozens of homes in the area in ruins . " The situation is catastrophic , there is no medical service , no ambulances and no civil defence in the north , " Barsh , 50 , told AFP . The army " continues to raid the Kamal Adwan Hospital and the surrounding houses , and we hear gunfire from Israeli drones and artillery shelling " , he added . 
@@119403092 <h> Hafiz Naeem urges PTI founder to denounce Israel <p> ISLAMABAD : Hafiz Naeem Ur Rehman , the Emir of Jamaat-e-Islami Pakistan , called on Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf ( PTI ) founder , Imran Khan , to publicly declare that he does not recognize Israel , ARY News reported . <p> Speaking at the Solidarity with Palestine Million March on Sunday at Jinnah Avenue , New Blue Area , Hafiz Naeem criticised the prevailing political system , stating that whenever a government is ousted or takes power , they seek support from the United States ( U.S ) . <p> He also pointed out that this trend extends to those who are imprisoned or those seeking release , highlighting the tendency to seek approval from the U.S. for such matters . He specifically urged Imran Khan to show solidarity with Hamas and publicly denounce the state of Israel . <p> The JI supremo further stated that while the U.S. possesses thousands of missiles , it continues to impose sanctions on Pakistan 's missile technology . <p> He emphasised that the nation had sacrificed to develop nuclear weapons , which are vital for the protection of both Pakistan and the Muslim Ummah . He criticised political parties that seek approval from the U.S. to imprison and release individuals , highlighting the need to ensure democratic freedoms for the people . <p> Hafiz Naeem also condemned the U.S. as a " terrorist nation " and argued that Pakistan could never achieve prosperity while under America 's influence . He pointed out that the U.S. labels those who resist its imperialism as terrorists and imposes its own version of democracy . <p> He further stated that Israel could not fight groups like Hamas , as it targets innocent children , and that Israel 's expansionist goals now reach beyond Palestine , with plans involving Syria , Lebanon , and even Medina . <p> The Jamaat-e-Islami leader referenced Pakistan 's founder , Quaid-e-Azam Muhammad Ali Jinnah , who had described Israel as an illegitimate child of the West . " He also expressed his support for the oppressed Palestinian people , noting that Gaza faces harsher cold conditions than Islamabad , with two million people living in camps . <p> He condemned Israel 's actions as genocide , having killed 46,000 people , and criticised the U.S. for supporting this " open terrorism . " Hafiz Naeem pointed out that the indifference of most Muslim countries , except a few , towards the Israeli-Palestinian conflict further strengthens Israel 's position . <p> He concluded by reaffirming that Israel can not stand against the resistance of Muslim fighters , adding that Israel 's aggression would eventually be defeated . <h> ABOUT US <p> ARY NEWS brings you 24/7 Live Streaming , Headlines , Bulletins , Talk Shows , Infotainment , and much more . Watch minute-by-minute updates of current affairs and happenings from Pakistan and all around the world ! 
@@119415547 <h> Jordan to record nearly 3% economic growth in 2025 , experts project <p> Jordan is set to experience an economic growth rate between 2.5 percent and 3 percent in 2025 , bolstered by improvements in the business environment and increased investments , according to economic experts . <p> Adli Kandah noted that this growth would likely lead to a slight reduction in unemployment , although challenges in the labor market persist , the Jordan News Agency reported . <p> The projected growth aligns with the government 's recent corrective measures in the final quarter of 2024 , including reduced penalties for unlicensed vehicles and tax cuts for electric cars . These steps are part of a broader effort to improve economic conditions and enhance both financial and social stability . <p> Jordan has maintained a steady average growth rate of 2.5 percent over the past decade , according to the World Bank , providing a solid foundation for future economic expansion . <p> Kandah also highlighted positive indicators , including regional developments that could benefit Jordan , particularly in foreign trade and investment sectors . He pointed to potential gains from developments in Syria , especially if international sanctions are lifted . <p> Raad Al-Tal , professor of Economics at the University of Jordan , noted that the country 's political stability and economic reforms have helped it remain resilient . Despite regional geopolitical challenges , including the ongoing situation in Gaza , Jordan has shown adaptability . <p> " The tourism sector , in particular , has shown notable recovery , bolstered by improved regional security and increased visitor numbers , " Al-Tal said , as reported by Pentra . He also emphasized the positive impact of remittances from Jordanian expatriates , which have strengthened the country 's monetary reserves . <p> Ahmad Al-Majali , an economic researcher , also confirmed that despite external pressures and regional political turbulence , Jordan 's economy has shown positive performance in 2024 . <p> Al-Majali attributed this resilience to the central role of monetary policy in maintaining stability and the progress achieved under the Economic Modernization Vision . <p> " The monetary policy has served as a fundamental pillar for the economy during this period , " he said . <p> He further emphasized that the Economic Modernization Vision has spurred optimism among investors , contributing to increased economic activity . <p> Looking ahead to 2025 , experts anticipate that lower global interest rates could reduce local financing costs , providing an additional boost to investment . However , they stress that continued economic reforms and efficient public spending are crucial to sustaining this positive trajectory . -- AN 
@@119436253 <p> THE world seems more unstable and unpredictable today than at any time since the end of the Cold War . Heightened geopolitical tensions , wars in Ukraine and the Middle East , and uncertainties in the global risk environment make the international outlook a troubled one for the year ahead . <p> The global order has been fragmenting for some time now . Meanwhile , the shift to a more multipolar world is gathering pace , with Western dominance eroding and multilateral institutions coming under greater stress . Middle powers will play a growing role in shaping geopolitics in a landscape of changes in the global balance of power . <p> One of the biggest questions for 2025 is whether president-elect Donald Trump 's second term in office will unleash a more volatile period in global affairs . Some of his policy plans promise to be disruptive for an already disordered world . Among the top geopolitical developments to watch will be how the US under Trump deals with allies , adversaries and competitors . The future course of relations between the US and China will continue to be the most significant strategic dynamic in the year ahead . Given Trump 's unpredictable and mercurial personality , Sino-US relations will either see further escalation in tensions or some kind of grand bargain driven by Trump 's transactional approach . <p> Nevertheless , his threat of imposing higher tariffs on China as well as other countries with a trade surplus with the US , has prompted many experts to warn that a more intense global trade war will be among 2025 's top risks . The London-based risk consultancy firm , Control Risks , predicts that the coming year will establish " national security as the guiding principle of international trade and investment " . <p> How far Washington will go in trade protectionism advocated by Trump will be consequential for Sino-US relations , as well as for the global economy . Major trading partners especially China , are , however , already working on how to Trump-proof their strategies . The Economist , in its annual publication ' The World Ahead in 2025 ' , notes that Chinese firms are already expanding abroad to get around trade barriers as well as to tap new markets in the Global South . An assessment by BlackRock sees acceleration in technology decoupling between the US and China as a high risk . <p> The year ahead will see rising geopolitical tensions , challenges to global economy and tech disruption . <p> 2025 will also determine how wars in Ukraine and the Middle East will play out . Trump 's statements on Ukraine suggesting a radical shift in policy seem to be making European governments nervous . Often claiming he can end the war " in a day " , Trump is expected to push Ukraine into negotiations with Russia . Although he has not offered any concrete plan to end the conflict , Trump may not be averse to a negotiated outcome that advantages Moscow , by which Ukraine has to cede territory . <p> Trump has also repeatedly said he wants to end the war in the Middle East and ensure a ceasefire in Gaza . While he has avoided specifics , this will almost certainly be on Israel 's terms . He has said the US should stay out of Syria , but it is hard to see how it can do that given the complex regional ramifications of regime change there . <p> Democracy will continue to be under challenge across the world . The trends expected to carry over from previous years are not encouraging -- continuing political polarisation in many countries , with politics becoming increasingly fractured and volatile . The erosion or even disappearance of the middle ground and weakening of the political centre seem to have become a worldwide phenomenon . This is closely associated with the rise of right-wing populism , which is continuing to sweep across much of Europe and is evident elsewhere too . <p> Democracy has declined in almost all regions of the world . This global trend of democratic erosion , recorded by many international organisations , is expected to persist , with increasing ' autocratisation ' and backsliding in democratic rights and freedoms . Global think tanks that evaluate the health of democracy in the world are all quite pessimistic about the future . Political systems in general are seen not to be delivering at a time of heightened public expectations , magnified by social media . Some global risk intelligence companies see the risks of civil unrest running high in most regions of the world . <p> One of the top risks in the year ahead identified by the Global Trade Review , an international trade publication , is what it calls " grey zone aggression " , that is " a threat that is difficult to define but critical to recognise " . This includes disinformation campaigns , cyberattacks and proxy wars , all of which it argues " blur the lines between traditional conflict and peacetime operations " . These newer forms of warfare are now omnipresent , challenging states to develop the capacity and imagination to deal with them . There is also the possibility of ' black swan ' events when sudden , unexpected geopolitical developments with far-reaching consequences can transform existing power configurations and create new challenges . <p> Advances in generative artificial intelligence is another trend to watch in 2025 . AI-powered tools in business , workplaces , entertainment , media , healthcare and personal life will become even more common . They have already brought about significant transformations in these areas . But they have also ushered in an era of tech challenges including for cybersecurity . The military uses of AI pose another challenge . <p> The British think tank Chatham House believes action on global AI governance will receive greater attention in the year ahead . It points to the meeting in February of the AI Action Summit in Paris of government representatives , tech companies , scientists and experts to discuss how to evolve ' public interest ' AI . Advanced technology , in addition to AI , has raised vexing questions of how to respond to its disruptive effects and spawning of new vulnerabilities . A digitalised world faces challenges even as it opens new opportunities in different fields including as a pathway to economic and social progress . <p> The coming year will see a world of geopolitical tensions and economic challenges that will test the resilience of nations as well as the international community 's ability to evolve collective responses to common problems . 
@@119436335 <h> A year of stars for Gaza <p> As another year of horrific human culling in Gaza slips imperceptibly into the next , the images that flooded social media during the first quarter of 2024 have trickled to a solitary drip . Where all eyes were focused briefly on explosions in Rafah , all eyes now anticipate a different kind of explosion : fireworks ringing in the new year . <p> The horror , however , remains for those who are still trapped in Gaza , their lives forever marred by violence and loss . Joining the tide of outrage on social media , a large number of international artists risked their careers in 2024 with their pins , posts , songs , and interviews to condemn Israeli genocide . Here are the stars who stood out . <p> Nicola Coughlan <p> This Irish blonde beauty did not just steal hearts in Bridgerton 's Penelope Featherington ; as well as sporting an Artists4Ceasefire badge , she sealed her reputation by openly speaking up for persecuted Palestinians in an interview with Teen Vogue in April . <p> " There 's a huge connection between Ireland and Palestine that maybe a lot of people are n't aware of , and a shared history , " she explained . " To me it always becomes about supporting innocent people . Are we supporting innocent people no matter where they 're from , who they are ? That 's my drive . " <p> Throughout the year , Coughlan actively used her social media presence to draw attention to and raise funds towards the humanitarian crisis in Gaza . She remains unfazed about the prospect of finding difficulty attracting future roles considering her political stance . Carrying the weight of her conscience , Coughlan revealed that what propels her forward is the knowledge that when she is on her deathbed , she can say she used her influence to make a positive impact around the world . <p> " You do get told , ' You wo n't get work ' , ' You wo n't do this , ' " she admitted . " But I also think , deep down , if you know that you 're coming from a place of ' I do n't want any innocent people to suffer , ' then I 'm not worried about people 's reactions . " <p> Bella Hadid <p> It would be impossible to write about artists vocal about Palestinian support without mentioning American-Palestinian supermodel Bella Hadid , whose stance has been well-documented . As part of her ongoing mission to raise awareness , Hadid turned heads during the Cannes Film Festival in May to make a powerful political statement through fashion as she donned a vintage dress reminiscent of the iconic keffiyeh scarf , a symbol of Palestinian solidarity . <p> " While I still have to go to work , even through this horror , to wear our culture makes me a proud Palestinian , and I want the world to continue to see Palestine , wherever we go , " captioned Hadid . " If you do n't know what 's happening right now in Gaza , watch my stories ( and find other accounts leading to Palestinians on the ground ) and please educate yourself on the ongoing occupation and genocide that is happening RIGHT NOW in Gaza . Do not be desensitised to the horror that is being endured by the Palestinian people . " <p> Macklemore <p> If there was ever an anthem for Palestinian support , it would be American rapper Macklemore 's single Hind 's Hall , released in May . The Seattle native uploaded the fiery track to social media , promising that all proceeds from streaming services would go toward the United Nations Relief and Works Agency ( UNRWA ) , aiding Palestinian refugees . <p> The song 's title came from student protestors at Columbia University , who renamed the residence Hamilton Hall to Hind 's Hall as a tribute to six-year-old Hind Rajab , tragically killed in Gaza by the Israeli forces . A poignant gesture of solidarity with the Palestinian people , the song 's visuals juxtapose footage of police violence against college protestors and deadly explosions in Gaza . <p> Macklemore amplified his efforts with the release of Hind 's Hall 2 in September . As per the rapper 's Instagram handle , Hind 's Hall 2 was produced , written and performed by Arab-American singer Anees Mokhiber , Palestinian rapper MC Abdul , Palestinian-American author and comedian Amer Zahr , and of course , Macklemore himself . <p> Starting with the haunting line " In our lifetime we will be free " , Hind 's Hall 2 relates the ongoing oppression faced by Palestinians in the Gaza Strip at the hands of Israeli forces . Macklemore revealed on Instagram that as with Hind 's Hall , all proceeds from Hind 's Hall 2 will go towards UNRWA . <p> Andrew Garfield <p> Everyone 's favourite Spider-Man validated his celebrity crush status by voicing his stance on Josh Horowitz 's Sad Happy Confused podcast in October . When host Horowitz asked The Amazing Spider-Man star , " Is there anything we need to manifest for you tonight ? " Garfield replied , " We should be putting our energies towards something that actually matters ? maybe the lives of Palestinians in Gaza right now . " <p> Garfield 's words elicited a roar of approval from the crowd as he continued sombrely , " Maybe that 's where we should put our hearts and our energy , and anyone suffering , anyone oppressed , anyone that is suffering under the weight and the horrors of our world right now , anyone who does n't have a choice in living lives of dignity . That 's where our energies should be going right now . " <p> As well as capturing the hearts of the live audience watching the podcast , Garfield 's words resonated with the online community , with fans pledging their admiration for the actor in the comments section of whichever platform the clip was played . <p> " Thank God I did n't have to cancel my celebrity crush , " wrote one fan . " And I love to see that standing up for Palestinians no longer feels as taboo as it once was . " <p> Others who left a mark <p> Others who have been unabashedly pro-Palestine have included Pink Floyd 's Roger Waters , who has been vilified for speaking out in interviews against Israeli forces but remains steadfast in his stance . Rapper Saint Levant , whose real name is Marwan Abdelhamid , has paid homage to his Palestinian roots by announcing the release of his second album , Deira , in honour of a now-demolished hotel of the same name in Gaza . R&amp;B singer Kehlani donned a keffiyeh at one of her concerts in July , as prominent a symbol of Palestinian solidarity as any . Hulk actor Mark Ruffalo and comedian Ramy Youssef , along with over 700 SAG-AFTRA signatories , signed an open letter demanding protection from blacklisting for their pro-Palestine stance amidst the ongoing Israel-Gaza conflict . The letter also called for a permanent ceasefire and condemned violence against journalists . <p> It will be harrowing to see how long these stars will have to speak out against Israeli atrocities , but judging by how the year unfolded , their support looks to continue in 2025. 
@@119436354 <h> The challenges awaiting the world in 2025 <p> The writer is Meritorious Professor International Relations and former Dean Faculty of Social Sciences , University of Karachi . Email : amoonis@hotmail.com <p> The year 2024 was unique in two ways : first , elections were held in the most populous countries like India , the US , Brazil , Indonesia , Pakistan and Bangladesh ; and second , regime change took place in Bangladesh and Syria . Issues like climate change , Ukrainian attacks inside Russia and the ongoing carnage in Gaza also figured notably during the year 2024 . <p> The victory of Donald Trump in November 2024 presidential elections - despite his loss in re-election after his first term in office as well as several cases of fraud and hush money against him - is a landmark event which will not only influence the US but the world at large . When Trump will take oath on January 20 , 2025 , he is expected to take drastic measures ranging from curbing illegal immigration , ending the war in Ukraine and reversing the Biden administration policies in countries like Russia and Pakistan . With the US suffering from a debt of around 30 trillion dollars and other such issues , the Trump administration will have to struggle with managing a huge military expenditure of around 900 billion dollars . <p> For the world to transform positively in 2025 , the world leadership will have to focus on the grave dangers like environment , demography , energy , food , water , etc , instead of pursuing their power ambitions . Can the Trump administration play a leadership role to effectively deal with the aforementioned challenges or it will focus on pursuing an inward approach about issues pertaining to NATO ? Certainly , unlike the 2016 presidential election , this time , Trump has selected his team earlier ; and since it will be his last chance in the White House , he will move faster regardless of ramifications of his policies . <p> The regime change in Syria and Bangladesh in 2024 will have far-reaching implications in the Middle East and South Asia respectively . The oppressive regime of Bashar al-Assad and the civil war in Syria since 2011 devastated the lives of millions of people and destabilised a part of the Middle East . The return of peace , stability and sanity in Syria , by forming an inclusive government , would auger well for the region as a whole provided the mafias which since 2011 played with the lives of people are neutralised and international players also cooperate in giving a break to years of violence . <p> Conspiracy theories circulate that the regime change in Syria was planned to deprive Iran of its strategic ally and Hamas its principal backers , but the new set-up in Damascus , despite its several fault lines , is determined to establish peace and an inclusive government . As a major casualty of the Arab Spring , Syria experienced years of bloodshed and tyranny under Assads . Now , one can expect that the situation will ameliorate in Syria and the neighbouring countries will also benefit from peace . <p> The regime change in Bangladesh , following weeks of violent student protests against the oppressive policies of Sheikh Hasina , will have far-reaching ramifications in South Asia . Not only did India lose an age-old ally , but the collapse of Hasina 's regime in Bangladesh also opened new opportunities for mending fences with Pakistan . It is the second time in the last 50 years that India has faced a debacle in Dhaka . First in August 1975 when President and Founder of Bangladesh Sheikh Mujibur Rehman was assassinated along with most of his family members by his own military . Indira Gandhi , the then Indian Prime Minister , was shocked to hear about the bloody events in Dhaka and had to restrain taking a military action against those who had killed Mujib . And now after around 50 years , India faced another debacle when Sheikh Hasina , daughter of Mujibur Rehman , was forced to flee Dhaka in an army helicopter to India on August 6 , 2024 when thousands of people were to storm the Prime Minister House . On a call from the Bangladeshi Army Chief , Hasina was given half an hour to either face the situation or leave the country . She decided to flee India and since then the regime change in Bangladesh is a source of major predicament for New Delhi , which is also faced with calls for her extradition . <p> How the world can transform itself in 2025 needs to be analysed from three angles . <p> First is the possibility of a rift within G-7 following assumption of power in the US by Trump . If the US undermines NATO and mends its fences with Russia over Ukraine , the outcome will be rupture in the Atlantic alliance which will invariably benefit Moscow and Beijing . During his election campaign , Trump had claimed that he would end the war in Ukraine within 24 hours of assuming power , but he failed to explain how he would accomplish that objective . During the Biden administration , damage control measures were adopted vis- ? -vis NATO and the US again consolidated its ties with the Atlantic alliance which had suffered a setback under Trump . Populism will surely get an impetus in 2025 because of Trump 's possible drive against immigrants and his anti-Muslim rhetoric . In that case , one can see rise of populism in America and in the West as advocated by the world 's richest person Alan Musk , thus galvanising a polarised culture . <p> Second , if peace , stability and inclusive mode of governance get an impetus in Syria , one can expect a positive change in the Middle East . Even Iran has supported the formation of a stable government in Damascus . The challenge in the Middle East comes in the form of the Israeli policy of continuing with attacks on Gaza and consolidating its position in the occupied Golan Heights - something that shows how in coming weeks the US and Israel will try to mitigate the influence of Iran in the region . Trump 's support which he got from Arab-Americans and Muslim-Americans in the 2024 election depends on pursuing a neutral and anti-war approach in Gaza . But , it may be a wishful thinking to expect Trump to take a pro-peace approach to end the war in Gaza because it will contradict with Israel 's policy to annihilate Hamas . <p> Third , a paradigm shift in the Pakistan-Bangladesh relations , following the ouster of Sheikh Hasina , will have profound implications on the South Asian politics in 2025 . For India to lose a trusted ally in the form of Sheikh Hasina is being perceived as a great loss . Now , in order to further isolate the Modi regime , Bangladesh , Nepal , Pakistan and possibly Sri Lanka will exert pressure over New Delhi to revive the SAARC process . Yet , Bangladesh may not be able to neutralise the Indian influence because of its heavy dependence on New Delhi for economic and geographical reasons and the RAW 's entrenched role in Dhaka . <p> For Pakistan the events of 2024 will have negative implications in 2025 unless efforts are made by the government and the opposition to mend fences and proceed for an inclusive mode of governance so that real issues plaguing the country are at least managed , if not resolved . 
@@119436452 <p> GAZA STRIP : Two people have been killed in northern Gaza as gunmen attacked an aid convoy , the World Food Programme said Monday , prompting Hamas to accuse to UN agency of having failed to coordinate security . <p> Gazans face dire conditions after nearly 15 months of war , triggered by Hamas 's October 7 , 2023 attack on Israel , with humanitarian agencies repeatedly warning not enough aid was reaching Palestinians in need due in part to looting as well as Israeli restrictions . <p> The World Food Programme ( WFP ) said in a statement that " a coordinated movement to bring in 40 trucks on behalf of humanitarian partners " on Sunday " was faced with violent , armed looting , resulting in the deaths of two " . <p> " Amidst the armed looting , five trucks of commodities were lost , " it added . <p> Hamas , the Palestinian group that runs the Gaza Strip , said in a statement that " a catastrophic mistake " by the WFP " claimed the lives of two citizens and injured dozens with bullets " . <p> " We hold it fully responsible and demand that it not violate the protocol followed regarding coordination to secure aid trucks , " the statement said . <p> The WFP said in its statement that for the past two weeks , " nearly every movement of aid through crossings in south and central Gaza has resulted in violence , looting and tragic deaths due to attacks and the absence of law and order along convoy routes inside Gaza . " <p> The organisation said that it was still following " procedures of coordination set in place in previous months " and that it had " repeatedly warned of the dangers of movement in the absence of law and order " in the Palestinian territory . <p> For months , both Israel and aid agencies including the WFP have noted widespread looting by armed gangs , as well as civilians desperate for supplies . <p> Humanitarian agencies also say the delivery routes they take through Gaza are sometimes blocked by Israeli military activity . <p> Aid organisations have repeatedly warned of the deteriorating conditions in Gaza , saying civilians are starving and that aid shipments in recent months have been lower than at any time during the war . 
@@119436463 <p> A displaced Palestinian , Hatem Kullab , living in makeshift tents in blood-stained Gaza , endures unimaginable hardships . He walks nearly eight kilometers to obtain a loaf of bread from overcrowded bakeries , where scarce edibles are sold at skyrocketing prices . His ordeal is not an isolated story -- it mirrors the collective pain and anguish of over two million besieged souls . <p> Every man , woman , and child in Gaza roams the ruined and blood stained streets , desperately searching for a morsel of food or a drop of water to sustain life . Their untold misery and agony defies description . <p> Under relentless assaults by the Zionist death forces , Gaza is besieged and surrounded . Well-fed , heavily armed soldiers and lethal tanks occupy every devastated neighborhood , every street , and every corner . <p> Palestinians are stripped of their dignity , honour , and life itself , forced into an endless cycle of fear , chaos , and despair . In this desolation , they are made to flee from one crumbled shelter to another , struggling for mere survival . Even in their flight , they are tactically cornered and trapped , destined to face death . <p> The so-called evacuation orders issued by the Israeli Defense Forces are not a measure of safety but a calculated trap designed to massacre unarmed civilians . Death looms as an ever-present shadow , claiming hundreds of lives daily and reducing entire families to memories . <p> Apartments , schools , hospitals , and makeshift shelters are reduced to rubble in an instant leaving behind only the haunting silence of lives erased . Palestinians are being perished through bombs , bullets , hunger , thirst , heat , disease , and trauma . <p> This relentless bloodshed , fueled by advanced American weapons and precision technology , unfolds in full view of a largely indifferent world . The apathy of the international community and the Muslim world compounds the tragedy . Since October 7 , 2023 , the Zionists warlords have been waging a merciless war of annihilation . <p> After more than 14 months , the objective of defeating Hamas and releasing hostages remains a distant dream . Hamas 's leadership , fighters , and tunnels have been obliterated . Now , one must ask : who remains to be killed ? What purpose does this unending destruction serve ? How many more innocent children and women must die ? <p> The Zionist forces ' insatiable thirst for leveling Gaza , killing generations , and erasing the future of Palestinian children leaves behind nothing but a trail of devastation . What else do they seek to achieve with their arrogance and firepower ? The Zionist warlords remain weak and defeated in their objectives . <p> Their precision technology and deadly strikes and war victories have failed to break the indomitable spirit , courage , and resilience of the oppressed . <p> In fact , Israeli atrocities , barbarism and inhuman cruelties out to destroy generations and wipe out towns and settlements have only strengthened and furthered the cause of the Hamas ideology . The Gaza may lie in ruins but the just cause and spirit of its brave and fearless sons and daughters survive and lives on . The charisma and cause of Hamas remains triumphant even in ruins of Gaza <p> Defiant and intransigent Israel is now left with no option but to seek peace through diplomacy and negotiation . Force , coercion , and firepower can not browbeat Palestinians into submission . <p> Diplomacy and compromise are the only viable paths to ensure Israel 's safe boundaries and peace for its citizens . History offers valuable lessons : lofty objectives have been achieved through dialogue and understanding . <p> The Camp David Accords , where Sinai was returned to Egypt in exchange for peace guarantees , serve as a testament to the possibility of peaceful resolution . Israel 's peace treaty with Jordan also exemplifies the benefits of give-and-take agreements . <p> Rather than funneling billions of dollars into expanding arsenals and waging wars in Gaza , Lebanon , and Syria , Israel should reprioritize its focus on improving the lives of its citizens , including nearly the two million vulnerable people living below the poverty line . It must realize the bitter truth that war itself is defeat and destruction and that peace , prosperity , and stability are worth far more than destruction and stagnation . <p> The world is bright , the future promising , and the sun shines equally on the oppressor and the oppressed . By abandoning war tactics , invasions , incursions and land grabs , Israel can defeat the war-mongering mindset of the U.S. military-industrial complex , as for them , every war and calamity is a profit-making opportunity . <p> Whether in Ukraine , Gaza , or Iran , every moment of war enriches these profiteers . This cycle must be broken by upholding the banner of peace . <p> It is high time Israel is made to see reason and logic , to end this genocidal horror , and to embrace peace through diplomacy and mutual understanding . The global conscience demands an end to this madness . It is imperative to honor the cries for a free Palestine , respect the 1967 borders , and grant Palestinians their inalienable right to live with dignity , honour , and peace . <p> Only through dialogue and understanding can lasting peace be achieved -- a peace that secures the future for all , including the children of Gaza and Israel alike 
@@119452402 <p> Francesca Albanese , the UN Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in the Palestinian territories , has recently called on medical professionals globally to sever ties with Israel . <p> This appeal is a direct response to what she describes as the " full destruction " of Gaza 's healthcare system amid ongoing military actions by Israel , which she characterizes as part of a broader genocidal strategy against Palestinians . <p> In her statement shared on X ( formerly Twitter ) , Albanese emphasized the urgency of this action : " I urge medical professionals worldwide to pursue the severance of all ties with Israel as a concrete way to forcefully denounce Israel 's full destruction of the Palestinian healthcare system in Gaza , a critical tool of its ongoing genocide " . <p> This statement reflects her ongoing critique of Israel 's military operations , which have severely impacted medical facilities in Gaza and contributed to widespread humanitarian crises . <p> Albanese 's remarks come at a time when the conflict has escalated significantly , leading to devastating effects on Palestinian infrastructure , particularly healthcare . Her position has drawn attention and controversy , as she has previously accused Israel of committing acts that could be classified as genocide against the Palestinian people . <p> In her reports to the UN , she has highlighted systematic violence and displacement affecting Palestinians , framing these actions within a historical context of occupation and ethnic cleansing . <p> At least 30 Palestinians were butchered in Israeli military assaults across Gaza on Sunday , including seven during an attack on al-Wafaa Hospital and nine in an attack on the Nuseirat refugee camp , Al Jazeera reported . <p> Meanwhile , Israeli occupational forces rounded up four Palestinian patients , including one in critical condition , during transferring from the Indonesian Hospital in Beit Lahiya to al-Shifa Hospital in Gaza City . <p> On the other hand , the head of the World Health Organisation Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on Monday called for granting Gazans access to health care . <p> OyeYeah is an entertainment project powered by Alliancez Inc . We 're motivated to digging up fresh , authentic news . Oye Yeah does not work on rumors ! We have all sourced news because we believe in bringing our readers the best . We have a vision and we 're striving hard to achieve it day in , day out ! 
@@119452463 <h> With 23 people dead in a single day , Israeli authorities order a new evacuation of the besieged town in northern Gaza . <h> Palestinian rocket fire from the area has prompted Israeli forces conducting a weeks-long onslaught in northern Gaza to urge any people still in Beit Hanoun to evacuate , according to residents quoted by Reuters . <p> Although it was not immediately apparent how many people were impacted , the inhabitants claimed that the order to evacuate had resulted in a fresh wave of relocation . <p> According to Palestinian health sources , at least 23 individuals were killed yesterday by Israeli military attacks throughout the area . The Palestinian Civil Emergency Service claimed in a statement that one of the attacks at Gaza City 's Al-Wafa Hospital killed seven people and injured others . <p> No location in Gaza is safe , according to Palestinian and UN officials , and evacuations exacerbate the population 's humanitarian situation . <p> There are rumors that Israel plans to maintain the region as a closed buffer zone until the combat in Gaza is over because a large portion of the terrain around the northern cities of Beit Hanoun , Jabalia , and Beit Lahiya has been emptied of residents and destroyed . <p> According to the Palestinian Civil Emergency Service , the raid prevented it from sending teams into the region and caused it to lose contact with those still stranded in the town . <h> PKKH ( Pakistan Ka Khuda Hafiz ) is a respected Pakistani news website offering accurate and comprehensive coverage of politics , culture , and global affairs . With a commitment to objective reporting and insightful analysis , PKKH provides readers with a well-rounded perspective on current events . The platform encourages community engagement and leverages digital technology to reach a wide audience , contributing to informed discussions and awareness . 
@@119452464 <h> Israel targets hospitals in Gaza , killing a baby that freezes to death . <h> GAZA STRIP : As the war-torn Palestinian enclave struggles with winter weather , Gaza health officials said that a 20-day-old infant passed away on Sunday due to " severe cold . " <p> At least seven individuals were murdered in an Israeli airstrike on a hospital that same day . <p> According to a statement from the Gaza health ministry , Jumaa al-Batran , the youngster , passed away from the cold , while his twin brother is still in the intensive care unit at a nearby hospital . <p> The death was confirmed by Marwan al-Hamas , the chief of Gaza 's field hospitals . According to him , it increased the number of kids " who have died due to severe cold " in recent weeks to five . <p> A strike at Al-Wafaa Hospital has killed seven children , while a severe cold has killed five so far . <p> " Electricity is not available . The child 's father , Yahya al-Batran , stated , " There is no gas , heating , or food , and the water is cold . " <p> " No one seems to care that my kids are dying right in front of me . Jumaa passed away , and I worry that his brother Ali would do the same . <p> Attacks on medical facilitiesAccording to a statement from the civil defense organization , seven persons were killed when Israeli forces attacked the upper level of the Al-Wafaa Hospital in central Gaza City . <p> Members of Hamas ' aerial defense unit , which was based out of a " command and control center in a building that served in the past as the Al-Wafaa hospital , " were the target of a " precise strike , " according to Israel 's military . <p> According to the military , " the building does not currently serve as a hospital . " <p> The hospital is still in operation , according to Gaza 's health ministry , which is controlled by Hamas . <p> The military halted a raid on Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza the day before the attack on Al-Wafaa Hospital . Hossam Abu Safiyeh , the hospital 's chief , was also taken into custody by the military on suspicion of being a Hamas militant . <p> According to Gaza health officials on Sunday , Israeli tanks also bombarded the upper floor of the Al-Ahly Arab Baptist Hospital in Gaza City , close to the X-ray division . <p> 30 people have been murdered in the Palestinian territory in the last 24 hours , according to the Gaza health ministry on Sunday , bringing the war 's death toll to 45,514 . <p> New orders for evacuationResidents of northern Gaza 's Beit Hanoun have reported that Israeli forces have issued a new evacuation order . <p> Residents claimed that a new wave of relocation resulted from the order to evacuate , however it was not immediately apparent how many people were impacted . <p> On Saturday , the Israeli military declared its latest offensive into the Beit Hanoun region . <h> PKKH ( Pakistan Ka Khuda Hafiz ) is a respected Pakistani news website offering accurate and comprehensive coverage of politics , culture , and global affairs . With a commitment to objective reporting and insightful analysis , PKKH provides readers with a well-rounded perspective on current events . The platform encourages community engagement and leverages digital technology to reach a wide audience , contributing to informed discussions and awareness . 
@@119472446 <p> IT 'S not difficult to suppose that prisoners also celebrate the New Year , including those on death row . With the advent of the means to annihilate all life on planet Earth , the entire human race has been put on death row . It seems we are all on death row , like inmates living on borrowed time , and without being given a fair trial . <p> I have been riveted to daily discussions involving well-informed ex-CIA analysts , senior military personnel who retired after serving US interventions across the world and highly respected American academics . <p> These discussants keep an equal distance from Joe Biden and Donald Trump , analysing 2024 , and looking forward to the post-Jan 20 , 2025 , world . <p> Their discussions on the global tensions point to the death sentence many in the world dread but which most are not even aware of , and a large number are not interested in knowing about . It 's fraught and could be carried out any time . The West , in their view , is in an economic and political mess and itching for a fight with Russia , China and their allies . <p> What happens when the bomb explodes ? If you 're in the vicinity , you 'll not live to know . <p> The West 's growing team of opponents , on the other hand , have an economic agenda that questions the hegemony of the greenback . The American discussants see the Ukraine war as an outcome of US provocations , the threat to take Nato to Russia 's borders . A slight misjudgement or even an eerily suicidal resolve could trigger a nuclear apocalypse . Gaza is the other trigger as Israel seeks to move on from the massacres to the virgin Syrian turf . <p> It has prompted Iran and Saudi Arabia to go into a huddle . A behind-the-scenes factor overrides these and similar possibilities . Indications are that a vicious conflict is likelier to break out to thwart the rise of BRICS . The ruse would come from Ukraine , Gaza , Iran , Syria , and Israel , principally . <p> China , with a significant interest in a peaceful world in which it could ply the Belt and Road trade , is seen as the least likely to want war . But it would respond to provocations with full force of its astounding military capabilities if it came to that . That 's what leading American analysts believe . <p> Israel , particularly Netanyahu 's Israel , has emerged as having a devious interest in triggering a catastrophe , and it cares little if it sets off a nuclear disaster . <p> It is pining to attack Iran , underplaying the imminent response with Iran 's conventional capabilities that could destroy the Zionist state . Israel is known to have the US carte blanche to do as it pleases . <p> In which case , Vladimir Putin is not likely to merely look on . Russia 's newly minted nuclear-capable hypersonic Oreshnik missile is supposed to have the speed and force to destroy most of Europe with chilling ease . <p> Nato retribution would be equally swift and devastating , which would leave a few pleased individuals in the nuclear bunkers in Washington , D.C. The neocons , according to the analysts , had shaped the Biden administration 's rapacious support for the massacres in Ukraine and the Middle East . They look primed to have the ear of Donald Trump . <p> Scott Ritter , respected former military damage assessor , has been canvassing support against nuclear adventurism by the US . He met Congressmen and wondered if they saw Russia 's new threat with the Oreshnik missile as a bluff . The Congressmen told him the CIA assessed it as not a bluff , but the mainstream media masked it with half-truths . Joe Biden , principally the neocon cabal around him , was ready for nuclear war with Russia . <p> The Congressmen were alarmed that Biden would consider such a step without consulting them . Everything is up in the air . Small mercies that nuclear-armed India and Pakistan do not figure high in the list of the terrifying prospects . <p> With Narendra Modi in the saddle though it 's difficult to predict what he would not do to remain in power . North Korea expectedly is in the heart of the bleak scenario . <p> To the discussants , it seemed the annihilation was set for 2024 . The idea was to provoke Putin before Trump took over . But we survived it . Or have we ? <p> The fear spurred me to reach for Annie Jacobsen 's chilling and acclaimed new book tersely called Nuclear War : a Scenario . It probes the prospects of nuclear exchange and the prohibitive consequences it entails for human beings . <p> In her scenario , the disarray at the hub of decision-making was telling , with literally six minutes for the US president to respond to an assumed North Korean nuclear missile heading towards the US homeland . <p> Based on interviews with former dramatis personae that handled Doomsday triggers , Jacobsen 's inputs came from " presidential advisers , cabinet ministers , nuclear weapons engineers , scientists , soldiers , airmen , special operators , Secret Service , emergency management experts , intelligence analysts , civil servants , and others who have worked in these scenarios over decades " . <p> What happens when the bomb explodes ? If you 're in the vicinity , you 'll not live to know . The likely chance is you would vaporise in a fraction of a second . <p> " A 1-megaton thermonuclear weapon detonation begins with a flash of light and heat so tremendous it is impossible for the human mind to comprehend , " says Jacobsen . <p> " One hundred and eighty million degrees Fahrenheit is four or five times hotter than the temperature that occurs at the centre of the Earth 's sun . " In the first millisecond after the bomb strikes the Pentagon , according to the author 's scenario , there is light . <p> The light superheats the surrounding air to millions of degrees , creating a massive firestorm that expands at millions of miles per hour . Assuming the North Korean missile hits the Pentagon , " everything inside its 6.5 million square feet of office space explodes into superheated dust from the initial flash of light and heat , all the walls shattering with the near-simultaneous arrival of the shockwave , all 27,000 employees perishing instantly . " It 's immaterial if we 're in prison or out . We 're all on death row . 
@@119472516 <p> In 2024 , Pakistan 's security forces and law enforcement agencies conducted an impressive 59,775 counter-terrorism operations across the country , resulting in the death of 925 terrorists , Express News reported on Tuesday . <p> The operations , which were primarily intelligence-based , marked a significant achievement in the fight against terrorism . <p> The authorities also apprehended hundreds of individuals , further dismantling terrorist networks and their support systems . <p> The operations were part of a coordinated effort to tackle the growing security challenges , especially in regions where extremist elements have been active . A large portion of these successful missions targeted terrorist hideouts , training camps , and key facilitators . <p> The year saw a strong focus on high-value targets , with 73 of the killed terrorists classified as being among the most wanted . These included notorious figures such as Fida Rahman ( known as Lala ) , Ali Rahman , and Abu Yahya . <p> Notably , the year also witnessed the capture of two suicide bombers , an operation that likely saved countless lives . <p> These captures , along with the neutralisation of several terrorists , were part of daily operations , with the country 's security apparatus maintaining a relentless pace of 169 operations per day . <p> The effectiveness of these operations can also be credited to improved coordination between the Pakistani military , intelligence agencies , police , and other law enforcement agencies . <p> The leadership of Pakistan 's armed forces , particularly Army Chief General Asim Munir , has been vocal about the ongoing threat of terrorism emanating from neighbouring Afghanistan . <p> General Munir reaffirmed Pakistan 's commitment to eliminating terrorist activities regardless of their origin , stressing that the protection of Pakistani citizens remains paramount . <p> Furthermore , Pakistan 's strategic policies have not only targeted extremist elements but have also focused on curbing illegal activities that support terrorism . <p> Over the year , Pakistan successfully conducted operations against smuggling rings , electricity theft , extortion gangs , and hoarding operations , leading to a noticeable reduction in such crimes . <p> The state 's clear stance on terrorism and criminal activities has contributed to reducing the operational capacity of terrorist groups and criminal organisations . <p> The successes achieved in 2024 are seen as a step forward in Pakistan 's broader strategy to combat both internal and external security threats . <p> In addition to counter-terrorism operations , Pakistan 's military diplomacy yielded positive results , as the country strengthened its relations with key international partners . <p> High-level engagements , such as the hosting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation ( SCO ) conference , showcased Pakistan 's rising influence in the international arena . <p> Relations with countries like China , Russia , Iran , and others have been bolstered , and the country has emerged as a stronger voice for the people of Gaza , Lebanon , and Kashmir . 
@@119472519 <h> Houthis vow to defend after US strikes in Yemen <p> The Houthis have recently intensified operations against Saudi Arabia as they attempt to seize the Yemeni government 's last northern stronghold of Marib . PHOTO : AFP <p> Yemen 's Houthi spokesperson Mohammed Abdulsalam said that the country would continue to defend itself after several US strikes targeted facilities in the capital Sanaa on Tuesday . <p> The US military said that it carried out strikes against Houthi targets in Sanaa and coastal locations in Yemen on Monday and Tuesday . <p> " On Dec. 30 and 31 , US Navy ships and aircraft targeted a Houthi command and control facility and advanced conventional weapon ( ACW ) production and storage facilities that included missiles and uncrewed aerial vehicles ( UAV ) , " the US military 's Central Command said in a post on X. <p> The attacks began Monday and were carried out by US Navy ships and aircraft that also struck Huthi-controlled coastal regions of Yemen , the US Central Command ( CENTCOM ) said . <p> It also said US Navy and Air Force aircraft had destroyed " seven cruise missiles and one-way attack UAVs over the Red Sea , " using an acronym for unmanned aerial drones . <p> " There were no injuries or damage to US personnel or equipment in either incident , " it said . <p> One witness in Yemen 's Huthi-controlled capital Sanaa reported several strikes in different locations . <p> Another reported raids on Sanaa on the Defense Ministry and having heard a powerful explosion . <p> Huthi spokesperson Mohammed Abdulsalam called the strikes " an American aggression " and " a blatant violation of the sovereignty of an independent state and a blatant support for Israel . " <p> The rebels said earlier Tuesday that they had fired two missiles at Israel , hours after the Israeli military said it had intercepted a projectile launched from the country . <p> Houthi in Yemen has been attacking commercial shipping in the Red Sea for more than a year to try to enforce a naval blockade on Israel , saying they are acting in solidarity with Palestinians in Israel 's year-long war in Gaza . <p> The Huthis control much of war-torn Yemen and have been firing missiles and drones at Israel , and at ships in the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden , in what they say is solidarity with Palestinians during the Israel-Hamas war in the Gaza Strip . 
@@119472574 <p> GENEVA : A United Nations report published Tuesday found that Israeli strikes on and near hospitals in the Gaza Strip had left healthcare in the Palestinian territory on the verge of collapse . <p> The report by the UN human rights office said such strikes raised grave concerns about Israel 's compliance with international law . <p> " Israel 's pattern of deadly attacks on and near hospitals in Gaza , and associated combat , pushed the healthcare system to the brink of total collapse , with catastrophic effect on Palestinians ' access to health and medical care , " the UN human rights office said in a statement . <p> Its 23-page report , entitled " Attacks on hospitals during the escalation of hostilities in Gaza " , looked at the period from October 7 , 2023 to June 30 , 2024 . <p> It said that during this time , there were at least 136 strikes on 27 hospitals and 12 other medical facilities , claiming significant casualties among doctors , nurses , medics and other civilians and causing significant damage to , if not the complete destruction of , civilian infrastructure . <p> The report noted that medical personnel and hospitals are specifically protected under international humanitarian law , provided they do not commit , or are not used to commit , acts harmful to the enemy outside their humanitarian function . <p> It found that Israel 's repeated claims that Gaza hospitals were being improperly used for military purposes by Palestinian groups " vague " . <p> " Insufficient information has so far been made publicly available to substantiate these allegations , which have remained vague and broad , and in some cases appear contradicted by publicly available information , " the report said . <p> " The protection of hospitals during warfare is paramount and must be respected by all sides , at all times . " <p> Call for investigations <p> Israel 's retaliatory military campaign has killed more than 45,500 people in Gaza , a majority of them civilians , according to figures from the territory 's health ministry that the UN considers reliable . <p> The report concluded with a call for credible investigations into the incidents detailed , and said they had to be independent given the " limitations " of Israel 's justice system in respect of the conduct of its armed forces . <p> " It is essential that there be independent , thorough and transparent investigations of all of these incidents , and full accountability for all violations of international humanitarian and human rights law which have taken place , " said Turk . <p> " It must also be a priority for Israel , as the occupying power , to ensure and facilitate access to adequate healthcare for the Palestinian population , and for future recovery and reconstruction efforts to prioritise the restoration of the medical capacity which has been destroyed over the last 14 months of intense conflict . " 
@@119472646 <p> Yemen 's Houthi spokesperson Mohammed Abdulsalam said that the country would continue to defend itself after several US strikes targeted facilities in the capital Sanaa on Tuesday . <p> The US military said that it carried out strikes against Houthi targets in Sanaa and coastal locations in Yemen on Monday and Tuesday . <p> " On Dec. 30 and 31 , US Navy ships and aircraft targeted a Houthi command and control facility and advanced conventional weapon ( ACW ) production and storage facilities that included missiles and uncrewed aerial vehicles ( UAV ) , " the US military 's Central Command said in a post on X. <p> Houthi in Yemen has been attacking commercial shipping in the Red Sea for more than a year to try to enforce a naval blockade on Israel , saying they are acting in solidarity with Palestinians in Israel 's year-long war in Gaza . 
@@119472656 <p> " Bibi files ... " " Yes they detail Netanyahu 's corruption ranging from accepting very expensive gifts and ... " " But the gifts were liquid gifts right so .... so not the same . " <p> " Right and the files show a linkage between the court case and Israel 's escalating wars within the region and beyond . " <p> " If you are hinting that the cypher case ... " <p> " Hey I am not talking domestic , I am talking Israel , anyway Netanyahu 's objective perhaps was to divert Israeli voting base attention away from his corruption trial to considerations of national security though I reckon his wars are compromising Israeli national security as the inhumanity associated with Israeli attacks is leading to higher levels of recruitment for Hamas , Hezbollah , Houthis and world condemnation , other than from administrations in the US and some in Europe . " <p> " Hamm , is that anything we can relate to , perhaps ? " <p> " Not my concern today and last but not the least Netanyahu banned the Bibi files from airing in Israel . " <p> " Ahhhhh . " <p> " Precisely and you know what is happening there do n't you ? " <p> " VPN is enabling many an Israeli to watch the film and ... and ... yes , social media is another source which is being used by others to watch segments of the film . " <p> " We have an issue with foreign exchange reserves , we still have only two and half months of reserves so can we sell what we are doing here to deal with the same issue ? " <p> " Well I do n't think a slow-down of internet would be acceptable to the Israelis and I do n't think this policy is going to last long -- Bilawal Bhutto Zardari is already referring to the internet slow down and X ban in derogatory terms -- saying that the old do not know the value of internet and ... " <p> " So what is the way forward for Netanyahu ? " <p> " I guess to expand the war . " <p> " To where ? Israel is bombing Gaza still , killing from 10 to 25 people each day , with more and more dying due to no food , West Bank is also under Israeli settler attacks and one hopes that the PLO has learnt a valuable lesson -- that unity is essential in the face of Israel , then there are daily violations of the peace deal with Hezbollah , launching air attacks on Houthis , ongoing land grab in Syria ... " <p> " Iran my friend Iran and for that to be successful Netanyahu needs the US , so I am not sure if he will launch an attack before Trump what with a weak Biden run by a team supportive of Israel whatever Israel does or wait for Trump who is mercurial and ... " <p> " Hamm , and his daughter Ivanka , who married a Jewish guy and converted , is no longer in the picture for his second term .... " <p> " That can change , if Ivanka does a Notification Maryam Nawaz ( NMN ) ... " <p> " I heard the much retired Captain is in Raiwind having daily conversations with ... " <p> " With the cook on what to prepare three times a day , and I am not sure if that makes him a House Husband or House Son in Law ? " 
@@119472667 <h> Gaza population declines by 6% amid Israel 's genocidal war <p> Gaza 's population has declined by 6% as a result of Israel 's genocidal war , official figures showed on Tuesday . <p> Ola Awad , head of the Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics ( PCBS ) , said the territory 's population drpped to 2.1 million , down by 160,000 people since 2023 . <p> Awad said nearly 45,500 people have been killed in Israeli attacks and 100,000 others fled the enclave since Oct. 7 , 2023 . <p> She said the victims included 17,581 children and 12,048 women , while nearly 107,000 have been injured and around 11,000 others missing . <p> The PCBS estimated the Palestinian population at around 15 million , including 5.5 living in Gaza and the West Bank , 1.8 million inside Israel and the rest in diaspora worldwide . <p> The Israeli army has continued a genocidal war on Gaza since a Hamas attack on Oct. 7 , 2023 despite a UN Security Council resolution calling for an immediate cease-fire . <p> In November , the International Criminal Court issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant for war crimes and crimes against humanity in Gaza . 
@@119472893 <p> Pakistan Army rendered unparalleled services for the country this year under the leadership of Army Chief General Syed Asim Munir . <p> Significant successes were achieved during operations against Khawarij and terrorists due to a clear policy . <p> According to details , security forces and law enforcement agencies conducted a total of 59,775 successful intelligence-based operations against terrorists and their facilitators this year . Nine hundred and Twenty-Five terrorists , including Khawarij were killed while hundreds were arrested during these operations . Among them , seventy-three most wanted terrorists were also killed . <p> Due to the successful strategy of the security forces , two suicide bombers were apprehended , preventing a major disaster in the country . Fourteen wanted terrorists laid down their arms and joined the national mainstream . <p> Over one hundred and sixty-nine operations are being carried out daily by the armed forces , police , intelligence and other law enforcement agencies . <p> The Army Chief has a clear and firm stance against terrorists , Khawarij and their facilitators . <p> He has voiced concerns over the use of Afghan soil for terrorist activities inside Pakistan , emphasizing that the life and safety of a Pakistani are more important to us than Afghanistan . <p> This year an international journal also praised the Army Chief for being a strong voice against terrorists and extremists . <p> In line with the clear state policy , strict actions were also taken against smuggling , electricity theft , extortion , and hoarders . As a result , a significant reduction was observed in these illegal activities . <p> Pakistan also achieved significant milestones due to the Army Chief 's successful military diplomacy which led to improved relations with important countries and an increase in foreign investment . <p> For the oppressed people of Gaza , Lebanon , and Kashmir , Pakistan emerged as a powerful voice in the international community . <p> With its support , trade relations with several countries were strengthened . <p> The measures taken under SFIC have opened up clear possibilities for improvement in the economy . <p> With the support of SFIC , remittances increased , inflation decreased and the stock exchange reached its highest level in history . There was a clear reduction in the interest rate , and the narrative of those predicting default was negated . <p> National Logistics Cell ( NLC ) achieved significant milestones in promoting trade activities in the region and increasing trade with important countries . <p> NLC not only paved the way for enhancing trade with Central Asian states but also with Russia , Eastern Europe , China , and the UAE . <p> The Army Chief has a clear stance that freedom of expression without rules and regulations is leading to the decline of moral values in all societies . <p> This year legislation was also enacted to prevent the spread of misleading propaganda , fake news , and false information . 
@@119486552 <h> " Everything is soaked " : The cold exacerbates the agony of Palestinians who have been uprooted by Israel 's Gaza offensive . <h> Strong winds and rain have blown away or flooded scores of tents in Gaza 's Deir al-Balah city , many of which are already damaged from months of use . Families are finding it difficult to repair the damage , repairing shredded plastic sheets and building up sand to keep the water from flooding , according to Reuters . <p> They were sopping wet down to their panties while they slept . I promise . The underwear and pants were completely drenched . The woman continued , " Everything is soaked , including the pillows and blankets . " <p> Due to the chilly weather and the absence of bulky clothing and blankets , Abu Shanab , who has asthma , has not felt better for a month despite taking medication . <p> The weather in the second winter of Israel 's campaign in Gaza has made the hundreds of thousands of people who have already been displaced -- often repeatedly -- even more miserable , and attempts to reach a truce have failed . <h> PKKH ( Pakistan Ka Khuda Hafiz ) is a respected Pakistani news website offering accurate and comprehensive coverage of politics , culture , and global affairs . With a commitment to objective reporting and insightful analysis , PKKH provides readers with a well-rounded perspective on current events . The platform encourages community engagement and leverages digital technology to reach a wide audience , contributing to informed discussions and awareness . 
