@@118321173 <p> The United States , like all nations , was created through territorial conquest . Most of its current territory was occupied or frequented by human beings before the US came ; the US used force to either displace , subjugate , or kill all of those people . To the extent that land " ownership " existed under the previous inhabitants , the land of the US is stolen land . <p> This was also true before the US arrived . The forcible theft of the land upon which the US now exists was not the first such theft ; the people who lived there before conquered , displaced , or killed someone else in order to take the land . <p> The land has been stolen and re-stolen again and again . If you somehow destroyed the United States , expelled its current inhabitants , and gave ownership of the land to the last recorded tribe that had occupied it before , you would not be returning it to its original occupants ; you would simply be handing it to the next-most-recent conquerors . <p> If you go back far enough in time , of course , at some point this is no longer true . Humanity did n't always exist ; therefore for every piece of land , there was a first human to lay eyes on it and a first human to say " This land is mine . " <p> But by what right did this first human claim exclusive ownership of this land ? Why does being the first person to see a natural object make you the rightful owner of that object ? And why does being the first human to set foot on a piece of land give your blood descendants the right to dispose of that land as they see fit in perpetuity , and to exclude any and all others from that land ? What about all the peoples of the world who were never lucky enough the first to lay eyes on any plot of dirt ? Are they simply to be dispossessed forever ? <p> I have never seen a satisfactory answer to these questions . Nor have I seen a satisfactory explanation of why ownership of land should be allocated collectively , in terms of racial or ethnic groups . In general , the first people who arrived on a piece of land did so in dribs and drabs , in small family units and tiny micro-tribes that met and married and fought and mixed and formed into larger identities and ethnicities and tribes over long periods of time . <p> In most cases , the ethnic groups who now claim pieces of land as their own did not even exist when the first humans discovered or settled that land . <p> But even in those cases when it did exist , why should land ownership be assigned to a race at all ? Why should my notional blood relation to the discoverers or the conquerors of a piece of land determine whether I can truly belong on that land ? Why should a section of the map be the land of the Franks , or the Russkiy , or the Cherokee , or the Han , or the Ramaytush Ohlone , or the Britons ? <p> Of course , you can assign land ownership this way -- it 's called an " ethnostate . " But if you do this , it means that the descendants of immigrants can never truly be full and equal citizens of the land they were born in . If Britain is defined as the land of the Britons , then a Han person whose **30;511;TOOLONG moved there from China will exist as a contingent citizen -- a perpetual foreigner whose continued life in the land of their birth exists only upon the sufferance of a different race . This is the price of ethnonationalism . <p> The downsides of ethnonationalism have been exhaustively laid out in the decades since World War 2 , and I 'm not going to reiterate them all now . Suffice it to say that most nations of the world have moved away from ethnonationalism -- there is an informal sense in which some people still think of France as the land of the Franks and so on , but almost all nations define citizenship and belonging through institutions rather than race . Israel , one of the few exceptions to this rule , receives a large amount of international criticism for defining itself as an ethnostate . <p> And yet these days I am subjected to a constant stream of ethnonationalist claims from progressives in the country of my birth . Here 's one from the ACLU of Nebraska : <p> This is n't just something you see on social media around Thanksgiving . " Land acknowledgments " have become ubiquitous in progressive spaces and institutions -- just the other day I saw one at my friend 's community dance recital . <h> Latest stories <p> These land acknowledgments are , legally speaking , incorrect -- there is no legal sense in which the land on which they are being performed belongs to a Native American tribe . These are moral claims about rightful land ownership . But the moral principle to which they appeal is ethnonationalism -- it 's the idea that plots of land are the rightful property of ethnic groups . <p> There is an obvious moral appeal to these land acknowledgments . They are a way of decrying the brutal , cruel , violent history of conquest and colonization . And they probably feel like a way of standing up for the weak , the marginalized , and the dispossessed . <p> Yet what should we think of the morality of following the principles behind land acknowledgments to their logical conclusion ? " Decolonization " of the land of the U.S. would likely be an act of ethnic cleansing surpassing even the previous conquests -- there are 330 million people here now , and almost none of them descend from Native Americans . <p> An attempt to dispossess 330 million people would inevitably involve violence on a colossal scale . Here was Najma Sharif Alawi 's famous tweet right after the October 7th Hamas attacks on Israel : <p> Of course , " colonizers " could presumably avoid violent death or second-class citizenhood by voluntarily deporting themselves . But where would they go ? <p> Take me , for example . My ancestors were Lithuanian Jews . I could leave the country of my birth and go " back " to Lithuania -- a land I do n't know , whose language I do n't speak . Yet my ancestors were not " indigenous " to Lithuania either ; they moved there from somewhere else . What if the ethnic Lithuanians chose not to accept me ? Where would I go then ? Israel ? But the folks who do land acknowledgments would consider me a " colonizer " there as well.1 <p> Would I then wander the Earth , desperately seeking some ethnostate that would allow me and my descendants to live there as a permanently precarious resident aliens ? <p> Once the logic of land acknowledgments and " decolonization " is followed , it leads very quickly to some very dark futures . Assigning each person a homeland based on their ethnic ancestry and then declaring that that homeland is the only place they or their descendants can ever truly belong , would not be an act of justice ; it would be a global nightmare made real , surpassing even the horrors of previous centuries . <p> And in practice , any attempt to create such a world would inevitably lead to violent resistance by the groups in danger of being " decolonized . " The orderly world of nation-states would dissolve into a chaotic free-for-all of competing irredentist claims , backed by genocides and expulsions . Ten thousand October 7th-style attacks would be followed by ten thousand Gaza-style wars . <p> I do not want that , and you should not want it either . The American people certainly do n't want it , and the insistence of progressives on intoning land acknowledgments has probably tanked the movement 's cachet in wider society . I agree with Wayne Burkett when he says that land acknowledgments have probably hurt the Democratic party : <p> Americans do not want to see their country destroyed in the name of irredentist ethnonationalism . Nor do I blame them . <p> So does this mean we should paper over , ignore , or deliberately forget America 's history of violent conquest ? Absolutely not . That history ought to be remembered , so that we do n't repeat it in the present day . <p> The world 's evolution from one based on ethnic cleansing and territorial conquest to one based on fixed borders and institutions is something to celebrate -- and something we must fight to preserve . We need to remember what the world used to be like , precisely so we can avoid backsliding . The most recent of conquests , expulsions , and genocides should be the last to ever happen . <p> And what of the Native Americans who still live in America today ? Must they simply be regarded as the unlucky losers of history , and told to either assimilate into broader American society or shut up ? <p> Absolutely not . For one thing , tribal organizations still exist -- they may notionally represent ethnic groups , but they are institutions . And they are institutions with which the United States has many agreements and legal obligations that must be honored , which often give the tribes sovereignty over areas of land . Neil Gorsuch has been especially active in pushing the Supreme Court to uphold tribal rights , and I think this is a good thing . <p> But respect for Native American tribal organizations does n't have to stop at ancient obligations . There are ways to incorporate those tribes into the modern American nation that both respects them and their history and helps them prosper in the present . <p> Vancouver , Canada shows us an example of how this can be done . Part of Vancouver 's downtown urban area is officially under the governance of the Squamish Nation , rather than the city itself . The Squamish Nation , realizing they could do whatever they wanted with that land , decided to build a giant high-rise housing development : <p> Over the next few years , that skyline will get a very large new addition : Sen ? ? ? w , an 11-tower development that will put 6,000 apartments onto just over 10 acres of land in the heart of the city . Once complete , this will be the densest neighbourhood in Canada , providing thousands of homes for Vancouverites who have long been squeezed between the country 's priciest real estate and some of its lowest vacancy rates . <p> Sen ? ? ? w is big , ambitious and undeniably urban -- and undeniably Indigenous . It 's being built on reserve land owned by the Squamish First Nation , and it 's spearheaded by the Squamish Nation itself , in partnership with the private real estate developer Westbank . Because the project is on First Nations land , not city land , it 's under Squamish authority , free of Vancouver 's zoning rules . And the Nation has chosen to build bigger , denser and taller than any development on city property would be allowed . <p> An even bigger development called Jericho Lands is now being planned , by a consortium of tribal organizations , on land officially owned by Vancouver . <p> Hilariously , Vancouver 's NIMBYs are complaining , claiming that the developments are not in keeping with Indigenous tradition . But Canada 's First Nations seem to have little interest in hewing closely to other people 's view of what their traditions are . Modern people do not want to live like premodern farmers . They are not mystical Tolkien elves . They would like to have shiny new apartment buildings and walkable neighborhoods . <p> This , I believe , is the key to respecting and honoring Native Americans -- not to focus on the tragedies of their past , but to give them the right to build a better future . Tribal lands should definitely have the autonomy to do whatever they want with their lands , including building housing or industry . In fact , we 're starting to see a pattern emerge where Native Americans embrace laissez-faire policies toward industry and manage to poach business from their over-regulated neighbors : <p> Tesla is ramping up efforts to open showrooms on tribal lands where it can sell directly to consumers , circumventing laws in states that bar vehicle manufacturers from also being retailers in favor of the dealership model ... <p> Mohegan Sun , a casino and entertainment complex in Connecticut owned by the federally recognized Mohegan Tribe , announced this week that the California-based electric automaker will open a showroom with a sales and delivery center this fall on its sovereign property where the state 's law does n't apply ... The news comes after another new Tesla showroom was announced in June , set to open in 2025 on lands of the Oneida Indian Nation in upstate New York . <p> This sort of thing could lead to a win-win for the US and Native American tribes . American reindustrialization is being held back by a thicket of procedural requirements and local land-use regulations ; if tribes were able to use their special legal status to circumvent those barriers , it could end up benefitting everyone.2 The tribes would get both jobs and the ability to tax local industry ; America would get to execute an end run around the NIMBYs that are holding it back . <p> In fact , it 's probably possible for various American cities to turn over parts of their land to tribal jurisdiction , with the assistance of the federal government . This would probably result in dense urban developments like the ones being planned in Vancouver . <p> But even if it did n't , it could have other commercial benefits -- again , a win-win for the US and for the tribes . That would certainly be a lot more substantive than a bunch of land acknowledgments . And it would likely satisfy many people 's desire for " giving land back " to Native Americans , without embracing dubious moral principles of ethnic land rights and irredentism . <h> Sign up for one of our free newsletters <p> The Daily ReportStart your day right with Asia Times ' top stories <p> AT Weekly ReportA weekly roundup of Asia Times ' most-read stories <p> In other words , you 're not living on Indigenous land right now , but you could be in the future -- and it might be pretty great . <p> The general principle here is that instead of a dark world of ethnic cleansing in the name of " decolonization " , we should try to build a bright future where Native Americans and the United States of America exist in harmony and cooperation rather than in conflict . And that principle does n't just apply to America , but to the whole world . <p> The history of land ownership is a violent and terrible one , but that does n't mean the future has to be more of the same . <p> Notes : <p> 1 It is a bitter irony that many of the same people who morally condemn Israel for setting itself up as an ethnostate also justify its destruction using ethnonationalist principles . Personally , I tend to agree with the criticism of Israel 's ethnocentrism , but I do n't think replacing this with Palestinian ethnocentrism would make things better . <p> 2 There 's a lot of historical precedent for this . For example , in the 1960s , Fairchild Semiconductor opened a factory on Navajo land in New Mexico , which was quite beneficial to the economy until an industry downturn and a labor dispute led to its demise in the late 70s . <p> This article was first published on Noah Smith 's Noahpinion Substack and is republished with kind permission . Become a Noahopinion subscriber here . <h> Join the Conversation <p> Spoken like a true coloniser . I would like my progeny to witness the colonisation &amp; decimation of White imperial order &amp; such neo-colonial people the same way they have done world over . Damn , it would be poetic justice . <p> Thanks for this , Smith . Most of what you write has been obvious to me for decades , which is why I eschew the term " indigenous , " as though it were a sacrosanct deed to forever . A few quibbles : <p> 1 . are no " Native Americans " in the popular sense . As you do , the Mohegans were not " Americans " ; they were Mohicans. 2 . Disappointing but unsurprising , you 'd want to make a point of pleading " not guilty " to supporting Zionism , the world 's only Jewish state , amid 57 Muslim states , all of whom you somehow missed , the rest either Christian , Buddhist , Hindu , or secular/communist. 3 . There is no " Palestinian " ethnicity per se , aside from a contrivance generated by xenophobic , barbaric and intolerant anti-Zionism . <p> Moreover , the European Westphalian system has been failing for hundreds of years , yet nobody in the thinktanks is picking up on it . Westphalian system is about " nation-states " , the theory goes , nation-states can prevent conflicts since polities can be contained within them . How did that go ? Europe provoked three world wars since the Westphalian system . They exported this terrible system to the world , resulting in Sykes-Picot and African civil wars still raging . All because European settlers paid no attention to geography and culture . The Westphalian system has failed . Civilizations get hijacked by states . States cause conflict , not civilizations . States tend to be artificial constructs . Much of the strife around the world today is because of legacy British and French imperialism and their fake borders drawn up on cognac and whiskey . <p> The West is wealthy today in big part because they plundered much of that wealth in the past from colonial conquest and are still plundering the rest of the globe through blackmail , fraud , coercion and US-UK financial chicenary . That wealth was stolen and continues to be stolen via the IMF , World Bank and the private banking cartel that owns the US Federal Reserve . The British quite simply enjoyed lying , thieving and killing more than anybody else . The Israelis and Americans today continue that good old Western tradition . The West was built with by killing and stealing . China on the other hand , bloodlessly rose to become the world 's largest economy within barely 2 decades . I think white man has much to learn from the Chinese way . 
@@118443613 <h> ' World on fire ' : UN seeks $47 bn for aid in 2025 <p> This representational image shows a UN Security Council meeting in session at UN headquarters in New York City , US on December 3 , 2024. -- AFP <p> The UN appealed Wednesday for more than $47 billion to deliver vital aid next year , warning surging conflicts and the climate crisis will leave hundreds of millions of people in need . <p> " The world is on fire , " the United Nations ' new humanitarian chief Tom Fletcher told reporters in Geneva , acknowledging he was looking ahead to 2025 with " dread " . <p> With brutal conflicts spiralling in places like Gaza , Sudan and Ukraine , and as climate change and extreme weather take an ever-heavier toll , the UN estimated that 305 million people globally will need some form of emergency assistance next year . <p> " We are dealing with a poly-crisis right now globally , and it is the most vulnerable people in the world who are paying the price , " Fletcher said , warning that swelling inequality combined with the convergence of conflict and climate change had created a " perfect storm " of needs . <p> Launching the Global Humanitarian Overview , Fletcher acknowledged that the UN and its partners would not be able to reach all of those in need . <p> The annual appeal by UN agencies and other humanitarian organisations is seeking $47.4 billion for 2025 -- slightly less than the appeal for this year -- which it said was enough to provide assistance to the 189.5 million most vulnerable people . <p> " There 's 115 million that we wo n't be able to reach " with this plan , Fletcher acknowledged . <p> - ' Ruthless ' - <p> Pointing to significant " donor fatigue " hitting humanitarian operations around the world , he stressed the need to lay out a " realistic " plan , which will require prioritisation and making " really tough , tough choices " . <p> " We 've got to be absolutely focused on reaching those in the most dire need , and really ruthless , " he said . <p> As of last month , only 43 percent of the $50-billion appeal for this year had been met . <p> Underfunding has this year seen an 80-percent reduction in food assistance in Syria , cuts to protection services in Myanmar , and diminished water and sanitation aid in cholera-prone Yemen , the UN said . <p> The single biggest barriers for assisting and protecting people in armed conflict , though , were the widespread violations of international law . <p> 2024 has already been the deadliest year for humanitarian workers , surpassing last year 's toll of 280 killed . <p> Fears meanwhile abound that Donald Trump 's looming return to the presidency in the United States -- the world 's biggest humanitarian donor -- could see aid agency budgets cut rather than raised next year . <p> Fletcher said he planned to " spend a lot of time in Washington " in coming months to engage with the new administration . <p> - ' Unconscionable ' - <p> The " much tougher global climate ( was ) not just about America " , he said , adding he planned " to bash down doors " around the world and make the argument about the need to step up . <p> A record 123 million people were living displaced from their homes due to conflict by mid-2024 , while one out of every five children globally is currently living in or fleeing conflict zones , according to UN figures . <p> " The suffering behind the numbers is all the more unconscionable for being man-made , " Fletcher said . <p> " Wars in Gaza , Sudan and Ukraine are marked by the ferocity and intensity of the killing , the complete disregard for international law , and the deliberate obstruction of our humanitarian movement 's effort to save lives . " <p> Numerous old crises meanwhile remain unresolved and simmering , with average humanitarian operations now spanning a decade , the UN said . <p> " The longer they last , the bleaker the prospects , " Fletcher warned , pointing out that " life expectancy drops , vaccination rates plummet , education suffers , maternal mortality skyrockets , and the spectre of famine grows " . <p> Even more worryingly , he said , was how conflicts were increasingly converging with the climate-induced disasters that are ravaging communities , devastating food systems and driving mass displacement . <p> " The dread I have is that those two huge drivers of need are now combining , " he said . 
@@118443645 <p> The forgotten Syrian civil war has again flared up with the spectacular capture of Aleppo by opposition forces . A complex set of circumstances created the right time for rebels to strike , plunging Syria into an uncertain future and catching President Bashar al-Assad by surprise . <p> The Syrian civil war has been largely forgotten in a new world defined by the Covid pandemic , the Russian invasion of Ukraine and the Gaza conflict . Now it is firmly back in the international spotlight . <h> Status quo before the attack on Aleppo <p> Let 's remember what was happening in Syria before the recent insurgency . <p> Russia and Iran had backed the Assad government , and its forces were in firm control of Syria 's largest cities , Aleppo ( the industrial hub and Syria 's second-largest city , with a population of 2 million ) , Damascus , Homs and Latakia , among others . <p> After the fall of Islamic State ( IS ) in 2019 , IS remnants and just about all jihadist groups and rebels , together with their families , gathered in the northwestern city of Idlib . This doubled its population to 2.7 million , making it Syria 's largest city . <p> Significantly , Idlib shares a large border with Turkey . Turkey has had a military presence in northeastern Syria and controlled a large territory during three successive military operations in 2017 , 2018 and 2019 . <p> Largely rural northeastern Syria , as well as the Kurdish and Arab majorities east of the Euphrates River , are controlled by the Kurdish People 's Protection Units ( YPG ) , who managed to fend off IS with US support . This region includes much of Syria 's oil and wheat production . <p> The status quo was cemented by a ceasefire agreement brokered by Russia and Turkey in 2020 . Now this has been disrupted with a surprise attack on Aleppo by a coalition of rebels and opposition forces . <h> Why did the insurgents attack Aleppo ? <p> The forces that participated in the Aleppo offensive are a coalition of various rebels and anti-Assad opposition groups centered in Idlib . The biggest block is Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , which splintered from Al-Qaeda in 2016 . <p> Pulling together such diverse groups into a coalition needs an facilitator . It seems Turkey has played this role . Taking advantage of the caretaker status of US politics after the elections , Turkey had the opportunity to give the go-ahead to the Aleppo offensive . <p> Russian preoccupation with the costly war in Ukraine is another contributing factor . Russia has been struggling to win the war for almost three years , with increasing casualties and cost . Russia is a major supplier of weapons to the Assad government . But just about all Russian military personnel -- and most importantly weapons -- were concentrated on the Ukraine front . <p> Russia 's distraction , and weakening support for the Assad government , partly explains the opportunity seized by the HTS and SNA coalitions . <p> Iran is another important supporter of the Assad government . It has been under increasing pressure from Israel and the US since October 7 for supporting Hamas and other anti-Israel political elements such as Yemen and Hezbollah in Lebanon . Israel has accused Iran of providing weapons to Hezbollah . <p> Added to this , Iran has had a series of political setbacks . In May 2024 , Iran lost its President Ebrahim Raisi in a helicopter crash . In July 2024 , Hamas political leader Ismail Haniyeh was assassinated in Tehran . Most recently there have been rumors that Iran 's Supreme Leader , Ali Khamenei , is seriously ill . <p> Iran 's focus on these factors may have diverted its attention from Syria , potentially weakening its support for the Assad government . <p> What seems to be the real driving force behind the Aleppo offensive is Hamas 's surprise attack on Israel on October 7 . That attack demonstrated how a well-coordinated and unified surprise operation could yield military results against a significantly stronger force . <p> It is highly likely that opposition groups in Syria used October 7 as a model and rallied to unite disparate groups under one goal : the capture of Aleppo . They took the opportunity caused by the key players in the Syrian conflict being distracted , striking when it was least expected . <h> What might happen now ? <p> After their spectacular success in capturing Aleppo , the anti-Assad forces ' morale is high . They will cement their hold in Aleppo . Rebels may even continue their offensive to Hama , the next large city south of Idlib . <p> Turkey will continue to supply the rebels with political support and supplies . Turkey aims to extend its influence in northern Syria through vassal groups of Sunni Muslims , the dominant orientation of Islam in Turkey . Its main objective is to limit and , if possible , reduce regions controlled by Kurdish YPG . Capturing Aleppo from the Assad government is a key step in this objective . <p> While Kurds are not happy with Turkey 's growing involvement in the Syrian civil war , they may prefer to deal with HTS than the Assad government . Kurdish militia have already announced they are withdrawing from Aleppo and will not contest rebels in the city . <h> Sign up for one of our free newsletters <p> The Daily ReportStart your day right with Asia Times ' top stories <p> AT Weekly ReportA weekly roundup of Asia Times ' most-read stories <p> Assad continues to receive vital , albeit weakened , support from Russia and Iran . Domestically , Assad enjoys backing from key constituencies , including the Shiite-Alawite population and secular-minded Syrians who oppose the establishment of a theocratic state . These groups provide Assad with a critical base of support , which reinforces his regime 's resilience in the face of opposition advances . <p> Assad is expected to intensify efforts to reclaim Aleppo . Even if he ultimately loses the city , he may use the battle as an opportunity to consolidate his hold over other key regions and fortify his power in the territories still under his control . <p> The Syrian civil war remains unresolved as the country fractures into three zones : Turkey-backed Sunni forces in the north , US-supported Kurdish forces in the northeast , and the Shiite-backed Assad government controlling the west and south . <p> Each faction , driven by international and local interests , continues to entrench its hold , deepening the divide and complicating prospects for peace . <p> Mehmet Ozalp is associate professor in Islamic Studies , director of The Centre for Islamic Studies and Civilization and Executive Member of Public and Contextual Theology , Charles Sturt University <h> Join the Conversation <p> This was never a " civil war " . That 's Western propaganda . It was always a regime change operation since 2011 . All the militants poured in from Turkey and Jordan , where Western intelligence agenices trained terrorists . The brutal sanctions on Syria imposed by the US are punishing the Syrian people in what can only be described as war crimes , for their refusal to surrender . Syria highlights once again , the monsters across the West and their system of oppression . 
@@118533976 <p> The surprise advance was led by members of Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , fighting alongside Turkish-backed groups opposing the rule of President Bashar al-Assad . <p> While the offensive -- the most significant fighting in recent years -- may be the first time that many outside of Syria have heard of the Islamist group , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham has been growing in reputation and capabilities over a number of years . <p> It followed a significant shift in the group 's strategic operations that has seen it become less concerned with global jihad and more focused on attaining power in Syria . <h> Origins and ideology <p> Hayat Tahrir al-Sham has its roots in the early stages of the Syrian civil war , which began in 2011 as a popular uprising against the autocratic government of Assad . <p> The group originated as an offshoot of the Nusra Front , the official al-Qaida affiliate in Syria . Hayat Tahrir al-Sham was initially recognized for its combat effectiveness and its commitment to global jihadist ideology , or the establishment of strict Islamic rule across the Muslim world . <p> In a pivotal shift in 2016 under the leadership of Abu Mohammed al-Jawlani , the Nusra Front publicly cut ties with al-Qaida and adopted the new name Jabhat Fateh al-Sham , which means " Front for the Conquest of the Levant . " <p> The following year , it merged with several other factions in the Syrian war to become Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , or the " Organization for the Liberation of the Levant . " <h> Latest stories <p> This rebranding aimed to move away from al-Qaida 's global jihadist agenda , which had limited the group 's appeal within Syria . It allowed Hayat Tahrir al-Sham to focus on issues specific to Syrians , such as local governance , economic issues and humanitarian aid . <p> Despite these changes , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham 's core ideology continues to be rooted in jihadism , with the primary objective of overthrowing the Assad government and establishing Islamic rule in Syria . <p> This strategic shift was partly born of pragmatism . To keep power over the territories it controlled , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham leaders concluded the group needed to minimize international opposition and effectively integrate into the broader Syrian revolutionary movement . <p> In other words , it needed to balance its radical Islamist origins with the demands of local governance and political engagement . <p> In an effort to further burnish its image , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham has ramped up its public relations efforts , both at home and abroad . For example , it has engaged with international media and humanitarian organizations to negotiate -- and film -- aid deliveries to the areas it governs . <p> These initiatives showcase a commitment to civilian welfare and distance the group from the violence typically associated with jihadist movements . <h> On the offensive again <p> The recent military offensive , during which Hayat Tahrir al-Sham-led rebels swiftly captured significant parts of Aleppo and pushed toward the city of Hama , marks another significant strategic pivot . It signals a revitalization of Hayat Tahrir al-Sham 's military objectives and its ability to adapt to changing circumstances . <p> Hayat Tahrir al-Sham 's thinking in launching an advance now has likely been influenced by a blend of regional and local dynamics . The Assad government 's increasing vulnerability has become evident of late , marked by economic deterioration and corruption . <p> Many areas in Syria remain only nominally under state control , and the central government is heavily reliant on support from allies such as Russia and Iran . These allies , however , have been preoccupied by their respective conflicts against Ukraine and Israel , potentially diluting their support for Syria . <p> Compounding Assad 's weakness is the diminishing capacities of Hezbollah and Iranian forces . Both have been crucial in propping up Assad throughout the civil war . But Israeli strikes in Lebanon , Syria and Iran have potentially weakened Hezbollah and Iran 's ability to support Syria . And this reduction in support may have tipped the military balance in the civil war toward opposition groups . <h> Sign up for one of our free newsletters <p> The Daily ReportStart your day right with Asia Times ' top stories <p> AT Weekly ReportA weekly roundup of Asia Times ' most-read stories <p> Moreover , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham and other rebel groups are facing a Syrian military hit by low morale , high desertion rates and inadequate military equipment . Disarray among government forces has made it difficult for Assad to respond effectively to the renewed assault by opposition forces . <p> In contrast , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham has bolstered its military capabilities . Having survived various military campaigns , the group has consolidated power and professionalized its forces . <p> Hayat Tahrir al-Sham has established a military academy , reorganized its units into a more conventional military structure , and created specialized forces adept at executing coordinated and strategic attacks -- as evidenced by the recent advance in Aleppo . <p> Moreover , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham has managed to gain some local support by positioning itself as a defender of Sunni Muslim interests . The inability to find a political solution to the Syrian crisis has only fueled local resentment to the Assad government , creating a supportive base for any force that actively opposes the regime . <p> With growing support on the ground , a more professional military and a political wing focused on governance , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham has evolved from a jihadist offshoot into a major player in Syria -- a development that has huge implications for the internal dynamics of the war-torn country . <h> Join the Conversation <p> Iran is in the throws of a strategic defeat . Lebanon went badly ; the Alawites look set to lose in Syria , -- Russia is too preoccupied elsewhere to do much ; and Iran herself is likely to be bashed when Trump ascends the throne , -- their air defences are ineffective . But all that is by-the-by . <p> The big news is the likely Hayat Tahrir al-Sham takeover in Syria . This will place Turkey and Gulf countries in a position to influence the new government . With Islamist roots it wo n't be friendly to Israel . Turkey is playing a long game here , its priority will be to get rid of the Kurdish autonomous region . The Gulf Arabs will be happy to subsidise the new Sunnite government . Washington will expect to control the situation by telling Turkey and the Gulf Arabs what is expected of them , except it might not work . The doings in Gaza lays heavy on the Arab collective conscience . 
@@118533978 <p> A protester at a pro-Palestine rally near the US embassy in Kuala Lumpur , Malaysia , in December 2023 . Photo : Fazry Ismail / EPA via The Conversation <p> Since Hamas launched its unprecedented October 7 attack on Israel , international links to the militant group have been placed under scrutiny . <p> Some nations have tried to lessen or hide their previous relationships , or have acted to leverage their links to assist with diplomacy . Malaysia 's prime minister , Anwar Ibrahim , on the other hand , quickly phoned Hamas leaders and expressed his unwavering support . <p> This response was not entirely unexpected . Malaysia is a multicultural country , and my research there demonstrates that pro-Palestinian , antisemitic and anti-Israel beliefs all operate as a symbolic rejection of secularism and the West . <p> For many Malay nationalists , Israel , Jews and Zionism have come to represent the pinnacle of this threat , which then functions as an affirmation of political Islam and Malay supremacy . <p> I argue this ethnoreligious nationalism is a form of social control . It enables the authorities to retain support by appealing directly to ethnic Malay Muslims , who make up around 60% of the population . <p> One way in which the Malaysian authorities try to unify ethnic Malays is by constructing an outside and imagined enemy that is threatening Malay Islam and its supremacy in the nation . <p> Such unity manifests in Ketuanan Melayu , which translates as " Malay overlordship " in English . This state-promoted concept is socially amalgamated to a general anti-Western discourse that , appropriate for a formerly colonised nation , places emphasis on post-colonial and developing-world nationalism . <p> It involves expressing solidarity with Muslims who have been victimized by non-Muslims , an action that melds well with a simplistic construction of the Palestinian cause . <p> Anwar Ibrahim addressing a pro-Palestine rally at a stadium in Kuala Lumpur in August 2024 . <p> The country was the second in the world and the first Southeast Asian nation to award full diplomatic status to the Palestine Liberation Organization ( PLO ) . The former PLO leader , Yasser Arafat , paid tribute to Malaysia 's support when he visited in the 1980s and early 90s , ranking it as superior to that from Arab nations . <h> Latest stories <p> Malaysia has also lobbied actively at the UN for Palestine , continually donated money to aid organizations , and regularly awards scholarships to Palestinian students . When Hamas gained prominence in the late 1990s , Malaysia was quick to build links with the group . <p> Malaysian rhetoric around the Israel-Palestine conflict accelerated in the late 2010s , when Malay political parties began to lose popularity . Barisan Nasional , the coalition that had for decades dominated the country 's politics , lost Malaysia 's general election in 2018 . <p> As part of the new ruling coalition , Ibrahim has also struggled to garner support from Malay Muslims . According to a 2023 poll by Malaysian think tank Ilham Centre , he had only a 24% approval rating among ethnic Malays . So the authorities have sought to bolster support from this group through increasingly hardline forms of performative religion . <p> This is often realized through a construction of Hamas as Islamic freedom fighters . Such beliefs are also supplemented by strong anti-Israel and antisemitic sentiment , including politicians attempting to discredit each other with accusations of being a " Jewish agent . " <h> Questioning Hamas links <p> The Malaysian authorities affirmed their commitment to Hamas in 2019 by hosting a succession of high-ranking delegations from the group . <p> This came at a time when Hamas 's popularity and rule within Gaza had diminished and when its international standing was made more precarious by Israel 's growing international relations as part of the Abraham Accords , which normalized relations between Israel and the UAE and Bahrain . <p> But once the full details of the atrocities committed on October 7 were uncovered , Malaysian citizens , civil society groups and opposition political forces all expressed discomfort with the government 's position . <p> Malaysian news reports openly suggest that Ibrahim 's stance is designed to " shore up his Islamist credentials " , rather than show concern for the Palestinian people . And shortly after October 7 , there were calls to revoke the visas of Hamas officials . <p> And the government was forced to backtrack after photos emerged of schoolchildren being handed toy guns and balaclavas during a " Solidarity with Palestine " week . Seventeen civil society organizations released a joint statement raising concern over the long-term damage of such an event . <p> Ten days after October 7 , Malaysia 's anti-corruption agency suspended the Malaysian charity group Aman Palestin Berhad and froze its bank accounts in a reflection of these fears . <p> Khaled Meshaal , who served as the second chairman of the Hamas Political Bureau from 1996 to 2017 , giving a talk in Kuala Lumpur , Malaysia , in 2015 . Photo : hairul Effendi / Shutterstock via The Conversation <p> The questioning and outright rejection of Hamas links by Malaysian society after October 7 should be understood as part of a trend towards dismissing the divisive ideology of religious nationalism and pushing for a more inclusive Malaysia . <p> My book , Anti-Semitism in Contemporary Malaysia ( 2019 ) , pointed to an increased awareness among the Malaysian public of the role such rhetoric plays as part of a racially and religiously divisive agenda . <h> Sign up for one of our free newsletters <p> The Daily ReportStart your day right with Asia Times ' top stories <p> AT Weekly ReportA weekly roundup of Asia Times ' most-read stories <p> In particular , there is strong dissatisfaction from the growing population of secular-leaning and middle-class urban Malays , as well as ethnic minorities . <p> This has been building for some time . It was evident in the dissatisfaction expressed by Malaysian citizens online when the country was banned from hosting the 2019 Paralympics after refusing to grant visas to Israeli athletes . <p> Similar dissatisfaction is evident on Malaysian social media pages , such as those of the left-leaning news portal Malaysiakini and the Malay Mail , Malaysia 's oldest daily newspaper . Many commentators point out the hypocrisy of Malaysia 's support for Palestine in light of the poor treatment of minorities at home . <p> There is also growing interest in Malaysia 's small historical Jewish community and its cemetery on the island of Penang . This is more evidence of Malaysians seeking an alternative narrative of history to that promoted by the state . <p> The Israel-Palestine situation is complex , dangerous and tragic . Over 45,000 people have been killed since the October 7 attack , 97 Israeli hostages are still missing , and the devastation in Gaza is estimated at over US$18 billion . <p> The Malaysian context shows how the various international positions and responses to the conflict are often completely disconnected from the needs and experiences of the Palestinian and Israeli people . 
@@118686035 <h> Assad 's fall in Syria exposes limits of China 's Middle East diplomacy <p> Chinese President Xi Jinping shakes hands with Syria 's President Bashar al-Assad in eastern Hangzhou city , in this handout picture released by Sana on September 22 , 2023 , Syria . SANA/Handout via REUTERS/File Photo <p> Just over a year ago , China gave Bashar al-Assad and his wife a warm welcome during their six-day visit to the country , offering the former Syrian leader a rare break from years of international isolation since the start of a civil war in 2011 . <p> As the couple attended the Asian Games , President Xi Jinping vowed to support Assad in " opposing external interference " and in Syria 's rebuilding , while his wife Asma was feted in Chinese media . <p> But the abrupt end to the rule of the authoritarian leader so explicitly backed by Xi only last year has dealt a blow to China 's diplomatic ambitions in the Middle East and exposed the limits of its strategy in the region , analysts say . A coalition of rebels seized Syria 's capital Damascus on Sunday after a lightning offensive that toppled Assad 's regime and ended his family 's 50-year dynasty . <p> " There 's been a lot of an exaggerated sense of China 's ability to shape political outcomes in the region , " said Jonathan Fulton , a nonresident senior fellow at the Atlantic Council . <p> While the collapse of the Assad regime was seen reducing the influence in the Arab world of his main backers , Iran and Russia , it was also a blow for China 's global ambitions , said Fulton . <p> " A lot of what ( China has ) been doing internationally has relied on support with those countries , and their inability to prop up their biggest partner in the Middle East says quite a lot about their ability to do much beyond the region . " <p> TACKLING HOTSPOTS <p> After China brokered a deal between long-time rivals Saudi Arabia and Iran in 2023 , Chinese media praised Beijing 's rising profile in a neighbourhood long dominated by Washington . <p> Wang Yi , China 's top diplomat , said the country would play a constructive role in handling global " hotspot issues " . China also brokered a truce between Fatah , Hamas and other rival Palestinian factions earlier this year and has made repeated calls for a ceasefire in Gaza . <p> But despite bringing Middle Eastern leaders to Beijing and rounds of " shuttle diplomacy " by its Middle Eastern envoy , Zhai Jun , in the months since , Palestinians have not formed a unity government and the conflict in Gaza continues . <p> " Assad 's sudden downfall is not a scenario Beijing wishes to see , " said Fan Hongda , a Middle East scholar at Shanghai International Studies University . " China prefers a more stable and independent Middle East , as chaos or a pro-American orientation in the region does not align with China 's interests . " <p> The response by China 's foreign ministry to Assad 's fall has been muted , focusing on the safety of Chinese nationals and calling for a " political solution " to restore stability in Syria as soon as possible . <p> Ministry of foreign affairs spokesperson , Mao Ning , on Monday appeared to leave an opening for engagement with the future government : " China 's friendly relations with Syria are for all Syrian people , " she said . <p> Chinese experts and diplomats say Beijing will now bide its time before recognising a new government in Damascus . <p> It could use its expertise and financial muscle to support reconstruction , they say , but its commitments are likely to be limited because China has sought to minimise financial risks overseas in recent years . <p> Syria joined China 's flagship Belt and Road Initiative in 2022 , but there have been no significant investments by Chinese firms since , partly due to sanctions . <p> China is " not really able to fundamentally replace the West either as an economic partner , or diplomatic or military force in the region , " said Bill Figueroa , assistant professor at the University of Groningen and an expert in China-Middle East relations . <p> " China in 2024 has way less money than China in 2013 -- 2014 , when the BRI was launched , " Figueroa said . There is " an obvious reassessment going on in the direction of safer investments and reducing China 's risks overall , " he added . 
@@118730718 <h> Airline pilots , crews voice concerns about Middle East routes <p> In late September , an experienced pilot at low-cost European airline Wizz Air felt anxious after learning his plane would fly over Iraq at night amid mounting tensions between nearby Iran and Israel . <p> He decided to query the decision since just a week earlier the airline had deemed the route unsafe . In response , Wizz Air 's flight operations team told him the airway was now considered secure and he had to fly it , without giving further explanation , the pilot said . <p> " I was n't really happy with it , " the pilot , who requested anonymity from fear he could lose his job , told Reuters . Days later , Iraq closed its airspace when Iran fired missiles on Oct. 1 at Israel . " It confirmed my suspicion that it was n't safe . " <p> In response to Reuters ' queries , Wizz Air said safety is its top priority and it had carried out detailed risk assessments before resuming flights over Iraq and other Middle Eastern countries . <p> Reuters spoke to four pilots , three cabin crew members , three flight security experts and two airline executives about growing safety concerns in the European air industry due to escalating tensions in the Middle East following Hamas ' attack on Israel in October 2023 , that prompted the war in Gaza . <p> The Middle East is a key air corridor for planes heading to India , South-East Asia and Australia and last year was criss-crossed daily by 1,400 flights to and from Europe , Eurocontrol data show . <p> The safety debate about flying over the region is playing out in Europe largely because pilots there are protected by unions , unlike other parts of the world . <p> Reuters reviewed nine unpublished letters from four European unions representing pilots and crews that expressed worries about air safety over Middle Eastern countries . The letters were sent to Wizz Air , Ryanair , airBaltic , the European Commission and the European Union Aviation Safety Agency ( EASA ) between June and August . <p> " No one should be forced to work in such a hazardous environment and no commercial interests should outweigh the safety and well-being of those on board , " read a letter , addressed to EASA and the European Commission from Romanian flight crew union FPU Romania , dated Aug. 26 . <p> In other letters , staff called on airlines to be more transparent about their decisions on routes and demanded the right to refuse to fly a dangerous route . <p> There have been no fatalities or accidents impacting commercial aviation tied to the escalation of tensions in the Middle East since the war in Gaza erupted last year . <p> Air France opened an internal investigation after one of its commercial planes flew over Iraq on Oct. 1 during Tehran 's missile attack on Israel . On that occasion , airlines scrambled to divert dozens of planes heading towards the affected areas in the Middle East . <p> The ongoing tensions between Israel and Iran and the abrupt ousting of President Bashar al-Assad by Syrian rebels at the weekend have raised concerns of further insecurity in the region . <p> The use of missiles in the region has revived memories of the downing of Malaysian Airlines Flight MH17 over eastern Ukraine in 2014 and of Ukraine International Airlines flight PS752 en route from Tehran in 2020 . <p> Being accidentally shot-down in the chaos of war is the top worry , three pilots and two aviation safety experts told Reuters , along with the risk of an emergency landing . <p> While airlines including Lufthansa and KLM no longer fly over Iran , carriers including Etihad , flydubai , Aeroflot and Wizz Air were still crossing the country 's airspace as recently as Dec. 2 , data from tracking service FlightRadar24 show . <p> Some European airlines including Lufthansa and KLM allow crew to opt-out of routes they do n't feel are safe , but others such as Wizz Air , Ryanair and airBaltic do n't . <p> AirBaltic CEO Martin Gauss said his airline meets an international safety standard that does n't need to be adjusted . <p> " If we start a right of refusal , then where do we stop ? the next person feels unhappy overflying Iraqi airspace because there 's tension there ? " he told Reuters on Dec. 2 in response to queries about airBaltic flight safety talks with unions . <p> Ryanair , which intermittently flew to Jordan and Israel until September , said it makes security decisions based on EASA guidance . <p> EASA said it has been involved in a number of exchanges with pilots and airlines on route safety in recent months concerning the Middle East , adding that disciplining staff for raising safety concerns would run counter to a " just culture " where employees can voice worries . <p> INSUFFICIENT REASSURANCES <p> One Abu Dhabi-based Wizz Air pilot told Reuters he was comfortable flying over the conflict-torn region as he believes the industry has a very high safety standard . <p> But for some pilots and crew members working at budget airlines , the reassurances of the companies are insufficient . <p> They told Reuters pilots should have more choice in refusing flights over potentially dangerous airspace and requested more information about airline security assessments . <p> " The fact that Wizz Air sends emails asserting that it 's safe is irrelevant to commercial employees , " read a letter from FPU Romania to Chief Operating Officer Diarmuid O'Conghaile , dated Aug. 12 . " Flights into these conflict areas , even if they are rescue missions , should be carried out by military personnel and aircraft , not by commercial crews . " <p> Mircea Constantin , a former cabin crew member who represents FPU Romania , said Wizz Air never gave a formal response to this letter and similar ones sent earlier this year , but did send security guidance and updates to staff . <p> A pilot and a cabin crew member , who declined to be named for fear of retaliatory action , said they got warnings from their employers for refusing to fly on Middle Eastern routes or calling in sick . <p> CONGESTED SKIES <p> Last month , 165 missiles were launched in Middle Eastern conflict zones versus just 33 in November 2023 , according to the latest available data from Osprey Flight Solutions . <p> But airspace can only be enforcably restricted if a country chooses to shut it down , as in the case of Ukraine after Russia 's full-scale invasion in 2022 . <p> Several airlines have opted to briefly suspend flights to places like Israel when tension rises . Lufthansa and British Airways did so after Iran bombarded Israel on April 13 . <p> But this limits the airspace in use in the already congested Middle Eastern skies . <p> Choosing to fly over Central Asia or Egypt and Saudi Arabia to avoid Middle Eastern hot spots is also more costly as planes burn more fuel and some countries charge higher overflight fees . <p> Flying a commercial plane from Singapore to London-Heathrow through Afghanistan and Central Asia , for instance , cost an airline $4,760 in overflight fees , about 50% more than a route through the Middle East , according to two Aug. 31 flight plans reviewed by Reuters . <p> Reuters could not name the airline as the flight plans are not public . <p> Some private jets are avoiding the most critical areas . <p> " At the moment , my no-go areas would be the hotspot points : Libya , Israel , Iran , simply because they 're sort of caught up in it all , " said Andy Spencer , a Singapore-based pilot who flies private <p> Spencer , who has two decades of experience and flies through the Middle East regularly , said that on a recent flight from Manila to Cuba , he flew from Dubai over Egypt and north through Malta before refuelling in Morocco to circumvent Libyan and Israeli airspace . <p> EASA , regarded by industry experts as the strictest regional safety regulator , issues public bulletins on how to fly safely over conflict zones . <p> But these are n't mandatory and every airline decides where to travel based on a patchwork of government notices , third-party security advisors , in-house security teams and information sharing between carriers , leading to divergent policies . <p> Such intelligence is not usually shared with staff . <p> The opacity has sown fear and mistrust among pilots , cabin crew and passengers as they question whether their airline has missed something carriers in other countries are aware of , said Otjan de Bruijn , a former head of European pilots union the European Cockpit Association and a pilot for KLM . <p> " The more information you make available to pilots , the more informed a decision they can make , " said Spencer , who is also an operations specialist at flight advisory body OPSGROUP , which offers independent operational advice to the aviation industry . <p> When Gulf players like Etihad , Emirates or flydubai suddenly stop flying over Iran or Iraq , the industry sees it as a reliable indicator of risk , pilots and security sources said , as these airlines can have access to detailed intelligence from their governments . <p> Flydubai told Reuters it operates within airspace and airways in the region that are approved by Dubai 's General Civil Aviation Authority . Emirates said it continuously monitors all routings , adjusting as required and would never operate a flight unless it was safe to do so . Etihad said it only operates through approved airspace . <p> Passenger rights groups are also asking for travellers to receive more information . <p> " If passengers decline to take flights over conflict zones , airlines would be disinclined to continue such flights , " said Paul Hudson , the head of U.S.-based passenger group Flyers Rights . " And passengers who take such flights would do so informed of the risks . " 
@@119002864 <p> Timur was a Mongol Turkish conqueror , leading military campaigns throughout a large part of western Asia . In his expedition east , in what is now called Afghanistan , Timur horrifically constructed a tower made of living men . He heaped and cemented together the men with bricks and mortar . In Isfahan , a central city in Iran , Timur punished a revolt with a massacre . The heads of 70,000 people were built up into minarets . Photo : WorldAtlas.com <p> Too often in the West we suffer from dictator envy , feeling jealous and a bit afraid of the power and decisiveness of today 's autocracies such as Russia and China . This month should act as a corrective for such feelings , for it has been a terrible December for dictators . This does not mean that the liberal West has triumphed . But it does mean that our chances of competing with the autocrats are better than our melancholic form of self-flagellation has led us to believe . <p> No one need feel sorry for Bashar al-Assad and his family , and the fact that Syria 's brutal dictator has had to swap his palaces in Damascus for humbler premises in Moscow . Let us also not feel pity for President Vladimir Putin for having to act as host to this failed leader whose collapse has exposed Russia 's own weakness , potentially depriving it of its naval and air bases on the Mediterranean . <p> We also need feel no sorrow for the Ayatollahs and Revolutionary Guards of Iran , who this year have seen their allies in Gaza , Lebanon and now Syria all destroyed , and the weaknesses in Iran 's own defense systems cruelly exposed . Hamas in Gaza , Hezbollah in Lebanon and the Houthis in Yemen can be re-armed and re-born , but the strategy of using these militias to project Iranian power and undermine the Ayatollahs ' enemy , Israel , is in tatters . <p> We can feel pity for the estimated 12,000 North Korean soldiers who have been sent to fight alongside Russia 's weakened army , as they are now being targeted and many may soon be killed by long-range Ukrainian weaponry . But their dictator back home in Pyongyang deserves no pity for his strategy of supporting Russia . It has gained him some money and some missile technology , but little more . <h> Latest stories <p> Across the " Demilitarized Zone " that since 1953 has separated North and South Korea , President Kim Jong-un has watched his democratically elected counterpart , President Yoon Suk Yeol make a fool of himself on December 3 by attempting to use martial law to control an unfriendly parliament , but Kim has little to gloat about . President Yoon 's failed coup d'etat demonstrated the strength and resilience of South Korea 's democracy . <p> The big question is where these December disasters will leave the global axis connecting Russia , China , Iran and North Korea as opponents of the West . Three of the four have been aggressive breakers of international law , while the real superpower in the axis , China , has tried to present itself as a rising , peace-seeking nation that stands as an alternative to the declining , hypocritical United States . Anyone who stood in awe of China and its fellow-travellers as this year began should now have had their eyes opened to the much-less impressive reality . <p> Make no mistake : the West has plenty of problems too . Japan has a weak government ; Germany , a collapsed government ; France , no government ; and the United States has re-elected a president who holds America 's own allies in contempt and ( like the late Silvio Berlusconi ) prefers talking to Putin , Xi and Kim to having to deal with democratic governments . But with such weak opponents the West also has reason to feel optimistic about what could be achieved in 2025 . <p> The first opportunity concerns the war in Ukraine . In military terms , both the Ukrainian and the Russian forces are exhausted . During 2024 , both armies made gains : the Ukrainians took and held on to territory in Kursk , inside Russia ; the Russians moved slowly forward in the eastern region of Ukraine , but despite huge casualties have succeeded in occupying only a further 0.4% of Ukraine 's territory since January 1 . And now the weakness of both Russia and Iran has led to Assad 's fall in Syria . <p> This has greatly reduced President-elect Trump 's incentive to bully Ukraine into accepting Russia 's extravagant and unrealistic peace conditions . And it has greatly increased Putin 's incentive to weaken those conditions in the hope of avoiding further humiliations . Trump has the chance to begin his presidency by looking like a strong representative of the free world rather than someone begging autocrats for favours . <p> A ceasefire in the spring of 2025 could be in both sides ' interest . If Ukraine 's European allies , led by Poland , Germany , the UK , Sweden , Finland , and the Baltic States can agree to offer security guarantees and finance , which in Russia 's weakened state looks an easier task than before , there must be a good chance that President Volodymyr Zelenskyy will be able to find a deal that maintains his country 's sovereignty , democracy and European future . <p> The second opportunity , which is more one for Europe and Japan to exploit than Trump 's self-centered America , is to improve relations with the vast , and fast-growing , parts of the world that have preferred to avoid alignments either with China and its axis or with the West . Southeast Asia , the Gulf countries of the Middle East , Africa and Latin America have all avoided supporting the West over Ukraine while welcoming money from China and Russia but not domination . <h> Sign up for one of our free newsletters <p> The Daily ReportStart your day right with Asia Times ' top stories <p> AT Weekly ReportA weekly roundup of Asia Times ' most-read stories <p> The proven weakness of the anti-Western axis means that the attractiveness of China as an alternative global leader has diminished . China 's economy remains important but is now suffering from the sort of slow growth and debilitating deflation that made Japan stagnate during the 1990s . Countries of the so-called " Global South " will not want to antagonize China nor to lose its money , but they will be more open to alternative offers from the West . <p> Italy 's Mattei Plan for North Africa now stands a better chance of success , especially given the regime change under way in Syria , as does Japan 's effort to provide military aid and guidance in Southeast Asia . Russia 's weakness makes it more important than ever that Europe should promote its own values and influence in Eastern Europe and Central Asia , but now with a good chance of being taken seriously . Once a new government is in office after Germany 's February elections , this new agenda can take shape , hopefully with a new confidence about the strengths of the liberal West against these fragile autocrats . <p> First published in English on the substack Bill Emmott 's Global View , this is the English original of an article published in Italian December 16 by La Stampa . It is republished with permission . <h> Join the Conversation <p> Mister Bill , I think you are more then well paid by your masters for all this nonsense you are talking . And you are an intelligent man , but sold yourself to the higher bidder . And we know who is the higher bidder . Shame . 
@@119428733 <h> On the Prospect of Buddhist Complicity in Genocide <p> Smoke billows in Gaza amid the ongoing conflict between Israel and the Palestinian Islamist group Hamas , as seen from southern Israel , 21 March 2024 . Photo by Ammar Awad . From reuters.com <p> To suggest that Buddhism , or at least some Buddhists , are complicit in ( alleged ) genocide would seem not only preposterous , but would call into question the sanity of the person making such a claim . Yet , while I leave the question of my sanity for readers to decide , I nevertheless assert that there are those who identify as Buddhists and who are now complicit in genocide . How could this be ? <p> Let me begin by first putting my assertion into context . The context I refer to is the emergence of Buddhist chaplains in the US military . Although there were attempts to create a Buddhist chaplaincy in the US Army as early as the Second World War , these attempts failed , inasmuch as they were made by Japanese American Buddhists whose Japanese ethnicity made both them and their religion suspect . According to Greg Robinson , professor of history at the University of Quebec in Montreal , then Assistant Secretary of Defense John J. McCloy feared that negative American perceptions of Buddhists would compromise the reputation of the all-Japanese American Army units formed to fight in the European theater . <p> Thus , it was not until 1990 that the American military resolved to make plans for the inclusion of Buddhist chaplains in its ranks . In August of that year , the Institute of Heraldry produced a rank insignia , taking the Dharma Wheel or dharmachakra as its emblem . <p> From learnreligions.com <p> The Buddhist Churches of America , affiliated with the Nishi Honganji branch of the Jodo Shin ( True Pure Land ) school in Japan , would be recognized as the sole organization allowed to nominate Buddhist chaplains . Lieutenant Junior Grade Jeanette Gracie Shin , an ordained priest in that school , became the first formally recognized US Buddhist chaplain in 2004 , serving as a United States Navy Chaplain stationed at Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton in California . In working with service members , Shin stated that she helped them relax , meditate , and learn about the history of Buddhism . <p> Lt. Shin recognized there might be Buddhists who would criticize her role in the military in light of the requirements associated with Right Livelihood and obedience to the first precept , to refrain from taking life . For this reason , in a January 2008 Dharma talk titled : " Shakyamuni : The First Warrior , " Shin noted : " Siddhartha Gautama ( his birth name ) was born into the kshatriya varna or caste of ancient India/Nepal . This was the caste of the warriors , the rulers and aristocrats of ancient India . . . . The Buddha 's Enlightenment was described as a ' battle ' between himself and Mara , the embodiment of death and evil . . . . The ancient texts emphasize the need for determination , sacrifice , and courage for Buddhists to follow the path of the Buddhadharma , to bear up under hardships in order to achieve the highest goal a human being can attain : to conquer death , fear , ignorance , evil , and thereby attain liberation . The qualities of a good warrior are exactly the qualities needed for a serious Buddhist practitioner , " ( emphasis mine ) . <p> Capt . Somya Malasri , a former Thai monk , is a Buddhist chaplain in the US Army . Like Lt. Shin , Capt . Malasri was also anxious to justify the Buddhist rationale for warfare . He wrote : " A lot of people ask if a Buddhist can be a soldier because the first precept is no killing . The answer is yes . You can protect yourself or sacrifice yourself to do the righteous thing . You can sacrifice yourself to protect your country because if there 's no country , there 's no freedom , and you can not practice your religion . In Buddhism , if you go to war and kill others , it 's your duty , not your intention to kill other people . If a person dies of your intention , and you have anger , that is wrong in Buddhism . When soldiers go to war , they do n't have any intention to kill others and they do n't have hatred in their minds , " ( emphasis mine ) . <p> While there are still only a few Buddhist chaplains in the US Air Force , October 2007 saw the dedication of the Vast Refuge Dharma Hall Chapel at the Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs . This chapel came about as a result of a request made in 2004 by a graduate of the Academy 's first Class of 1959 , Wiley Burch . Burch , now a Buddhist priest affiliated with the Hollow Bones Rinzai Zen school , requested that a multipurpose room in the lower level of the Cadet Chapel be transformed into a Buddhist chapel . <p> At the Chapel 's dedication , Burch said : " I understood there was a possibility or a place for Buddhism in the military . I understand the culture very well , and I understand the diversity of it . From that place , rather than being hard and coming in against , I came in willing to accept all . That 's a Buddhist teaching , not to set yourself up against things so much as to just be , we say , like clouds and like water , just flow . . . . Without compassion , war is nothing but criminal activity . It is necessary sometimes to take life , but we never take it for granted . " <p> The Academy 's Buddhist program leader , Sarah Bender Sensei of the Springs Mountain Sangha , added : " People in the military come up -- for real -- against questions that most of us just consider abstractly . The questions of Buddhism are the questions of life and death . So where else would you want Buddhism than right there where those questions are most vivid ? " <p> One American Buddhist chaplain for whom the questions of life and death were far from abstract was Lt. ( now Captain ) Thomas Dyer , the first Zen Buddhist chaplain in the US Army . While serving with the 278th Armored Cavalry Regiment , Lt. Dyer provided meditation instruction to soldiers stationed at Camp Taji in Iraq , a base that came under frequent attack by Iraqi opposition forces ( a video of a workshop conducted by Lt. Dyer at Camp Taji is on YouTube ) . Dyer subsequently explained the relationship of Zen to Buddhism as follows : <p> Primarily Buddhism is a methodology of transforming the mind . The mind has flux in it or movement , past and future fantasy , which causes us not to interact deeply with life . So Buddhism has a methodology , a teaching and a practice of meditation to help one concentrate in the present moment to experience reality as it is . . . . Zen practice is to be awake in the present moment both in sitting and then walking throughout the day . So the idea is that enlightenment will come from just being purely aware of the present moment in the present moment . ( YouTube ) <p> US soldiers during the US invasion of Iraq , 2003 . From history.com <p> In hindsight it can be said that Lt. Dyer 's meditation session on the battlefield marked the beginning of Buddhism 's complicity in alleged genocide . Why ? Because , like many knowledgeable commentators , Dennis Fritz , a former Pentagon insider , made it clear in his recent book , Deadly Betrayal ( 2024 ) , that the 2003 US invasion of Iraq took place under totally false pretenses . That is to say , Saddam Hussein had no weapons of mass destruction , nor did he have any connection to the terrorists who attacked the Twin Towers in New York City . In short , Iraq presented no threat to the peace and security of the US . <p> Instead , Fritz revealed that the whole operation was the creation of so-called neoconservatives in Washington , DC , who responded to Benjamin Netanyahu 's request to dispose of the leaders of Iran , Iraq , and Syria because of their opposition to the Zionist plan to rid Israel of its indigenous Palestinian inhabitants as well as enlarge the country . Thus , when Lt. Dyer taught soldiers prior to going into battle to be " purely aware of the present moment , " he was assisting the Army in creating a very desirable state of mind . Namely , a state of mind in which soldiers were freed from questions of individual moral choice or responsibility even as they unjustly killed those whom they had been ordered to regard as their enemy . Needless to say , Lt. Dyer said nothing about the basic Buddhist precept to abstain from killing . <p> Of course , the argument can be made that with some 5,287 Buddhists serving in the US military as of June 2009 , there is a clear need to address the spiritual needs of Buddhist soldiers . It can also be said that the emergence of Buddhist chaplains in an increasingly multiracial , multicultural US military was an entirely natural , even inevitable process . Further , in light of institutional Buddhism 's millennial-long history of involvement in , if not support for , organized warfare in those Asian countries where it flourished , why should the US military be any different ? <p> Nevertheless , the question must be asked : what has been the spiritual cost to Buddhism , especially its ethical teachings , for its long and ongoing history of subservience to the state , most especially state-initiated warfare . What happens to the teachings of Shakyamuni Buddha when the chaplains ministering to Buddhist soldiers are themselves in the military 's chain of command , wearing an officer 's uniform and receiving an officer 's salary . Are they not thereby prioritizing their own nation and its national interests alongside , if not above , the teachings of their faith ? <p> In the case of the Buddhist military chaplaincy in the US , it can be argued that the price of Buddhism 's acceptance has been the same as for all other faith traditions . A 29 August 2004 Associated Press article described the role of military chaplains as follows : " As American troops cope with life -- and death -- on a faraway battlefield , military chaplains cope with them , offering prayers , comfort and spiritual advice to keep the American military machine running . . . . Chaplains help grease the wheels of any soldier 's troubled conscience by arguing that killing combatants is justified , " ( emphasis mine ) . <p> In light of the above , it is clear that the problematic aspects of a Buddhist military chaplaincy extend far beyond the Buddhist chaplains introduced in this article . A good argument can be made that the core of the problem lies in the military chaplaincy system itself , for all military chaplains , regardless of faith , are required to unconditionally support the mission of their respective country 's military : to kill or otherwise incapacitate all enemies , domestic and foreign . <p> In the case of the US , one need only think of what would have happened to any Buddhist chaplain who dared in a Dharma talk to openly question , let alone criticize , the invasion of Iraq . Had a Buddhist chaplain questioned the grounds for the invasion , let alone its justness , how long would military authorities have allowed that chaplain to minister to the spiritual needs of soldiers before ousting her or him from military service ? Needless to say , this question can , and should , be asked of military chaplains of all faiths . <p> A weeping man sitting in ruins in Gaza . From economist.com <p> Further , there is no need to ask what American Buddhist chaplains could have done in the event they came to the conviction that the second US invasion of Iraq in 2003 was based on falsehoods ( as it was ) . If morally challenged , they could have resigned their commissions as is their right . However , to the best of my knowledge , none of them did . Rather , they appear to have accepted the old dictum of " my country , right or wrong , " ignoring the commitment of their faith to truthfulness let alone non-killing and compassion . <p> Needless to say , the belief in " my country , right or wrong " is one expression of nationalism or , as some would say , the tribalism of the modern era . When Japan launched its full-scale invasion of China in July 1937 , Chinese Buddhists requested their Japanese counterparts to speak out against the invasion . In response , on 28 July 1937 the pan-Buddhist Myowa-kai wrote : " In order to establish eternal peace in East Asia , arousing the great benevolence and compassion of Buddhism , we are sometimes accepting and sometimes forceful . We now have no choice but to exercise the benevolent forcefulness of ' killing one in order that many may live , ' " a reference to skillful means . The Myowa-kai 's position contributed to the deaths of an estimated 20 million Chinese . <p> On the one hand , it is true that in recent years we no longer see Buddhists in one country using their faith to support the invasion of another country . However , in predominantly Buddhist countries such as Sri Lanka and Myanmar , we now find sangha leaders endorsing the use of violence in the suppression of non-Buddhist minorities in their countries . Thus , by no means has the question of what may be termed " ethnic nationalism " disappeared as a matter of concern . This is despite the universally recognized teaching that the Buddhadharma is concerned with relieving the suffering of all , regardless of ethnicity or nationality . <p> Furthermore , lurking in the background is the question many soldiers and non-soldiers alike have asked themselves in the face of war : what would the founder of my faith , Shakyamuni Buddha in this case , have done or at least expect me to do ? This is a particularly vexing question for Buddhists , since Shakyamuni Buddha is recorded as having personally gone to the battlefield to prevent wars on two occasions . In the first instance he is said to have successfully reasoned with potential belligerents on both sides over the division of a river 's water in a time of drought , thereby preventing a war . <p> In the second instance , Shakyamuni Buddha is recorded as having repeatedly attempted to non-violently dissuade a neighboring kingdom from attacking his homeland . Ultimately , however , he realized there was nothing further he could say or do to prevent the attack . Although raised a warrior with numerous followers at his command , he therefore ceased his efforts , resulting in the near total destruction of his homeland -- the city-state of Kapilavastu . This latter episode suggests that for Shakyamuni Buddha the use of violence , even in a war to defend one 's country , was unacceptable , a very high standard indeed . <p> Of course , no one can be certain that these stories concerning Shakyamuni Buddha 's personal intervention on the battlefield are historically accurate . Nevertheless , their inclusion in the Buddhist corpus indicates , at the very least , the existence of longstanding Buddhist antipathy to warfare , apparently beginning with its founder . On the other hand , over the centuries Buddhists have a long record of collaborating with wars initiated by the political leaders of their day . Thus , as with many faiths , it can be argued that Buddhism is no exception to the clash between theory ( or doctrine ) and historical practice , at least on the part of later Buddhists . <p> The almost unchallenged presence of Buddhist chaplains in the US military suggests that this clash is far from over . For those who believe that Buddhist soldiers , like others , deserve access to the teachings and nurture of the Buddhadharma , one possible solution would be to continue to have Buddhist military chaplains , but such chaplains would not be part of the military and subject to its commands . These chaplains would then be truly independent and free to teach the Dharma according to their understanding . This would , however , require other Buddhist groups to underwrite their expenses . This seems very unlikely to occur anytime soon . <p> As for the larger question of Buddhism 's relationship to war and violence , this is ultimately something each and every Buddhist must decide for themselves , while taking into account the Buddha 's fundamental commitment to non-violence . That said , how does anything written to this point prove that today , Buddhism , in the form of US Buddhist military chaplains , is complicit in genocide -- in other words , the genocide that Israel is allegedly perpetrating against Palestinians in Gaza and beyond ? <p> Lt. Commander Ilduk Kim . Photo by Grace Song <p> As newly promoted Lt. Commander Ilduk Kim recently made clear in her 25 October article for BDG , there are now Buddhist military chaplains serving aboard US Navy ships at sea . Thus , with a large number of Navy ships currently stationed in the eastern Mediterranean off the coast of Lebanon and near Iran , it is possible , if not likely , that Buddhist chaplains are on board one or more of these ships . Purportedly , these ships are present in order to defend Israel from attack , most especially from Iran . <p> In this author 's opinion , Iran has attacked , and threatens to attack , Israel , for one main reason : to end Israel 's dispossession and oppression of the Palestinian people as epitomized in its allegedly genocidal policies in Gaza and beyond . Thus , the reality is that the Navy 's " defense " of Israel , when combined with US supplied bombs and other weaponry , actually serves to enable Israel to continue its alleged genocide . <p> Lt. Commander Kim is described as being sustained as a chaplain by the meaningful interactions she has with sailors and marines , guiding them through difficult times with mindfulness and meditation techniques . Her gentle-yet-firm approach , we are told , is a lifeline for many , offering relief from the stress of military life . <p> Aaron Bushnell . From mpac.org <p> At present , there are clearly many US military personnel , men and women , who are in the midst of great stress in their military life . This is because they are wrestling with their consciences over the supportive actions they have been ordered to undertake on behalf of Israel . One vivid example of this stress occurred on 25 February , when Aaron Bushnell , a 25-year-old serviceman in the US Air Force , died after setting himself on fire outside the front gate of the Embassy of Israel in Washington , DC . Immediately before his act , Bushnell stated : " I am an active-duty member of the United States Air Force . And I will no longer be complicit in genocide . " <p> While I have no knowledge of Lt. Commander Kim 's thoughts regarding Airman Bushnell 's death or Gaza , in light of the war-affirming positions of the numerous Buddhist chaplains introduced above , I fear I may already know the answer . If so , I can not help but conclude that until , and unless , Buddhist military chaplains are united in rejecting US military support for Israel 's alleged genocidal actions , they can not escape the charge made at the beginning of this article , that at least some Buddhists are complicit in alleged genocide . And by the silence and lack of concrete action on the part of many , but by no means all , Buddhists , so are we all . <p> When you login first time using a Social Login button , we collect your account public profile information shared by Social Login provider , based on your privacy settings . We also get your email address to automatically create an account for you in our website . Once your account is created , you 'll be logged-in to this account . <p> DisagreeAgree <p> Notify of <p> I allow to use my email address and send notification about new comments and replies ( you can unsubscribe at any time ) . <p> Label <p> Name* <p> Email* <p> Website <p> Connect with <p> I allow to create an account <p> When you login first time using a Social Login button , we collect your account public profile information shared by Social Login provider , based on your privacy settings . We also get your email address to automatically create an account for you in our website . Once your account is created , you 'll be logged-in to this account . <p> We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits . By clicking " OK " , you consent to the use of ALL the cookies . However , you may visit " Cookie Settings " to provide a controlled consent.OkPrivacy policy 
