@@31500279 <h> WAR OF TERROR <p> PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA , Michelle Obama , former President George W. Bush and Laura Bush walk past the North Pool of the 9/11 Memorial on September 11 in New York . - JUSTIN LANE/AFP <p> It has been a decade of bloodshed and misery after 9/11 , and the U.S. is nowhere near achieving its goal . <p> SEPTEMBER 11 marked the tenth anniversary of the devastating terror attacks on the American mainland that dramatically changed the course of contemporary history and politics . More than 3,000 people perished in the attacks . Besides Americans , the victims included people from many other countries , including India . The world changed fundamentally in many ways after the mind-boggling attacks . Billboards warn people in most metropolitan cities to be suspicious of strangers and strange objects and national laws have been instituted to allow governments to spy on their own people , with more and more cameras being installed in public and private places . In the name of fighting terrorism , human rights , the rule of law , and liberty have been compromised severely all over the world . <p> To commemorate the tragedy , President Barack Obama was joined by former Presidents George W. Bush and Bill Clinton in solemn ceremonies at Ground Zero where the twin towers of the World Trade Centre once stood . Public ceremonies were also held in Washington where the Pentagon building had been targeted by the hijackers who had commandeered four passenger planes . The occasion was also used by the U.S. President and the political establishment to re-emphasise their commitment to an unceasing war against groups and countries that have been classified as enemies . The overriding theme as usual was that 9/11 had changed everything and that America would resolutely pursue its enemies until they were vanquished . But the results of an opinion poll by the Pew Research Centre , released on September 1 , reveal that Americans are divided on the anti-terror policies that Washington has pursued zealously since 9/11 . Only 25 per cent of Americans now feel that the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have decreased the terrorism threat . An overwhelming majority of those polled object to the government monitoring their mail and personal calls . <p> The world has witnessed widespread bloodshed and misery in the decade following September 11 . The Bush administration responded almost immediately by attacking Afghanistan and following it up with an invasion . Instead of a calibrated response , President Bush talked about a new crusade against the terror groups and states that Washington held responsible for the horrendous attacks targeting important landmarks . Instead of analysing the deep-rooted causes that led to the alienation of the Arab , and Muslim , world from the U.S. , the Bush administration preferred to use the September 11 attacks to advance short-term geostrategic goals . The U.S. occupation of Arab lands and the unsolved Palestinian issue were primary motivating factors for the terror groups . President Obama acknowledged the centrality of the Palestinian issue in his March 2009 speech in Cairo . However , since 9/11 , America 's support for Israel 's brutal occupation and expansion has only increased . <p> Afghanistan was the first country to face the wrath of the world 's only superpower . Wakil Ahmad Muttawakil , who was the Taliban 's Foreign Minister , reiterated in a recent interview that the Taliban government had offered to hand over Osama bin Laden to American authorities months before 9/11 but the U.S. authorities were indifferent to the offer . The Taliban government was among the first to commiserate with the U.S. government and people after the September 11 attacks . The Taliban and Al Qaeda have two distinct ideologies . The Taliban leadership had no problems about establishing diplomatic relations with the U.S. In the late 1990s , the Indian government too explored the possibility of establishing ties with the Taliban government in Kabul . The Taliban today projects itself as a defender of national sovereignty and as an organisation open to accommodation with other political groups . It , however , insists on the withdrawal of all foreign troops from Afghanistan before peace talks can start . <p> Unending war <p> The Bush administration , dominated as it was by neoconservatives , had come up with a blueprint to impose Pax Americana on the Islamic world , channelling the anger and revulsion of the American public against the attacks . Occupying Afghanistan was not much of a challenge for the American military . This task was accomplished within months after September 11 , albeit at a great cost to the civilian population in Afghanistan . Today , the Taliban is once again resurgent . On September 9 this year , a suicide attack was launched on a U.S./NATO military base in central Afghanistan . This was followed up by another suicide bombing and a 20-hour siege of the U.S. embassy and NATO headquarters in Kabul a few days later . Since 2009 , there have been , roughly , a thousand security-related incidents in Afghanistan . <p> Today , 10 years after 9/11 , more than 100,000 U.S. troops still remain in Afghanistan . Al Qaeda , as American officials themselves admit , has at the most only a handful of operatives left in the country . As recent events have shown , Al Qaeda 's power and influence have diminished significantly . Many American counterterrorism experts now say Al Qaeda was never an existential threat to the U.S. in the first place . A 2005 classified report of the Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) said that no sleeper Al Qaeda agents within the U.S. were identified after 9/11 . A report published by the RAND Corporation in early September concluded that despite the best efforts of Al Qaeda their numbers remain small , their determination limp , and their competence poor . <p> Many American commentators have said President Bush 's decision to go to war on September 12 , just days after 19 men from Saudi Arabia , Egypt and the United Arab Emirates ( UAE ) , armed only with box cutters , initiated the terror strikes on America , signalled the beginning of America 's unending war against most of the world . After 9/11 , America arrogated to itself the right to launch pre-emptive strikes on any country it perceived as a threat . The neoconservatives may be out of power , but the events of the last three years have shown that the Obama administration has continued with the imperial policies of the former administration . <p> SEPTEMBER 11 , 2001 : United Airlines Flight 175 approaches the south tower of the World Trade Centre in New York shortly before crashing into it even as smoke billows from the north tower after it was struck by hijacked American Airlines Flight 11. -ROBERT CLARK/AP <p> The U.S. war on terror today extends to Somalia , Pakistan and Yemen . America has been bombing Libya without the approval of Congress . Israel , with the tacit permission of the U.S. , has launched pre-emptive strikes against Lebanon , invaded Gaza and bombed Syria . America 's close allies such as Israel and Turkey and countries such as Russia and India have also demanded the right to stage pre-emptive strikes . In the wake of 9/11 , groups seeking autonomy or independence , such as the Kurds and the Chechens , have been tarred with the terror label and sought to be ostracised . <p> Condoleezza Rice , who was the National Security Adviser ( NSA ) at the time of the terror attacks , openly talked about the opportunities post-September 11 for American policymakers to reshape the world . She had said that the events were shifting the tectonic plates in international politics . She compared the period after September 11 , 2001 , to that of the immediate years following the Second World War , when the U.S. expanded its influence into Europe and beyond . The long Cold War between the U.S. and the Soviet Union started soon after . The U.S. fought wars in Korea and Vietnam , in which millions perished . <p> President Bush , who was intent on invading Iraq even before the events of 9/11 , increasingly started referring to Saddam Hussein and Iraq while talking of the Al Qaeda threat to America . There were efforts to link the Iraqi government with Al Qaeda activities despite the international community being aware of the fact that Saddam Hussein led a secular government that came down heavily on sectarian and terrorist activities . The invasions of Afghanistan and Iraq have so far led to the death of more than a million innocent civilians and displaced two million Iraqis and 200,000 Afghans . Around 7,500 U.S. soldiers have died so far in the wars America has launched since 2001 . <p> Arab resentment <p> The U.S. National Intelligence Estimate concluded in 2006 that the U.S. military involvement in Iraq was breeding deep resentment in the Arab world . The report concluded that activists identifying themselves with the cause of jehad had increased in both number and geographic dispersion . Since the beginning of the last decade , the number of suicide bombings has increased dramatically along with the use of improvised explosive devices ( IEDs ) . The expertise in bomb-making gained by those resisting the occupation in Iraq has been transferred to militant groups in the Indian subcontinent and other parts of the world . The dollar tag for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan for the U.S. has been pegged at $5 trillion so far . <p> The war in Afghanistan costs the American exchequer $8 billion a month . The military expenditure , according to many renowned economists , has contributed to the precipitous decline of the American economy . Joseph Stiglitz , the Nobel laureate and noted economist , who did a study on U.S. war expenses in Iraq and Afghanistan , warned way back in 2003 that a war in Iraq would impact adversely on education , health , research and the environment in the U.S. Stiglitz pointed out in a 2010 article that when the U.S. went to war in Iraq eight years earlier , the cost of oil was $25 a barrel . After the military intervention the price soared to reach $140 a barrel in 2008 . <p> Al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden , an undated file picture. -AFP <p> The huge fluctuations in oil price no doubt affected the U.S. , but it was more devastating to the economies of poor countries . People in the U.S. and many other countries now have to deal not only with the threat of terror but also with the threat of economic insecurity . The latest U.S. government figures released in the second week of September revealed that one out of every six Americans today lives below the official poverty line . In both Afghanistan and Iraq , the U.S. is preparing to wind down its military presence without achieving any of its major political goals . In Afghanistan , the very force it rushed in to eliminate the Taliban is all set to fill the political vacuum the American withdrawal will create . Afghanistan 's economy is in a shambles despite billions of dollars in aid money that came in after 2001 . After 10 years of occupation , Afghanistan continues to be the biggest producer of opium and a centre of the international narcotics trade . In Iraq , the government already has close and cordial ties with neighbouring Iran . Under Saddam Hussein , the two countries had fought an eight-year-long war . Washington has viewed Teheran as its major foe in the region since the Islamic Revolution of 1979 . <p> But the setbacks have not dampened America 's thirst for empire building . Stephen Walt , who teaches international relations at Harvard University , wrote recently that what is being witnessed is an alliance between U.S. neoconservatives and the so-called liberals currently led by Obama . The only important intellectual difference between neoconservatives and liberal interventionists is that the former have disdain for international institutions ( which they see as constraints on U.S. power ) and the latter see them as a useful way to legitimate American dominance . <p> During the Bush administration , suspected terrorists and sympathisers were picked up to be renditioned to third countries for waterboarding . After Obama took over , the preferred method has been targeted killings aided by the use of pilotless aircraft known as drones . It was after 9/11 that the U.S. embraced the drones , which have since then spread terror in many parts of the world , especially in Afghanistan and Pakistan . It was only in late 2001 that the Predator drone , which was until then used only for surveillance , was armed and made an assassination tool for the U.S. intelligence services and armed forces . <p> U.S. officials claim that more than 2,000 militants on their wanted list have been killed in drone attacks so far . According to media reports , the drone attacks have claimed more than a thousand innocent lives in Pakistan and Afghanistan . The Obama administration is now busy extending the assassination-by-drone campaign to Somalia and Yemen , where groups affiliated to Al Qaeda are present . Many in the U.S. have questioned the ethics involved in targeting people for assassination . The Central Intelligence Agency ( CIA ) had targeted world leaders such as Fidel Castro during the height of the Cold War , but after strong domestic criticism it adopted a more low-key policy on targeted killings , until the epochal events of 2001 . American drones were recently deployed in Libya , where repeated attempts were made to target the country 's leader , Muammar Qaddafi . <p> Qaddafi was among the Arab autocrats who supported America 's Global War on Terror . Many suspected Al Qaeda members were sent to Libyan prisons for special treatment . But the Arab Spring , which caught the international community by surprise , rang alarm bells in Western capitals . Many observers see a link between 9/11 and the current upheaval in the Arab world . <p> The first leaders who were ousted were the two staunchest allies of the U.S. , Hosni Mubarak in Egypt and Ben Ali in Tunisia . In these two countries , the governments , acting under American diktats , had introduced draconian laws to curb political activity . Besides , unpopular economic reforms were put in place at the behest of Western institutions . <p> In most of the countries impacted by the Arab Spring , it is the Muslim Brothers and its affiliates , the very forces the West wanted to control and curtail , that are in the forefront of the revolts . In Libya , former jehadists have occupied prominent positions after the capture of Tripoli by the rebels . <p> September 12 , 2011 , Tripoli : The burnt premises of the U.S. Embassy after it was attacked by Qaddafi loyalists. -SUHAIB SALEM/REUTERS <p> The Bush administration 's stated goal was to spread democracy in the region to counter extremism . In practice , however , Washington continued to be cosy with most of the authoritarian Arab rulers . Mubarak received billions of dollars from the U.S. ; Ben Ali maintained warm relations with France ; the Bahraini regime hosts the U.S. Navy ; the Saudis recently bought $70 billion worth of weapons from their American allies . Freedom and democracy are claimed by Islamic populations , while they have been withheld from them by allies of the West , wrote the Dutch academic Geert Sonsen in a recent article . <p> With the situation in the Arab world seemingly on the cusp of a change , the U.S. could in the near future have to deal with a more assertive bunch of leaders . Already , Israel has started facing the heat . As the violent protests in Egypt against Israel have shown , the popular mood has turned against America and its proxies in the region . The main priority of the Arab street is to see the back of the American army on their lands . America can not go on using the war on terror pretext forever to build military bases and occupy foreign lands . The blowback against Pax Americana may have begun despite the Obama administration 's efforts to hijack the Arab Spring and selectively effect regime change . A personal note : Among the innocents who perished in the 9/11 attack that demolished the twin towers in New York was my first cousin Joseph Mathai . He had come in from Boston on that fateful day and was finishing his breakfast at the Windows of the World Restaurant when the planes hit the towers head on . 
@@31500284 <h> Politics of a warrant <p> President Omar al-Bashir addressing a gathering in the North Darfur state capital , Al Fashr , on March 8. -NASSER NASSER/AP <p> THE arrest warrant issued by the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) on March 4 against President Omar al-Bashir of Sudan for crimes against humanity and war crimes in Darfur is viewed as a dangerous precedent by many in the international community . It is the first time that this kind of a warrant has been issued against a serving head of state , that too under such controversial circumstances . The warrant came even as the Government of Sudan and the important guerilla factions of Darfur were taking strides towards securing a peace deal in the battle-scarred region . <p> The government in Khartoum puts the death toll in Darfur since fighting erupted in 2003 at around 10,000 . The ICC and many human rights groups put the toll at around 300,000 . The ICC has no powers to enforce its arrest warrants , but those indicted by it can be arrested on the territory of those states that have signed up to the ICC statute . Luis Moreno-Ocampo , the ICC prosecutor who first called for an ICC warrant to be issued last year , said that Sudan was obliged under international law to carry out the arrest on its territory . Sudan is not a member of the ICC . <p> African nations rallied round Sudan as Bashir struck a defiant posture . Huge crowds rallied in support of their President in the capital , Khartoum , and other cities in the northern part of the country . We are telling the colonialists that we will not submit , Bashir told cheering supporters in Khartoum . The President urged his countrymen to carry out a jehad against the infidels , pointing out that arrest warrants had not been issued by the ICC against the Israeli leaders who committed crimes against humanity through the recent attack on Gaza . <p> Many Arab and African leaders have criticised the ICC and voiced their support for the Sudanese President . China too has criticised the move by the ICC . The Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman said that his country opposed any decision that impeded peace in Darfur . China expresses its regrets and worry over the arrest warrant for the Sudan President issued by the ICC , a Chinese Foreign Ministry statement said . The spokesman also urged the United Nations Security Council to respect calls by the African Union ( A.U. ) , the Arab League and the Non-Aligned Movement and call on the ICC not to hear the case for the time being . India , which has substantial business interests in Sudan , especially in the hydrocarbon sector , has been non-committal on the issue despite its long-standing ties with the country . <p> Only the United States and the European Union have expressed support for the ICCs momentous decision . The U.S. , China , Russia , India and Israel are among the countries that have not joined the ICC since its creation in 2002 . In fact , the U.S. under George W. Bush was one of the most vocal critics of the ICC , but because of Washingtons decades-old enmity with Khartoum , it did not cast its veto in the Security Council and allowed the ICC to go ahead with the prosecution of Bashir . <p> Sudan since the late 1980s has taken a principled stand on many foreign policy issues . It opposed the first Gulf War and has been a vocal supporter of the Palestinian cause . Sudan was targeted by American cruise missiles in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks on U.S. embassies in Nairobi and Dar es Salaam in 1998 . The ICC is now seen by many Sudanese as an instrument being used by the U.S. to get rid of a government it despises . <p> On the other hand , the U.S. has been using all its influence to see that Israeli leaders escape international justice . For that matter , the U.S. itself has committed far greater war crimes . The invasion of Iraq led to the death of more than 1.3 million people . The highest estimates of casualties in Darfur amount to only one-fourth of the casualties inflicted by U.S. forces in Iraq . In the so-called global war against terror , the U.S. has routinely resorted to torture , abductions and detention without trial . <p> The Security Council has the right to defer the warrant against Bashir . The governments in the region are speaking about the dangerous implications of the arrest warrant . Officials in the U.S. and in the E.U. headquarters in Brussels , Belgium , have also expressed their apprehension that the Sudanese government could once again revert to using military force in Darfur and that the peace deal with southern Sudan , which has been holding for the last three years , may also unravel . <p> General elections are scheduled to be held in Sudan this year , to be followed by a referendum in the south of the country on self-determination . The timing of the arrest warrant could derail these two democratic exercises . <p> Since the issue of the warrant , the joint U.N./A.U. peacekeeping force , known as UNAMID ( United Nations-African Union Mission in Darfur ) , has come under fire . Thirteen foreign relief agencies were expelled from Darfur in the first week of March . They were providing 4.7 million people in the region with food , water and medical aid . Thousands of people continue to stay in camps and are totally dependent on international agencies for sustenance . <p> The spokesman for Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak said that the ICC decision would have dangerous consequences for the Darfur region in particular and Sudan in general . The decision , he said , smacked of politicisation and selectivity . African and Arab states have been lobbying the Security Council to defer the case against Bashir indefinitely so that a solution to the conflict in Darfur could be expedited . China , which has intensive political and economic links with Sudan , could help out as it is a veto-wielding Security Council member . <p> In July 2002 , the Security Council gave U.S. troops a 12-month exemption from prosecution by the ICC that was renewable every year . The Bush administration had threatened to remove its peacekeepers from Bosnia if the exemption was not granted . But the Security Council refused to renew the exemption after the atrocities committed by U.S. troops in Iraq came to light in 2004 . <p> The A.U. , which held an emergency meeting after the ICC warrant was issued , stated that it would try to stop the execution of the warrant . The A.U. spokesman said that the organisation was deeply concerned at the far-reaching consequences of the act as it came at a critical juncture in the process to promote lasting peace in Sudan . Moses Wetangula , Kenyan Minister of Foreign Affairs , said that the operations of the ICC were very suspect and that some racial undertones could be detected in the manner in which the ICC handled African issues . Since its creation , the ICC has focussed almost exclusively on African leaders and warlords . <p> The A.U. meet was preceded by that of the Arab League . The Arab League emphasised in a statement that the need for a peaceful settlement of the Darfur issue was much more important than the ICCs arrest warrant . Arab League Secretary-General Amr Moussa met with Bashir after the warrant was issued . He said that the ICC decision had provoked anger within the Arab League . <p> The Sudanese government and the main rebel group in Darfur , the Justice and Equality Movement ( JEM ) , signed a goodwill agreement in the third week of February at a meeting hosted by Qatar . Both sides pledged to implement confidence-building measures ( CBMs ) in a bid to resolve the conflict . Within Sudan , only opposition leader Hassan al-Turabi and the Darfuri rebel groups supported the ICCs move . <p> Bashirs supporters holding pictures of chief International Criminal Court prosecutor Luis Moreno-Ocampo with the words , in Arabic , Liar , Liar , Traitor as they listen to Bashir on his visit to Al Fashr. -KHALED DESOUKI/AFP <p> Turabi , who was released from prison a few days after the arrest warrant was issued , has held on to his view that the Sudanese President is morally culpable for the conflict in Darfur . He urged Bashir to surrender to the ICC in order to save Sudan from more international sanctions and political turmoil . Turabi was Bashirs mentor at one time and was instrumental in his coming to power in a military coup in the late 1980s . Turabi , who is now 76 , was the eminence grise of the regime until he fell out with Bashir over ideological issues . <p> The Sorbonne-educated Turabi is acknowledged as one of the foremost Islamist intellectuals of his time . When this correspondent met Turabi in Khartoum after he was released from one of his periodic stints in jail three years ago , he was quite forthright in his views on Darfur and related issues . He said that Darfur became part of Sudan only after the country came under British tutelage and that it was a separate administrative unit under Ottoman rule . The JEM leadership is known to have close links with Turabi and his Popular National Congress Party , which is the main opposition party in Sudan . <p> The ruling National Congress Party leadership seems to be fully behind Bashir as he faces one of his biggest challenges . <p> Sadiq al-Mahdi , Turabis brother-in-law and a former Prime Minister of Sudan , spoke out in support of the beleaguered President though he was ousted in an Islamist-inspired military coup in 1989 led by none other than Bashir . Mahdi , the leader of the National Umma Party , said that the ICC warrant had endangered the sovereignty and unity of the country and that it was the duty of the Sudanese people to unite on the issue . 
@@31503376 <h> The Real Purpose of Trump 's Executive Order on Anti-Semitism <p> The President 's new order will not protect anyone against anti-Semitism , and it 's not intended to . Its sole aim is to quash the defense -- and even the discussion -- of Palestinian rights . <p> Photograph by Brendan Smialowski / AFP / Getty <p> Donald Trump has a knack for taking some of humanity 's most problematic ideas and turning them on their head to make them even worse . He has done it again . On Wednesday , he signed an executive order that will allow federal funds to be withheld from colleges where students are not protected from anti-Semitism -- using an absurdly defined version of what constitutes anti-Semitism . Recent precedent and the history of legislative efforts that preceded the executive order would suggest that its main targets are campus groups critical of Israeli policies . What the order itself did not make explicit , the President 's son-in-law did : on Wednesday , Jared Kushner published an Op-Ed in the Times in which he stressed that the definition of anti-Semitism used in the executive order " makes clear what our administration has stated publicly on the record : Anti-Zionism is anti-Semitism . " <p> Both Kushner and the executive order refer to the definition of anti-Semitism that was formulated , in 2016 , by the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance ; it has since been adopted by the State Department . The definition supplies examples of anti-Semitism , and Kushner cited the most problematic of these as the most important : " the targeting of the state of Israel , conceived as a Jewish collectivity " ; denial to " the Jewish people their right to self-determination , e.g. by claiming that the existence of a state of Israel is a racist endeavor " ; and comparing " contemporary Israeli policy to that of the Nazis . " All three examples perform the same sleight of hand : they reframe opposition to or criticism of Israeli policies as opposition to the state of Israel . And that , says Kushner , is anti-Semitism . <p> To be sure , some people who are critical of Israeli policies are opposed to the existence of the state of Israel itself . And some of those people are also anti-Semites . I am intimately familiar with this brand of anti-Semitism , because I grew up in the Soviet Union , where anti-Zionist rhetoric served as the propaganda backbone of state anti-Semitism . The word " Zionist , " when deployed by Pravda , served as incitement to violence and discrimination against Soviet Jews . All of this can be true at the same time that it is also true that Israel has effectively created an apartheid state , in which some Palestinians have some political rights and the rest have none . Human-rights organizations such as Breaking the Silence and B'Tselem -- Israeli groups , founded and run by Jews -- continue to document harrowing abuse of Palestinians in Israel , the occupied West Bank , and Gaza . <p> In August , I went on a tour designed by Breaking the Silence that aims to show Israelis and foreigners what the occupation looks like . This particular tour ended in a Palestinian village which has been largely overtaken by an Israeli settlement that is illegal under international law . One of the Palestinian houses ended up on territory claimed by the settlers , so the settlers built a chain-link cage around the house , the yard , and the driveway . A young Palestinian child , who is growing up in a house inside a cage , waved to us through the fencing . Comparing this sort of approach to Nazi policies may not make for the most useful argument , but it is certainly not outlandish . The memory of the Holocaust stands as a warning to humanity about the dangers of dehumanizing the other -- and invoking that warning in Palestine is warranted . <p> One does not have to be an anti-Semite to be an anti-Zionist , but one certainly can be both an anti-Semite and an anti-Zionist . Trump , however , has inverted this formula by positioning himself as a pro-Zionist anti-Semite . He has proclaimed his support often for the state of Israel . His Administration 's policies , which have included moving the U.S. Embassy to Jerusalem and , more recently , declaring that the U.S. does not view Israeli settlements in the West Bank as illegal , have pleased the state of Israel , especially its most militantly expansionist citizens . Over the weekend , however , at the Israeli American Council National Summit , in Florida , Trump gave a speech that brimmed with Jewish stereotypes : Jews and greed , Jews and money , Jews as ruthless wheeler-dealers . " A lot of you are in the real estate business because I know you very well , " he said . " You 're brutal killers , not nice people at all . " It was the kind of stuff that requires no definitions , op-eds , or explanations -- it was plain , easily recognizable anti-Semitism . And it was not the first time that Trump trafficked in anti-Semitic stereotypes . The world view behind these stereotypes , combined with support for Israel , is also recognizable . To Trump , Jews -- including American Jews , some of whom vote for him -- are alien beings whom he associates with the state of Israel . He finds these alien beings at once distasteful and worthy of a sort of admiration , perhaps because he ascribes to them many of the features that he also recognizes in himself . <p> It should come as no surprise that anti-Semitic incidents in the U.S. increased by sixty per cent during the first year of Trump 's Presidency , according to the Anti-Defamation League . The current year is on track to set a record for the number of anti-Semitic attacks . The latest appears to have occurred on Tuesday , when shooters reportedly connected to a fringe group targeted a kosher supermarket in Jersey City , killing four people . <p> The new executive order will not protect anyone against anti-Semitism , and it 's not intended to . Its sole aim is to quash the defense -- and even the discussion -- of Palestinian rights . Its victim will be free speech . <h> Video <p> Why Hong Kong 's Protests Exploded <p> After six months of unrest , anti-Beijing protesters are increasingly unwilling to compromise . With fierce and sometimes violent debate redefining the region , where will the movement end up ? Jiayang Fan reports . 
@@31504183 <p> Journalist and anchor Jake Tapper has gone from drawing cartoons to holding presidents to account . <p> Tapper is CNN 's man . He hosts " The Lead " every weeknight , " State of the Union " on Sunday mornings , and he 's the network 's chief Washington correspondent . <p> Despite the success , he did n't take a traditional path to journalism . After university , in his years of " misery and woe , " he tried public relations and politics , before writing as a freelancer . He finally became a full-time journalist five years after graduating . Since then he 's steadily ascended , from print to television , to become one of the most recognizable journalists in the country . <p> Tapper values truth , transparency , honesty , and kindness , according to interviews . He 's naturally skeptical and , to remain neutral , he does n't vote . He 's known for his dogged interviews and he 's said it 's not always the answer that matters , sometimes the questions are more important . <p> As Politico 's media columnist Jack Shafer said , he could be the best current television interviewer in the US , and " he 's probably the only genuine romantic in TV news . " <p> Here 's his life so far . <h> Jake Tapper was born on Staten Island in New York on March 12 , 1969 . <p> He grew up in Philadelphia , in a " hippy " household , but one that was focused on what was right and wrong . His parents divorced in 1977 and he lived between Merion and Queen village . The divorce helped him see things from both perspectives . <h> He went to school at Akiba Hebrew Academy , now called Jack M. Barrack Hebrew Academy , and was editor of the school paper . Here , he addresses graduates in 2012 . <h> He wanted to be a political cartoonist like Garry Trudeau . <p> Tapper was inspired by Trudeau , who created the Doonesbury comic , which covered things like the Vietnam war , homosexuality , and racism . <p> Tapper 's first major cartoon was in the senior yearbook . It was particularly memorable since , when the book was folded in a certain way , it revealed male genitals . When the prank was discovered he was suspended and forced to do community service , but he still graduated in 1987 . <h> As a senior , Tapper interned for Ed Rendell who was running to be mayor of Philadelphia . <h> Tapper went to Dartmouth University . He joined and then quickly left the Alpha Chi Alpha fraternity , as the drinking and sexism made him uncomfortable . <p> Instead , he kept himself busy with a daily comic strip called Static Cling , which did n't pull punches and made fun of all -- football players , feminists , protesters , fraternities and the administration . He graduated from Dartmouth University in 1991 , with a degree in history and art . <h> He enrolled in film school at USC School of Cinematic Arts in Los Angeles . <h> After that , he began to work for Marjorie Margolies , a family friend , who was running or congress . <p> Once she was elected , he continued to work for her as a press secretary . But he found politics depressing . Margolies said she loved his humor -- one memory that stood out was when Tapper photocopied the face of an " annoying " volunteer and hid her face in unexpected places around the office . <h> In 1994 , he began contributing to Roll Call with a cartoon strip called " Capitol Hell . " <h> For three years he worked at a public relations firm called Powell Tate , and in 1997 he worked as a spokesman for Handgun Control , a gun control group . <p> He calls these his years of misery and woe . He told Politico , " That was goatees and American Spirit cigarettes and ' What am I going to do with my life ? ' kind of thing . ' On the Road ' in my back pocket . I wish this was a joke . I wish I was just trying to describe how BuzzFeed would describe a stereotype from the ' 90s , but that actually was me . " <h> While on a ski trip to Vermont he read a story in the New Republic , which he idolized , written by a young freelancer , and he had an epiphany . <h> His first full-time journalism job was at Washington City Paper . <p> He was mentored by his editor David Carr , who convinced Tapper to abandon PR and its paychecks . Carr taught Tapper a lot . When he died in 2015 , Tapper wrote about how he 'd once misattributed a quote and Carr had not been afraid to let Tapper know it was unacceptable . <p> " While I ca n't say I 've never made a mistake in the 20 years since , I will say that I hear his voice all the time in my head when I 'm making sure that what we 're doing on the show is right , " Tapper said . <h> In 1998 , he published his first cover story called " I Dated Monica Lewinsky , " about a date he went on with Monica Lewinsky , several weeks after her affair with then-President Bill Clinton hit the news cycle . <p> Former White House intern , Monica Lewinsky leaves the family home in the Brentwood section of Los Angeles , May 26 , 1998 . AP Photo/Nick Ut <h> In 1999 , he published his first book " Body Slam : The Jesse Ventura Story , " about the former wrestler-turned-governor of Minnesota . <p> Jesse Ventura . Business Insider <p> The book shows Tapper 's interest is more in policies and facts rather than the gruesome or salacious . He told the Washington City Paper in 1999 , " I do n't care about prostitutes or when he lost his virginity , and I do n't think anybody else does , either . " But according to the paper , Ventura 's competing book was , at least then , selling a lot better . <h> After three years he left Washington City Paper to become the Washington Correspondent for Salon . <h> In 2004 , he spoke with Columbia Journalism Review about the move from print journalism to broadcasting . <p> He said anyone who did n't miss greater depth , wider coverage , and more output should n't have been a print journalist in the first place . But he liked television -- it could make stories more compelling , reached more people , there were more resources , and information was easier to access . <h> In 2004 , he met his future wife Jennifer Marie Brown in Des Moines , during the presidential caucus . <h> The day after the 2008 presidential election , Tapper was named ABC 's senior White House correspondent . <p> It was there he learned the tougher the question he had to ask , the calmer the delivery had to be . He was described as " famously scrappy , " and his relentless grilling of White House spokespersons was an entertaining part of the briefings . <h> As ABC 's senior White House correspondent , Tapper interacted a lot with former President Barack Obama . <p> And Tapper is sure Obama did not like him . He says he was a pain in Obama 's ass and did not " drink the Kool-Aid . " He also said the media were more supportive of Obama than they are of Trump , and because of that , the former president got away with a lot . <h> Despite his hard work , Tapper was passed over for host of ABC 's " This Week , " a Sunday morning news show , in 2010 and again in 2012 . <h> In 2012 , he published " The Outpost : An Untold Story of American Valor . " <p> Randy Sager Photography Inc/ABC News <p> It 's the book he 's most proud of and it took him years to write . It also opened his eyes to the military . <p> He told Dartmouth Alumni Magazine , after interviewing two soldiers he came home and said to his wife Jennifer , " I 've sacrificed nothing . All I 've done is pursue my own self-interests and tried to get ahead in the world for myself . And look at these guys -- these are the guys who should get the attention . " And his wife reminded him that it was his role to write their story . <h> From 2015 on , he 's become one of CNN 's go-to election debate hosts . <h> In 2016 , he asked then-presidential candidate Donald Trump 23 times whether comments he made about a federal judge were racist . <p> CNN <p> According to Vogue , this was when " it began " for Tapper . Trump would play a big part in Tapper 's career . Since joining CNN , he 'd covered the Israel-Gaza War , the Paris terrorist attacks , and the Boston bombing . But despite all of the reporting , it was n't until Trump entered the ring that Tapper began to come into his own and become a " viral sensation . " <h> In 2017 , Tapper started to have what GQ called the " Jake Tapper Moment . " <p> Tapper says he 's always been a " pain in the butt to people in power , " but in 2017 people were beginning to notice it . According to New York Times ' media columnist Jim Rutenberg , Tapper 's blunt delivery and fact-checking were cathartic for his audience . " They 're all so anxious and they want to see a lie called a lie so badly . " <p> Tapper said it was nice to be recognized , but he realized it might not last . " A lot of people who are happy with me now are not going to be happy with me in four to eight years . " <h> In January 2017 , in response to Trump 's advisor Steve Bannon telling media to keep its mouth shut , Tapper opened his show with one word : " no . " <h> And he was mocked for it on Saturday Night Live . <p> In the skit , based on Fatal Attraction , Conway broke into Tapper 's house , trying to get an interview . <p> His wife thought it was sexist , but Tapper was impressed to be a subject fit to mock . " When you look at SNL 's history of satirizing politicians and reporters , I feel very lucky . Beck Bennett is younger and handsomer than me . I feel like I got off scot-free , especially in comparison to Sean Spicer . " <h> In January 2018 , he had a combative interview with Stephen Miller , one of the president 's advisers . <p> Senior policy adviser Stephen Miller on CNN . CNN <p> Memorably , he ended the interview , saying enough of CNN 's viewers time had been wasted . But Miller was n't done and he was so worked up , he had to be escorted off the premises , Business Insider reported . <h> Along with his focus on facts , Tapper 's become known for the faces he pulls . <p> Jake Tapper . Screenshot/CNN <p> As Samantha Bee tweeted after his interview with Kellyanne Conway , " We are all the crease between Jake Tapper 's eyes . " But according to his childhood friend Uri Monson , he 's been pulling iconic faces since high school . <h> Since Trump became president , Tapper 's said he 's been reminded a journalist 's job is to take a stand over facts , truth , and human decency . <p> In a speech he gave in 2018 , he said it was time to stand up for what was right . " If standing up for truth and decency is speaking truth to power , then so be it -- but let 's make sure that we speak it consistently to everyone in power . " <p> It does n't look like his job will get easier anytime soon . But he is n't feeling cynical about politics . Instead , he sees the current political climate as a chance to bring people with different political views together . 
@@31523386 <p> BETHLEHEM -- British street artist Banksy has brought a somber Christmas spirit to a hotel he founded in the West Bank town of Bethlehem , with a nativity scene evoking the Palestinian-Israeli conflict . <p> Titled Scar of Bethlehem , the display features a miniature Jesus , Mary and Joseph under a rendition of Israel 's concrete West Bank barrier punctured by bullet holes , the largest of which resembles a star over the manger . <p> It is located in The Walled Off Hotel , which abuts the real barrier , and which the secretive Banksy opened in 2017 . <p> Wisam Salsa , general manager of the Walled Off hotel , shows " scar of Bethlehem " artwork by street artist Banksy , in Bethlehem in the Israeli-occupied West Bank December 22 , 2019 . MUSSA ISSA QAWASMA / REUTERS <p> " Christmas ( is ) known ( for ) the Star of Bethlehem , that led people to the birthplace of Jesus , " said hotel manager Wisam Salsa . " You see there is a scar , there is a hole on the wall that marks the wall and the life in Bethlehem how it is today . " <p> A man takes pictures of an artwork dubbed Scar of Bethlehem by street artist Banksy in the Walled Off hotel , in Bethlehem in the Israeli-occupied West Bank December 22 , 2019 . MUSSA ISSA QAWASMA / REUTERS <p> Israel says the barrier that cuts through the West Bank is a bulwark against Palestinian suicide bombers . Palestinians see it as a symbol of oppression in Israeli-occupied land they want for a state . <p> Arnaud Lucien , a tourist from France , saw hope in the art . <p> The Walled Off Hotel and a section of the Israeli barrier in Bethlehem in the Israeli-occupied West Bank.MUSSA ISSA QAWASMA / REUTERS <p> " It 's a scene , a biblical scene which is turned political , " he said . " And the message is very interesting because the message of peace is done for Palestinians and Israelis , and I think it 's a very nice piece of art . " <p> In the centre of Bethlehem , which is revered as the birthplace of Jesus , pilgrims and tourists from all over the world were flocking to Manger Square in the build-up to Christmas on Dec. 25 . <p> Many posed for photographs in front of a large crib and Christmas tree erected in front of the Church of the Nativity , eating candy floss and buying red and white hats from a Palestinian dressed as Santa Claus . <p> Christians make up around 1 per cent of the Palestinian population in the West Bank , Gaza Strip and East Jerusalem . <p> And below are a few of Banksy works displayed inside the Walled Off Hotel . <h> This Week 's Flyers <h> Comments <p> Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles . Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site . We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful . We have enabled email notifications -- you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment , there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments . Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings . 
@@31526886 <h> New Zealand mosque attack : Who were the victims ? <p> Here are the stories of the Muslim worshippers confirmed dead in the mass shootings at two mosques in Christchurch . <p> 22 Mar 2019 17:34 GMT <p> They were teachers , engineers and accountants . Some were born in New Zealand , while others had migrated to the Pacific Island decades ago , fleeing conflict or seeking a better life . <p> Many died while trying to protect others , according to family members . <p> Officials in New Zealand have started releasing some of the names of the 50 Muslim worshippers who were shot dead by an attacker on Friday at two mosques in Christchurch , while diplomats from around the world have identified 29 of them . <p> Some of those named were New Zealand natives , while others hailed from Afghanistan , Pakistan , Bangladesh , Indonesia , India and Egypt . <p> Here 's what we know so far about the victims of the gun assault , which authorities described as a " well-planned terrorist attack " . <p> 190318125443038 <h> Mucaad Ibrahim , 3 <p> At three years old , Mucaad Ibrahim was the youngest victim of the mosque shootings . <p> He was born in New Zealand to Somali parents . The toddler was separated from his father , Adnan Ibrahim . and brother , Abdi , in the chaos that ensued following the attack , reported the Associated Press news agency . <p> " He was a Muslim-born Kiwi who was full of energy , love and happiness , " said his family in a statement . " He is remembered in our community as a young boy who emanated nothing but the representation of God 's love and peace . " <p> Mucaad Ibrahim was laid to rest in a mass burial at the Memorial Park Cemetery in Linwood , along with 25 other victims of the attacks . The ceremony took place on Friday , March 22 . <p> HE HAS A NAME : 3-year-old Mucaad Ibrahim was murdered at the Al Noor Mosque in Christchurch , New Zealand on Friday , March 15 . <p> He was the youngest victim of the terrorist attack that killed 51 people and injured more than 50 others . **26;1906;TOOLONG <h> Naeem Rashid , 51 <p> Naeem Rashid , originally from Abbottabad in Pakistan , was " badly wounded " at the Al Noor mosque after he tried " overpowering the shooter " , the Ministry of Overseas Pakistanis said in a series of Twitter posts . <p> He was rushed to the hospital , but lost his life " due to indiscriminate firing " , the ministry added . Video footage of the shooting showed Rashid trying to stop the gunman , according to family members . <p> Rashid 's oldest son , Talha Naeem , was also killed in the attack while trying to protect others , they said . <p> " My husband and my son ... were brave people . " <p> Naeem Rashid and his son were both killed during the New Zealand mosque mass shootings . Al Jazeera spoke to their family . **26;1934;TOOLONG <h> Talha Naeem , 21 <p> Khurshid Alam , Rashid 's brother , told Anadolu news agency that his nephew had recently completed an engineering degree in New Zealand . <p> " I spoke to my brother last week and he was planning to come to Pakistan to arrange his son 's marriage ceremony . But now we lost both of them , " Alam said . <p> A Pakistani man who tried to stop the gunman who opened fire in a mosque packed with worshippers is being remembered as a hero . Naeem Rashid , 50 , originally from Abbottabad , was in the mosque with his 21-year-old son , Talha Naeem ( presumably dead ) , for Friday prayers . **26;1962;TOOLONG <p> Describing Talha 's death , Naeema Khan , his aunt , told Al Jazeera : " When Talha got shot , he fell on another boy and whispered to him to stay still . When the gunman left , the boy got up , alive , from under him . " <p> Khan said Talha was a " role model for the younger generation " . <p> Talha 's 19-year-old brother , Abdullah Naeem , said : " He Talha loved taking risks and I was always very scared , but because of him I realised that sometimes you should take risks in life to achieve something more . " <p> Talha and his father were laid to rest in a mass burial at the Memorial Park Cemetery in Linwood , along with 24 other victims of the attacks . The ceremony took place on Friday , March 22 . <h> Haji Daoud Nabi , 71 <p> Afghanistan 's embassy in Canberra , the Australian capital , confirmed Haji Daoud Nabi 's death in a Facebook post on Saturday . The 71-year-old grandfather was among the first victims to be identified . <p> Born in Afghanistan , Nabi had fled the country in 1979 to escape the Soviet invasion , his son , Omar Nabi , told Al Jazeera . <p> 190316065121065 <p> In Christchurch , he ran a group called the Afghan Association to help refugees start new lives . <p> Nabi , an engineer , is survived by four sons , one daughter and nine grandchildren who he loved " immensely " , Omar said over the telephone . <p> Earlier in the day , Nabi 's 43-year-old son told reporters in Christchurch that his father was killed after " he jumped in the firing line to save somebody else 's life " . <p> Yama Nabi , Omar 's brother , told reporters that his father was " a very humble man who has helped a lot of people . " <p> Omar Nabi speaks to the media about losing his father , Haji Daoud Nabi , in the mosque attacks , at the District Court in Christchurch Edgar Su/Reuters <h> Muhammad Abdus Samad , 66 <p> Originally from Madhur Hailla village in Bangladesh 's Kurigram district , Abdus Samad was among two people of Bangladeshi origin who died in the Christchurch attacks , according to Shahriar Alam , the country 's state minister for foreign affairs . <p> Born on February 23 , 1953 , Samad worked as a lecturer in Bangladesh 's Agricultural Development Corporation . He retired in December 2012 and moved to New Zealand with his wife and two sons the following year , according to a family member . <p> After obtaining citizenship in New Zealand , Samad worked as a visiting professor at the Lincoln University in Christchurch . <p> His brother , Habibur Rahman , told Al Jazeera that Samad used to lead prayers at Al Noor mosque . <p> " He was a very pious person , " Rahman said from Kurigram . <p> Samad was laid to rest in a mass burial at the Memorial Park Cemetery in Linwood , along with 25 other victims of the attacks . The ceremony took place on Friday , March 22 . <h> Husna Ahmed , 45 <p> Husna Ahmed , originally from northeastern Sylhet district in northeastern Bangladesh , was killed while trying to shield her wheelchair-bound husband , according to her nephew , Mahfuj Chowdhury . <p> Citing witnesses , Chowdhury told Al Jazeera : " Like other Fridays , Ahmed took her husband to the mosque and left him in the men 's section which is separate from the women 's section . Immediately after hearing the sounds of shooting , she rushed towards the men 's section and tried to save her husband . Then she was hit by a bullet . " <h> Khalid Mustafa , 44 <p> Syrian refugee Khalid Mustafa was among the first five victims to be buried . <p> The 44-year-old had moved to New Zealand with his family in 2018 , after spending five years as refugees in Jordan , his wife told New Zealand radio . <p> Salwa Mustafa said he was a horse farrier and trainer in Syria . <p> " When we were asking about New Zealand ... they said it 's most the safest country in the world , the most wonderful country you can go ... but it was n't , " she told the radio . <p> His son , Hamza was killed in the attack and was also buried on March 20 . Another son , 13-year-old Zaed , was wounded in the arm and the leg during the attack . <p> CHRISTCHURCH SHOOTING : Khalid Mustafa and his 15yo son Hamza moved to Christchurch 10 months ago , fleeing war torn Syria . They were killed on Friday , in a country they thought would be safe . The pair were the first to be buried . **32;1990;TOOLONG <h> Hamza Mustafa , 16 <p> Salwa told Radio New Zealand Hamza was a talented horse rider and had celebrated his 16th birthday two days before the shooting . He was on the phone with her at the time of the assault . <p> " He said , ' Mom , there 's someone in the mosque shooting us ' , " she told Radio New Zealand . " They were running , and after that I hear shooting , and he screamed very loud . " <p> She said she waited on the line for 22 minutes until someone took the phone and told her Hamza was dead . <p> During the funeral on March 20 , Hamza 's high school principal described the student as compassionate and hardworking , and said he aspired to be a veterinarian , said the AP . <h> Junaid Ismail , 36 <p> Junaid Ismail was among the five people confirmed dead by authorities in New Zealand . <p> The 36-year-old , born in New Zealand to Indian parents , is survived by his wife and three young children , aged between five and three years old , according to the Herald . <p> He ran a dairy shop in Christchurch along with his twin brother , Zahid Ismail , who survived the shooting . <h> Mohsen Al Harbi , 63 <p> Mohsen Al Harbi , originally from Saudi Arabia , had lived in New Zealand for 25 years , according to Stuff . He worked in water desalination . <p> His wife , Manal , had a heart attack while searching for him in the wake of the attack , and was hospitalised . <p> New Zealand police said he was killed at the Al Noor mosque , where his family said he sometimes gave sermons after the noon prayers on Friday . <h> Areeb Ahmed , 26 <p> Areeb Ahmed , a 26-year-old chartered accountant , had recently moved from Karachi , Pakistan , for a job in New Zealand to help support his family , AP said . <p> Pakistan 's Ministry of Foreign Affairs said he was among the nine Pakistanis confirmed to have been killed in Christchurch . His body is expected to arrive in Karachi in the coming days , according to AP . <p> One of Ahmed 's uncles , Muhammad Muzaffar Khan , described him as deeply religious , praying five times a day . " He had gone to New Zealand recently where he got his job . He had only started his career , but the enemies took his life , " Khan told AP . <p> A relative shows the picture of Areeb Ahmed on his mobile phone outside his home in Karachi , Pakistan Fareed Khan/AP <p> In a Facebook post , PwC New Zealand , Ahmed 's employer , said the accountant was a " loved and respected " member of staff . " His smile , warmth , dedication , respect and humour will be deeply missed , " the company said . <h> Lilik Abdul Hamid , 58 <p> Indonesia 's foreign ministry said its citizen , Lilik Abdul Hamid , was among the dozens who died in the mosque shootings . <p> Air New Zealand , the country 's national carrier , said Hamid was an aircraft maintenance engineer with the company and had been " a valued part of our engineering team in Christchurch for 16 years " . <p> Hamid is survived by his wife Nina , and two children , Zhania and Gerin . <p> His daughter , Zhania , told Radio New Zealand that her father had a passion for engines . " I never thought about fixing anything ... because dad always did it . His passion has always been with all things engines , not just aircraft . " <h> Muhammad Ata Elayyan , 33 <p> Muhammad Ata Elayyan was the goalkeeper for New Zealand 's national men 's futsal team . <p> The Palestinian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Expatriates said the 33-year-old was among six people of Palestinian origin who were killed in the Christchurch attacks . <p> Born in Kuwait , Elayyan recently became a father and was a popular member of the Christchurch tech industry , according to the New Zealand Herald . He cofounded the tech company , LWA Solutions , and was its CEO . <p> Kyle Wisnewski , Elayyan 's friend , paid tribute in a post on Twitter . " My heart is broken , a role model to myself and so many in the futsal community , " he wrote , adding : " You wo n't ever meet a more down to earth , humbling person . " <p> Josh Margett , New Zealand 's futsal development manager , offered condolences to Elayyan 's family on Twitter . " We are deeply sorry for your loss , " he wrote . <p> Muhammad Ata Elayyan was laid to rest in a mass burial at the Memorial Park Cemetery in Linwood , along with 25 other victims of the attacks . The ceremony took place on Friday , March 22 . <p> QUOTE : @MainlandFooty CEO Julian Bowden on @attaelayyan . " Atta was a popular member of the Canterbury United family . We are in a state of shock with this news . On behalf of everyone at Mainland Football , we reiterate what many have said that this is not our New Zealand . " **34;2024;TOOLONG <h> Jahandad Ali , 34 <p> Pakistan 's foreign ministry said Jahandad Ali from Lahore was among the nine Pakistanis killed in the mosque shootings . <p> The 34-year-old software engineer worked for the tech company Intergen . <p> Offering condolences to Ali 's wife , Amna , and his three children , the company 's CEO Simon Bright said Ali was a " highly respected and beloved colleague " . <h> Haroon Mahmood , 40 <p> Haroon Mahmood , from Pakistan 's capital , Islamabad , was also killed in the gun assaults , according to the Pakistani foreign ministry . <p> He had worked in banking in Pakistan before moving to New Zealand , according to the Herald . He was the assistant academic director of Canterbury College in Christchurch , and is survived by his wife and two children aged 13 and 11 , the website reported . <p> Haroon Mahmood was laid to rest in a mass burial at the Memorial Park Cemetery in Linwood , along with 25 other victims of the attacks . The ceremony took place on Friday , March 22 . <h> Amjad Hamid , 57 <p> Amjad Hamid , confirmed dead in the Christchurch attacks by Palestine 's Ministry of Foreign Affairs , had migrated to New Zealand 23 years ago to find a better future , a family member told the New Zealand Herald . <p> His wife , Hanan , described the heart doctor as a " very kind man " . <p> " We were hoping to find a better future for us , " she said . " It 's hard to talk about him . " <p> Hamid 's 20-year-old son Mohammed Hamid told the Herald he wanted to say only one thing : " I just really loved my dad . " <p> The Brisbane Times said Hamid was " well liked for his kindness , compassion and sense of humour " and would often take fresh baklava to his colleagues at the Hawera Hospital . <p> He was laid to rest in a mass burial at the Memorial Park Cemetery in Linwood , along with 25 other victims of the attacks . The ceremony took place on Friday , March 22 . <h> Osama Adnan Abukwaik , 37 <p> The Palestinian Ministry of Foreign Affairs said Osama Adnan Abukwaik , who was of Palestinian origin , had died in the mosque attacks . <p> The New Zealand Herald said the 37-year-old father of three had previously lived in Egypt and was in the process of applying for citizenship in the country when he was killed . The Brisbane Times said Abukwaik was from the Gaza Strip . <p> He was laid to rest in a mass burial at the Memorial Park Cemetery in Linwood , along with 25 other victims of the attacks . The ceremony took place on Friday , March 22 . <h> Muhammad Suhail Shahid , 36 <p> Muhammad Suhail Shahid died in the mosque attacks in New Zealand , said Pakistan 's foreign ministry . <p> His elder brother , Mohammad Nabeel Shahid , told the AP : " He left Pakistan in 2017 and he has two daughters , the eldest is Wajeha and the youngest Naira , both were very close to their father . " <p> Muhammad Suhail Shahid was laid to rest in a mass burial at the Memorial Park Cemetery in Linwood , along with 25 other victims of the attacks . The ceremony took place on Friday , March 22 . <h> Abdelfattah Qassem , 60 <p> The Palestinian Ministry of Foreign Affairs said Abdelfattah Qassem , of Palestinian origin , was killed in the shootings . The New Zealand Herald said the 60-year-old was the former secretary of the Muslim Association in Christchurch . <p> His friend , Shihadeh Nasasrah , told the AP Qassem was from the town of Arabeh in the West Bank . <p> The IT specialist had worked in Kuwait for much of his life Stuff reported , and moved to New Zealand in the early 1990s after the first Gulf War . He is survived by his wife and three daughters , one of whom was due to give birth to his first grandchild next month , Stuff said . <p> Mustafa Al-Asaad , a relative , described Qassem as an " elder for the community " , known for helping newcomers to Christchurch . <p> He was laid to rest in a mass burial at the Memorial Park Cemetery in Linwood , along with 25 other victims of the attacks . The ceremony took place on Friday , March 22 . <h> Ali Mah 'd Abdullah Elmadani , 66 <p> Ali Mah 'd Abdullah Elmadani , a retired electrical engineer , migrated from the United Arab Emirates to New Zealand in 1998 , according to Stuff , a local news website . He was at the Al Noor mosque at the time of the gun assault . <p> The Palestinian Ministry of Foreign Affairs said Elmadani was among the six people of Palestinian origin killed in the Christchurch attacks . <p> His daughter , Maha Elmadani , described him as " gentle and kind " , according to the New Zealand Herald . <p> He was laid to rest in a mass burial at the Memorial Park Cemetery in Linwood , along with 25 other victims of the attacks . The ceremony took place on Friday , March 22 . <p> 190317120800788 <h> Kamel Mohd Kamal Kamel Darwish , 38 <p> Kamel Darwish , a father of three , was among the six people of Palestinian origin shot dead in the Christchurch mosque attacks , according to Palestine 's Ministry of Foreign Affairs . <p> The Brisbane Times said the 38-year-old had migrated to New Zealand from Jordan about six months ago to join his older brother , Zuhair Darwish . <p> Kamel Darwish 's wife and three young children had applied for a visa to join him , according to the Australian newspaper . " He was very honest and caring , " Zuhair Darwish was quoted as saying . <p> Kamel Mohd Kamal Kamel Darwish was laid to rest in a mass burial at the Memorial Park Cemetery in Linwood , along with 25 other victims of the attacks . The ceremony took place on Friday , March 22 . <p> 190316150024125 <h> Maheboob Khokhar , 65 <p> In a Twitter post on Saturday , the Indian embassy in New Zealand said Maheboob Khokhar , an Indian national , was killed in the mosque attacks . <p> The 65-year-old was a retired manager at a Gujarat power station and was in Christchurch to visit his 27-year-old son Imran Khokar , Reuters news agency reported . It was Khokhar 's first time visiting the country , and he was due to fly back to Indian on Sunday with his wife , Akhtar Begum . <p> His son , who migrated to New Zealand in 2010 , had just dropped off Khokhar at the Al Noor mosque and was still in the parking lot when he heard the screams , according to Reuters . <p> Khokhar was a " humble and jolly man " , his friend , Tajuddin Pawar , told the Ahmedabad Mirror . <h> Arif Mohamedali Vohra , 58 <p> Arif Mohamedali Vohra , named among the dead by India 's embassy in New Zealand , had gone to Christchurch to visit his son and meet his new grandchild a month ago , AFP news agency said , citing his brother , Mohsin Vora . <p> The 56-year-old was from the Indian state of Gujarat . <p> He was laid to rest in a mass burial at the Memorial Park Cemetery in Linwood , along with 25 other victims of the attacks . The ceremony took place on Friday , March 22 . <h> Ramiz Arif Bhai Vora , 28 <p> Vohra 's son , Ramiz Arif Bhai Vora , was also killed in the mosque shootings , the Indian embassy said . <p> He was laid to rest in a mass burial at the Memorial Park Cemetery in Linwood , along with 25 other victims of the attacks . The ceremony took place on Friday , March 22 . <h> Ansi Alibava , 23 <p> The Indian embassy in New Zealand said Ansi Alibava was also among those killed . <p> The Indian Express newspaper said the 23-year-old , who was from the southern state of Kerala , moved to New Zealand a year ago with her husband , Abdul Nazar . They had married in 2017 . <p> Alibava studied agriculture at Lincoln University , while her husband worked at a supermarket in Christchurch , the newspaper reported . Nazar was praying at a separate mosque at the time of the attack , according to Indian media reports . <p> I received word from several sources that Ansi Alibava , 25 , is one of the 51 victims . <h> Ozair Kadir , 25 <p> The fifth Indian national confirmed dead in the mosque attacks was Ozair Kadir , a 25-year-old aspiring pilot from the city of Hyderabad , according to the Indian Social and Cultural Club in Christchurch . <p> The International Aviation Academy of New Zealand paid tribute to its student in a Facebook post . <p> " Ozair 's presence will be sadly missed by all staff and students at the academy . Our love , thoughts and prayers are with his family who are now in New Zealand preparing to take Ozair home . " <h> Mounir Guirgis Soliman , 68 <p> In a post on Facebook , Egypt 's Ministry of Emigration said 68-year-old Munir Suleiman was among four Egyptians killed in the Christchurch attacks . <p> Stuff said the 68-year-old was an engineer and quality manager at Scotts Engineering , a company that manufactures boilers and pressure vessels . Glenda Hillstead described him as a " lovely man " who would be missed for his personality and vital role in the company . <p> He had no children and is survived by his wife , Ekram , the website reported . <p> Soliman was laid to rest in a mass burial at the Memorial Park Cemetery in Linwood , along with 25 other victims of the attacks . The ceremony took place on Friday , March 22 . <h> Ahmed Gamal Eldin Mohamed Abdel Ghany , 68 <p> Egypt 's Ministry of Emigration , citing authorities in New Zealand , also listed 68-year-old Ahmed Gamal Eldin Abdel Ghany as among those killed in Christchurch . It did not provide more details . <p> Stuff said Ghany migrated to New Zealand from Egypt with his wife and son in 1996 . He worked at a steel company , ran a souvlaki shop and a food truck called Egyptian Donuts . <p> His son , Omar , said Ghany was a " great man with the purest of hearts " . Ghany " was kind , gentle , compassionate , generous and extremely loving to all those around him , " he added . <p> Ghany was laid to rest in a mass burial at the Memorial Park Cemetery in Linwood , along with 25 other victims of the attacks . The ceremony took place on Friday , March 22 . <h> Ashraf el-Moursy Ragheb , 54 <p> Ashraf Morsi was the third Egyptian killed in New Zealand 's mosque shootings , Egypt 's Ministry of Emigration said . His age was not listed . He is survived by his wife Siham , the statement said . <p> Ashraf el-Moursy Ragheb was laid to rest in a mass burial at the Memorial Park Cemetery in Linwood , along with 25 other victims of the attacks . The ceremony took place on Friday , March 22 . <h> Ashraf al-Masri , 54 <p> Egypt 's migration ministry said Ashraf al-Masri was also killed in the Christchurch attacks but did not provide further details . <p> Stuff said he was the father to two children of primary school age , and that his body will be returned to Egypt . <h> Matiullah Safi , 55 <p> The Afghan embassy in Canberra said Matiullah Safi , the second man of Afghan origin , had died in the attack . <p> The statement on Facebook did not give additional details , but condemned the attack as " barbaric " and said three other Afghan nationals were wounded . <p> The 55-year-old came to New Zealand from Afghanistan nine years ago , and is survived by his wife , daughter and six sons , Stuff reported . <h> Muhammad Zeshan Raza , 39 <p> Pakistan 's foreign ministry , in a Twitter post on Sunday , said Muhammad Zeshan Raza was among the nine Pakistanis killed in the mosque attacks . It did not provide further details . <p> The mechanical engineer was the only son of his parents , and had moved to Auckland in 2014 , the BBC reported . He had been working in Christchurch for less than three months when he was shot dead at the Linwood mosque , according to Stuff . <p> He was laid to rest in a mass burial at the Memorial Park Cemetery in Linwood , along with 25 other victims of the attacks . The ceremony took place on Friday , March 22 . <p> Mr Zeeshan Raza , his father Mr Ghulam Hussain and mother Ms. Karam bibi have now been confirmed to have embraced shahadat in the terrroist attack in #NewZealand . We are in touch with their family . A total of 9 Pakistanis embraced shahadat in #NewZealandTerrorAttack <h> Ghulam Hussain , 67 <p> Raza 's father , Ghulam Hussain , was also killed in the mosque shootings , said the Pakistani foreign ministry . <p> Hussain , who worked for Pakistan Airlines until his retirement , and his wife had been visiting Raza in Christchurch , the BBC reported . <p> He is survived by his daughter , Maryam Gul . <p> Ali Baig , Gul 's husband , told AP in Karachi that he spoke to his parents-in-law a day before the attack . <p> " I spoke with my wife 's parents on Thursday . We were chatting with them along with my kids ... On Friday , we had no information about them , but locals in Christchurch contacted us directly and informed us that my relatives are missing , " he said . " Today Sunday they announced they are dead . " <p> Ghulam Hussain was laid to rest in a mass burial at the Memorial Park Cemetery in Linwood , along with 25 other victims of the attacks . The ceremony took place on Friday , March 22 . <h> Karam Bibi , 64 <p> Raza 's mother , Karam Bibi , was also killed , the ministry added . The BBC said Bibi was born in Karachi , but her parents were from Punjab province . <p> Bibi is survived by her daughter and was laid to rest in a mass burial at the Memorial Park Cemetery in Linwood , along with 25 other victims of the attacks . The ceremony took place on Friday , March 22 . <h> Muse Awale , 77 <p> Muse Awale 's death was confirmed by the Federation of Islamic Associations of New Zealand . <p> The 77-year old had been living in Christchurch for about 30 years , according to Stuff . He had previously taught religious studies at Hagley School and the Al Noor Mosque , where he was killed . <p> Awale is survived by his wife , Muhubo Ali Jama and was laid to rest in a mass burial at the Memorial Park Cemetery in Linwood , along with 25 other victims of the attacks . The ceremony took place on Friday , March 22 . <h> Abdukadir Elmi , 66 <p> Abdukadir Elmi was a well known figure in the Christchurch Muslim community , according to Stuff . <p> Having survived the civil war in Somalia , he moved to New Zealand around 10 years ago , the website reported . <p> In a Facebook post , one of his sons , Said , called his father a " giant in the community " and among the " most recognisable faces in the mosque " . <p> " He was loved for his generosity and his fundraising efforts , " Said wrote . " He died as a martyr in the place he loved most . Rest in peace my beloved father " . <p> Elmi is survived by his wife of nearly 50 years , five sons and four daughters . <p> He was laid to rest in a mass burial at the Memorial Park Cemetery in Linwood , along with 25 other victims of the attacks . The ceremony took place on Friday , March 22 . <h> Hussein al-Umari , 35 <p> Hussein al-Umari was a regular at the Al Noor Mosque where he was killed , according to Stuff . <p> He moved to New Zealand with his family from the UAE 22 years ago and had worked in the travel industry , the website reported . <p> Al-Umari was laid to rest in a mass burial at the Memorial Park Cemetery in Linwood , along with 25 other victims of the attacks . The ceremony took place on Friday , March 22 . <h> Mohammed Imran Khan , 47 <p> Originally from India and known as Imran Bhai to family and friends , Khan was a hard worker who owned a restaurant , halal butchery and a cafe , according to Stuff . <p> He was killed in the Linwood mosque and is survived by his wife and 15-year old son . <p> His friend , Sukhvinder Singh , told Stuff that Khan was a kind and helpful man , well loved in Christchurch 's Indian and Muslim communities . <p> The website reported that he was a regular at the mosque and often brought food from his restaurant to share with fellow worshippers . <p> Khan was laid to rest in a mass burial at the Memorial Park Cemetery in Linwood , along with 25 other victims of the attacks . The ceremony took place on Friday , March 22. 
@@31532280 <p> A Palestinian man throws a Molotov cocktail along the Gaza sea barrier . <p> The world is on fire but the new Google Pixel 3 -- a Good Phone , which I recommend you buy if you like Android and can afford it , although its updates are mostly incremental -- in my pocket is cool to the touch . A dark slab of metal and glass . It comes alive when I rub my finger across the back of it . <p> I do n't recall exactly when my phone became such a festival of stress and psychological trauma , but here we are . <p> Ohhhhhhhhhhhhhh but that camera ! That screen ! The Lens feature that can tell me what I 'm looking at -- what kind of plant it is or what kind of animal it is or what information is captured in a business card so that I do not have to go to the library and I do not have to enter it in or even remember it at all . I do n't have to remember ! Okay , Google , I do n't want to think about it . Okay ? <p> Okay ? <p> Eleven , almost twelve , years ago I sat in the cavern of a convention center in San Francisco and watched as Steve Jobs , who at this point was not-quite-yet-but-almost god-king of Silicon Valley , bragged about the new device Apple would soon unleash upon the world . I was enthralled . <p> It was my instant companion , and I spent hours alone with it , staring into it as it relieved me of the tedium of everyday life . The boredom cure . The everywhere camera . But ! It was the arrival of third-party apps a decade ago that really sold the phone . Twitter ! ( But really , Tweetie . ) Messaging and maps and YouTube and real honest-to-god email and web browsing . Information was suddenly always fresh , always new . The drip-drip-drop of updates soon turned into a trickle and then a torrent . <p> My neck hurts . I am never not looking down . When I am not looking at my phone , I become slightly anxious . And then , when I do actually look at it , I become even more so . It reminds me of how I once felt about cigarettes . I experience the world with a meticulously crafted , tiny computer slab between me and it . I am an asshole . But so , maybe , are you ? <p> Look around any city street and there we all are , with our heads down , walking past each other , unaware . I saw you in your car driving with your phone in your hand . I saw you at the playground looking at your phone while your child 's life passed you by . I saw you on your date , alone together . <p> And sure , it is due to the data coursing through our phones , not our phones themselves . But if Twitter is responsible for the trolling and abuse and harassment on its platform , are Google and Apple as well ? If Facebook helped fuel genocide in Myanmar , does that responsibility lie with society , or Facebook , or the platform upon which the platform is built ? ( I honestly do not know . But , again , here we are . Are you reading this on your phone ? Are you happy ? Are you distracted ? Is there something more interesting , more urgent , just a notification away ? ) <p> And then there is the tracking . There is an exchange at play , of course . In order to receive the global info torrent , we must in turn provide a personal one about ourselves . This is especially true of Android phones , more so than iPhones . <p> I wanted to share all of the information this phone captured about me during the long weekend I spent reviewing it . But there was simply too much of it , and in too much detail . Publishing it would put me in real financial and perhaps physical peril . And , besides , I 'm not even sure if I am aware of it all , or if I even could capture it all . What 's out there ? We have no idea . <p> We are reaching a point of no return , when it comes to information collection , if we have not already gone beyond it . Cameras and screens , microphones and speakers . Capture your face and your voice and your friends ' faces and voices and where you are and what 's in your email and where you were when you sent it and ... What did you say ? Click , here 's an ad . And where did you go ? Click , here 's an ad . Who were you with ? Here 's an ad . What did you read here 's an ad how do you feel here 's an ad are you lonely here 's an ad are you lonely here 's an ad are you lonely ? <p> Some of the new Pixel 3 's best features are ones designed to help you not use the phone . Digital Wellbeing ( which you can also enable on the previous Pixels ) will turn your phone 's screen grayscale and turn off your notifications . It will tell you how much time you have spent on your phone for the day , and which apps you have spent that time in . You can also set a time limit on apps if you want . I found this useful and good . ( It is also easily circumvented . ) <p> Another idea : You may instead choose to buy a device with a lousy screen and a lousy camera and a terrible processor . Maybe you would use this less . Or maybe you should walk to the ocean and throw your phone in and turn around and never look back** . <h> Some good stuff : <p> Google is at the top of its game when it comes to hardware . While hardware may only be a queer little sideline for the company , it has never rolled out better devices . This phone is amazing . The operating system is amazing . There are a few apps on the iPhone that I wish this Pixel 3 had ( FaceTime , for example ) but overall I strongly prefer this device to the new iPhone . And , in my estimation , all other Android phones are just garbage by comparison . ( Having said this , Paczkowski 's dictum holds true here : Pick the ecosystem you like . Spend what you can afford . Buy the newest device . If you like iOS , you should get an iPhone . If you really love Samsung , get a Galaxy Note or whatever . If you ca n't afford this phone , but you like Android devices , there are some excellent devices from Motorola in particular that are more reasonably priced . ) <p> Mat Honan / BuzzFeed News <p> Call screening : My god , this is wonderful . Tap a button and the phone will screen a call using the Google Assistant to ask the caller questions . It both plays out loud and transcribes their answers . It is very , very cool . ( This feature will also come to older versions of the Pixel . ) <p> Mat Honan / BuzzFeed News <p> Here is a picture in extremely low light . <p> Visuals : The screen is wonderful . The camera is wonderful . The screen is the most noticeable difference from Pixel 2 to Pixel 3 . I have bad eyes , but this was a beautiful screen . Its edges have noticeable black bars around them on the Pixel 3 , but not as much on the larger Pixel 3 XL , which does have a top side notch . And like I said , the camera is just great . It performed well in all lighting conditions . <p> Mat Honan / BuzzFeed News <p> Here is a Super Res Zoom photo , alongside a normal one . <p> AI : Google has made extensive use of artificial intelligence in this phone to great effect . Here is a small example of one time that was useful . On Sunday night , I arrived at the Atlanta airport and tapped the tiny icon at the bottom of the screen to see my full list of apps . Google surfaces a few suggested ones atop the full list , and among them was the Delta app . I have several airline apps on my phone . But presumably Google had made the connection that I was at the airport and had a Delta flight ( which was in my Google Calendar , and Google email ) , which led it to suggest the Delta app . This is minor , but there are so many little things like this tucked away throughout the phone . It pleasantly surprises . The phone even uses AI to improve pictures , especially zoomed-in ones via a feature called Super Res Zoom . <p> Mat Honan / BuzzFeed News <p> The Pixel Stand : This is a $79 add-on that lets you wirelessly charge your phone and , effectively , transforms it into a miniature Google Home . What it does best is work in conjunction with Routines , so you can say " Okay , Google , good night , " for example , and it will turn off your ( connected home ) lights , go into the grayscale mode , turn off notifications , set an alarm , and turn on white noise . This worked flawlessly , and I was really impressed . On the other hand , it will probably further encourage you to keep your phone on your nightstand . Which is a terrible idea . ( Yes , I do it too . ) <h> Some bad stuff : <p> Scratchy back : I found the textured backside , which Google said is meant to resist fingerprints , scratched quite easily . Most of the scratching in the picture below was done intentionally , albeit very easily , but only because I noticed how scuffed the phone was already becoming . <p> David Kerns <p> Antenna : Several times the phone seemed to get stuck in 3G -- this mostly happened on the road , but it also happened in places where I knew there should be LTE . On multiple occasions , I toggled airplane mode and found that after I did so , it would then connect to LTE for faster internet . Weird . <p> A camera bug : Nearly a month after publishing this review , I purchased a new Pixel 3 . Unlike the loaner review device I used , this one had a bug that affects the camera . That bug has now been resolved in a December software update . <p> However , before it was , any time I tried to use an app other than the built-in Camera app to take a photo -- such as Instagram , Google Authenticator , or Twitter -- it caused the camera to stop working completely until I restarted the device . I was far from alone in seeing this , and it was , very much , a deal killer for a phone that leans heavily on the camera as a selling point . A Google spokesperson alerted me that the issue had been resolved in a software update , and based on my testing I have found that to be true in my tests . <p> Just , I mean , what phones are doing to us : This is not unique to the Pixel 3 , but it is a terrible modern fact of society . The Pixel 3 , as noted above , takes steps meant to help us reduce our usage and dependency on these wonderful and insidious devices . <h> The Bottom Line <p> This is a great phone . I highly recommend it . But it 's no longer totally clear to me that the information systems we 've built to help us navigate life are net beneficial to society . I mean , I think they are . But , Jesus . Jesus . What 's happening to us ? <p> *We use Signal to communicate because it is encrypted and god only knows who is listening in , or trying to , in this age of perpetual voluntary surveillance . <p> **Please do not do this . It would be very bad for the ocean . <h> UPDATE <p> Dec. 14 , 2018 , at 00:25 AM <p> This story was updated to note that a camera issue that came up subsequent to its original publication has now been resolved , and the original recommendation was restored . But also , come on ! <h> UPDATE <p> Nov. 15 , 2018 , at 00:53 AM <p> This story was updated to address issues with the camera which had not come up when the review was originally posted . If Google resolves the issue , we 'll update this post again . 
@@31538778 <h> Long-term arrangement with Hamas progressing ; no return of remains of Goldin , Shaul <h> Israeli concessions likely to include more entry permits , wider fishing <p> Palestinians take part in a rally marking the 31st anniversary of Hamas ' founding , in Gaza City <p> ( photo credit : IBRAHEEM ABU MUSTAFA / REUTERS ) <p> Significant progress has been made toward reaching a long-term ceasefire arrangement between Israel and Hamas in the Gaza Strip , which will not include the return of the remains of soldiers Lt. Hadar Goldin and St.-Sgt . Oron Shaul . <p> The security cabinet was briefed on the arrangement by National Security Adviser Meir Ben Shabbat , Channel 12 reported . <p> As part of the arrangement , which is being moderated by the Egyptians , Israel will increase the number of entry permits for Gazans for trade as well as increase the fishing zone off of the blockaded coastal enclave , which is currently set at 14 nautical miles . Infrastructure projects like the construction of a natural gas pipeline and increased medical assistance and equipment for hospitals are also reported to be part of Israel 's concessions . <p> In a speech at the IDC Herzliya last week , Chief of Staff Lt.-Gen . Aviv Kochavi said he recognized a " unique opportunity " in Gaza and that one of the military 's roles is to ensure that there are periods without war . <p> " I recognize a unique opportunity in Gaza . There is a strong will not to bring about an escalation of tensions on the part of Hamas and it was Palestinian Islamic Jihad under the leadership of its now-dead commander Bahaa Abu al-Ata that were responsible for the vast majority of attacks on Israel in the past year . " <p> Hamas , he said , wants to improve the welfare of its citizens and Israel is " in the process of assisting the Egyptians within which we will facilitate civilian relief . This is the policy of the Israeli government and I support it . <p> " Winning wars is n't enough , " he said . " We have to manage security in a way that does n't test the public every two or three years . We have to make sure that we reach a decisive result that ensures that there will be an interval of deterrence . " <p> Touching on the thousands of rockets launched from Gaza in the past year toward the South , Kochavi said Hamas had stopped the majority of attacks . <p> " Every time there 's a rocket siren interrupting the night or the party , or the Shabbat dinner , people say there 's no security , " he said . " But I differentiate between security and feeling of security . Security is first and foremost before the feeling of security . But we need to give people a feeling of security . And I am working non-stop on that . " <p> According to the top military officer , while war is always the last resort after all diplomatic solutions have been exhausted , " sometimes war is a solution . " <p> And when the order is given , " when we act , we will always be in a just moral position of acting with the purpose of defense rather than offense . And once we have been forced to reach this situation , we will not hesitate to employ the full force of the IDF . " <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@82482177 <h> Pixies head back to Israel <h> The Boston-based band is considered one of the most influential outfits of the late ' 80s and ' 90s . <p> Veteran American rockers the Pixies will be returning to Israel next year on July 14 at the Tel Aviv Expo , two years after their well-received 2017 show in Caesarea . <p> The American alternative rock pioneers also performed here to a sold-out audience in 2014 at Bloomfield Stadium in Jaffa . <p> The Boston-based band , who broke up in the mid-1990s and reformed bigger than ever in 2003 , is considered one of the most influential outfits of the late ' 80s and ' 90s , with albums like Surfer Rosa and Doolittle setting a blueprint for post-punk diversity . <p> Led by the iconic Black Francis ( Frank Black ) and including his co-founders David Lovering on drums and Joey Santiago on lead guitar , along with bassist Paz Lenchantin -- a replacement for longtime mainstay Kim Deal -- the Pixies released their seventh album this year -- Beneath the Eyrie . <p> The Pixies and Israel have a history . They were slated to headline a 2010 festival in Tel Aviv . However , in the aftermath of the MaviMarmara incident in which nine Turkish activists aboard the Gaza-bound aid ship were killed , the group ended up being one of the high-profile cancellations to Israel that year , amid rumored pressure on them to back out of the show . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@82531477 <p> Here 's the latest for Monday December 30th : U.S. announces military strikes in Iraq and Syria ; North Korea 's Kim Jong Un calls for unspecified offensive ; Police : Armed parishioners kill Texas church gunman ; New York stabbing suspect pleads not guilty . <p> A man accused of attacking a Hannukah celebration in New York state pleaded not guilty to five counts of attempted murder and one count of burglary . Grafton E. Thomas was arrested within two hours of the attack . ( Dec. 30 ) <p> Japan has revised a roadmap for the tsunami-wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant cleanup , further delaying the removal of thousands of spent fuel units that remain in cooling pools since the 2011 disaster . ( Dec. 27 ) <p> Israel 's prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu was rushed off the stage of an election rally on Wednesday after sirens rang out , warning of a rocket attack from the Gaza Strip . Authorities confirmed that a defensive missile intercepted the rocket . ( Dec. 26 ) <p> Three adults were killed in an apparent murder-suicide on Christmas Eve while four young children were inside the home , authorities in Lakeland , Florida said . The children were safely removed from the home . ( Dec. 25 ) 
@@82671879 <p> Hoping the Conservative candidate Shaun Bailey wins . If elected , he will be the first black mayor of London . And with Boris Johnson 's help , he will be able to work to make Londonistan become London again . <p> quote:Hoping the Conservative candidate Shaun Bailey wins . If elected , he will be the first black mayor of London . And with Boris Johnson 's help , he will be able to work to make Londonistan become London again . <p> " But guys ! Do n't you know Britain was , like , a Global Empire and there is , like , even a mosque in london from 1890 ! That must mean that there 's always been , like , a HUGE proportion of the home island population that is muslim . Like , for centuries ! Muh , global empire and turn of the century mosques . I know more than you illiterate bigots . Brexit is racist . It , like totally has NOTHING to do with leftist immigration policies and the EU . " <p> quote:Hoping the Conservative candidate Shaun Bailey wins . If elected , he will be the first black mayor of London . And with Boris Johnson 's help , he will be able to work to make Londonistan become London again . <p> If Khan loses , imagine how many London residents will still have knives ! <p> The original source is " Slavery , Terrorism and Islam : The Historical Roots and Contemporary Threat " a book written by Dr. Peter Hammond . <p> From the book : <p> " As long as the Muslim population remains around or under 2% in any given country , they will be for the most part be regarded as a peace-loving minority , and not as a threat to other citizens . This is the case in : <p> United States -- Muslim 0.6% <p> Australia -- Muslim 1.5% <p> Canada -- Muslim 1.9% <p> China -- Muslim 1.8% <p> Italy -- Muslim 1.5% <p> Norway -- Muslim 1.8% <p> At 2% to 5% , they begin to proselytize from other ethnic minorities and disaffected groups , often with major recruiting from the jails and among street gangs . This is happening in : <p> Denmark -- Muslim 2% <p> Germany -- Muslim 3.7% <p> United Kingdom -- Muslim 2.7% <p> Spain -- Muslim 4% <p> Thailand -- Muslim 4.6% <p> From 5% on , they exercise an inordinate influence in proportion to their percentage of the population . For example , they will push for the introduction of halal ( clean by Islamic standards ) food , thereby securing food preparation jobs for Muslims . They will increase pressure on supermarket chains to feature halal on their shelves -- along with threats for failure to comply . This is occurring in : <p> France -- Muslim 8% <p> Philippines -- 5% <p> Sweden -- Muslim 5% <p> Switzerland -- Muslim 4.3% <p> The Netherlands -- Muslim 5.5% <p> Trinidad &amp; Tobago -- Muslim 5.8% <p> At this point , they will work to get the ruling government to allow them to rule themselves ( within their ghettos ) under Sharia , the Islamic Law . The ultimate goal of Islamists is to establish Sharia law over the entire world . <p> When Muslims approach 10% of the population , they tend to increase lawlessness as a means of complaint about their conditions . In Paris , we are already seeing car burnings . Any non-Muslim action offends Islam , and results in uprisings and threats , such as in Amsterdam , with opposition to Mohammed cartoons and films about Islam . Such tensions are seen daily , particularly in Muslim sections , in : <p> Guyana -- Muslim 10% <p> India -- Muslim 13.4% <p> Israel -- Muslim 16% <p> Kenya -- Muslim 10% <p> Russia -- Muslim 15% <p> After reaching 20% , nations can expect hair-trigger rioting , jihad militia formations , sporadic killings , and the burnings of Christian churches and Jewish synagogues , such as in : <p> From 60% , nations experience unfettered persecution of non-believers of all other religions ( including non-conforming Muslims ) , sporadic ethnic cleansing ( genocide ) , use of Sharia law as a weapon , and jizya , the tax placed on infidels , such as in : <p> Albania -- Muslim 70% <p> Malaysia -- Muslim 60.4% <p> Qatar -- Muslim 77.5% <p> Sudan -- Muslim 70% <p> After 80% , expect daily intimidation and violent jihad , some state-run ethnic cleansing , and even some genocide , as these nations drive out the infidels , and move toward 100% Muslim , such as has been experienced and in some ways is on-going in : <p> Bangladesh -- Muslim 83% <p> Egypt -- Muslim 90% <p> Gaza -- Muslim 98.7% <p> Indonesia -- Muslim 86.1% <p> Iran -- Muslim 98% <p> Iraq -- Muslim 97% <p> Jordan -- Muslim 92% <p> Morocco -- Muslim 98.7% <p> Pakistan -- Muslim 97% <p> Palestine -- Muslim 99% <p> Syria -- Muslim 90% <p> Tajikistan -- Muslim 90% <p> Turkey -- Muslim 99.8% <p> United Arab Emirates -- Muslim 96% <p> 100% will usher in the peace of ' Dar-es-Salaam ' -- the Islamic House of Peace . Here there 's supposed to be peace , because everybody is a Muslim , the Madrasses are the only schools , and the Koran is the only word , such as in : <p> Afghanistan -- Muslim 100% <p> Saudi Arabia -- Muslim 100% <p> Somalia -- Muslim 100% <p> Yemen -- Muslim 100% <p> Unfortunately , peace is never achieved , as in these 100% states the most radical Muslims intimidate and spew hatred , and satisfy their blood lust by killing less radical Muslims , for a variety of reasons . " <p> Limiting the number of Muslims we allow to live in the United States will be the primary national security threat we face in the 21st century . We already have far too many . 
@@82755681 <h> " It 's only a fence that divides us , really , " she said . " The only solution is for us to live together . " <p> A house is taken care of by the Fire Department after being hit by rocket fire coming from the Gaza Strip , Moshav Herut , March 25 , 2019 . <p> ( photo credit : FIRE AND RESCUE SERVICE ) <p> Peace can only come to Israel 's south once Hamas allows Gazans to thrive instead of investing solely in terrorism , Adele Raemer , a resident of Kibbutz Nirim , told the UN Security Council in its periodic hearing on the Middle East on Wednesday . <p> Raemer , the first Israeli from near the Gaza border to address the Security Council , did so at the invitation of US Ambassador to the UN Kelly Craft , who is serving as president of the Security Council this month . <p> " Have you ever had to run for your life ? " Raemer asked . " When I hear the red alert early warning system for rockets , I have five to ten seconds to get somewhere safe ... If it catches me in the shower , I 'm out of luck . " <p> Raemer , who has lived in the region since 1975 and runs the popular " Life on the Border with Gaza " Facebook group with almost 5,000 members to tell about life under the shadow of terrorism , pointed out that there were 11 rounds of escalated rocket fire in the last year-and-a-half , with multiple rocket barrages each day and 1,800 rockets in the Eshkol Regional Council alone . <p> " What would any of you do if this number of projectiles was launched over your border ? " she asked . <p> Raemer accused Hamas of placing their attacks against Israel before the well-being of its own people . " Luckily for me , my government builds us safe rooms , " she said . " Hamas , on the other hand , builds safe rooms to protect their weapons . Hamas brings Gazans to border riots to lose limb or life . Hamas aims rockets at Israeli civilian communities from within schools , mosques and homes , knowing full well that the IDF is reluctant to retaliate , knowing that civilians can be harmed . " <p> Still , not all Gazans are like Hamas , Raemer said . " Most Gazans want the same things as I do -- safety for their children , food on their tables and to enable their children to have a horizon of hope . " <p> Raemer 's two grandchildren are much less safe on Kibbutz Nirim now than her children were when they grew up there . However , contact with Gazans who take great risks to educate their children differently has given Raemer hope for the future . <p> " It 's only a fence that divides us , really , " she said . " The only solution is for us to live together . " <p> Raemer said the mayors of the Western Negev " extended their hands in peace and collaboration " and have plans to help provide Gazans with electricity , backed by Arab and European donors , because the Fatah-Hamas dispute has left Gazans with breaks in electricity . <p> " If we want our lives to be good and for our region to thrive and prosper , we need to see to it that our neighbors can thrive and prosper , " she said . " I hold Hamas responsible for finding a way to stop investing in terrorism , incitement and hatred and start making choices for the people of Gaza to thrive and prosper . " <p> Raemer also told her personal story from Operation Protective Edge , during which shrapnel from a mortar shot into her bedroom . " It could have killed me , had I been in my bedroom rather than in my safe room , " she recalled . " Here I am , five-and-a-half-years after that bloody summer ... and nothing has changed . If anything , it 's worse . " <p> The Western Negev resident mentioned the forms of terror Gazans have launched in recent years , including 17 terror tunnels into Israel over the past two years , weekly riots at the border , and incendiary projectiles -- including booby-trapped toys and books . <p> As for the tunnels , they are " sinister and frightening , developed solely for the purposes of death . " She said , " Can you imagine how our children feel when they know terrorists can come bursting through a tunnel under our community at any time ? " <p> The threats " throw a shadow over our lives , " Raemer said . <p> Most of the UN Security Council 's members did not address Raemer 's remarks at all in their subsequent comments , making boilerplate calls for an end to the " occupation " and Palestinian statehood , and for Israel not to use proportionate force . <p> Noting that condemnations of Israel are commonplace in the UN , Craft questioned whether the UNSC cares that " unguided rocket fire is part of daily life for hundreds of thousands of people , Israeli and Palestinian . " <p> " Will this council also condemn them ? Will this council even take them seriously ? " she asked . <p> A two-state solution , Craft added , " will only be forged when the two parties can return to the negotiating table . For that to happen , this council must take more seriously the threat of violence from Gaza , especially from Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad . " <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@82837581 <h> Israel decides all discussions about ICC issue are confidential <h> The discussions will be held in the security cabinet . A special discussion will be held this afternoon at the Foreign Ministry . <p> Prime Minster and Defense Minister Benjamin Netanyahu speaks to the security cabinet after convening it to discuss Gaza rockets fired at Tel Aviv <p> ( photo credit : ARIEL HERMONI / DEFENSE MINISTRY ) <p> The Israeli government decided to approve a request by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to make all discussions about a recent statement by the International Criminal Court saying that the court wants to investigate Israel for war crimes confidential , according to section 35 of Israel 's Basic Law . <p> Section 35 states that " debates and decisions of the Government and those of the Ministerial committees regarding " certain matters " are secret and their disclosure and publication is prohibited . " <p> The Basic Law allows for the government to implement section 45 on " matters regarding which the Government deems secrecy to be essential to the State , a notification thereof having been declared in an order , for the purposes of this law " and matters " that the Government has decided to keep secret ; the disclosure and publication of such matters is forbidden only to persons who were aware of the decision . " <p> The discussions about the ICC statement will be held within the security cabinet . A special discussion will be held this afternoon at the Foreign Ministry . <p> The ICC intends to open a war crimes investigation into Israeli and Palestinian actions in Gaza , east Jerusalem and the West Bank beginning from June 13 , 2014 . If the case moves to the trial stage , then the court could issue arrest warrants against high-level Israelis and Palestinians . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@82846578 <p> A man accused of attacking a Hannukah celebration in New York state pleaded not guilty to five counts of attempted murder and one count of burglary . Grafton E. Thomas was arrested within two hours of the attack . ( Dec. 30 ) <p> An Iranian-backed militia says the death toll from U.S. military strikes in Iraq and Syria against its fighters had risen to 25 , and vowed to exact revenge . The Associated Press viewed the aftermath of airstrikes in western Iraq . ( Dec. 30 ) <p> Japan has revised a roadmap for the tsunami-wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant cleanup , further delaying the removal of thousands of spent fuel units that remain in cooling pools since the 2011 disaster . ( Dec. 27 ) <p> Israel 's prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu was rushed off the stage of an election rally on Wednesday after sirens rang out , warning of a rocket attack from the Gaza Strip . Authorities confirmed that a defensive missile intercepted the rocket . ( Dec. 26 ) <p> Three adults were killed in an apparent murder-suicide on Christmas Eve while four young children were inside the home , authorities in Lakeland , Florida said . The children were safely removed from the home . ( Dec. 25 ) 
@@82853581 <p> A visitor takes pictures of a new artwork dubbed " Scar of Bethlehem " by the artist Banksy . <p> Majdi Mohammed/AP <p> Banksy opened the Walled Off Hotel in 2017 to draw attention to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . <h> Be the first to know <p> We 'll send breaking news and news alerts to you as as they happen ! <p> * I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy . <h> Be the first to know <p> We 'll send breaking news and news alerts to you as as they happen ! <p> * I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy . <p> The hotel bills itself as having the worst view in the world . Nearly every window opens up to a 30-foot-high wall , part of a concrete and fence barrier that snakes hundreds of miles through the West Bank . Israel says the barrier provides protection from attacks . Palestinians say it 's a land grab , as much of the barrier is constructed in the Palestinian territory . In 2004 , the International Court of Justice at The Hague ruled that the barrier is illegal . <p> Each of the hotel 's nine rooms and presidential suite includes art by Banksy critiquing Israel 's occupation , including its Jewish-only settlements , military checkpoints and extensive surveillance system . <p> The England-based artist is a longtime critic of Israel . The artist 's work can be seen on walls and sides of buildings throughout the Palestinian territories , including Gaza . <p> " Banksy is trying to be a voice for those that can not speak , " Salsaa said . Banksy " is creating a new model of resistance through art . " <h> Photos : West Bank hotel has Banksy 's art , world 's ' worst view ' <h> Palestinians Banksy <p> People pass by the " The Walled Off Hotel " and the Israeli security barrier in the West Bank city of Bethlehem , Friday , March 3 , 2017 . The owner of a guest house packed with the elusive artist Banksy 's work has opened the doors of his West Bank establishments to media , showcasing its unique " worst view in the world . " The nine-room hotel named " The Walled Off Hotel " will officially open on March 11 . ( AP Photo/Dusan Vranic ) <p> Dusan Vranic <h> Palestinians Banksy <p> A doorman stands at the entrance of the " The Walled Off Hotel " in the West Bank city of Bethlehem , Friday , March 3 , 2017 . The hotel looks directly at the West Bank separation barrier erected by Israel to ward off potential Palestinian attackers . The barrier , which Palestinians consider to be a land grab that stifles their movement , is heavily decorated by artists and Banksy has previously painted several murals on a walled segment of it . ( AP Photo/Dusan Vranic ) <p> Dusan Vranic <h> Palestinians Banksy <p> An employee stands in the restaurant area of the The Walled Off Hotel " in the West Bank city of Bethlehem , Friday , March 3 , 2017 . The will officially open on March 11 . The cheapest rooms were available from $30 a night . ( AP Photo/Dusan Vranic ) <p> Dusan Vranic <h> Palestinians Banksy <p> An Israeli security watch tower is seen from one of the rooms of the " The Walled Off Hotel " in the West Bank city of Bethlehem , Friday , March 3 , 2017 . The whole project took 14 months to complete and was kept under complete secrecy , in accordance with Banksy 's request to protect his anonymity . ( AP Photo/Dusan Vranic ) <p> Dusan Vranic <h> Palestinians Banksy <p> One of the highlights at " The Walled Off Hotel " is room number three , known as " Banksy 's Room , " where guests sleep in a king-size bed underneath Banksy 's artwork showing a Palestinian and an Israeli in a pillow fight . ( AP Photo/Dusan Vranic ) <p> Dusan Vranic <h> Palestinians Banksy <p> Wisam Salsaa said the entire interior of " The Walled Off Hotel " was personally overseen by Banksy , to the very last details . The hotel is the largest new body of work in years , according to a press release distributed by representatives who attended Friday 's tour . ( AP Photo/Dusan Vranic ) <p> Dusan Vranic <h> Palestinians Banksy <p> A wall decorated with security cameras and slingshots is seen in the bar area of the " The Walled Off Hotel " and the Israeli security barrier in the West Bank city of Bethlehem , Friday , March 3 , 2017 . ( AP Photo/Dusan Vranic ) <p> Dusan Vranic <h> Palestinians Banksy <p> Banksy 's work is displayed in the " The Walled Off Hotel " in the West Bank city of Bethlehem , Friday , March 3 , 2017 . ( AP Photo/Dusan Vranic ) <p> Dusan Vranic <h> Palestinians Banksy <p> The presidential suite of the The Walled Off Hotel " in the West Bank city of Bethlehem , Friday , March 3 , 2017 . ( AP Photo/Dusan Vranic ) <p> Dusan Vranic <h> Palestinians Banksy <p> The presidential suite of the The Walled Off Hotel " in the West Bank city of Bethlehem , Friday , March 3 , 2017 . ( AP Photo/Dusan Vranic ) <p> Dusan Vranic <h> Palestinians Banksy <p> Gavin Grindon of the University of Essex , who co-curated with Banksy the museum inside " The Walled Off Hotel " , stands by the reenactment of the signing of the year 1919 Balfour declaration in the in the West Bank city of Bethlehem , Friday , March 3 , 2017 . ( AP Photo/Dusan Vranic ) <p> Dusan Vranic <h> Palestinians Banksy <p> A wall decorated with models of drones and a painting of Jesus with a sniper 's dot on his forehead is seen in the " The Walled Off Hotel " in the West Bank city of Bethlehem , Friday , March 3 , 2017 . ( AP Photo/Dusan Vranic ) <p> Dusan Vranic <h> Be the first to know <p> We 'll send breaking news and news alerts to you as as they happen ! <p> * I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy . <h> ( 0 ) comments <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article . 
