@@31490142 <h> Five frustrating years and eight awful months <p> The Islamic Women 's Council spent five years trying to get their concerns heard . David Williams tells their story <p> Aliya Danzeisen was crossing the tarmac at Auckland Airport on March 16 of this year to board a plane to Christchurch , when a jarring text message made her forget herself . <p> The message was from an official at a Government agency who Danzeisen , a Hamilton-based Islamic leader , had been dealing with for years in an attempt to secure public money to support the Muslim community . The message -- sent a day after the Christchurch mosques attack -- said the agency was getting more resources . <p> " It did n't say , how are you ? Is anybody that you know hurt ? What do you need ? " <p> In her disbelief , Danzeisen , of the Islamic Women 's Council , went to show her phone to the person she was flying with but was chastised by an airline employee . So she switched off her phone and replied via email the next day : " Sorry I could n't reply because I 'm really busy and because our national coordinator has lost her son . " <p> It was then that the sender realised the callousness of the message . " That 's an example , " Danzeisen says . " There are plenty -- there 's a lot within the Royal Commission . " <p> Danzeisen was a keynote speaker at last week 's New Zealand Political Studies Association conference in Christchurch . She detailed a five-year campaign to get politicians and officials to take the council 's concerns seriously . <p> Much of her story is intensely personal . Her 14-year-old daughter watched the Christchurch shooter 's video , seeing someone she knew get killed . <p> For the first three months , Danzeisen averaged three-to-four hours ' sleep a night . Right now it 's four-to-five hours . " It 's not just me . That 's typical of the Muslim women leaders in New Zealand . " <p> The vitriol on the news forced her to switch to a commercial radio station . <p> She describes getting up each day at 5.30am to check the news before waking her kids at 6am , in case she needed to prepare them for what to say in the school yard , if something happened overseas in the night . " I was n't the only one in the nation who did that . " <p> There have been positives . <p> Support for the families of the 51 martyrs , the 49 seriously injured , the 180 others injured in some way , and those traumatised by being present . The establishment of a Royal Commission . The Christchurch Call to remove terrorist and violent extremist content online . <p> In the week after the attack , politicians listened and Muslim groups were consulted . The public reaction was wonderful and reassuring , she says -- reinforcing why many Muslims chose to make New Zealand their home . <p> But the picture is mixed . <p> Some politicians still have n't met with her group , despite multiple requests . High level officials who , in recent years , agreed to hear the concerns of Danzeisen and her group , have n't made contact , even after March 15 . Despite a fruitless cycle of meetings , presentations , and calls to write reports and business cases , it 's still not clear what permanent support government agencies will offer the broader Muslim community . <p> Danzeisen : " The state sector did n't work and it 's not working . " <p> Borrowing a phrase from George Orwell 's novel Animal Farm , she says all animals are equal but some animals are more equal than others . Her point is that Muslims are not treated equally . <p> This comes from a white American who gave up a successful legal career to return to teaching -- someone who knew privilege and wealth and gave it up . <p> " I know , coming from my background , and my litigation experience , if I did n't have a headscarf , if I had advocated those same issues without a headscarf , and without the term Muslim , and said , this is happening to a community , they need help , I believe in my heart that we would have been listened to . But we were discounted . " <p> The question is , what chance is there now of equal treatment ? <p> Speaking truth to power <p> Orwell wrote : " If liberty means anything at all , it means the right to tell people what they do not want to hear . " <p> Having been born on a farm in the American Midwest , Danzeisen was raised to do just that . " If we do n't like something we 'll tell you , and we 'll tell you right away . But we 'll work with you to figure it out . " <p> Perhaps that 's what propelled her to study law ( although her first choice was political science and international relations ) . She loved the arguing and court battles , but not the long hours typing on a computer . <p> The Hamiltonian is a revert Muslim . She was n't born to the religion , she chose it -- turning to Islam after 13 years of study , and stopping through Buddhism , Shintoism and Catholicism on the way . <p> She adopted Islam four months before the 2001 terrorist attacks . <p> " September 11th did give me pause -- not related to the Muslim community , but was I happy with my life ? I chose to go back into education . I 'd been a teacher before I practised law for eight years . " <p> By 2006 she had paid off her bills and returned to teaching . " I was free to be who I wanted to be . " <p> When Danzeisen came to New Zealand she chose to wear the headscarf . That 's when she noticed a change . It 's rare for people , when they meet her , to pick that she 's a white American woman . <p> At a well-known New Zealand store -- that she does n't name -- she was standing in front of two shop assistants while they argued in front of her : " You take her , " said one . " No , you take her , " said the other . <p> Danzeisen piped up : " Do you realise I speak English ? " <p> The Islamic Women 's Council will celebrate its 30th anniversary next year -- at its national conference to be held in Christchurch . It has an executive of strong , educated , experienced professional volunteers . <p> ( A quirk of the Muslim community , which numbers 57,000 people according to the latest census , is how young it is . Nearly two-thirds are under the age of 35 , while about 6.5 percent are over 60 . With fewer elders , that means much of the heavy lifting is done by working-age people , taking them from their families , from their homes . ) <p> The council brings Muslim women together to share stories and raise issues , to be inspired by international speakers , and have some fun . <p> It fosters and develops young women . They 're all still in New Zealand , working in IT , social work , speech pathology , science , and the police . There 's also a dentist and photographer . These young women are now giving back -- not just to their community , but to their country . <p> One might expect the state would be just as nurturing of a vulnerable and marginalised community . <p> " It was vitriolic . We were feeling it . Our youth were distressed . We ourselves were having difficulty dealing with it . " <p> Six years ago , the Islamic Women 's Council was doing what most communities , and churches , do -- investing in their own , especially their youth , and holding barbecues and fundraisers . They were plodding along fine , and making good progress , Danzeisen says . <p> There was a vibrancy in the community . " We were feeling good . " <p> Then , in 2014 , there was a change . It came suddenly , sweeping in from abroad . <p> " It was a change we had no power to control , " Danzeisen says . <p> It started with conflict in Gaza . Over July and August , more than 2200 Palestinians were killed , according to a United Nations estimate . <p> Muslim youth in New Zealand were particularly troubled , and peppered their elders with questions . How ? Why ? Help ? <p> " They 'd not seen something like this before , " Danzeisen says . While older Muslims had seen the pendulum swing back and forth as such , from peace to war , were more settled than the youth , who had lived comparatively comfortably . <p> Paired with that was the rise of ISIS , or Islamic State . After months of fighting in Syria and Iraq , ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi declared a caliphate on June 29 . <p> " It was big , " Danzeisen says . " It was something that we ourselves were , like , where did this come from ? " <p> The tension was immediately augmented by media , bringing a focus on Muslims far beyond that of September 11 , 2001 . " It was vitriolic . We were feeling it . Our youth were distressed . We ourselves were having difficulty dealing with it . " <p> At work , Muslims would stumble into conversations about what they 'd heard on the news , as events from 16,000km away would be placed , uncomfortably and unreasonably , on their shoulders . <p> What more could they do ? They put their head down , settled their community and , as she puts it , kept " building " . <p> As 2014 came to a close , another shock -- this one local . <p> Prime Minister John Key announced the Government would introduce new laws to deal with New Zealanders recruited by terrorist groups like ISIS . Changes included powers to suspend or cancel passports , and warrantless surveillance . The Security Intelligence Service also got a $7 million boost . <p> Danzeisen : " It was clear that it was specifically made to address the Muslim community . " <p> The Bill was rushed through . Its first reading was in late November and it was passed 11 days later . The public had two working days to make submissions . <p> In its submission , the Human Rights Commission called for important changes , but stressed the " importance of developing relationships with affected communities and fostering social solutions to the broader issues of terrorism and extremism " . <p> In Parliament , Labour MP David Shearer , the party 's former leader , says the changes were " targeted at members of the Muslim community " and the Government should give them time to provide feedback . There were fears they were being picked on , Shearer said . <p> Labour 's Phil Goff , a former foreign minister who 's now the Auckland Mayor , called it an appalling abuse of process ( although Labour eventually supported the bill ) . <p> If people were n't looking at the Muslim community they were now . You need your passports removed , some were told . What 's wrong with you ? <p> " What was happening in Iraq and Syria now was placed on us -- and it was placed on us by the Government , " Danzeisen says . " And it was intense . " <p> The Muslim community needed help . So they went to the only organisation big enough and capable enough to provide support for the community 's various issues -- the Government . <p> The Ministry of Social Development provided a facilitator for a weekend and the Islamic Women 's Council executive came together and identified their issues : what they were seeing , and what was being reported to them . <p> A policy paper was written , with nine points . They included education , employment , health , social isolation , family violence . There were concerns about the misrepresentation of Muslim women in the media . Also , the rise of Islamophobia . In practical terms , how do you report a hate crime ? <p> The nine points would be central to discussions with politicians ( Government with a capital " G " ) and bureaucrats ( government with a small " g " ) . <p> Council members also plugged into a building global movement called countering violent extremism , or CVE , attending summits in Singapore , Australia , and the United Nations . <p> " There did not seem to be a desire to solve this issue , " Danzeisen says . " We found the dialogue is not productive and we backed off as an organisation . " <p> In the Government 's 2015 Budget , the Security Intelligence Service ( SIS ) and Government Communications Security Bureau each get an extra $20 million over four years . <p> Then , in December , another bombshell from Prime Minister Key , over so-called " jihadi brides " . <p> In an open session of the powerful intelligence and security select committee , SIS boss Rebecca Kitteridge mentioned that , over the previous year , there had been an increase in New Zealand women heading to Iraq and Syria . <p> " Where 's it going now ? " Key asked . " Jihadi brides ? " <p> After the meeting , Key told media one or two people had left for Syria and engaged in weddings " effectively at the very last minute " . <p> The pressure , already intense , became vice-like . The country 's prime minister had placed it " on us " , Danzeisen says , that Muslim women were leaving New Zealand to support ISIS and marry their fighters . " And he did n't place just on the community in general or just on New Zealand , he placed it square on Muslim women . " <p> Amid the panic , there was also puzzlement . Who were these women ? The Muslim community was small enough that you could ask , " Who left ? " , and you 'd be told . <p> That 's because no one did . In March 2016 , it was revealed that the people Key was referring to had left from Australia . He rejected accusations of scaremongering , and refused to apologise to Muslim women in New Zealand , saying it did n't matter where the jihadi brides left from . <p> Muslim women bear the brunt of abuse because they 're identifiable and vulnerable . <p> Later that year , at the Islamic Women 's Council 's national camp -- attended by three female police officers , in case of threats -- about 100 of 120 females aged between 12 and 26 said they 'd been harassed or discriminated against by a teacher or professor in the previous year . <p> Key 's December remarks added fuel to the fire . The very next day , young Muslim women were harassed at school . " It was n't in one school , " Denzeisen says . " It was nationwide . " <p> One headscarf-wearing 14-year-old was taunted : " Someone should check her backpack for bombs " . <p> ( Danzeisen reveals Kitteridge approached her group the following year , to apologise , even though she never used the phrase jihadi brides . " And she was seeking the right to clarify to media when they got it wrong . " When asked , the SIS did n't deny it . ) <p> Global events add pressure <p> Western cities continued to be hit by terrorist attacks and mass shootings . <p> There was Sydney 's Lindt caf ? hostage crisis in December 2014 , in which three people were killed . The Charlie Hebdo shootings in Paris in January 2015 , followed by the attacks that killed 130 in the same city in November . Nine church parishioners were shot dead in Charleston , South Carolina . In 2016 , there was the Pulse nightclub shootings that killed 49 in Orlando , Florida , and the murder of British MP Jo Cox . <p> New Zealand 's Islamic Women 's Council was in desperate need of a champion , someone with access to government but not so close they could n't speak plainly and rattle a few cages . Enter Race Relations Commissioner , and former squash world champ , Dame Susan Devoy . <p> It was Devoy who approached Danzeisen at a barbecue over the 2015-16 summer . They 'd met a few times previously . The commissioner was worried about reports of increasing discrimination against Muslims . They also discussed the possibility of some sort of attack in New Zealand . <p> " From that conversation , " Danzeisen says , " she picked up the mantle and became the strongest advocate that we had through this whole process . " <p> Doors started opening . In April 2016 , council members met with Attorney General Chris Finlayson , who was also the Minister responsible for our spy agencies . <p> The Government had passed new security laws without consulting the Muslim community or helping to solve its problems . " They were focusing on us but not letting us be involved , " Danzeisen says . Finlayson gave clear assurances at that meeting , but also to its national body at the annual conference , that it would be included -- it would have a seat at the decision-making table . <p> Finlayson seems to recall a different meeting , part of a series of gatherings on proposals to make sweeping changes to intelligence and security laws . He tells Newsroom the sentiment he gave was : " Everyone 's entitled to the protection of the law , everyone is subject to the law . " ( As long as they 're treated equally , some might say . ) <p> The former Minister , who left Parliament in January , says he remembers concerns being raised with him . He told authorities : " Keep in touch with these folk because they need a little TLC . " <p> As to promises of a seat at the table , he says : " I 'd never give assurances like that , I do n't think , because I would be incapable of performing them . " <p> Thanks to the advocacy of Devoy and , Danzeisen believes , spy boss Kitteridge , the Council got a meeting with the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet ( DPMC ) in January 2017 . Officials from DPMC , the Department of Internal Affairs , and Office of Ethnic Affairs were present . <p> " We raised those same concerns and we emphasised urgent need , " Danzeisen says . They noted pressure was building and it was taking its toll . " We were exhausted as a community . " <p> But its persistence was about to pay off . Again , with help from Devoy , the Islamic Women 's Council was one of nine groups that presented at the heads of government meeting in March 2017 . <p> " We were engaging . The Government was talking to us but they were n't actually doing anything . " <p> It was a who 's who of the bureaucracy . DPMC was there , State Services Commission , Police , Education , Foreign Affairs and Trade , the Business Ministry , and Corrections . <p> " Their highest officials were at this meeting , " Danzeisen says . The council presented its nine points , giving Islamophobia its own point for the first time because of increasing harassment . There was discrimination and marginalisation , they said . The media portrayal of Muslims was harmful . <p> The community was over capacity and lacked resources . <p> Then it told the government how it could help . <p> " We talked also how this would impact New Zealand and its brand if they did n't get it right , " Danzeisen says . " And how it was already impacting how people felt about New Zealand . " <p> The council specifically raised the potential of loss of life in New Zealand . <p> " We made specific , clear statements about our concern with the alt right in New Zealand . And we gave examples . " A hardcopy example of social media vitriol was handed to each attendee . <p> They got the message , Danzeisen says , and they knew who would suffer first if they got it wrong . <p> Discussions between government agencies and the Muslim community seemed to be on the table . " We 'd be at the table is what we were told . Within two months we were no longer even in the discussions . The discussions were still occurring but we never got another invitation back . " <p> The day after the heads of government hui , the council met with Finlayson and discussed the alt right , giving concrete examples . " He never engaged with us again . " <p> ( Finlayson says he certainly remembers being told about extremism . He thinks " alt right " is a term that came to popular usage after the deadly white supremacist protest in Charlottesville in 2017 . ) <p> At the Islamic Women 's Council annual conference in 2017 , Denzeisen sat on a discussion panel with Devoy and Kitteridge . <p> " I said that there needs to be a little less talk and a lot more action was needed to help our community . And engagement thus far had been one sided . We were engaging . The Government was talking to us but they were n't actually doing anything . " <p> Since 2016 , it had spoken with growing urgency and alarm . " Something was going to happen , we could feel it . But the level ? We did n't know . " <p> They were sent burrowing back into the bureaucracy . <p> Al Noor mosque , where 42 people were killed on March 15 . Photo : David Williams <p> A big problem Muslim groups face in finding funding is the reliance , in this country , on lotteries and alcohol money to fill the gaps in public spending needed to fix social issues . Danzeisen : " We as a Muslim community ca n't access that . To do so goes against our beliefs . " <p> In meetings with Government departments , they 'd constantly be told to apply for a lotteries grant , like other community groups . Beyond that fundamental lack of cultural understanding , the council would scratch its head . <p> " Why are you relying on lotteries funding for social development ? " its members would ask . Such a structural impediment left Muslim groups feeling like second-class citizens . <p> The council also presented to private funders , like trusts . They 'd often say that the Muslim community needed social workers . <p> " And we were , like , we know ! " Danzeisen says . Well , the trusts said , we do n't pay for social workers , that 's the Government 's job . And anyway , the trusts could only hand out cash in $5000 dollops -- and there 's no guarantee the money will roll over . <p> " They literally said in the one meeting , the Government 's shirking their duties . " <p> Another issue the council faced was the constant turnover government officials . They 'd upskill one person on their issues and needs , and have to start again when they left of got replaced . <p> The person in charge of the community 's programme changed after the 2017 heads of government meeting . The new person had n't even been in that room . There was a new director at the Office of Ethnic Communities , who did n't know the Muslim community . <p> " We struggled through the bureaucracy , " Danzeisen says . " It was clear through all communications there was a lack of awareness of our issues . " There was minimal expertise in the state sector about Muslim issues , a lack of understanding of the complexity of those issues , and a lack of action on matters the community thought that were important . <p> ( In one meeting , Danzeisen explained to officials why a particular situation would affect the Rohingya people , the Islamic group from Myanmar . " They did n't have people who spoke the language , and they did n't have people who understood the hidden meanings of some of the statement . " ) <p> She gives an example of asking a government agency for a national strategy . " They decided that they would do a workshop in Hamilton . " <p> The council argued against it because Hamilton is the most settled Muslim community . " We said it 's one of two things : You want to either destabilise the one community that 's stable ; or you want to take a low hanging fruit and look like you actually have done something . " <p> Stubbornly , Hamilton remained the focus . <p> With the change of Government after the 2017 election , Danzeisen 's group reeled out the nine points with the new Minister of Ethnic Communities , Jenny Salesa . <p> Frustration was high at the point . It had been nine months since the heads of government meeting . " There was not a single example of change , " Danzeisen laments . <p> She fired off a volley of frustrated emails to the head of the public service , Peter Hughes . She wanted a set of performance measures from government departments . Instead she was invited to a meeting . <p> A glimmer of hope <p> Devoy , who attended the January 2018 meeting with Hughes , says it was born of frustration at getting nowhere . There were emails backwards and forwards beforehand saying : " Your staff are n't doing their job , actually , and nothing 's happening , can we all meet ? " <p> " We raised more than a dozen , " Danzeisen says . " And we gave evidence on where they had failed us . We had specific evidence on each of the points to the State Services Commissioner . " <p> Afterwards , Hughes agreed to the establishment of a Muslim advisory group , and asked his deputy to locate money within the state sector to support us . ( They 'd asked for up to $250,000 , to employ some fulltime social workers with culturally appropriate experience to help them within their communities . ) <p> " We came out of that meeting feeling like there was the potential to change , " Danzeisen says . It seemed to spark some momentum , as they secured meetings with Justice Minister Andrew Little and Salesa , again . ( Danzeisen spoke at a national security conference where she was labelled as being from the " suspect community " . ) <p> The newly formed advisory group , representing a diverse range of people across the Muslim community , met in May to set its terms of reference . Ahead of that meeting , the agencies that had attended the heads of government meeting the year before were asked to list their achievements . <p> " Only three sent anything to us , " Danzeisen says . " And basically the programmes they had done were programmes they were already running prior to the meeting . " <p> Then , mid-year , a huge blow -- Devoy announced she was leaving . " She was our strongest advocate , " Danzeisen says , her voice breaking . She plucks tissues from a nearby box . <p> " And they did n't fill the position until after the attacks . They just recently filled it . And we lost our only advocate . We had conversations with Ministers about how important she was to us . " <p> Momentum stuttered -- then stalled . In July , the State Services Commission said it could n't find the money . Hughes , who had promised to check in after six months , did n't . <p> Hughes responds that Denzeisen is right to champion Muslim communities and to challenge public agencies ' responsiveness . " I expect government agencies to listen to the communities they serve and to respond appropriately where they can and , when they ca n't , to be clear about that . " He says Danzeisen was seeking funding for an initiative in Hamilton -- she says , however , she was pushing for a national programme . Hughes says a business case has been prepared on behalf of the Muslim community and the Ministry of Social Development is waiting for it to be submitted . <p> Department of Internal Affairs deputy chief executive Marilyn Little bristles at the idea the council 's efforts to get help from her department basically floundered . " We suspect that you may be referring to approaches made to other government agencies , " she says in an emailed statement . " We 're happy to provide a summary of our work with the Islamic Women 's Council . " <p> The State Services Commission and DIA worked together to identify potential sources of appropriate funding across the public sector , she says . Asked how much money from DIA and Office of Ethnic Communities has been earmarked to help the Muslim community since the meeting with Hughes in January 2018 , DIA sent Newsroom website links to its funding announcements . <p> " We did n't have any government officials at our November 2018 advisory group meeting . So there was no one in the room to advise . " <p> After the initial May meeting , the Muslim advisory group scheduled another gathering for November last year , and government officials were asked to put the date in their calendars . One high-level official told Danzeisen she would n't attend because , basically , she did n't realise she was invited . This is despite being told to put the date in her calendar , Danzeisen says . She 'd also paid for the other group members to fly in , and organised the catering . She clearly knew the meeting was on . <p> " We did n't have any government officials at our November 2018 advisory group meeting . So there was no one in the room to advise . " <p> ( DIA deputy chief executive Little says : " DIA had an attendee available at the venue in November but that person was not invited into the meeting . " ) <p> The advisory group never met again . And the council did n't hear from the Department of Internal Affairs or the Office of Ethnic Communities until after March 's attack . <p> When it came , Danzeisen says , " We were challenged , demonised and unsupported . And we were exhausted . " <p> Danzeisen expressed frustration at not getting meetings with State Services Minister Chris Hipkins and Internal Affairs Minister Tracey Martin . Their offices ' responses are perhaps symptomatic of the run-around the council has experienced . <p> Hipkins ' office says it has no recollection of phone calls and ca n't find emails , but the Minister 's happy to meet next year . ( Could she send an email ? ) <p> Martin 's office is more combative : " To be clear , Minister Martin has no responsibility for this work , " the reply says , noting that Government engagement with the Muslim community rests with Salesa and Christchurch 's Megan Woods . <p> " The Minister has said that she will meet the IWCNZ in Auckland when a day can be organised . If Ms Danzeisen wants that to occur more quickly she can get back in touch with the people in this office she 's been emailing . " <p> " What is ironic with our government engagement is that we found most of the doors closed were often closed by women in the public service . " <p> New Zealand is renowned for changes wrought by its strong wahine . <p> It was the first country in the world in which women had the right to vote . Maori women had similar stories of success for their community -- think Te Puea Herangi , and Dame Whina Cooper . The Islamic Women 's Council wanted to follow in their footsteps , particularly as a minority group facing racist attacks . <p> " Those are examples of people who , through their efforts , made progress for their community . And we thought that it was a natural transition for us as women to be the advocates , and that we could -- as educated female Muslims -- get our voice heard when we were facing challenges . <p> " We thought that we could make a difference . What is ironic with our government engagement is that we found most of the doors closed were often closed by women in the public service . " <p> " There 's a difference in treatment in how we were treated to other communities . " <p> Danzeisen only donned the hijab as an adult , so she can call on a different experience . <p> " Had I not had a hijab , I am confident that we would have been heard , " she says . " I just know in my heart . " <p> She 's not alone . Danzeisen says how Devoy said many times : " This is not how we do things in New Zealand . " In one meeting , she said if the council comprised pakeha women , without headscarves , " you would have been listened to by now " . <p> Devoy confirms the story : " Most definitely . And/or Maori and Pasifika I might add . Not that they would n't be listened to , but the overarching problem in New Zealand is that we do not have anything specific for any of our ethnic populations . " <p> DIA did n't respond to this accusation of discrimination . <p> There has been good work -- such as a leaflet explaining Muslims ' rights on their return , or entry , to New Zealand ( who were being detained for seemingly no reason ) -- but generally it was n't led by government agencies , Devoy says . <p> Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern appears to be trying her best , Devoy says , saying the right things at meetings she 's attended . But there does n't seem to be any sea change in what the Government 's doing -- apart from the Christchurch Call . <p> It 's appalling , Devoy says , that nothing concrete , nothing substantial -- as far as she 's aware -- has come from all the Islamic Women 's Council meetings with agencies . <p> " What we 're seeing really is a little , mini version of what 's happened to Maori over years and years and years . This sort of disadvantage is continuing on , but it 's applying to a different population . " <p> Where is the apology , Devoy asks . " To say , look , we could have done much better , and we 're going to , and so we 're going to get you all back in the room and we 're going to say , what do you need immediately . " <p> " I would have thought , given what 's happened in Christchurch now , they would have scurried around and given them the earth . " <p> Asked if politicians failed the Muslim community , former attorney general Finlayson says : " The Royal Commission will look at these issues . I 'm not going to opine on anything , I 'm going to tell you what I did and leave it at that . " <p> At least the spy agencies appear to have changed tack . The SIS says in a statement that answers about the focus of intelligence agencies would come from the Royal Commission inquiry . But it adds : " Since the Christchurch attacks , the level of information NZSIS receives has risen and , unsurprisingly , an increasing proportion of these leads have related to right-wing extremism . " <p> In the weeks after the attack , thousands of people were drawn to vigils and services . Photo : Getty Images <p> On March 15 the Muslim community 's worst fears became reality . <p> Danzeisen told Minister of Ethnic Communities Salesa , when she called in the prime minister 's stead , " we warned you " . But that that was n't the time to have that conversation . There was a community to support in Christchurch . <p> Once Danzeisen got to Christchurch , it was clear the first responders were highly prepared . " They worked tirelessly and I ca n't fault that . " <p> On a personal level that day was crushing , she says . The council 's national coordinator , Maysoon Salama , lost her son , Atta Elayyan , while her husband , Mohammad Alayan , was seriously injured . <p> When Danzeisen reached the hospital , Salama 's first comment was a personal one . The second was , " we tried to prevent this " . <p> Unbidden , Devoy wrote a piece for The Spinoff the next day . " You should read it , " Danzeisen implores . <p> The following day , Rahman wrote a detailed account of what had happened -- of the warnings , the repeated pleas for help , and , in the wake of the attack , a call for accountability . " Why was she able to detail it so quickly ? We actually were recording our encounters because we anticipated there was going to be something . " <p> And then , the wahine worked with The Hui to tell their story visually , of what it felt like to be a Muslim in New Zealand . <p> What did it feel like ? Getting back to Orwell , Danzeisen 's talk was titled ' All women are equal , but some are more equal than others ' . <p> " Several time over the last five years , even prior to the attacks , I felt like I was in the Animal Farm . And I think our community , at times , felt like we were in the Animal Farm . " <p> She tests several analogies on her audience . <p> Were they the hens from Animal Farm , trying to protect our clutches so that they could be born in the spring ? The hens that went to the rafters to try and protect their community ? " And yet , the hens , we lost our eggs . " <p> The next comparison to Orwell 's book is : All animals are equal but some animals are more equal than others . " Our voices were not heard , despite years of warnings , " Danzeisen says . " No action was taken to safeguard our community from risks . " <p> Being equal means , for example , having access to all information at the Royal Commission . Despite being on the commission 's Muslim reference group , some information is withheld because it 's classified . <p> Or is the Muslim community like Boxer , the farm 's hard-working , but na ? ve , cart-horse ? Boxer worked so hard to build the windmill -- like the Muslim community -- only to see it destroyed . Danzeisen : " We 're turning around and we 're getting back to work , building the windmill again . " <p> But we all know how the story ends , she says . Boxer gets ill because of the lack of support , and is sold to the local knacker . She tells her audience at the University of Canterbury last week that they , as political scientists , are integral to re-writing the story . <p> " The horse slaughter and glue boiler van has arrived . If we look at democracy around the world , it 's here . Are you going to show a bit of concern and watch the van head off ? Or are you going to stand in front of the vehicle , surround it , and ensure that it goes no further ? " <p> This Orwellian story can have a new ending , and not just for New Zealand . <p> " This is n't a story just for the Muslim community , it 's for all of us . " <p> *The Islamic Women 's Council was granted $55,000 in the Ethnic Communities Development Fund 2019 " additional fund " announcement . Danzeisen says it funded programmes in Christchurch over the school holidays that followed the attacks , with a team of high trauma Muslim experts and also the organisation 's national conference in Auckland where the Prime Minister spoke . <p> We value fearless , independent journalism . We hope you do too . <p> Newsroom has repeatedly broken big , important national news stories and established a platform for quality journalism on issues ranging from climate change , sexual harassment and bullying through to science , foreign affairs , women 's sports and politics . <p> But we need your support to continue , whether it is great , small , ongoing or a one-off donation . If you believe in high quality journalism being available for all please click to become a Newsroom supporter . <h> Comments <p> Newsroom does not allow comments directly on this website . We invite all readers who wish to discuss a story or leave a comment to visit us on Twitter or Facebook . We also welcome your news tips and feedback via email : contact@newsroom.co.nz . Thank you . 
@@31505725 <h> Chris Trotter analyses the British election result and what our main parties can learn from it in the run up to our own election next year <p> The lessons to be learned from the UK election and ( hopefully ) applied next year in New Zealand are relatively simple . <p> First , if you have a popular leader , then do everything you can to keep her . <p> Second , if you have an unpopular leader , your chances of winning -- even when many of your policies are supported enthusiastically by a majority of the electorate -- are dismal . <p> Third , securing the neutrality ( if not the open support ) of the mainstream news media is an absolutely vital component of any successful election campaign . <p> Fourth , do not appear to be hedging your bets on the issues that matter most to voters -- tell the truth and shame the Devil , or , at least learn to lie as persuasively as he does . <p> Fifth , do not , under any circumstances , give Israel and its supporters cause to view you as an existential threat . <p> Insisting , as many aggrieved leftists in the UK and around the world are currently arguing , that Boris Johnson 's big win had nothing to do with Jeremy Corbyn is just plain wrong . Journalists who travelled with Labour Party candidates and canvassers from one rainy doorstep to the next heard the same message : " I 'm not voting for your party while Corbyn remains its leader . " Opinion polls confirm these eye-witness accounts . <p> Upwards of 40% of former Labour voters gave Corbyn as the reason for their defection . Fewer than 20% nominated the party 's stance on Brexit . <p> Whatever the causes -- and we 'll get to those -- Corbyn was neither liked nor trusted by a huge number of British voters . Given the way modern election campaigns are conducted , that level of unpopularity is likely to prove fatal . <p> If your leader 's face is being thrust in voters ' faces every day on every platform : television , social media , the press ; and that face reminds them of an irritable geography teacher , then you have a problem . If a great many people are further convinced that the irritable geography teacher is a fanatical socialist , a supporter of terrorism , and an antisemite , then you 've got an even bigger problem . And if , on top of all these handicaps , the perception exists that your leader has always backed Brexit -- but lacked the courage and honesty to say so -- then you 've got an insurmountable problem . <p> Oh , what the British Labour Party would have given for a leader like Jacinda Ardern ! And , oh , how grateful the NZ Labour Party must be to have her -- especially now that any nagging doubts it might have harboured about refusing to embrace " Corbynista " radicalism have been well-and-truly allayed . <p> Labour 's strategists , having seen how little it mattered that Boris was caught telling the most outrageous fibs ( and hiding in refrigerated lorries ! ) will be reassured that their instincts about Jacinda have been proved correct . If your own side loves their leader to bits , and even your opponents secretly warm to her empathy and positivity , then nothing more is needed . Flood every media platform with Jacinda 's face , and her most affective video clips , sit back , and wait for the votes to roll in . <p> It would be unfair to suggest that Simon Bridges resembles Jeremy Corbyn . Whatever else he may look like , Bridges most emphatically does not look like an irritable geography teacher . The Brylcreemed bodgie drummer of a West Auckland rock-band , maybe , but never a teacher ! However unfair , Bridge 's " optics " just do n't work -- not even with National Party voters . He may not be disliked as heartily as Corbyn , but with so many New Zealanders unable to see in him a credible prime minister , it is going to be a very steep uphill struggle for National in 2020 . <p> Bridges can , however , take comfort from the fact that he will not , like Corbyn , fall victim to the unrelenting hostility of the New Zealand news media . Some of National 's present policies may raise the occasional eyebrow on the New Zealand Right , but the MP for Tauranga does not strike the average Kiwi editor as a raving fascist , whose fanatical supporters have turned the National Party into a Nazi Party front , and who constitutes a clear and present danger to the national security of New Zealand . <p> Substitute " hard-line Marxist " for " raving fascist " and you have a pretty good steer on the way in which the British news media presented Jeremy Corbyn to its viewers , listeners and readers . The whole of the media , mind , not just the usual right-wing suspects in the Murdoch press . <p> Indeed , the most serious damage done to Corbyn came not from The Sun or The Telegraph , but from The Guardian and the BBC . <p> After Corbyn 's showing in the 2017 General Election , the British Establishment understood that deploying The Sun and The Telegraph was no longer enough . It would take the liberal-left columnists of The Guardian and the state broadcaster 's " neutral " professionals , to fatally wound the Left 's accidental champion . <p> Any objective assessment of Corbyn 's politics would , of course , position him comfortably on the left of Labour Prime Minister Harold Wilson 's Cabinet - somewhere alongside Anthony Wedgewood-Benn and Barbara Castle . Similarly , Corbyn 's organisational backers in the left-leaning " Momentum " currently exercise no firmer grip on the Labour Party " machine " than did Tony Blair 's " NewLabour " apparatchiks for the best part of two decades ! " Hard-Line Marxists " should be ( and are ) made of considerably sterner stuff ! Certainly , they tend not to waste so much of their time participating in democratic elections . <p> But if Corbyn 's mildly social-democratic domestic policies would have occasioned barely a shrug in Norway , Denmark or Finland , the same can not be said of Israel 's response to his " anti-imperialist " foreign policies . As a life-long supporter of the Palestinian cause and a staunch foe of Zionism , Corbyn was not a figure the Israeli national-security apparatus could afford to ignore . A Corbyn-led Labour Government , especially one empowered to abandon the UK 's nuclear deterrent , would have become a beacon for every young idealist in the Western World . That same Government , if it threw its weight behind the " Boycott , Disinvestment , Sanctions " ( BDS ) movement , would have unquestionably constituted an existential threat to the State of Israel 's survival . <p> One can only marvel at the success of the campaign to brand Corbyn -- a man raised in the vibrant Jewish intellectual culture of the London Left -- an antisemite . Not only did it fatally weaken Corbyn , but in attempting to respond to the charges laid against him , the Labour Party effectively debarred itself from any and all future criticism of Zionism , the State of Israel and/or the Israeli Government 's government policies towards the Palestinians . Research scheduled to be published in the New Year will expose the processes by which the antisemitism charge was indelibly branded into Corbyn 's forehead -- and by whom . By then , however , it will be too late . The threat to Jerusalem has already been neutralised . <p> If Labour wants to win next year , then the " learnings " it should take from the UK General Election of 12/12/19 are pretty straightforward : do not embrace any policies even vaguely threatening to the neoliberal order -- including its principal defenders in the mainstream news media . Or Israel . Labour should also thank its lucky stars that in 1993 New Zealand adopted proportional representation . Had the UK done the same , then Jeremy Corbyn would today be the first minister in a coalition government composed of Labour , the Scottish Nationalist Party and the Liberal Democrats . <p> For National , the learnings are more sobering . The sort of person the party needs to lead it to victory in 2020 should look a lot more like Winston Peters than Simon Bridges . Because , when you think about it , Boris Johnson is a politician cut from very much the same cloth as our own conservative populist . Both men believe fervently in the stars of their personal destinies . Both admire Winston Churchill . Both subscribe to " One Nation " Toryism . Both have become experts at whittling-down their ethics and stretching-out the truth . And , crucially , both of these ambitious political rascals are infuriatingly easy to forgive . <p> So , perhaps Jacinda should also thank her lucky stars that , heading into Election Year , it is Labour that has the populist mojo -- not National . <p> *Chris Trotter has been writing and commenting professionally about New Zealand politics for more than 30 years . His work may be found at http : **27;3304;TOOLONG . He writes a fortnightly column for interest.co.nz . <p> We welcome your help to improve our coverage of this issue . Any examples or experiences to relate ? Any links to other news , data or research to shed more light on this ? Any insight or views on what might happen next or what should happen next ? Any errors to correct ? <p> Remember we welcome robust , respectful and insightful debate . We do n't welcome abusive or defamatory comments and will de-register those repeatedly making such comments . Our current comment policy is here . <p> Chris , call it what it is ... Soyamun IS a fascist in a blue suit , what else would you call someone who happily fronts a policy called Taskforce Raptor ? On UK Labor ... has anyone thought to consider that the party elected to purposefully lose the election that if they had fought to win AND won would be and I virtually guarantee this ... the election that effectively leads to the break up of the Union and an utter cluster f**ck of a exit from the EU ? Who would want to win with those prospects on the horizon ? I am saying they threw the election and will standback as the Tories make a disaster of things ... then the real backlash against the tories will see things change dramatically in the UK . <p> Gang 's and organised crime present a difficult challenge , one that the coalition are entirely failing to manage with gang numbers up 20-30% under this govt . Gangs primarily predate the poor , living in lower socio economic areas far from the leafy green suburbs that left wing politicians , their academic mates , media luvvies and you inhabit . The let-them-eat-cake catch-and-release approach of the coalition to managing crime hurts our countries poorest the most . Bridges was a crown prosecutor who has been involved with 100 's of criminal cases - both the ones that make it to court and the ones that do n't . Is there anyone in parliament who has more direct experience of criminal activity in NZ ? I am going to trust his judgement more than your 's or the perennial failure Little 's . <p> People join gangs willingly . They are not forced ; they can leave . Why do they join organisations that promise violence and trouble with the law and alienation from the general public ? Because they are desperate to belong . It is a need for love . Maybe the NZ establishment wants a society that is fragmented ? The govt just throws more benefits at these problems but does not actually tackle them by strengthening the family unit . <p> Young men join gangs due to their tribal , violent instincts and desire for power and reward without work . Same as has always motivated young men towards violence and revolution . Love has nothing to do with it . Their is nothing worthy or noble or sympathetic about it . They are organisations that exist to predate and exploit innocents in our society increasing the misery of all they interact with , rapacious thugs who lack empathy for anyone not in their tribe . Eg 20-30% of gang members are recorded child abusers . <p> While I agree with you on taking personal responsibility , it 's not nearly as simple as that . If you are young and Maori growing up in rural NZ , you have the deck stacked against you . Load 's of risk factors , low decile schools and few , if any , role models . 65% of NZ 's jail population are Maori and Pacifica men . It 's a disgraceful stat . Young men join gangs for a variety of reasons , but mostly they feel locked out society . I consider myself a reasonable person and I 've become quite resentful of the use of Maori imagery to promote brand New Zealand , the international arrivals at our airports through to the Orr at the RBNZ ( try spotting a brown face there ) . Even Australia put 's indigenous applicants to the front of the queue on state jobs and spends more per capita on indigenous affairs . <p> What you are suggesting , policies to manufacture equality of outcomes , is the absolute worst way to try and run any society , because the only way to achieve it is by unfair practices that ham-string higher achievers - and they wo n't tolerate it as voters and if forced on them they will leave making the country worse off . Equality of opportunity is what really matters . Maori ' culture ' enabled by apologists that promote abrogation of personal responsibility does massive harm to Maori , giving them favored status and subsidies in 100 ways is equally destructive . Compare for example their stats vs much higher achieving Pacific Island Immigrants . The difference is in the culture of personal responsibility . Blaming others for your failures and waiting for handouts just makes you a life long failure and loser - which is obvious when you see recent immigrants who have had to learn english quickly rising to outperform Maori . <p> You 've missed my point completely Foyle and those quota 's already exist ( female board quota 's for example ) . Why would recent immigrant arriving to NZ have the same rights as the indigenous people who were colonised ? It 's not about handouts , it 's about education , role models and access to good quality education . You also generalise a lot about Maori . I 'm actually not a fan or quota 's , welfare and I advocate personal responsibility . You appear to generalise Maori as lazy welfare beneficiaries and that 's not the case . <p> I agree , after all Maori are only the other half of the Ti Tiriti right ? I was listening to Jim Bolger , former PM on RNZ during the week talking about pathways of excellence that was a programme run out of Waikato Uni and the spectacular results it acheived . Many of my Maori compatriots have gone on to do truly inspiring things with their lives , sometimes I feel quite ' run of the mill ' by comparison but I have always admired their willingness to take time to make sure everyone is in the waka , if possible , benefiting everyone , if you get my drift ? Its my current thought that neo liberalsim simply makes people selfish and greedy , there must be a better way . <p> Yes it 's quite counter the western capitalist culture . Far more focus on consensus building and for the long-term rather than the short-term . Maori are generally humble and shy away from leadership ( a few notable exceptions ) . It feels like the western resouce driven capitalist model is hitting the buffers . Any way , you sound like a good sort 4thE , NZ is a better place with people like you in it . <p> Quotas , as another awful expression of identity politics , are toxic . Bestowing legal privilege based on things you ca n't work to change - parentage ( ethnicity ) or genitalia is just evil and regressive . This is the 21st century not the 19th . Those ' colonised ' were all dead 150 years ago and to give special rights , privilege and status based on who your great great great great grandparents were is beyond farcical . Rapidly worsening negative stats for Maori over last 2-3 generations suggest coddling , infantalizing and abrogating responsibility for personal attainment ( the " bigotry of low expectations " ) by sanctioning ' victimhood ' has actually hurt them terribly , condemning increasing numbers to empty lives at the bottom . Stats are inherently generalized , and clearly indicate that Maori are much more likely to be criminals or beneficiaries than other ethnicities in NZ . It seems pretty clear that it 's because so many have bad parents - something extensive welfare has created , and which the state is incapable of substituting for ( it takes 100000 hours of care to raise a kid ) . As Thomas Sowell said : " Welfare helps politicians , not the poor " <p> So what 's your substitute for welfare ? And do you seriously not get what effect colonization has on native people ? It 's not a surprise that the outcomes we 're seeing are repeated worldwide . It 's not because they 've been mollycoddled or because they ca n't take personal responsibility , it 's because they 've been systematically dicked and the cultural response from people like you is to punish them . Seriously though , what 's your wonderful solution that is going to fix everything ? <p> There is n't the space here , nor do I have the time , to try and bring to light what it means to be born Maori in a rural community in New Zealand . You do n't just " move on " and dismiss what happened 150 years ago - European New Zealanders and Maori signed a binding partnership to share in New Zealand 's future . That contract was breached relentlessly over the following 150 years - both in principle and legally . We will all benefit if we can improve the fortune and prospect of Maori - why do n't you try lifting us up rather than the survival of the fittest approach you advocate . We need to break the cycle and it requires education , role models and opportunity . <p> If people do n't understand colonisation , they need only visit other Countries where it has occurred . Go see it in Ireland , Wales and Scotland as a good start ... white people colonised by white people with horrendous effects . By the way you 'll see signs with two or three languages on them and a proud indigenous culture as well . Got the picture yet NZ ... so racist . <p> Fundamentally gangs today largely are the consequence of decades and generations of failed socio-economic policy . The disenfranchisement of too many of the middle and lower classes . The impacts of the ' free market ' economy and the pillaging of jobs that did not require academic qualifications but still offered a reasonable standard of living and possibly a career path , and for many Maori , the rampant pillaging of their land through underhanded colonial practices despite policies to the contrary . Task Force Raptor is just another elitist response to proletariat rebellion . <p> Excuse making and enablement of this type only exacerbate the problem . My ancestors being disposed from the land 170 years back ( highland clearances ) has zero impact on me . Grownups have to own their own choices and outcomes . We have essentially full employment at the moment - jobs for anyone who makes the basic effort required - and non-academic tradesmen frequently earn &gt;$100k with 10-20 years experience . What has really screwed Maori in NZ is welfare that has enabled the infantalization and irresponsibility of young Maori adults , failing to grow-up and become responsible in their community has lost stigma . The lazy listless existence that they fall into as a result makes them self-loathing and miserable - huge Maori youth suicide is a result . Welfare is cancer . <p> My family history is largely the same as yours , but to argue that is too speciously simple and ignores human psychology . Yes a small number , ourselves included , CHOOSE not to be hindered by our familial past . But most people do not or can not do this , and many Maori remain rooted in their whakapapa . <p> Taking the Maori issue first . When the vote was first given in NZ it was based on landholding . The problem then was that the largest group of land owners where Maori , so the colonial Governments set out to actively dispossess Maori of their tribal lands . The truth and consequences are well document through the Waitangi Tribunal . The consequences are a people with an agrarian culture being disconnected from their culture and tikanga , and virtually being forced to become urban to be able to earn a living . As a result there grew a certain antipathy towards all thing ' pakeha ' . this was assisted by more than a few atrocities committed by colonial militias . ( Conveniently in this debate atrocities committed during inter tribal wars are generally forgotten ) this antipathy is now multi-generational and is today being additionally boosted by the political movement that sees the Treaty of Waitangi as a pot of gold , at least for Maori elites . Thus angry Maori youth have children they are not fit to parent , and who resort to drugs , crime and violence like their parents , and a part of this picture are the gangs . <p> For the rest the introduction of Rogernomics , or the ' free market ' economy pillaged jobs mostly at the bottom of the pile . these jobs were the ones that people leaving school with no or few qualifications could get into at a reasonable level of pay . these jobs were exported leaving nothing for many school leavers , and even older workers who lose their jobs for a variety of reasons . This compounded the Maori problems identified above but brought a lot of others into the picture . So we have an angry world of disenfranchised people , who the elites just want to stomp down with their jackboots ! <p> These was a tonne of injustice done to Maori in 19th and early 20th century , just as there was to the ancestors of pretty much everyone the whole world over , injustice was rampant . But you ca n't fix the injustices of history by creating new injustice now - screwing over one group of citizens to advantage based on a genetic pretext . The transition from poor 1970 's overbearing statism to prosperous 2000 's NZ was hard on many , but is now long past . We are enjoying full employment where basically anyone who wants a job can get one - if they show up to work reliably . Is there any evidence that pushing Maori culture to fore is actually producing better outcomes for Maori ? Do Maori integrating into Australia do better on average than in NZ ? <p> I disagree . Race-based discrimination in NZ is almost entirely gone . We all have friends and workmates with a wide variety of ethnicities . NZ is extremely egalitarian so if you are failing in this society it is on you , and to some extent your parents if they failed to educate you , you get the same access to opportunities as everyone else , and even if your childhood was awful you can fix it as an adult . <p> Well if you take a look at the Aboriginal community in Straya , there are many parallels to the situation with Maori here . So to say that its time to shape up and start behaving after decades of disenfranchisement and neglect is rather ignorant <p> Would you ever tell your children that they are never going to be as good at maths as their ( insert preferred ethnicity ) classmates ? Humans need to be pushed to achieve their best . Blaming others when you fail just sets you up for further failure and ultimately misery . Pushing the victimhood narrative strips individuals of agency and erects psychological barriers inimicable to their development - comfortable lazy excuses to make failure and under-performance OK . It does tremendous lasting damage to the people you want to help and inevitably diminishes their achievements . The identitarian left is hobbling the people they ostensibly want to help . <p> So what just cut support ties and thrown back into the cold ? Many argue that they have a right to blame others as they have caused them harm and therefore to fail . The language itself was nearly exterminated through the education system . I see plenty of good come from providing support through various iwi that creates opportunity for young Maori people to make a decent go of it in the contemporary setting . Sure not everyone becomes a scholar but it provides opportunity that generations before have missed out on . Seems to me you have the typical lazy Maori prejudice many NZers have . <p> The majority of Maori are somewhere on the spectrum from doing OK to great in NZ , only about 8% unemployed , but they are heavily over-represented amongst the failures , 6x as many criminals and 80% single mums ( 35% for rest of population ) . I think the best way to improve things is to motivate lower socio-economic kids and their parents to do well at school . Rewards kids and parents financially the better they do . Pocket money for kid , lifestyle boost for parents . A few $1000/year per kid would be far far cheaper than being the welfare/incarceration ambulance at the bottom of the wasted education cliff and a lifetime of cost to the taxpayer . And if all the kids in low decile schools were so motivated then the culture of those schools would become one of striving rather than pulling down those who try . <p> No . Maori benefit from rediscovering their identity and strong family ties . They benefit from being allowed to blend traditional values with modern education and technology not cash handouts . I do n't think you have in the slightest any idea on the intangible value of culture to a community . Your idea of cash bonuses is laughable at the least <p> Your faith-based assertion that it 's all about culture has been tried for the best part of a generation . The stats are n't improving , it is n't working . Traditional maori values and huge education system focus on Maori culture show little sign of saving people at the margins - the endless cases of child abuse that come out of kids raised by whanau is a case in point , not something we see much of in other NZ ethnicities . We have other models that provably work for the rest of the community , eg Pacific Island families in NZ ; Mum and Dad working together to raise the kids and a lot of structure and involvement and effort to raise the kids well . Madness is trying the same thing over and over and expecting a different result . <p> So your cash handout strategy is working as intended ? Culture is everything in society . It dictates how we treat one another . Take for example culture within an organisation in a business context . The leadership create and nurture culture . Bad culture = poor morale , poor staff retention and limited productivity . Good culture = good morale , good staff retention and improved productivity . Not hard to understand . I notice your other comment regarding pacific island folk . So you 're saying that Maori parents do n't both work ? And that Pacific Island communties do n't have the same issues all other communities at the fringe experience ? <p> I really think the way they report statistics on ethnicity in NZ is flawed , likely based more on skin-tone than ethnicity . Many Maori have equal if not more European ancestry , but if dark skinned , they are reported likely as Maori . I 've got 5 mixed race grandchildren - three very fair , one a bit dark and one a lot darker . If asked , they 'd all say part Maori , part European but how do you think they 'd be classified by race for statistical purposes on that basis ? I 've never seen a form , or any statistical reporting with mixed race options . So , if you tick two boxes ( Maori and NZ European ) , then how are you counted by stats ? <p> I suggest to anyone who thinks they are Mr Know it all where gangs are concerned , if they have n't , watch the movie " The Dark Horse " . Watch it for the performance of Wayne Hapi who was a gang member , and plays one . You just might begin to understand that behind all of that are people , broken people mostly , just trying to belong somewhere and to something . The great clobbering machine will do nothing to address the why of gangs , but that is what has to be addressed . <p> Simon is not a fascist , in fairness . He 's not possessing of great character or integrity , but he is no fascist . <p> In fact , the last thing National have shown themselves to be is nationalist in any form . They 've been the most eager to see NZ sold out from under NZers , based on their track record , and the keenest to give away wealth from natural resources with no benefit flowing to NZers ( fresh water ) . <p> The closest Simon has ever come to fascism is his cringe worthy kowtowing to the Communist Party of China recently . <p> Bridges is n't a fascist as that would require him having something resembling a backbone . He 's more like a slimy used car salesman or sleazy real estate agent , for sale to the highest bidder may they be CCP or radical right wing or big business . He has no values other then the mighty $ . <p> I doubt Corbyn ever went into it with that intention , he is among the most honest politicians I have observed in 40 years . However I hope the outcome is as you predict and there is every change you are right . <p> We can learn to be more aware of the barrage of propaganda from the media . Everybody should read Noam Chosmky 's " Manufacturing Consent " in high school to reduce the effectiveness of the tactics and provide people with the necessary lenses to minimise the democracy corrupting effects of media manipulation . Corbyn was constantly the target of smear and character assassination campaigns , which seemed to work despite the methods often being contradicting or irrelevant . <p> The centrist Blair was the only Labour leader to win an election in the last 45 years . But the hard left are capable of a literally insane level of self-delusion , and believe that when failing hard by being too far left for the electorate the thing you really need to do is double down and go further left - like they did in NZ 2011 , 2014 to worsening election results , and like they are doing now in USA with 2nd and 3rd place Sanders/Warren likely consigning Democrats to another election loss ( Biden being unlikely to go the distance ) . <p> I think , had there been no leadership change in the UK Conservative party , Teresa May would have struggled to get re-elected . UK Labour 's refusal to work with her to get Brexit over-the-line was a tactical mistake . Same goes for the legislative obstructionist tactics of the US Democrats , it is likely to return Trump . <p> The population generally wants government to make progress - no matter whether that progress is directly to their liking . No one enjoys stalemate . <p> Interestingly , despite the commentariat caterwauls here on this site , the reasons why people voted against UK Labour were 1 ) leader and 2 ) stance on Brexit : https : **25;3333;TOOLONG Left leaning economic policies were far , far less of a factor . <p> Not quite right . The reasons why they lost , in order of importance . 1 ) Absolutely relentless media smears , lies and attacks from every part of media on the planet . Particularly the BBC and the " liberal " Guardian . 2 ) The Blairites still lurking in the Labour Party sticking the knife in on a daily basis . 3 ) The extremely powerful Israeli propagandists ( hasbara ) around the world attacking from every angle . Finally , Brexit . He had to try and appease those in his own party , but this was fatal . The majority of those who voted to leave would be core Labour who are sick of being shafted by politicians . Corbyn was the first decent and honest politician in many decades . Certainly the first who actually cared about people . <p> Brexit resulted from increasing interference by the Evil Union in domestic affairs mirrored across Europe with similar results - Yellow Vests in France , Catalonia , Italy 's political chaos and the AFD in Germany neutering Merkel and the European Court of Injustice bias against anything threatening the commission . Should Donald increase pressure on EU in the form of tariffs and a crack in the ECB 's monetary stuff ups cause international money markets to wreck havoc on the Euro the collapse of the EU may follow much quicker than foreseeable . This whole mess will become very ugly and those responsible or perceived to be will feel the wrath of their electors in tangible ways and it will hurt . <p> Ocelot , I can assure you that the barrage of propaganda went both ways . Boris and Theresa were both subject to daily character assassination and ridicule . It 's funny though , I never seen anyone showing sympathy for the level of hate and ridicule that Theresa May was subject too . <p> I have been left of centre my whole life in most areas . But I can not stomach the utter hypocrisy of the lefts constant pleas to victimhood anymore . I have seen all my Labour voting friends inflict daily abuse online at Tory voters and politicians . <p> In the UK , media and social media abuse is the norm . Tabloid harassment is the norm . I do n't like it , it 's disgraceful but to pretend that only one side do it , is a nonsense . They are both as bad as each other . <p> No you ca n't " assure " anyone that it went both ways . I can give you a very long list of examples of deliberate anti Corbyn propaganda that was on the BBC , in the Guardian , and every other media outlet in the UK on a daily basis . You will struggle to find a trickle of anti Bojo propaganda in the mainstream media . Do n't count social media . They do n't control that . Yet . Feel free to give me examples of anti Bojo in the mainstream . For every one you might find I 'll find ten that target Corbyn . <p> Corbyn blocked every attempt by the Tory Govt to leave/remain in Europe. ( who really knows ) . They offered nothing in response and the voters saw them as disruptors and no more . Labour got what they deserve .... nothing . <p> ... yup . . No one knew where he stood on Brexit ... he had a golden opportunity back when PM Theresa May called a snap election ... anti-Brexit fervour was red hot then ... he could 've positioned Labour as a vote to remain in the EU ... but he did n't grab that chance ... his fault for lack of clarity , lack of guts ... <p> Heck what was the referendum then , if not a democratic process . A vote by the north of London , against the London establishment and immigration as well . Any party that then decided to veto Brexit , or even weasel about it , was going against democracy and was always going to be on the end of a furious backlash from the Brexit voters and those regions of the electorate . That is exactly what has happened to Labour and exactly what they deserved . <p> Corbyn was certainly unpopular among some but it was Brexit fatigue that lost them the election . Even remainers wanted to move on . The working class leave voters in the north and midlands blamed the EU and immigration for their plight rather than the previous 9 years of Tory austerity and the Blair government before that . <p> I saw a woman interviewed by Channel 4 in a northern marginal who said she switched from Labour to Conservative because " they 've done nothing around here for us for years " . The Conservatives had been in power for 9 years ! <p> I do not understand the eulogising of Jacinda Ardern 's supposed leadership . Certainly she has popularity , as John Key had , but popularity is not the same as leadership . Was Key - for all his popularity - a leader ? He has never seemed to me to have a principled bone in his body , and his successors - without the cover of Key 's affability - are in plain daylight repugnant . Is Ardern a leader ? Or is she simply adept , like Key , at a kind of emotional signalling ? Leadership is about mettle - applied to more than one 's personal presentation . <p> Ardern want 's to be everyone 's friend and avoids conflict like crazy . Understandable , but makes for a terrible leader and manager - which is what the job of being PM is all about . Endless parade of appalling failures by her Ministers with entirely supine response from Ardern , she 's an empathetic emoting face on camera , but no leader . <p> Does she need to be a leader ? Just leave Andrew Little and James Shaw to work away quietly achieving whatever their aims are . Far better to have her waffle and smiling PR as a distraction from those making hard and therefore unpopular decisions . I do n't blame her - the trouble may be a lack of talent in her cabinet but that is no reason for Ms Ardern to attempt to make all the decisions herself ( heaven forbid ) . Howeveer if she does want to be re-elected she needs some decisions - the public is getting tired of every issue being kicked down the road into another report from another committee . <p> Jesus , is this what the left wingers have come down to in this country ? They are soo hard labour that they are willing to have some unelected person in charge of making significant changes to the country because their so-called leader is n't a leader at all . Good times definitely seem to have created weak men in this country : ) <p> She has amazing leadership abilities to my mind . You have to be a leader to take on the leadership mantle a couple of months out from an election and arm yourself with a ' Let 's Do This ' campaign slogan . What better to mobilise the troops ? <p> Then managing to negotiate her way into forming a government with two diametrically opposed minor parties - pure tactical brilliance . And the country has n't looked foolish in the eyes of the rest-of-the-world for being led by a relatively inexperienced 30 year old - quite the opposite - we 're a beacon of hope for the style of leadership so many are looking for in their own countries from the next generation of world leaders . <p> Leadership is no longer about " mettle " in the vein of Thacherism ( i.e. , the Iron Lady ) . Radical , ideological ( re ) direction is n't what electors are looking for - neither do they want the status quo . They want collaboration , not mettle - collaboration being an ability to move forward and effect change , coupled with sincerity and compassion in recognition of the fact that the world is a divided and unfair place . So , a negotiator who can bring disparate sides together as a means to make progress , is to my mind what Ardern has proven herself more than capable of . <p> Just think of the many actions of governance by the Coalition that the National Party have also backed and you 'll get my drift on the style of leadership of Jacinda Ardern . <p> Ardern negotiated squat . Winston never had any intention of going with National - he 'd surreptitiously launched personal legal proceedings against them before election and was after utu . Ardern has never demonstrated any competence in management or negotiation , in fact quite the opposite when you look at how NZF is riding roughshod over the coalition and nothing positive happening in international relations . Labour surged in polls when Ardern took over only because Greens were melting down over support of Meteria Turei 's fraud that came out the same week . Green+Labour vote did not change significantly . She was aided by a highly supportive media talking her up ( 62% NZ media in 2014 self identified as left vs 16% right , a 4:1 ratio , election same year was 4:5 left:right , so media 5x higher proportion of left wing than general public , there is huge left wing bias in journalism ) There is also the well known ' honeymoon ' factor - Labour 's support dropped again in first poll post election as greens picked up again , Labour picked Ardern 's appointment date to capitalize on that . <p> You obviously do n't have a lot of int'l friends and relations - all those I know have come to place NZ on a bit of a pedestal , most particularly because they believe our government is not captured by special interest and corporate money . <p> Neither do I see NZF riding roughshod over the coalition . If they were we 'd not have had the oil/gas exploration ban ; nor the implementation of the Zero Carbon Act ; nor the changes to firearms laws ; nor the dumping of the 90 day trial ; nor the minimum wages rise ; nor the implementation of many social/welfare initiatives , such as the baby bonus , first year free tertiary , banning of rental agency fees , etc. etc . <p> What I see is that the coalition partners are all getting their own individual top policy priorities implemented by Cabinet . They are all winning . <p> I agree that a lot of forrins view our PM favorably - so long as they are of the left , but the PM 's personal branding operations aside the attitudes and policies of foreign govts towards us is a different matter . I ca n't recall any positive developments in NZ 's international relations under Ardern , ( probably there are some ) , but I do remember that she has managed to annoy the leadership of Australia ( Manus island ) US ( some dumb comment about Trump ) and China ( Huawei 5G ban ) for no benefit - itself pointing to her immaturity . If you have n't got something nice to say do n't say anything is of much greater benefit than needlessly annoying them . Do n't poke the bear . Clark and Key maintained and developed far better relationships . <p> Kate , when our family wants to avoid any task , they say " Let 's do this " . Collaboration is part of MMP ; it is no particular quality of Ardern 's . I do not believe she is a ' beacon of hope ' for a style of leadership desired elsewhere in the world . She , like Macron or Trudeau in their first years , comes with a youthful , apparently accessible face of promise - but little more known substance than an instagram post . Voters may not be looking for radical ideological redirection but , in my experience , thoughtful citizens and the educated young seek more than displays of empathy in environments of growing , often extreme , uncertainty in social values , geopolitical and environmental rupture , and in family and personal prospects . Political leadership in this unfolding age will take great mettle - principled conviction - whether in a force for steadiness or for change . I see a reliance on emotional projection , and see this as insufficient . <p> I agree this is a time of extreme , uncertainty in social values , geopolitical and environmental rupture . <p> And this coalition government have taken major steps to reduce environmental harm ; major steps toward reversing social inequity ; and relatively behind the scenes , but nonetheless firm steps in terms of instilling our values/opinions in geopolitical matters . <p> I 'm curious as to what kind of radical steps you think we need to take ? <p> Kate , the two umbrella issues requiring political mettle ( and I see these as the two issues on which this government was elected ) are housing and immigration . On these trail a host of social and business ills . Neither the health our economy nor that of our society has need for tens of thousands of low-skilled immigrants in low-value , often low-principled , employment . We have direct experience of these via volunteering : people with no more than primary education , little or no English , and the ambition to work in a nail-bar or liquor store . Surely , if growth is an objective , it should be growth in GDP per capita , lifting family well-being . Yet GDP per capita drifts with its keel in the air . More people , no better-off . Wealthier immigration , along with the direct import of overseas funds ( still easy to accomplish ) , further underpins property price inflation - itself a direct cause of poverty and homelessness , of which we have plenty to be ashamed of . I suggest that issues such as our infrastructure deficit , ill-health , educational non-achievement , criminality , waste of talent here and its loss overseas , continuing environmental degradation , even our culture of fair-go and neighbourly assistance , and much more , would all benefit substantially from principled , rigorous , disciplined attention to housing delivery and immigration policy . <p> What they have done is banned foreign buyers of residential property ; banned RE agents charging fees to tenants ; required LLs to make their products healthy for the inhabitants ; restricted rent rises to once yearly ; dumped the requirement for HNZ to return a profit to the government ( and made huge capital injections by way of new borrowing by the SOE ) ; laid the groundwork for a coherent , whole-of-government housing policy going forward ( the merger of 3 institutions into one ) . <p> On immigration - would you have them can the immigration points system altogether ? <p> On immigration , they have regulated low-value PTIs out of our int'l education marketplace ; reset the parent category rules to attract and retain high-value skilled immigrants to our shores ; clamped down on exploitation of migrant workers ; amended/tightened significantly the post-study work rights ; added building occupations to the skills shortage list and dumped a number of low-skill/bogus categories from it . <p> I still do n't know what ' mettle ' ( i.e. , big ticket , bold changes ) you want applied on these issues . <p> In each case , look for the vested interests in maintaining the roots of current social failure and break them . On housing : address the systemic and structural barriers to affordable contemporary housing : from local government through to building systems and suppliers . New Zealand houses are built like garden sheds and priced , from the ground up , like palaces . On immigration , two things : get the companies that want cheap immigrant labour to contribute to the costs of it - which currently fall on society - and so show that it 's requisite and of value . Many employers ( and I 'm a business owner and investor ) would find they did n't need immigrant labour after all . Many such claims are sham and the businesses worthless . Where that 's the case , the country would be better off without them . The first benefit , where new employees are required , should be to our Pacific neighbours . Also address overseas student education , which , as a consultant to Victoria asserted to me recently , is not about education but about immigration for one party and fees for the other . Enough for one day . <p> The Labour-led govt is not doing very much to rein in immigration . Numbers are sky high and RNZ reported today that NZ Bus has brought in 32 drivers this year from overseas on Essential Skills Work Visas ... https : **31;3360;TOOLONG ... Can NZ Bus really not find 32 people who can be trained to drive buses ? It was a job that friends of mine used to do as university students . It 's hardly rocket science ... and in those days drivers had to give change to most passengers as well , whereas now it 's automated . I think what most of us imagine " Essential Skills " to be does not include driving buses ... And this is happening under a Labour-led govt ! It is shameful for a party whose origins lie in protecting work and conditions for the working class . <p> If you do n't like the colonisation of the West Bank , blame the Palestinians . They were given the opportunity to return to the pre-1967 borders , but the PLO was n't interested in peace - then and now they want to wipe Israel from the map and drive the Jews into the sea ( the ones they do n't kill , that is ) . <p> And talk of ethnic cleaning is just Jew-hating rhetoric . There are plenty of Arabs in Israel , enjoying the full benefits of citizenship . In fact , they have some privileges that most Jewish Israelis do not - like not having to serve in the military . <p> Are n't Zionist expansionists driving the Palestinians into the sea ? How is the PLO going to drive a nuclear power into the sea ? Your shrill accusation of Jew hating does disservice to the many people who identify with Jewish culture as opposed to Illegal and immoral Zionist expansion at the expense of the Palestinian people . <p> The PLO ca n't wipe Israel of the map and drive Jews into the sea - they want the Arab powers and Iran to do it for them . <p> The point is though , Israel could utterly destroy the West Bank and Gaza and drive all Palestinians into the sea , but they do n't want to do it . <p> The Palestinians , on the other hand , do want to destroy Israel and kill the Jews/drive them into the sea . They make no secret of that . It has always been their desire , and they have never renounced it . <p> You want peace and justice for the Palestinians ? Start with removing Fatah and Hamas from the equation , and let the Palestinian people enjoy the opportunities presented to them . <p> Abba Eban 's words are as true now as when he uttered them 40-odd years ago : " The Palestinians never missed an opportunity to miss an opportunity " . <p> " Modern Israel was established perfectly lawfully " According to which law : Israeli law ! Suggest you bone up on the actual history a bit , starting with 1948 . Recommend Robert Fisk for a little light reading to wake you up a bit . And Ilan Papp ? <p> You need to bone up on history before 1948 . You appear not to be aware of the Balfour Declaration and the League of Nations ' endorsement of it . Nor do you appear to be aware of UN Resolution 181 in 1947 . <p> True it was ' Legal ' in the sense that a whole lot of powerful nations banded together to push it on the Palestinians , and ultimately law is made by those with the guns to force the issue . I support Israel , and it 's continued existence because you ca n't fix the wrongs of 70 years back today and they are a good democracy that looks after the welfare and happiness of their citizens well ( unlike some of their neighbours ) , but the methods of it 's founding were pretty egregiously unjust to the Palestinians , and the behavior of Jewish founders of Israel was terrible , they were terrorists . <p> Labour 's strategists , having seen how little it mattered that Boris was caught telling the most outrageous fibs ( and hiding in refrigerated lorries ! ) will be reassured that their instincts about Jacinda have been proved correct . If your own side loves their leader to bits , and even your opponents secretly warm to her empathy and positivity , then nothing more is needed . Flood every media platform with Jacinda 's face , and her most affective video clips , sit back , and wait for the votes to roll in . <p> affective / ? ' f ? kt ? v/ Learn to pronounce adjectivePSYCHOLOGY relating to moods , feelings , and attitudes . " affective disorders " denoting or relating to mental disorders in which disturbance of mood is the primary symptom . <p> It looked just at every paid-for Facebook ad from the three main UK-wide parties run over the first four days of December : <p> - for the Conservatives , it said that 88% ( 5,952 ) of the party 's most widely promoted ads either featured claims which had been flagged by independent fact-checking organisations including BBC Reality Check as not correct or not entirely correct . <p> - for the Lib Dems , it said hundreds of potentially misleading ads ... <p> - for Labour , it said that it could not find any misleading claims in ads run over the period ... <p> - The Kiwibuild pricing which was repeatedly challenged as being unreasonable . It was immediately changed following the election despite Labour insisting the figures were sound during the campaign . - The constant claims that National had ' cut funding ' despite spending increasing with each successive budget . <p> That 's before you get into the actual delivery of the policies , many of which were fantastical to begin with . Light Rail by 2020 ? This is going to be the world 's fastest roll-out of a transport network ever . But I would agree that 's more a case of ' bait and switch ' and not ' outright lies ' such as the above . <p> Agree a couple of those where the effort seems to have been a bit desultory that they need to find their courage and determination and act . Getting Twyford out of anything important seems to be an important first step towards those . <p> I would argue that the bigger " lie " was misleading statements on immigration followed by record levels of immigration . They 'd technically argue they did n't promise to reduce volumes , but certainly plenty of statements were made , including Little 's to " take a breather " while waiting for infrastructure to catch up . <p> Overall I would prefer we have sincere statements where there is real intent and effort to achieve , even if they fail , to blatant Tory-style propaganda on social media etc . <p> " In total , these changes are estimated to reduce net migration by 20,000-30,000 . Without these changes there would be up to 10,000 more houses needed and up to 20,000 more vehicles on our roads annually . Our immigration system will be regularly reviewed to ensure it is functioning well . " <p> Reading the English language , the promise is " these changes " , not the estimated effect . So the question is whether they have implemented those changes . <p> However , I counted also the election trail rhetoric which was more powerfully stated too ( e.g. my reference to Little 's statements ) . So I myself extended the scope beyond those changes promised on the website . <p> Labour spread their lies and propaganda via their grass roots movement , which , I might add , in the UK , is a veritable army . I know this because several of my friends , ex school friends , work colleagues etc are members . My facebook and twitter newsfeeds were flooded daily with hate , absolute hate and propaganda from the left , i 'm not sure I even know any Tory voters ! The image that Labour attempted to sell for Corbyn was that he was the last honest man in Britain and some kind of Saint , as this was supposed to be the antidote to the " dirty Tories " and " Blair spin " . So sure , the official Labour adverts were honest and above board , but the grass roots movement coming out of the Momentum group was just as nasty and underhand . I saw Labour friends organising to threaten , abuse and defame . And of course , I could n't say a thing , because had I , I would have been harassed and hounded off the internet as a Tory-sympathiser . Which I am not by the way , I voted to block a Tory MP . However , the truth does n't matter anymore , the UK has gone full tribal division and both sides are tearing shreds off the other . <p> You seem to be unable to distinguish between a statement made prior to / during the election that is factually incorrect ( lying ) and an election promise that is not adhered to or delivered . They are two very different things . <p> The price of Kiwibuild was not deliverable at the price they repeated over and over again to anyone who would listen was doable . They repeatedly said National ' cut ' health funding . Neither of these things were true . Ergo , lies . Unless people can just promise any old bullshit with zero basis in reality , and your argument is that 's somehow less dishonest ? <p> Any info or quote on that question I had re " cut funding " ? Was it a reference to reduced per capita health spending ? Would like to see it otherwise the concern is it could be a simple talkback Leightonism . <p> All possibly true Chris , but it does n't explain the Lib-Dems utter failure . They were the mildly left of centre/remain party and they got a kicking . As for relying on polls to give you a read on what policies people support , think again . With another failure by pollsters to anticipate an anti-progressive landslide , it is obvious that ordinary people are too scared to give their true opinions thanks to the very visible harassment of people who do n't believe in the progressive agenda . <p> Too much focus on the person CT , and while it maybe true to an extent , remember that to vote for the Tories was also a vote for Brexit . So ask why the Lib-Dems failed too ? They did n't want to quit the Eurozone . Was it too hard to get on a platform of creating jobs for Brits without the risk of them being stolen by immigrants flooding across non-existent borders ? Is it too hard to admit the modern ' free market ' economic model is failing the people , and a new solution needs to be found ? <p> I think the UK election was to a large degree decided by revulsion at mechanations of Remainers in parliament leading up to the election . Tradespeople in NZ earn much more than they do in UK - not competing with eastern european workers . Remainers predominantly belong to the economically protected classes who 's jobs depend on english fluency and tertiary academic qualifications . Open borders give them cheap laborers that make servicing their lifestyles cheaper . Working class are the ones that suffered , and so quite sensibly voted leave . As in NZ Labour no longer represent the working class . <p> Borris won on one message , three words get brexit done its a bit like trump , people say one thing then behind closed doors or in the polling booth they vote for what they really think . its the same here for NZ first and why they get over 5% each time as they are seen as the party that is anti immigration and I have no doubt they will get in again <p> I think you may be right re NZF . Take a walk anywhere in NZ and you will quickly see that the woke SJW types are noisy but well and truly outnumbered by the Silent voters which is why politicians dislike referenda . I 'd say there 's a good chance that the Marijuana referendum will be a ' No ' . <p> In 2017 , some here ( supposedly swing voters ) saw Ardern as the messiah who was going to deliver homes for all . Two years later , they still cling to hope while FHB are now priced out of many regional centres as well as the Auckland they could n't afford under the Nats . <p> So , perhaps Jacinda should also thank her lucky stars that , heading into Election Year , it is Labour that has the populist mojo -- not National . <p> No , they do not . It is Winston Peters that holds the populist mojo in NZ and we are coming into an election year . In about 3 months time Winston will start throwing his toys out of the cot - picking fights with his coalition partners . He will probably pitch a beefed up version of the hard line on gangs rhetoric and so by November position NZFirst as a viable opposition party . <p> A prediction for 2020 ... Winnie distances himself from the Greens particularly ... and also Labour ... but treads a fine line not to bring down the coalition ... <p> ... exhibit A : Labours backtracking on roads ! .... against the Greens desire to get vehicles off the roads ... Robertson is now flagging an increase in infrastructure spending , reopening the Gnats roads of national significance programme ... <p> How ? It makes them look like idiots . They delayed work programmes for two years , pointlessly , only to pull them out of the drawer once National started getting traction for nothing happening . It was the same with their cancer care announcement - it only came once National started scoring points on it . Otherwise , they were happy to sit there and claim the credit for being fiscally prudent by not delivering on their campaign promises . <p> Labour primarily scrapped road plans that National had planned but had not funded ( in their election budget ) . <p> Now this undermines National 's ability to deliver their economic and infrastructure policy in 2020 . <p> National have set a debt target of 20% GDP , a contrast to the historic aim of 10-15% under Joyce . This policy puts core crown debt to 21.5% in 2021/2022 . So for National to meet their debt targets and also deliver infrastructure promises , they either have to raise taxes or privatize Crown assets . There are n't many Crown assets left to privatise , and there is no recession to justify doing so this time around . Selling assets simply to pay for more assets is n't going to play that well with the electorate . Why should NZ give up Pharmac or ACC just for a few mroe roads ? <p> They will also struggle to raise taxes , because they have absolutely hounded the govt for raising taxes on petrol , National ca n't really tax consumption as they normally would so their only options are income tax or corporate tax . Both poisonous to their voter base . <p> It is ( as you note ) cynical politics from Labour , because it undermines National 's ability to deliver their platform . They ca n't do all three of : <p> Further to this , now see Bridges having to awkwardly label Labour 's infrastructure spending as " an election year bribe " while he himself tries to jump up and say National will be the " party of infrastructure " and introduce more tax to be so : Source : Warning , Granny Herald link . <p> So will Simon add more tax or more debt to try to outspend Labour on infrastructure now ? <p> Meanwhile , National is now adopting KiwiBuild ( albeit they 'll get rid of the label ) . <p> To me the strategies over the coming year are clear . The COL will say it needs more time to implement its policies . National will say that New Zealanders are fundamentally fair , gave the COL a chance , but failed to show competence and it 's time to back a party that can get things done . There does n't need to be a big policy gap , just a perception that only one can actually implement . I support neither . ACT is the party for me now as the COL were always untrustworthy , then the Nats joined them by colluding on the Gun laws and Carbon Zero . <p> You may be right that neither National ( their previous terms in government ) nor Labour will get much done . National might advertise that they will , but ... So it could depend on electorate memory , successful propaganda etc . IF ( biggish if ) Labour gets enough done in the next 9 months then Simon will likely continue to struggle . <p> I do n't mind ACT either save for the fact their libertarianism seems rather loosely held . <p> If this coalition want to finish the initiatives/work they have set up in this first term - they need to formulate a strategy that sees them working together further into the future - not point scoring against one another . <p> All gang up in opposition to National is the way they collectively need to go . That will suit NZ First and to my mind is key to getting them back into Parliament . <p> Really ? NZF 's core premise is that they swing both ways . To side with the left pre-election could split their vote and leave them sub 5% . Mind you , given this government has been a disaster , it would be pleasing to see Winston tie himself to it permanently and go down with the ship . He has been brilliant in knobbling it so far but we ca n't trust him to look after the Boomers as well as he has done so far . <p> The largest contingent of boomers/OAPs that vote for Winston have grandchildren that they know are finding it hard . Hence , Labour would be their favoured coalition partner - unless of course National come out with similar positive policies targeted at youth/young families . <p> Not something I knew anything about but a very small amount of google makes it clear you are misleading again Rick : https : **38;3393;TOOLONG ... Seems National sensibly questioned the early $3billion NZTA tunnel solution and saw it revised to a road + tunnel solution at close to half the projected cost . They then fast-tracked the project . Seems you 've got an axe to grind as usual , and do n't have much interest in balance/truth . <p> " pretty straightforward : do not embrace any policies even vaguely threatening to the neoliberal order -- including its principal defenders in the mainstream news media " Yep , this statement encapsulates how I feel , pretty much depressed and angry with the state of modern day politics . Corbyn was rare . He actually had the wherewithal to effect real change . <p> Corbyn was unelectable - far too radical for these times of change and uncertainity . People are scrambling to maintain status at all ends of the spectrum so develop more conservative values accordingly . <p> " But if Corbyn 's mildly social-democratic domestic policies would have occasioned barely a shrug in Norway , Denmark or Finland , " <p> Hardly ! Thinking the Scandinavian nations are socialist is a left wing trope . <p> Today they are low corporate tax regimes with a really strong sense of nationalism . The Danes make immigrants take a course and pass a test in Danish before they 're let loose on society and have recently cut welfare benefits . The Finns are building nuclear power stations and do n't let in ME immigrants . The Norwegian economy has been entirely bankrolled by it 's oil wealth and is staunchly nationalist . The Swedes operate an education voucher system whereby schools have to compete in a free marketplace for pupils . <p> The real tragedy here is that the cult of personality is so pervasive and Chris is endorsing it . I remember once reading that Abe Lincoln would never have been elected in a modern era . Apparently not great to look at and a terrible speaking voice . It 's a tragedy when superficiality reigns over substance . 
@@31506488 <h> Zionism 's quiet influence on our Foreign Relations <p> Thank you for your reply , dated 27 August , to our emails of 24 July and 1 August , regarding the purchase of military equipment from the Israeli company Robo-Team . We note with disappointment that your response failed to deal with the specific points we had raised . <p> May we ask you to clarify the final three paragraphs of your response : <p> " New Zealand is a strong advocate for protection of civilians and is maintaining a close eye on events in the Gaza Strip . We are deeply concerned about reports of actions against civilians and would urge all parties on the ground to avoid confrontation and exercise maximum restraint . " <p> TDB Recommends NewzEngine.com <p> You express deep concern over what you describe as " actions against civilians " and " urge all parties on the ground to avoid confrontation and exercise maximum restraint . " Have the Palestinian people no right to protest when their homes are being mercilessly destroyed by the Israeli Army of Occupation ? May we remind you of the UN News Press Release dated 23 July 2019andthe video of home demolitions . <p> The crimes committed by Israel in imposing and maintaining its military Occupation of the West Bank and East Jerusalem violate international law . The International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) , has ruled against Israel 's annexation Wallrunning inside the West Bank , including East Jerusalem . Yet these violations of human rights are being supported by the US , which is so often referred to as one of New Zealand 's ' traditional allies ' . <p> Surely , calling Israel to account for its violations of international law would serve the , as you put it , " protection of civilians " far better than simply urging restraint on the part of both the Occupying power and its victims ! Israel 's mighty military superiority over the Palestinian people is an indisputable fact . <p> " In terms of acquiring or updating military equipment , there is a commitment to supporting New Zealand industry where possible . However , there are systems and equipment that can not be sourced domestically so New Zealand engages with companies from other countries where required , through a commercial tendering process . " <p> We did not raise the question of support for New Zealand industry or the sourcing of requirements from other countries . <p> " The purchase you refer to was for robot systems to equip our explosive ordnance disposal teams based in Christchurch , Wellington and Auckland . These robot systems will be used primarily in support of the New Zealand Police for bomb disposal tasks , disposing of remnants of war in the Pacific and ensuring our personnel are safe on operations . " <p> We did not ask for information regarding the use of the systems and equipment being purchased . The company providing the equipment for New Zealand , Robo-Team , is an integral part of the Israeli Defence Force . Our concern is with the immorality of New Zealand contributing to the profitability of a company that provides equipment to support the Israeli Defence Force in its human rights abuses that include the illegal occupation of Palestinian land and the oppression of Gaza . <p> Earlier this year , on 6 April , the Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu gave an interview to Israel 's Channel 12 TV . He affirmed that " I am going to extend sovereignty " and " . . . I will not transfer sovereignty to the Palestinians . " In a separate interview the next day , Netanyahu vowed that he would add more housing units to settlements . " We 're going to continue controlling the entire territory west of the Jordan , " he said , in reference to the militarily-occupied West Bank . <p> What more appropriate example could there be for the application of Rule 44 than the proposed purchase of $9 million in military equipment from Israel ? Please stand by our country 's values and the recommendation of our Ministers of Foreign Affairs and Defence to " Support the maintenance of the international rules-based order , institutions and arrangements which enable conflict prevention and peace resolution . " <p> On 27 November , after almost three months had passed , the Minister of Defence finally responded to our request for clarification . Here is his complete reply : <p> " I would like to emphasise that our approach is one of engagement , and the Government is committed to supporting a two-state solution to the Israel-Palestine conflict . " <p> Why did the Defence Minister choose , yet again , not to answer direct questions ? Was it merely contempt ? Or was there something else ? <p> Reality check <p> At 8am on29 November , the Israeli Navy opened fire on Palestinian fishing boats off al-Sudaniya . They did so again at 8:30am . At 1:30pm , the Israeli Army opened fire on east Khuza'a . The Khuza'a community was attackedagain at 2pm , when Israeli fire killed a 16-year-old youth , Fahed Mohammad Waleed Al-Astal , and wounded five other people . At 4pm , Israeli forces opened fire on people in east Jabaliya and , at 6:20pm , the Israeli Army again opened fire on east Khuza'a . <p> At 8:50pm , after these six , unprovoked Israeli attacks Palestinian Resistance fighters launched a single missile across the Green Line . <p> Israeli forces , predictably , soon responded by hitting Gaza again and again with a further eight ceasefire violations . At 9:40pm the Israeli Navy shelled and opened live fire on Deir al-Balah . During the night , as early as 9:20pm , there were two Israeli air strikes . One hit north Beit Lahiya , the other struck the al-Shija'iya neighbourhood , injuring a resident . In the early hours of the following morning , at 1:10am , Israeli gunboats opened fire on Palestinian fishing boats off the al-Sudaniya area in west Beit Lahiya town . At 2:25am , an Israeli warplane launched three missiles into east Beit Lahiya . At 2:30am , Israeli gunboats opened fire on Palestinian fishing boats off Khan Yunis City . <p> The Israeli aggression ended with two attacks , carried out at 2:50am . Another Israeli air strike hit north Beit Lahiya while Israeli forces , positioned behind the Green Line , opened fire on east Gaza City . <p> From early morning , fourteen Israeli ceasefire violations hammered Palestinian communities and fishing boats , six of them from daybreak until evening , when Gaza Resistance finally made its small gesture of defiance . Never mind Israel 's unprovoked aggression and the death of a Palestinian youngster ; the slightest sign of Palestinian retaliation was more than enough , it seems , to bring Israeli air strikes raining down ! <p> In her film Gaza Fights For Freedom journalist Abby Martin , reveals the truth about Israel 's war crimes against Gaza . Exclusive footage , legal documentation and photographic evidence bear witness to the extent and nature of the carnage in which 200 unarmed civilians have been killed by Israeli snipers since 30 March 2018 . Abby Martin 's documentary reveals both the history of Gaza and its grim present , to which the mainstream news media turn a blind eye . Victims such as doctors , paramedics ( including the family of **25;13612;TOOLONG paramedic , Razan al-Najjar ) and journalists tell their stories . The film is a rebuke to all who would try to keep us from knowing the truth . <p> Update on Israel 's daily targeting of Gaza <p> On the first of day of December , there were four Israeli Gaza ceasefire violations , three of them saw the Israeli Navy opening fire on Palestinian fishing boats and , in a fourth violation , the Israeli Army opened fire on Gaza farmland . On the second and third of the month , there were three more Israeli ceasefire violations and nonereported the following day . On the fifth and sixth of December , Israeli forces carried out seven more ceasefire violations and , by now , there were 37 Palestinian wounded and injured . Then , on the seventh of December , Palestinian Resistance reacted to the Israeli violence , firing ( after two more Israeli attacks ) three missiles towards the Green Line at 20:55 . <p> In the small hours of the ensuing night , from just after midnight to 1:15am , Israeli air strikes resulted in 13 missiles hitting Gaza communities . During the rest of the eighth of December , no ceasefire violations were reported . On the ninthand tenth of December , the Israeli Navy and Army carried out two more attacks on civilian targets in Gaza . To sum up , in the first ten days of December , there was just one Palestinian ceasefire violation , resulting in three missile-firings , and 24 Israeli ceasefire violations , causing 37 Palestinian casualties . There were no Israeli casualties and yet Israeli propaganda would have the world believe that its violence against defenceless Gaza is solely in response to Palestinian missile attacks ! <p> Covering for Israel <p> In 2017 , an article published in the San Diego Jewish Worldcommented that : " Now that the membership of New Zealand 's Coalition Cabinet is known , there is reason for optimism that there will be a turn for the better in relations between New Zealand and Israel , which were soured last year when New Zealand voted for a United Nations Security Council condemning the Jewish State for its settlement policies and insisting on 1967 border . . . " The reason for optimism , the writer John McCormick declared , was the " result of a coalition agreement " between the New Zealand First Party and Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern 's Labour Party . The article also noted that " Peters and Mark are both long-standing members of Parliament 's Friends of Israel group ( PFI ) . " <p> Inarticulation <p> The Rights Forum , founded in 2009 by former Dutch Prime Minister Andreas van Agt , is a network of former ministers and professors of international law , who have joined forces to promote a just and durable solution to the Israel-Palestine conflict . An article published by the Forum on 9 December , written by John Dugard , Emeritus Professor of Law at the Universities of Leiden and Witwatersrand , and former Special Rapporteur on the Human Rights Situation in the Occupied Palestinian Territory , holds out little hope of bringing an end to the delay at the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) over the demand for an investigation into possible war crimes in the Occupied Palestinian Territories . <p> Dugard informs us that the ICC Prosecutor 's Office has now been conducting a " preliminary examination for ten years into a situation on which there are four Human Rights Council independent fact-finding mission reports , an advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice , resolutions of the Security Council and General Assembly , numerous Israeli , Palestinian and international NGO reports , extensive TV coverage and video recordings depicting and testifying to war crimes and crimes against humanity . " He reminds us that the Prosecutor , Fatou Bensouda 's , term of office expires in 2021 and determines that she " is determined not to open an investigation into crimes committed by Israel in Palestine and against the Palestinian people . " <p> Dugard concludes that " inarticulated factors have determined " Bensouda 's decision and it is this that has also lessened the chance of a whistleblower coming forward to expose the reasons behind the avoidance of action by the Prosecutor and her senior staff . And what could these inarticulated factors be ? The article provides detail that makes it pretty obvious that , what remains inarticulated is an affinity with Zionism and Israel , perhaps also prompted by the fear of losing professional status . <p> It would appear therefore that Ron Mark 's reluctance to answer direct questions and his silence regarding Israel 's violations of international law might be explained by his membership , as the Israel Institute has observed , of the NZ-Israel Parliamentary Friendship Group . Mark 's reply that his " approach is one of engagement " is evasive and needs clarification . As the Israeli Institute has noted , he takes care not to make " any public statements " regarding Israel . There is , however , a video of Ron Mark and Benjamin Netanyahu ' engaging ' together in Jerusalem that is revealing , particularly as our Defence Minister had failed to ' engage ' with any Palestinian leaders at the time . <p> The Zionist settler land-grab and population transfersare symptoms of the longest and most unbalanced conflict in modern history . That is why Ron Mark 's comment that " the Government is committed to supporting a two-state solution to the Israel-Palestine conflict " is as meaningless as the other oft-repeated Government claim that it is ' even-handed ' in its dealings with Israel and Palestine . Support for a ' two-state solution'has proved to be little other than shameful complicity.The process has simply afforded Israel more time to continue increasing its illegal settlements , along withthe seizureand control of ever more Palestinian land . <p> If Israel 's covert supporters in New Zealand will not stand up for justice , then they mustadmit their willingness to accept apartheid and the undermining ofinternational justice and human rights . <p> Leslie Bravery is a Londoner with vivid World War Two memories of the Nazi blitz on his home town . In 1947/1948 His father explained to him what was happening to the Palestinians thus : " Any ideology or political movement that creates refugees in the process of realising its ambitions must be inhuman and should be opposed and condemned as unacceptable . " What followed confirmed this assessment of the Zionist entity a hundredfold . Now a retired flamenco guitarist , with a lifelong interest in the tragedy of what happened to the Palestinian people , he tries to publicise their plight . Because the daily injustices they suffer barely get a mention in the mainstream news media , Leslie edits/compiles a daily newsletter , In Occupied Palestine , for the Palestine Human Rights Campaign . These days , to preserve his sanity , he enjoys taking part in a drama group whenever possible ! <h> 3 COMMENTS <p> Ron Mark is a traitor to humanity , an ex soldier and pretend SAS member ... he is an absolute imitation of a Zionist lover of the highest order ... now these words may never see the light of day ... but they are correct . <p> Launched on Friday 1 March , 2013 , the ' TheDailyBlog.co.nz ' unites New Zealand 's leading left/centre-left commentators and progressive opinion shapers to provide the other side of the story on today 's news , media and political agendas. 
@@31513090 <h> Child victims of Zionist population control <p> A former Israeli Prime Minister , Golda Meir , told the world : " We can forgive the Arabs for killing our children . We can not forgive them for forcing us to kill their children . We will only have peace with the Arabs when they love their children more than they hate us . " Golda Meir 's twisted excuse for Zionist war crimes speaks volumes -- as does the photo see above of four , heavily armed and protected Israeli soldiers , terrorising a defenceless young Palestinian boy in the Occupied West Bank . The soldiers ' fearlessness in seizing the boy is reinforced by their ability to outnumber him ; all four can be seen manhandling him . The Israeli Army is aided in its provision of more than ample manpower through the generosity of US taxpayers . In 2016 , the US Government guaranteed US$68 billion in economic and military aid to Israel over a ten-year period . <p> On 9 February this year , the Israeli musician , Jonathan Ofir , wrote : " We torture and terrorise the hell out of Palestinians in order to deter them and make their lives so miserable so they will want to leave -- or to revenge , which will justify our next blow . " Referring to the Zionist pretence of making " the desert bloom " , Ofir comments : " And as this desert ' blooms ' with yet another settlement , another fictitious ' military zone ' , another ' expansion ' -- the people who are there , the " others " , are gradually removed , encircled , or killed . " <p> US generosity towards Israel is countered by its meanness towards Palestinians . Since taking office , President Trump has reduced US aid to Palestinians by about US$500 million . Trump also withdrew all funding for the UN Relief and Works Agency ( UNRWA ) , which needs to care for around five million Palestinian refugees . UNRWA schools and health clinics are now under threat of closure . In January , the US funding cuts forced the the World Food Programme ( WFP ) , providing assistance to Palestinians in both Gaza and the West Bank , to announce severe aid reductions and even suspensions . <p> Showing who 's boss <p> TDB Recommends NewzEngine.com <p> In 2018 , Israeli forces killed 56 Palestinian children ( more than one a week ) mostly by gunfire but also with missiles launched by tanks and drones . Israel 's military Occupation of the West Bank and obsession with population control has an especially severe impact on Palestinian children . They can never feel safe , not even at night in their homes . <p> If anyone doubts that the Israeli Army is not filled with hatred and contempt for Palestinian children , they should watch this video of Israeli soldiers firing stun grenades and tear gas canisters as they attack three schools in a heavily built-up area . The absolute quiet is interrupted by the blast of Israeli Army stun grenades and growing numbers of tear gas canisters . With the children in their classrooms , attempting to study , three stun grenades are lobbed into the grounds of the schools and the noise from mounting tear gas grenade explosions increases . Even as they walk away from the scene , the soldiers stop from time to time , turning and subjecting the area behind them to further tear gas grenade launches . The street , local schools and homes are now filled with tear gas and the street is empty . The soldiers who lobbed the stun grenades over walls into school grounds could not possibly have known who may have been standing where they landed . <p> The video reveals that there was absolutely no action by any Palestinian child or adult that could have justified the Israeli violence . In addition to the residential buildings there are , in the immediate area , another three schools . Imagine trying to study under such conditions , not knowing if further violence was coming your way as tear gas gradually seeps into the classroom . At the end of January the UN issued a warning call for schoolchildren to be " better-protected from the effects of Israeli occupation " . In 2018 , the UN documented 111 different cases of Israeli interference in West Bank education , affecting more than 19,000 children . " Children should never be the target of violence and must not be exposed to any form of violence " , said two senior UN officials , Jamie McGoldrick , UN Humanitarian Co-ordinator for the region and Special Representative , Genevieve Boutin , in a joint statement by UNICEF and UNESCO . Israel 's targeting of young Palestinians is designed to make population control that much easier . Any sign of resistance to military Occupation brings the dire threat of increased violence towards children . At the end of January , for example , the Israeli Army , opening fire with live ammunition , shot four Palestinian schoolchildren . <p> In February the terror continues <p> As the month of February passes , it looks as though Palestinian children are going to have to face growing Israeli Army violence . Here follows the toll for the month up until the nineteenth : <p> Deaths : A 17-year-old youth , Hassan Nabil Ahmad Nofal , died from wounds sustained during an Israeli Army attack on the al-Bureij UN refugee camp ; another teenager , Hamza Mohammad Rushdi Ishtawi ( 18 ) , was killed in an Israeli Army attack on east Gaza City ; and another child , Hassan Eyad Abdel-Fattah Shalbi , was killed in an Israeli Army attack on east Khuza'a . <p> Wounding/injury : A 17-year-old youth , Abdallah Ali Nubani , was wounded when Israeli forces opened fire with rubber-coated steel bullets , stun grenades and tear gas canisters against schoolchildren and other people during a raid on al-Sawiya village . In Jenin , the Israeli Army opened fire on two people riding a motorcycle on their way home from work , killing one and wounding another , Omar Ahmad Hanayna ( 16 ) . Israeli forces , firing tear gas canisters , raided al-Labban al-Sharqiya village and searched a home , causing a five-year-old child to lose consciousness from tear gas poisoning . In Hebron , an Israeli settler vehicle ran over and hospitalised a 15-year-old boy , Ahmad Wajih . <p> During a 3am raid on the al-Jalazoun UN refugee camp , Israeli soldiers abducted two 17-year-old youths : Yusef Ehab Musa Al-Zabadi and Qusay Hamza Hamidat . At 3:50am during home invasions in Kafr Ni'ma village , the Israeli Army searched several homes and abducted a 17-year-old youth : Abdel-Rahim Nafith Abdel-Al . In another home invasion , Israeli troops abducted a 13-year-old boy : Ammer Mohammad Sadeq Iqteni . A night raid in Bethlehem saw the abduction of 17-year-old Shalabi Attia al-Sha'er . The Shuafat UN refugee camp , the third so-called refuge to be raided in those 19 days , saw the abductions of two 13-year-old boys , Yasser Qarash and Yazan Samer Al-Dabas . Finally , in Kharbatha al-Misbah village Israeli soldiers abducted two 14-year-old boys : Ahmad Maysour Mahmoud Muslih and Tal'at Sa'id Samour Harfoush . <p> The youngsters ' names are recorded here because they are not merely statistics . These are children , loved by their families , who have been subjected to brutal and fearful captivity in the name of a racist ideology . The effects of the abuse they suffer are both physical and mental . The world community owes them recognition and protection . <p> Youngsters terrorised : In addition to abductions , during home invasions and other such raids , the Israeli military and police also subject Palestinian youngsters to sudden periods of terror and brief captivity , either in the streets or at school . Over the same period , Israeli soldiers in east al-Bireh seized a 17-year-old youth , Hisham Shadi Hisham Shanana , and held him captive for a time . In Jerusalem , the Israeli Occupation issued a house arrest order against a 14-year-old boy , Yusef Sami Dari , a resident of al-Eisawiya , and extorted 5000 NIS ( US$1287 as a condition for his release from captivity . In Hebron , Israeli soldiers seized , and held captive for a time , a 16-year-old youth , Baha Ayed Ayed Al-Najjar , near the Al-Ibrahimi Mosque . In al-Bireh , Israeli soldiers seized , and terrorised , two schoolchildren making their way to the Al-Hashimiya School and forced them into the nearby Pesagout Israeli Occupation settlement , where they were held captive for some time . <p> Children are also terrorised when the Israeli Army forces them and their families out of their homes -- on 13 February , the Israeli military forced 50 families from their homes , to make way for Israeli Army exercises in the Khirbeit Ras al-Ahmar al-Malah , al-Maytat and al-Bureij areas in the North Jordan Valley . One morning , Israeli forces , firing stun grenades and tear gas canisters in the street near Tariq Bin Zeid School , caused several tear gas casualties among the children . With Israeli Army complicity , Israel settlers also target Palestinian children . <p> On 14 February , a gang of Israeli Occupation settlers invaded Orif village farmland and raided a village school , smashing classroom windows . The Israeli Army came to the assistance of the settlers and opened fire with rubber-coated steel bullets , stun grenades and tear gas canisters at people who came to defend the school . Two people , Usayed Daoud Al-Safadi and Ammar Fawzi Shihada , were wounded and another person was taken prisoner . On 19 February , Israeli forces in Bethlehem set up a checkpoint near a boys ' school in Nahalin , seizing and holding captive , for a time , a number of children . <p> The fusion of ideology and religion <p> The evolution of the Zionist enterprise has entered another phase . On 13 February Jonathan Cook , a British journalist based in Nazareth since 2001 , published an article on the ascendancy of religious fanaticism within the movement and particularly with regard to the Occupation . Cook remarks : " There are many grounds for criticising Israel , including its brutal oppression of Palestinians under occupation and its system of institutionalised segregation and discrimination against the fifth of its population who are not Jewish -- its Palestinian minority . But largely ignored by critics have been Israel 's increasing theocratic tendencies . " And yet , as Cook observes : " There is barely a politician in Washington seeking election who has not at some point declared an ' unbreakable bond ' between the United States and Israel , or claimed the two uphold ' shared values ' . " <p> With half of Israel 's military academies now religious , the views of extremist Orthodox rabbis are increasingly indoctrinating Israeli soldiers . Cook tells us that , " In Israel 's 2008-09 ground invasion of Gaza , soldiers were issued with pamphlets by the army rabbinate using Biblical injunctions to persuade them to ' show no mercy ' to Palestinians . " <p> In the oppressive Israeli settlement world , hatred of Palestinians is entrenched . The King 's Torah ( Torat Hamelech ) , a book by two residents , Rabbis Yitzhak Shapira and Yosef Elitzur , in the Israeli Occupation Yitzhar settlement , expresses the view that " The prohibition ' Thou Shalt Not Murder ' applies only ' to a Jew who kills a Jew ' . " Jonathan Cook reveals that the book tells us non-Jews have no compassion and that , as attacks on them help to " curb their evil inclination " , their babies and children may be killed since " it is clear that they will grow to harm us . " <p> This fanaticism is well established in Israel 's national police force . Cook informs us , " top posts are now in the hands of hardline religious settlers . . . " Another promoter of the book The King 's Torah , is the police force 's chief rabbi , Rahamim Brachyahu . As far back as 2004 , a judicial-led commission of inquiry concluded that the Israeli police were " institutionally racist " . <p> In October last year , Israel 's Education Minister , Naftali Bennett , was reported by the Times of Israel as keen to impose a " shoot-to-kill " policy in Gaza , including against Palestinian children . Bennett made the comment on Israel 's Army Radio after he was asked what he would do differently if he were the defence minister . Bennett replied : " Everything " . Asked if he would instruct the Israeli Army to adopt a shoot-to-kill policy against Palestinian children , he replied : " They are not children -- they are terrorists . We are fooling ourselves . " <p> Our duty <p> Amid an unprecedented humanitarian funding crisis , world leaders fail to bring Israel to account and instead pose as caring for the victims by subsidising reparations for the damage caused by Israel . The Fourth Geneva Convention undeniably places responsibility for the consequences of Zionist population control and blockade of Palestine upon the Occupying power itself . The Palestinian people have the right to resist and are appealing to the International Criminal Court . While the Court is undertaking a preliminary examination of human rights violations in the West Bank and Gaza , Palestinians are willing to face inevitable Israeli accusations at The Hague because it is the only way to fairly deal with the evidence and seek justice . <p> End the silence and help to defend the children by making it clear to Israel that the New Zealand people repudiate Zionism , do not share its values and utterly condemn Israel 's racist war crimes and inhumanities . Our Government must act in recognition of the duty it shares with the international community to uphold the Universal Declaration of Human Rights . Until Israel declares an end to its West Bank military Occupation , Gaza blockade and discrimination against its citizens , New Zealand should cease all co-operation with Israel . <p> Leslie Bravery is a Londoner with vivid World War Two memories of the Nazi blitz on his home town . In 1947/1948 His father explained to him what was happening to the Palestinians thus : " Any ideology or political movement that creates refugees in the process of realising its ambitions must be inhuman and should be opposed and condemned as unacceptable . " What followed confirmed this assessment of the Zionist entity a hundredfold . Now a retired flamenco guitarist , with a lifelong interest in the tragedy of what happened to the Palestinian people , he tries to publicise their plight . Because the daily injustices they suffer barely get a mention in the mainstream news media , Leslie edits/compiles a daily newsletter , In Occupied Palestine , for the Palestine Human Rights Campaign . These days , to preserve his sanity , he enjoys taking part in a drama group whenever possible ! <p> YAAAWN ....... Keep up the anti Jewish rhetoric Leslie , you will never get your ' wish ' of peace whilst Islamic terror groups fire rockets into Israel . I 'm still awaiting to read your piece on ' Egypt 's blockade of Gaza ' , you are aware it 's not just Israel that has the LAWFUL blockade ? <p> Launched on Friday 1 March , 2013 , the ' TheDailyBlog.co.nz ' unites New Zealand 's leading left/centre-left commentators and progressive opinion shapers to provide the other side of the story on today 's news , media and political agendas. 
@@31513650 <h> Only action will stop fraying of Gaza peace prospects <p> Obstacles to any lasting deal between Israel and Palestine continue to mount , the UN 's Special Coordinator for the Middle East Peace Process told Security Council members on Wednesday , and only " concrete action " towards a two-State solution will change that dynamic . <p> Nikolay Mladenov 's briefing covered all too familiar ground , as he grimly recounted continuing violence against civilians on both sides , continuing incitement , continuing deterioration in relations , and continuing backsliding on settlement building , and overall political progress . <p> Since the adoption of Security Council resolution 2334 in 2016 , aimed at curbing settlement expansion , the situation on the ground " has only deteriorated " , said Mr. Mladenov : " Settlements have expanded significantly , demolitions have accelerated , violence and incitement have continued " . <p> Furthermore , " achieving intra-Palestinian unity remains elusive , and credible negotiations have yet to be launched . I remain greatly concerned by the persistent lack of progress towards ending the occupation and realizing a negotiated two-State solution " , he added . <p> Renewed commitment needed <p> " As I have consistently stated , it is not enough to call for the renewal of our collective efforts to this end , we must take concrete action . " <p> Without the renewed commitment of both Israel and Palestinian leaders in the West Bank and Gaza towards getting peace talks back on track , " the situation will continue to worsen " , he warned . <p> " I once again urge leaders on all sides to summon the necessary political will to take concrete steps in support of ending the occupation and realizing a lasting peace , resulting in two democratic States , Israel and Palestine , living side by side in peace with secure and recognized borders , with Jerusalem as the capital of both States . " <p> Gaza deadline <p> A year on from the start of emergency humanitarian funding for the Gaza enclave , combined with economic interventions to prop up the faltering economy , the situation remains fragile , said the Special Coordinator . <p> " Security risks abound , movement and access restrictions remain severe ... Some of the investments made as a result of efforts by the United Nations will end on 31 December , and without additional funding and a durable Israeli and Palestinian commitment , the situation in Gaza could , once again , be pushed to the brink of collapse " , he added . <p> " The stakes are too high to allow this to happen , all stakeholders must act to prevent the ongoing crisis in Gaza from deepening further . " <p> Support the 2020 funding plan <p> Mr. Mladenov also called on Member States to support the 2020 Humanitarian Response Plan ( HRP ) for the occupied Palestinian territories , launched on 11 December . <p> The 2020 HRP appeals for $348 million to provide basic food , protection , health care , shelter , water and sanitation to 1.5 million Palestinians in the Gaza Strip and the West Bank , including East Jerusalem . <h> Scoop Citizen Members and ScoopPro Organisations are the lifeblood of Scoop . <p> 20 years of independent publishing is a milestone , but your support is essential to keep Scoop thriving . We are building on our offering with new In-depth Engaged Journalism platform - thedig.nz . Find out more and join us : <p> " The world is screaming out for climate action but this summit had responded with a whisper . The poorest nations are in a sprint for survival yet many governments have barely moved from the starting blocks . Instead of committing to more ambitious cuts in emissions , countries have argued over technicalities . " More&gt;&gt; <p> In the fortnight since the Internet got switched back on in Iran , the ferocity of the crackdown on the recent demonstrations has become evident . Reportedly , hundreds of people have been killed , thousands wounded and thousands more have been arrested . More&gt;&gt; 
@@31513659 <h> Min . Of Information Kicks Off 1st Academic Media Conference <p> Gaza , ALRAY - Ministry of Information kicked off the events of the first academic media conference in Palestine " Palestinian Media ... Meeting Resistance Challenges " on Tuesday morning at Commodore Hotel in the west of Gaza City . <p> The conference was held with the participation of Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh , local and foreign media personalities . <p> In the opening session of the conference , Mr Ihab al-Ghusain , Head of Government Media Office ( GMO ) , welcomed the professors participating in the conference from the Arab world , particularly former Director of Al Jazeera Media Network Wadah Khanfar , who was not able to come in person to the Gaza Strip due the Rafah crossing closure . <p> Ghusain said the Ministry of Information wove good relations with all journalists and media organizations in the Gaza Strip , and promoted national issues , freedom of the press , and social responsibility . <p> It has established a government media network with launching ALRAY ( opinion ) official news agency in Arabic and English , ALRAY Radio Station , and Visual Broadcast Department for video reports and bulletins as a microcosm of the future Satellite TV Channel , he explained . <p> He pointed out that the ministry has worked to achieve the goals set for 2013 , including the appointment of an English-speaking spokesperson for the government . <p> In a recorded speech delivered to the conference attendees , Mr Wadah Khanfar said the way made by the Palestinian journalists must be invested , " urging to employ the scientific media principles . <p> He pointed to the tasks of media guidelines and lift the audience of solving ignorance , indicating that the obstacles plaguing professional colleagues must Tzliha to reach the goal . <p> He stressed the responsibility the media workers in Palestine should assume , which requires them to be biased to truth , regardless of the political agendas . He added that it 's hardship that builds a professional journalist . <p> " In appreciation of Palestinian media workers , the ministry previously announced a competition to honor the best journalism works and recieved print , electronic and broadcast entries from 100 journalists . A shortlist of five would be given prizes for their submissions during the conference , " <p> The conference would also be permeated with a photo exhibition showcasing works of 13 Gaza photojournalists , and screening a film titled " Candles in the Darkness of Aggression " which features the struggling efforts of Palestinian journalists and the violations the Israeli occupation carries out against them in the West Bank , Gaza Strip , and Jerusalem , according to Marouf . <h> Scoop Citizen Members and ScoopPro Organisations are the lifeblood of Scoop . <p> 20 years of independent publishing is a milestone , but your support is essential to keep Scoop thriving . We are building on our offering with new In-depth Engaged Journalism platform - thedig.nz . Find out more and join us : <p> " The world is screaming out for climate action but this summit had responded with a whisper . The poorest nations are in a sprint for survival yet many governments have barely moved from the starting blocks . Instead of committing to more ambitious cuts in emissions , countries have argued over technicalities . " More&gt;&gt; <p> In the fortnight since the Internet got switched back on in Iran , the ferocity of the crackdown on the recent demonstrations has become evident . Reportedly , hundreds of people have been killed , thousands wounded and thousands more have been arrested . More&gt;&gt; 
@@31518812 <h> Overgrown Kids , and the Death of the Superego <h> Overgrown Kids , Unshackled Ids , and the Death of the Superego <p> " Children are completely egoistic ; they feel their needs intensely and strive ruthlessly to satisfy them . " <p> Sigmund Freud <p> Frightening as it may be , the Earth 's fate rests in the hands of children . With incredibly formidable military firepower at its disposal , the United States could catalyze Armageddon at any time . And while they may be adults chronologically , our sociopolitical structure is dominated by emotional infants . <p> Nietzsche once pronounced God dead . In the United States , we have a more readily demonstrable ( and perhaps related ) problem . Our collective id has rendered its governing superego impotent , and perhaps dead . Our prevailing moral standards , as inconsequential as they have become , are of the Jerry Falwell variety . They are mean-spirited , self-serving , judgmental , narrow-minded , selfish , and belligerent . As far as US Americans are concerned , Christ may as well have preached the Sermon on the Mount from the lowest recesses of Death Valley . <p> Recall that our basic drives such as libido , hunger , and aggression flow from the infantile dimension of our psyche known as the id . In terms of psychodynamics , the superego 's role is to counter-balance the irresponsible , amoral , and essentially sociopathic nature of the id with a healthy degree of conscience and guilt . Yet in the United States , we are inculcated with a deep sense of our exceptionalism and entitlement from the moment we emerge from the birth canal , thus crippling our ability to empathize and seriously impeding the development of our superego . <p> Let 's examine some of the spiritually corrosive social forces which have molded our malleable natures in such a way that our behavior as a nation closely resembles that of a depraved miscreant : <p> While counseling and therapy are essential tools to heal from psychic wounds , emotional disorders , and mental illnesses , many mental health professionals offer their patients palliative " ego strokes " rather than the remedial brutal honesty and tough love they truly need . Instead of giving their clients the tools they need to heal themselves , they enable their ids to continue running rampant , unfettered by that " nasty old superego " and its " toxic guilt . " <p> Even those who do n't seek professional help are absolved of the pangs of conscience by the high priests and priestesses of the corporate media . Prostitutes to the establishment like Oprah pat them on the head , reassure them that their pathological self-absorption is wonderful , and tell them to further immerse their minds in pernicious idiocy by reading instruction manuals on narcissism like The Secret . <p> Commit a crime ? No problem . We have a legal system , not a justice system . If you have money enough to hire a shrewd attorney , you are unlikely to face the consequences you deserve , regardless of the egregiousness of your crime . Unfortunately , if you do n't have money , you will face the equivalent of electrocution for stealing a loaf of bread , which means several brutal , dehumanizing years in the most populous prison industrial complex in the world for " crimes " like self-medicating to escape your already miserable circumstances . <p> Lack the cash to buy the $2,000.00 flat screen you " have to have " to watch the obscenely commercialized and over-hyped Super Bowl ? No problem . In the advanced stages of our savage economic system , finance capital reigns supreme . There are untold thousands of lenders prepared to let you use their money , provided you agree to pay their usurious interest rates . <p> Want it yesterday ? Not to worry . We have fast food , one hour photo , instant credit approval , movies on demand , pills to chase the blues and blue pills to give you an erection , instant coffee , microwave meals , zero down loans , and a host of other means to satisfy the relentlessly impatient demands of our ids . <p> Need a career , training , money for college , the indoctrinated belief that you are risking your life for a noble cause , and the false security that your government will support you once they are done with you ? " Join the people who have joined the Army " ( or Marines , Navy , or Air Force ) . Our moneyed elite ( desperately ) need willing pawns to wage their wholesale terror operations in Iraq and elsewhere . <p> While it may sound a bit conspiratorial , before we go dismissing the notion that the erosion of our moral restraint ( superego ) has been intentionally engineered and orchestrated , let 's consider the question , " Cui bono ? " <p> Having stunted , retarded , corralled , or in some cases , disabled the superegos of the " unwashed masses , " there is almost no end to the malevolence our sociopathic plutocracy , upper level military careerists , " religious " leaders , AIPAC , and reactionaries can commit in our names ( with our overt or tacit approval ) to further enrich and empower themselves . <p> Consider but a few examples of abominations for which we , as a nation , are responsible : <p> We have committed war crimes analogous to those of Nazi Germany through our pre-emptive invasions of Afghanistan and Iraq . How many hundred thousand or million civilians must die before we realize that " collateral damage " is an Orwellian euphemism for mass murder ? <p> We have long been complicit in the brutal oppression of the Palestinians . When the final Palestinian is imprisoned , obliterated , or driven out of Gaza and the West Bank will we then recognize that we facilitated an ethnic cleansing ? <p> We employ economic tyranny and manipulation to make de facto colonies of developing nations , harvesting and consuming 25% of the world 's resources to " sustain " 5% of the world 's population . Is n't gluttony one of the Seven Deadly Sins ? <p> We listened to the likes of Ronald Reagan ( a reactionary who never met a socially redeeming policy , law or public initiative he did n't want to eliminate ) when he moronically asserted that enacting universal health care would undoubtedly lead to " Godless Communism . " So we continue embracing a system enabling cynical wealthy elites and amoral corporations to generate outrageous profits derived from the administration of health care . As a result , there are 50 million uninsured US Americans , we have the highest infant mortality rate in the industrialized world , we are 37th in the world in health care quality , HMO 's and managed care entities often refuse to provide necessary medical procedures , insurance companies routinely deny claims based on technicalities , and hospitals dump indigent patients on Skid Row rather than treating them . <p> On the subject of indigents , how is it that a nation awash in prosperity has over a million homeless human beings on any given night ? Or that cities like Orlando and Las Vegas have made homelessness a crime ? How can a significant percentage of those condemned to sleep under bridges and eat from dumpsters be veterans who fought for our country ? Could it be that chicken hawk ruling elites like Dick Cheney used them as cannon fodder in their wars necessitated by capitalism 's endless demand for new markets , cheaper labor , and more resources , and then disposed of them like so much rubbish when they came home ? <p> We strong-arm developing countries into implementing neoliberal economic policies and free trade , deepening the impoverishment of their citizens to further enrich ourselves . This leaves them little choice but to migrate here , where virtually all of the money and resources are flowing . Now that 12 million " illegals " have established residence in the US , we are arrogantly preparing to perpetuate their employers ' capacity to exploit them or to implement a draconian plan to rip their families and lives apart , imprison them , and eventually send them back to the abject poverty we created . <p> Climate Change ? We simply deny we bear an ounce of responsibility and rev up our gas-guzzling SUVs , pick-ups , and Hummers . <p> Yes , in spite of the extreme moral poverty reflected in the myriad wounds we continue to inflict upon the Earth and its sentient inhabitants , we have the audacity to call ourselves a Christian nation . Whether it is conscious or not , we organize our existences around the abhorrent beliefs that " it 's all about me , " " get them before they get me , " " he who dies with the most toys wins , " and " blessed are the rich , the joyous , the well-fed , the aggressive , the merciless , the heartless , and the warmongers , " thus manifesting the virtual antithesis of Christ 's teachings . <h> Scoop Citizen Members and ScoopPro Organisations are the lifeblood of Scoop . <p> 20 years of independent publishing is a milestone , but your support is essential to keep Scoop thriving . We are building on our offering with new In-depth Engaged Journalism platform - thedig.nz . Find out more and join us : <h> ALSO : <p> Even before the local body election results came in from Hong Kong , China had been having a p.r . nightmare this week . First , the ICIJ released a trove of leaked cables about the mass concentration camp system that China has built to control and to " re-educate " over a million people from its Uighur minority ... More&gt;&gt; 
@@31525655 <h> A Gangster 's Charter : Bill English 's " Social Investment " Budget <p> NEXT THURSDAY , 21 May , is Budget Day . No , do n't yawn , because if the veteran political journalist , Richard Harmon , is right , then " next week will be a defining moment in the third term of this government and a critical point in its campaign to retain power in 2017 . " <p> That " defining moment " will mark the commencement of the next great campaign in Neoliberalism 's thirty years war against collectivism and the public sphere . <p> Some will call it privatisation but that 's not really what this next phase is all about . If John Key and Bill English really wanted to privatise the provision of social welfare they would simply shut down the Ministry of Social Development , close all the Work and Income offices , and sell off every one of its State Houses to the highest bidder . The public schools and hospitals would suffer a similar fate . <p> No doubt most of the Decile 10 schools would be snapped-up at a good price . The big public hospitals in the main centres would , similarly , attract plenty of interest . But all those Decile 1 schools ? Who would want to pour good money into them ? And provincial hospitals ? Not much scope for profit there . <p> TDB Recommends NewzEngine.com <p> No , what Bill English is planning is something very different from a straightforward reversion to the " night-watchmen state " so beloved of the followers of Friedrich von Hayek and Ludwig von Mises . <p> It is doubtful that such a radical step would , in any case , save the government very much in the way of expenditure . Casting adrift the poor on such a massive scale would necessitate huge increases in Vote Defence , Vote Police , Vote Courts and Vote Corrections . The money saved by shutting down the welfare state would be offset by the amount spent defending whatever replaced it from the vengeance of tens-of-thousands of desperate citizens with nothing left to lose . <p> The " Better Public Services Programme " that Bill English launches on Thursday ( almost certainly under a new and catchier name ) wo n't be about relinquishing all state responsibility for the poor , the sick and the young , it will be about funding private entities to provide services which , hitherto , had been provided by public servants . <p> In English 's own words to the Institute of Public Administration on 19 February 2015 : " Testing for spending effectiveness will be core to this process . If we ca n't measure effectiveness , it wo n't be funded through social investment . We 'll be systematically reprioritising funding to providers that get results . " <p> To anyone who 's been following the commissioning of the new privately-run prison at Wiri , south of Auckland , all this talk of " social investment " and " providers " will sound very familiar . The taxpayers have spent millions on the construction of the Wiri facility , and the Government has just announced the laying-off of close to 200 prison officers from around the country in order to supply it with a core of highly-trained staff , but the actual running of the prison has been contracted-out to the multinational firm , Serco . For the next quarter-of-a-century a private entity will be permitted to extract a substantial profit for the provision of a " service " that the state ( minus the profit ) has , quite rightly , accepted responsibility for the past 200 years . <p> How has it come to this ? Why is the National Government preparing to pay ( with our money ! ) the private sector for taking over the provision of services the public sector is perfectly capable of providing ? In essence , the answer is : because in mature capitalist economies like New Zealand 's there 's bugger-all new profit-making opportunities available to the private sector . Hence the growing interest in " social investment " , a new kind of venture which promises to pay the private shareholder a handsome dividend without the necessity of making massive capital outlays on plant and machinery -- all of which is supplied by the hapless taxpayer . <p> This is n't capitalism in any accepted sense of the word . It is , however , instantly recognisable to any enterprising gangster as an officially sanctioned opportunity for skimming-off-the-top . <p> A public body contracts a private institution to supply a much needed social service . The latter offers a price -- which includes a hefty chunk of cash for its trouble -- and then proceeds to utilise every possible means of cutting corners and short-changing its " customers " so that it can ( in the unlikely event of being asked ) present the public with a passable facsimile of the service it undertook to provide . <p> Just think about everything that lay behind Tony Soprano 's cynical description of himself as a " waste management consultant " , and you 'll have a pretty good grip on what Bill English and his government 's " defining moment " is all about . <p> When you do n't want to go after the rich because they are your mates and cash providers , and you are too scared to go after the middle because they might get angry and create an electoral backlash then there is only one target left -- the poor , the sick and the disabled . National can call it by any b ..... t name they like , but it does n't change anything -- if you want to make profit out of and carry out social experiments on the lowest rung of society , then you are an a ... hole , enough said . <p> @ Tuan Nguyen ! Absolutely ! Lest we fucking forget ! The Labour party of yesteryear has some serious cap-in-hand mother fuckin ' shit to do ! ( I just watched a film called The Baytown Outlaws and I 'm all fired up ! ) <p> National are a bunch of gangsters all right . They are right into protection rackets -- that is protect your rich mates from the horrible tax collectors . The gang consists of Bill " Capone " English , John " Bugs " Key , Steven " Scarface " Joyce , Paula " Bonnie " Bennett , Judith " Mata Hairi " Collins , Nathan " Legs " Guy , Simon " Baby Face " Bridges , and many others . Gangs do n't last for ever , and neither will this lot . <p> " That " defining moment " will mark the commencement of the next great campaign in Neoliberalism 's thirty years war against collectivism and the public sphere . <p> Some will call it privatisation but that 's not really what this next phase is all about . If John Key and Bill English really wanted to privatise the provision of social welfare they would simply shut down the Ministry of Social Development , close all the Work and Income offices , and sell off every one of its State Houses to the highest bidder . The public schools and hospitals would suffer a similar fate . " <p> It is best described as PRIVATISATION BY STEALTH ! It means more outsourcing , more contracting of many smaller and some larger " service providers " , as they have started to do in social security over recent years . So far these have just been trials , more or less , that is the " official " label put onto it , but " trials " tend to get tweaked a bit and then often become the norm . <p> Whanau Ora fits into this , same as the privatisation of corrections and prison services , the contracting out of health and disability services , the use of service delivery companies all over the show . <p> Try to also search for ' nzsocialjusticeblog2013 ' online , and read more there ! <p> Look that up , please , it shows how they are dodging answering serious , detailed questions , and force people to file OIA complaints against MSD with the Ombudsman , which takes possibly a year or two to get resolved ! <p> It is a " murky " business , but some providers make money out of it , if not for enriching themselves or " shareholders " , at least they do well out of it by creating jobs for themselves , as managers , as administrators and service staff earning salaries and fees . This they can do even as " charities " , certainly as trusts , and we know how Sanitarium get around the tax department , being registered as a " charity " . <p> They will do more of all this in housing , in other government areas , where it used to be government itself to deliver services . The future will resemble a patchwork landscape of endless private service providers , to some degree competing for a share of the pie of contracts to gain and earn from , and they will ALL be exempt from OIA obligations , so we as the public will have little in the way of scrutinising what they do and deliver , and what the actual outcomes are . At the same time government rids itself of responsibilities and " saves " money and can cut jobs in the public sector , thus also weakening the PSA and other public service unions . <p> But such groups as the ' NZ Taxpayer 's Union ' will embrace it , celebrate it , this will mean Jordan Williams will have endless " expert " interviews and " commentaries " lined up with all the MSM media players , parroting off , how great all this is , and how we " all " will " gain " from the governments supposedly " smart " moves . <p> Voters that bother voting ( middle class home owners and professionals ) will say , hey , great , less taxes to pay , less ACC levies to pay , good for me , more in my pocket , stuff the " riff raff " of " whingers " , I love it , Key and English will get my vote . <p> See where I come from ? Labour better wake up , and stop trying to compete with Nats for those single minded , selfish vested interest voters , and look at reaching out and motivating the million non voters and resigned , disillusioned former voters , to gain their support , as all else will bring NO real change ! <p> Bandits , gangsters , manipulators , and English is the mastermind behind this agenda ! <p> I doubt if this is English 's masterplan -- he 's just the front man , the implementer . This looks like a plan that has come out of a think tank , institute , round table or similar -- and quite possibly from offshore , NZ is a great little social and economic sandpit to run all manner of experiments in .. <p> Yes , Bill English may not be the original " mastermind " behind all this gradual outsourcing , dividing up of the provider and consumer landscape and this whole new neoliberal " approach " we get served up with effective " corporate business " PR spin . <p> But he is the mastermind behind this government 's agenda and strategy for implementing this here in New Zealand , together with like minded operators in private business , certain think tanks and vested interest lobby groups . <p> As for the " evidence " they so often refer to , much if not most comes from so-called " experts " in the UK , such as one Mansel Aylward , a professor of a peculiar kind , who once was working as " Chief Medical Officer " for the DWP in the UK , and who has for years been heading a controversial " research department " called the ' Centre for Psychosocial and Disability Research ' in the UK ( formerly " sponsored " for years by private health and disability insurance corporation UNUM , whose US branch was convicted in various US courts for fraudulent practices in treating insured , also using questionable medical assessors ) ! <p> The government can pick the research that suits them , " findings " from reports based on nothing but " desk research " of other statistical reports , where figures are taken out of context . They use them and effective propaganda , to claim all they do is " evidence based " . <p> In the UK the Department for Work and Pensions ( DWP ) , the equivalent they have to our WINZ , they now have a new " assessment provider " called MAXIMUS . That US based corporation has various subsidiaries in a number of countries , also in Australia . <p> Now new information shows how they have been cutting corners , cheated and misrepresented data , while serving for the Australian welfare departments , to try and place people into jobs : <p> We will in future have similar developments here , I dare say , we already have such things happen here , the useless MSM simply has not bothered investigating and researching , and abuse and misuse has been kept under a tight lid , assisted by the OIA not applying for such service providers contracted by the state ! <p> The UK is a good place to look . The recent shortage of beds in the NHS , which right wingers say is because the NHS is inefficient and should be privatised , is a direct result of the privatisation of care homes and ' care in the community ' . Private providers cherry pick the easy , cheaper patients to look and leave complex cases on hospital beds , at greater expense to the NHS . <p> The private sector are not very good at doing the joined up thinking required to provide genuine ' wrap around care ' . I 've worked in public and private sectors so I have experience of both . The private sector do n't have the skills and understanding required to deliver effective services to people who ca n't pay for them . <p> " Social Investment " Budget . This is pure " doublespeak " Language that deliberately disguises , distorts , reverses , or redefines meaning to further an agenda . The term was first coined by George Orwell in his dystopian novel , " 1984 " . This Govenrment has been doing the opposite of this throughout its office . <p> skimming-off-the-top All sorts of privatisations facilitate this like buy the railways extort max income for the shareholders and overpaid execs do no maintenance flog off back to stupid public . Prisons : Charge tops but do just the bare minimum . Claim extra costs and hold stupid public over the barrel . <p> The " Better Public Services Programme " Double speak again means underfund and ration the public provision to give away tax cuts then when there are problems outsource to private business that can do a better job . This is proven rubbish from overseas experience which has shown that efficiency and profit and share holders rule not service . <p> " In English 's own words to the Institute of Public Administration on 19 February 2015 : " Testing for spending effectiveness will be core to this process . If we ca n't measure effectiveness , it wo n't be funded through social investment . We 'll be systematically reprioritising funding to providers that get results . " ' Means everything now in a budget straitjacket service can bug off . Except you 're rich and you pay for that which was once free . This is level 101 accounting management garbage bullshit ! <p> The Great Bean Counter strikes again : Thinks he knows the cost of everything but has n't a clue as to value of anything . <p> Billion-pound government deals with G4S and Serco probed to see if over-charging scandal goes beyond criminal tagging <p> Whitehall review ordered into every deal with two security firms G4S and Serco accused of wrongly billing for non-existent tags Estimates suggest one in six of 18,000 tags billed for were not real Ministers have asked fraud investigators to look into G4S Business Secretary Vince Cable admits ' something bad ' has happened <p> " yet the powers to be gave g4s the all clear and further contracts after the olympic fiasco unbelievable . g4s and a4e have both been exposed for ripping the tax payer off yet cameron and co cant or wont do or say anything why ? <p> I have worked for a couple of ' very large global ' security companies and the practice of overcharging was well known . They would only credit back these overcharges if &amp; when the customer identified them . It has been an industry standard for years . <p> This is what private companies do . Next it will be Royal Mail making massive profits , it 's not magic it will be run for profit not service to you . Do something now and keep it public . <p> Privatisation of Public Serves appears the ideal opportunity for big business to rip us off and the Tories still want Privatisation as much as they can . Could it be they just want to make their mates Rich at our expense ? <p> Both these companies should be barred from bidding for further government contracts . I 'm betting the origins of this came from an accident , where overcharging was done by mistake and when it was realised that civil servants did n't chase up on it and questioned it in anyway , became an industry in itself , in full knowledge of everyone in the companies . Funny how this has barely been reported when compared to civil servants credit cards . Follow the money to understand why . <p> Another example of the pit falls of the Government and their Privatization plans . No real control or oversight of the Contracts , it will make no difference they will still be awarded 10 or 20 year contracts . The Board of Directors and Share Holders will have to take a smaller return this year . These contracts have only ever been about providing he minimum service whilst charging the maximum price . They have no interest in the Service they provide , just an excuse to rip off the Tax Payer . Maybe now some of these people who knock the public Sector will realise why we fight so hard to keep the services public , we do n't charge extortionate prices and walk off with half of it in our back pocket . They should now look into some of the lucrative long term contracts they have been granted to run the Prisons , bet you will find a lot of anomalies in there as well <p> The truly macabre thing is that for all I exalt about the importance to our economy , and future generally , farming is , it takes a dumb , greedy , traitorous cocky with far too many pats on the head and far too few kicks up the arse to fuck us up . Oh , the irony . <p> And here 's where it gets even funkier for the paranoid . I wound't be at all surprised if in fact the actual Mafia was n't involved at some level . <p> There is one glimmer of hope however . It 's a feint wee glimmer I admit . <p> Neo Liberalism was an alien entity 30 years ago . No one had heard of it and for those who had , they barely understood just how insidious , stealthy and mind-bendingly abstract and convoluted a form it could take . The philosophy trades on logical fallacies and lies wrapped in truths . It 's a very cunning and extremely clever way of fooling all of the people most of the time . <p> But now . It 's out in the open and thanks to this fabulous Blog and the internet generally , the ghastly beast has nowhere to hide . <p> Just remember : " It is always darkest just before the day dawneth. " -- Thomas Fuller . <p> little billy english and yankee doodle psycho jonky-stien can only get away with what we let them get away with . <p> I love your posts , CB , even if they get posted twice ! and I know that deep down you are not an especially violent person , and you are actually quite caring . So I overlook the calls to mass spontaneous mob action , even if I understand why you might advocate it . But I think that the " stein " you append at the end of pinokey-o 's name undermines your arguments and leaves you open to accusations of anti-semitism . There are lots of things I would like to say in response to comments or posts but I try to moderate it . I do n't always get it right . <p> @ Kingi . I do n't know what went on there re my being posted twice ? The weirdy world of the interweb I guess . It clearly has you rattled , my apologies for that . <p> Re the ' Stien ' thing ? This is war . Get over it . The Zionists are a waring , horrible pack of fuckers and they 're here , in your back yard and mine man . Jonky is a nasty , deviant little Zionist prick in my view and he 'd sell his grandmothers ashes to a concreting company if he thought it 'd further his ' career ' . Anti semitic ? I could not give one small flying feathered fuck-ette what you think re semitic 's . I 'll speak my mind thank you very much . ( If you 're genuine , I appreciate the heads-up ) <p> When I think anti semite I always think the hypocrisy that exists today re the Irish . It 's hilarious , to make a joke about the stupid Irish but poke fun at a Jew and out comes the holocaust . When times are less volatile , I 'll be more polite . <p> Keep the truth out there , until it hits and hits hard . Might get some collective action then to challenge and finally take down this bunch of treasonous , mobsters and shysters , destroying the fabric of all that was once decent and fair in NZ . <p> Key is a traitor of the worst possible kind . He does his heritage proud ! Working for the US , supporting the rogue state of Israel . <p> Both nations are the infestation of the world , which has brought about international havoc and mayhem , the real forces responsible for giving life to 9/11 and ISIL . <p> That 's where the blame lies for the evil corruption pervading the world at present -- right at the feet of USA and Israel , along with their supporting puppet in the form of FJK doing the dirty work on their behalf ! <p> Keep up the good posts CB . I 'm sure your sentiments have plenty of support . <p> The U$ Empire based on the dollar and astronomical military spending has the following units of its geographical reach . 1 . Nato , comprising the vassal states of Germany , France and the U$k. 2 . Israel whose recent genocide of Gaza was supported 100% by the U$ which supplied more bombs when they ran out . 3 . Canada 4 . Japan and the Philippines and Taiwan 5 . Australia and New Zealand . <p> Financial control comes through the IMF and World Bank <p> It is recognised that Jewish persons supporting Israel figure very prominently in the Wall Street U$ gangster class and many have revolving doored into the U$ administration . <p> The current U$ plan of World hegemony was authored by Paul Wolfowitz who is a jewish zionist neocon . <p> Could go on and on but wo n't . <p> Point ? I strongly suspect that Key being Jewish and a money merchant and neoliberal had doors opened for him by the U$ enabling him to make his 50mill . I also suspect he had been chosen to be a future PM of vassal state NZ by his zionist financial and government supporters in the U$ . <p> The actual evil here is the U$ empire and militaristic Israel and its U$K supporters . Simple Jewish people themselves are horrified at the zionist atrocities , we must differentiate between them . E.G. Chomsky is jewish but a big critic of zionism . <p> A scumbag is a scumbag no matter what race , creed , sect , colour or whatever else . <p> And if you re some sort of globalistic anti democracy , anti national sovereignty Zionist -- then you 're a class A scumbag and need to be named and shamed . <p> And if you are ..... you should count yourself lucky that 's all you 'll get -- if I had my way with all these globetrotting warmongering Zionist traitors -- Id slam them all before a Nuremberg style court and have them all convicted for treason . <p> Do n't forget Nuremberg happened AFTER the war had been fought and won . So who 's going to start it here , you 'd better be damn well organised from day one and have a good plan to make sure your cause is n't hijacked by other agendas . I ca n't see revolution happening in NZ unless things get really bad , even then China would likely " step in to protect their citizens " and things would be 100 times worse . <p> I am genuine , CB , and judging by many of the comments it seems like it is an issue that needed flagging .... and there are many different takes on it . We do n't have to all agree on everything . Me , I want the Key gang gone , I want them to prise Jason Ede out from whatever rock he is hiding under , I want to know why Sabin resigned , and I want to know how much actual wealth is tied up by respective MPs in Aucklands property market . I work with decent people who have been sideswiped by the fruits of neoliberalism , and I watch them struggle to rejoin a workforce that will offer them minimal wages and probably not enough hours , like about 30 , because it is better than being on the dole , but financially , not a whole lot better . I want us to return to a democratic socialism where there is more equality , and justice , and freedom and society is more caring , more employment , and less elitism , cronyism , skimming off the topism , greed , unemployment , selfishness and bully-boy behaviour , both amongst our elected representatives and amongst society . Thank you Chris Trotter for another chilling piece of truth . <p> The truly macabre thing is that for all that I exalt about the importance to our economy , and future generally , farming is it takes a dumb , greedy , traitorous cocky with far too many pats on the head and far too few kicks up the arse to fuck us up . Oh , the irony . <p> And here 's where it gets even funkier for the paranoid . I wound't be at all surprised if in fact the actual Mafia was n't involved at some level . <p> There is one glimmer of hope however . It 's a feint wee glimmer I admit . <p> Neo Liberalism was an alien entity 30 years ago . No one had heard of it and for those who had , they barely understood just how insidious , stealthy and mind-bendingly abstract and convoluted a form it could take . The philosophy trades on logical fallacies and lies wrapped in truths . It 's a very cunning and extremely clever way of fooling all of the people most of the time . <p> But now . It 's out in the open and thanks to this fabulous Blog and the internet generally , the ghastly beast has nowhere to hide . <p> Just remember : " It is always darkest just before the day dawneth. " -- Thomas Fuller . <p> little billy english and yankee doodle psycho jonky-stien can only get away with what we let them get away with . <p> ' Social investment ' was a term first thrown around in the 1970 's by academics when the new right was ganging up to cut social spending . Social spending was social investment ( capital ) eg schools hospitals etc , or social expenditure ( cost of running costs hospitals schools , state housing , welfare etc ) . The new right argued that cuts to social spending were necessary to reduce the tax burden on profits that were falling as the capitalist economy stagnated . To achieve this market forces ( cost/benefit analysis ) were introduced to justify cuts . These cuts were resisted by the unions who were undermined right up to the 90s when the ECA was used to destroy the power of the unions . " More market " empowered consumers of social spending to become administrators ( Tomorrows schools ) pushing for schools , then hospitals , and now social welfare itself to become mini SOE 's , state owned enterprises that had to balance their shrinking budgets and compete with the private sector . But there never was a free market in the history of capitalism and market forces just allowed sections of consumers the opportunity to become small business owners living off state subsidies . The real payoff was the cuts to taxes on profits , diverting the blame for a stagnating economy onto the state workers , weakening the unions that defended state workers , and the empowering of an aspirational , entitled , middle class that now constitutes the dead centre of NZ politics around which both the main parties revolve . <p> So is it perhaps time for Labour to come clean on welfare policy , and take a damned clear stand against what this Nat led government has been presenting us for too many years ? <p> We have been waiting two elections , and heard almost zilch from Labour about welfare policy , that is such affecting those that are not falling under the " child poverty " catch call headline ( being sick , injured and disabled , sole parents and ordinary jobseekers ) . <p> Good wrap on NatZ next assault on our last remaining assets -- defined as " Essential services " . <p> You said Quote ; " In essence , the answer is : because in mature capitalist economies like New Zealand 's there 's bugger-all new profit-making opportunities available to the private sector . Hence the growing interest in " social investment " , a new kind of venture which promises to pay the private shareholder a handsome dividend without the necessity of making massive capital outlays on plant and machinery -- all of which is supplied by the hapless taxpayer . This is n't capitalism in any accepted sense of the word . It is , however , instantly recognisable to any enterprising gangster as an officially sanctioned opportunity for skimming-off-the-top . " <p> I would say emptying they have been emptying the public asset barrel and " skimming off the bottom now " . <p> Some may call it skimming off the top ! <p> Fact is that the nasty NatZ are now near the end of our asset barrel to flog anything else off now ! <p> So when the barrel 's finally bare , and we are all destitute , where do these corrupt crappy phoney political masters all flee to next ? <p> Obviously the power and high they experience when they see us all gutted by their will to destroy as they crave the next public asset place to rape &amp; pillage ? <p> Will they actually flee the country to avoid persecution on the gallows when the public finally wakes up from their slumber and see they have sold the country out from under their feet ? <p> Yes .... ever since the easy to get at gold was mined from the rivers ... the cashed up ones started forming the big mining company 's . The age of the small gold miner had ended . <p> So opportunism went the same way . <p> I use this an analogy . Because historically , .... that is what happened in simple terms . And the same is true today . <p> Except that cunning and devious minds have connived to extract even more ' gold ' from a society once wealthy . Using the tool of neo liberal economic theory ... all manner of deconstruction ... under the guise of strange new catch words such as ' testing for spending efficiency ' ... <p> A typically coded set of words to sound important , fiscally responsible .... yet is total gobbledygook and even more so -- totally deceptive . <p> This is par for the course for neo liberals . They have a long track record of lies such as this . In that they can not deny the historical facts . <p> We were sold the lie from people such as Jenny Shipley , Ruth Richardson , Roger Douglas ...... and all the rest of this screaming brigade that such things as ' prices for electricity will come down due to more competition ' . <p> Yet we all knew .... this country was NEVER big enough to have adequate ' competition ' . <p> And they knew that . <p> And they also knew that and that exactly the opposite of their statements was actually the truth . It was a ruse ... simply to transfer the public wealth to themselves and offshore corporate 's . Same with Telecom . Exactly the same . <p> They are liars . They have no interests or loyalties to this country . They are globalists . Which means a nations borders and sovereignty become nothing but a token gesture .... the all pervading motive is to deconstruct ANY barrier to their corporate agenda . <p> Therefore they are traitors . And guilty of treason . <p> Its that simple . <p> It is more than often a fact that a private company will place the facade of ' efficiency ' before the public ( as do political exponents of neo liberal theory ) ... yet we all have witnessed in this country the exact opposite ... as that company commissions its bean counters as one of the first acts in taking control on how to cut costs . <p> And then after buying up a SOE for a song , inheriting the infrastructure for next to nothing , making redundant workers , stripping that asset back to its skeletal core , having remaining workers on deunionised flat rates ... then ramping up charges for its services to the public ... becuase there is NO competition ... <p> We end up with a substandard , unmonitored , deregulated monster protected by legislation , layers of high powered legal litigants , .... sucking the very blood out of the tax payer . <p> And might I continually remind the NZ public .... this budget ... is coming from the man known as the ' Double Dipper from Dipton ' ... who once stated a few years back ..... <p> " We should be glad we have a LOW WAGE ECONOMY because this encourages foreign investment " . <p> It would behoove anyone getting lulled into a false sense of security regarding this Bill English to remember that statement . <p> NEVER FORGET IT . <p> THIS is where this mans loyalties lie . <p> Never mind the public stunt of boxing for charity in order to woo people into thinking he 's a nice guy ... and how ' so brave of him ' .... <p> POPPYCOCK ! ! ! ... martial artists up and down this country do the same every night of the week . <p> And do n't forget the rubbish of Rodney Hide either ... with his dancing ... the same motives were at the core ... <p> Both dancing and ' boxing ' are not at fault .. and perhaps they genuinely enjoyed the experience . But we are not so easily fooled . The counterpart to those ostentatious acts is John Key and his ' beer at the barbie one of us ' facade that his spin doctors have cultivated . <p> They are not loyal to you , New Zealand .... and whatever you do ... never forget this fact and always view these deceivers for who they really are with their hidden globalist corporate agendas .... <p> And you will observe that 9 times out of 10 ..... the truth does n't lie on what they 've just stated .... but in fact is exactly the opposite . <p> Do this .... and you will start to see the truth .... do this .... and you will be armed with a necessary and healthily democratic cynicism towards those who would seek to undermine your liberty 's , prosperity , your family 's well -- being , ... indeed ... your very nations future . <p> You are so very right . For my sins I have experience in this kind of private provided public service and it is a farce . <p> The cash cow namely the taxpayer will pay over the odds year in and out for whatever the service is . <p> The taxpayer will never get what they want or pay for . <p> It will be quickly evident to anyone in that organisation that it would have been far cheaper to leave it to the public service . It will never be evident to the public because this will be well concealed . <p> The provider will lease everything right down to ball point pens . <p> They will have virtually nothing invested . <p> The provider , in an illusion of professionalism , responsibility and the " right attitude " will have wall to wall ( literally on every wall ) corporate mission statements and goals on such subjects as paramount safety , partnerships , leadership , expertise and community responsibility amongst others all to give but they will all be hollow words and nothing more than a giant mound of bullshit for public display . <p> The lack of expertise and the need to maximise the return to its shareholders will see breath taking corner cutting and if I am not mistaken barely concealed law breaking omissions or acts along with negligence . <p> There will be a plethora of problems hidden on a daily basis based on their lack of expertise and personal investment . <p> And it will have unbelievable layers of management , all siloed and all designed to look like they care . However the CEO or similar will be the only one who says what goes . Staff will be ignored . <p> We will be the losers , make no mistake and I wonder how many National MP 's or other shadowy National figures within the party are going to do very well from this privatisation . Its the only reason anyone apart from a fool would do this . <p> One the telly the other day there was this housing cluster of State homes , looking bran new on this section of land just outside the city of Auckland.They had been purchased by this new form social housing group , the ex State homes where purchased by this group for $8 thousand per home , the spokes person for the social housing group said , they where bashed and in a sad state of repair , that they had spent considerable time renovating to be worthy of habital.The spokes person Maori , went on to say , these homes we are offering are affordable ownership at $195 per week to own over 17 years with on site fruit vegetables at at affordable prices.The caveat , no Alcohol smoking or drugs . <p> So its would seem that its ok for our government to sell off State homes to a collective cultural settlement , when State homes construction had never that intent . <p> Thanks Chris , Your contribution really brings out feelings and emotions . The comments above are honest and powerful . Thanks to the commenters as well . <p> On the backs of the poor and disabled and the seniors and the vets our mob of gangsters , so wonderfully named by Marcus , do not completely grasp a few simple facts . Private institutions running the show and PROFIT ( AGAIN ) BEFORE PEOPLE is their mantra . Meanwhile suffering ; suicides ; violence and poverty dominates many communities . <p> We can not accept that we are the ones who are or will be loosing . Together we can unite and are strong . They are powerful , yes , but they are out numbered and we need to speak out and act out and be positive . Falling into their web of lies and propaganda and mind control can be changed by choices and willingness . <p> And the same is being done with charter schools ; the State pays to have buildings and facilities erected ; then private companies take over the running -- effectively a state sponsored , taxpayer-funded subsidy which no other business in NZ gets . <p> All under the guise of " buying a service " which the State can perform perfectly well . <p> The solution is simple- STOP paying income taxes , to a Government that is clearly corrupt , spying on you , covering for sex offenders to win elections ( no I have n't named one , but take your pick ) , and engaging in war crimes and genocide overseas with your money ( terrorism ) . They want privatisation ? Well , they have gst and petrol taxes- and corporate taxes- billions to work with . period . Thats user pays . No more income taxes , let people work and keep their money- and let small business thrive and employ . If you are on the dole- best go back home and live with Mum , and get a part time job- there will be thousands more coming available- as soon as we wipe income taxes altogether . <p> See distasteful Fairfax has now gone on to attack pensioners in promotion of their beloved Labour and Gutless Little Andy . They reckon pensioners are living in luxury , while the overbreeding for monetary recompense , they represent , are being disadvantaged at their expense . Well leeches of the left , the majority of pensioners have had the guts taxed out of them over the years , and most are deserving of a few crumbs , also most having to face interest rates on property purchases up to 30% . Come on lazy unemployable bludgers , stop breeding and start feeding what tyou have produced , do n't expect current taxpayers , and past overtaxed members of society , to subsidise your bedroom behaviour and your self-entitlement mentalities . Why does this media outlet always find the need to get comment from either useless taxpayer-funded academics , or fiscally challenged losers , like the current rainbow spokesman for finance , Robertson ? I , personally do not begrudge my taxes going to support retired pensioners , but I take exception to funding bludging layabouts , and so-called refugees , who are overloading our infrastructure , education , health , and housing , being unprepared to do anything to support themselves . <p> Introducing compulsory birth control may be the only answer to these overbreeding leeches , after all , they only do it for the money , not the love of the child . Good Lord , they want us to feed them , so they can go pubbing , clubbing , and drugging ; just the reason why decent people do n't support their mentors , Labour . <p> As for overtaxed , well , Mortense , if you did a bit of research instead of indulging in your parroted ignorance , you 'd know NZ was one of the least taxed countries in the world . And judging by the growth of child poverty in NZ , it shows . <p> ... What no mainstream media pundit has yet picked up on in the lead up to the 2015 budget is what Chris Trotter has identified -- that this budget , beneath the spin , will be National 's blitzkrieg to privatise social welfare ... ... <p> Launched on Friday 1 March , 2013 , the ' TheDailyBlog.co.nz ' unites New Zealand 's leading left/centre-left commentators and progressive opinion shapers to provide the other side of the story on today 's news , media and political agendas. 
@@31526638 <h> Embassy of Israel in Wellington - Latest News Page 3 <p> Israel regrets the fatalities that resulted from yesterday 's military operation to arrest a Palestinian terrorist suspect . A formal investigation has been launched by the IDF , as part of the standard procedure in any case involving civilian casualties . More &gt;&gt; <p> " The reported use of chemical weapons against innocent civilians is terribly disturbing . If verified , it will be a horrible addition to the roster of tragic crimes committed by the Syrian regime against the people of Syria . More &gt;&gt; <p> Israel welcomes the court verdict in Thailand in which two Iranian terrorists , Saeid Moradi and Mohammad Kharzei , were convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment and 15 years in prison respectively , following their attempt to attack Israelis in Bangkok ... More &gt;&gt; <p> PM Netanyahu : " I think today everybody understands that the root cause of the instability in the Middle East and beyond has to do with the convulsion that is historic and cultural in nature , of which the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is ... More &gt;&gt; <p> Today , the first negotiation meeting was held between representatives of Israel and the European Union regarding Israel 's participation in the EU R&amp;D program for the years 2014-2020 , known as Horizon 2020 . More &gt;&gt; <p> Prime Minister Netanyahu instructed that a joint Government-community forum be established to promote the enlistment of Christian community youth in the IDF and national service and their integration into the life of the state . More &gt;&gt; <p> Prime Minister Netanyahu instructed that a joint Government-community forum be established to promote the enlistment of Christian community youth in the IDF and national service and their integration into the life of the state . More &gt;&gt; <p> This morning , mortar fire shook the early quiet for the communities of Northern Israel . The fasting and prayers of thousands of Israelis commemorating the Jewish holiday of Tisha B'Av were interrupted by a barrage of mortar shells fired from Syria . ... More &gt;&gt; <p> The " Grizim " underground electrical lines that supply electricity from Israel to Gaza 's northern region have been refurbished and upgraded over the past week . These lines supply 12.5 MW of electricity , which constitutes ten percent of the total amount ... More &gt;&gt; <p> 24 January 2013 By Shemi Tzur Israeli Ambassador To New Zealand Praises New Zealand For Raising Holocaust Awareness On Sunday 27 January the international community will remember the tragedies of the Holocaust on the day that has been marked as U.N . ... More &gt;&gt; <p> 19 October 2012 Mayor Nir Barkat to Inaugurate " Umm Kultum Street " in Beit Hanina ( Communicated by the Office of the Mayor 's Spokesman ) On Wednesday ( 17 Oct . ) , Jerusalem Mayor Nir Barkat will inaugurate a new street in Beit Hanina , in the name ... More &gt;&gt; <p> 22 August 2012 For Immediate Release Maori Students To Attend Prestigious Asian Science Camp Five of New Zealand 's top young scientific minds will attend the prestigious youth science gathering at the Asian Science Camp in Jerusalem -- Israel which will ... More &gt;&gt; 
@@31526639 <h> Hamas Statements : Kidnapping of Three Israeli Teenagers <p> Hamas Statements in the Period Leading Up to the Kidnapping of Three Israeli Teenagers <p> Introduction <p> A few days before the June 12th kidnapping of three Israeli teenagers in the West Bank , senior Hamas leaders and members issued statements containing calls to harm Israelis in order to bring about the release of Palestinian prisoners . References to the Gilad Shalit deal in which convicted terrorists were released in exchange for the kidnapped soldier and to saving the prisoners on hunger strikes are understood by the Palestinian audience to constitute appeals for additional kidnappings . <p> The statements also make it clear that the organization is still committed to armed resistance the Palestinian code-word for terrorism and the liberation of all the so-called " conquered lands " not just the West Bank and Gaza but all of Israel . <p> Additionally , statements were made that Hamas rejects the Palestinian Authority claims that the terrorist organization will abide by previous agreements made by the PA . <p> 1 . Hamas support for terrorism and calls for kidnapping/attacking Israelis <p> Ismail Haniyeh , Hamas ' former Prime Minister in Gaza and Deputy Chairman of Hamas 's political bureau : " Hamas will absolutely not renounce the weapon of resistance and will remain committed to resistance , whether it is in power or not ... Our link to resistance is sacred and goes beyond any governmental .... The Palestinian resistance that freed the Palestinian prisoners from Israeli jails in 2011 in the Gilad Shalit deal can free prisoners over and over again ... We have flown the flag of unity and appeasement with Fatah on the basis of the principles of resistance and dignity . " ( al-Youm al-Sa'aba , 6 June 2014 ) <p> Hassam Badran , Hamas spokesman : " Hamas is calling on the people of resistance in the West Bank , led by the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades Hamas ' terrorist faction , to fulfil their duty in order to preserve the life of the hunger-striking prisoners by harming the forces of the Israeli occupation and its settlers .... The occupation Israel must pay a steep price in the blood of its soldiers and settlers in order to be persuaded to resolve the issue of the hunger-striking prisoners . " ( al-Quds al-Arabi , 10 June 2014 ) <p> 2 . Hamas calls liberating " Palestinian " lands through terrorism <p> Ismail Haniyeh , Hamas ' former Prime Minister in Gaza and Deputy Chairman of Hamas ' Political Bureau : " The Palestinian people will continue the resistance until the land is freed -- Jerusalem , al-Aksa and the holy places -- from the Israeli occupation . Jerusalem is ours and the land is ours .... All actions of the Judaization of the land are null and void ; they do not affect our legitimate rights to the land in any way whatsoever . " ( al-Youm al-Sa'aba , 6 June 2014 ) <p> 3 . Call for replacing Israel with " Palestine " <p> Ismail Haniyeh , Hamas ' former Prime Minister in Gaza and Deputy Chairman of Hamas ' Political Bureau : " Our strategy , whether we 're in the government or not , is the liberation of the land and the formation of human character on the basis of belief and jihad ... The movement will continue to educate and take action for the liberation of all of Palestine , the return of the refugees , the release of the prisoners , and the establishment of a state on all of the land of Palestine with Jerusalem as its capital .... The summer camps of Hamas in the Gaza Strip stress the cultivation of a generation capable of liberating the homeland and Jerusalem and returning the refugees to their homes . ( Ma'an , Amama , 7 June 2014 ) <p> 4 . Hamas rejects Palestinian Authority claims that it is committed to previous agreements <p> Bassam Na'eem , Deputy Head of Hamas ' Political Department ( in Gaza ) : " Hamas is not bound by the announcement made by Prime Minister Hamdallah regarding the government 's commitment to the political program of President Abu Mazen Mahmoud Abbas and international agreements with Israel ... What concerns us is what we agreed to , and that is a joint government without a political program ... The political declarations and maneuvers by the government are not binding on Hamas ... What Hamdallah announced amounts to political hypocrisy and is not binding on us. " ( al-Ayam , 5 June 2014 ) <p> Sallah al-Bardwil , Hamas spokesman : " The declarations made by Prime Minister Hamdallah according to which the government is committed to all international agreements signed by the PLO are completely in contravention to the appeasement agreement and represent gross interference with political matters . " ( Ma'an , 2 June 2014 ) <h> Scoop Citizen Members and ScoopPro Organisations are the lifeblood of Scoop . <p> 20 years of independent publishing is a milestone , but your support is essential to keep Scoop thriving . We are building on our offering with new In-depth Engaged Journalism platform - thedig.nz . Find out more and join us : <p> " The world is screaming out for climate action but this summit had responded with a whisper . The poorest nations are in a sprint for survival yet many governments have barely moved from the starting blocks . Instead of committing to more ambitious cuts in emissions , countries have argued over technicalities . " More&gt;&gt; <p> In the fortnight since the Internet got switched back on in Iran , the ferocity of the crackdown on the recent demonstrations has become evident . Reportedly , hundreds of people have been killed , thousands wounded and thousands more have been arrested . More&gt;&gt; 
@@31530413 <h> PSNA welcomes the International Criminal Court decision to investigate Israeli war crimes and celebrates New Zealand 's special connection to the ICC action <p> Palestine Solidarity Network Aotearoa is delighted at yesterday 's decision by the International Criminal Court to begin the process of opening an investigation into Israeli war crimes against the Palestinian people of the West Bank , East Jerusalem and the Gaza strip . <p> The ICC Prosecutor , Fatou Bensouda , announced the decision saying : <p> I am satisfied that there is a reasonable basis to proceed with an investigation into the situation in Palestine , pursuant to article 53(1) of the Statute . In brief , I am satisfied that ( i ) war crimes have been or are being committed in the West Bank , including East Jerusalem , and the Gaza Strip ( " Gaza " ) ( ii ) potential cases arising from the situation would be admissible ; and ( iii ) there are no substantial reasons to believe that an investigation would not serve the interests of justice . <p> This is a long overdue decision but is welcome news . It will begin to hold the Israeli leadership and army personnel to account for the murder and mayhem visited on the Palestinian population for the past 70 years . <p> TDB Recommends NewzEngine.com <p> We are proud to have a New Zealander , Julie Webb-Pullman , working at the heart of the efforts to gather evidence and help prepare cases , to an exacting international standard , for the court . <p> Julie is a New Zealand journalist and human rights investigator who has lived in Gaza for the past eight years . She has been working with the Gaza Centre for Human Rights to train local Palestinians in the specialised work of gathering and preparing evidence of war crimes for consideration by the ICC . <p> So far Julie has been involved in helping file over 2000 specific cases with the ICC . These crimes relate mainly to the 2014 Israeli invasion of the Gaza strip when more than 2000 Palestinian civilians were killed , and the murder of over 200 unarmed Palestinian protestors in the Great March of Return protests over the past 20 months . <p> We will be calling on the New Zealand government once again to help facilitate Julie 's return to Gaza after Israeli pressure prevented her re-entering last week . Unfortunately , the government refused to assist last week so Julie was forced to return to New Zealand . <p> She is needed in Gaza now more than ever and we expect New Zealand to help facilitate this against Israeli intransigence . <p> Launched on Friday 1 March , 2013 , the ' TheDailyBlog.co.nz ' unites New Zealand 's leading left/centre-left commentators and progressive opinion shapers to provide the other side of the story on today 's news , media and political agendas. 
@@31533481 <h> Embassy of Israel in Wellington - Latest News Page 1 <p> Make no mistakes - There is no valid connection between the opening of the US Embassy in Jerusalem and the weeks ' old Hamas-orchestrated violent confrontation campaign already taking place in the Gaza Strip . More &gt;&gt; <p> It is regrettable that the report fails to recognize the profound difference between Israel 's moral behavior during Operation Protective Edge and the terror organizations it confronted . This report was commissioned by a notoriously biased institution , ... More &gt;&gt; <p> Upon receiving the first reports of the devastating earthquake that hit Nepal on Saturday , 25 April 2015 , Israel immediately initiated the supply of emergency humanitarian aid , flights to bring rescue and medical teams to the area , and the establishment ... More &gt;&gt; <p> Over the past three months , the IDF and the Israel Security Agency ( ISA ) have been working to uncover an extensive Hamas terror infrastructure operating in Jerusalem and the Judea and Samaria region ( the West Bank ) . More &gt;&gt; <p> 1 . Discrimination : The evidence collected so far about casualties in the Gaza Strip during Operation Protective Edge contradicts claims made by Hamas and various human rights organizations that the IDF attacks were " indiscriminate " and that the ... More &gt;&gt; <p> 31 July 2014 Israel is acting in Gaza in self-defense to hostilities initiated - and prolonged -by Hamas . In clear violation of international law , Hamas and the other terrorist organizations in Gaza have fired thousands of rockets , indiscriminate weapons ... More &gt;&gt; <p> Hamas violation of the humanitarian truce compelled Israel to resume its operation 28 July 2014 In light of the continued Hamas fire , Israel is compelled to resume its operation , effective immediately , against the Hamas terrorists who violated the ... More &gt;&gt; <p> In recent days , especially on the background of Iran 's " al-Quds Jerusalem Day " ( 25 July ) , senior Iranian officials have expressed their support for increasing military assistance to the terror organizations in the Gaza Strip , including Hamas ... More &gt;&gt; <p> ( Communicated by the IDF Spokesman ) The IDF has targeted specific sites and terrorists located within the premises of Al-Wafa hospital in Gaza City . This in light of several occasions in which fire was opened at IDF forces from within the hospital grounds , ... More &gt;&gt; <p> I. The Principle of Distinction A core principle of the law of armed conflict is the ' principle of distinction ' - the obligation imposed on each party to the conflict to ensure at all times that a distinction is made between combatants and civilians . ... More &gt;&gt; <p> Throughout the initial stages of Operation " Protective Edge " -- initiated in order to restore security to Israel 's civilian population under constant rocket and mortar fire from the Gaza Strip -- the IDF struck a number of houses throughout the Gaza ... More &gt;&gt; <p> A few days ago a video circulated in the media , showing two police officers arresting a man , while one of them uses excessive force , seemingly without any justification . Publications reported that this incident occurred during the riots in Shu'afat , in ... More &gt;&gt; <p> The IDF targeted a Hamas tunnel early Monday morning , preventing an imminent terror threat to Israeli citizens . Hamas terrorists built the tunnel , which extends from Gaza into Israel , in order to execute complex attacks against civilians and IDF soldiers . ... More &gt;&gt; 
@@31533875 <h> Embattled Netanyahu Faces Rare Challenge to Lead Likud <p> ( Bloomberg ) -- Benjamin Netanyahu has lost his air of invincibility after two inconclusive elections , and on Thursday he 'll see whether party loyalists are losing faith , too . <p> The Israeli prime minister 's failure this year to form a government after back-to-back votes has thrust him into the unfamiliar territory of defending his leadership of the nationalist Likud party . His challenger in Thursday 's contest , popular former cabinet minister Gideon Saar , says Netanyahu is as hemmed in as a checkmated chess king and it 's time for a new leader . <p> While party leaders and analysts predict Netanyahu will win , it 's been a year of unwelcome surprises for the 70-year-old Israeli leader , whose weakened standing after a year of political and legal turmoil invited the challenge from Saar . Saar , 57 , wants the party to switch candidates mid-race as Israel heads to its third vote in less than a year on March 2 . <p> Likud 's showing weakened in the second vote , and " anyone with eyes in his head knows that there is no chance that Netanyahu will be able to put together a coalition after the March 2 elections , " Saar told Likud members on Dec. 18 . A campaign clip on his Twitter page compares Netanyahu to a king on a chessboard with nowhere to move . <p> " Netanyahu is blocked , blocked , blocked , " the narrator intones . <p> Parliament disbanded in December for the third time in 11 months after neither Netanyahu nor former military chief Benny Gantz , the leader of the Blue and White bloc , managed to build a governing coalition . The prime minister 's political woes have been closely linked to corruption suspicions that ripened into an indictment against him in November . <p> Saar has won the endorsement of several mayors , party activists and other Likud lawmakers , but that might not be enough for the party to turn its back on the man who has led Likud for 20 years . <p> No State <p> The former interior and education minister shares Netanyahu 's hawkish approach . He opposes Palestinian statehood , saying no one can guarantee a Palestinian state would n't become a haven for Islamist militants that would threaten Israel 's main metropolitan areas . Instead , he advocates giving the Palestinians less than full sovereignty . <p> Saar worked in the state prosecutor 's office before Netanyahu named him cabinet secretary in 1999 . He became one of the most popular figures in Likud and frequently was mentioned as an heir apparent to Netanyahu . But after years of friction with the prime minister , he abruptly quit politics in 2014 , then returned three years later after police investigations raised doubts about Netanyahu 's grip on power . His entry to the Likud leadership race was the first serious challenge Netanyahu has faced in the party in 14 years . <p> Polls close at 11 p.m. and results are expected on Friday . On Wednesday night , Netanyahu was whisked offstage at a campaign event in the southern city of Ashkelon after sirens sounded signaling an incoming rocket from the Gaza Strip . The rocket was intercepted by a missile defense system . <p> Likud , which first rose to power in the late 1970s as a center-right alternative to Israel 's founding Labor party , prides itself on loyalty to its leaders . There have only been four party heads in its political history , and none of them was pushed out . <p> " Saar is putting up a real fight , " said Mitchell Barak , a pollster and former aide to Netanyahu . But the " Likud is not going to dump a sitting prime minister who is about to go to an election . " <p> ( Adds details on Saar from eighth paragraph ) <p> To contact the reporters on this story : Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at gackerman@bloomberg.net ; Ivan Levingston in Tel Aviv at **25;205;TOOLONG <p> To contact the editors responsible for this story : Riad Hamade at rhamade@bloomberg.net , Amy Teibel , Michael Gunn 
