@@31507202 <h> Palestinian Authority arrests scores of Hamas supporters <h> Hamas has welcomed Abbas 's initiative , saying it was planning to participate in the upcoming elections . <p> A member of security forces loyal to Hamas stands guard as supporters of former senior Fatah official Mohammad Dahlan take part in a rally marking the death anniversary of late Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat , in Gaza City November 9 , 2017 <p> ( photo credit : REUTERS/IBRAHEEM ABU MUSTAFA ) <p> Palestinian Authority security forces arrested dozens of Hamas supporters in the West Bank in the past few days . <p> The arrests came as Hamas celebrated the 32nd anniversary of its founding by holding mass rallies in the Gaza Strip . <p> At least 66 Hamas supporters have been arrested or summoned for interrogation by PA security forces in recent days , according to Hamas spokesman Abdel Rahman Shadid . <p> He warned that the crackdown would have a negative impact on PA President Mahmoud Abbas 's plan to hold parliamentary and presidential elections . <p> Hamas has welcomed Abbas 's initiative , saying it was planning to participate in the upcoming elections . <p> Shadid said , however , that the PA campaign against Hamas supporters does not bode well for the prospects of holding a free and fair vote . <p> Hamas official Hazem Qassem said the crackdown was " a continuation of the Palestinian Authority 's delusion that it can uproot the presence of Hamas in the West Bank . " He urged the PA to halt " this national and moral crime , and create the appropriate atmosphere for free and fair elections . " <p> Another Hamas official , Husam Badran , accused the IDF of arresting several Hamas supporters in the West Bank in recent days . He claimed that the IDF was taking advantage of its security coordination with the PA security forces to step up the campaign against Hamas . <p> In a statement on the occasion of its 32nd anniversary , Hamas vowed to pursue the fight against Israel , " until the liberation of the land , the return of the refugees and the establishment of an independent Palestinian state on all Palestine . " <p> The statement said that Hamas was prepared to continue working toward thwarting the Oslo Accords signed between Israel and the PLO in 1993 . <p> Senior Hamas official Izzat al-Risheq said in a speech marking the anniversary that his movement today was " politically and militarily stronger than before , and remains committed to the option of resistance as a means to liberate the land and holy sites . " <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31514205 <p> The United Nations General Assembly on Friday overwhelmingly renewed the mandate for a U.N . agency supporting Palestinian refugees for another three years amid misconduct allegations and a cash shortfall triggered by a halt in U.S. funding . <p> By Michelle Nichols <p> UNITED NATIONS , Dec 13 ( Reuters ) - The United Nations General Assembly on Friday overwhelmingly renewed the mandate for a U.N . agency supporting Palestinian refugees for another three years amid misconduct allegations and a cash shortfall triggered by a halt in U.S. funding . <p> The mandate of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees ( UNRWA ) was extended until June 30 , 2023 , with 169 votes in favor and nine abstentions , while the United States and Israel voted against . <p> UNRWA , which as established in 1949 , provides education , health and relief services as well as housing and microfinance assistance to more than 5 million registered refugees in the West Bank , Gaza Strip and East Jerusalem , as well as in Jordan , Lebanon and Syria . <p> The agency has faced budgetary difficulties since last year , when the United States - its biggest donor - halted its aid of $360 million per year . The United States and Israel have both accused UNRWA of mismanagement and anti-Israeli incitement . <p> In a statement published by the official Palestinian news agency WAFA , Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas praised the vote as a victory for international law and the rights of the Palestinian refugees . <p> The Islamist group Hamas , which runs the Gaza Strip , hailed the U.N . vote as a defeat for the United States and a failure of its attempts to pressure U.N . member-states against UNRWA . <p> " We welcome the decision to renew the international mandate to UNRWA and we see it as another failure to hostile U.S. policies to the Palestinian rights , " Hamas official Sami Abu Zuhri told Reuters . <p> The U.S. mission to the United Nations did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the vote . <p> Last month UNRWA Commissioner-General Pierre Krahenbuhl resigned amid an investigation into misconduct allegations . Krahenbuhl has denied wrongdoing and said his agency was the victim of a political campaign designed to undermine it . <p> Switzerland , the Netherlands and Belgium suspended payments to UNRWA over the inquiry , deepening the budget crisis set off last year by the United States . UNRWA hopes the management shake-up will help pacify donors , said a source with knowledge of the organization 's thinking . <p> The United States has advocated shifting the agency 's relief services to refugee host countries . But UNRWA counters it provides a humanitarian lifeline and that it safeguards and advances Palestinians ' rights under international law . <p> Hanan Ashrawi , a senior Palestine Liberation Organization official , praised the U.N . vote on Friday and said it was the United Nations ' responsibility to combat what she called U.S. and Israeli attacks on Palestinian refugees . <p> " All attempts at trying to limit UNRWA 's mandate or defund it or attack it have failed , and we hope that the international community will continue to come to the rescue , " she said . <h> Other Topics <h> Latest Markets Videos <p> Reuters , the news and media division of Thomson Reuters , is the world 's largest international multimedia news provider reaching more than one billion people every day . Reuters provides trusted business , financial , national , and international news to professionals via Thomson Reuters desktops , the world 's media organizations , and directly to consumers at Reuters.com and via Reuters TV . <p> Sign up for our newsletter to get the latest on the transformative forces shaping the global economy , delivered every Thursday . <p> Email Address* <p> Country* <h> Please opt-in to receive news and information about Nasdaq 's services . <p> If you do not opt-in you will not receive any emails from Nasdaq . <p> Yes ! I would like to receive Nasdaq communications related to Products , Industry News and Events.You can always change your preferences or unsubscribe and your contact information is covered by our Privacy Policy . 
@@31517408 <h> A record of terror <p> " YOU do not fight terror by shaking hands with a terrorist , " said a senior Arab diplomat based in Delhi . He was referring to the visit of Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon to India in the second week of September . Sharon 's career-graph bears ample testimony to his predilection to use violence and terror to achieve the goals of the Zionist blueprint for the region . An unabashed votary of Eretz Israel ' ( Greater Israel ) , Sharon was involved in right-wing terrorist activity from the age of 14 , when he joined the Haganah , an underground Jewish militant organisation that used terrorist methods against the native Palestinians and the British colonial administration . <p> At the Shatila refugee camp after the massacre of 1982. -ALAIN MINGAM/GAMMA <p> Sharon achieved notoriety in 1953 , when he was given command of the " Unit 101 " , which was involved in special commando operations against Palestinian villages . The unit 's specific task was to terrorise Palestinian villagers . Many innocent women and children were victims of its killing spree . To the international community , the massacre in the West Bank village of Qibya gave the first inkling of Sharon 's ruthlessness . Troops under his command blew up 45 houses , killing 65 civilians , about half of them women and children . The United States State Department issued a statement at that time demanding that the guilty be " brought to account " . No action was taken . Sharon 's fortunes , instead , was on the ascendant . <p> He was soon appointed commander of a paratroop brigade , which saw action in the Sinai Peninsula during the Suez crisis of 1957 . True to form , the troops under Sharon 's command participated in another massacre - this time killing 270 Egyptian prisoners of war . This story re-surfaced in the Israeli media in 1996 , after an investigation conducted by the Israeli Army 's military history division . <p> In 1971 , Sharon was again involved in acts of ethnic cleansing - this time in the Gaza Strip . Two thousand Palestinian homes were destroyed , uprooting 12,000 refugees who had been displaced earlier when Israel came into being . It was during this time that Sharon , with the approval of the Israeli state , started the practice of targeted assassinations . More than 100 Palestinian guerrillas were killed in 1971 , during the Sharon supervised military campaign in Gaza . <p> However , it was the Israeli invasion of Lebanon in 1982 that brought Sharon notoriety on a global scale . As Defence Minister he had orchestrated the invasion of Lebanon , killing over 29,500 Palestinians and Lebanese . It is estimated that around 40 per cent of those killed were children . The massacre at the Sabra and Shatila refugee camps , which went on for two days from September 16 , 1982 , continues to be a bleeding wound ; although those responsible for the act have not been brought to justice so far . More than 2,750 people , many of them children , perished at the hands of the right-wing Phalangist militia , acting at the behest of the Israeli Army , under Sharon 's command . An official Israeli Commission of Inquiry found that Sharon , among others , was responsible for the massacre of non-combatant civilians . A court in Belgium was on the verge of admitting a war crimes petition against Sharon under a law that allowed local courts to try foreigners for crimes against humanity . The petition was filed by relatives of those who perished in Sabra and Shatila . But pressure from the Bush administration forced the Belgian government to amend the law and Sharon escaped trial . <p> Sharon , in his zeal to achieve the goal of a Greater Israel , which would extend from the Red Sea to the Mediterranean , has played a key role in expanding the settlements on the occupied territories . <p> The first big settlement expansion took place between 1977 and 1992 , when the Likud had decisive say in the government . During this period , the number of Jewish settlers in the occupied territories went up by more than 2,000 per cent . The so-called " Falasha " Jews from Ethiopia were smuggled into Israel through Sudan . Sharon also had a cosy relationship with unsavoury African heads of state and controversial political figures like Mobutu Sese Seko of Zaire and Jonas Savimbi of Angola . He had met both these leaders in the early 1980s during visits to the African continent . Israel was desperate for friends those days . Sharon , using his links with the Reagan administration , helped Mobutu get U.S. aid on generous terms . Mobutu established diplomatic links with Israel in return . Israel also provided security advisers and trained Mobutu 's praetorian guards , helping the dictator to hold on to power and bankrupt the country . Sharon used his trips to Angola to aid and advise the rapacious Savimbi and his South African backers , in their efforts to destabilise the legitimate government in Luanda . <p> Ariel Sharon testifying before a commission of inquiry on the massacres in the Sabra and Shatila refugee camps. -NEUMANN BENAMI/GAMMA <p> The fall of the Soviet Union facilitated the influx of a large number of Russian immigrants to Israel . As Minister of Construction and Housing , Sharon went on a settlement-building spree in the occupied territories . After the Oslo accord , he was again put in charge of accelerating the pace of illegal Jewish settlements in these territories . In the post-Oslo period , under Sharon 's supervision , Israel established 30 new settlements , doubling the settler population from 109,000 in 1993 to nearly 200,000 in 1999 . While ostensibly trying to " promote " the peace process with the Palestinians , Sharon as Foreign Minister in 1998 advised the extremist right-wing Tsomet Party to keep up the tempo of settlement activities . " Everybody has to move , run and grab as many hilltops as they can to enlarge the settlements because everything we take now will stay ours ... . Everything we do n't grab will go to them , " Sharon told the Tsomet Party faithful . <p> Sharon almost single-handedly sparked the second Palestinian Intifada in 2000 . In a brazenly provocative move , Sharon , who was the Likud Party 's prime ministerial candidate at that time , visited the Al-Aqsa mosque , the third holiest shrine in Islam , accompanied by around 1,000 armed Israeli soldiers . The visit was meant to emphasise Israel 's " sovereignty " over Jerusalem , especially the mosque . The United Nations Human Rights Commission adopted a resolution criticising the " the provocative visit to Al-Haram al-Sharif on September 28 , 2000 by Ariel Sharon , the Likud Party leader , which triggered the tragic events that followed in occupied East Jerusalem and other occupied Palestinian territories , resulting in a high number of deaths and injuries among Palestinian civilians " . The passions that erupted and the bloodshed that followed gave Sharon the political momentum necessary to win the general elections that followed a few months later . Since the second Intifada started , more than 3,500 Palestinians and 1,000 Israelis have been killed . <p> As Prime Minister , Sharon accelerated Israel 's annexation programme in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip . The U.S. sponsored " road map for peace " had specifically called for a freeze on Israeli settlement building activity and the dismantling of newly constructed settlements . Instead , Sharon has given his tacit go-ahead to the settlers to grab even more territory . Sharon had signalled to his supporters that he would never accept the possibility of a viable Palestinian state existing alongside Israel . The Palestinian Foreign Minster Nabil Sha'ath , while on an official visit to Delhi , admitted that there was no possibility of any peace plan succeeding as long as Sharon remained in charge of things in Israel . The Minister said that Israel is perhaps the only country that uses helicopter gun-ships and F-16 fighters to target civilians during times of peace . <p> The 1,000 km long " wall " currently being built by the Israeli government to separate physically their state from the West Bank and Gaza will take away even more Palestinian land . Targeted killings of Palestinian individuals belonging to radical organisations continues unabated under the Sharon dispensation . U.S.-supplied Apache helicopter gun-ships attack cars carrying Hamas activists . Along with the intended targets innocent people get killed invariably . Recently , the Israeli security forces used a one-tonne bomb to target a Hamas leader in the Gaza strip . He along with his entire family , which included nine children , died in the attack on the apartment complex in which he lived . <p> Before Sharon departed for India , the Israeli government once again opened up the Al Aqsa mosque for Jewish visitors to pray . Palestinians under the age of 40 are not allowed to pray in the mosque . The Sharon government cites security reasons . Palestinians in the occupied territories find it difficult to make the journey to the Al Aqsa mosque , hampered as they are by innumerable roadblocks , detours and checkpoints put up by the occupying Israeli Army . <p> There have been calls from the international community demanding that the judicial authorities in Israel start investigating Ariel Sharon . Article 146 of the Geneva Convention ( " Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War " ) states that each High Contracting Party " shall be under the obligation to search for persons alleged to have committed , or to have ordered to be committed " grave breaches of the convention . India is a party to the Geneva Convention . 
@@31521703 <h> Qatar delivers more cash to Gaza as part of truce understandings <h> Haniyeh : We 'll accept Palestinian state on ' 67 borders , but without recognizing Israel . <p> Hamas Chief Ismail Haniyeh gestures as he speaks during a rally marking the 31st anniversary of Hamas ' founding , in Gaza City December 16 , 2018 <p> ( photo credit : IBRAHEEM ABU MUSTAFA/REUTERS ) <p> Qatar on Saturday delivered another cash grant to the Gaza Strip , paving the way for the distribution of payments to Palestinian families , sources in the Gaza Strip said . <p> Some 60,000 families will benefit from the latest Qatari funds , the Qatari Committee for the Reconstruction of the Gaza Strip said on Saturday . <p> The committee said that each family will receive $100 on Sunday . The money will be distributed through the local post office in the Gaza Strip . The committee did not provide further details , particularly concerning the amount of cash that was delivered to the Gaza Strip . <p> The sources said that the Qatari grant was delivered thanks to mediation efforts made by Egypt and the United Nations in the past few days . <p> The efforts , the sources said , were in the context of attempts to solidify truce understandings reached between Israel and Hamas earlier this year . <p> Last week , Egyptian intelligence officials held talks in Israel and the Gaza Strip on ways of preserving the understandings and averting an all-out military confrontation between Hamas and Israel . <p> According to the sources , the Egyptian officials managed to persuade Israel to take additional measures to ease restrictions imposed on the Gaza Strip . The measures include , among other things , the expansion of the fishing zone in the Gaza Strip , increasing the number of work permits in Israel for Palestinian laborers and businessmen and allowing Qatar to deliver more funds to the Hamas-ruled coastal enclave , the sources said . <p> The Egyptian intelligence officials ' visit came after Hamas and other Gaza-based terror groups accused Israel of foot-dragging with regard to the implementation of the truce understandings . Hamas and Islamic Jihad officials claimed that Israel was " deliberately procrastinating " the implementation of the understandings and threatened to walk out of the unwritten truce agreement . <p> Meanwhile , Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh revealed that a senior delegation from his movement was expected to arrive in Tehran on Saturday for talks with Iranian leaders.Haniyeh , who was speaking to Turkish journalists in Istanbul through video conference , expressed hope that the Hamas delegation 's visit to Iran will " achieve important results . " He did not provide additional details . <p> A Hamas official in the Gaza Strip said that his movement was currently seeking to improve its relations with Iran and restore its ties with Syria.Relations between Hamas and Syria and Iran were strained after the Gaza-based movement refused to publicly support Syrian President Bashar Assad in the civil war that began in 2011 . <p> The Syrians responded by expelling Hamas leaders and closing their offices . Iran , for its part , is said to have reduced financial and military aid to Hamas because of its refusal to take sides in the civil war . <p> In the interview with the Turkish journalists , Haniyeh said that Hamas was keen on restoring its relations with Syria . " We have n't meddled in the internal affairs of Syria in the past , and we have no intention to do so in the future , " the Hamas leader said . " We hope to see Syria strong again . " <p> Haniyeh said that Hamas was not opposed to the establishment of a Palestinian state " on the 1967 borders . " He added , however , that would not mean that Hamas recognizes Israel . <p> " We are committed to not recognizing the occupation on the rest of the Palestinian territories , " he said , referring to Israel . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31522102 <h> Palestinians paying thousands of dollars in bribes to leave Gaza <p> Rafah border crossing is the main access point for Gazans facing a punishing Israeli blockade Mohammed Saber/EPA-EFE <p> Gaza City , Gaza - For residents of the besieged Gaza Strip , there are two ways to leave and neither is easy . The first route is via the Erez crossing on the eastern edge of the territory into Israel , while the second option is to travel south to Egypt via Rafah . <p> The Erez route requires obtaining permission from the Israeli authorities . The permits are extremely difficult to acquire and limited to those who fit into several categories , including some pre-approved businessmen and medical cases . The route through the Israeli-controlled crossing also brings the risk of being pressured to spy for Israeli intelligence agencies , Hamas officials told Al Jazeera . <p> On the other hand , exiting via Rafah means the prospect of waiting for months to obtain travel documents from the Hamas government in Gaza . <p> However , there is a wayto expedite the process which involves spending hundreds , or sometimes thousands of dollars in bribes to jump the queue . <p> Since Hamas seized control of Gaza in 2007 , after unexpectedly winning the Palestinian elections the previous year , both Israel and Egypt have imposed a stifling blockade on the coastal enclave , choking off Gaza 's economy and severely constraining the movement of its residents . <p> For the vast majority of the 1.9 million residents of Gaza , the Rafah route is often the only viable option . In order to leave via Egypt , they register their request with the Hamas government , but with thousands of names on the waiting lists , approvals can take months . <p> This is where " travel agents and representatives " - Gaza-based brokers who work with Egyptian intelligence officers to expedite the movement of Palestinians , enter the scene.Known in Arabic as " Tanseeqat " or " Coordination " , they advertise on social media that they can arrange immediate travel to , or through , Egypt . <p> Hala agency is one of the largest companies offering such services . With offices in Gaza City , it arranges the trip for $1,200 per person , an amount equivalent to about three times the average monthly salary of a civil worker here . <p> Hala describes its services as " VIP travel " and includes transport from Gaza to Cairo without delays at the busy crossing . <p> Payments must be made at Egyptian intelligence offices in Egypt , according to activists in Gaza and abroad , who spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of reprisals . <p> Inside Egypt - Gaza truce : Is Egypt an honest broker ? <p> These types of services are also advertised on social media . One online advert , which provided a local phone number , guaranteed a trip to Egypt for $650 . <p> A person who answered the phone number listed on the advert identified himself as Abu Amr . He told Al Jazeera a would-be traveller must send a passport copy via WhatsApp , pay the amount at a local currency exchange and within two days they would be on their way to Egypt or beyond . <p> " And if by any chance the traveller was turned back he will get his money back , " said Abu Amr , who said his only communication with travellers is by phone or WhatsApp messages . <h> ' Clean and honourable ' <p> An Egyptian intelligence agent in Gaza , who spoke on condition of anonymity , denied the Egyptian army and intelligence branches were exploiting the plight of Palestinians in Gaza . <p> " The Egyptian intelligence is clean and honourable , " he said , adding that he personally knows many high-ranking officers at the border crossing who are " very professional " . <p> Hasan Abu Zakaria , a local businessman from Gaza , told Al Jazeera he wanted to leave for Europe to attend his son 's graduation and paid more than a $1,000 to a local broker . <p> The fees can jump when clashes between armed groups and Israeli forces flare up , or when the Egyptian government closes the border . <p> Mohammed Hussein Khalaf , a student from Gaza who is now in Jordan , told Al Jazeera his family paid $4,000 for him to leave two years ago after Egypt tightened entry restrictions on Palestinians from Gaza . They raised the funds mostly by borrowing from relatives , he told Al Jazeera . <p> According to the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs ( OCHA ) , more than 70,000 people had already left via Rafah so far in 2019 , up from 61,000 the previous year and only 16,000 in 2017 . <p> The crossing has been open for 219 days so far this year , according to OCHA , up from 198 days in 2018 . <p> A Palestinian official at the Rafah crossing , who spoke on the condition of anonymity , told Al Jazeera that an average of two buses , carrying a total of about 100 Palestinians who had paid between $600-$1,200 per person , arrived at the crossing each day that it was open . <p> " This vast amount of money is siphoned off from poor Gazans every month by the Egyptians , " said the official . <h> Risks entering Israel <p> According to OCHA , more than 168,000 people have exited Gaza through Erez so far this year , including 110,000 who belonged to the business/traders category , while some 32,400 people left with medical permits . <p> Hamas officials told Al Jazeera that Israeli intelligence agents often attempt to recruit the Palestinians who are allowed to travel via Erez to spy on the organisation in Gaza . <p> Israel has waged three wars against Hamas in Gaza since 2008 , in which thousands of Palestinian civilians were killed and many residential areas destroyed . <p> In an attempt to counter recruitment efforts by Israeli intelligence officials , Hamas has imposed requirements on those who travel to Israel to obtain permits and also provide it with detailed information about their reason for travelling . <p> On the Palestinian side at the Erez crossing , Hamas officials have plastered posters warning Palestinians about potential interactions with Israeli intelligence officers . <p> " Do not listen to the Israeli intelligence threats of hurting you , " one poster read . <p> " Do n't be on the side of the enemy against your own people and your own homeland , do n't give them the chance , " said another . 
@@31527509 <h> Wrongs of history <p> Israel faces challenges from three sources : its assertive Arab citizens , its peace lobby and the new generation in Arab countries . <p> The 60th birth anniversary of a state should be a moment of celebration . If little of it was evident on May 14 , 2008 , it was because increasingly large numbers of Israelis are beginning to ponder over the future of their state . It was established in the worst possible circumstances the forcible expulsion of the Arabs to whom Palestine belonged by foreign immigrants . It is a long time since they felt so unsure about the future , The Economist remarked ( January 12 , 2008 ) . Few feel that the 60th Anniversary of the State whose birth marked their separation from other ( sic . ) Palestinians will be anything to celebrate . Uri Avnery , an Israeli writer , said that day : The nation is in no mood for celebrations . It is gloomy . <p> To the Arabs , what happened on May 14 , 1948 , was Al Nakba ( the catastrophe ) . One fifth of the Israelis are Arabs of about 1.13 million . They fully sympathise with the 2.5 million in the West Bank and the 1.47 million in the Gaza Strip . Add to them 2.8 million in Jordan , 1.64 million in other Arab countries , 0.57 million in the rest of the world and you have a nation of 10.1 million dispossessed from its own lands . Their plight is tragic beyond words . <p> The Economist summed up the situation crisply ( May 10 , 2008 ) : The world has a moral obligation to help the Palestinians . But self-interest is at stake as well . However tired people in the West may be of Palestine and its woes , this cause electrifies millions of Muslims and helps to stir the global jihad . If it is soluble at all , it can certainly never be solved without the full attention of America , the only country which Israel really trusts and that has the power to coax or coerce it into territorial compromise . That is why most of this decade has been wasted : a distracted or uninterested George Bush claimed to believe in Palestinian statehood but did nothing serious to bring it about , failing even to slow Israels colonisation of the West Bank . Americas next President must not repeat this mistake . <p> It is a vain counsel . Barack Obama rushed to the American Israel Public Affairs Committee ( AIPAC ) and declared that Jerusalem must be the capital of Israel . This is what H.D.S. Greenway wrote of it on June 11 . AIPAC is the most formidable foreign policy lobbying group in the United States , as evidenced by the desire of all the presidential candidates to address its meeting . One can argue whether the lobby has too much influence over American foreign policy , but it is but one of many groups working hard to bend American foreign policy one way or another . <p> What AIPAC wants , Michael Massing once wrote in the New York Review of Books , is a powerful Israel free to occupy the territory it chooses , enfeebled Palestinians , and unquestioning support for Israel by the United States . <p> True to form , The Economist asks Palestinians to come to terms with the obvious . But the status quo keeps changing constantly . It , however , concedes that the Hamas leaders hint that if Israel gave up all the territory conquered in 1967 it would earn a long-term truce , which just might one day become permanent . It is of crucial importance to acknowledge that Hamas represents most of the Arabs and is alone competent to deliver . Israels intransigence is responsible for Hamas arrival on the stage . <p> The Nakba did not end in 1948 . It continues , still . Virtually every day another Palestinian joins the ranks of the millions removed from their native land and denied the right to return , Prof. Saree Makdisi remarks and describes how in 2006 Israel stripped 1,363 Palestinians in Jerusalem of their right to live in the city in which they were born . They are denied permits to build homes . Over 300 homes in Jerusalem were demolished between 2004 and 2007 and 18,000 demolished since 1967 in the occupied territories . In the last decade , the number of settlers in the West Bank has increased from 150,000 to more than 250,000 . In the heart of Hebron , one of its largest cities with 160,000 Palestinians , Israel maintains a Jewish settlement with 800 people , to protect whom a massive system of grand posts and checkpoints has been established . Several thousand Palestinians have been driven from their homes . <p> Israel 's withdrawal from Gaza was accompanied by the building of a huge wall in populated areas and an impassable fence in rural areas , entirely within the occupied territory. -ELIANA APONTE/REUTERS <p> There are a few like Bernard Avishai who hold that Israel can not be both a Jewish state and a democracy . It is almost impossible for non-Jews to buy land owned by the state . Israelis can not be described as Israelis in the states population register . They must be registered according to their religion or ethnic origin . Unrecognised Arab villages have languished for decades without municipal services . Israel faces challenges from three sources its assertive Arab citizens , whose population increases alarmingly ( to Israelis ) ; its peace lobby ; and the new generation in Arab countries . <p> A lot has happened since Guy Wint and Peter Calvocoressi wrote their incisive work Middle East Crisis ( A Penguin Special ) in 1957 . Israel has become a nuclear power . It occupied the West Bank and the Gaza Strip in 1967 . It has become more repressive than ever before but it has won greater international acceptance . Iraq , militarily the strongest Arab state , is destroyed . The U.S. has abandoned all pretence to being an honest broker . It has acquired a huge military presence in the region and is negotiating with occupied Iraq for bases . <p> Yet , in some significant respects , nothing has changed . The Jews , for all their adjustment to their new land , remained a foreign body in the Middle East West Asia . They might have a military preponderance and such superiority in organisation that the Arabs were overawed . But the Jews , looking ahead , believed that in the long run the Arabs too must learn the art of organising modern military states . When that day came , how could Israel , with its population of less than a million , survive against the pressure of forty million Arabs ? In the end the 40 million Arabs must prevail over the 1-11/2 million Israelis if the Arabs are determined and united and become just a little less inefficient . <p> They did not and Israel took full advantage of their disunity , incompetence , corruption , and contemptible dependence on the U.S. Hamas was born as a reaction to this state of affairs . In India , as in the West , there is colossal ignorance about it . Dr. Jeroen Gunnings interview to A. Rangarajan ( The Hindu , July 4 , 2008 ) helps to dispel some wrong notions : Hamas is not a monolith and to treat it so is a recipe for disaster . The tendency is to look at the more extreme elements and treat them as the sole identity of Hamas . Its leadership is open to political compromise if right conditions present themselves . What some Hamas leaders suggest is a Ludnah or a long-term ceasefire leading to a political settlement based on a return to the 1967 borders and an end to violence . <p> Jimmy Carter , former President of the U.S. , formed a similar impression after a visit to Palestine last April ( Talking to terrorists , International Herald Tribune , April 28 , 2008 ) . Hamas won the elections held on January 25 , 2006 . It offered to form a unity government with Mahmoud Abbas as President and to give key Ministries to Fatah , including Foreign Affairs and Finance . <p> But it was declared to be a terrorist organisation by the U.S. and Israel , and the elected Palestinian coalition was forced to dissolve . Eventually , Hamas gained control of Gaza , and Fatah is governing the Israeli-occupied West Bank . Opinion polls show Hamas steadily gaining in popularity . Carter listed the positive responses of Hamas leaders to his suggestions . <p> One must read Zaki Chehabs work fully to understand Hamas . He is one of the Arab worlds leading journalists . Hamas won 74 of the 132 seats in the Palestine Legislative Council . Fatah won 45 . Chehab describes how , having boycotted the elections earlier , Hamas began quietly to prepare for victory at the elections this time . <p> The first meeting to launch Hamas was held in the home of its founder Sheikh Yasin on December 9 , 1987 . It was to be a branch of the Muslim Brotherhood . As his wheelchair moved towards a mosque , a paralysed Yasin was assassinated on March 22 , 2004 , on the personal orders of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon . So was his successor Dr. Abdul Aziz al Rantisi on April 17 , 2004 . ( The first Intifada began on December 14 , 1987 . ) <p> Chehab traces the career of this remarkable organisation very ably and in detail . It has a complex set-up with its military and intelligence cells . Sheikh Yasin used to stress the need for coexistence between Jews , Christians and Muslims , claiming that he was not against Jews as people of a Jewish religion , but rather he was against those who have abused our lands . <p> Israels persecution strengthens the movement . The author traces the relationships it forged with the Arab states , particularly Jordan and Qatar and Syria , as also with Iran . The chapter on International Relations is one of the most instructive parts of the book . Hamas did nt register on Americas political radar until the series of suicide bomb attacks in Israel which brought Netanyahu , Israels youngest Prime Minister to power in 1996 . Until then , none of the American officials or Secretaries of State or even U.S. President Bill Clinton had intimated that the Hamas issue was of major concern on them . <p> While President Clinton was trying to broker an elusive peace between the Israelis and the Palestinians , the FBI was secretly funnelling money to suspected Hamas members in a sting operation to see whether the money would be used to fund terror attacks . The FBIs 1998-1999 counter-terrorism operation was run from its Phoenix , Arizona , Bureau in coordination with Israeli intelligence and , according to FBI officials , was approved by the Attorney General , Janet Reno . Several thousands of U.S. dollars were sent to suspected Hamas supporters during the operation as the FBI tried to track the flow of cash . It was a rare acknowledgement of an undercover sting that resulted in no prosecutions . <p> The book is based on research in the records as well as interviews with people in the know . <p> Al Qaedas No. 2 , Ayman Al Zawahiri , criticised Hamas for accepting seats in the Palestinian Authority . Both Khalid Mishal , the exiled political bureau head of Hamas in Damascus , who was invited to Moscow to the dismay of many , and Hamas Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh distanced themselves from Osama bin Ladens comments on Palestine . Hamas did not need his guidance , they said . <p> The interests of both the mainstream Palestinian population and the more extreme groups including Hamas are very simple , the return of their land and the formation of their own state . Al Qaeda , on the other hand , has a more nebulous interest which includes the unlikely re-establishment of the Caliphate , the elimination of Western interests from all Muslim lands and a full-blown conflict of civilisation . Therefore , theoretically , Al Qaeda and the Palestinians should not make easy partners . But with the tension in the Middle East showing no sign of abating , Al Qaedas potential to recruit the most disaffected Palestinian elements has remained strong , as was the case with the three Hamas members arrested by Egyptian security services in the aftermath of the series of suicide bomb attacks on resorts in the Sinai over the last few years . Any future alliance between Palestinian militants and Al Qaeda is likely to harm the more focussed cause of the Palestinian nation by tainting it with wanton and random violence and hatred that the wider world has come to associate with Al Qaeda . <p> The decision to jail the Hamas government and destroy the movements infrastructure was taken at a Cabinet meeting , chaired by Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and Minister of Defence Amir Perez . A spate of bombing raids began on July 2 , 2006 , lasting days and pounding the Prime Ministers offices in Ramallah , Gaza and Neblus , and the Ministries of Interior and Foreign Affairs in Gaza . As part of the same offensive , bombs destroyed the empty offices of the Prime Minister in Gaza . Israel tried to assassinate Ismail Haniyeh . He was protected more than once by President Mahmoud Abbas , though he belonged to the rival Fatah . <p> Mishal called the shots from Damascus . The Hamas leadership was reconciled to the fact that it would be impossible for one party to manage the political crisis single-handedly and that only a coalition government would provide the way forward . In this instance , the Prime Minister would still be a representative from the Hamas movement as they held the majority in the Parliament . According to Hamas , such a government would be formed on the basis of the National Reconciliation . Document of the Prisoners , or the Prisoners Document as it became known , giving the Palestinian Authority overall power to negotiate on behalf of its people . The eighteen-point document , which was signed by a coalition of Palestinian prisoners on 26 May 2006 , called for the establishment of an independent Palestinian state in the West Bank and Gaza Strip and East Jerusalem and the right of return for all refugees to their original homes . The document also laid down a framework to coordinate the different military factions under one umbrella . There was cautious mention of Israels right to exist the most sensitive topic . The Palestine Liberation Organisation had already accepted this point . Hamas found it politically expedient to go along with it . Hamas and Fatah formed a coalition , only to break up . The U.S. and Israel ensured that . <p> Sheikh Yasin , The founder of Hamas . As his wheelchair moved towards a mosque , a paralysed Yasin was assassinated on March 22 , 2004 , on the personal orders of Israel Prime Minister Ariel Sharon. -SUHAIB SALEM/REUTERS <p> The author holds that the facts on the ground are that , whatever Hamas political fortunes , they are not just going to melt into the background , nor will any military action succeed in eradicating them . The idea that the Israeli army could destroy Hamas by rolling in the tanks and raining down the missiles brings to mind a chilling American comment during the Vietnam War . We destroyed that village in order to save it . This strategy did not work in Vietnam and it will not work with Hamas . Hamas is not some alien guerrilla force . It is someones brother , neighbour , or the guy who gives your son money for his education . For as long as these people represent the Palestinian people at the ballot box , the West and any future Palestinian Authority will have to accept it for what it is a leopard that is unlikely to change its spots and negotiate with Hamas . <p> Carter confirms this . He said on April 2 , 2008 , that Hamas leaders had told him they would accept a peace agreement negotiated by their rival , Mahmoud Abbas , the Palestinian President , if Palestinians approved the deal in a vote . They said they would accept a Palestinian state on the 1967 borders if approved by Palestinians even though Hamas might disagree with some terms of the agreement . <p> Carter said , The problem is that Israel and the United States refuse to meet with these people , who must be involved . There is no doubt that both the Arab world and the Palestinians , including Hamas , will accept Israels right to live in peace within the 1967 borders . <p> Carters book is certain to rank as a classic . It created a stir because Americans are not prepared to hear any criticism of Israel . It is packed with the basic data essential to forming an informed opinion texts of documents , maps and brief history . Carter , architect of the Camp David Accords when he was President , sympathises with Israel but rejects its post-1967 expansionism and repression in the lands it occupied . <p> I have to admit that , at the time ( 1973 ) , I equated the ejection of Palestinians from their previous homes within the State of Israel to the forcing of Lower Creek Indians from the Georgia land where our family farm was now located ; they had been moved west to Oklahoma on the Trail of Tears to make room for our white ancestors . In the most recent case , although equally harsh , the taking of land had been ordained by the international community through an official decision of the United Nations . The Palestinians had to comply and after all , they could return or be compensated in the future , and they were guaranteed undisputed ownership of East Jerusalem , the West Bank , and Gaza . <p> Chehab is one of the many who can identify still their lost homes in Israel . All that was ordained by the international community ( read : the West led by Britain ( 1919-48 ) and then by the U.S. since 1948 ) . Israels former Foreign Minister Abba Eban told Carter that the detention centres and associated punitive and repressive procedures necessary to govern hundreds of thousands of Arabs against their will would torment Israel with a kind of quasi-colonial situation that was being abolished throughout the rest of the world . <p> The book created a furore in the U.S. and in Israel because it exposed the actual situation in Israel , the wreck of the Oslo Accords , and the fraudulent character of the proposals offered to the Palestinians by President Clinton . It envisaged 209 settlements on the West Bank . There is a zone with a radius of about four hundred metres around each settlement within which Palestinians can not enter . In addition , there are other large areas that would have been taken or earmarked to be used exclusively by Israel , roadways that connect the settlements to another and to Jerusalem , and life arteries that provide the settlers with water , sewage , electricity , and communications . These range in width from five hundred to four thousand metres , and Palestinians can not use or cross many of these connecting links . This honeycomb of settlements and their interconnecting conduits effectively divide the West Bank into at least two non-contiguous areas and multiple fragments , often uninhabitable or even unreachable , and control of the Jordan River valley denies Palestinians any direct access eastward into Jordan . About one hundred military checkpoints completely surround Palestine and block routes going into or between Palestinian communities , combined with an uncountable number of other roads that are permanently closed with large concrete cubes or mounds of earth and rocks . <p> Carter remarks , There was no possibility that any Palestinian leader could accept such terms and survive , but official statements from Washington and Jerusalem were successful in placing the entire onus for the failure on Yasser Arafat . Violence in the Holy Land continued . <p> David Ben Gurion , Israel 's first Prime Minister . " They Arabs only see one thing . We have come here and stolen their country . Why should they accept that ? " he said. -THE HINDU PHOTO LIBRARY <p> Israels withdrawal from Gaza was accompanied by building a huge wall in populated areas and an impassable fence in rural areas , entirely within the occupied territory . It cuts directly through Palestinian villages , divides families from their gardens and farmland , and includes 375,000 Palestinians on the Israeli side of the wall , 175,000 of whom are outside Jerusalem . A wide swath must be bulldozed through communities before the wall can be built . In addition to the concrete and electrified fencing materials used in the construction , the barrier includes two-metre-deep trenches , roads for patrol vehicles , electronic ground and fence sensors , thermal imaging and video cameras , sniper towers , and razor wire all on Palestinian land . The area between the segregation barrier and the Israeli border has been designated a closed military region . Every Palestinian over the age of twelve living in the closed area has to obtain a permanent resident permit from the civil administration to enable him to continue to live in his own home . They are considered to be aliens , without the rights of Israeli citizens . This is apartheid . Two thousand Palestinian Christians lost their places of worship . Three convents were cut off from the people they served . <p> Israel carried this policy to Lebanon as Carter records . The Unity Government that was set up on July 11 reflects the reality that Hezbollah is a power . It has translated its military prowess into political achievement . How long can the precarious balance between the pro-Western forces and the rest , backed by Syria and Iran , last ? Prime Minister Fouad Siniora is pro-U.S . One of his and the U.S. allies is Samir Geagea who was sentenced to death for crimes committed during the civil war and later pardoned . He runs the Lebanese Forces , a party with roots in the militia he headed . He was welcomed by Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice in Washington last March . <p> Sandra Mackeys book traces the background in a lively style . Lebanon reflects a deep cultural divide which Israel and the U.S. have widened . The authors lucid narrative ends with an Afterword that is most stimulating . The profile of Lebanon described in the preceding pages has provided Westerners a look inside the Arab world . Its purpose is not to make the reader a voyeur in the tangled lives of Arabs . Rather it is intended as a journey of insight into another people and another culture at a time when the tide of history is washing away aged sea walls , forcing the West and the Arab East into a lifeboat together . The interests of both demand keeping that boat afloat . And keeping it afloat means reaching cultural accommodation . <p> That can begin only when Israelis acknowledge the wrongs done to Palestinians . Benny Morris , one of their foremost historians , attempts to do that but is overcome by nationalism . He had no hesitation in asserting in 2004 that there are circumstances in history which justify ethnic cleansing . <p> His study of the 1948 war reflects , both , the industry of a scholar and the ardour of a nationalist . His remarks drew from Adib S. Kawar , an angry denunciation that Benny Morris , the so-called leftist , had unmasked himself , his left and Zionism . <p> The book draws on arch rival material . Predictably , it is one-sided . He is no peer of Ilan Pappe . His resume in the introductory chapter Staking Claims makes out a case for establishing a Jewish state on Arab territory . The war of 1948 was inevitable , given the Arabs opposition to the usurpation of their lands and their country . <p> Israels first Prime Minister David Ben Gurion was more honest . He told his colleagues against the backdrop of the Arab Revolt of 1936-1939 : We must see the situation for what it is . On the security front , we are those attacked and who are on the defensive . But in the political field we are the attackers and the Arabs are those defending themselves . They are living in the country and own the land , the village . We live in the Diaspora and want only to immigrate ( to Palestine ) and gain possession of ( lirkosh ) the land from them . <p> Years later , after the establishment of Israel , he expatiated on the Arab perspective in a conversation with the Zionist leader Nahum Goldmann : I do nt understand your optimism . Why should the Arabs make peace ? If I was an Arab leader I would never make terms with Israel . That is natural . We have taken their country . Sure , God promised it to us , but what does that matter to them ? Our God is not theirs . We come from Israel , Its true , but two thousand years ago , and what is that to them ? There has been anti-Semitism , the Nazis , Hitler , Auschwitz , but was that their fault ? They only see one thing . We have come here and stolen their country . Why should they accept that ? ( Benny Morris ; page 393 . ) <p> Benny Morris takes malicious pleasure in ridiculing Arab leaders of the times . They deserve it . They were corrupt and , in the case of Jordan , complicit . The war of 1948 was a humiliating experience . But where does Israels victory leave it today ? The dimensions of the success had given birth to reflective Arab non-acceptance and powerful revanchist urges . The Jewish state had arisen at the heart of the Muslim Arab World and that world could not abide it . Peace treaties may eventually have been signed by Egypt and Jordan , but the Arab world the man in the street , the intellectual in his perch , the soldier in his dugout refused to recognise or accept what had come to pass . It was a cosmic injustice . And there would be plenty of Arabs , by habit accustomed to think in the long term and egged on by the ever-aggrieved Palestinians , who would never acquiesce in the new Middle Eastern order . Whether 1948 was a passing fancy or has permanently etched the region remains to be seen . Indeed six decades can not legitimise a crime . <p> No American government can help , as James Carroll points out . How could the United States advance the Israeli-Palestinian peace process if its government upholds , however implicitly , the Christian Zionist dream of a God-sponsored Jewish State from the Jordan River to the Mediterranean ? Where is the two-state solution then ? How , for that matter , is the traditional American commitment to the Jewishness of Israel advanced if the Christian Zionist vision of ultimate Jewish conversion to Jesus is achieved ? ( International Herald Tribune , January 22 , 2008 . ) <p> Change can be brought about by one of the three forces at work Israels public opinion ; Hamas resistance and that of the Hezbollah in Lebanon ; and radical change in the major Arab states . 
@@31528603 <h> " Every year I pray they will give me a permit so I can celebrate Christmas and see my family . " <p> PALESTINIAN GIRL scouts pose for a photo in front of a Christmas tree outside the Holy Family Church in Gaza City . <p> ( photo credit : REUTERS ) <p> Since it 's Christmas and an occasion for good cheer , I 'll deliver the good news first . Here 's how The Jerusalem Post announced it : <p> " Christians in the Gaza Strip will be allowed to visit holy cities such as Bethlehem and Jerusalem at Christmas , " Israel authorities said on Sunday , reversing a decision not to issue them permits . <p> " In a break from its usual Christmas holiday policy , Israel 's military liaison to the Palestinians said on December 12 that in accordance with ' security orders , ' Gaza Christians would be allowed to travel abroad , but none would be permitted to go to Israel or the West Bank ... On Sunday , the liaison office , known as COGAT , announced on Twitter that its director has ' extended the travel facilitations for the Christian population of Gaza for the Christmas holiday . ' " <p> Thus ended Israel 's 2019 travel ban on Christmas visits from Gaza to Israel and the West Bank , which seemed oddly arbitrary and was never fully explained . <p> The ban came as a hurtful shock to Gaza 's tiny Christian community . Out of some 3,000 Christians who lived in Gaza in 2007 when Hamas seized power from the Palestinian Authority , it is estimated that no more than 700-800 remain , among a total population of some 1.8 million Muslims . Unsurprisingly , the Christian population continues to dwindle . <p> Today 's Gazan Christians , most of whom live in Gaza City , look forward all year to the chance to escape for a few days from the ever-watchful eye of radical Muslims . While breathing the freer air outside the Gaza Strip , they are able to enjoy the company of friends and loved ones who are close in proximity but physically unreachable during most of the year . <p> " Every year I pray they will give me a permit so I can celebrate Christmas and see my family , " Randa El-Amash , 50 , told Reuters . " It will be more joyful to celebrate in Bethlehem and in Jerusalem . " <p> Thankfully , Randa 's family will be able to welcome her once again to the birthplace of Jesus , where the Christmas story began . <p> Along with Israel 's mind-change , another piece of good news was n't so widely reported . After the ban was announced , an intense and frantic campaign to dissuade Jerusalem about its Grinch-like prohibition of Christmas celebrations was informally launched . It emanated from an amazingly diverse group of petitioners : American Jewish leadership , Christian Evangelicals , international governments , think tanks , the Roman Catholic Church , Twitter protesters and venerable Middle East churches . Such mutual agreement on the issue -- and Israel 's positive response -- are noteworthy . <p> One of the outspoken voices in support of Gaza 's Christians was Nina Shea , my colleague at the Hudson Institute 's Center for Religious Freedom . She summed up the general reaction to the ban : <p> " Israel maintains that its government protects access for all religious groups to the religious sites that are under its control . In keeping with this , it is incumbent that it provide permits to all Gaza 's Christians to visit Christian holy sites in Jerusalem and the West Bank , especially during the great feast of Christmas , one of Christianity 's holiest celebrations . These Christians pose no terror threat , as Israel fully acknowledges by giving permits to travel abroad at this time . " <p> Thanks to myriad prayers and protests , the Israeli Christmas-ban story had a happy ending . Families and friends will be reunited , feasting will abound , and Christmas hymns will resound in Bethlehem , Jerusalem and beyond . <p> THAT 'S THE good news . <p> The bad news is that the continuous injustices and provocations faced by Gaza 's Christians carry on day in and day out during the rest of the year . It 's no wonder they want to flee the scrutiny of Hamas and other radical Islamists . <p> I spoke with my Gazan Christian friend Khalil Sayegh about what life is like for Christians in Gaza . <p> " Like all Palestinians in Gaza , " he began , " the Christians are suffering from the current situation in Hamas-controlled Gaza . They struggle with unemployment , lack of freedom of travel . They can not hold government jobs . But , in addition to that , the Christians of Gaza are facing religious discrimination in various ways . Christians in Gaza have to tolerate being harassed in the streets just for being Christians . Their school children have to listen to all kinds of bad things about Christians in their classrooms , because Hamas controls their education , teachers and schools . <p> " And while Hamas claims to protect Christians , its presence in Gaza has empowered Islamist radicals who harass Christians and even physically attack them in some instances . Violence occurred a few years ago , when a Salafist jihadist murdered Rami Ayyad , a Christian bookstore manager who was shot and stabbed to death in 2007 . And since then there have been several attempts to bomb Gazan churches . " <p> Khalid went on to say that even secular Gazans ca n't work in the government . A man who wears a cross will be harassed . And in some parts of Gaza it is unsafe for women not to cover themselves and wear a hijab . <p> I asked Khalil if there are any Christmas decorations in Gaza . He explained that a YMCA facility is decorated , but only inside the building . Otherwise there 's no sign of holiday festivity in the streets . He recalled a Muslim merchant who donned a Santa hat one year , trying to inspire a little holiday spending . Angry authorities confronted the shopkeeper and demanded that he take off the Santa hat immediately . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31532300 <h> Highest number of IAF peacetime operations took place in 2019 <h> A senior officer in the IAF told The Jerusalem Post that 2019 was the busiest year for an air force in peacetime . <p> 200TH UAV SQUADRON Commander Lt.-Col. Y looks at a map of the Middle East in his office . <p> ( photo credit : ANNA AHRONHEIM ) <p> Facing multiple enemies on multiple fronts , it 's been a very active year for the Israel Air Force , from the North to South and beyond , both offensive and defensive . <p> A senior officer in the IAF told The Jerusalem Post that 2019 was the busiest year for an air force in peacetime . <p> " This year saw the most operations by the air force since the founding of the State of Israel , " said Lt.-Col. R , the commander of the IAF 's 253 Negev Squadron , during a recent interview at Ramon Airbase in southern Israel . <p> Flying F-16s , ground crews and pilots in Lt.-Col. R 's squadron have been working 24/7 and acting on all fronts , carrying out precise and successful missions against Israel 's enemies . <p> Tensions with the Hamas-run Gaza Strip continue to pose a threat to Israel , with several rounds of violent conflict breaking out more than a dozen times over the last year and close to 2,000 rockets fired from the blockaded coastal enclave . <p> In response to the rocket fire , the IDF has struck over 1,000 targets in the Strip over the past year , the large majority of them belonging to Hamas . <p> Along the northern border , which according to IDF Chief of Staff Lt.-Gen . Aviv Kochavi is the central strategic challenge facing the State of Israel , the military is facing an overt conflict with the Islamic Republic which continues to entrench itself in Syria . <p> Iran has for years been trying to establish a 1,200-km. ( 745-mile ) long land bridge from Tehran to the Mediterranean , a major concern for Israel which since 2013 has been carrying out a " war-between-wars " campaign aimed at preventing Iran from reaching its goal . <p> Israeli officials have warned that Iran is also attempting to entrench itself in Iraq , a mainly Shia country , as it did in Syria , where it has established and consolidated a parallel security structure . Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in August hinted at Israel 's role in several strikes in the country saying , " Iran has no immunity , anywhere . " <p> That conflict is " unprecedented , " Lt.-Col. R said , adding " We are living in an era which will one day be named . It started with the Arab Spring and never really ended . " <p> According to Lt.-Col. R , " The dynamics of the Middle East have an impact on our squadron which has to be ready to go from zero to 100 in seconds . <p> " The Middle East has many challenges which the air force is able to answer , " he explained . " The reason why we do n't have enemy jets in our airspace is because we have great defensive capabilities and many of our operations are offensive . <p> " A good way to bring peace is strength , " Lt.-Col. R said , adding nevertheless that he ca n't look down on Israel 's enemies . <p> " Our enemies are also learning and so we have to keep learning from the moment we land . " <p> And while the air force is at its peak , Lt.-Col. R warned that next year wo n't be any different . <p> But it 's not only the pilots who are busy ; troops in the air defense division have been working just as hard protecting Israeli skies . <p> According to Maj. Nir Talias , commander of 947 Iron Dome Battalion , the past year has been challenging for the soldiers and reservists who had to deal with " a high number of challenges " posed by threats both in Gaza and in the North . <p> " We are only part of Israel 's defense systems which protects the home front to allow citizens to have a normal life , even under fire , " Talias said . <p> MORE THAN 1,500 rockets and mortars have been fired toward Israel over the past year from the Hamas-run Gaza Strip , and over two dozen fired from Syria , a significant increase in the past four years . <p> According to numbers released by Israel 's Shin Bet security service , more than 2,600 rockets and mortars have been fired over the past two years from Gaza ; over half of those in the last year alone . The majority of the rockets and mortars fired into southern Israel over the past year were launched during three violent rounds of conflict with the Strip . <p> Talias 's troops are on alert 24/7 to confront terror groups and Shi'ite militias " which are trying to challenge our sovereignty and carry out terror attacks , especially rockets , " he said , adding , " It 's no secret that there are challenges . We understand the threat and what the other side wants to do , and while there are always surprises , we always learn from every cycle . <p> " We are always trying to be three steps ahead of our enemy , so every cycle of violence -- be it in the South or North -- we will be better and stronger . " <p> Israel has a comprehensive protective umbrella able to counter the growing missile threats from its enemies , and continuously improves the technology behind the country 's anti-missile systems . <p> These include the Iron Dome , designed to shoot down short-range rockets ; the Arrow ( Arrow-2 and Arrow-3 ) system which intercepts ballistic missiles outside of the Earth 's atmosphere ; and the newly operational David 's Sling missile-defense system which is designed to intercept tactical ballistic missiles , medium-to-long-range rockets , as well as cruise missiles fired at ranges from 40-300 km . <p> Israel also has three Patriot system batteries as well as the naval Barak-8ER long-range surface-to-air missile ( LRSAM ) , designed to defend against a myriad of short-to-long-range airborne threats like incoming missiles , planes and drones at both low and high altitudes , and upgraded to have an extended range to protect against cruise missiles . <p> Talias told the Post that 90% of rockets heading toward residential areas have been intercepted by his troops using the Iron Dome system . <p> According to Talias , the ability to identify the projectile and intercept it before it falls is a challenge to troops , but the Iron Dome is able to deal with threats within moments . <p> " Everyone is always trying to challenge us , and we try all the time to make sure that our soldiers make the right decision at the right time , " he said . " It 's of strategic importance . " <p> And Talias does n't see his workload getting lighter in the near future . <p> " Next year we will face the same kind of threats ... we are prepared for war , " he said , explaining that even though " our system is to prevent war by stopping rockets from hitting our citizens , " troops always stay prepared . <p> THE IAF 'S eye in the sky , the 200th UAV Squadron , was just as busy as the 253th Squadron flying the Heron medium-altitude long-endurance ( MALE ) remotely piloted aircraft ( RPAs ) some 13,000 flight hours on all fronts . <p> " It sounds crazy , but I can be in the control station taking part in an operation and within half an hour I can be in a theater watching a movie with my wife , " said Lt.-Col. Y who commands the squadron . <p> He told the Post that his pilots were responsible for 70%-80% of IAF operations over the past year . <p> " We work 24/7 , there 's not one day that we are n't in the air , " he said as he turned on his computer screen to a scene in Gaza . " I can see everything the drone is seeing from my office . You see right there ? That is a Palestinian Islamic Jihad militant who just left his mosque . " <p> And while they are n't manned like the fighter jets in Lt.-Col. R 's squadron , it 's the man or woman on the ground in central Israel who makes the final decision . A growing trend , the drone world presents a constant dilemma of collateral damage while preserving the safety of the mission . <p> " We know it 's not a game , we see the explosions . We make the decisions for the fighter jets to strike or not to when we see there are civilians in the area . " <p> Lt.-Col. Y recounted one operation several months ago where two Gazans were spotted approaching the border fence with Israel , which made the decision to strike them . <p> " The next day when we understood that they were children , my stomach dropped and I saw the face of the team . They were ashen . We understood it 's not a video game . " <p> The Heron , known as Shoval in the IAF , has a 45-hour duration at up to 35,000 ft . With an operational range limited only by fuel availability , the RPAs can take part in missions ( reconnaissance as well as combat and support roles ) over 1,000 km from where they are being operated in central Israel . <p> " There are no borders , the RPA will go wherever it 's needed , " Lt.-Col. Y said , adding that " every year we cross the boundaries of what we can do . " <p> According to Lt.-Col. Y , it 's a new ball game since Iran entered the messy picture of the Middle East . <p> " Our enemies in the North and South are always challenging us . It 's like a chess game and we have to stay humble because they are n't suckers , " he said . " The downing of the American drone in June has shown that taking out drones has entered the equation now . " <p> Pointing to Saudi Arabia , he said it 's not a rare event for state or non-state actors to use drones for attack operations . <p> " The technology is there and we need to be ready . Infantry commanders in militaries are teaching their soldiers to look up for drones , " he said , and he wants to be ready when the target is Israel . <p> " It 's not something you would see from first-grade terrorists or ISIS . These kinds of attacks are by someone smart with a lot of resources and assets , " he said . <p> And like other officers , Lt.-Col. Y does n't see anything changing in the region in the coming year . <p> " There are no quiet borders , " he said . " The Iranians will continue to work to project their power . It 's a very challenging time to be an officer in the military . Israel counts only on itself and we always work to stay strong . " <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31532301 <h> Lt.-Gen . Kochavi acknowledges in public for the first time that Israel has struck Iranian targets in Iraq . <p> IDF Chief of Staff Lt.-Gen . Aviv Kochavi speaks at a conference in honor of former IDF Chief of Staff Lt.-Gen . Amnon Lipkin-Shahak at the IDC Interdisciplinary Center in Herzilya , December 25 , 2019 <p> ( photo credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <p> The IDF is preparing for a limited confrontation with the Islamic Republic as Israel continues to act against Iranian entrenchment , IDF Chief of Staff Lt.-Gen . Aviv Kochavi warned on Wednesday . <p> " There is a possibility that we will face a limited confrontation with Iran and we are preparing for it , " Kochavi said at a conference in honor of former IDF chief of staff Lt.-Gen . Amnon Lipkin-Shahak at the IDC Interdisciplinary Center in Herzilya . <p> " We will continue to act and responsibly , " Israel 's top military officer said , adding it would have been better had Israel not been the only one engaged in the effort to stop Iran . <p> The IDF , he said , is carrying out operations both publicly and below-the-radar to prevent the enemy from obtaining precision missiles , even if those operations bring about a confrontation . <p> " Iraq is undergoing a civil war , when the Quds Force is operating there on a daily basis , when the country itself has turned into an ungoverned area . Advanced weapons are being smuggled by the Quds Force in Iraq on a monthly basis and we ca n't allow that , " he said . <p> According to Kochavi , there 's been a change in threats , with all fronts active in trying to carry out terror or rocket attacks against Israel . <p> " It was n't always like that , " he said , pointing to years of relative quiet from Lebanon and Syria . But over the last few months there were many instances where there were warnings of immediate threats to Israel that the military had to contend with . <p> And while over the years , Iran was not regarded as an immediate threat , it 's transformed into " an enemy that we can see and that we deal with , " Kochavi said , adding Israel 's " ultimate goal is to instill in our enemies the feeling of despair and doubt in their ability to achieve their aggressive aims . " <p> According to the chief of staff , Iran is more active in the Middle East against Gulf states , where they are able to strike " without retaliation , without response , without deterrence . But we do respond . " <p> Iran continues to produce missiles that can reach Israeli territory , Kochavi said , explaining the Iranian military industry is much larger than all the military industries of Israel combined , allowing for them to produce more precise and long-range rockets to threaten the Israeli home front . <p> In addition , Quds forces in Syria as well as Hezbollah have spectrum barriers and advanced anti-aircraft missiles that can threaten Israeli jets , which nonetheless continue to have freedom of operation across the Middle East . <p> According to the chief of staff , while war is a solution to be used after all diplomatic solutions have been exhausted , " in the next war , be it with the north or with Gaza , the intensity of enemy firepower will be great . " <p> " There can be no war without casualties and I can not not guarantee a short war , " he said . " We will need national resilience . " <p> " I 'm looking at everyone in the eye , it will be intense . We have to prepare for that . We have to prepare for that militarily , on the home front , and mentally , " Kochavi warned . <p> And in the next war the IDF will strike urban areas belonging to the enemy intensely after warning civilians to leave . <p> " It 's the enemy that chose that , " he said . " We will strike hard , including the infrastructure of the country that allows the terror group to act against Israel . Know that the responsibility belongs to the government of Lebanon , Syria and Hamas . " <p> Despite the increased number of threats , none of Israel 's enemies want war , due to the IDF willingness to act , Kochavi stated , adding an opportunity has risen in the south with regard to the Gaza Strip , to improve the humanitarian conditions of civilians . <p> " I recognize a unique opportunity in Gaza . There is a strong will not to bring about an escalation of tensions on the part of Hamas and it was Islamic Jihad under the leadership of its now-dead commander Bahaa Abu al-Ata that were responsible for the vast majority of attacks on Israel in the past year . " <p> Hamas , he said , wants to improve the welfare of its citizens and Israel is " in the process of assisting the Egyptians within which we will facilitate civilian relief . This is the policy of the Israeli government and I support it . " <p> But the opportunity is fragile and it can not be forgotten that Hamas is still holding the bodies of fallen IDF soldiers Oron Shaul and Hadar Goldin . <p> " We have to return them home , not just the security concerns of the State of Israel " need to be addressed , he said . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31532601 <h> Copy/paste the article video embed link below : <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu faces his first serious internal challenge at his Likud party 's primaries on Thursday after more than a decade in power . <p> Veteran politician Gideon Saar hopes to unseat Netanyahu , arguing that he will be better placed to form a government in national elections in March after Netanyahu failed to do so twice in repeat elections this year . <p> Saar , who has held various ministerial positions from 2009 to 2014 , is a well-known political figure in Israel , Mitchell Barak , a pollster and political analyst , told Euronews . <p> Yet his chances of winning the primary are slim , the expert said , adding that the key question was whether he would get more than 25% of the votes . <p> Polling stations closed at 11 pm local time on Thursday . Just under fifty percent of 116,000 eligible voters cast ballots , with many apparently deterred by the weather . <h> Netanyahu still favourite <p> Despite the shadow of corruption indictments hanging over him , Netanyahu remains popular among Likud members . <p> Israeli media predicted a Netanyahu landslide . Channel 12 , a major television station , said initial results showed a significant gap between the candidates . <p> But Saar , who has earned support from a handful of Likud backbenchers , could benefit from stormy weather that may keep turnout low . If he wins , he would become Likud 's candidate for prime minister in the March polls . <p> " We are imbued with the spirit of victory , ' ' lawmaker Yoav Kisch , Saar 's campaign manager , told Israeli Army Radio . This candidacy is good for the party and I believe can also bring the change and the hope for a revolution in the Likud . ' ' <p> Netanyahu has portrayed Saar as inexperienced while depicting himself as a security buff and master of international diplomacy . <p> Still , in what was seen as an embarrassment at a critical moment a day before the primary , Netanyahu was rushed off stage at a campaign rally in the southern city of Ashkelon after a rocket was fired from Gaza , setting off an air raid siren . <p> A similar incident happened in September when Netanyahu was in the nearby city of Ashdod campaigning for the second general Israeli election of the year . <h> Corruption charges <p> Netanyahu faces charges of bribery , fraud and breach of trust in three corruption cases in which he is accused of trading legislative or regulatory favours in exchange for lavish gifts or favourable media coverage . He denies wrongdoing and has blamed media and law enforcement officials who he says are bent on ousting him from office . <p> Recent polls show that with Saar as leader , Likud would make a more powerful bloc with its natural ultra-Orthodox and nationalist allies . <p> Saar would also be in an easier position to create a national unity government with the centrist Blue and White party if , as expected , the upcoming March election produces a deadlock like the previous two rounds have . <p> " I think the primary will be good for the Likud ultimately , " Barak told Euronews . <p> For Saar , no matter the outcome , challenging Netanyahu " shows a sense of leadership , " the expert noted . <p> The primaries might also prove to strengthen Netanyahu 's hand going into the next national vote , offering him an opportunity to appear " more determined and motivated than ever , " he added . <p> Euronews is no longer accessible on Internet Explorer . This browser is not updated by Microsoft and does not support the last technical evolutions . We encourage you to use another browser , such as Edge , Safari , Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox. 
@@31538705 <h> The episode received 12.6% of the broadcast viewership on Thursday , breaking records for previous seasons . <p> The first episode of the third season of Fauda , the world-famous series about an Israeli counter-terrorism unit and its Palestinian adversaries , set records for viewership in Israel when it premiered on Thursday night . Including those who watched it when it aired on the YES Action Channel , on YES VOD and on YES 's YouTube channel in the next 48 hours , Fauda 's newest episode got a million views . <p> The episode received 12.6% of the broadcast viewership on Thursday , breaking records for previous seasons . <p> What 's most remarkable about the one million-view figure is that this is for broadcasts of the series in Hebrew and Arabic , with Hebrew subtitles . Viewers who do n't speak Hebrew will have to wait until Netflix releases the third season in 2020 with the appropriate subtitles . <p> Fauda became a huge hit around the world when it was picked up by Netflix and shown with subtitles in multiple languages . <p> The new season of the show , which was created by Lior Raz and Avi Issacharoff and stars Raz , centers on Raz 's character , Doron Kavillio . Counter-terrorism operative Kavillio suffered two tragic losses in the previous season and , as the third season opens , he is operating a boxing gym on the West Bank , undercover . The slow-burn season-three opener seems to be laying the groundwork for the reported shift to Gaza and it ends on cliffhanger , as most episodes of the series do . <p> The show received rave reviews around the world and just last week was named in the eighth spot in The New York Times ' list of the best television shows of the decade ( another Israeli series , Prisoners of War from Keshet , which became the basis for Homeland , occupied the top spot on this list ) . Bestselling author Stephen King praised Fauda as , " All thriller , no filler . " <p> Raz and Issacharoff became unlikely stars , making public appearances all over the world and being interviewed by The New Yorker editor , David Remnick . Celebrities visiting Israel , among them Conan O'Brien , made pilgrimages to the Fauda set . Raz recently appeared in the Netflix movie , 6 Underground , directed by Michael Bay and starring Ryan Reynolds . <p> The show has reportedly become a guilty pleasure among Israeli and West Bank Arabs , some of whom appreciate the many complex Palestinian characters on the show . <p> Meanwhile , Netflix Israel just released its data on the top 10 shows of the year and Fauda is not on that list , probably because most Israelis have seen the original on Yes and YouTube . <p> The top-rated show in Israel was the third season of the suspenseful bank robbery series from Spain , Money Heist . But Israel-related content made it to the second and 10th places on the list . The Spy , the fact-based miniseries starring Sacha Baron Cohen about Israeli spy Eli Cohen was in second place and the movie , The Red Sea Diving Resort , the true story of how Israeli agents pretended to run a diving school to rescue Ethiopian Jews , was in 10th place . Both the series and the movie were created by Gideon Raff , who also made Prisoners of War . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@82541307 <p> The renewed weekly protests came as leaders from Hamas and the smaller but more radical Islamic Jihad were in Cairo , talking with Egyptian mediators about cementing a cease-fire with Israel that is expected to ease Gaza 's 12-year-old blockade . <p> Organizers of the marches kept them restrained Friday , with no burning tires or firebombs , and with only a few protesters approaching the fortified perimeter fence and hurling stones at Israeli troops with slingshots . <p> The health ministry said 14 Palestinians were wounded by Israeli fire , four of them with live gunshots . <p> The militant Hamas group had put the weekly marches on hold since mid-November following a short round of cross-border fighting with Israel . <p> The fighting , the worst in months , was sparked by an Israeli targeted killing of a senior Islamic Jihad commander . Over the past decade , Israel and Hamas have fought three wars and dozens of shorter skirmishes . <p> Hazem Qassem , a Hamas spokesman , said his movement is determined to break the blockade and that the talks in Cairo , which also include bilateral discussions with the Islamic Jihad , were for this purpose . <p> " We wo n't allow this situation to last and we will continue the protests until the siege is broken , " he said in a statement . <p> Unconfirmed reports say Egypt has proposed a five-year truce that will see economic incentives to Gaza to sustain calm . <p> In the West Bank , meanwhile , Israeli forces shot a 22-year-old Palestinian near the city of Hebron . The health ministry said the man was in serious condition after a live bullet hit him in the chest . 
@@82567409 <h> The prime minister also said that if direct elections for PM are initiated , he will win . <p> The issue of annexing the Jordan Valley was indeed raised with US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo during their meeting last week in Lisbon , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said on Sunday , though a formal plan was not presented . <p> Netanyahu 's comments at a conference sponsored by the Makor Rishon newspaper followed denials issued by senior State Department official David Schenker that a plan had been presented to Pompeo . <p> As a result of Schenker 's comments , reports in both the traditional and social media emerged hinting that Netanyahu was being less than honest -- and engaging in campaign " spin " -- when he told reporters in Lisbon that " we discussed the issue of annexation , but we 're not talking about timetables yet . " <p> Just as he wanted formal US recognition for Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights , " I want US recognition for our sovereignty over the Jordan Valley , " Netanyahu said at the conference . <p> " It was said that the issue was not raised at the Pompeo meeting . The issue was raised , " Netanyahu said . " No , they did n't say it was not raised , they said that a formal plan was not discussed . Right , that was not yet raised . But the issue was raised . " <p> Netanyahu said he intends on raising this with the Trump administration . " I think the time has come to extend Israeli sovereignty over the Jordan Valley , and also arrange the status of all the settlements in Judea and Samaria , those inside the settlement blocs , and those that are not in the blocs . They will be part of the State of Israel . " <p> In a speech aimed at shoring up support among the settlement Right at a time when a few settlement leaders have thrown their support to Netanyahu 's Likud rival Gideon Sa'ar , Netanyahu said he was uniquely positioned to get US recognition of Israeli sovereignty over the Jordan Valley , as well as to negotiate a security pact between Israel and the US that would ensure Israel 's freedom of action . <p> " A lot of alliances and relationships that did n't even exist and could n't even be imagined " have been formed under his leadership , he told the conference , adding that it was now time to sign a defense pact with the US . <p> " I can achieve a historic defense alliance with the United States , and that 's what I 'm going to do , please God , in the coming months , " he said . <p> He also said he has proven an ability to deflect pressure to withdraw from Judea and Samaria by being able to have an impact on the " most important power in the United States , " which he said was public opinion . <p> " The US public knows me , and therefore I turned to it -- time after time -- about our rights , the justice of our cause , our homeland , our struggle . And when you are able to move significant public opinion in the United States , you can move the United States entirely . And if you ca n't move public opinion , you ca n't really lead the State of Israel . And that is the difference . " <p> On other issues , Netanyahu said that Israel , if needed , would engage in a large-scale operation in the Gaza Strip . He said there will be no permanent ceasefire in the region unless the rockets stop . <p> His comments came the morning after the Israel Air Force struck Hamas targets in response to rocket fire toward Israel . <p> Additionally , the prime minister said that if it comes down to a third election , he will win " by far , " and that Blue and White is " not budging by even a millimeter " in the coalition negotiations . <p> " Today I say to Gantz : come and build a unity government with me , " Netanyahu said . " And if not , then let the country decide who they want by holding direct elections for prime minister . Let the nation decide who will be prime minister . At least those elections will be fast and not drawn out and costly . " <p> Following the conference , Netanyahu convened the weekly cabinet meeting and said the killing of 20 Iraqi protesters in Baghdad on Saturday seems to have been carried out by Iraqi Shi'ite militias . <p> " There is a growing number of signs that point to the murderous attack in Baghdad as having been carried out by the Iraqi Shi'ite militias , directly under the guidance of the Iranian Revolutionary Guards , " he said . <p> " At this time , facing this murder , we must increase pressure on Iran , " Netanyahu said . " This is what I call on European countries to do . I wish to clarify , with or without the European countries , Israel will not allow Iran to develop nuclear weapons under any circumstances . " <p> Blue and White leader Benny Gantz attacked Netanyahu on the Jordan Valley issue in his speech at the Makor Rishon Conference in Jerusalem , and received applause from the right-wing crowd at the event . <p> " Netanyahu has put so much into talking about the Jordan Valley that he 's forgotten that action is also required , " Gantz said mockingly . " Before all the talk about annexation , we need to be thinking about development . We are not about talk , we 're about action . We 'll deal with infrastructure , roads , agriculture . We 've already determined that the Jordan Valley is the protective barrier for Israel 's eastern border , and it will stay that way . That is a strategic security question -- not just a campaign promise . " <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@82611504 <p> WASHINGTON , Dec 10 ( Reuters ) - U.S. President Donald Trump plans to sign an executive order on Wednesday threatening to cut federal assistance to colleges that fail to combat anti-Semitism , a senior administration official said on Tuesday . <p> The order would extend protections against discrimination under the 1964 Civil Rights Act to people subjected to anti-Semitism on college campuses , the official said . <p> The order " just explains if an incident is anti-Semitic it could fall into a Title 6 violation , " the official said , referring to Title 6 of the law which prohibits discrimination on the basis of race , color , and national origin in programs and activities receiving federal financial assistance . <p> " Just because someone is Jewish does n't mean they should be punished and not receive the same protections for discrimination under Title 6 , " the official said . <p> The Anti-Defamation League , which tracks acts of racism , said it recorded 201 anti-Semitic incidents at colleges and universities in 2018 , down from 204 in the previous year . <p> Trump 's plan to sign the order was first reported by the New York Times . The Republican president has been a staunch supporter of Israel . <p> The pro-Palestinian Boycott , Divestment , and Sanctions ( BDS ) movement over Israel 's policies toward Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza Strip has gained support among some university students in recent years . <p> The movement , however , has received a bipartisan rebuke in the U.S. Congress and many states have passed anti-BDS measures . <p> Some critics argue that participating in boycotts is protected by Americans ' constitutional right to free speech and that legitimate criticism of Israeli policies could be stifled under the name of combating anti-Semitism . ( Reporting by Steve Holland ; Editing by Stephen Coates ) <p> Our global editorial team of more than 50 journalists and about 250 freelancers covers the world 's under-reported stories at the heart of aid , development , women 's and LGBT+ rights , human trafficking , property rights , and climate change . 
@@82704008 <h> Security Officials Concerned Over Lack of Government <p> Palestinian protesters take part in clashes with Israeli security forces near the border between Israel and eastern Gaza city . ( Abed Rahim Khatib/Flash90/File ) <p> With just an interim government in effect at the moment , and no prospect of one until at least March , security officials are concerned that major issues that need to be dealt with will remain unattended . Among them are what to do about Iran , how to respond to ongoing rocket fire from Gaza , necessary acquisitions of weapons , and more . <p> Walla News cited a major rift among security officials , with the IDF and Defense Ministry advocating benefits for Gaza to encourage Hamas to enter into a long-term ceasefire deal with Israel that would end the ongoing rocket fire . <p> The Shin Bet is opposed to the plan , which would entail the construction of industrial zones in the Gaza border area that would provide jobs to Gazans -- inside Israel , with the Shin Bet opposed to allowing more Gazans into Israel . <p> But instead of advocating for the arrangement , there is concern in the IDF that the government will find itself paralyzed on the issue of a deal with Gaza . With a tough election campaign in the offing , the concern is that the government will attempt to punish Hamas every time Gaza terrorists fire rockets or dispatch incendiary balloons , thus aggravating the security situation and preventing the advancement of negotiations . <p> Hamas has claimed that recent rocket fire has been the fault of rogue elements in Islamic Jihad , and that the terror group is not interested in escalating violence with Israel . <p> On Friday , barely 2,000 Arabs showed up for a demonstration on the Gaza border fence Friday . Arabs rioted and threw rocks and firebombs at IDF soldiers , who responded with antiriot measures . Several hundred of the rioters tried to storm the border fence , throwing firebombs at an IDF jeep that was patrolling the fence . The rioters were driven back , and there was no damage to the jeep . No Israelis were injured in the riots . Gaza sources said five rioters were injured . <p> Hamas last week had promised that the riots at the Gaza border fence Friday would be especially violent , after IDF soldiers arrested five top Hamas terrorists on Wednesday . " Israel has shown that it keeps attempting to interfere in internal Palestinian affairs " by arresting Hamas terrorists , the group said in a statement . <p> " These arrests and persecution of our members will not deter us from our fight against the occupation , " it said . The arrests came in advance of Hamas ' 32nd anniversary , which takes place this week . IDF officials said that the arrests were designed to prevent excessive rioting and to prevent terror attacks that the group might try to carry out . 
@@82729407 <p> Here 's the latest for Monday December 30th : U.S. announces military strikes in Iraq and Syria ; North Korea 's Kim Jong Un calls for unspecified offensive ; Police : Armed parishioners kill Texas church gunman ; New York stabbing suspect pleads not guilty . <p> A man accused of attacking a Hannukah celebration in New York state pleaded not guilty to five counts of attempted murder and one count of burglary . Grafton E. Thomas was arrested within two hours of the attack . ( Dec. 30 ) <p> Japan has revised a roadmap for the tsunami-wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant cleanup , further delaying the removal of thousands of spent fuel units that remain in cooling pools since the 2011 disaster . ( Dec. 27 ) <p> Israel 's prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu was rushed off the stage of an election rally on Wednesday after sirens rang out , warning of a rocket attack from the Gaza Strip . Authorities confirmed that a defensive missile intercepted the rocket . ( Dec. 26 ) <p> Three adults were killed in an apparent murder-suicide on Christmas Eve while four young children were inside the home , authorities in Lakeland , Florida said . The children were safely removed from the home . ( Dec. 25 ) 
@@82732104 <h> This is the third time the second floor of the building has been demolished by the municipality as the city government continues to deny the family a building permit . <p> Jerusalem municipality employees demolished the second floor of a house in the east Jerusalem neighborhood of Isawiya and three businesses in the neighborhood of Beit Hanina on Tuesday morning , according to B'Tselem . <p> The employees , accompanied by Border Police officers and two bulldozers , demolished an unoccupied apartment on the second floor of a two-story building in Isawiya . A family of four and a family of three live on the ground floor of the building . Damage was caused to the roof of the ground floor during the demolition and it is currently unclear if the building is fit for residency . <p> The second floor was intended for housing one of the families who live in the crowded space on the ground floor and was designed to be accessible for the father of the family who is confined to a wheelchair . The family 's house has already been demolished in the past . <p> According to the Palestinian WAFA news agency , the second floor of the house was demolished because it was built without a permit . Raed Abu Riyala , a member of the Isawiya Follow-Up Committee , told WAFA that Israelis sealed off the area around the house before demolishing the second floor and that this is the third time the second floor of the building has been demolished by the municipality as the city government continues to deny the family a building permit . <p> Isawiya is located adjacent to Hebrew University of Jerusalem 's Mount Scopus campus and Hadassah-University Medical Center that is home to an estimated 22,000 Palestinians . The neighborhood is often referred to by its local activists as " The little Gaza " and " The Lions ' Den " because of frequent clashes between youths and police forces . <p> Later on Tuesday morning , municipality employees , along with Border Police officers and a bulldozer , demolished three business in the Beit Hanina neighborhood that were located on a shared plot of land . The businesses included a car dealership and two car wash businesses . One of the car washes had already been demolished in the past . Security forces also confiscated a container used by one of the car washes . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@82745605 <p> The equipment , which was donated by Qatar , includes several SUVs fitted with water pumps . Gaza 's Civil Defense previously had just 33 vehicles to serve the territory 's 2 million people , including a single fire truck with a hydraulic platform . <p> Israel and Egypt have blockaded Gaza since the Islamic militant group Hamas seized power from rival Palestinian forces in 2007 . <p> Raed al-Dahshan , a spokesman for Gaza 's Civil Defense , said Tuesday 's shipment was " unprecedented . " <p> The Civil Defense said no firefighting equipment has been allowed into Gaza since 2007 , and the last shipment of fire trucks was brought in by the Western-backed Palestinian Authority in 1998 . <p> The blockade , which restricts imports and exports , has devastated Gaza 's economy and caused the unemployment rate to skyrocket to over 50% . <p> Israel says the closure is needed to prevent Hamas from arming . But fearing a humanitarian disaster that could spill over into violence , Israel has begun to soften its line . <p> The wealthy Gulf Arab state of Qatar , a key donor , has become an unlikely partner in Israel 's quest . Qatar has provided aid and led development projects in recent years to support efforts to preserve calm . 
@@82749300 <h> Top Story <p> Laurel ( Dafna Krieger ) Ronis , beloved daughter of Joan Terr and Leonard Ronis , sister of Robert and Lauryn , aunt of Sarah , Jenny and Anna , granddaughter to Max and Lillian Ronis and to Joseph and Fanny Terr , died peacefully at her home in Beachwood from complications of breast cancer on Dec .... <p> Twenty rescue and firefighting vehicles donated by Qatar were admitted into Gaza in coordination with Israel on Tuesday , according to Gaza officials . <p> Included in the shipment were multiple SUVs fitted with water pumps , to bolster the region 's emergency vehicle fleet , which had previously consisted of just 33 vehicles , including a single fire truck with a hydraulic platform . <p> Gaza Civil Defense spokesman Raed al-Dahshan called the acquisition " unprecedented , " noting that no new firefighting equipment had been allowed into Gaza since 2007 , when Hamas took control of the region . <p> Also on Tuesday , the Israeli military said in a statement that Israeli forces had identified and neutralized a Gazan man creeping toward the border fence armed with what appeared to be an assault rifle . 
@@82749607 <p> Here 's the latest for Monday December 30th : U.S. announces military strikes in Iraq and Syria ; North Korea 's Kim Jong Un calls for unspecified offensive ; Police : Armed parishioners kill Texas church gunman ; New York stabbing suspect pleads not guilty . <p> A man accused of attacking a Hannukah celebration in New York state pleaded not guilty to five counts of attempted murder and one count of burglary . Grafton E. Thomas was arrested within two hours of the attack . ( Dec. 30 ) <p> Japan has revised a roadmap for the tsunami-wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant cleanup , further delaying the removal of thousands of spent fuel units that remain in cooling pools since the 2011 disaster . ( Dec. 27 ) <p> Israel 's prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu was rushed off the stage of an election rally on Wednesday after sirens rang out , warning of a rocket attack from the Gaza Strip . Authorities confirmed that a defensive missile intercepted the rocket . ( Dec. 26 ) <p> Three adults were killed in an apparent murder-suicide on Christmas Eve while four young children were inside the home , authorities in Lakeland , Florida said . The children were safely removed from the home . ( Dec. 25 ) 
@@82776208 <p> A man accused of attacking a Hannukah celebration in New York state pleaded not guilty to five counts of attempted murder and one count of burglary . Grafton E. Thomas was arrested within two hours of the attack . ( Dec. 30 ) <p> An Iranian-backed militia says the death toll from U.S. military strikes in Iraq and Syria against its fighters had risen to 25 , and vowed to exact revenge . The Associated Press viewed the aftermath of airstrikes in western Iraq . ( Dec. 30 ) <p> Japan has revised a roadmap for the tsunami-wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant cleanup , further delaying the removal of thousands of spent fuel units that remain in cooling pools since the 2011 disaster . ( Dec. 27 ) <p> Israel 's prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu was rushed off the stage of an election rally on Wednesday after sirens rang out , warning of a rocket attack from the Gaza Strip . Authorities confirmed that a defensive missile intercepted the rocket . ( Dec. 26 ) <p> Three adults were killed in an apparent murder-suicide on Christmas Eve while four young children were inside the home , authorities in Lakeland , Florida said . The children were safely removed from the home . ( Dec. 25 ) 
@@82831810 <h> Israel reverses ban , Gaza Christians can visit Christmas sites <p> 2 Min Read <p> JERUSALEM ( Reuters ) - Christians in the Gaza Strip will be allowed to visit holy cities such as Bethlehem and Jerusalem at Christmas , Israel authorities said on Sunday , reversing a decision not to issue them permits . <p> Israel tightly restricts movements out of the Gaza Strip , territory controlled by Hamas , an Islamist group that it considers a terrorist organization . <p> In a break from its usual Christmas holiday policy , Israel 's military liaison to the Palestinians said on Dec. 12 that in accordance with " security orders " Gaza Christians would be allowed to travel abroad but none would be permitted to go Israel or the occupied West Bank . <p> On Sunday , the liaison office , known as COGAT , announced on Twitter that its director has " extended the travel facilitations for the Christian population of Gaza for the Christmas holiday " . <p> As a result , COGAT said , " entry permits for Jerusalem and for the West Bank will be issued in accordance with security assessments and without regard to age . " <p> Gaza has only around 1,000 Christians , most of them Greek Orthodox , in a population of 2 million in the narrow coastal strip . <p> Last year , Israel granted permits for close to 700 Gaza Christians to travel to Jerusalem , Bethlehem , Nazareth and other holy cities that draw thousands of pilgrims each holiday season . <p> Christian leaders in Jerusalem had condemned the initial entry ban and said they would appeal to Israeli authorities to lift it . 
@@82875909 <p> A man accused of attacking a Hannukah celebration in New York state pleaded not guilty to five counts of attempted murder and one count of burglary . Grafton E. Thomas was arrested within two hours of the attack . ( Dec. 30 ) <p> An Iranian-backed militia says the death toll from U.S. military strikes in Iraq and Syria against its fighters had risen to 25 , and vowed to exact revenge . The Associated Press viewed the aftermath of airstrikes in western Iraq . ( Dec. 30 ) <p> Japan has revised a roadmap for the tsunami-wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant cleanup , further delaying the removal of thousands of spent fuel units that remain in cooling pools since the 2011 disaster . ( Dec. 27 ) <p> Israel 's prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu was rushed off the stage of an election rally on Wednesday after sirens rang out , warning of a rocket attack from the Gaza Strip . Authorities confirmed that a defensive missile intercepted the rocket . ( Dec. 26 ) <p> Three adults were killed in an apparent murder-suicide on Christmas Eve while four young children were inside the home , authorities in Lakeland , Florida said . The children were safely removed from the home . ( Dec. 25 ) 
@@82875910 <p> A man accused of attacking a Hannukah celebration in New York state pleaded not guilty to five counts of attempted murder and one count of burglary . Grafton E. Thomas was arrested within two hours of the attack . ( Dec. 30 ) <p> An Iranian-backed militia says the death toll from U.S. military strikes in Iraq and Syria against its fighters had risen to 25 , and vowed to exact revenge . The Associated Press viewed the aftermath of airstrikes in western Iraq . ( Dec. 30 ) <p> Japan has revised a roadmap for the tsunami-wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant cleanup , further delaying the removal of thousands of spent fuel units that remain in cooling pools since the 2011 disaster . ( Dec. 27 ) <p> Israel 's prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu was rushed off the stage of an election rally on Wednesday after sirens rang out , warning of a rocket attack from the Gaza Strip . Authorities confirmed that a defensive missile intercepted the rocket . ( Dec. 26 ) <p> Three adults were killed in an apparent murder-suicide on Christmas Eve while four young children were inside the home , authorities in Lakeland , Florida said . The children were safely removed from the home . ( Dec. 25 ) 
@@82877210 <p> JERUSALEM ( AP ) -- Israel said a rocket was fired from the Gaza Strip into its southern territory Wednesday , forcing Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to be hustled from a stage during an election rally in the city of Ashkelon . <p> The Israeli military said its air defense system , known as Iron Dome , intercepted the rocket . There were no reports of casualties . <p> The Israeli newspaper Haaretz posted a video on its website showing Netanyahu being taken to a shelter as he was campaigning hours before the primaries of his Likud party . The video showed Netanyahu and his wife slowly walking off the stage with security guards after sirens went off . <p> Early Thursday , Israeli fighter jets and helicopters carried out multiple strikes at three military bases for Hamas , the Islamic movement that rules Gaza , according to witnesses in Gaza . No casualties were reported as the sites have been empty . <p> There was no immediate comment from Israel 's military . <p> Netanyahu says he knows how to protect Israel , but opponents accuse him of being soft on handling threats from Gaza . <p> Gideon Saar , Netanyahu 's challenger in Thursday elections , called in a Twitter statement for a " broad national consensus for dismantling the military infrastructure " of Palestinian militant groups Hamas and Islamic Jihad . <p> A similar incident happened in September when Netanyahu was in the nearby city of Ashdod . He was campaigning then for the second general Israeli election of the year . That was believed to have triggered Israel 's targeted killing of a senior commander in the Islamic Jihad in November . Israel and Gaza militants had their worst round of fighting in months as a result . <p> No Palestinian group claimed responsibility for Wednesday 's attack . Such sporadic launches of rockets and ensuing Israeli airstrikes have happened frequently despite an Egyptian-brokered cease-fire that ended two days of fighting in November . <p> Hamas seeks " understandings " with Israel to alleviate Gaza 's economic and humanitarian crises . The militant group stayed on the sidelines during the November flare-up . 
@@82878110 <p> The Israeli Defense Forces confirmed on Twitter the rocket fired from Gaza was intercepted mid-air by the Iron Dome . <p> " On Hanukkah , the festival of miracles , Israel 's modern miracle -- the Iron Dome -- just intercepted a rocket mid-air after it was fired from #Gaza at Israeli civilians , " the army tweeted Wednesday , on the fourth night of Hanukkah . <p> On Hanukkah , the festival of miracles , Israel 's modern miracle -- the Iron Dome -- just intercepted a rocket mid-air after it was fired from #Gaza at Israeli civilians . **26;546;TOOLONG <p> Netanyahu and his wife Sara were escorted to a nearby shelter in the middle of the prime minister 's address at an event in Ashkelon , Haaretz reported . <p> Netanyahu later returned to continue his speech , according to the Israeli newspaper . <p> He reportedly addressed the Israeli military 's assassination of senior Islamic Jihad commander Bahu Abu al-Ata last month . The assassination led to a round of fire between Israel and Gaza , according to Haaretz . <p> Israel has accused al-Ata of being behind the launch of rockets in September that were targeted at the Israeli city of Ashod as Netanyahu spoke there for a campaign event ahead of the country 's elections , according to Reuters . <p> " He who fired rockets last time is n't with us anymore , " Netanyahu said at the event , according to Haaretz . " And he who fired now , better start packing his belongings . " <p> " This is n't an attack on me or on Ashkelon , it 's not that . These are recurring attacks on our communities , and they think that we wo n't hurt them or that we 'll break down , " he added . 
@@82903005 <h> Epic Fail for Hamas Terrorists : Weekly Gaza Riots Fizzle Out <h> Related : <p> Hamas regularly pushed women and children to the front of violent riots along the Gaza border , which appear to be winding down . <p> By United with Israel Staff <p> An announcement was made on Thursday by the organizing committee of weekly riots overseen by the Hamas terror group communicating that the violent demonstrations may be coming to an end . <p> The committee said the demonstrations will only take place once a month , beginning in March , the second anniversary of the riots . <p> From the outset , Hamas used the riots to stage heated confrontations with Israeli troops , with terror group members acting as snipers , rock hurlers , and would-be infiltrators using women and children as human shields to mount their attacks . <p> Israel consistently defended its border against attacks and infiltration attempts . <p> Hamas also continued its rocket attacks on the Jewish state , with the Iran-backed Palestinian Islamic Jihad joining the missile launches as of late . <p> Late Wednesday , a rocket attack believed to have been launched by Islamic Jihad forced Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu off the stage during a campaign stop in southern Israel . <p> Israel responded by bombing a series of Hamas targets . Israel holds Hamas responsible for all fire out of Gaza , even rockets launched by rival militant groups . 
@@82907104 <h> Israel Douses Palestinian Arson Terror with New Anti-Drone System <h> Related : <p> Israel unveiled on Thursday a new laser system called " Light Blade " that shoots down incendiary balloons and kites , as well as drones launched at Israel from the Gaza Strip . <p> By TPS <p> Incendiary devices launched by terrorists in Gaza have ignited more than 2,155 fires in Israel between March 2018 and August 2019 and have burned more than 8,750 acres of land , including farmland , forests and nature reserves . The damage from the incendiary devices and drones from Gaza is estimated at $35 million . <p> The brand new Light Blade system is expected to shoot the incendiary devices mid-flight , before they reach Israel . It was developed for Israeli police and the IDF by three private-sector engineers who worked with Ben-Gurion University researchers , in conjunction with military and law enforcement technology departments . <p> The system operates day and night , using a laser beam to eliminate airborne Palestinian threats . Light Blade can reach up to two kilometers ( 1.6 miles ) from the system 's location and can be carried on a portable trolley or vehicle . <p> The IDF has made numerous attempts to develop an effective system to thwart the incendiary devices from Gaza since terrorists started using them two years ago . <p> In June 2018 , the Defense Ministry published a tender for the private sector to develop solutions to the problem . More than a year later , the Light Blade system seems to be the leading contender to become Israel 's defense against incendiary devices from Gaza . <p> The system has been tested extensively and has shown promising results . A final date for the deployment of the system has not yet been set . <p> When asked by Channel 12 about the system 's effectiveness , Border Police chief Kobi Shabtai said that Light Blade " provides a near-complete response to incendiary balloons and kites , and delivers a safe and effective solution to the drone threat . " 
