@@31497799 <h> Battle of wits <p> This picture , released on June 30 , shows SCAF chief Field Marshal Hussein Tantawi , presenting the " Shield of the Armed Forces " , the Egyptian military 's highest honour , to President Mohamed Morsy in a military base in Cairo. -HO/AFP <p> The Muslim Brotherhood under Mohamed Morsy has a tough task in keeping the military junta at bay . <p> The Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt continued to mount , during the run-up to the recent presidential election , a spirited campaign to rescue as much as possible of the democratic space that had been grabbed by the countrys military top brass . The election was eventually won by the Brotherhoods low-profile veteran Mohamed Morsy . Over the past few weeks , Morsy has become the face of the Islamists riposte , astutely configured by the Brotherhood , to push back , as much as possible , the covetous military , which wants to control to the maximum the key levers of political power . <p> In its fightback , the Muslim Brothers seem to have adopted tactics that have been woven around two principles . First , the counter-attack against the military has to be so calibrated that a complete breakdown of ties with the generals is avoided . But , at the same time , their riposte should not be so feeble that it disillusions their supporters into believing that their leaders are waging a farcical war , aimed only to play to the gallery . <p> In trying to strike the right balance between rash political adventurism and passivity , the Muslim Brothers have used their political tool kit well . On most occasions , they have anchored their defiance of the military to principles that are well founded in the countrys interim basic laws . Nevertheless , on some occasions they have not hesitated to pursue a more populist course when , in their view , a direct confrontation with the generals could become counterproductive . <p> The grim tussle between the Muslim Brothers and the junta , represented by the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces ( SCAF ) , acquired high visibility ahead of Morsys oath-taking ceremony . While the presidential votes were still being counted , the military released a draconian order that denied the President any real power , especially over the military . The move , seen by many independent jurists as illegal , capped another shocker by the SCAF which had earlier decreed the dissolution of Parliament and the transfer of all legislative powers to the military . The SCAFs order was also unambiguous in stating that the President-elect would take his inaugural oath before the jurists of the Supreme Constitutional Court , the highest court of the land . <p> The militarys order pushed the Muslim Brothers on the horns of a dilemma . In case they agreed to the SCAFs directive that Morsy take his oath before the Supreme Court , it would mean imparting some legitimacy to the order that the Brothers had so firmly opposed . But if the Islamists rejected the SCAFs move , it could provoke an immediate backlash from the generals and threaten Morsys presidency even before it was born . A combination of populism and political compromise , however , saved the day . <p> Before he presented himself before the Supreme Constitutional Court , Morsy appeared at Tahrir Square , the peoples court , which had become the icon of the uprising that toppled the dictatorship of Hosni Mubarak . It was amid his supporters who had thronged the square in their thousands that Morsy took his presidential oath before heading to the Supreme Court where the judges , who had earlier passed a dubious order that had led to the dissolution of Parliament , were waiting for him . <p> With Morsys anointment as President out of the way , the battle of wits between the politically savvy Muslim Brothers and the crafty SCAF has entered its next stage . <p> Soon after Morsy had moved to the opulent , Mubarak-era presidential palace in the Cairo suburb of Heliopolis , the Muslim Brotherhood fired its next salvo to pull back some of the legislative powers that had been earlier lost to the generals . <p> The SCAF had wrested control of all law-making powers after dissolving Parliament during the run-up to the presidential election . The SCAFs controversial decree , which had inflamed emotions , were based on a judgment of the Supreme Court that had pronounced that elections to one-third of the seats in the Peoples Assembly the lower house of Parliament were unconstitutional . On the basis of this , the SCAF took the extreme step of dissolving the entire Islamist-dominated Parliament , disregarding other possible options such as arranging a re-election to those seats whose constitutionality had been questioned by the court . <p> Rejecting the SCAFs ruling , Morsy , now President , summoned the Peoples Assembly for a session . Parliament met for a few minutes and vowed to challenge its dissolution in another court . <p> In this political tug of war between the Muslim Brotherhood and the junta , the judicial establishment , now showing deep divisions , appears to have become a serious casualty . Soon after the dissolved Parliament had been summoned , the Supreme Court pronounced the move illegal . But that , in turn , triggered a firestorm within judicial bodies that seemed , like most other Egyptian institutions , deeply divided along loyalty lines the former regimes supporters and opponents . <p> The battle lines within the judiciary have been drawn between the Judges for Egypt Movement , supporters of the anti-Mubarak camp , and the Egyptian Judges Club . The Judges for Egypt Movement , made up of reformist judges , had earlier taken the initiative to oversee the recent presidential election . The Egyptian Judges Club , departing from its earlier progressive orientation , has turned increasingly conservative since 2009 when Ahmed El-Zend became its leader . <p> Hours after Morsy issued the decree to reinstate Parliament , El-Zend warned the President that he would face severe measures unless he backtracked within the next 36 hours . The presidential decree goes against the ruling of the High Constitutional Court , which is the highest judicial authority in Egypt , El-Zend said at a Cairo press conference . But his words provoked an equally vociferous response from the pro-revolution judicial camp , once again mirroring the incompleteness of the Egyptian revolution , which is yet to overcome the competition for institutional space between a fading old guard and new forces seeking change . Walid Shoraby , spokesman for the Judges for Egypt Movement , condemned El-Zend for criticising the President so harshly . I urge El-Zend to realise that judges will not idly stand by and listen to irresponsible and unrepresentative remarks , asserted Shoraby at another press conference . Another judge , Hesham El-Labban , vowed to adopt a no-confidence vote against El-Zend following his anti-Morsy tirade . <p> Morsys foreign policy <p> Despite the political uncertainty and the chaotic institutional realignments that were taking place at home , Morsy has been showing extreme activism in the foreign policy arena . Leaving the unresolved internal problems behind , the President chose Saudi Arabia , the wealthy oil kingdom , which has traditionally hosted a large number of Egyptian expatriate workers , as his first overseas destination . With its economy in a shambles , Egypt is in dire need of hefty investments from Saudi Arabia , whose coffers have been bolstered significantly by the consistently high prices of oil . Cairo also needs Riyadh to extend its welcome to Egyptian expatriate workers whose remittances are very important for Egypts ailing economy . <p> In Cairo 's Iconic Tahrir Square on June 29 , when Morsy took a symbolic oath of office there as the country 's President. -HO/AFP <p> Morsys well-publicised performance of Umrah , the Islamic ritual in Mecca , was also not without political meaning . By performing the Umrah , which highlighted his religiosity , the embattled President hoped to reinforce the psychological bonds with millions of devout supporters who have stood by him during the turmoil that post-Mubarak Egypt has been experiencing . <p> During the limited time he has had as President , Morsy has also flagged his countrys deep interest in Africa a move that connects well with a Nasserite tradition , for Africa was central to the alternative vision of a new world order conceived by Gamal Abdel Nasser , Egypts first President . Unsurprisingly , members of the Presidents delegation ensured in Ethiopia that Morsy was suitably photographed next to a giant portrait of Nasser , who had played a key role in African politics during the continents heady struggles for national liberation in the 1960s . Apart from the symbolism of continuity , Morsys visit was remarkable on another count he became the first President to visit Ethiopia since 1995 , the year gunmen failed to assassinate Mubarak not far from the Addis Ababa airport . <p> Morsy is now all set to reinforce bonds with Palestinians , who have been increasingly divided between the secular Fatah and the Islamist Hamas , which has Muslim Brotherhood roots . The new Egyptian President has already gone public in articulating his intention to promote reconciliation between the Fatah and Hamas . At a news conference in Cairo with his Tunisian counterpart , Moncef Marzouki , Morsy said : We agree on supporting the Palestinian cause and Palestinian reconciliation . But aware that he would be accused of partisanship because of a deeply established relationship in the past with Hamas , Morsy , hoping to establish Egypt as a neutral role player , stressed that he stood at the same distance from all Palestinian factions . <p> Morsy also steered clear of any controversy that would have naturally occurred had he commented on easing the border restrictions between Gaza and Egypt . ( The restrictions have been tightly in place since Israel decided to blockade Gaza when Hamas established control of the coastal strip in 2007 . ) <p> However , by refraining from comments on the restrictions , the Egyptian President may have only managed to buy some time , for a clearer enunciation on Palestine and Israel from Egypts post-Mubarak leaders is inevitable . <p> Just ahead of Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas maiden visit to Cairo , Palestinian officials have made it clear that talks with Morsy and other leaders would not be focussed on any narrow agenda . The two Presidents will tackle the future of the peace process , Palestinian reconciliation and the urgent necessity of lifting the siege on the Gaza Strip , said Saeb Erekat , the Palestinian negotiator , ahead of Abbas visit . <p> Concerned about the Muslim Brotherhoods regional ambitions , the United States has mounted a diplomatic campaign to dissuade the Egyptians from pursuing a course that marks a significant departure from the past . The arrival in Cairo of Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has demonstrated that the U.S. is now seriously and openly working on Egypts new leaders . An article in the Egyptian daily Al Ahram seemed to sum up well the context of Hillary Clintons visit . Its fallout may affect not Egypt alone but a large part of West Asia as well . <p> Citing American and Egyptian officials , the article said that one of the purposes of the visit was to receive a clear-cut commitment from the new President that Egypt under his watch would remain as committed as before to the Egypt-Israel peace deal signed by the two countries in 1979 . During talks , the U.S. expected a commitment from Egypt that it would utilise its good ties that link the Muslim Brotherhood with the Hamas movement in the Gaza Strip to curtail any plans that Hamas might have towards escalation with Israel , the daily said , quoting an American diplomatic source . <p> The U.S. also expected from Morsy a pledge that he would not deviate from Egypts traditional policy of limited engagement with Iran . Besides , Washington wanted assurances that the rights of women and Coptic Christians , and other minorities in Egypt would be respected by Egypts new leaders . <p> During her visit , Hillary Clinton called upon the SCAF to work towards ensuring the militarys return to a purely national security role . According to some analysts , her visit seemed to outline the broad contours of a deal where the U.S. would support the new government , provided Egypt under his watch did not significantly deviate from the current foreign policy towards Israel and Iran . Simultaneously , the Islamists have to guarantee protection for Egypts minorities , especially Coptic Christians , who have been targeted by a radical Islamist fringe in the past . <p> Despite Hillary Clintons exhortations , it is unlikely that the Muslim Brothers , under pressure for change within from their supporters , can entirely abide by the American wish list . While the peace treaty with Israel is likely to stay , it is equally possible that the Egyptians , on humanitarian grounds , would want Israel to lift the tight siege that it has imposed on the people of Gaza . Relations with Iran are also expected to improve as Morsy heads to Teheran in August-end to attend the summit of the Non-Aligned Movement which will be held there . <p> The post-Mubarak tumult , which has already acquired a larger regional footprint , can only be expected to intensify as Egypts new leaders , wanting to expand their democratic space , sharpen their assault on the military junta , which , in defence of its vast commercial empire and lust for power , appears in no mood to relent. 
@@31521197 <h> Keeping out of America 's mess <p> It would be a blunder for New Delhi to become a U.S. camp follower in Iraq and Israel-Palestine just when America 's authority there is crumbling . <p> JUST as the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government embarks on a huge foreign policy misadventure by inviting Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon on a visit , and as it again contemplates the despatch of troops to Iraq , America 's authority in West Asia seems to be crumbling . Within two days of the August 19 attack on the United Nations office in Baghdad killing over 20 people , including its Chief , Sergio Vieira de Mello , Israeli troops killed senior Hamas leader Ismail Abu Shanab in a missile attack - apparently in retaliation for a suicide-bombing of a bus in Jerusalem . With this , the seven-weeks-old ceasefire in Israel-Palestine has collapsed , putting the United States-brokered road map for peace in jeopardy . <p> These truly momentous events would drag the U.S. deeper into a quagmire . The collapse of the road map could literally mean the end of the road . If what little remains of the leadership of Abu Mazen ( whose approval ratings are under 5 per cent among the Palestinians ) also disappears , it is unlikely that the U.S.-Israel would find another pliable Palestinian Liberation Organisation ( PLO ) leader for quite some time . <p> As for Iraq , the situation there has turned super-critical . The U.S. has panicked and gone to the U.N . Security Council , which it so despises , with a request for a fresh resolution requesting more troops . Just a week earlier , it had arrogantly declared that it had no intention of moving a fresh resolution to please powers ( like France and India ) which " seek influence in post-war Iraq " but had failed to support the war itself . <p> Going by a New York Times report , the Americans are leaning heavily on the U.N . to encourage former opponents of the war in Iraq to contribute military aid . Yet , when U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell met U.N . Secretary-General Kofi Annan , he made it clear that the war coalition would continue to command all military forces in Iraq . It would not cede any of its political and economic authority , though the U.N . ' s future role " can be discussed in the course of our negotiations on a resolution " . In other words , other countries contribute cannon fodder , in return for measly rewards , but they must accept U.S. hegemony and control . <p> Indian policy-makers , many of whom have been eager to send troops to Iraq , are keenly " watching the evolving situation " . Going by selective media briefings , they hope that there would be some form of U.N . authorisation " on the lines of the Afghan or Kosovo models " so that they can stretch the cover of a " U.N . fig-leaf " . Under the favoured formula , the so-called Interim Governing Council of Iraq , a U.S. puppet , would invite India to despatch troops and the invitation would be backed up by a Security Council resolution that mandates an outside force to keep the peace in Iraq - on the lines of what NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organisation ) is doing in Afghanistan . New Delhi would then send a division-level force to Iraq . <p> Of a piece with this calculus is the Vajpayee government 's keenness to develop a strategic partnership with Israel under its rabidly anti-Palestinian Likud Party leadership . None other than National Security Adviser Brajesh Mishra laid out the rationale for this in his May 8 address to the extreme-Zionist American Jewish Committee ( AJC ) at its 97th annual dinner meeting in Washington . Mishra spoke in " admiration " of the AJC and in " celebration " of " the alliance of free societies involved in combating this scourge of terrorism . The U.S. , India and Israel have all been prime targets of terrorism . They have to jointly face the same ugly face of modern-day terrorism . " He advocated that " a core , consisting of democratic societies " must emerge , " which can take on international terrorism in a holistic and focussed manner ... to ensure that the global campaign against terrorism is pursued to its logical conclusion ... " <p> The U.S.-Israel-India " triad " or " axis " would form the core of this " democratic " alliance . This would have " the political will and moral authority to take bold decisions ... It would not get bogged down in definitional and casual arguments about terrorism ... " Mishra underscored military means of combating terrorism , dismissing as " nonsense " the idea that terrorism 's root causes must be addressed . This too fits snugly with the primarily militaristic approach to any crisis advocated by Sharon and other Likudniks . <p> According to other selective briefings , Indian policy-makers are eager to " reach out " to Israel not only because it has emerged as a major supplier of military equipment to India ( including the likely transfer of the " Phalcon " early warning system , and avionics for the Russian-built Sukhoi-30 ) , but because India wants to have " a greater say " and role , and " greater relevance " in West Asia . ( The Indian Express , August 20 ) According to another " background " briefing ( The Pioneer , August 20 ) , India 's new approach towards Israel is the result of its conviction that " it is not desirable for a big country like ours to be the echo chamber of any one side in West Asia ... New Delhi has gradually come around to acknowledging ... that India has crucial interests in the region . We should not be absent from any peace move in this area because stability in the region is crucial to us ... With Israel there is an obvious community of interests ' ... " <p> This logic is a recipe for converting India into a meek camp-follower or client of the U.S. as well as yoking it to a special partnership with Israel , just when it is trying to ward off international pressure to agree to the creation of a Palestinian state . <p> It would be morally outrageous and politically disastrous for India to take this course in pursuit of delusions ( influence in West Asia ) and on the assumption that the global power-balance has altered so decisively in favour of the U.S. after the Cold War and especially after its military victory in Iraq that " old " issues like non-alignment , democratic reform of the world order , and decolonisation , peace and justice have become irrelevant ; " the reality " is that the U.S. is the only power that matters ; align with it and prosper ; or oppose it and perish . <p> This view grossly distorts reality . The U.S. has proved that it is a military giant with feet of clay , and that it is incapable of devising a wise political strategy to stabilise Iraq , leave alone combat terrorism . Indeed , Washington has snatched political defeat from the jaws of military victory by turning a country that was not a terrorist threat into a cauldron of discontent and vengeful anger in which Al Qaeda-style extremist-terrorist ideas flourish . <p> The attack on the U.N . office in Iraq may or may not be the work of non-Iraqi groups , as Western intelligence officers suspect . But it shows how vulnerable and unsafe everybody and everything is in Iraq . It is futile to pretend that opposition to the Anglo-American occupation is confined to the " Sunni heartland " around Baghdad . It is widespread and extends to the Shia centre and south and the Kurdish north ( where oil pipelines were sabotaged ) . The resentment leaves nobody secure . <p> The resentment 's roots are of America 's own making . About half of the Iraqis polled by the Iraq Centre for Research and Strategic Studies attribute the anti-US resistance and violence to " provocation " by American forces . The U.S. ' failure to provide a minimum of public services and security to the people is compounded by a series of political blunders , including the creation of an interim council which few Iraqis respect , and which is so divided that it can not elect a full-time president ! <p> The August 19 attack has undermined the image of the U.N . as a relatively invulnerable institution , guarantor of security and Iraq 's future " peace-keeper " . And yet , as former U.N . Assistant Secretary-General in Iraq Hans von Sponeck says , the attack " is n't a surprise . The Iraqis are angry . The range of anger goes with dissatisfaction about the lack of progress in restoring normalcy , to these extreme forms of hostility President Bush again today repeated that they brought freedom to Iraq . This is not freedom . An externally imposed rather than an Iraqi-made freedom is not real freedom and we will see more of what has happened today as we go along ... " - unless the occupation powers change their approach . <p> It would be foolhardy to respond to this situation by demanding more troops and greater application of force . The U.S. will be tempted to do exactly that - and to bulldoze the U.N. , to cut its own military losses . Washington under its neo-conservative leadership will also blame the " foreign hand " and resist the plain fact that the occupation has created an indigenous resistance . The situation is bound to turn messier and uglier as the U.S. makes more and more political mistakes . <p> THE Israel-Palestine story is no better . Indeed , it may be worse . Washington has shown no real will to bring Sharon to heel and stop him from building an " Apartheid Wall " , which is even higher than the Berlin Wall . This will divide not only Israel from the West Bank , but also isolate the West Bank ( the largest Palestinian settlement ) from East Jerusalem , which the Palestinian Authority ( PA ) claims as its future Capital . The wall will be 8 metres-high and 650-km-long compared to the 3.6 metres-high , 155-km-long Berlin original . This high-technology-based " Separation Barrier " will be equipped with electrified fencing , sniper towers , two-metre-deep trenches , roads for patrol vehicles , electronic sensors , thermal imaging , video cameras , and unmanned aerial vehicles . <p> This attempt to alter the conditions on the ground before a settlement of the Palestinian question is negotiated is complemented by other measures , including a law just passed by the Knesset , which forces Palestinians marrying Israelis to live separate lives or quit Israel . It also bars West Bank and Gaza Palestinians who marry Israeli Arabs from obtaining Israeli residence permits . <p> Yet , people like Brajesh Mishra see in such obnoxiously racist measures " common " virtues such as " pluralism , tolerance and equal opportunity " on which to found a special relationship with Israel . No wonder they fail to understand the role Likud has historically played in opposing Palestinian statehood , justifying illegal settlements on the occupied territories in the name of Biblical-era " Greater Israel " , and even opposing the Oslo accords although they were soft on Israel . It also bears repetition that Sharon is as fit a man to be tried for war crimes and crimes against humanity , as is Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet for the butchery and " disappearance " of thousands of innocent people . <p> As Defence Minister in 1982 , Sharon launched an unprovoked war on Lebanon ( where the PLO had taken refuge ) , which killed 17,000 civilians . The excuse was an assassination attempt on Israel 's Ambassador in London , although a PLO rival conducted it . In September 1982 , Sharon arranged for the Phalangist militia to enter the Sabra and Shatilla refugee camps near Beirut , and butcher 2,000-3,000 people . The area was then fully under Israeli control . Even the U.S. Ambassador to Israel was appalled . He told the Israelis : " You must stop the massacres . They are obscene ... They are killing children . You are in absolute control of the area and therefore responsible ... " <p> Sharon was single-handedly responsible for promoting the Second Intifada three years ago through his infamous walk , accompanied by 1,000 Israeli soldiers , to the holy site of Haram al-Sharief in East Jerusalem . He is a brazen proponent of " targeted assassinations " directed at people the Israeli state " knows " to be terrorists - that is without trying them and proving their culpability . In this regard , Sharon 's role has been as inflammatory , if not more so , than that of Hamas or Islamic Jehad . Israel has pursued a strategy of escalation of force and used vastly more devastating power than its adversaries . <p> The Vajpayee government is not only bringing ignominy upon itself , but doing India a horrendous disservice by rolling out the red carpet for Sharon to celebrate its perverse " friendship " with Likudnik Israel . Its orientation violates India 's long-standing commitment to Palestinian nationhood and peace in West Asia-North Africa . Such betrayal of India 's own agenda of decolonisation will not go down well with our public . Our political parties and civil society organisations must take to the streets to protest Sharon 's visit and the government 's collusion with U.S. as regards Iraq . 
@@31522793 <h> On the Frontlines of Progressive Anti-Semitism <p> I am a young , gay , left-wing Jew . Yet I am called an " apartheid-enabler , " a " baby killer " and a " colonial apologist . " <p> By Blake Flayton <p> Mr. Flayton is a sophomore at George Washington University . <p> Nov. 14 , 2019 <p> Anti-Israel demonstrators gathered in New York in May 2018 . Credit ... Erik McGregor/Pacific Press , via Getty Images <p> I have never done 23-and-me , nor have I " ancestry.com 'd " myself . It 's never felt necessary . My family 's Eastern European Jewish heritage was something we lived to honor , including in our politics . <p> Like so many others , my family came to this country escaping discrimination in the Old Country and facing injustice in the New : abusive labor conditions ; university quotas ; social exclusion when we tried to climb the ladder of the American dream . Given our history in this country -- and our involvement in so many social justice movements -- it should n't be a surprise that so many young Jews , myself included , ca n't imagine being anything other than political progressives . As a gay abortion rights advocate and environmentalist , my place in such circles has always been welcomed and accepted . <p> Well , until now . <p> As a sophomore at George Washington University , whose student government last year passed the Boycott , Divestment and Sanctions proposal , I now find myself pushed to the fringes of a movement I thought I was at the heart of , marginalized as someone suspicious at best and oppressive at worst . This is because I am a Zionist . It is because I , like 95 percent of American Jews , support Israel . <p> Before I arrived on campus , I could proudly say that I was both a strong progressive and a Zionist . I did n't think there was a conflict between those two ideas . In fact , I understood them as being in sync , given that progressives have long championed the liberation movements of downtrodden minorities . I viewed -- and still view -- the establishment of the state of Israel as a fundamentally just cause : the most persecuted people in human history finally gaining the right of self-determination after centuries of displacement , intimidation , violence and genocide . For me , this remains true even as I oppose the occupation of the West Bank . It is my Zionism that informs my view that the Palestinian people also have the right to their own state . <p> But my view is not at all shared by the progressive activist crowd I encountered on campus . They have made it abundantly clear to me and other Jews on campus that any form of Zionism -- even my own liberal variant , which criticizes various policies of Israel 's prime minister , Benjamin Netanyahu , and seeks a just two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict -- is a political nonstarter . For this group at my school , and similar groups on campuses and cities around the country , Zionism itself is , to parrot the Soviet propaganda of several decades ago , racist . And anybody who so dares to utter the words " right to exist " is undeniably a proponent of racism . <p> Given that almost all American Jews identify as " pro-Israel , " even as the majority of us are also critical of Israeli government policy , this intolerance affects huge numbers of young American Jews . I am one of them . <p> At many American universities , mine included , it is now normal for student organizations to freely call Israel an imperialist power and an outpost of white colonialism with little pushback or discussion -- never mind that more than half of Israel 's population consists of Israeli Jews from the Middle East and North Africa , and that the country boasts a 20 percent Arab minority . The word " apartheid " is thrown around without hesitation . The Israeli-Palestinian conflict is repeatedly dragged into discussions ranging anywhere from L.G.B.T.Q. equality ( where to mention Israel 's vastly better record on gay rights compared with that of any other country in the Middle East is branded " pinkwashing " ) , to health care to criminal justice reform . <p> At a recent political club meeting I attended , Zionism was described by leadership as a " transnational project , " an anti-Semitic trope that characterizes the desire for a Jewish state as a bid for global domination by the Jewish people . The organization went on to say that Zionism should not be " normalized . " Later , when I advised a member to add more Jewish voices to the organization 's leadership as a means of adding more nuance to their platform , I was assured that anti-Zionist Jews were already a part of the club and thus my concerns of anti-Semitism were baseless . <p> I expected this loophole , as it is all too common across progressive spaces : groups protect themselves against accusations of anti-Semitism by trotting out their anti-Zionist Jewish supporters , despite the fact that such Jews are a tiny fringe of the Jewish community . Such tokenism is seen as unacceptable -- and rightfully so -- in any other space where a marginalized community feels threatened . <p> All of this puts progressive Jews like myself in an extraordinarily difficult position . We often refrain from calling out anti-Semitism on our side for fear of our political bona fides being questioned or , worse , losing friends or being smeared as the things we most revile : racist , white supremacist , colonialist and so on . And that is exactly what happens when we do speak up . <p> After the Israeli election in April , I spent a week explaining to my classmates that there were plenty of people in Israel who did n't vote for Mr. Netanyahu 's Likud party , just as there were and are many Americans who oppose President Donald Trump , only to be called an " apartheid-enabler , " a " baby killer " and a " colonial apologist " by my peers in person and on social media . <p> The next month , on May Day , I eagerly attended a student rally for higher wages for the university 's custodial staff , excitedly carrying a " Fair Wages Now " poster I had made . The rally attracted dozens of students . We all gathered in the quad where we chanted for fair wages , cheered for speakers and booed the names of G.W. executives . Then the organizers of the rally invited speakers from the organizations Jewish Voice for Peace and Students for Justice in Palestine . At first , I applauded these speakers -- I figured that although I might disagree with these organizations about Israel , these students have every right to speak on the issue of fair wages for custodial staff . <p> But as they began to speak , the gathering suddenly transformed from a " fair wages " rally to a " Free Palestine " rally . The speakers railed against the oppression of Palestinians in Gaza and the West Bank , which , according to them , had everything to do with G.W. janitors making less than their fair share . The students saw no reason to decry labor conditions or human rights violations in any other university , city , state , region or country . Reasonable people recognize that conflating the Jews with being money-hungry or cheap is anti-Semitic . How is tying the Israeli-Palestinian conflict to janitors not getting paid enough at an American university any different ? <p> And just last week , a video was posted to a student 's Snapchat story , in which another G.W. student is seen advocating the bombing of Israel , and then proceeding to spew blatantly anti-Semitic profanities about Jews . <p> This is our new normal . On college campuses and in progressive circles across the country , it does not matter if you strongly oppose the right-wing leadership in Israel ; if you are a Zionist , you are seen as the enemy . It does not matter if you think President Trump is a monster for smearing Ilhan Omar and Rashida Tlaib ; I have been branded " irredeemably problematic " on G.W. 's campus because of my unwillingness to unconditionally support their politics . It does not matter if you believe in the right of self determination for all people , including Palestinians ; if you still feel a connection to the State of Israel as a homeland for the Jewish people , you are on the wrong side of history . <p> While white supremacists plot to murder Jews across this country , " anti-Zionists " on college campuses seek to marginalize us as white supremacists . Consider the fact that at the University of Virginia -- where white supremacists marched through campus shouting " Jews will not replace us ! " -- it was Jewish students who were barred from joining a minority student coalition to fight white supremacy ( that decision is under review ) . At Benedictine University , a student aligned with the Students for Justice in Palestine group asked a guest speaker who survived the Holocaust to denounce the crimes of Israel against Palestinians , and then left during his speech . <p> This month , more than 400 Jewish students walked out of a student government meeting at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign , after the Student Senate , by a vote of 29 to 4 , approved a resolution of Students for Justice in Palestine that condemned " conflation of anti-Zionism and anti-Semitism . " At the meeting , according to Ian Katsnelson , the only Jewish senator , there was a poster that equated supporters of Israel with Nazis . <p> Then , after the vote , Students for Justice in Palestine touted their victory as sending " a powerful message yesterday to white supremacist forces on campus . " Casting Jews and their allies as white supremacists is call-out culture at its worst : Dare to disagree and you 're denounced as your greatest domestic enemy . <p> This is the reality of being a politically active Jew on many American college campuses . If you call yourself a Zionist because your family fled to Israel from a Middle Eastern country as a means of survival , you are complicit in ethnic cleansing . If you call yourself a Zionist because your family fled Germany to escape a concentration camp , you are a colonialist . If you call yourself a Zionist because your family made aliyah to Israel because of their religious or spiritual beliefs , you are complicit in apartheid . <p> Progressives believe that words matter , and that words can soften the ground for violence . We also believe that any politics that excludes , ignores or dehumanizes the voices of minorities is a politics that is dangerous for all of us . Do these activists , who have increasing sway beyond the quad , believe that those same considerations should be granted to Jews ? I fear the answer to that question . <p> Blake Flayton ( @blakeflayton ) is a sophomore at George Washington University . 
@@31529490 <p> By November , Iowa and New Hampshire begin to feel as cold as they will in February , when the first votes in the Presidential race will be cast there . On November 10th , in Berlin , New Hampshire , the sun set at 4:22 P.M. In Littleton , on the far side of the White Mountains , there was a crust of snow on the ground . Among Democratic campaigns and voters , the carnival pageantry of the summer , of state fairs and parades , gave way to an intense theatre of hope , winnowing , and dread . <p> More than a dozen candidates were competing for the nomination , but none had convincingly demonstrated that he or she could build a strong Democratic coalition , let alone defeat Donald Trump . Joe Biden -- who , as Barack Obama 's Vice-President , was his most natural successor and who is still first in the national polls -- had been campaigning languidly , with periodic outbursts of worrying verbiage , and his standing had deteriorated throughout the year . Bernie Sanders had been off the trail for two weeks in October following a heart attack . Elizabeth Warren , who had gathered strong support with her message about the quiet desperation of the middle class , now seemed to be confusing more voters than she was attracting , by insisting on her plan to dispense with private insurance and replace it , at a cost of more than twenty trillion dollars , with Medicare for All . This fall , as even the prospect of impeachment seemingly did little to erode Donald Trump 's base , Democrats began to notice the void at the center of American politics , and to wonder , with increasing urgency , who might fill it . <p> When , over Veterans Day weekend , Pete Buttigieg , the mayor of South Bend , Indiana , a gay married man and a military veteran with a calm , slightly abstracted manner , boarded his campaign bus for a tour of New Hampshire , he still seemed like a niche candidate , polling in the low teens in the state . He was mostly popular with white professionals , and showed a distinct talent for fund-raising , bringing in more money than any other Democratic candidate in the second quarter of 2019 . By Thanksgiving , the race had shifted . Buttigieg was leading by several points in both Iowa and New Hampshire , and he was up to second in a national Quinnipiac poll , which noted that he had become the favored candidate of white voters without college educations , too . <p> The surface absurdity of this situation -- that one of the leading candidates for the job of rescuing a free nation from a corrupt would-be authoritarian is a mayor who has never won more than eleven thousand votes in an election -- is generally unacknowledged on the campaign trail these days . Buttigieg is thirty-seven , just two years clear of the constitutional minimum for a President . He is small and slight , with thick dark hair , peaked eyebrows , pale skin , and a quiet , anticipatory presence -- he is often on the balls of his feet . In New Hampshire , Buttigieg wore a white shirt and a blue tie under an oversized brown leather bomber jacket that looked as if it had been purchased in haste when the cold descended . He followed the pilgrimage trail of a Democrat in a rural state -- craft brewery to solar array , craft brewery to solar array -- in an unassuming way . He is not an especially physical or energetic performer on the stump ; his great gift is his voice , which is deep and relaxed . He often stands with his left shoulder a little slouched and lets a baritone reasonableness suffuse the room . His punch lines sound like observations : " I do n't have to throw myself a military parade to see what a convoy looks like , because I was driving one around Afghanistan -- right about the time this President was taping Season 7 of ' The Celebrity Apprentice . ' " <p> Voters who come to Buttigieg events tend to know two things about him . The first is that he was something of a boy wonder : an ace literature student at Harvard and a Rhodes Scholar . On the trail , Buttigieg wears his intelligence lightly but insistently . He does not use bookish words , or delve deeply into policy detail , but , early in the race , at the request of an Oslo camera crew , he did speak some words of Norwegian -- a language he said he had taught himself in order to read the untranslated work of the novelist Erlend Loe -- and when an exchange student from Gaza posed a question about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict he replied , briefly , in Arabic . Of all the aspects of Buttigieg 's persona , the boy-wonder thing is what has most seduced his fans and irritated his opponents , who see it as a way of turning a very fast and self-conscious rise through the establishment into a story of destiny . At the fifth Democratic debate , in November , Cory Booker , a senator from New Jersey , who was a two-term mayor of Newark , pointed out that he , too , was a Rhodes Scholar , and that he had served as mayor of " the largest city in my state . " ( South Bend , with a population of a hundred and one thousand , is the fourth-largest city in Indiana , right behind Evansville . ) Senator Amy Klobuchar , of Minnesota , who is running toward the bottom of the pack , was characteristically blunt about the modesty of her rival 's current office . " Women are held to a higher standard , " she said . <p> The second thing that voters know about Buttigieg is more meaningful : that he hopes to embody what one of his senior strategists described to me as " the yearning for reconciliation . " Waiting to hear Buttigieg speak at the refurbished Rex Theatre , in Manchester , New Hampshire , Dan Chase , fifty-six , told me , " I 'll be honest with you -- I voted for Trump and I 'm embarrassed about it . " But if the President embarrassed him , Sanders and Warren spooked him : " They are way out there . " Standing next to Chase was Mary Kate Roukey , twenty-three , who had favored Warren until she heard the details of Warren 's Medicare for All plan , which seemed , she said dubiously , " super-ambitious . " Onstage , Buttigieg said that the coming years would require a President " who can stand on the rubble of what has been busted in our society and in our politics , pick up the pieces , implement bold solutions , get something done about those issues , and " -- he leaned hard on the word -- " find a way to do it that 's actually going to unify the American people . The good news I 'm offering you is that can happen -- that will happen -- when I 'm your President . " There was a round of applause . <p> Watch Buttigieg long enough and you notice that he uses abstraction as an escape hatch . Above the quotidian divisions of politics , he describes a realm where all Americans are one . His campaign has failed dismally to attract African-American voters -- according to one recent poll , his support among black Democrats in South Carolina is at less than one per cent -- so I asked him what themes helped him make a connection with them . " A really big one is faith , " he said . What common ground could he offer Republicans , given his progressive policy ideas ? " I think appealing to family and family values is really important to me , " he replied . It was like watching a pilot , once all normal systems had failed , push the button on an ejector seat . These appeals to old-fashioned American values are his most politician-like habit , and they give his language a touch of nostalgia . <p> Advertisement <p> At the Rex Theatre , Buttigieg took questions from the audience . The microphone was passed to an older man in the back , a self-declared Republican who said that he would not vote for Donald Trump next year ( lusty applause ) . He went on to say that he had observed rising interest costs and wanted to know whether Buttigieg was taking them seriously . Buttigieg furrowed his brow . For weeks , he had been talking about bringing " Republicans of conscience " into his campaign , and here was an ideal specimen . " The lesson I take from seeing what the Washington Republicans are doing is : if Democrats do n't start caring about deficits and the debt , that will mean nobody does , " Buttigieg told him . Fiscal " time bombs " will go off sooner or later . " It 's one of the reasons why you 'll see that I 'm being very careful about the promises that I make on the campaign trail . " <p> For a moment it seemed that Buttigieg , in his eagerness to please , might have followed the Republican of conscience into an outright conservative position . " Still big ! " he said hastily of his plans , and assured the audience that his health-care proposal , Medicare for All Who Want It , would be " the biggest thing we 've done in fifty years . " Part of the tension in Buttigieg 's campaign is simple : he hopes to echo the transformative promises of the Warren and Sanders campaigns while appealing to the moderate voters who might well decide the general election . But Buttigieg would say that he is practicing a type of politics that has been all but abandoned since Trump 's election -- in which the role of a candidate is not to champion a movement but to steer a consensus . He is slow to take a side . In recent weeks , his campaign has had the useful effect of putting before many mainstream Democrats the question of whether an uplifting figure , young and unifying , was truly whom they wanted as their candidate . <p> As Buttigieg began rising in the polls , his staff invited groups of reporters onto the campaign bus for a rolling on-the-record conversation that lasted , one Sunday , for more than four and a half hours . The idea had been championed by Lis Smith , Buttigieg 's communications director , who is a year younger than he but is a veteran of New York politics and of Obama 's 2012 campaign . On the bus , Smith was an antic , profane presence . " You ingrates ! " she mock-howled at us , when she realized that no reporter had thanked her for all the access . When I asked Smith if the tour had been modelled on John McCain 's Straight Talk Express , of 2000 , she replied , " Obvi , " but Buttigieg is a less chummy presence than McCain . " He 'll tease the press , " David Foster Wallace wrote of McCain on the trail , in 2000 , " and give them shit in a way they do n't ever mind because it 's the sort of shit that makes you feel that here 's this very cool , important guy who 's noticing you and liking you enough to give you shit . " Buttigieg gave no one shit . Everyone grew slightly more formal in his presence . He settled into a seat , steepled his fingers , and waited . <p> It took a little time for the conversation to focus . Buttigieg can give a thoughtful answer to almost any question , but he rarely tells a joke or heartfelt accounts of the people he meets on the trail . He does n't gossip . When reporters ask him to comment about a development of the day , he says something generic , or just backs away from it . He 's far more interested in the broad sweep of social experience and political history . Eventually , I asked him to explain why so many Democrats want " big , structural change , " in Warren 's phrasing , or a " political revolution , " in Sanders 's . <p> As Buttigieg told it , the story began in his childhood , with Ronald Reagan 's Administration , and stretched through the Obama years -- a decades-long period that he described as the Reagan era , a time of neoliberal consensus around free-market capitalism and of escalating inequality . " A lot of it is Trump , but I think it 's really a reaction to forty years of dismantling social democracy , " Buttigieg said . " We 're reaping the consequences of them hollowing out so many of these things . And sometimes that expresses itself in very perverse ways , like it helps lead to Trump , who 's going to make it worse . " <p> Obama , he noted , ushered in major financial and health-care reforms , but , in a matter of months , he was hamstrung by a Republican Senate majority that was obsessed with conservative fiscal policy and refused to work with the White House . " We saw real progress , but it was constrained , " Buttigieg said . " But I do think it 's true that we did n't fully anticipate the bad faith of Mitch McConnell 's Senate . " His voice rose to a more speculative tone . He thought the problem was partly that the George W. Bush years had been characterized by " zealotry , which is different from cynicism . In other words , you had -- especially with the neocons -- these true believers kind of fanatically pulling us in a direction that I think was terrible , but there 's a sense that was what they truly believed . " With Trump , and with McConnell , Buttigieg said , " there 's so little good faith that it 's just different than a strong contest of ideas . " <p> He had worked himself around to one of the central tensions of his candidacy : how a politics of unity could work at a time of extreme partisanship . Buttigieg 's theory seems to be that change will take place on two tracks . He has proposed radical reforms to the political system : abolishing the Electoral College in favor of a national popular vote and changing the composition of the Supreme Court . For the Court , he has suggested giving five seats to each party and creating five more seats , for federal judges who would rotate through on one-year appointments . " I believe I have an obligation to start building the case for that even if it wo n't arrive for quite a while , " he said . In the meantime , he plans to pursue a more pragmatic agenda based on public support for gun-law reform , action on climate change , and heavier taxation of the very wealthy . He sometimes says that as President he would often fly to red states to pressure recalcitrant members of Congress . On the bus , someone asked him if that would actually work . " Even compared to the last time we had a Democratic President , people have moved in our direction on the issues , " Buttigieg said . " And there 's been zero extent to which that 's been tracked by a movement among Republicans in Congress . So I do think that showing up in areas where you can create pressure , even in areas where you 're going to be unpopular , is going to be really important for combatting polarization as well as for getting an agenda through . " If you squinted , you could start to see the outlines of a Buttigieg Presidency : uplifting talk about generational change , and an incrementalist approach to policy . <p> At each stop in New Hampshire , a few reporters got off the bus , and a few others got on , and there would be another round of newsy questions . Eventually , the deeper topics would be picked up again . Buttigieg answered everything in the same ultra-thoughtful tone , so that we went down a few rabbit holes . At one point , he tried to recall exactly how he had responded to a bully who shoved him when he was thirteen or fourteen . When Buttigieg whirled around to confront him , had he hit the kid or just stared him down ? A **25;242;TOOLONG intensity set in . Asked which hymn he liked best , Buttigieg named one that he 'd learned in Welsh , and then was embarrassed that he could n't remember the words in English . The conversation moved on . <p> Advertisement <p> Chicken wings were distributed . Someone cracked open a White Claw hard seltzer . As we headed over the White Mountains , a young CNN reporter tentatively referred to the healing that the candidate said he has been seeing under way in the country . Buttigieg 's husband , Chasten Buttigieg , a thirty-year-old schoolteacher , comes from a conservative Michigan family that struggled at first with Chasten 's sexuality . But now , Buttigieg had been saying on the stump , Chasten 's parents had embraced the couple , and the candidate planned to go deer-hunting on Thanksgiving morning with his father-in-law . " Have you spoken to Chasten 's brother lately ? " the reporter asked . He was referring to Rhyan Glezman , a born-again Christian pastor who has appeared on Laura Ingraham 's show , and who told the Washington Post , " I just do n't support the gay lifestyle . " Would he be coming to Thanksgiving dinner ? <p> Many politicians , when asked a delicate question , pause , as they weigh what they want to say , and the sympathies their answer might provoke , and then the antagonisms . " Well . . . , " they begin , and then they inhale , and we wait . " Buffering , " the MSNBC host Chris Hayes recently called it , referring to Obama , who does it often . Buttigieg did it now . Eventually , he said , " I think that part of my Thanksgiving will stay off the record . " The bus went quiet , and he sat there a little stiffly , no longer so pure an embodiment of the yearning for reconciliation . <p> The central parable of the modern Democratic Party is of the young prodigy who returns home to a scene of decline . It is Bill Clinton , from " a place called Hope , " in Arkansas . The tale gets told even when the facts do n't exactly fit -- when the politician is Cory Booker , for example , who has supplanted his middle-class upbringing in the New Jersey suburbs with his decades in Newark . One of the first ads that the Obama campaign released in Iowa in 2007 featured the Harvard constitutional-law professor Laurence Tribe , praising his former student 's decision to settle in Chicago . " It was inspiring , absolutely inspiring , to see someone as brilliant as Barack Obama , as successful , someone who could 've written his ticket on Wall Street , take all of the talent and all of the learning and decide to devote it to the community and to making people 's lives better , " Tribe said . The parable is about selflessness , but it is n't just that . The country is politically divided , between the cities and the countryside , and the coasts and the heartland , in ways that , because of the distribution of electoral power , have mostly benefitted Republicans . Hence the desire for the liberal prodigy , and hence the unusual expectations on him ( so far , he has almost always been male ) : that , having returned to a struggling place , he could learn to express the sensations of both sides , ambition and loss . <p> Pete Buttigieg was born in South Bend in 1982 , the son of two Notre Dame professors , Joseph Buttigieg , a Maltese immigrant and a scholar and translator of the Italian Marxist Antonio Gramsci ; and Anne Montgomery , an Indiana native and a linguist . Buttigieg notes in his elegant campaign memoir , " Shortest Way Home , " that the central trauma of South Bend , the closure of the Studebaker plant -- which resulted in the loss of seven thousand jobs -- occurred in the sixties , decades before he was born . " Growing up in any place with a lost golden age , you absorb its legacy in fragments , hearing once-great names -- Oliver , Morris , Bendix , Studebaker -- without being able to match them to anything living , " he writes . " You take them in at first without comprehension , like the names of the saints . " His family stayed in " South Bend proper , " near Notre Dame , even as many white families moved to the suburbs , and he was intensely aware of the deterioration of downtown : " You no longer went to get your first Communion suit from Gilbert 's or Robertson 's downtown anymore , you went instead to J.C . Penney at the mall in nearby Mishawaka . " De-industrialization had more severe effects in South Bend than the occasional trip to Mishawaka -- in 2011 , black poverty spiked to fifty-three per cent -- but Buttigieg says little in the book about the African-American experience . He recently acknowledged that , as mayor , he was " slow to realize " that , in part because of white flight , the public schools in his county were effectively segregated . <p> In 2004 , Buttigieg graduated from Harvard , where he was the student president of the Institute of Politics , a nonpartisan center founded in honor of John F. Kennedy . For a young political hopeful , it was a heady but circumscribed time -- Democrats seemed desperately in need of big ideas , but the center of the country was still understood to be pretty conservative . Buttigieg started a group with some college friends , the Democratic Renaissance Project , whose members read up on John Dewey , Louis Brandeis , and other liberal intellectual icons , and tried to imagine how Democrats might reclaim the initiative . K. Sabeel Rahman , a member of the Renaissance Project who is now a professor at Brooklyn Law School and the president of the liberal think tank Demos , told me , " There seemed to be all these crises -- the Iraq War , the Bush tax cuts , the sanctioning of torture -- and yet it felt like conservative ideas were ascendant and progressive ones kept losing , in part because we kept moderating ourselves and stayed within the bounds of a generally conservative world view . " Obama 's election in 2008 provoked hope and then some anxiety in Buttigieg 's circle . Rahman said , " There was a sense that the infrastructure of progressive ideas was not set up yet -- that Obama had arrived after thirty years of Reaganism , while F.D.R. had followed thirty years of progressive agitation . " <p> Buttigieg pursued his interest in political theory as a Rhodes Scholar , studying in the Philosophy , Politics , and Economics program at Oxford . He also wanted " an education in the real world , if there was such a thing , " he writes . This led him to a two-and-a-half-year stint at the Chicago office of McKinsey &amp; Company , the prestigious American consulting firm , known for its discreet counsel to the world 's most powerful governments and corporations . It was a deeply conventional choice for an ambitious Harvard graduate , and Buttigieg has struggled to explain it to progressives . McKinsey 's reputation has been badly tarnished by recent reports that it has advised state-owned companies in China and Russia and the monarchy of Saudi Arabia , and that it helped Trump 's Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency identify " detention savings opportunities , " including cuts to food and medical care for detainees . Under pressure from Elizabeth Warren and the Times editorial board , Buttigieg released a summary of his work at McKinsey , and then a list of clients , which included Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan , Best Buy , and the U.S. Postal Service . While working for another client , the Defense Department , in 2009 , he travelled to Iraq and Afghanistan as part of an economic-development project . <p> Buttigieg moved back to South Bend in 2007 , when he was twenty-five . It was time , he writes , to seek out " the things that mattered most . " Contemplating how few Harvard graduates now served in the military , he signed up for the Navy Reserve and began training as an intelligence officer . It can not have been lost on him that his service would be an asset for a political career . In 2010 , Buttigieg was the Democratic nominee for Indiana 's state treasurer and lost to the incumbent by more than twenty-four points , but two years later he ran in an open mayoral race and won with nearly seventy-four per cent of the vote . Buttigieg governed as a modernizer at a time when cities everywhere are modernizing . As mayor , he widened sidewalks , slowed down traffic , and used tax breaks to attract new businesses . " The idea was that a city could n't thrive without a heart , and that meant making the downtown and the city a place where people wanted to be , " Scott Ford , who helped lead the redevelopment effort , told me . By the most basic measure , Buttigieg 's administration was a success . The economy improved everywhere during his tenure , but it improved a bit more in South Bend , where the unemployment rate dropped from ten per cent to three and a half per cent , and a half-century-long decline in population began to reverse . <p> Buttigieg writes with palpable fondness about his time as mayor , but there are discordant notes : in particular , a pattern of friction with the black community , which makes up nearly a third of the city 's population . In the winter of 2012 , just weeks after Buttigieg 's inauguration , he learned that federal prosecutors were investigating South Bend 's first black police chief , Darryl Boykins , for recording the phone calls of white officers , who were said to be making racist remarks about Boykins and others . Buttigieg demoted the chief and hired a white replacement . A series of lawsuits followed , and Boykins , the white officers , and several others involved in the scandal received settlements from the city . As for Buttigieg , he has said that he can not listen to or release the tapes , citing continuing legal restrictions . " It was right after the murder of Trayvon Martin , and black people were stirred up all over the country , " the Reverend Michael Patton , a longtime South Bend pastor who now leads the city 's N.A.A.C.P. chapter , told me . " We had a lot of stuff that was going on that was affecting people 's emotions over a ninety-day period , and the Mayor did n't really seem to understand that context . " Three years later , Buttigieg , speaking about racial reconciliation , used the phrase " All lives matter " in his State of the City address . He explained this spring that he did not know at that time that the phrase " was coming to be viewed as a sort of counter-slogan to ' Black lives matter . ' " <p> In his first term , Buttigieg also clashed with housing activists over a plan to demolish or repair a thousand vacant homes in a thousand days , largely in black and Latino communities . " Some of those homes needed to be knocked down , " Oliver Davis , a South Bend city councilman who has endorsed Biden , told me . " But then you 've got to have a plan to build up those neighborhoods . " Several local officials and activists contested Buttigieg 's narrative of the city 's recovery , pointing out that black residents had not fared so well . The black poverty and black unemployment rates remain in the double digits . " He was not aware of how much animosity there is out in the community , " Jorden Giger , a Black Lives Matter activist in South Bend who supports Sanders , said . " When you finally see the faces at the bottom of the well , he 's not prepared for that -- he 's not prepared for that visceral reaction to his policies , because for so long he 's had people in his ear telling him that what he 's doing is good . " <p> Advertisement <p> Buttigieg 's memoir suggests that , during his years in South Bend , his technocratic persona softened . " A person aided by data can make fairer and smarter decisions , " he writes , " but only a person can sense when an unexplainable factor ought to come into play . " Midway through his first term , he was deployed to Afghanistan for seven months . As an intelligence analyst , he spent some of his time " behind a sophisticated computer terminal in a secure area , " but he also made dozens of dangerous forays in convoys into Kabul . Those assignments , he writes , " forced me to think about the cohesion , or lack thereof , in my life . " He had told a few friends that he was gay but feared " professional peril " if he came out . By his own account , the proximity to danger in Afghanistan intensified both his personal and his political ambitions . " I mean , you only get one turn at life , right ? " he said . " I think I always felt that way . I felt that way more once I got back from the deployment . " <p> Buttigieg came out to his parents in early 2015 , and to the public that summer , during his re ? lection campaign . He went on to win with more than eighty per cent of the vote , and he married Chasten in 2018 , in the Episcopal cathedral downtown . Anne Mannix , a doyenne of housing activists in South Bend , told me with some amazement about accompanying Buttigieg this year to the West Side Democratic and Civic Club 's Dyngus Day celebration , an all-day drinking fest in honor of Polish heritage . " And here are all these old Polish guys toasting Pete and Chasten -- the Mayor and his husband . " <p> In South Bend , Buttigieg was keeping up the Harvard connections that would help make his high ambitions seem plausible . Through his friend Eric Lesser , who was working in the Obama Administration , he met and impressed Obama 's chief strategist , David Axelrod , who introduced him to Lis Smith . His friend Swati Mylavarapu , a tech founder and investor who was with him at Harvard and Oxford , is his campaign 's investment chair . Another college friend reportedly introduced him to Mark Zuckerberg , who , with his wife , Priscilla Chan , recommended two people who were hired by the campaign . This past September , Buttigieg was asked to define neoliberalism on Twitter , and he replied , " Neoliberalism is the political-economic consensus that has governed the last forty years of policy in the US and UK . Its failure helped to produce the Trump moment . Now we have to replace it with something better . " Neoliberalism might also be defined as the political-economic consensus that allows Mark Zuckerberg to recommend campaign hires to Pete Buttigieg . <p> Some have recently observed that Buttigieg has left behind the politics of his father , the Marxist scholar , who died early this year . ( He tends to emphasize his father 's less ideological work , on James Joyce . ) " Centrist-child syndrome , " the writer Shuja Haider called it on the Web site the Outline . Buttigieg told me that his father had left a subtler imprint on him . " He was somebody who was impatient with some of the self-indulgence that had happened in the humanities as it drifted away from a connection to reality , " he said . " One of the books he loved was Edmund Wilson 's ' To the Finland Station , ' right ? Where you start off with , I think it 's Herder figuring out Vico " -- the German philosopher Johann Gottfried Herder and the Italian philosopher Giambattista Vico -- " and by the end you 've got Lenin showing up . The point is that you see how something that starts out really esoteric and academic ends up changing history . " He thought about it a little more . " But , also , there were times where I would push off from it , too , because he was so furious with what the right has done that you could -- you could spoil the taste of a wine for him by telling him it came from a right-wing vineyard . " Buttigieg smiled . " He was so deep in it . " <p> Buttigieg is often charged with being too young or too inexperienced for the Presidency . In fact , his candidacy poses a slightly different problem : he has not yet fully formed his political identity and , as a Presidential candidate , he is immature . When he was asked on the bus in New Hampshire about his experience , Buttigieg mentioned that he had bought a house before he 'd held down a steady job and had gone to war " before I had my first experience being in love . " He said , " I guess I 'm comfortable doing things in a way that 's kind of out of order . " <p> Buttigieg 's lack of connection with African-American voters , which began as a problem in South Bend , has become his campaign 's outstanding weak point . This past June , while he was in New York , a white South Bend police officer shot and killed a black man in his fifties named Eric Logan . Buttigieg rushed back and attended a public event , where Logan 's mother , Shirley Newbill , said to him , " I 've been here my whole life , and you all do n't do a damn thing about me or my son or none of these people out here . " At a fiery town hall a few days later , Buttigieg was shouted down as a " liar " and told , " We do n't trust you . " <p> I asked Buttigieg if he saw the potential for reconciliation between South Bend 's police force and its African-American community . " One thing that I do think animates all of this is a sense of the desire for safety , " he said . " That desire to come home safe is something we can all come back to . But it 's still such a gulf to try to bridge . " He had pressed the ejector button , but nothing had happened . Igor Rodriguez , a local forty-one-year-old Black Lives Matter activist , told me , " People in South Bend are tired of feeling silenced , and people in South Bend are tired of talking about Pete Buttigieg instead . This is a person who has built his career for over a year on talking about how he fixed everything in South Bend . " He added , " He really shot himself in the foot , because , guess what , we can talk , too . " <p> By Thanksgiving , voters in New Hampshire were asking Buttigieg about his failure to attract black supporters . His efforts at outreach often seemed ham-fisted or contrived , and they left a series of insults and mini-scandals in their wake . Late in October , McClatchy reported that Buttigieg 's polling firm had conducted focus groups with black voters in South Carolina and written a memo concluding that Buttigieg 's " being gay was a barrier for these voters , particularly for the men who seemed deeply uncomfortable even discussing it . " This was instantly interpreted as an effort to shift blame for Buttigieg 's failings with African-Americans to their supposed discomfort with gay rights . The campaign circulated a letter of support for its racial-justice plan , the Douglass Plan . Named after the abolitionist Frederick Douglass , it promises a wide range of criminal-justice reforms and education , jobs , health , and housing programs . The campaign 's letter had been signed by more than four hundred South Carolinians . But the online publication the Intercept found that nearly half the signatories were white , and spoke to one " signatory , " Johnnie Cordero , the chair of the South Carolina Democratic Party 's Black Caucus , who said that he had not consented to have his name attached . " It 's presumptuous to think you can come up with a plan for black America without hearing from black folk , " he said . " We 're tired of people telling us what we need . You wan na find out what we need ? Come and ask us . " ( The campaign later removed Cordero 's name from the letter . ) <p> Advertisement <p> In mid-November , Buttigieg spoke at the historically black Morehouse College , in downtown Atlanta , to about two hundred students . It was an earnest , tedious affair . Buttigieg uncorked his stump speech , to little effect . The Douglass Plan , he said , is " as ambitious as the Marshall Plan , but this time investing right here at home . " Such flourishes led to little audible response . In the spirit of Atlanta 's first black mayor , Maynard Jackson , he said , his Administration would set aside twenty-five per cent of federal contracts for minority-owned businesses . There was no applause . He offered his support for H.R. 40 , a bill before the House that would require the federal government to undertake a formal study of reparations for slavery . The idea just washed over the audience and out the back . <p> Buttigieg was n't bombing , exactly . But his instincts and ideas were not connecting with his audience . After the event , Ted Winn , a former Morehouse student , said that he liked the Mayor 's " pliability , " but that the reparations answer struck him as a cop-out . " That bill is just like a safe space for Democrats who wo n't go further , " he said . " You all have specific plans for health care and the economy . Why not for this ? " Christopher Jackson , a sophomore , said that he had been more impressed by Buttigieg than he expected , but that the plan to expand the Supreme Court sounded like " science fiction . " Jackson went on , " They say he 's a pragmatist , but then , on issues like the Court , he actually goes further than everyone else . " <p> The fifth Democratic debate was held two days later , at the Tyler Perry Studios in Atlanta , which are housed in a former military complex . The setting emphasized the relationship between the Party and its African-American base , and Buttigieg seemed determined to do better . It took a while for the debate to work its way around to Buttigieg , and to race , but when it did he turned from the idea of shared values to his own experience of marginalization . " While I do not have the experience of ever having been discriminated against because of the color of my skin , I do have the experience of sometimes feeling like a stranger in my own country , turning on the news and seeing my own rights come up for debate , " he said . " And seeing my rights expanded by a coalition of people like me and people not at all like me . " <p> For that night , perhaps , it was good enough . But if this was the message for the long run , it seemed less sturdy , in part because Buttigieg was applying the optimism of the most immediately successful civil-rights struggle in American history , the movement for gay marriage , to its most enduring and frequently betrayed one , the campaign for black equality . After Thanksgiving , Buttigieg toured the South again , trying to find the resonant chords . A new TV ad in South Carolina led with faith , featuring footage in which Buttigieg asked , " Whatever happened to ' I was hungry , and you fed me . I was a stranger and you welcomed me ' ? " On a visit to the new National Memorial for Peace and Justice , in Montgomery , Alabama , which honors victims of racial violence , he reflected that the memorial is " a reminder of the unspeakable harm done by white supremacy in this country . But it is also a reminder that things from hundreds of years ago and things going on today are all connected . " He spent Sunday , December 1st , in Goldsboro , North Carolina , at the church of the Reverend Dr. William Barber , the progressive civil-rights leader who is working to revive Martin Luther King , Jr. , ' s Poor People 's Campaign . When I talked to Barber a few days later , he praised Buttigieg 's willingness to speak directly about poverty : " He said the word ' poor , ' did n't play around with it . " <p> Buttigieg 's efforts to win over black voters were starting to seem a little like a kid fumbling with a Rubik 's Cube : he was going to do everything he could to solve the problem , and it probably was n't going to work . " Nothing operates in isolation , " Marc Morial , a former mayor of New Orleans and the president of the National Urban League , told me . " He starts with no track record in the African-American community on a national basis . You 've got black candidates in the race . You 've got Joe Biden , who 's got a Rolodex of relationships . Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders have been out there hustling for several years . For many African-American voters , familiarity breeds trust , because of the habit of many elected officials to promise extravagantly and deliver meagrely . " In Morial 's view , it will take Buttigieg more than a few months to win African-American votes . " He 's clearly working , " Morial said . " He 's a new figure who is certainly evolving . " <p> Buttigieg 's Democratic opponents sometimes accuse him of overcalculation . " He 's going by the old playbook of following the focus groups , going by what political consultants tell you , " the candidate Juli ? n Castro told the Times . But consultants , who have been the popular villains of politics for a generation , have less influence on this Presidential campaign than they have had in decades . Trump does not listen to his , and Warren does not even have a pollster . Buttigieg 's strategist only joined the campaign in May , when its character was already established . The language of strategy and messaging has shifted to the voters , who show up at events talking about grassroots donor strength and margins in purple counties . It now seems as if every informed voter has a position on what other people want . <p> Buttigieg 's increasing strength is not yet the story of the Democratic primary , but it has been an unexpected element , and it suggests that the calculations of the amateurs , in a time of stress , may not be so different from those of the pros : they favor a candidate with appeal to white swing voters over one who can draw out the African-American base , and for polish over populist fervor . And yet , as Buttigieg fairly noted , the race has hardly begun . " I suspect January will be its own , whole other level , " he said . We were riding in a black S.U.V. headed west through Iowa at dusk , on the Monday before Thanksgiving . " I think that those voters who still have n't really dialled in will start paying attention . The folks who are just too busy , too overwhelmed with the sheer number of candidates , will get into this , " he said . <p> It had been a well-planned day of campaigning , with four events leading up to a big evening rally in Council Bluffs . On Twitter , Buttigieg campaign volunteers were being mocked for videos of a dance they had choreographed to his campaign song , " High Hopes , " whose aroma of corporate marketing was made only more pungent by the fact that some of the videos showed high-energy young people teaching the dance to earnest older volunteers . In Red Oak , Iowa , in the morning , there had been a community forum on long-term care ; Buttigieg took notes while local practitioners gave a dire view of old age in rural America . Next was a stately lunchtime town hall for about three hundred people in Creston . At the end , a teen-ager whose best friend had killed herself earlier in the year asked about mental-health resources for schools . That allowed Buttigieg to take up a pretty natural role as a sort of guidance counsellor . " Sometimes we do n't talk about something like that , and we have to , " he said . <p> Advertisement <p> During the day , three people had told Buttigieg that they were Republicans , active or former , who were considering his candidacy . In the S.U.V. , he said to me , " You can tell a lot of Republicans ready to cross over did n't suddenly become liberal . They just feel that exhaustion from fighting . Which is why we 've got to make sure that our answer is not some kind of equal-and-opposite meanness . " Buttigieg posited that the economic alienation that was central to the 2016 Presidential election was now matched by a powerful political alienation -- a sense , he said , that " has people feeling like elections are n't fair , and having reason to feel that way when they see how districts are drawn , for example . I think it 's that question of how some policies can command so much support and get nowhere . " <p> Buttigieg often paused after a question , repeated some element of it that interested or puzzled him , stared off into space , and then answered . Even when he landed on talking points , these pauses allowed him to hint that he had considered a more original response . Buffering . Of course , one year into a Presidential campaign , his talking points inundated every conversational inlet . When I asked him about the " High Hopes " dance , he answered in the weirdly stentorian cadence of a movie-trailer voice-over : " In an age of exclusion , and amid a crisis of belonging , I actually believe that there 's a certain amount of moral lift to be found in goofy joy . " <p> It was dark enough outside the S.U.V. that we could not see past the road , creating a serene atmosphere inside . The four campaign aides travelling with us were quiet , perhaps in deference to the general demeanor of a politician whose way to relax on the road is , as he pointed out later that evening , to play board games with his husband . ( He recommended Risk . ) I asked about an aspect of his pitch that had always been opaque to me . If Trump was the President who ended the Reagan era , then what , exactly , was the era that would follow -- the one he was campaigning to begin ? " As you know , I 'm skeptical of nostalgia , " he said , making me wonder why he thought I knew that . " But a nontrivial part of what we 've got to do is establish a kind of social democracy , like we had pre-Reagan . The difference is , I think , that there has to be a lot more attention to our democratic structures and systems . Because we see how they have been manipulated for the purposes of frustrating a majority . " He was alluding to his plans for the Supreme Court and the Electoral College . " I think there needs to be an emphasis on political reform , the likes of which we probably have n't seen since -- maybe since the first Progressive Era . " <p> He mentioned a familiar trope , that there is a " new American majority " for ideas that a few years ago would have been considered too liberal for the mainstream -- for broad action on guns and climate change , for much steeper taxation of the rich , and for expanded health care . Warren and Sanders have built their campaigns around these issues , arguing that the main obstacle to progressive policies is the billionaire class -- who , they say , must pay for those policies through new wealth taxes and higher estate taxes . Buttigieg is not ideologically committed to developing new welfare programs -- he favors expanding Medicare and college-loan programs -- and he seems to believe that populist agitation is unnecessary . Of the new era , he said , " In many ways , it 's defined by the question of what happens when a minority becomes a majority . " I asked whether he meant a demographic minority . " Yes , " he said . " But also a political minority . " Unlike many Democrats , Buttigieg suggests that the traumas of the past decade are as much political as economic . What gives his campaign its peculiar mood , of optimism in the midst of an emergency , is his conviction that a progressive consensus is already present in the country , and that the way to spoil it is to be too partisan or unwelcoming -- that the change has already come . <p> We bundled out of the S.U.V. into the gymnasium of Abraham Lincoln High School , in Council Bluffs . A huge American flag was stretched across the back of the stage . Chairs had been set up in half of the gym . Those filled , and then more doors opened and a crowd poured into the other half of the gym and a small balcony above . There were twenty-one hundred people , and when a microphone malfunctioned during the warmup speeches they broke into a co ? rdinated chant : " I ! O ! W ! A ! Mayor Pete , all the way ! " <p> Onstage , Buttigieg was looser . The left shoulder slouched lower , more casually , and he occasionally broke into a toothy grin . The stump speech , usually a tightly wound twelve minutes , unfurled past fifteen . The jokes were the same , but he gave them an extra beat . The mood in the gym was a little giddy . Buttigieg welcomed " future former Republicans " and urged them to " join our movement , " a phrase that I had n't heard from him before . It was a somewhat surprising term for such a middle-of-the-road campaign , but it carried Buttigieg 's unusual note of dissent : his notion that , despite the populist tide , Democrats might still prefer a Presidential candidate who looks a lot like the ones they 've chosen in the past . ? <p> Published in the print edition of the December 23 , 2019 , issue , with the headline " High Hopes . " <p> Benjamin Wallace-Wells began contributing to The New Yorker in 2006 and joined the magazine as a staff writer in 2015 . He writes mainly about American politics and society . 
@@31536694 <h> A Timeline Of Key Jewish Moments From The 2010s <h> A highly subjective roundup of news stories and cultural moments from the past 10 years . <h> The Divisive Decade : When The Center Could n't Hold <p> The 2010s meant a lot of things to a lot of people , but we 've chosen to label the past 10 years " The Divisive Decade . " The bitter battle over the Iran nuclear deal was a Jewish communal watershed , and the election of Donald Trump has cleaved the community in ways that sometimes feel unfixable . <p> Even the decade 's terrifying rise of anti-Semitism , a call for unity if there ever was one , has divided Jews along ideological lines . Below is a timeline of some defining moments , and here is a special collection of essays where we asked writers to examine the key Jewish trends of the past 10 years , and ask how we might overcome this polarization. <h> 2010 <p> U.S. President Barack Obama ( R ) introduces Solicitor General Elena Kagan as his choice to be the nation 's 112th Supreme Court justice during an event in the East Room of the White House May 10 , 2010 in Washington , DC . Kagan was selected by Obama to replace retiring Justice John Paul Stevens . Getty Images <p> ? Rabbi Sholom Rubashkin is sentenced to 27 years in prison in connection with multiple charges at the now-defunct Agriprocessors kosher slaughtering plant . <p> ? The expanded National Museum of American Jewish History opens in Philadelphia . <p> ? Rabbi Adin Steinsaltz completes his massive translation of the Babylonian Talmud into modern Hebrew . <p> ? Elana Kagan becomes the third Jewish justice on the current Supreme Court . <h> 2011 <p> In this handout photo provided by the Israeli Defense Force , freed Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit ( 2nd R ) walks with Defence Minister Ehud Barak ( L ) , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu ( 2nd , L ) and IDF Chief of General Staff Benny Gantz ( R ) at Tel Nof Airbase on October 18 , 2011 in central Israel . Shalit was freed after being held captive for five years in Gaza by Hamas militants , in a deal which saw Israel releasing more than 1,000 Palestinian prisoners . ( Photo by IDF via Getty Images ) <p> ? Gilad Shalit , is released after being held captive by Hamas in Gaza for five years in exchange for releasing 1,027 prisoners in what is the largest prisoner exchange agreement Israel ever made . <h> 2012 <p> Aly Raisman of the United States on the Vault during training sessions for Artistic Gymnastics ahead of the 2012 Olympic Games at Greenwich Training Academy on July 26 , 2012 in London , England . Getty Images <h> 2014 <p> At the scene of an attack , by two Palestinians , on Israeli worshippers at a synagogue in the Har Nof neighborhood in Jerusalem on November 18 , 2014 . Two Palestinians armed with a gun and axes burst into a Jerusalem synagogue and killed four Israelis before being shot dead , in the deadliest attack in the city in years . Getty Images <p> ? Following the kidnap-murder of three Israeli teenagers , serious fighting flares up between Israel and Hamas forces in Gaza . <p> ? Six men -- including five Jewish worshippers and a Druze officer -- are killed during a terrorist attack at a synagogue in the Har Nof section of Jerusalem . <p> ? David Blatt , a veteran of pro basketball in Israel , is named head coach of the NBA 's Cleveland Cavaliers . <p> By signing up , you agree to our terms You hereby accept the Jewish Week Terms of Use and Privacy Policy , and you agree to receive the latest news &amp; offers from the Jewish Week and its partners or ad sponsors . 
@@82520896 <p> Here 's the latest for Monday December 30th : U.S. announces military strikes in Iraq and Syria ; North Korea 's Kim Jong Un calls for unspecified offensive ; Police : Armed parishioners kill Texas church gunman ; New York stabbing suspect pleads not guilty . <p> A man accused of attacking a Hannukah celebration in New York state pleaded not guilty to five counts of attempted murder and one count of burglary . Grafton E. Thomas was arrested within two hours of the attack . ( Dec. 30 ) <p> Japan has revised a roadmap for the tsunami-wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant cleanup , further delaying the removal of thousands of spent fuel units that remain in cooling pools since the 2011 disaster . ( Dec. 27 ) <p> Israel 's prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu was rushed off the stage of an election rally on Wednesday after sirens rang out , warning of a rocket attack from the Gaza Strip . Authorities confirmed that a defensive missile intercepted the rocket . ( Dec. 26 ) <p> Three adults were killed in an apparent murder-suicide on Christmas Eve while four young children were inside the home , authorities in Lakeland , Florida said . The children were safely removed from the home . 
@@82551794 <p> JERUSALEM - Israeli aircraft bombed several militants ' sites in Gaza early Sunday , hours after three rockets were fired from the Palestinian enclave toward southern Israel . <p> The military said in a statement the airstrikes targeted military camps and a naval base for Hamas , the Islamic militant group controlling Gaza . There were no immediate reports of casualties . <p> On Saturday evening , Israel announced that its air defenses , known as " Iron Dome , " had intercepted two of three missiles coming from Gaza . Later , it said all three rockets had been shot down . <p> No Palestinian group claimed responsibility for the rocket fire . The Israeli army said Hamas was responsible for any attack transpiring in Gaza . <p> Cross-border violence between Israel and Palestinian militants in Gaza has ebbed and flowed in recent years . Fighting last month was the most violent in months . <p> Leaders from Hamas and the smaller but more radical Islamic Jihad are in Cairo , talking with Egyptian officials about cementing a cease-fire that would see some economic incentives and easing of restrictions on Gaza . <p> Hamas has fought three wars with Israel since seizing Gaza in 2007 and dozens of shorter skirmishes . 
@@82575988 <h> Palestinians in Bethlehem look beyond religious tourism <p> 1of8FILE - in this Friday , March 3 , 2017 file photo , People pass by the " The Walled Off Hotel " and the Israeli security barrier the West Bank city of Bethlehem . As visitors descend on Bethlehem this Christmas , they have the option of staying in the restored centuries-old guesthouses , taking food tours of local markets and perusing the dystopian art in and around a hotel designed by the British graffiti artist Banksy . <p> 2of8In this Thursday , Dec. 5 , 2019 , photo , a Palestinian wearing a Santa Claus costumes welcomes Christian visitors outside the Church of the Nativity , traditionally believed by Christians to be the birthplace of Jesus Christ , in the West Bank city of Bethlehem . As visitors descend on Bethlehem this Christmas , they have the option of staying in restored centuries-old guesthouses , taking food tours of local markets , and perusing the dystopian art in and around a hotel designed by the British graffiti artist Banksy . <p> 3of8FILE - in this Friday , March 3 , 2017 file photo , a Banksy wall painting showing an Israeli border police officer and a Palestinian in a pillow fight dercorates one of the rooms of the The Walled Off Hotel in the West Bank city of Bethlehem . As visitors descend on Bethlehem this Christmas , they have the option of staying in restored centuries-old guesthouses , taking food tours of local markets , and perusing the dystopian art in and around a hotel designed by the British graffiti artist Banksy <p> 4of8In this Thursday , Dec. 5 , 2019 , photo , Christian visitors shop near the Church of the Nativity , traditionally believed by Christians to be the birthplace of Jesus Christ , in the West Bank city of Bethlehem . As visitors descend on Bethlehem this Christmas , they have the option of staying in restored centuries-old guesthouses , taking food tours of local markets , and perusing the dystopian art in and around a hotel designed by the British graffiti artist Banksy . <p> 5of8In this Thursday , Dec. 5 , 2019 , photo , a wooden figure is displayed in the Church of the Nativity , traditionally believed by Christians to be the birthplace of Jesus Christ , in the West Bank city of Bethlehem . As visitors descend on Bethlehem this Christmas , they have the option of staying in restored centuries-old guesthouses , taking food tours of local markets , and perusing the dystopian art in and around a hotel designed by the British graffiti artist Banksy . <p> 6of8In this Thursday , Dec. 5 , 2019 photo , Christian visitors gather outside the Church of the Nativity , traditionally believed by Christians to be the birthplace of Jesus Christ , in the West Bank city of Bethlehem . As visitors descend on Bethlehem this Christmas , they have the option of staying in restored centuries-old guesthouses , taking food tours of local markets , and perusing the dystopian art in and around a hotel designed by the British graffiti artist Banksy . <p> 7of8In this Thursday , Dec. 5 , 2019 photo , Christian visitors in the lobby of a hotel in the West Bank city of Bethlehem . As visitors descend on Bethlehem this Christmas , they have the option of staying in restored centuries-old guesthouses , taking food tours of local markets , and perusing the dystopian art in and around a hotel designed by the British graffiti artist Banksy . <p> 8of8In this Thursday , Dec. 5 , 2019 , photo , a Christian visitor takes a picture of a wooden relic believed to be from Jesus ' manger inside the Church of the Nativity , traditionally believed by Christians to be the birthplace of Jesus Christ , in the West Bank city of Bethlehem . As visitors descend on Bethlehem this Christmas , they have the option of staying in restored centuries-old guesthouses , taking food tours of local markets , and perusing the dystopian art in and around a hotel designed by the British graffiti artist Banksy . ( AP Photo/Majdi Mohammed= <p> BETHLEHEM , West Bank ( AP ) -- For decades , the people of Bethlehem have watched tour buses drive up to the Church of the Nativity , disgorge their passengers for a few hours at the traditional birthplace of Jesus , and then return to Israel . <p> But in recent years a new form of tourism has taken root , focused on the West Bank town 's Palestinian residents , their culture and history and their struggles under Israeli occupation . <p> As pilgrims descend on Bethlehem this Christmas , they have the option of staying in restored centuries-old guesthouses , taking food tours of local markets , and perusing the dystopian art in and around a hotel designed by the British graffiti artist Banksy . <p> The centerpiece of tourism , and the focus of Christmas celebrations in the coming weeks , is the 6th-century Church of the Nativity , built on the site where Jesus is believed to have been born in a manger . Extensive renovations in recent years have saved the roof from collapse and revealed colorful wall mosaics depicting angels and saints . <p> Earlier this month , the Vatican returned a small part of what Christians believe to be the original manger , which was sent to Rome as a gift to the pope in the 7th century . The thumb-sized relic , displayed in an ornate silver case , can be seen in a chapel adjoining the church . <p> In Manger Square , just outside the church , a massive Christmas tree has been set up and festivities are planned in the coming weeks as various denominations hold staggered Christmas celebrations . On Jan. 7 , Bethlehem will host an international Santa convention . <p> Tourism has suffered in the past during outbreaks of violence between Israel and the Palestinians . But the Palestinian Tourism Ministry expects 3.5 million visitors to Bethlehem in 2019 , up from 3 million the previous year , and many think there is still room for growth . <p> " The general situation in Palestine and the Holy Land is that there is very good security , better than most countries in the world , and so the people are visiting , " said Elias al-Arja , chairman of the local hotel association . <p> He noted that while the Holy Land includes the most important sites in Christianity , including the places where tradition says Christ was born , where he grew up , was crucified and resurrected , it attracts far fewer visitors than the Vatican . " We have the opportunity to draw more people , " he said . <p> Religious tourism is a boon for the local economy , but many Palestinians feel the city 's modern residents are largely ignored . <p> Israel captured the West Bank , along with east Jerusalem and the Gaza Strip , in the 1967 Middle East war . The Palestinians view the territories as part of their national homeland and hope to one day establish an independent state . <p> Visitors travelling to Bethlehem pass through a sprawling Israeli checkpoint and then drive along the separation wall , which Israel began building during the second Palestinian intifada , or uprising , in the early 2000s . Israel says the barrier is needed to prevent attacks , but the Palestinians view it as a land grab because its route places almost 10% of the West Bank on the Israeli side . Bethlehem itself is almost completely surrounded by the barrier and a string of Jewish settlements . <p> The town 's predicament is on vivid display in and around the Walled-Off Hotel , which was designed by Banksy and opened in 2017 . The hotel looks out on the separation wall , which itself is covered with artwork , graffiti and museum panels explaining life under occupation . Inside , a number of Banksy pieces are depicted in a haunting lobby , which this time of year is dimly lit with Christmas lights . <p> The hotel offers weekly performances by local musicians and daily tours of a nearby Palestinian refugee camp . Tours of Banksy 's public artwork elsewhere in the town can be organized on request . <p> A different form of alternative tourism , conceived by Palestinians themselves , can be found in the city center , just a few hundred meters ( yards ) from the church . There the municipality , with Italian aid , has restored an 18th-century guesthouse and rented it out to Fadi Kattan , a French Palestinian chef . <p> The Hosh Al-Syrian Guesthouse includes 12 tastefully furnished rooms ranging from $80-150 a night . At its Fawda Restaurant -- Arabic for chaos -- Kattan uses local ingredients to cook up traditional Palestinian cuisine with a modern twist . <p> Kattan is especially keen to promote Palestinian cuisine , which he says has been appropriated by Israeli chefs and food writers . As with nearly everything else having to do with the Middle East conflict , there are two sides : Israeli cuisine owes much to Jewish immigrants from ancient communities across the Middle East and North Africa . <p> The guesthouse partners with a local group known as Farayek to offer food tours in which visitors wander through the local market , meeting farmers , butchers and bakers before having lunch at the guesthouse . Another program includes cooking classes taught by a Palestinian grandmother . <p> " What I was hoping to achieve is to have people stay three nights in Bethlehem , to have people go to the fruit and vegetable market , to have people meet the people of Bethlehem , not just the very short tour into the city , " he said . <p> When the guesthouse opened in 2014 , the average stay was one night , but now it has risen to three and a half , with steady occupancy throughout the low season , Kattan said . <p> A handful of other restored guesthouses have also opened in recent years , including Dar al-Majus , Arabic for House of the Maji , named for the three kings said to have visited the manger after Christ was born . <p> The guesthouse is part of a wider initiative by the Franciscan Custody of the Holy Land and a local association to support the Christian community . Bethlehem 's Christian community , like others across the Middle East , has dramatically dwindled in recent decades as Christians have fled war and conflict or sought better economic opportunities abroad . <p> A local family living next to the guesthouse cooks breakfast and traditional meals for guests , and the guesthouse employs members of another two families . The guesthouse mostly supplies itself from the local market , and there are plans to expand to another restored house in the old quarter next year . 
@@82617497 <p> Here 's the latest for Monday December 30th : U.S. announces military strikes in Iraq and Syria ; North Korea 's Kim Jong Un calls for unspecified offensive ; Police : Armed parishioners kill Texas church gunman ; New York stabbing suspect pleads not guilty . <p> A man accused of attacking a Hannukah celebration in New York state pleaded not guilty to five counts of attempted murder and one count of burglary . Grafton E. Thomas was arrested within two hours of the attack . ( Dec. 30 ) <p> Japan has revised a roadmap for the tsunami-wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant cleanup , further delaying the removal of thousands of spent fuel units that remain in cooling pools since the 2011 disaster . ( Dec. 27 ) <p> Israel 's prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu was rushed off the stage of an election rally on Wednesday after sirens rang out , warning of a rocket attack from the Gaza Strip . Authorities confirmed that a defensive missile intercepted the rocket . ( Dec. 26 ) <p> Three adults were killed in an apparent murder-suicide on Christmas Eve while four young children were inside the home , authorities in Lakeland , Florida said . The children were safely removed from the home . ( Dec. 25 ) 
@@82764495 <h> Posted ! <h> Join the Conversation <h> Comments <p> Welcome to our new and improved comments , which are for subscribers only . This is a test to see whether we can improve the experience for you . You do not need a Facebook profile to participate . <p> You will need to register before adding a comment . Typed comments will be lost if you are not logged in . <p> Please be polite . It 's OK to disagree with someone 's ideas , but personal attacks , insults , threats , hate speech , advocating violence and other violations can result in a ban . If you see comments in violation of our community guidelines , please report them . <h> Researchers have found a possible mass grave in Tulsa . Could it be from the 1921 race massacre ? <p> Thanks in part to the suppression of news reports at the time , the massacre received little national attention until recently , History.com reports . <p> Now , after analyzing three possible sites of mass graves associated with the tragedy , Scott Hammerstedt , researcher at the Oklahoma Archeological Survey , University of Oklahoma , says that all three show ground abnormalities , but one in particular shows hallmarks of a mass grave . <p> The discovery could be an important step toward closure for victims ' families and may help experts better understand the scope of the tragedy , he told USA TODAY on Tuesday . An excavation will need to be performed to confirm the findings , but doing so requires official approval -- which could be months away . <p> " Travesty " is n't a strong enough word to describe the carnage , Hammerstedt said . Some locals believe many more people died than the number officials estimate , but it will be difficult to find a definitive answer , he said . <p> Most victims were buried during a period of martial law following the violence , Hammerstedt explained . With few official records , researchers must rely on oral history and witnesses to help identify locations where victims may be buried . <p> A December report details how Hammerstedt and his team analyzed several sites in Tulsa . Previously , experts warned the project faced multiple challenges -- the number of years that have passed makes identifying remains a challenge . <p> Despite being one of the worst race-related massacres in U.S. history , the incident received little recent national attention until being featured on HBO , Hammerstedt said . <p> Olivia Hooker , one of the last survivors of the massacre , recalled the massacre in a 2017 interview and spoke of Ku Klux Klan rioters : " They were furious when they came in our home and my mother was cooking and not running away . ... They took the food and dumped it in the mud and then they came back and took her nice flaky biscuits out of the oven and dumped them out on the dirt . ... We were hiding under the table where she put us and we could see all this ; well , it did n't astonish my older sister and brother because they knew about things . " <p> Hooker died in Nov. 2018 . She was among survivors who filed an unsuccessful federal lawsuit seeking reparations for one of the most horrific riots in U.S. history . <p> A Palestinian woman applies henneh herbal tattoo on the hand of a young girl during an exhibition of local traditional crafts , made by Palestinian women in Gaza City on Dec. 30 , 2019 . MOHAMMED ABED , AFP via Getty Images <p> A Country Fire Authority ( CFA ) firefighter at work at Clovemont Way in Bundoora , Melbourne , Australia on Dec. 30 , 2019 . According to local media reports , thousands of residents and tourists were forced to evacuate in the state of Victoria as soaring temperatures and winds fanned several bushfires around the state . JULIAN SMITH , EPA-EFE <p> Mourners follow a hearse as it leaves a memorial service for White Island volcano victims Anthony , Elizabeth and Winona Langford , at Marist College North Shore auditorium in Sydney , Australia on Dec. 30 , 2019 . At least seven people died after the White Island ( Whakaari ) volcano erupted on December 9 , 2019 . BIANCA DE MARCHI , EPA-EFE <p> A man rides motorbike loaded with joss paper products for sale in preparation for the Lunar New Year , or Tet holiday in Dao Tu village , in Bac Ninh , Vietnam on Dec. 30 , 2019 . Vietnamese people often burn joss paper , a papier-mache form of material items such as money , gold , houses , cars during Tet holiday to pray for their ancestors . LUONG THAI LINH , EPA-EFE 
@@82765093 <p> Here 's the latest for Monday December 30th : U.S. announces military strikes in Iraq and Syria ; North Korea 's Kim Jong Un calls for unspecified offensive ; Police : Armed parishioners kill Texas church gunman ; New York stabbing suspect pleads not guilty . <p> A man accused of attacking a Hannukah celebration in New York state pleaded not guilty to five counts of attempted murder and one count of burglary . Grafton E. Thomas was arrested within two hours of the attack . ( Dec. 30 ) <p> Japan has revised a roadmap for the tsunami-wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant cleanup , further delaying the removal of thousands of spent fuel units that remain in cooling pools since the 2011 disaster . ( Dec. 27 ) <p> Israel 's prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu was rushed off the stage of an election rally on Wednesday after sirens rang out , warning of a rocket attack from the Gaza Strip . Authorities confirmed that a defensive missile intercepted the rocket . ( Dec. 26 ) <p> Three adults were killed in an apparent murder-suicide on Christmas Eve while four young children were inside the home , authorities in Lakeland , Florida said . The children were safely removed from the home . ( Dec. 25 ) 
@@82767992 <p> Here 's the latest for Monday December 30th : U.S. announces military strikes in Iraq and Syria ; North Korea 's Kim Jong Un calls for unspecified offensive ; Police : Armed parishioners kill Texas church gunman ; New York stabbing suspect pleads not guilty . <p> A man accused of attacking a Hannukah celebration in New York state pleaded not guilty to five counts of attempted murder and one count of burglary . Grafton E. Thomas was arrested within two hours of the attack . ( Dec. 30 ) <p> Japan has revised a roadmap for the tsunami-wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant cleanup , further delaying the removal of thousands of spent fuel units that remain in cooling pools since the 2011 disaster . ( Dec. 27 ) <p> Israel 's prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu was rushed off the stage of an election rally on Wednesday after sirens rang out , warning of a rocket attack from the Gaza Strip . Authorities confirmed that a defensive missile intercepted the rocket . ( Dec. 26 ) <p> Three adults were killed in an apparent murder-suicide on Christmas Eve while four young children were inside the home , authorities in Lakeland , Florida said . The children were safely removed from the home . ( Dec. 25 ) 
@@82773099 <h> Posted ! <h> Join the Conversation <h> Comments <p> Welcome to our new and improved comments , which are for subscribers only . This is a test to see whether we can improve the experience for you . You do not need a Facebook profile to participate . <p> You will need to register before adding a comment . Typed comments will be lost if you are not logged in . <p> Please be polite . It 's OK to disagree with someone 's ideas , but personal attacks , insults , threats , hate speech , advocating violence and other violations can result in a ban . If you see comments in violation of our community guidelines , please report them . <p> Wawa customers who paid with credit or debit cards in the last nine months may have had their card information compromised , the convenience store chain announced Thursday . <p> In a letter dated Dec. 19 , the chain , which operates more than 850 stores in Delaware , Pennsylvania , Maryland , Virginia , New Jersey , Florida and Washington , D.C. , said its information security team " discovered malware on Wawa payment processing servers " on Dec. 10 . <p> By Dec. 12 , the malware was " contained , " and Wawa " immediately engaged a leading external forensics firm and notified law enforcement , " the letter said . <p> An existing Wawa . ( Photo : Courtesy of Wawa ) <p> " Wawa now understands that this malware began running at different points in time after March 4 , 2019 , " the letter said . " Wawa took immediate steps after discovering this malware and believes it no longer poses a risk to customers . " <p> Despite no longer posing a risk , anyone who used a credit or debit card at any Wawa store may have had their card number , expiration date and cardholder name stolen . The malware did not capture PIN numbers or CVV2 numbers , Wawa said . <p> Additionally , the ATM cash machines in Wawa stores were not impacted . <p> So far , Wawa said it is " not aware of any unauthorized use of any payment card information as a result of this incident . " <p> " At Wawa , the people who come through our doors are not just customers , they are our friends and neighbors , and nothing is more important than honoring and protecting their trust , " Gheysens said . " I want to reassure anyone impacted they will not be responsible for fraudulent charges related to this incident . " <p> Wawa will offer free identity protection and credit monitoring in light of the data breach , the letter said . Information to register for services can be found online . <p> A Palestinian woman applies henneh herbal tattoo on the hand of a young girl during an exhibition of local traditional crafts , made by Palestinian women in Gaza City on Dec. 30 , 2019 . MOHAMMED ABED , AFP via Getty Images <p> A Country Fire Authority ( CFA ) firefighter at work at Clovemont Way in Bundoora , Melbourne , Australia on Dec. 30 , 2019 . According to local media reports , thousands of residents and tourists were forced to evacuate in the state of Victoria as soaring temperatures and winds fanned several bushfires around the state . JULIAN SMITH , EPA-EFE <p> Mourners follow a hearse as it leaves a memorial service for White Island volcano victims Anthony , Elizabeth and Winona Langford , at Marist College North Shore auditorium in Sydney , Australia on Dec. 30 , 2019 . At least seven people died after the White Island ( Whakaari ) volcano erupted on December 9 , 2019 . BIANCA DE MARCHI , EPA-EFE <p> A man rides motorbike loaded with joss paper products for sale in preparation for the Lunar New Year , or Tet holiday in Dao Tu village , in Bac Ninh , Vietnam on Dec. 30 , 2019 . Vietnamese people often burn joss paper , a papier-mache form of material items such as money , gold , houses , cars during Tet holiday to pray for their ancestors . LUONG THAI LINH , EPA-EFE 
@@82826398 <h> Gov't Allocates Millions for Gaza Border , Arab Sector Security <p> Streaks of light are pictured as rockets are launched from the Gaza Strip towards Israel , as seen from Ashkelon May 4 . ( Reuters/Amir Cohen ) <p> Some 4,500 Gaza Arabs rioted along the border fence on Friday , throwing dozens of firebombs at IDF vehicles and soldiers . One firebomb hit a jeep and caused damage . No soldiers were injured . Several Arabs attempted to break through the fence to the Israeli side , with soldiers using antiriot methods to repel them . <p> The government on Sunday authorized the transfer of an additional NIS 5 million for security needs in Gaza border towns . The money is to be used for increasing security patrols , construction of new secure bus stations and public spaces , and general defense purposes . <p> An additional NIS 3 million has been allocated specifically for security measures in Ashkelon . Commenting on the allocation , Interior Minister Aryeh Deri said that " residents of Gaza border communities deal with terror on a daily basis , and are eligible for assistance in strengthening the security of their towns . We in the government salute residents of the region and we will do everything possible to ensure that they can live in full security . " <p> Also authorized Sunday was an allocation of NIS 10 million for additional police in the Arab sector . The money will be used to hire new officers , as well as to enhance equipment and acquire new communication and photography equipment to enable police to do their job more effectively . <p> Finance Minister Moshe Kahlon said that " preventing violence in the Arab sector is a goal of the government , and is a high priority for all of us . The allocation approved today is one step forward in the uncompromising fight against violence committed against 
@@82828693 <h> Will Israel 's New F-35 Be Used Against Iran 's Cruise Missile Threat ? <p> The F-35 radar is the most advanced for fighter jets , according to F-35 developer Lockheed Martin . " It enables the F-35 to be capable of identifying and intercepting airborne threats flying at a low altitude and at high speeds , " a company spokesman said on December 18 . That 's important considering the emerging threats Israel now faces from Iran and Iranian-backed groups such as Hezbollah which are seeking precision guidance for their rocket arsenal . Iran is accused of using cruise missiles to attack Saudi Arabia in September . The F-35 's radar can play a role in neutralizing these kinds of threats . <p> Gary North , vice-president for customer requirements for Lockheed Martin says that the F-35 AN/APG-81 AESA radar can enable the interception of low altitude airborne threats . The radar is a key element of the F-35 supplied by Northrop Grumman . It is an active electronically scanned array that provides situational awareness and a view of the battlespace . " The electronically scanned nature of the AESA allows it to quickly scan any direction , compared to a mechanically scanned radar , " Avionics Internationalnotes . It sponges up data and enables the F-35 to perform its mission in combination with all the other technology and data links that fifth-generation militaries are using today . Missile Defense Reviewnoted in early 2019 that the F-35 can " track and destroy adversary cruise missiles " and pointed out the aircraft will have other missile defense capabilities . <p> Israel modified its F-35 Adir to confront unique threats the country faces and to meet its needs . Low altitude and precision-guided missiles are one of the threats Israel deals with , although scanning for such threats is not usually the job of warplanes like the F-35 . Israel has a sophisticated multi-layered air defense , such as the Iron Dome and David 's Sling that it uses to confront rocket threats . In the last two years , more than 2,600 rockets have been fired from Gaza at Israel and Iranian IRGC networks in Syria have fired rockets and attacked Israel with drones at least five times since February 2018 . <p> Israel 's F-35s have been operational since December 2017 and by the summer of 2019 , it had received 16 of the 50 it will receive by 2024 . Israel has been supplanting the F-35s it received with its other warplanes , including the F-15s which Israel has modified in the past , which also has advanced radar . These include the F-15Ds and F-15Is Israel has in its air force . Indigenous upgrades have always been Israel 's forte . It upgraded its older F-15s in the past , concentrating on better radar , data link and electronic warfare suites . Spotting low-flying cruise missiles has been an issue that radar designers have sought to confront over the last decades . However , if the F-35 is used against cruise missiles by itself it might need to carry munitions externally that negate its stealth externally , one report indicates ; an added reason that using it in combination with other aircraft or systems can maximize the capabilities of each . <p> A paper on the 2019 Military Balance by the International Institute for Strategic Studies noted that UAVs with reduced radar-signature and " precision-guided munitions and land-attack cruise missiles ( LACMs ) , " are one of many challenges for the " traditional target set , " countries face . Israel is taking note of the threat , especially amid the proliferation of Iran 's cruise missiles and Tehran 's frequent military drills with both cruise missiles , ballistic missiles and drones . Iranian designed cruise missiles and loitering munitions , often called suicide drones , have been used by the Houthi rebels against Saudi Arabia . Iran has tested an anti-ship cruise missile and claims one of its cruise missiles has a 2,000 km range . <p> According to an investigation of the Abqaiq attack Washington has assessed that the drones and cruise missiles came from the north of Abqaiq , traveling some 200km northwest of the target . Israel 's challenge in the face of similar threats is a problem that the US has looked at in the past . In 2015 the Pentagon was reportedly seeking a cruise missile shield that would include radar that enables F-16s to shoot down the missiles . The F-35 now can also detect the infrared signature of missiles , including ballistic missiles . Its full capabilities , or whether using it as part of a missile defense system is worthwhile , is still being debated in the U.S. <p> Israel 's F-35 is operating in the region and Israel 's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has warned Iran that the planes can reach whatever targets they need to . A photo of an F-35 flying over Beirut was released in 2018 . Israel 's Air Force has been increasingly active against Iranian forces in Syria in recent months . Israel 's new Defense Minister Naftali Bennett has said he will turn Syria into Iran 's Vietnam , and Iran 's forces will sink in the sands of Syria 's desert . So far Iran has n't fired precision munitions or cruise missiles from Syria , but reports indicate that it is trafficking ballistic missiles to Iraq and aiding Hezbollah to upgrade the precision of its missiles . <p> Confronting this multiplicity of threats is a challenge Israel has confronted in the last years . If it has to go up against a complex Iranian attack the F-35 will play a key role . <p> Seth J. Frantzman is a Jerusalem-based journalist who holds a Ph.D . from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem . He is the executive director of the Middle East Center for Reporting and Analysis and a writing fellow at the Middle East Forum . He is the author of After ISIS : America , Iran and the Struggle for the Middle East ( forthcoming Gefen Publishing ) . Follow him on Twitter at@sfrantzman. 
@@82834693 <p> JERUSALEM ( AP ) -- Israel announced on Sunday that it will allow Christians in the Gaza Strip to travel to Jerusalem and the West Bank for Christmas . <p> Until its notice just two days before the holiday , it was unclear whether Israel would grant permits to members of Gaza 's tiny Christian community to leave the Hamas-ruled coastal territory . <p> COGAT , the Israeli defense body responsible for Palestinian civil affairs , said the permits would be issued " in accordance with security assessments and without regard to age . " <p> COGAT had earlier said that Israel had not yet decided whether to issue the permits en masse and was considering individual permit requests . COGAT said it also was allowing 100 Christians from Gaza to travel abroad . <p> In previous years , Israel has granted travel permits to large numbers of Gaza Christians to visit religious sites and spend time with family in Israel and the West Bank . <p> About 1,000 Christians live in Gaza , a tiny fraction of the territory 's 2 million people . Most are Greek Orthodox , with Catholics making up about a quarter of the small community . <p> While the ruling Islamic militant Hamas movement considers the Christians a protected minority , they have been targeted over the years by Islamic zealots . The Christian community has greatly dwindled since Hamas took power in 2007 , with large numbers emigrating to flee conflict and difficult living conditions . <p> Israel and Egypt have maintained a tight blockade over Gaza since the Hamas takeover . Residents require permits to leave the territory . 
@@82838595 <h> Israel decides all discussions about ICC issue are confidential <h> The discussions will be held in the security cabinet . A special discussion will be held this afternoon at the Foreign Ministry . <p> Prime Minster and Defense Minister Benjamin Netanyahu speaks to the security cabinet after convening it to discuss Gaza rockets fired at Tel Aviv <p> ( photo credit : ARIEL HERMONI / DEFENSE MINISTRY ) <p> The Israeli government decided to approve a request by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to make all discussions about a recent statement by the International Criminal Court saying that the court wants to investigate Israel for war crimes confidential , according to section 35 of Israel 's Basic Law . <p> Section 35 states that " debates and decisions of the Government and those of the Ministerial committees regarding " certain matters " are secret and their disclosure and publication is prohibited . " <p> The Basic Law allows for the government to implement section 45 on " matters regarding which the Government deems secrecy to be essential to the State , a notification thereof having been declared in an order , for the purposes of this law " and matters " that the Government has decided to keep secret ; the disclosure and publication of such matters is forbidden only to persons who were aware of the decision . " <p> The discussions about the ICC statement will be held within the security cabinet . A special discussion will be held this afternoon at the Foreign Ministry . <p> The ICC intends to open a war crimes investigation into Israeli and Palestinian actions in Gaza , east Jerusalem and the West Bank beginning from June 13 , 2014 . If the case moves to the trial stage , then the court could issue arrest warrants against high-level Israelis and Palestinians . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@82853589 <p> A man accused of attacking a Hannukah celebration in New York state pleaded not guilty to five counts of attempted murder and one count of burglary . Grafton E. Thomas was arrested within two hours of the attack . ( Dec. 30 ) <p> An Iranian-backed militia says the death toll from U.S. military strikes in Iraq and Syria against its fighters had risen to 25 , and vowed to exact revenge . The Associated Press viewed the aftermath of airstrikes in western Iraq . ( Dec. 30 ) <p> Japan has revised a roadmap for the tsunami-wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant cleanup , further delaying the removal of thousands of spent fuel units that remain in cooling pools since the 2011 disaster . ( Dec. 27 ) <p> Israel 's prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu was rushed off the stage of an election rally on Wednesday after sirens rang out , warning of a rocket attack from the Gaza Strip . Authorities confirmed that a defensive missile intercepted the rocket . ( Dec. 26 ) <p> Three adults were killed in an apparent murder-suicide on Christmas Eve while four young children were inside the home , authorities in Lakeland , Florida said . The children were safely removed from the home . ( Dec. 25 ) 
@@82860599 <p> The UN 's anti-racism panel will launch an investigation into whether Israeli policies promote apartheid in the occupied Palestinian territories . <p> SHOW TRANSCRIPT <p> The UN Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination , or CERD , will launch an investigation into whether Israel is promoting apartheid in the occupied Palestinian territories . <p> The Palestinian Authority filed the official complaint with CERD last year over what it says are Israel 's discriminatory policies in the West Bank and Gaza . The PA and Israel are both parties to the UN 's anti-racism convention , but it 's reportedly the first time a member has lodged a report against another . <p> Israel , though , does not recognize the PA 's membership . And because of that , a UN legal adviser had previously argued that the case was outside CERD 's jurisdiction . <p> But two weeks ago , CERD decided to move forward with the complaint , and it will now begin a process of conciliation between the PA and Israel . Israeli officials , however , are reportedly undecided over whether they will participate . <p> Under international law , Israel 's ongoing occupation of the Palestinian territories is illegal . Earlier this month , the International Criminal Court 's chief prosecutor said there was a " reasonable basis " to investigate alleged Israeli war crimes stemming from Israel 's 2014 offensive in Gaza . The chief prosecutor said charges could also be brought against Hamas and Palestinian armed groups . <p> Israel , however , is not a member of the ICC and has dismissed the war court 's jurisdiction 
@@82885691 <h> WATCH : UN Ambassadors Witness Terror Tunnel and Iron Dome ! <h> WATCH : UN Ambassadors Witness Terror Tunnel and Iron Dome ! <h> Related : <p> Israel 's envoy to the UN Danny Danon recently took a delegation of fellow ambassadors to the Gaza border , to see Hamas ' terror infrastructure first hand . <p> UN ambassadors from around the world visited the Gaza belt with Israeli envoy Danny Danon . He showed them an actual Hamas terror tunnel discovered by the IDF before it could be used to harm Israeli civilians . Watch this INCREDIBLE diplomatic achievement for Israel ! <p> The delegation included ambassadors from Guatemala , Paraguay , Poland , Ethiopia , Romania , Ukraine , Estonia , and the Czech Republic , among other nations . Danon also brought the UN delegation to an Iron Dome battery in Netivot . <p> While the UN consistently pursues an anti-Israel agenda , ambassadors from member states are not afraid to confront the truth about Palestinian terror , which threatens Israelis on a daily basis . <h> Keep Israeli Soldiers Warm this Winter - Send Care Packages ! <p> We are honored to thank the young men and women of the IDF who risk their lives every day to defend the citizens of Israel . <p> Join us in sending winter care packages and personal notes of support to Israeli soldiers who are out in the 
@@82904999 <p> A man accused of attacking a Hannukah celebration in New York state pleaded not guilty to five counts of attempted murder and one count of burglary . Grafton E. Thomas was arrested within two hours of the attack . ( Dec. 30 ) <p> An Iranian-backed militia says the death toll from U.S. military strikes in Iraq and Syria against its fighters had risen to 25 , and vowed to exact revenge . The Associated Press viewed the aftermath of airstrikes in western Iraq . ( Dec. 30 ) <p> Japan has revised a roadmap for the tsunami-wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant cleanup , further delaying the removal of thousands of spent fuel units that remain in cooling pools since the 2011 disaster . ( Dec. 27 ) <p> Israel 's prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu was rushed off the stage of an election rally on Wednesday after sirens rang out , warning of a rocket attack from the Gaza Strip . Authorities confirmed that a defensive missile intercepted the rocket . ( Dec. 26 ) <p> Three adults were killed in an apparent murder-suicide on Christmas Eve while four young children were inside the home , authorities in Lakeland , Florida said . The children were safely removed from the home . ( Dec. 25 ) 
@@82905991 <p> A man accused of attacking a Hannukah celebration in New York state pleaded not guilty to five counts of attempted murder and one count of burglary . Grafton E. Thomas was arrested within two hours of the attack . ( Dec. 30 ) <p> An Iranian-backed militia says the death toll from U.S. military strikes in Iraq and Syria against its fighters had risen to 25 , and vowed to exact revenge . The Associated Press viewed the aftermath of airstrikes in western Iraq . ( Dec. 30 ) <p> Japan has revised a roadmap for the tsunami-wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant cleanup , further delaying the removal of thousands of spent fuel units that remain in cooling pools since the 2011 disaster . ( Dec. 27 ) <p> Israel 's prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu was rushed off the stage of an election rally on Wednesday after sirens rang out , warning of a rocket attack from the Gaza Strip . Authorities confirmed that a defensive missile intercepted the rocket . ( Dec. 26 ) <p> Three adults were killed in an apparent murder-suicide on Christmas Eve while four young children were inside the home , authorities in Lakeland , Florida said . The children were safely removed from the home . 
