@@51235397 <h> When it Comes to Israel , Alexandre Trudeau 's Got it Wrong <h> In the face of international condemnation of Iran 's destructive pursuit of nuclear weapons and its repeated calls for Israel 's destruction , filmmaker Alexandre Trudeau reports that Iran 's atomic ambitions are for " defensive " purposes only , serving as an effective " deterrent " against Israeli " aggression " and belligerence . That is at least the way Trudeau framed the second instalment of his three-part documentary that aired on CBC 's The National on October 14 . <p> Getty ImagesJERUSALEM , ISRAEL - APRIL 21 : ( ISRAEL OUT ) Thousands of Israelis attend the Annual Cohanim prayer , or Priest 's blessing , for the Pesach ( Passover ) holiday , on April 21 , 2011. at the Western Wall in Jerusalem 's old city . Thousands of Jews make the pilgrimage to Jerusalem during Pesach , which commemorates the Israelites ' exodus from Egypt some 3,500 years ago . ( Photo by Uriel Sinai/Getty Images ) <p> UPDATE : Also listed in Alexandre Trudeau 's documentary " The New Great Game " as " producers in association , " but not acknowledged by the CBC , was Iran 's state-funded propaganda arm Press-TV , along with the reviled anti-Israel broadcaster Al-Jazeera Arabic , and the Media Education Foundation ( producer of the anti-Israel film " Peace , Propaganda , and the Promised Land " found by CBC Radio-Canada 's ombudsman to be propaganda that never should have aired ) . CBC appearing alongside Iran 's hateful mouthpiece is damning enough . Did any of these producers provide financial , facilitation , or material support to this film that the CBC aired on national airwaves ? Either way , CBC did n't disclose this matter to its viewing audience . <p> In the face of international condemnation of Iran 's destructive pursuit of nuclear weapons and its repeated calls for Israel 's destruction , filmmaker Alexandre Trudeau , son of the late Canadian prime minister Pierre Trudeau and senior advisor to his brother Justin 's campaign team for leadership of the Liberal party , reports that Iran 's atomic ambitions are for " defensive " purposes only , serving as an effective " deterrent " against Israeli " aggression " and belligerence . That is at least the way Trudeau framed the second instalment of his three-part documentary that aired on CBC 's The National on October 14 . <p> Entitled The New Great Game , CBC lauded Trudeau 's film as a " special documentary for The National , " with the film 's proprietors and distributors listing CBC and its French counterpart SRC , as producers " in association . " Trudeau 's point-of-view documentary was described as investigating " how the movement of oil is shaping a new world order . " In reality , the only thing " special " about this film was how it singled Israel out for exclusive opprobrium while downplaying the grievous threat that a nuclear Iran poses to the Jewish state , the U.S. , and the world . <p> Trudeau did not mince words when it came to presenting Israel as a bellicose nuclear-armed threat when he remarked : <p> " While there is no proof that Iran has even made the decision to start a nuclear arms program . Israel 's nuclear arsenal will largely out-gun whatever weapons Iran might acquire , but from the vantage point of Iran , it is the one being threatened not the one doing the threatening . " <p> Despite Trudeau 's contentions , it 's been recently reported that the UN atomic agency has received new and significant intelligence that Iran has moved further toward the ability to build a nuclear weapon . According to the Jerusalem Post , the IAEA has reported seeing " activity at Iran 's Parchin military site , an apparent reference to suspected efforts by Iran to clean the site of any illicit operation . " Trudeau also conveniently failed to mention that Iran continues to deny IAEA inspector 's access to its nuclear sites . <p> Irrespective of whether or not Israel possesses nuclear weapons ( a matter which Trudeau claims he has conclusive proof of despite Israel 's policy of " nuclear ambiguity " ) it 's simply absurd to equate democratic Israel with the terror-supporting , Holocaust-denying theocratic Iranian regime . Israel has never tested , used or threatened the use of nuclear weapons , has called for the creation of a nuclear-free zone in the Middle East and has stated many times that it will not be the first state to introduce nuclear weapons into the region . Israel never signed the non-proliferation treaty , whereas Iran is bound to its conventions as a signatory . <p> Importantly , Iran 's leadership continues to incite genocide in its calls for Israel 's annihilation with President Ahmadinejad declaring recently that " The very existence of the Zionist regime is an insult to humanity " and Supreme Leader Ayatollah Khamenei proclaiming that Israel would " disappear from the geographical landscape . " <p> Not to be outdone , Iran 's Foreign Minister recently described Israel as " a malignant tumour . " Iran 's bellicose statements were never mentioned in this hour-long film . Trudeau would have you believe that it is Israel that wants to " wipe Iran off the map " and not the other way around . <p> Trudeau continued to perpetuate Iranian victimhood and to present Israel as the aggressor by interviewing renowned anti-Israel activist Noam Chomsky who claimed that Iran 's " strategic doctrine is defensive ... What country in the world could have a greater need for a deterrence ? " <p> Trudeau then stated the following in voice-over narration : <p> " Lacking the ultimate deterrent of nuclear weapons , Iran only has conventional forces to defend itself against an attack . Iran could respond by firing missiles at Israel or it could target Hormuz . Mines and fast boats fitted with rockets could be deployed to sink oil tankers and the waters where the progress started its journey would quickly become a battlefield , the flow of oil would be stopped . " <p> Trudeau seemed to be implying that Iran needs nuclear weapons only as a means to bolster its weak national security infrastructure . <p> Trudeau 's film was further marred as it featured a chorus of hostile anti-Israel extremists well known for their virulent disdain of the Jewish state to support his argumentation . His contention that his interview sources were expert-based was entirely misleading . Trudeau happily trotted out Zbigniew Brzezinski , a former national security advisor under the Carter administration , well-known for his anti-Israel statements . <p> He also interviewed Chas Freeman of the Middle East Policy Council ( MEPC ) who framed Israel as a hostile and gross human rights violator . Freeman made the following inflammatory statement that Trudeau let go unchallenged : " The question that many Arab public 's pose is how can you cooperate with the United States when it is so firmly supportive of Israel , and Israel is humiliating and even killing such a large number of Arabs . " <p> Unbeknownst to CBC viewers , Freeman , a former U.S. ambassador to Saudi Arabia , has been described as having an " irrational hatred of Israel " and for being a " mouthpiece for Saudi Arabia " in exchange for money from the Saudi royal family . Freeman courted controversy in 2009 when news broke that he was being nominated for the top U.S. intelligence position at the National Intelligence Council . The New York Times chronicled scores of incendiary statements he made against Israel prompting Jewish and pro-Israel groups to call on the White House to reconsider his candidacy . Freeman later withdrew his name from consideration citing a campaign orchestrated by " the Israel lobby . " <p> Apart from featuring a cavalcade of tainted interview sources , Trudeau 's true colours came out when he made the following statement with file footage of Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu in the background to reinforce his argument : " Israeli threats ( against Iran ) are a ploy to distract the world from its Arab problems ... " For Trudeau , Israel is not facing imminent annihilation from weapons of mass destruction , Israeli pronouncements are a weapon of mass distraction , a ruse to divert the world 's attention away from the Arab problems which this filmmaker seems to believe is of Israel 's own making . <p> This is n't Trudeau 's first offense . In 2004 , he produced The Fence a totally unbalanced view of life on the Israeli and Arab sides of Israel 's security barrier favouring the Palestinian narrative . In the same production he profiled Zakaria Zubeidi , then leader of the terrorist group Al Aqsa Martyrs Brigades portraying him as a Robin Hood-like " leader of the resistance . " He never once told viewers that Zubeidi 's organization had murdered Arabs , Israeli Jews and foreigners , including a Canadian citizen killed in a bus bombing . Trudeau is also known for his offering public praise for Fidel Castro and for his criticism of the Israeli naval blockade of the Hamas-held Gaza Strip . <p> CBC 's journalism codes permit " compelling " point of view documentaries provided " the creator has special knowledge , expertise ... " That the CBC felt that this production was either " compelling , " or that Trudeau had " special knowledge " and " expertise " reflects poor editorial decisions made by senior editors of CBC 's flagship news program The National and showed a remarkable lack of judgement in airing his Iranian apologist film . In so doing , CBC viewers were misled into believing that Israel , not Iran , is the real international pariah , aggressor , and nuclear global menace . 
@@51242857 <h> Israeli Apartheid Week beats back attacks on free speech <p> Despite intense government and media attacks , Israeli Apartheid Week was a big success this year . The annual student-based week of lectures and film showings , held March 1-8 in 13 cities across Canada , was marked by packed halls and respectful , attentive and passionate debate . Attendance at daily events peaked at 500 in Toronto and Ottawa , and 400 in Montreal . <p> As in previous years , Israeli Apartheid Week in Canada included presentations by indigenous leaders on their liberation struggle in this country . Internationally , Israeli Apartheid Week events were held in more than 40 cities , double last year 's total . The favourable response showed that understanding of Israeli Apartheid has been deepened by Israel 's brutal assault on Gaza in December , in which 1,300 Palestinians were massacred . <p> The word " apartheid , " first utilized by the white-supremacist regime in South Africa , accurately describes Israeli occupation of the West Bank and Gaza , which steals Palestinian land while enclosing the Palestinian people in walled Bantustans . It also applies to the systemic discrimination against Palestinians inside Israel and to that country 's defiance of United Nations resolutions providing for the return of Palestinian refugees . <p> Global movement for boycott , divestment and sanctions <p> Israeli Apartheid Week supports the international campaign for boycott , divestments and sanctions against apartheid Israel , launched in 2005 by more than 170 Palestinian civil society organizations . <p> The campaign demands an end to Israeli occupation of Arab lands , equal rights for Palestinian citizens of Israel and the right of return for all Palestinian refugees as stipulated in United Nations resolution 194 . <p> Government intimidation <p> Despite the success of Israeli Apartheid Week , we must not underestimate the gravity of the government-led attacks on the event , which aimed not merely to discredit it but to prevent it from taking place . <p> Speaking in the House of Commons March 3 , Jason Kenney , Minister of Citizenship , Immigration , and Multiculturalism , gave lip-service to the principle that " Canadians are free to express different views about the policies of foreign government , " but insisted that " Israel Apartheid Week is not about that . ... We condemn these efforts to single out and attack the Jewish people and their homeland . " His clear implication was that these events --which are in fact free of even the slightest hint of hostility to Jews --- are in violation of Canada 's laws against " hate propaganda . " <p> Opposition leader Michael Ignatieff quickly joined in . Israeli Apartheid Week " goes beyond reasonable criticism , " he stated , because it " singles out one state , its citizens and its supporters for condemnation and exclusion . " ( National Post , March 5 , 2009 ) <p> Both Kenney and Ignatieff claimed that the event victimizes Jewish students , who are therefore " feeling increasingly vulnerable " ( Kenney ) and " wary of expressing their opinions , for fear of intimidation " ( Ignatieff ) . <p> The attacks on Israeli Apartheid Week are part of a wider campaign of government reprisals against critics of Israel . Kenney has assailed the Ontario Canadian Union of Public Employees for a pro-Palestinian resolution that he said " may have helped spark " a supposed incident where " anti-Israel slogans were shouted at Jewish students . " ( Globe and Mail , February 24 ) And , in response to criticism from Canadian Arab Federation President Khaled Mouammar , Kenney threatened to withdraw $447,000 in funding for CAF projects that teach English and provide job skills . ( Sun Media , February 17 ) <p> Unfounded charges <p> The government 's claims that students have been intimidated encourages universities to crack down on Palestinian advocacy . A pretext for this repression is provided by lurid and fabricated media reports about campus harassment of Jews . <p> Take for example , a pro-Palestine demonstration at York University in Toronto February 11 . Following the action , a York student paper published a critical report by Jonathan Blake Karoly that cited only one incident viewed as offensive : a pro-Palestinian student had pulled his Keffiyah scarf up to his cover nose and mouth . Karoly termed that action " tantamount to racism and discrimination . " <p> When the story was repeated by the Jewish Telegraphic Agency later that day , other unattributed quotes were added , such as : " Die bitch , go back to Israel . " Then , the Ottawa Citizen reported that Jewish students had been " held captive " ; people were " banging on walls and screaming things like ' death to the Jews . ' " <p> On February 14 , advertisements paid for by B'nai Brith , a prominent defender of Israeli policy , declared that " there have been documented cases of assaults on Jewish students , " to which police forces " all too often turn a blind eye . " <p> It is hardly surprising , in this atmosphere , that the National Post could report as fact that " a Jewish student was physically assaulted " at York even though the reporter admitted that he had not been able to verify that the incident at all . That , he said , was " immaterial , " because students feel " it could happen . " <p> The Big Lie <p> The media have published many such charges -- always without names or direct quotations . Opponents of pro-Palestinian protests have filmed them extensively and produced many videos , without recording a single incriminating statement or action . <p> When 15,000 people gather for a demonstration , it is always possible for a couple of individuals -- possibly right-wing or police plants -- to act irresponsibly in front of a video camera . Yet nothing like that was recorded . <p> One of the right-wing videos , entitled " Peace on Campus , " found nothing better to display than standard images of political controversy -- heated discussions , demonstrations , waving flags -- while a solemn voice intones the words : " Intimidation . Prejudice . Hostility . Discrimination . Fear . " <p> It is the debate itself that they fear . <p> Even without any foundation in fact , such a high-voltage scare campaign can be intimidating . Jewish and other students are indeed being harassed -- by media and government scare tactics . <p> Is Zionism beyond criticism ? <p> The government of Stephen Harper , of course , does not rest its case solely on false reports of anti-Jewish harassment . His minister Jason Kenney , addressing the House of Commons March 3 , accuses Israeli Apartheid Week of claiming that " Zionism is racism . " Speaking in Britain February 17 , he assailed the " anti-Zionist version of anti-Semitism " which maintains that " the Jews alone have no right to a homeland . " <p> He made no reference to the plight of the Palestinians , who have been dispossessed , expelled , and oppressed during the building of an apartheid-based " homeland . " Taking possession of Palestine as a Jewish " homeland , " without reference to its inhabitants , is of course the defining purpose of Zionism . <p> Responding to Kenney , Judy Rebick and Alan Sears noted that Zionism has been strongly contested over the past century by " Jewish universalism , " which holds that the future of the Jewish community depends " on winning widespread freedoms that applied to all members of society . " ( National Post , March 1 , 2009 ) <p> The Harper government now seems intent on shutting down this debate by declaring Zionism to be beyond criticism . <p> Stifling student dissent <p> University administrations have applied these policies by obstructing pro-Palestinian activities with barriers that limit free academic discussion . Increasingly arcane and restrictive regulations provide the administration with ample pretexts , utilized on a selective basis . <p> Last October , the University of Toronto administration denied meeting space to Students Against Israeli Apartheid ( SAIA ) . The decision was made , in consultation with U of T President David Naylor , even before SAIA submitted an application . Administrators were confident some pretext could be found , and duly found one . <p> On February 24 , York University administrators seized on another technicality ( excessive noise during a demonstration ) to fine York SAIA $1,000 and ban it for one month . Ottawa , Carleton , and Trent universities banned the poster advertising Israeli Apartheid Week : a drawing that showed an Isareli helicopter firing on a Palestinian child , evoking the slaughter of more than 400 children in Gaza under the Israeli bombardment . <p> Applications are frequently denied , or if approved , cancelled at the last moment , or , if permitted to take place , interrupted by squads of pro-Israeli disruptors and the unwanted intrusion of armed city police . <p> Such repressive moves encourage aggressive actions by right-wing groupings . Palestinian rights advocates at Toronto 's three universities have noted " an alarming increase in harassment , intimidation and physical violence against Israeli Apartheid Week organizers and guests . " When such incidents are reported , the students say , campus police take no action . <p> A ready solution <p> The Toronto students stress that lectures should not have to take place behind heavy police lines . " We do not want our events to be militarized , " they say . " Instead , we believe the freedom to hold Israeli Apartheid Week events could be relatively easily guaranteed by a public statement from university administrations stating that free expression on campuses will be protected and that the University rejects the false claim that IAW events constitute ' hate speech . ' " <p> Student activists at Carleton and Ottawa universities have called on the university administration to sponsor a full public debate on their universities ' position on the proposed institutional boycott of Israeli academic institutions . <p> Such actions could quickly dispel the atmosphere of intimidation and permit a civil and respectful discussion of the tragic conflict in Palestine . The university administrations have yet to respond . <p> ' We wo n't give an inch ' <p> The federal government has seized on the issue of Israel to promote restrictions on freedom of speech that threaten the rights of everyone in Canada . <p> Among the victims of this policy is the Jewish community , which is both hindered from discussing its deep internal divisions on Israeli government policy and is simultaneously set up to take the rap for government infringements on civil liberties . <p> The government is acting from weakness : its stand of unconditional support for the Israeli government 's crimes can not stand the light of objective scrutiny . <p> " Serious movements have serious enemies , " commented activist Naomi Klein to Toronto 's opening Israeli Apartheid Week meeting March 2 . " All the attacks you are facing is a measure of the success of this movement . " <p> Klein urged the movement to stand firm . " Anger at use of the word apartheid increases even as Israel moves more openly to apartheid measures . It is a wake-up word . It brings to life the horror . " <p> Summing up the convictions of hundreds of Israeli Apartheid Week supporters , Klein declared , " We affirm our right to use tactics that actually work , images that evoke empathy , words that inspire a global movement . And we wo n't give an inch . " <p> More people are reading rabble.ca than ever and unlike many news organizations , we have never put up a paywall -- at rabble we 've always believed in making our reporting and analysis free to all , while striving to make it sustainable as well . Media is n't free to produce . rabble 's total budget is likely less than what big corporate media spend on photocopying ( we kid you not ! ) and we do not have any major foundation , sponsor or angel investor . Our main supporters are people and organizations -- like you . This is why we need your help . You are what keep us sustainable . <p> rabble.ca has staked its existence on you . We live or die on community support -- your support ! We get hundreds of thousands of visitors and we believe in them . We believe in you . We believe people will put in what they can for the greater good . We call that sustainable . <p> So what is the easy answer for us ? Depend on a community of visitors who care passionately about media that amplifies the voices of people struggling for change and justice . It really is that simple . When the people who visit rabble care enough to contribute a bit then it works for everyone . <p> And so we 're asking you if you could make a donation , right now , to help us carry forward on our mission . Make a donation today . 
@@51250991 <h> Windsor , Ont. , philanthropist donates $2M to Jewish causes <p> Well-known Windsor , Ont. , philanthropist Alan Quesnel has donated more than $2 million to support local and international Jewish and pro-Israel Christian organizations . <p> Quesnel , the former owner of a chain of athletic clubs in southern Ontario and a major donor to religious and service organizations , made the donation to the Windsor Jewish Federation on Dec. 4 . <p> Jay Katz , the executive director of the Federation and Windsor Jewish Community Centre , was elated . " It was a surprise , " he said . " We received notice from him over the weekend that he wanted to make a large gift . " <p> As per Quesnel 's request , the Jewish Community Endowment Fund of Windsor will send just over $1 million of those funds to Christians United for Israel ( CUFI ) , which is based in San Antonio . <p> " I would like to try in some small way to begin bridging the gap between these two wonderful religions , " Quesnel said in a statement . He was unavailable for further comment . <p> The remaining $1 million will go directly toward Windsor 's Jewish community , to be shared by the Windsor Jewish Community Centre , United Jewish Appeal and the Jewish National Fund , to support activities in southwestern Ontario and Israel . <p> Quesnel has contributed millions of dollars to an array of organizations over the years , including donating money to restore a local Catholic church and repair the city 's only medical PET/CT scanner . He has given money to the Canadian Mental Health Association and a Windsor hospice , and contributed $4 million to aid projects in Haiti . <p> Katz said the donation to the local Jewish community will buttress many activities , some of which are ecumenical . <p> " The Windsor Jewish Community Centre and Windsor Jewish Federation serve all of Windsor , " he said . <p> " A lot of the events we do are attended by lots of people from the wider community and we do educational programs in schools , and we do cultural programs ( and ) a summer camp for the whole city , and we have a seniors residence that has a majority non-Jewish people . " <p> Katz said Quesnel likes to give money to groups " who are on the ground doing things , " and said the funds " will give us great stability to continue these programs , to expand them and keep them stable " into the future . <p> He said the donation is " certainly one of the biggest " the Jewish community has seen in decades . <p> Ari Morgenstern , a spokesman for CUFI , declined an interview , saying the organization does not comment on donations . <p> With more than seven million members , CUFI describes itself as " the leading voice " for pro-Israel Christians . <p> The organization started in 2006 with 400 pastors and ministry leaders . It has rallied over a wide variety of issues supporting the Jewish state . <p> " When thousands of Hamas rockets prompted the 2014 war in Gaza , we brought a pastor from every state to Israel during Operation Protective Edge , " its website states . " CUFI is committed to confronting indifference and combatting anti-Semitism in all its forms wherever it may be found . " 
@@51251569 <p> " Since installed as UN secretary general by Washington in January , 2017 , former Portugese prime minister Antonio Guterres said nothing about US-led aggression in Syria or anywhere else . " <p> Antonio de Oliveira Guterres is hands down one of the most confusing politicians , ever ! He was from the Portuguese socialist party , but oversaw the hugest privatization of the country . He increased social spending and enhanced many social aspects in Portugal . He has criticized the Yemen war and Saudi involvement , criticized Trump and was pro Chinese disadent when they died in jail . <p> Do n't know what this Joker is about or where he 's going , he 's clearly confused and kissing everyones ugly ass at the same time <p> " Western ideologues maintain that the conflict in Syria revolves around the status of Bashar Assad . It does not . What 's more , they know it does not . Bashar Assad 's real crime in the eyes of his detractors is not what he has done but what he represents . And what he represents in the context of the brutal conflict that has raged in Syria since 2011 is defiance of a world underpinned by the imperial and cultural mantra of might is right ... " <p> OK this coming final battle in Syria is freekin huge news in China right now . Chinese news media is also claiming that the US was supporting terrorism in Syria ! This is a new thing for me to hear such a straight forward accusation coming from the Chinese media commentators . <p> Also today , Russia has started a massive naval military exercise in the Mediterranian lasting 6 days <p> This alliance , as suggested by the Chinese news media , is posing a huge nightmare for the US ! Now really , the RIT alliance is probably worthy of it 's own thread . But how it relates to this thread , I suspect that Turkey is now on board to help Assad and will not allow Turkey to help help US military intervention . Maybe even oppose ? <p> Old news . Notice how those who never visit this thread suddenly appear to spout their discredited nonsense anytime the western jihadi terror proxies are in danger . Follow the threads back and you will see they never remark western atrocities only allegations against Syria or Russia . In fact history already records the truth of the high crimes their empire has perpetrated in Syria . Including Canada and its ' Not-Sees ' . <p> It suggests that the huge Russian Naval exercises off the coast of Syria are due to US subs and other naval vessels in the area capable of striking Syria . This would mean that Russia is getting ready to engage the US Navy directly in an offensive military strike ! <p> Here 's some speculation . <p> It 's possible there are some war lords in the US/Israel military ready to strike against Syria/Russia . Regardless of Trumps position , and Russia is aware of this possibility . So this huge military build up is sending the signal to any rebel war pigs in the US/Israel military that if they engage , they will have a full blown out Russia vs US war <p> " ... Not only has the US failed categorically to produce the evidence it claimed to possess regarding previous alleged chemical weapons attacks blamed on Damascus , it has also failed to provide any logical motive to explain why Damascus would carry out such attacks . <p> The routine use of humanitarian corridors , cease-fire deals , and the government-sponsored relocation of militants lays to rest the West 's claims that Damascus aims to ' collectively punish ' its own population . <p> There is clearly no tactical , strategic or political gain for Damascus to use chemical weapons . But there is every reason for the US and its partners to lie and claim it does . <p> As Syrian forces close in on Idlib , with Western-sponsored militants flushed out of virtually every other city , town and governate west of the Euphrates , little will stop Damascus from finally returning security and stability to do so . " <p> The blasts occurred at the Mazzeh military airport late Saturday night , according to multiple reporters on the ground . Explosions can be heard in footage from Damascus posted on social media . .... <p> Can this latest Israeli missile attack be confirmed ? The Syrian Government vowed not to permit another such attack without reprisal ... is this in response to the outing of the proposed chemical false flag somewhere in Idlib Provine ? If anyone thinks we are not close to nuclear armageddon ? <p> " Last week we looked at the upcoming campaign to liberate Idleb . The attack will commence only after the September 7 summit of the presidents of Russia , Turkey and Iran in Tehran . Meanwhile the US detailed its future role in the war on Syria . <p> The new US aim in Syria is to hinder all political progress in the reestablishing of government control as well as to obstruct any repair of the damage its war on Syria caused . The semi-permanent US occupation of northeast Syria will be used in a new ( and futile ) attempt to achieve the long-held US aim of regime change ... " <p> " A senior Syrian official underlined the government 's efforts to prepare the schools in Idlib for the new school year , and said Turkey and militant groups are not popular in the province . <p> ' Idlib is a Syrian province and the government can not leave it with the terrorist groups . Today the province 's citizens clearly demand the Syrian army 's deployment . ' He added that the occupying Turkish army and affiliated militants are not popular in Idlib . <p> Relevant reports said on Sunday that terrorist groups directed by Ankara 's forces , plan to launch a heavy offensive on the Syrian Army in Aleppo province as government troops are preparing to kick off their long-awaited assault on terrorists in Idlib , a media outlet reported . <p> The Kurdish language Hawar news reported that Ankara-backed terrorists are reinvigorating their combat capabilities via fortifying positions and concentrating militants in Aleppo to kick off a surprise attack against the army . It further said that the terrorists ' upcoming attack has been directed by the Turkish army command , adding that the terrorists are to start the offensive by suicide attacks and artillery fire on Aleppo city . " <p> " President Bashar al Assad of Syria must not recklessly attack Idlib Province . The Russians and Iranians would be making a grave humanitarian mistake to take part in this potential human tragedy . Hundreds of thousands of people could be killed . Do n't let that happen ! " <p> " IMPORTANT Message from the US Envoy for the Global Coalition to Counter ISIL - Brett McGurk on the situation in Idlib , Syria : ' Idlib Province is the largest Al Qaeda safe haven since 9/11 , tied directly to Ayman al Zawahiri &amp; this is a HUGE problem . " <p> Actually they are more likely to have a clear understanding of a war , conceived , incited , orchestrated and supported by the West including the invasion by hundreds of thousands of fundamentalist jihadi proxies . And as Syrian territory is liberated by the legitimate authorities and their legitimate allies , the UN reports over 700,000 have returned . More will do so once the West-backed terrorists are finally eliminated . Which they most certainly will be despite all the lamentations of Canadian cheerleaders who support each and every murderous imperial project that comes along . <p> " The same US that led the destruction and carnage of Mosul and Raqqa ( and turns a blind eye to civilian suffering inflicted by US allies in Gaza and Yemen ) now warns Syria not to ' recklessly ' free Idlib from rebels who even the BBC says are mostly al Qaeda . " <p> " Prominent human-rights groups like Amnesty International have rejected the US-led coalition 's reported figures on civilian deaths , stating that the coalition is ' deeply in denial ' about the large number of civilians killed and injured by coalition strikes . <p> The coalition 's actions in Syria are considered illegal by the Syrian government and have not been authorized by the UN Security Council . Coalition strikes have also targeted Syrian military annd allied forces engaged in fighting Daesh ... " <p> " .. The current situation can not continue . It is unconscionable to leave the 1-2 million civilians in Syria under the rule of al Qaeda . HTS is just now arresting hundreds of civilians who want to reconcile with the government . It builds gallows as warnings to not talk to the government . It executes those who do and publishes picturess of it . <p> Two UN Security Council resolutions demand to fight the ' Al Nusra Front ( ANF ) , and all other individuals , groups , undertakings and entities associated with Al Qaeda or ISIL , and other terrorist groups ' and ' to eradicate the safe haven they have established over significant parts of Syria ... ' How is that supposed to be done without fighting them ? Will the US or Canada , as with A/Q 's ' White Helmets ' offer to resettle HTS and other Jihadis in Wyoming ? Will Turkey give them apartments in Antalya ? No . Then What ? <p> The US is not a friend of the people of Syria . If it gives advice the Syrian government and its allies should do the opposite . Any delay of the liberation of Idlib will strengthen the enemy . They should launch the operation as soon as possible ... " <p> " IDF has forced the Jerusalem Post to remove its explosive report on the Israeli military giving weapons to the Syrian rebels , the newspaper 's managing editor confirmed to RT . ' We were told by the army 's military censor to remove that part of the story , ' David Brinn , the managing editor of the Jerusalem Post told RT as he replied to a request for comment . <p> The report , ' IDF Confirms Israel Provided Light Weapons To Syrian Rebels ' , which claimed that the Israeli military acknowledged for the first time that it had provided money , weapons and ammunition to the Syrian militants , was removed just hours after being published without any explanation . <p> Israel has been arming at least 7 different armed groups in Syria 's Golan Heights , the report said . The deleted report comes on the heels of another major disclosure . On Monday the IDF announced that Israel carried out more than 200 strikes on Syrian targets in the past year and a half . " <p> And as Syrian territory is liberated by the legitimate authorities and their legitimate allies , the UN reports over 700,000 have returned . <p> Out of a population of approximately 19 million Syrians , it will be interesting to see how many of the 13 million Syrian refugees , including the 5.5 million living abroad , still have confidence in the Assad regime and return to Syria . Almost two-thirds of Syria 's population has been displaced , a third are internally displaced and almost a third of their population have fled Assad 's Syria ! <p> Almost two-thirds of Syria 's population has been displaced , a third are internally displaced and almost a third of their population have fled Assad 's Syria ! <p> That is what our tax dollars have done for the Syrian people . Too bad they had to live under a government that NATO objects to . If they were smart they would get themselves a King or Shah like Jordan and Saudi Arabia . That way no matter how despotic their government got at least the West would not be engaging in murderous regime change and destroying cities . They would then only have their local torture chambers to contend with not NATO bombs and NATO armed terrorists letting off car bombs in their common spaces . <p> The Working Group on Syria , Propaganda and Media ( WGSPM ) has issued a report into the alleged chemical attack in Douma this year and other alleged chemical attacks in Syria since 2014 . Claims of the use of chemical weapons by President Bashar al Assad 's government have repeatedly been made to justify and provoke US-NATO military interventions . Many of the claims have involved the White Helmets , set up in 2013 as a proxy of the UK and US governments to provide logistical support and propaganda for Western-backed ' rebels ' ... " <p> " The Trump administration , just like the Obama regime , is willing to start WWIII to protect the largest al Qaeda outfit in the world from annihilation by the Syrian government and its Russian , Iranian and Lebanese allies . The NYT and the rest of the corporate media have also chosen sides in the struggle against terror in Syria ; they prefer the sons and daughters of Osama bin Laden to the internationally recognized government in Damascus . <p> The same goes for most of the so-called ' resistance ' - the world 's phoniest ' left ' , who directs their righteous anger at the victims of US imperialism and take their political cues from the corporate rag on 42nd Street , oligarch Jeff Bezos propaganda sheet in Washington and Rachel Maddow , the MS-DNC 's 8 Million Dollar Woman ... " <p> " The Trump administration is signalling that it may consider complying with Israel 's declared sovereignty over the occupied Syrian Golan Heights . US Ambassador to Israel David Friedman told Israel Today ' I ca n't imagine a circumstance where the Golan Heights will be returned to Syria ... " <p> " I am very sure that we have very , very good grounds to be making these warnings , " Mr Jeffrey said in his first interview since being appointed . <p> " Any offensive is to us objectionable as a reckless escalation . There is lots of evidence that chemical weapons are being prepared . " <p> He did not give details of the evidence he was referring to . " <p> And I found this interesting : <p> " He said the United States had repeatedly asked Russia whether it could " operate " in Idlib to eliminate the last holdouts of Islamic State and other extremist groups . Asked whether that would include U.S. air strikes , Jeffrey said : " That would be one way . " <p> " Turkey seems to have prevailed during tripartite talks with Russia and Iran , convincing the other parties that a major offensive in Syria 's Idlib governate would not be the wisest move at the moment . All three nations agreed that the threat of radical Islamists in Syria must be eliminated , but differ as to how this should be achieved ... " <p> All point to one incontrovertible fact : that the regime and its allies are the main authors of violence in the conflict . In the words of the UN Commission of Inquiry , the regime is responsible for " the crimes against humanity of extermination ; murder ; rape or other forms of sexual violence ; torture ; imprisonment ; enforced disappearance and other inhuman acts . " Yet , even as the regime begins its assault on Idlib , the European Union is debating formulas for rewarding Assad 's government with reconstruction money , eager to hasten the restoration of " stability " so that it can begin repatriating Syrian refugees . <p> If they were smart they would get themselves a King or Shah like Jordan and Saudi Arabia . <p> Will Assad be initiating a free and fair democratic election ? <p> I have no idea ? When do you think Jordan or Saudi Arabia are going to initiate them ? Free and democratic elections are a lot like free markets . They are both abstract concepts that are subject to interpretation and bias . <p> Does Russia have free and democratic elections ? <p> How about the Ukraine do they have free and fair elections ? <p> Now for the tough one , does the US of A have free and democratic elections ? <p> As laughable as the 6 million Syrian refugees , 7 million internally displaced Syrians , and the appriximately 650,000 Syrians killed during Assad 's Syrian civil war ? Would fair and democratic elections be preferable to a civil war ? <p> As laughable as the 6 million Syrian refugees , 7 million internally displaced Syrians , and the appriximately 650,000 Syrians killed during Assad 's Syrian civil war ? Would fair and democratic elections be preferable to a civil war ? <p> So when is the US going to have free fair and democratic elections ? How long should we wait until wwe arm terrorists in the US to overthrow the corrupt regime ? <p> As laughable as the 6 million Syrian refugees , 7 million internally displaced Syrians , and the appriximately 650,000 Syrians killed during Assad 's Syrian civil war ? Would fair and democratic elections be preferable to a civil war ? <p> So when is the US going to have free fair and democratic elections ? How long should we wait until wwe arm terrorists in the US to overthrow the corrupt regime ? <p> You think elections in the US and Syria are similar ? Maybe if Trump had his way ? <p> " The civilized world should be celebrating the fact that Syria and its allies are on the cusp of defeating al Qaeda terrorists in Syria . If Canada , the West and their allies conducted civilized foreign policies , they would be celebrating . But we in the West are not civilized . We support Al Qaeda . <p> The position of the uncivilized , terrorist-supporting West and its allies , consists of vacuous demonizations of the Syrian government and fabricated rationales which serve to protect and sustain Al Qaeda . " <p> The position of the uncivilized , terrorist-supporting West and its allies , consists of vacuous demonizations of the Syrian government and fabricated rationales which serve to protect and sustain Al Qaeda . " <p> I must have missed the opinion poll that showed that the West supports Al Qaeda ! I also ca n't seem to remember any Western representatives being in support of Al Qaeda ! However I do remember Al Qadea being negatively connected somehow to that 9-11 event in New York ... 
@@51266296 <h> You are here <p> rabble blogs are the personal pages of some of Canada 's most insightful progressive activists and commentators . All opinions belong to the writer ; however , writers are expected to adhere to our guidelines . We welcome new bloggers -- contact us for details . <h> On Human Rights Day ( and every day ... ) , remember freedom of movement for Palestinians <p> When I finally entered the Gaza Strip on October 18 , 2012 , I wept . The trip across the Sinai and the crossing at the Rafah border between Egypt and Gaza ( as described in detail by my colleagues M ? ire Noonan and Verena Stresing ) seemed long and fraught . This was my fourth attempt to reach Gaza , so it was emotional for me to finally arrive . We were there for a linguistics conference , and had the opportunity to meet some wonderful young people who were thirsting for contact with the outside world . We felt lucky to be able to travel there and meet them , and to enjoy some legendary Palestinian hospitality . <p> Our timing was indeed very lucky : the same trip a year later would be impossible , since the Egyptian military has since closed down that crossing . <p> Since the July 2012 coup and the Egyptian military 's xenophobic scapegoating of Palestinians , the crackdown at the Rafah crossing has become brutal . The stories of individuals unable to cross are heartbreaking : students losing their academic year and in some cases scholarships because they can not enroll , sick patients suffering because they can not reach needed treatments , families kept apart , and worse . The systemic effects are even worse , as lack of fuel limits electricity supplies , which in turn means failure of critical infrastructure : kids wading through sewage on the way to school and having to study by candle-light while hospitals are unable to keep life-saving equipment powered up . <p> These increasingly unlivable conditions in Gaza are an unnatural human disaster , and entirely preventable . The Israeli blockade and the Egyptian enforcement of it on one side are both political choices by governments that subject Palestinian civilians in Gaza to miserable conditions for political motives . These political choices are in turn enabled by the complicit silence of the governments we elect . So the Palestinians in Gaza know that they can not depend on governments , only on international civil society -- people of conscience the world over -- to draw attention on their plight . <p> For some years I have been working with civil society groups opposing the blockade of Gaza . But you do n't have to join our grassroots direct actions in person to support our efforts to challenge the blockade , or join the more than 10 000 people worldwide who have signed a petition initiated by young Palestinians in Gaza calling for the complete opening of the Rafah border in both directions . As an educator , I ca n't help thinking about the young Palestinians we met in Gaza . Depriving them of freedom of movement means condemning them to a future without hope : if we allow that , we can hardly be surprised if some of them turn to hopeless actions . <p> Personal emotional responses aside , my ability to travel to Gaza is of course not the real issue . What is really at stake here is one of the basic human rights that the occupation deprives Palestinians of on a regular basis : the right to travel about their land , to leave and return to their country . Freedom of movement , as enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights , is fundamental for everything from education and health care to the ability to earn a living and see your family . <p> UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay says the Israeli blockade on Gaza and restrictions on freedom of movement throughout Palestine amount to collective punishment , a violation of fundamental human rights . On Human Rights Day ( or any other day ) , you can learn more about lack of freedom of movement imposed on the West Bank Palestinian village of Nabi Saleh by the same occupation , its effect on people 's livelihoods as well as what you can do to about it in this Write for Rights action featured by Amnesty International . Although the situations vary in different parts of Palestine , the overarching violation of the right of freedom of movement is a constant of the occupation . <p> More people are reading rabble.ca than ever and unlike many news organizations , we have never put up a paywall -- at rabble we 've always believed in making our reporting and analysis free to all , while striving to make it sustainable as well . Media is n't free to produce . rabble 's total budget is likely less than what big corporate media spend on photocopying ( we kid you not ! ) and we do not have any major foundation , sponsor or angel investor . Our main supporters are people and organizations -- like you . This is why we need your help . You are what keep us sustainable . <p> rabble.ca has staked its existence on you . We live or die on community support -- your support ! We get hundreds of thousands of visitors and we believe in them . We believe in you . We believe people will put in what they can for the greater good . We call that sustainable . <p> So what is the easy answer for us ? Depend on a community of visitors who care passionately about media that amplifies the voices of people struggling for change and justice . It really is that simple . When the people who visit rabble care enough to contribute a bit then it works for everyone . <p> And so we 're asking you if you could make a donation , right now , to help us carry forward on our mission . Make a donation today . 
@@51276990 <p> " French energy giant Total 's signing of a $5 billion contract on Monday to develop phase 11 of Iran 's South Pars offshore gas fields has sparked fresh interest in business opportunities in the Islamic Republic . More European companies seem to be dropping their qualms about trade ... " <p> ' Big picture ' of the Middle East . What are the current defining trends , who are the winners and losers , and how is this volatile and very dangerous region changing ? And is American influence on the decline ? " <p> On what one observer called " a sad day for warmongers , " the United Nations declared Friday that Iran is fully adhering to the nuclear deal reached in 2015 , and that inspectors will not go looking for infractions at the request of the Trump administration . <p> Trump and the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations , Nikki Haley , have regarded Iran and the agreement with suspicion , with Trump threatening to withhold certification of Iranian compliance , and saying in an interview in July , " If it was up to me , I would have had them noncompliant 180 days ago . " <p> Haley traveled to the International Atomic Energy Agency ( IAEA ) ' s headquarters last week to demand inspections of Iran 's military sites -- but presented no evidence of suspicious activity by the Iranians . IAEA officials reported that they would not be going on a " fishing expedition " to find Iran guilty of noncompliance . " We 're not going to visit a military site ... just to send a political signal , " an IAEA official toldReuters , saying , " If the Trump administration wants to bring down the deal , they will . We just do n't want to give them an excuse to . " <p> The IAEA found that Iran has honored the commitments it made in the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action ( JCPOA ) , brokered by the Obama administration . Iran agreed to limit its nuclear program 's capabilities while the U.S. and five other world powers eased economic sanctions on the country .... <p> What the hell is Trump 's game ? ? ? ? Or Netanyahu 's ? Do n't these freekin incompetent clowns know that China is now the economic power house that at any given time has the power to collapse the US economy ? <p> Looks like the US is shooting itself in the foot . Taken from the above link : <p> The Russian Foreign Ministry has condemned Donald Trump 's refusal to adhere to the 2015 nuclear agreement with Iran , saying that the move poses a threat to international security and nuclear non-proliferation , and exposes the US as an unreliable partner . <p> The US as an unreliable partner . This comment resonates with multi billion dollar investors ! Coupled with Trump 's administration faulting on NAFTA , investment could n't flow fast enough into Asia ! China Russia and India gave the US all the rope Trump wants to hang himself with . <p> Iran 's strategic location on the Silk Road is a linchpin to Beijing 's initiative , particularly due to its access to the Caspian Sea and Persian Gulf , which falls under the guise of its 21st Century Maritime Silk Road . <p> The Chinese government is financing the construction of Pakistan 's part of the long-awaited Iran-Pakistan Pipeline , known as the " Peace Pipeline . " Iran recently became a founding member of the World Bank 's Chinese rival , the Asian Infrastructural Investment Bank ( AIIB ) . <p> Iran also attempted to join the Shanghai Cooperation Organization ( SCO ) in recent years , but was rejected due to sanctions . Now with the JCPOA officially being implemented , it is likely that Tehran can finally receive full membership in the SCO . <p> Any threat of war from Israel or the US against Iran is a stupid idiot yahoo joke ! Threatining war against Iran is to only make yourself look like a stupid clown and invite trade to flow away from your country and never come back ! <p> " Berlin , like Paris and London , has arranged contracts worth billions in Iran and sees Trump 's course as a threat to its efforts to develop new energy resources and markets for Germany 's export economy in Iran ... " <p> " Accusing Iran of ' terrorism ' and ' violating the spirit of the accord ' , Trump threw the issue into the hands of the Republican-dominated US Congress . He had to . All of Trump 's senior national security officials and those from the treaty partners and UN reported Iran had kept its end of the deal . <p> Israel has just scored a major triumph by using Trump to sabotage the Iran nuclear pact . Israel is determined to destroy Iran so that it can never pose a military or political challenge to the Jewish state . Call it Iraq II ... " <p> " Tensions are high in Iran as hundreds of people protest in multiple cities against the government 's economic policies . Al Jazeera spoke to Mohammad Marandi , professor of Tehran University about the reasons behind the recent anti-government rallies ... " <p> " Predictably , the same voices who have consistently demanded Iran 's international isolation , along with the imposition of sanctions , military intervention and regime change , have rapidly sought to bandwagon the recent expressions of discontent and appropriate them for their own imperial agendas ... " <p> " The US and Israel have reached a joint strategic workplan to counter Iranian activity in the Middle East . US and Israeli officials said the joint understandings were reached in a secret meeting between senior Israeli and US delegations at the White House on December 12th ... " <p> " The Islamic Republic of Iran regards the meddlesome stance of the Canadian government as a violation of that country 's legal and international commitments , ' Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman Bahram Qassemi said on Sunday . He added that the Canadian government 's position was not in conformity with remarks by the counry 's senior officials about the importance of improving interaction and dialogue with Iran . ' Unfortunately , the Canadian government 's rhetoric is a rehash of the wrong , illogical and ineffective rhetoric of Canada 's previous governments against the Iranian people and is inadmissible , ' the Iranian spokesperson pointed out ... " <p> " Then there is this : Carl Bildt@carlbildt - 9:38 PM-28 Dec 2017 from Rome ... ' Reports of signals of international satellite TV networks jammed in large cities of Iran . Would be sign of regime fear of today 's protests spreading . ' A search in various languages finds exactly zero such ' reports ' . Carl Bildt is a former Swedish prime minister . He was recruited in 1973 as a CIA informant and has since grown into a full blown US asset . He was involved in the Ukraine coup and tried to personally profit from it ... " <p> @carlbildt : ' Great to assess the state of the world with friend and Canada FM @cafreeland in Toronto today ... ' <p> " In ' Iran - Regime Change Agents Hijack Economic Protests we looked at the developing US-Israel operations to instigate a revolt in Iran . What follows are a few more background points and a view of the developments since ... <p> " The Canadian government has expressed support for people protesting in Iran . In Toronto , dozens gathered to show solidarity with the people of Iran . ' People want freedom and justice , ' Zahra Fallah , one of the Toronto protest organizers told CTV News Channel . ' They want the overthrow of the regime . ' <p> National Iranian American Council research director Reza Marashi* told CTV News Channel , ' What you 're seeing more than anything else is fully legitimate grievances because Iranian political , economic and social priorities have been long unmet ... " <p> " *Reza Marashi joined NIAC in 2010 as the organization 's first Research Director . He came to NIAC after serving in the Office of Iranian Affairs at the US Dept of State . Marashi is frequently consulted by Western governments on Iran related matters ... " <p> This is making me really sad . I was hoping I 'd get some news from the Khadir-Machouf clan or other progressive Iranians here . I 'll try finding more news at progressive labour sites ... certainly not from Iranian Press TV about this domestic story . <p> Iran Spring anyone ? Regime Change ? Will we again be prohibited from any other interpretation than that this is an entirely spontaneous ' upsurge of democracy ' , as was the creed with some Canadian ' progressives ' with Libya , Syria , Ukraine or whatever else The Guardian says ? <p> " Obama , Clinton and Kerry imposed ' crippling sanctions ' designed and calculated to inflict hardship on ordinary people , so not entirely ' an Iranian moment ' . <p> " It 's been a while since moderates in Iran have been sandwiched between Trump and Iranian hardliners ' shared plots . Trump ultimately wants regime change . Hardliners want the next presidency and ultimately to succeed Ay . Khamenei . Thus they tacitly assist each other . " <p> " The Canadian government has expressed support for people protesting in Iran . In Toronto , dozens gathered to show solidarity with the people of Iran . ' People want freedom and justice , ' Zahra Fallah , one of the Toronto protest organizers told CTV News Channel . ' They want the overthrow of the regime . ' <p> National Iranian American Council research director Reza Marashi* told CTV News Channel , ' What you 're seeing more than anything else is fully legitimate grievances because Iranian political , economic and social priorities have been long unmet ... " <p> " *Reza Marashi joined NIAC in 2010 as the organization 's first Research Director . He came to NIAC after serving in the Office of Iranian Affairs at the US Dept of State . Marashi is frequently consulted by Western governments on Iran related matters ... " <p> Sure , let Iran solve their own problems . Is n't that what Canada does with our own issues ? Or does Canada take direction from Asian countries ? Sounds like the Canadian government has an arrogant attitude as if it were more intelligent or righteous . <p> " Canada continues to oppose Iran 's support for terrorist organizations , its threats toward Israel , its support for the Assad regime and its ballistic missile program . - Global Affairs Canada ( Nov. 2017 ) <p> " Trump and Netanyahu know this is n't a revolution ; their statements aim at sowing discord by tainting mostly unarmed protesters as being in cahoots with Iran 's enemies . Plan is to make government paranoid and resort to heavy-handed measures which could then plunge country into civil war . " <p> " Meanwhile , a spokesman for Iran 's foreign ministry has hit back at the US president , saying that Trump should focus on his own country rather than tweet about civil unrest abroad ... " <p> " While legitimate grievances &amp; protest exist over internal issues in Iran , some of Twitter 's ' Iran analysts ' are truly getting overexcited . So let 's open the issue up a little bit . Who 's in the streets , how large exactly are the crowds and who 's joining them ... " <p> Here is Qu ? bec MNA Amir Khadir 's statement in support of the movement of the Iranian people , but also against the false friends in power in the US , Saudi Arabia and elsewhere who are just trying to " fish in troubled waters " <p> So while everybody is instructing the long-suffering people of Iran in the scope and content of their rights and in the peacefully obedient manner in which they might be permitted to exercise them , it is useful to consider some other ancient and universal rights which the Iranian people are also fully entitled to exercise . <p> The right to tyrannicide . The right to vigorous , revolutionary violence . The right to sedition and sabotage . The right to insurrectionist mayhem . The right to wage armed struggle in the cause of overthrowing the filthy , corrupt and wicked Khomeinist regime in its entirety , once and for all . <p> And lagatta , if there is an English translation of the Amir Khadir statement I 'd be much obliged . Though I 'll try google translate as well . <p> Sorry , I have n't found one and unfortunately do n't have time to translate anything other than the sample chapter of a book I 'm working away on now . Google should be understandable . I assure all that the Khadir-Machouf clan ( Amir and Nima 's extended families ) have absolutely no sympathies and nothing to do with either Israeli aggression or US imperialism . There are PROGRESSIVE Iranians in many diaspora countries who are concerned about their fellow Iranians back home and want better working conditions as well as more freedom and respect for women and for all people . <p> It is true that imperialism will always try to co-opt progressive movements in countries of the periphery , but it does not follow that those movements are all shams or creations of the imperial centre . Such a conspiratorial outlook denies the agency of Iranians and other peoples . Iran has become a very highly educated country ( in that sense , the " Islamic republic " was actually progressive , especially in terms of rising educational rates for young women and for rural and working-class youth ) and there is a thirst for better living conditions and more democracy . <p> In my case , I was n't referring to Canadian liberals , but to Irano-Canadian ( or more precisely , Irano-Qu ? b ? coisE ) socialists . Whom I 've encountered countless times at demonstrations , vigils , meetings and conferences protesting such manifestations of US imperialism and Israeli agression as the Gulf and Iraq wars , the Gaza and Lebanon assaults , as well as interference in American countries south of the US , from Central America to the Cono Sur . <p> I 've never been to Iran , nor do I speak Farsi . Amir Khadir and Nima Machouf were both born in Iran , and not only them but their parents , aunts , uncles and cousins have been involved in decades in protests against both the Shah and the mullahs . They are not pro-imperialist , nor are they ignorant imperialist dupes , far from it . <p> Lagatta : Google translater came through and I agree it is quite a good statement , thanks . You said this , which I wanted to address too , seeing as it has been somewhat of a flashpoint in the past : <p> Quote : <p> It is true that imperialism will always try to co-opt progressive movements in countries of the periphery , but it does not follow that those movements are all shams or creations of the imperial centre . Such a conspiratorial outlook denies the agency of Iranians and other peoples . <p> I entirely agree that the view that progressive movements ( and even nonprogressive movements that seek some sort of change in government ) are all creations of the imperial centre is conspiratorial and false . They can arise naturally from unjust situations and succeed , be co-opted or subverted , or fail , and there is no general rule . Its so hard for us to know from the outside . <p> But even if someone were to take that conspiratorial position here , I would suggest to you that it does not in any material way " deny the agency " of the Iranian people . Their agency is denied by their government , and meddling outside imperial powers playing geopolitical games - compared to that , the opinion of a random babbler or blogger on the legitimacy or strength of their movement is small potatoes , and of no consequence to their situation , or their movement 's success or failure . <p> Discussing with a person with this conspiratorial opinion is , to my mind , somewhat of an opportunity . If one thinks the current situation in Iran has no legitimate grievances behind it , has no popular support and is a CIA creation , they are likely to oppose US intervention and further sanctions , so that 's a start at least . In some ways its easier to deal with , and a less delusional view , than a cruise missile liberal who believes US intervention will lead to a democratic , secular Iranian state , despite all the available evidence from the past . <p> The US treatment of the Iranian nuclear disarmament deal is just the kind of incentive the North Koreans need to sit down at the bargaining table to strike a deal with the US . After all they can see how well that has gone for Iran . <p> Perhaps MOBO2000 . Iran is still a democracy in an hard line Islamic country , with a foot in the past and present . To me their circumstances sound very complex and sensitive . I believe it would be better to not get involved . Just continue trading and moving towards normalizing relations between Canada and Iran . Since Canada 's relation with the US gives Canada a bit of a black eye , Canada is no position to preach to Iran and doing so would only work against normalizing our relations . As well , China/Russiais are more than happy to see Iran do well ! Even to the point that I believe that they may be encouraging Iran to get into BRICS SCO . <p> Many people are protesting the Kinder Morgan pipeline in BC and they elected municipal , provincial and federal politicians who all say no to the oil oligarchy 's plans . Should Iran , Russia and China help those freedom fighters overthrow the ruling oligarchy fronted by the corrupt PM Trudeau , himself a member of that oiligarchy ? <p> " I think you 're beginning to see the initial kernel of a revolution forming right now . If this thing is sustained over a period of time and the government tries to clamp down , but the numbers of protesters grow , I think at that point you 've got a revolution on your hands , ' Kaveh Sharooz , a Toronto lawyer , human rights activist and former senior policy analyst to Global Affairs Canada , told me over the weekend . <p> Sharooz served as a prosecutor in the ' Iran Tribunal ' , an ad hoc initiative that assembled jurists and international law specialists at the Hague five years ago to assemble a case against senior Khomeinist officials on charges of crimes against humanity ... ' You 've got all the elements of a revolution now , ' Sharooz said ... " <p> " ... The campaign is designed to create the atmosphere for a war on that country . The media give it ample room . But the US is very lonely in that attempt . The violence against public property by some young rioters has alienated the original legitimate protesters who have ample economic reasons to reject the neo-liberal politicians of the current Iranian government . The instigation of violence from the outside of Iran , likely due to CIA machinations , has robbed them of their voice ... " <p> Why should vandalism by some young " hotheads " be used to discredit a broader movement , which has been largely based on improving people 's living conditions , as well as issues of labour and democratic rights ? I doubt very much that many people involved support US or Israeli interference . Why should Iranian workers , women , students and people generally have fewer social and democratic rights than people elsewhere ? And of course , I agree that such rights should be upheld here , and that it is certainly not always the case , in particular with respect to Indigenous people . <p> " On Tuesday , US Ambassador Haley called for urgent meetings of the UNSC and the UN Human Rights Council to back the anti-government protesters . ' The UN must speak out , ' Haley said at a news conference . ' The people of Iran are crying out ... " <p> Starting with the Iranian file , Sayyed Nasrallah indicated that the protests started due to economic problems but it was later politicized , taking advantage of some riots and foreign stances made by US President Donald Trump and his advisor , Zionist PM Benjamin Netanyahu . <p> However , he assured that the Iranian regime is in control of the situation and the economic issue is being studied especially , because the Islamic Republic has been under siege and sanctions since its victory . Sayyed Nasrallah stressed the wide public support for Iran 's foreign policy , specifically regarding Al Quds which they consider as part of their national security . <p> Whatever happened will not effect Iran ' s support for the resistance , the Iranian people have faith in the resistance and the hopes of Trump and Netanyahu will be frustrated , ' Sayyed Nasrallah told Lebanese journalist Sami Klieb <p> " So we 've got three longstanding Iran hawks carefully constructing a propaganda narrative for the Fox News crowd explaining why it will be a good thing if America does with Iran exactly what it did with Libya and Syria . In both these countries large protests were quickly infiltrated by foreign actors and extremist factions quickly arose to be covertly armed , funded and trained by the US and its allies ... " <p> " Oil prices started this year on a high note as some geopolitical tensions pushed aside Bearish concerns . Both WT1 and Brent opened above $60 per barrel for the first time in years . The protests in Iran were the main driver of the bullish sentiment in the oil market ... " <p> To me their circumstances sound very complex and sensitive . I believe it would be better to not get involved . Just continue trading and moving towards normalizing relations between Canada and Iran . Since Canada 's relation with the US gives Canada a bit of a black eye , Canada is no position to preach to Iran and doing so would only work against normalizing our relations . <p> Lagatta : Iranians deserve labour rights , dignity and a good standard of living , the same as everyone else , yes . The issue in play to me is what will our govenment do , or what should it do , and will that help or make things worse . All the options being floated in the media now seem to be aimed at encouraging the protests , and violence within the protestors , perhaps with the aim of eventually having Iran declared a failed state requiring rescue by the US , or through the UN . 
@@51276992 <p> " Russiagate is part of the establishment parties ' strategy to silence any discussion of international relations outside the bipartisan consensus of endless war and global military domination . How else could they take trillions of dollars for war while American communities crumble ? " <p> Not surprised by the timing of the release of this poll here . From what I 'm reading and hearing , there 's going to be a huge concentrated retaliation against the US dollar coming . Economic retaliation or possible the US got wind of this and was just making a pre emptive tarrif hit on many countries ? <p> Either way , the countries so far planning to dump the US petro buck are Russia , Turkey Iran . and Germany . I suspect that China is in there as well and would n't rule out India ? <p> This subject really deserves it 's own thread because it 's too far seperated from this one . Perhaps you can pick up on it NDPP ? <p> Hi Mr Magoo . Yes this is a large attack on the US dollar . I only understand the simple version of how this works . About 10 years ago or so , the US dollar was the main currency standard around the world . When every country buys and sells goods from to another country , it is done in US dollars . And the US makes a profit from this . Even though they literally only just print the money . Apparently this gives the US a huge huge huge economic advantage several ways and it 's supposed to be one of the root causes of all the conflicts in North Africa/ Middle East and is central to US imperialism . <p> But China started to change this when their economy started challenging the US say 5-10 years ago ? They offered their trading parties the opportunity to ditch the US dollar and trade directly . This would result in 1-2% reduction in cost for both trading parties . Naturally this pisses off the US monopoly on currency . And rumour has it the US started the Arab spring to slow this errosion eating at the US dollar or was an attempt to stop it completely due to the fact that oil trading is the main prop for the US dollar . <p> Now I do n't understand how all of this works , just a simple version . <p> A speculation I have is that the US backed Arab spring has turned out to be a huge failure and has only had the opposite intended affect . The damage to the US credibility and huge cost to their economy has allowed China to walk right in and create opportunities in vast regions including almost every region of the world . Also India is now more than eager to get rid of the US dollar because they see it for what it is , cutting into India 's profit . But India seems to be playing a couple different sides or I have n't read enough on India to get a solid grip ? But they 're clearly still wanting to buy Iranian oil using direct Ruppee trading <p> And going back to my other earlier comment , from what I 'm seeing on Chinese news and from a few different articles links , it looks like there may be a concentrated dump in the US dollar . <p> Sorry but this is serious thread drift and really this subject should have it 's own thread , <p> " Gallup Editor-in-Chief Frank Newport said on Tuesday that Americans have come to reject the idea that President Trump did anything criminal with regards to Russian interference in the 2016 election . ' A lot of Americans have kind of dismissed the idea that he Trump colluded to the extent that he did something illegal , ' Newport told Hill TV 's Joe Concha on ' What America 's Thinking . ' <p> " Gallup Editor-in-Chief Frank Newport said on Tuesday that Americans have come to reject the idea that President Trump did anything criminal with regards to Russian interference in the 2016 election . ' A lot of Americans have kind of dismissed the idea that he Trump colluded to the extent that he did something illegal , ' Newport told Hill TV 's Joe Concha on ' What America 's Thinking . ' <p> So , are you suggesting that whatever the majority or Americans believe must be the truth , or what ? <p> Nonsense . Not only is NATO expanding but Trump has successfully extracted even more funding from its members . Furthermore , the real damage to the EU has been the anti-Russian sanctions which have destroyed trade relations between Europe and Russia , not to mention the consequences of America 's wars . No surprise to find an American arguing for its continuing supremacy and demand we accept its enemies as our own . <p> " The Trump administration has brought US foreign policy to the brink of crisis , if it has not already tipped into one . There is little room to argue otherwise ... The bitter reality is that US foreign policy has no definable objective other than blocking the initiatives of others because they stand in the way of the further expansion of US global interests ... The neoliberal crusade must proceed . Our market-driven ' rules-based ' order is still advanced as the only way out of our planet 's impasses ... ' Right now , our job is to create quagmires until we get what we want , ' an administration official told the Washington Post 's David Ignatius in August . Can you think of a blunter confession of intellectual bankruptcy ? I ca n't . " <p> President Trump is Tougher on Russia in 18 Months Than Obama in 8 Years <p> Jen Kerns has served as a GOP strategist and writer for the U.S. presidential debates for FOX News . She previously served as communications director and spokeswoman for the California Republican Party , the Colorado recalls over gun control , and the Prop . 8 battle over marriage which went all the way to the U.S. Supreme Court . <p> And to think I thought The Hill , since it is always posted here , would be preferable . I keep forgetting Russophobes ' chump-world : All Democrats always speak truth and all Repugs lie , even when they do n't . <p> " ... But the untold story behind that story is one that involves not just the Russian president , but also a former American president and a woman who would like to be the next one . At the heart of the tale are several men , leaders of the Canadian mining industry , who have been major donors to the charitable endeavors of former President Bill Clinton and his family . Members of that group built , financed and eventually sold off to the Russians a company that would become known as Uranium one ... " <p> " ... But the untold story behind that story is one that involves not just the Russian president , but also a former American president and a woman who would like to be the next one . At the heart of the tale are several men , leaders of the Canadian mining industry , who have been major donors to the charitable endeavors of former President Bill Clinton and his family . Members of that group built , financed and eventually sold off to the Russians a company that would become known as Uranium one ... " <p> " One of the key talking points of the Trump-Russia conspiracy theory is that Manafort served Kremlin interests in Ukraine . Mueller 's superseding indictment today shows new reasons why that 's false ; that in fact Manafort pushed a pro-West agenda in Ukraine . Follow along here ... " <p> " ... Manafort admitted to engineering a scheme in which a front company was set up in Brussels to conceal Ukrainian government payments to his own lobbying firm and several others , including the Mercury Group , a bipartisan operation , the Podesta Group , run by Tony Podesta , brother of Clinton 's campaign chairman , and the Skadden Arps law firm , in the person of Gregory Craig , a White House counsel under Obama and a defense lawyer during the impeachment of Bill Clinton ... " <p> Lisa Page Reveals FBI Had No Evidence of Collusion for ' Russiagate ' Probe <p> " By the time special counsel Robert Mueller was appointed , the FBI had found no evidence of collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia during the 2016 US presidential election , according to agency lawyer Lisa Page ... " <p> " US House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes ( R-CA ) appeared on ' Sunday Morning Futures ' with host Maria Bartiromo and stated his intentions to make all the depositions taken in the Russiagate investigation public before the midterm elections . Nunes also said Americans deserve this level of transparency for an investigation that has obstructed the Trump administration 's agenda and a large number of Americans ' have drank this Russia Kool-Aid ' as a result ... " <p> " Bob Woodward said that in his two years of investigating for his new book , ' Fear ' he found no evidence of collusion or espionage between Trump and Russia . Woodward said he looked for it ' hard ' and yet turned up nothing ... " <p> ' The British government ' expressed grave concerns ' to the US government over the declassification and release of material related to the Trump-Russia investigation according to the NYT . President Trump ordered a wide swath of materials ' immediately ' declassifed ' without redaction ' on Monday , only to change his mind later in the week by allowing the DOJ Inspector General to review the materials first . <p> The Times reports that the UK 's concern was over material which ' includes direct references to conversations between American law enforcement officials and Christopher Steeele , the former MI6 agent who compiled the infamous ' Steele Dossier ' ... " <p> " I think Russiagate will go down as left-liberals ' worst political mistake since fittingly , ' 90s Clinton neoliberalism . After many losses , culminating in 2016 's humiliation , we embraced a conspiracy theory that Trump conspired with Russia and championed bureaucrats , Intel a saviors . " <p> " The weakness of the Left in the United States is so extreme that the ruling class has to invent a ' menace ' to the prevailing oligarchial order : The Russians , whose phantom agents are said to wage a twilight struggle to undermine faith in US institutions . Since no one believes that US leftists Like the Canadian , NDP variety have either the will or capacity to challenge the corporate regime , the Russians , have to fill the role of internal as well as external enemy - a daunting task on a meager Facebook budget of only $100,000 ... " <p> " Congressional investigators have confirmed that a top FBI official met with Democratic Party lawyers to talk about allegations of Donald Trump-Russia collusion weeks before the 2016 election , and before the bureau secured a search-warrant targeting Trump 's campaign . Former FBI general counsel James Baker met during the 2016 season with at least one attorney from Perkins Coie , the Democratic National Committee 's private law firm . <p> That 's the firm used by the DNC and Hillary Clinton 's campaign to secretly pay research firm GPS and Christopher Steele , a former British intelligence operative , to compile a dossier of uncorroborated raw intelligence alleging Trump and Moscow were colluding to hijack the presidential election . The dossier , though mostly unverified , was then used by the FBI as the main evidence seeking a Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act ( FISA ) warrant targeting the Trump campaign in the final days of the campaign ... " <p> " Congressional investigators have confirmed that a top FBI official met with Democratic Party lawyers to talk about allegations of Donald Trump-Russia collusion weeks before the 2016 election , and before the bureau secured a search-warrant targeting Trump 's campaign . Former FBI general counsel James Baker met during the 2016 season with at least one attorney from Perkins Coie , the Democratic National Committee 's private law firm . <p> That 's the firm used by the DNC and Hillary Clinton 's campaign to secretly pay research firm GPS and Christopher Steele , a former British intelligence operative , to compile a dossier of uncorroborated raw intelligence alleging Trump and Moscow were colluding to hijack the presidential election . The dossier , though mostly unverified , was then used by the FBI as the main evidence seeking a Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act ( FISA ) warrant targeting the Trump campaign in the final days of the campaign ... " <p> John F. Solomon is an American media executive and columnist . He is currently vice president of digital video and an opinion contributor for The Hill. 1 He is known primarily for his tenure as an executive and editor-in-chief at The Washington Times. 2 He has been accused of biased reporting in favor of conservatives , and of repeatedly manufacturing faux scandals. 34 <p> Everyone here posts from The Hill , not to mention NYT , WaPo and The Guardian . Are you suggesting only purely pro Democrat propaganda is acceptable ? I do not share this view and consider the US duopoly as evil on one side as the other . Furthermore , I can find multiple variations of this story across a range of sources . You ca n't wish away the truth just because you find it detrimental to your apparently chosen team . I notice you only ever make these comments on my posts , never the Louise Mensch posters etc . <p> " For The Times and Post and other mainstream media outlets , Russiagate has become it seems , a kind of cult journalism that no counter evidence or analysis can dint , and thus itself is a major contributing factor to the new and more dangerous Cold War . Still worse , what began nearly two years ago as complaints about Russian ' meddling ' in the US presidential campaign has become for the New Yorker and other publications an accusation that the Kremlin actually put Trump in the White House . For this reckless charge , with its inherent contempt for the good sense of American voters , there is no convincing evidence - nor any precedent in American history ... " <p> " On today 's episode of Loud &amp; Clear , Brian Becker and John Kiriakou are joined by Max Blumenthal , a journalist and bestselling author whose latest book is ' The 51 Day Wars Ruin and Resistance in Gaza , ' the senior editor of Grayzone Project , and co-host of the podcast Moderate Rebels . <p> Indicted Trump campaign official Rick Gates apparently requested proposals in 2016 from an Israeli company to create fake online identities , to use social media manipulation , and to gather intelligence to help defeat Donald Trump 's Republican primary challenges and , later , Hillary Clinton . The company is staffed by former Israeli intelligence officers ... " <p> " The only things Russiagate accomplished were expanding the military , manufacturing consent for internet censorship , smearing all dissenting political speech as Russian psyops , and making everyone dumber . Everyone who helped advance it should be mocked and marginalized forever . " <p> Russiagate was not bullshit . Why should we take one false extreme over the other in this story ? <p> We can believe both that the Russians were interfering to create instability AND that the US is a global threat to peace AND that the US is the greatest threat to Canada . Why must we assume either side is innocent ? <p> I do not think that Russians intended to help Trump for his sake . Their interest in him was that he is a force of instability - once they realized this he became an objective of their campaign . <p> This is not a binary issue : the US is terrible . That the Russians are doing something terrible themselves does not change that . It is not even about which is worse -- why does it matter ? <p> Why does it matter which side the Russians were interfering to help ? There are well supported claims that it was all sides -- they were promoting division until they realized just how awful he could be and that he could get elected . The fact that the US has a record of being the state with the greatest level of interference outside since the colonial powers occupied countries does not excuse Russia 's tactics . Even the fact that Russia may have done this due to previous aggression , does not make what Russia did okay . ( Russia was turned into a hostile country when it could have turned the other way by the actions of the US , Europe and NATO -- they could have been welcomed when they were trying to engage instead of being attacked and threatened . ) <p> I know this . But it does not make them not a threat now or excuse what they have done . <p> The fact that the greatest threat of election interference , and the greatest examples of it come from within , does not make their efforts okay . <p> I do n't really give much of a crap about the US now since I do not consider their electoral process as worth recognition or redeemable , but Canada is also vulnerable . It has to be concerned about threats from within in terms of interference , it has to be concerned about distortions of the process through financing , and it has to be concerned about interference from outside . <p> Pretending the Russians did not interfere in elections is not good for Canada , just becuase the Russians are not the greatest threat from outside to Canada ( that threat comes from the US ) . The experience with how the Russians did it exposes vulnerabilities . The motive of the Russians is actually less of a threat to Canada than the one from the US . They were seeking advantage from discord . Certainly the Russians could be a threat to Canada in the next election -- even if it is a much smaller threat than that coming from the US . <p> The threat from the US is also different : The Russians wanted advatnage by creating trouble . The US will likely use some of the same techniques to change the result in order to make the Canadian government more to its liking . What the Russians did may have been dirty but the technique they used against the US , if employed by US actors against Canada , threaten Canada 's independence ( whatever is left of it ) . <p> Pretending this did not happen is not going to help this . Taking sides is not either -- the techniques were cheap and can be used not just by a country whose leadership is hostile , but by any group within the country or outside . <p> Canada should be terrified about what the US right wing learned about this and how they might employ what they learned against us . So pretending that it was all bullshit is a very bad idea . Do n't even think that the Russians invented this -- the US used this type of tacic before , even if they were offended that it was used against them later . The US has more money , a greater interest , and more groups independent of their government capable of doing this to Canada . Plus Canada is an easier target becuase we are a smaller market . 
@@51276996 <p> I hope as the race continues to unfold Angus will give you cause to change your opinion of him . I understand &amp; appreciate what you 're saying , but I do n't see it the same way - for example , in the debate , he was n't against Ashton &amp; Julian 's call for free tuition , he just wants to see the numbers first , and see if it can make financial sense as a promise . He 's open minded , but wants all the details to back up policies before he 'll agree with them . Not necessarily a bad thing . Apart from that , I see him as a very warm , human communicator , who can connect with people on levels of emotion and trust . I think the public at large will like him very much , and when he gets out there as leader ( if he wins ) we may have our own version of Sanders or Corbyn . <p> Angus is neither a Corbyn nor a Sanders . A large part of their appeal is they spent decades of being a voice in the wilderness saying what history has proven to be right . Charlie has been a good MP for the last 13 years but trying to compare him to Corbyn would be a disasterous over reach during an election campaign . <p> Northern Ontario is not the multi-cultural , multi-racial uran areas that are home to many Canadian voters . I think his leadership skills in finding the winning formula for those all important ridings would be alot like his French . He will try but he just does n't have the background of actually working with diverse communities to win elections . <p> I think that Singh 's approach to pipelines has just taken him out of the race as a serious contender . His response showed a distinct lack of understanding of the importance of BC to the NDP federally . Again it is not just the policy also it highlights that he would not have a broad enough national vision to be an effective team builder . <p> The more I see of this campaign the more it seems that Julian is the best choice . He was a community organizer and Executive Director of the Council of Canadians prior to running and beating a Conservative MP . His constiuency team understands big city politics and we are going to need people around the leader that are tuned into that dempgraphic . Then there is his Quebec history and fluency in both official language . Both of these things will help him win back seats in Quebec if he can recruit solid candidates . <p> A federal New Democrat has lost his bid to force his way into the race to replace Tom Mulcair as party leader , but the wider ramifications might be the judge 's ruling that the inner workings of Canada 's political parties are not immune to court scrutiny . <p> In his decision , Divisional Court Justice Ian Nordheimer ruled the party acted reasonably in rejecting a leadership bid from Brian Graff -- in part over a 25-year-old criminal charge . <p> However , Nordheimer flatly rejected the New Democrats ' argument that the courts had no business taking the " extraordinary and unprecedented " step of meddling in " purely partisan political activity . " <p> Seems to me the judge was somewhat vague about judicial intervention in party decisions . I 'd be very curious to hear a hypothetical situation which the judge feels would warrant the court 's involvement . All he really seems to be saying is " never say never " <p> If the accusation was that I bribed the committee to stop someone else from running the courts might think it had passed the line into conduct that a Judge needs to review . <p> To put it a bit more generally , a judge might use the principle that evidence of a corrupt process or motive for the committee 's refusal to approve a candidate for leader would be required before interference would be justified . <p> Until Angus expresses a concrete intent to address s. 3.2(d) of the NDP Policy Book and stops undermining other candidates who have expressed an intent to address this section , he will get no support from me . So far , he has only expressed a concrete intent to partially address s. 3.2(e) . Granted , addressing every section of the policy book may not be possible , but he 's gone further and has encouraged members to even question the feasibility of this clause s. 3.2(d) in the policy book . <p> I agree that Julian seems to be a very good choice . Problem is that he comes across as your boring history teacher . He is getting better though . And his policies are great . Unfortunately in mock votes he is generally the first to go ( though mock votes do n't necessarily reflect reality . ) Here 's one such vote : <p> While I would not claim Peter is the NDP 's Corbyn I will point out that his detractors all said he was a boring speaker . What is more boring a history teacher or a retired accountant ? <p> Instead , Corbyn 's muddled sentiment about the unimportance of personality in politics -- a mantra of his leadership -- has framed the gradual failure of his political project . Hope does not morph into a more morally righteous ideal if it 's said by someone who sends you to sleep . In fact , throughout modern politics , the great and the good have shown the importance of charisma ; just ask Barack Obama and Martin Luther-King . <p> But Corbyn is n't interested in all of that . By contrast , Corbyn 's view of political campaigning -- which takes inspiration from the lethargy of a retired accountant -- has strangled his ideological vision . <p> It 's a leadership campaign . Who cares what Singh 's plan is if he loses ? I do n't see it as relevant or important at all . <p> I think it 's completely relevant . Is Singh just testing the waters , and hoping for the top job as leader , and if he does n't get it he wo n't bother to run to be a regular MP because that 's not good enough for him ? If he does n't win federal leadership will he just go back to the Ontario NDP and try his luck at leadership there when the opportunity arises ? Does he want to be part of the federal team or not ? It 's totally valid to me , and I am extremely unhappy in his avoidance of an answer . Frankly , I do n't like his attitude at all , in avoiding giving answers to questions that might be politically difficult for him . <p> I agree that Julian seems to be a very good choice . Problem is that he comes across as your boring history teacher . He is getting better though . And his policies are great . Unfortunately in mock votes he is generally the first to go ( though mock votes do n't necessarily reflect reality . ) Here 's one such vote : <p> While I would not claim Peter is the NDP 's Corbyn I will point out that his detractors all said he was a boring speaker . What is more boring a history teacher or a retired accountant ? <p> Instead , Corbyn 's muddled sentiment about the unimportance of personality in politics -- a mantra of his leadership -- has framed the gradual failure of his political project . Hope does not morph into a more morally righteous ideal if it 's said by someone who sends you to sleep . In fact , throughout modern politics , the great and the good have shown the importance of charisma ; just ask Barack Obama and Martin Luther-King . <p> But Corbyn is n't interested in all of that . By contrast , Corbyn 's view of political campaigning -- which takes inspiration from the lethargy of a retired accountant -- has strangled his ideological vision . <p> A message to the party leadership candidates from over 80 academics , community leaders and organizations <p> quote : <p> It is in this spirit that we , the undersigned , send this letter . We send it in the hope of energizing a stagnant conversation within your circles on this issue , and to appeal to your unique history of progressive leadership . We are indeed at a watershed moment that will be looked back upon and scrutinized for stories of principled conviction . Let the story of the NDP on Palestine be one that we all can praise . <p> With that intent , we propose that the New Democratic Party of Canada commit to the following , both in opposition and in government : <p> condemning Israeli settlements as a violation of international law and as an impediment to a just resolution ; <p> calling upon the State of Israel to halt any further settlement construction , respect the political and civil rights of its Palestinian citizens , pursue a fair solution to the plight of Palestinian refugees , lift its blockade on Gaza and end its military occupation of the Palestinian Territories ; <p> calling upon legitimate representatives of the State of Israel and the Palestinian people to negotiate in good faith a just resolution that respects the spirit and intentions of UNGA Resolution 194 and UNSC Resolution 242 ; <p> pursuing and supporting the use of diplomatic and economic means to exert pressure on the State of Israel in such a manner as to achieve a just resolution . This includes ..... <p> If you 're with the NDP , then you 're part of the team . I do n't see the rationale for making a distinction between the Ontario NDP and the federal NDP ( IE , because Singh is an MPP means he 's not part of the federal team -- I do n't buy it ) . When Tommy Douglas was invited to run for leadership of the federal NDP , he was still leader of the Saskatchewan CCF/NDP . No doubt had Douglas been campaigning against Angus , that Angus would have been haranguing him to declare that he 'd quit the Saskatchewan CCF regardless of whether he won or lost the federal leadership . <p> Generally , if someone interviews for a position as , say , Director of Finance , they probably wo n't be expected to apply for a job in the accounting pool if they do n't get the Director job " to prove their loyalty to the company " . People are generally allowed to aspire to a job that they feel is at their level . <p> What 's telling , I think , is that nobody seemed to be urging Singh to run for an MP seat prior to his candidacy for leader , so I do n't think anyone really cares , other than to try to back him into a corner . <p> I just unsubscribed from Singh 's email list ( in the middle of the debate , because of his dodging the questions ) - there 's your solution . <p> The thing that bothered me with Singh 's email list is that I should n't have been on it in the first place . Every other candidate whose emails I receive , I 've either given them my email address personally or given it to their campaign manager . I 've never interacted with anybody from Singh 's team or given his campaign site my address . His team apparently just dumped the entire party database from Populus for their personal use , which , if not actually against the rules ( I 'm not sure ) , seems at least on the border of objectionable . I , too , unsubscribed . <p> Manitoba MP Niki Ashton is the fiercest candidate . Ontario MPP Jagmeet Singh comes across as the coolest . Ontario MP Charlie Angus is clearly trying to be the straight-talkin ' candidate . Quebec MP Guy Caron is the most cerebral . British Columbia MP Peter Julian did n't really stand out with a clear identity <p> I just got a call from Ashton 's team asking if I 'd like to volunteer . There should be nothing surprising about that , since I 've already donated to her campaign , but it impressed me that organizationally they 're on the ball and that they were n't calling to ask that I donate more money . Both , regrettably , are rare in my experience of the NDP in recent years . <p> With that intent , we propose that the New Democratic Party of Canada commit to the following , both in opposition and in government : <p> The NDP has already committed to : <p> Working with partners for peace in Israel and Palestine , respecting UN resolutions and international law , supporting peaceful co-existence in viable , independent states with agreed-upon borders , an end to Israeli occupation of Palestinian land , and an end to violence targeting civilians . <p> Which appears to cover those four points in fewer words . The real question is will the leadership stand by the policy . <p> While I would not claim Peter is the NDP 's Corbyn I will point out that his detractors all said he was a boring speaker . What is more boring a history teacher or a retired accountant ? <p> Instead , Corbyn 's muddled sentiment about the unimportance of personality in politics -- a mantra of his leadership -- has framed the gradual failure of his political project . Hope does not morph into a more morally righteous ideal if it 's said by someone who sends you to sleep . In fact , throughout modern politics , the great and the good have shown the importance of charisma ; just ask Barack Obama and Martin Luther-King . <p> But Corbyn is n't interested in all of that . By contrast , Corbyn 's view of political campaigning -- which takes inspiration from the lethargy of a retired accountant -- has strangled his ideological vision . <p> That article is from August of 2016 . Corbyn turned out to be far less boring than that author expected . <p> That was my point . Julian is getting less stilted all the time . I think trying to out do Trudeau on the basis of charisma is a route to failure . The NDP needs a credible leader to provide policies that resonate with our youth and working class , Corbyn really took off when his Manifesto was announced . <p> Stogran 's a pain in the neck that just wo n't go away , hurling vague accusations , providing no evidence , refusing to lodge an official complaint , and trying to smear the campaign and party in general , all while complaining he 's been treated unfairly . <p> While I would not claim Peter is the NDP 's Corbyn I will point out that his detractors all said he was a boring speaker . What is more boring a history teacher or a retired accountant ? <p> Instead , Corbyn 's muddled sentiment about the unimportance of personality in politics -- a mantra of his leadership -- has framed the gradual failure of his political project . Hope does not morph into a more morally righteous ideal if it 's said by someone who sends you to sleep . In fact , throughout modern politics , the great and the good have shown the importance of charisma ; just ask Barack Obama and Martin Luther-King . <p> But Corbyn is n't interested in all of that . By contrast , Corbyn 's view of political campaigning -- which takes inspiration from the lethargy of a retired accountant -- has strangled his ideological vision . <p> That article is from August of 2016 . Corbyn turned out to be far less boring than that author expected . <p> That was my point . Julian is getting less stilted all the time . I think trying to out do Trudeau on the basis of charisma is a route to failure . The NDP needs a credible leader to provide policies that resonate with our youth and working class , Corbyn really took off when his Manifesto was announced . <p> I think that Niki is the furtherst left of the candidates , and therefore would have the most claim to be a Sanders/Corbyn type candidate . Part of the Sanders/Corbyn phenomenon was how they reclaimed the mantle of socialism , as well as their explicit claims that their respective parties were too far to the right . So far , Niki is the only candidate in the NDP leadership race who has done this . <p> Peter certainly could be a Sanders/Corbyn type candidate if he wins the leadership ; however , I reject the idea that he is the de facto Sanders/Corbyn type candidate in this leadership race . <p> NDP leadership candidate Charlie Angus says his opponents in the race are too focused on pipeline politics , and proposes that Canada adopt a " carbon budget " to curb emissions in the long term instead of squabbling over particular resource projects . <p> " The only discussion we 've had on the environment is ' this pipeline versus that pipeline . ' There 's no talk about how we get to move forward or laying out the roadmap , " Angus said in an interview Wednesday . <p> " I 'm saying : ' Let 's look at the horizon and where we need to be , and let 's lay out the plan of how to get there . ' " <p> I think that Niki is the furtherst left of the candidates , and therefore would have the most claim to be a Sanders/Corbyn type candidate . <p> Niki could fairly be called the furthest left , but I think equating her to Sanders is missing the mark . She is very much a party insider , while Sanders spent his entire political career as an independent . And that distinction means something to the voting public although perhaps not to present company . <p> NDP leadership candidate Charlie Angus says his opponents in the race are too focused on pipeline politics , and proposes that Canada adopt a " carbon budget " to curb emissions in the long term instead of squabbling over particular resource projects . <p> " The only discussion we 've had on the environment is ' this pipeline versus that pipeline . ' There 's no talk about how we get to move forward or laying out the roadmap , " Angus said in an interview Wednesday . <p> " I 'm saying : ' Let 's look at the horizon and where we need to be , and let 's lay out the plan of how to get there . ' " <p> Northern Ontario is not the multi-cultural , multi-racial uran areas that are home to many Canadian voters . I think his leadership skills in finding the winning formula for those all important ridings would be alot like his French . He will try but he just does n't have the background of actually working with diverse communities to win elections . <p> I do n't think that 's a fair criticism as Angus has deep roots in Toronto where he started a punk band and was active in the Catholic Worker movement . He 's certainly raised a lot of his money here . He was born in Timmins but moved to Toronto at 18 and did n't move back until he was almost 30 . He has continued to spend a lot of time in the big city since then . Layton recruited him to the party and I see Angus much more as Layton 's political heir than Mulcair 's . <p> I agree Angus is not an " outsider " in the same way as Corbyn or Sanders , although since the NDP has never held power federally and none of the leadership candidates have particularly strong ties to any provincial NDP government , in a sense ALL of the leadership candidates are " outsiders . " <p> Angus plans to release his plan to tackle climate change on Thursday , and his campaign provided it in advance to the Star . <p> The plan is centred on a " carbon-budget " proposal , which Angus compared to the system in place in the United Kingdom . He said it would work like a hard cap on emissions , which would be mandated by legislation and determined on a sector-by-sector basis by a panel of experts and stakeholders . <p> Angus would also create a new crown corporation to advise Ottawa on where to invest money for clean technology and renewable energy , and , in this way , " take the politics " out of climate-change planning . <p> " Twenty years , we 've talked about how we 're going to meet our international targets . There 's all kinds of positive platitudes , and no plan , no direction for it , and , year after year , the greenhouse gas emissions continue to rise , " Angus said . <p> I think that Niki is the furtherst left of the candidates , and therefore would have the most claim to be a Sanders/Corbyn type candidate . <p> Niki could fairly be called the furthest left , but I think equating her to Sanders is missing the mark . She is very much a party insider , while Sanders spent his entire political career as an independent . And that distinction means something to the voting public although perhaps not to present company . <p> Well , if being an " outsider " is one of your criteria for being a Sanders/Corbyn type candidate , then neither Niki nor Peter would qualify . <p> .. there has never been a shortage of plans to transform our world . the problem has always been political will and financial priorities . <p> .. capping/pricing emmissions is a false solution and it is clear that they will not work unless corresponding actions are taken . some of those actions are : <p> - not to allow for the expansion of the tar sands and that is what stopping the pipelines is all about along with the other issues that come from building them . <p> - implementing and enforcing undrip. this action alone is a powerful tool to transition and the right thing to do . it slows down extraction processes and gives people time to think , study and be democratic . <p> - massive investment in public transit . hopefully free transit . <p> .. so folks do know and understand the way forward . the need is for action/implementation not yet another study . <p> For decades , Liberal and Conservative governments have implemented weak and inefficient plans to lower Canada 's greenhouse gas emissions . Since 1990 , Canada 's GHG emissions actually went up by 18 per cent . The current Liberal Plan wo n't meet our Paris Accord commitments . <p> Canada needs to focus on where we need to be as a nation and the steps that are required to get us there . We need a bold new approach to begin taking real action against climate change . That 's why I 'm promising to bring in a Federal Carbon Budget , a proven approach to reduce GHG emissions and drive innovation . The plan has four key steps : <p> Legislate a Federal Carbon Budget that places a hard cap on emissions over a five year period which is then allocated to different sectors and subsectors of the economy . <p> Establish an independent National Carbon Budget Council , made up of scientists , experts , industry , Indigenous leaders and other stakeholders who will consult and determine , by sector , what can be accomplished to reduce emissions at least cost , taking account of available technologies and government policy . <p> Create a new government agency to help fund , implement and facilitate the actions required in the budget . Participating provinces , municipalities , First Nations , and other public organizations will have access to these resources to help meet the targets . <p> Finally , eliminate federal subsidies to the oil and gas sectors and replace them with financial incentives to industry to reduce their GHG emissions . <p> This will not only spur the creation of more low carbon , green infrastructure , but will create jobs and add to our economy . It will provide a stable long-term plan that provides certainty to governments , industry , our international partners , and all Canadians . <p> We know this approach works . The UK has been using this method since 2008 and they have dropped their emissions by 38% and added over $143 billion annually to their economy . <p> Angus has deeper roots in the party , and Mulcair had more potential to keep Quebec . <p> Beyond that , it seems like that 's the ground that Angus is deliberately cultivating . <p> Pragmatic vs aspirational <p> Incremental , lukewarm change <p> Most status quo of the candidates <p> I 'm noticing that the people who were big into Mulcair are big into Angus . There is a whole wing of the party that felt betrayed by the Edmonton convention . The people who thought we really needed to keep Mulcair seem to me to be skewing heavily towards Angus . <p> Maybe I am noticing the similarity because Angus has front runner status right now as Mulcair did . <p> I 'm noticing that the people who were big into Mulcair are big into Angus . There is a whole wing of the party that felt betrayed by the Edmonton convention . The people who thought we really needed to keep Mulcair seem to me to be skewing heavily towards Angus . <p> Maybe I am noticing the similarity because Angus has front runner status right now as Mulcair did . <p> I was thinking the same thing , but about Singh . Maybe that 's because of the media coverage and Singh surrounding himself with Mulcair 's people . <p> Angus has deeper roots in the party , and Mulcair had more potential to keep Quebec . <p> Beyond that , it seems like that 's the ground that Angus is deliberately cultivating . <p> Pragmatic vs aspirational <p> Incremental , lukewarm change <p> Most status quo of the candidates <p> I 'm noticing that the people who were big into Mulcair are big into Angus . There is a whole wing of the party that felt betrayed by the Edmonton convention . The people who thought we really needed to keep Mulcair seem to me to be skewing heavily towards Angus . <p> Maybe I am noticing the similarity because Angus has front runner status right now as Mulcair did . <p> I 'm noticing that the people who were big into Mulcair are big into Angus . There is a whole wing of the party that felt betrayed by the Edmonton convention . The people who thought we really needed to keep Mulcair seem to me to be skewing heavily towards Angus . <p> You could n't be more off-base with me , wage zombie ... I have always been adamantly against Mulcair . I think he 's been a terrible leader , and I do n't trust a word he says ( he has always come off as either a very bad actor , or an out-and-out liar to me ) . I 've slammed him countless times here . And I have also decided that Angus is at the top of my list for this new leadership campaign . <p> I have seen no examples on here of people who were " big into Mulcair " also being " big into Angus " . Have I missed something , or are you just relating anecdotal personal experiences ? <p> I also agree with Josh that it 's unfair to call Angus " Mulcair 2.0 " - Mulcair was a Liberal and never seemed comfortable in the NDP ; there 's no question that Angus has been a strong NDPer for as long as his politics have been known . 
@@51287769 <p> " Brian Mulroney was an appalling prime minister , appalling . But if I had to pick one prime minister over the other between Harper and Mulroney , I would pick Mulroney. " -- Stevie Cameron , author of On the Take , the 1994 bestseller about corruption during the Mulroney years . <p> In the summer of 2010 , U.S. President Barack Obama , British Prime Minister David Cameron and other world leaders arrived at a swanky resort located two hours north of Toronto to take part in the annual G8 Summit . As it turned out , the resort lies in the riding of then federal Industry Minister Tony Clement . <p> At that time , no one knew that Clement had lifted $50-million from the public purse -- money originally allotted by parliament for alleviating congestion at Canada 's borders -- and spent it beautifying his Parry Sound-Muskoka riding on things like parks , walkways , toilets and gazebos . He would later claim the money was dispersed for the G8 Summit . <p> But when Auditor General Sheila Fraser investigated what happened to the $50-million , she could find little paperwork showing how it was decided the money be spent . Documents later unearthed through the Access to Information Act showed Clement was encouraging mayors in his riding to apply for this cash prior to the 2008 election -- and used federal civil servants to help dole it out . The NDP later accused Clement of using the money as a " slush fund " to better his chances of getting re-elected . <p> Still , when the $50-million scandal broke in 2011 , Clement was not dropped from cabinet or even reprimanded . Instead , Prime Minister Stephen Harper put him in charge of the Treasury Board -- the very entity designed to oversee spending , ethics and accountability in government . That same year , the Conservatives chopped 92 auditing positions from the civil service . <p> " On the Clement case , team Harper 's strategy appears to be to simply ride out the criticism , " wrote Globe and Mail columnist Lawrence Martin at the time . " Stonewall the media and the opposition until fatigue with the issue has set in and everyone moves on . It has worked in the past . It will likely work now . " <p> In fact , unlike his predecessors , Harper has seemed Teflon-like in respect to how corruption scandals have clung to him . Even the trial of Senator Mike Duffy has not dented his veneer to any great extent -- although this may soon change . <p> Yet corruption is among the litany of reasons why Stephen Harper might go down in history as Canada 's worst prime minister ( a case we began to make here in Part 1 of this two-part series ) . <p> A more recent example of Harper 's proclivity for corruption was buried in the 2015 budget . After the government got rid of the long gun-registry in 2012 , the RCMP was ordered to destroy its records . By then , however , an access to information request for this data had been made . The RCMP eviscerated the information anyway -- which is a criminal offence if an access request is being processed . Suzanne Legault , Canada 's information commissioner , recommended charges be laid against the responsible RCMP members -- which included high-ranking officers . <p> But in its most recent omnibus bill the Harper government simply rewrote the access laws retroactively to erase the RCMP 's mishandling of gun registry records -- in order to protect these officers from facing criminal charges . <p> This , of course , sets a precedent of simply arbitrarily changing laws in order to protect political allies . According to Legault : " We could , for example , with this bill , set a precedent whereby , if there were findings of electoral fraud , the government could just pass a law and say : ' No , these provisions never applied . ' " <p> This kind of behavior is one reason Christian Nadeau , a political philosopher at the Universit ? de Montr ? al and author of a 2010 book about Harper , Rogue in Power , says the Harper government is " an unjust government and an anti-democratic government ... It 's a whole enterprise of rebuilding not only the institutions but the political culture in Canada . Ten years ago the actions of the Tories would be seen as something very bad and very unacceptable . But now what they 're doing seems normal . " <h> His corruption record <p> When investigative journalist Stevie Cameron -- who wrote two books about the Mulroney era -- compares Harper and Mulroney on their corruption track records , she says : " Mulroney was a crook and corrupt but I do n't think Harper is corrupt financially . I think he 's corrupt in so many other ways ... I do n't think he 's interested in money . I think he 's much more interested in power and secrecy . " <p> Take the Senate spending scandal , which has so far embroiled Tory senators Mike Duffy , Pamela Wallin and Patrick Brazeau . Initially this story seemed straightforward -- senators abusing the public purse by spending money on non-Senate related business and travel . <p> But what 's also emerged are the lengths Harper and his staff have gone to try and bury the scandal . First there was $32,000 allegedly offered by the Conservative Party 's fundraising arm to cover Duffy 's travel expenses . And then there was Nigel Wright , Harper 's chief of staff , ponying up $90,000 to do the same thing . <p> In 2013 , the Senate hired the auditing firm Deloitte to look into the expense claims of certain senators , including Duffy . When Duffy 's audit was finished , the report on its findings was diverted to the Prime Minister 's Office where it was revised before being sent on to the Senate . Two Tory senators assisted with the alterations . <p> " I always felt that the most important part of the Duffy fiasco is not the dubious expenses of a cheese-eating monkey like Duffy , " says journalist Michael Harris , author of Party of One , last year 's bestseller about Harper 's reign , " but the fact that the prime minister reached into the Senate in the middle of the forensic audit and got the published report before the Senate did and got changes through controlling the committee of internal economy ... What we had was the act of undermining another body of Parliament in an outrageous way that goes to the heart of this guy 's psyche . " <p> What 's also been lost in the Senate scandal was the fact that senators like Duffy and Wallin were using their taxpayer-funded positions to bankroll their jobs as fundraisers for the Conservative Party . Duffy , in particular , was the star speaker at fundraising events and Tory riding associations across Canada . For example , in the summer of 2009 , he hosted a $100,000 town-hall event for Harper in Cambridge , Ontario . He hosted a telethon hall for Julian Fantino in 2010 during the by-election that sent the former Toronto police chief to Ottawa . <p> " Comparing the Harperites to the Chretien Liberals , I 'd say they 're probably equal in appetite , " says Bate . " The Liberals had better table manners , a sense of how much they could get away with . The Tories just dig in with both hooves , like there 's no tomorrow . " <p> Other scandals of note during Harper 's tenure include : <p> The F-35 jet fighter contract . The plan was to buy 65 of Lockheed Martin 's F-35 fighters with the Tories claiming the price tag would be $9-billion to purchase and $7-billion to maintain . Yet the contract was never put out to tender -- even though Canadian law requires this must happen for major defense purchases . A 2012 Auditor General 's report said the government did not conduct a fair competition or proper due diligence . Moreover , when the government signed an agreement with Lockheed Martin in the fall of 2006 , unlike previous agreements , this one did not guarantee a minimum amount of production be done in Canada . <p> Soon the price tag became wishful thinking . The Parliamentary Budget Officer Kevin Page estimated the fighter would actually cost nearly $30-billion over 30 years . The Harper government condemned Page , even though he was vindicated by estimates drawn up by the Auditor General . Page even said the Harper government appeared to be keeping two sets of books on the F-35 - one in secret , and another for the public . One other estimate suggested the total cost could be as high as $126 billion -- or $110-billion more than the Tories originally said . Yet the Tories refused to answer questions about these estimates , and religiously stuck to the story the planes would cost less . Only after years of denial did the government shelve the order for the time being . <p> The in and out scandal . During the 2006 election , the Tories were accused of getting around spending limits by transferring money between the party and its riding offices . Having reached their $18.3-million spending limit , the Conservatives transferred $1.3-million to 67 ridings , which then funneled it back to the national party to spend on advertising . An investigation of this laundering was stymied by Tories sitting on the Standing Committee on Procedure and House Affairs . In 2011 , four members of the party ( including two senators ) were charged for their involvement in the scheme -- and the party forced to repay $230,198 . Nigel Wright , Harper 's former chief of staff , was listed among those involved . <p> Bruce Carson influence-peddling scandal . A former senior adviser in Harper 's PMO , Carson was a disbarred lawyer who had gone to jail for numerous charges of fraud prior to joining Harper 's inner circle . In 2012 , Carson was charged with influence-peddling following allegations he 'd lobbied ministerial staff at the Department of Aboriginal and Northern Development on behalf of his then fianc ? e ( and former escort ) , Michele McPherson , who acted as an intermediary for an Ottawa-based water purification company H20 Pros . McPherson stood to earn commissions from any sales to First Nations reserves . Last year , the RCMP hit Carson with more charges of illegal lobbying . <h> His foreign policy record <p> Brian Mulroney gave an interview with CTV 's Power Play last summer where , among other things , he lambasted the Harper government for its record on foreign affairs . <p> " When Canada , for the first time in our history , loses a vote at the United Nations to become a member of the Security Council . . . to Portugal , which was on the verge of bankruptcy at the time , you should look in the mirror and say : ' Houston , I think we have a problem , ' " said Mulroney . " We 're in the big leagues ... so we have to conduct ourselves in that way . We ca n't be out-riders . " <p> Mulroney also chastised Harper for his poor relations with U.S. President Barack Obama , suggesting the prime minister does n't have the kind of close ties that allow him to call the Oval Office and ask for bilateral back-up . " If you ca n't do that , you do n't have much clout internationally . " <p> Indeed , back in 2010 , when Canada sought a seat on the UN 's Security Council and lost to Portugal -- the first time in 50 years Canada had never gained a seat -- it reflected how other nations had become appalled with Harper 's foreign policy . <p> First off , there was his move away from giving aid to Africa . In fact , under Harper , aid was increasingly doled out based less on need as much as economic opportunity for Canadian companies . In 2013 , the Canadian International Development Agency ( CIDA ) was dissolved . Last year , Harper also announced he would prohibit Canadian funding for safe , legal abortions in poor countries . <p> Under Harper , Canada 's peacekeeping force has been almost eradicated . Once the world 's number-one provider of peacekeeping personnel , Canada now ranks 67th on the UN 's peacekeeping contributors ' list , or a grand total of 122 people . " We 've gone from being a major contributor to a situation today where we 're an insignificant contributor at a time when UN peacekeeping is at an all-time high , " says Peggy Mason , president of the Rideau Institute , an Ottawa-based foreign policy and defense advocacy group . <p> " Every indication of the Harper government is they have no interest in peacekeeping -- which is part and parcel of their hostile attitude towards the UN . " <p> Harper has also displayed hypocrisy when it comes to China . When first elected prime minister in 2006 , he routinely condemned China 's human-rights record and promised to not trade " Canadian values " for the " almighty dollar . " By 2010 , Harper had changed his tune , allowing Sinopec , the Chinese petroleum giant , to buy a stake in Syncrude that permits it to decide whether its bitumen is refined in Canada or shipped abroad . Two years later , Harper did not stop the Chinese state-owned oil company CNOOC from buying the Calgary-based resource company Nexen for $15.1-billion . <p> Moreover , there are pipelines that will send bitumen from the oil sands to China -- including Northern Gateway and Kinder Morgan -- which the Harper government has wholeheartedly endorsed . <p> Even more alarmingly , Harper secretly signed the Foreign Investment Promotion and Protection Agreement ( FIPA ) with China while attending an APEC summit in Vladivostok , Russia in 2012 . What 's the problem with this agreement ? <p> China has invested over $30-billion in the Canadian energy sector alone , and its companies are significant investors in the Enbridge Northern Gateway pipeline . Yet the FIPA agreement would allow China to sue Canada if the pipeline was not built . <p> " Chinese investors can sue Canada for any actions by the federal government or the B.C. government ( or legislature or courts ) relating to Chinese assets connected to the Enbridge Northern Gateway pipeline , " Osgoode Hall law professor and investment treaty expert Gus Van Harten told The Vancouver Observer last September . Van Harten argued that the deal was not only disadvantageous to Canada , but also potentially unconstitutional . <p> " More troubling , there is no requirement in the treaty for the federal government to make public the fact of a Chinese investor 's lawsuit against Canada until an award has been issued by a tribunal . This means that the federal government could settle the lawsuit by paying out public money before an award is issued , and we would never know . " <p> One small B.C. First Nation , the Hupacasath , issued a legal challenge in 2012 against FIPA , arguing that the deal threatened constitutionally protected Indigenous land rights , and that it was signed without any consultation . The Federal Court and Federal Court of appeal dismissed the case , claiming any claims of FIPA 's impact were " speculative . " <p> Despite widespread public opposition in Canada from citizens , First Nations and businesses , FIPA was quietly ratified in September 2014 , locking Canadians into the deal with China until 2045 . <p> Meanwhile , one of Harper 's most polarizing foreign policy causes has been Israel . As Israel has grown increasingly isolated due to its treatment of the Palestinians in the Occupied Territories -- as well as building illegal settlements on this land -- the Harper government has become one of the country 's most zealous supporters . <p> Since Harper became prime minister , Israel has invaded Lebanon -- killing up to 1,125 Lebanese ( as compared to 159 Israelis ) and launched two invasions of the Gaza strip , the first in 2008- ' 09 that led to 1,434 Palestinian casualties ( as compared to 13 Israelis ) and then last year , leading to 2,139 Palestinian deaths and 11,000 wounded ( as compared to 73 Israeli deaths and 556 wounded ) . <p> In 2010 , when six Turkish ships set sail for Gaza to deliver 10,000 tonnes of humanitarian aid to relieve Israel 's blockade , Israeli commandos stormed the boats in international waters and killed 10 activists . <p> Despite international condemnation over what was seen as Israel 's overkill in these instances , the Harper government has consistently rushed to Israel 's defense and been quick to brand Palestinians and their organizations as " terrorists . " <p> " From my personal point of view , I would have a great deal of respect for Mr. Harper if he had taken a more balanced view in that sphere , " says Bernie Farber , former head of the Canadian Jewish Congress . " To drive wedge issues between the Jewish and Palestinian communities is not in my view the way to do politics in this country ... We have to find things that bring us together as opposed to driving us apart . " <p> Harper at Western Wall in Jerusalem , January 21 , 2014 . CP photo . <p> Harper has a close affinity with the current government of Israel , led by the hard-liner Benjamin Netanyahu , although Netanyahu 's party won only 23 per cent of the vote in the most recent election . Moreover , during that campaign , Netanyahu pledged to never negotiate a two-state solution with the Palestinians and made thinly racist comments on the eve of the vote , saying " Arab voters are heading to the polling stations in droves " as a warning to voters to back his Likud party . <p> In fact , Canada has sided with Israel to thwart Palestinians efforts to have their own state : in 2012 , Canada was only one of nine countries in the UN that voted against Palestinians achieving statehood . Since 2007 , it has cut off aid to the Palestinian Authority , voted against all UN resolutions recognizing the rights of Palestinians and complained bitterly when Palestine was admitted as a full member state to UNESCO . <p> Not surprisingly , Harper 's foreign policy has alienated Canada 's Arab and Muslim communities . The government doggedly fought to keep Omar Khadr behind bars , although he was only 15 when involved in a firefight in Afghanistan that led to the death of a US soldier . In 2009 , the federal government cut its $1-million annual funding for the Canadian Arab Federation ( CAF ) due to the organization 's criticisms of Israel . <p> Conservative fundraising letters in recent months have disparaged Muslim women wearing niqabs at citizenship oath ceremonies , saying " they should embrace our culture " and " that 's not the way we do things , " and even referencing Al-Shabaab threats against Canada in their ads . <p> " For years the Canadian government had charted a reasonable , unbiased or not strongly biased attitude towards Muslims , " says Atif Kubursi , former president of the National Council on Canada-Arab Relations and emeritus professor of economics at McMaster University . " But when Mr. Harper came there was a major shift . " <p> And then there is Harper 's decision to send fighter jets to Iraq to do battle with ISIS , costing $360-million this year . The Chr ? tien government refused to send troops to Iraq in 2003 , recognizing it was a foolhardy venture . Moreover , evidence has since emerged that the American invasion so destabilized Iraq it helped give birth to ISIS and other jihadist groups . " I think Harper 's bombing of ISIS is a completely wrongheaded strategy that is ineffective , counter-productive and possibly playing into the hands of ISIS , " says Peggy Mason of the Rideau Institute . " Number one -- the bombing campaign does n't work . And ISIS uses it to recruit people from all over the region -- not just foreign fighters . " <p> In fact , the war on ISIS has also been used by the Harper government to whip up support for its draconian Bill C-51 anti-terrorism legislation , stoking fears about terrorist attacks on Canadian soil on the eve of the October election . <h> His cultural record <p> Stephen Harper has never hidden his contempt for the cultural sector . During the 2008 election he claimed that " ordinary people " do n't care about arts funding and have no sympathy for " rich " artists who gather at galas to whine about their grants . By then he 'd cut $45-million to arts and culture programs . <p> So it 's no surprise that the one main cultural institution Harper seems determined to destroy is the CBC . When Ian Morrison , the long-time spokesperson of Friends of Canadian Broadcasting , is asked to characterize the Harper government 's attitude towards the CBC , he replies : " Number one -- subterfuge . If there is a hidden agenda and there are 50 items on that hidden agenda , CBC is near the top . " <p> Morrison says during the 2011 election Tory candidates professed support for the CBC but promptly began " sabotaging " it once the election was over . Indeed , in his 2012 budget , finance minister Jim Flaherty immediately cut $115-million from the CBC 's budget . <p> Even before Harper became prime minister , the CBC was one of the most poorly-funded public broadcasters in the world . Canada 's level of government support for the CBC ranks near the bottom compared with that of other Western industrialized nations : A 2006 report showed that Canada stood 16th out of 18 nations in per-capita funding of public broadcasters , at $33 per citizen , compared with an average of $80 . <p> At the time Harper became prime minister , the CBC 's operating budget was down to $1.1-billion ( all figures in 2014 dollars ) and peaked at $1.15-billion in 2007 . Since then , it 's steadily declined and now stands at $929-million and is set to continue to fall . The CBC says it will cut 25 percent of its workforce by 2020 -- or up to 1,500 jobs . <p> In 2013 , the federal government surreptitiously placed the CBC under the Financial Administration Act , making it subject to review by the Treasury Board . This means the board can scrutinize how the CBC spends its money , in particular on labour . " The impact of that was to give the Treasury Board a supervisory role over management , " says Morrison . <p> Harper also stacked the CBC 's board with his political supporters . Since 2007 , the CBC has been presided over by Tory donor and lawyer Hubert T. Lacroix , who used to work at the Canada 's most powerful corporate law firm , McCarthy T ? trault , as a business attorney . Lacroix has embraced , without complaint , every effort by the Harper government to downsize the CBC . Meanwhile , nine of the CBC board 's 11 members are Tory donors , most of whom have business or corporate law backgrounds . <p> The ideological shift at the CBC under Harper has been noticeable too , where pro-business shows have proliferated while investigative programs have been cut . <p> Harper has also attacked Canada 's historical institutions . In 2012 , Harper chopped the budget of the national library and archives , making it more difficult for historians to research the country 's past . " The library and archives have almost been destroyed by this government , " says Ian McKay , a professor of history at Queen 's University . " The cuts to the archives were breathtaking -- not cuts to some people but cancelation of whole programs . The things that got saved were anything to do with military history . " <p> Moreover , McKay says the Harper government has also changed our citizenship guide to reflect a narrow , pro-military and pro-business view of Canadian history , " very much emphasizing Canada 's role in war and showing that true Canadian heroes are warriors . " <p> Harper also changed the Museum of Civilization in Ottawa to the Museum of Canadian History , which emphasizes Canada 's role in military engagements . " They have taken a world-class museum facility and focused on a particular martial aspect , " says McKay . <p> When asked about Harper 's overall legacy , McKay replies : <p> " I would say it has been an unmitigated disaster . I do n't think we 've ever had a prime minister who 's failed to articulate , to the extent this one has , a vision of the country . He 's essentially ruled the country as a CEO and given Canadians zero inspiration . I would be hard-pressed to find one moment where Harper has made us feel proud of Canada . " <p> Yup , Trudeau has a marvelous record . He is driving up our debt , taking away our rights as citizens and is too chicken s**t to do anything about the hostage situation in the Philippines . Tell me this , how many of you wish to travel to the Philippines these days ? Ask the poor family of John Riddell , who had his head severed , because Trudeau wo n't send in a team to rescue him . But Trudeau knows how to through himself around in Parliament . And now , how safe do you feel when letting your kids use public washrooms ? Syrian refugees have not been properly screened . The incident in the Toronto recruiting center for the armed forces proved this one . A knife wielding extremist injured two soldiers , while screaming Allah . And now , it appears he is friends with George Soros , who has no dammed business sticking his nose into our countries affairs . I do n't need any longer to see his track record . His track record is bad now , what will it be like in 2 years time ? I hope you are hanging your heads in shame for voting him in . That is , while you still have a head to hang ..... <p> Here are a few tips on how best to do this:Click Here For Organization Ideas Keep your house as clutter free as possible.To treat the eruption , Cheap Authentic Jerseys Sale , it 's best to get out of the swimsuit as soon as possible . Although they are not ' hot spots ' , they are on the minds of countless tourists and if they are not , they should be : Coyaba River Garden and Museum : The Jamaican-Spanish architecture is really quite stunning and the water garden simply amazing.Read more aboutHome Organization Ideas , and also watch out on home organisation tips for your needs . This is also the reason why later a promotion would also be a lot easier . Author Resource : -Norton coupon code lets you save a whole lot of moolah on Norton . If you are lucky enough to have a yard that offers good shade pools ( from trees or other natural sources ) you can make great use of these , but even if you do not have any shade trees or other shade producing features it is easy to establish small areas - for instance , rock gardens and shade gardens which use lattice roofs to provide shade for small outdoor sitting and recreational areas . A popular hockey sport played on ice is the ice hockey game . Designing a system to make more efficient use of water ( i.Cheap Vintage Jerseys Sale.webs . This is also the reason why later a promotion would also be a lot easier . Author Resource : -The use of escort service is very popular and famous in the world.Cheap Nike NFL Jerseys Sale.Visit my 
@@51295690 <h> You are here <p> rabble blogs are the personal pages of some of Canada 's most insightful progressive activists and commentators . All opinions belong to the writer ; however , writers are expected to adhere to our guidelines . We welcome new bloggers -- contact us for details . <h> Izzeldin Abuelaish 's book gives new perspective on Middle East policy <p> Exactly three years ago , Israel attacked the Gaza Strip . It is of course quite impossible to write anything about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict without being accused of bias by someone , and the Gaza war is no exception . But here are what I believe to be agreed facts . <p> Israel stated the attack was to stop rockets being fired from Gaza into Israel . Since 2001 , thousands had been launched resulting in 28 Israeli deaths and hundreds of casualties . The Gazans responsible said they were justified in attacking Israel as an occupying power . <p> During the three-week operation , 1,200 to 1,400 Palestinians and 13 Israelis were killed . Of the 13 , three were civilians and ten soldiers . Of the Palestinians , about 700 were civilians , 250 of them younger than 16 . All fighting occurred on Gaza soil . Four thousand homes were destroyed by the Israeli Defence Forces . Tens of thousands were left homeless . Many observers , including Israeli human rights groups and a UN commission , found the Israelis guilty of using seriously disproportionate force . <p> Despite these findings , Stephen Harper 's government offered its usual unconditional support for Israel and showed its usual indifference to the plight of the Palestinian people of Gaza . <p> Among the Palestinian civilian dead were three daughters , aged 21 , 15 and 14 , and a 17-year old niece , of Izzeldin Abuelaish . Dr. Abuelaish was born and raised in a refugee camp in the tiny , squalid Gaza strip and Gaza remained his home until last year . He now holds a position at the University of Toronto 's school of public health . <p> " Thick , unrelenting oppression touches every single aspect of life in Gaza , " he writes in his remarkable little book , I Shall Not Hate : A Gaza Doctor 's Journey . It is " a human time bomb in the process of imploding . ... Gazans are trapped . ... The frustration and humiliation were a constant burden . " As in any description of Israel-Palestine relations , always that key word reappears : humiliation , the relentless humiliation of powerless Palestinians by Israelis , utterly disconnected to any legitimate Israeli security concerns . <p> Yet despite all the obvious obstacles , Dr. Abuelaish became a medical doctor specializing in obstetrics and gynecology and infertility . He also became the rare Palestinian doctor who worked in both Israel and the Gaza Strip and who had many good friends in Israel , mostly doctors . Nevertheless , even for him every single trip between Gaza and Israel was another protracted experience in humiliation at the hands of Israeli soldiers . <p> On Sept. 16 , 2008 , Dr. Abuelaish 's wife , mother of his eight children , died from acute leukemia after a very brief illness . He was on a working trip in Europe and the story of his frantic attempt to return is one long Israeli-imposed logistical nightmare . At last he arrived at her bedside , in an Israeli hospital , in time to be with her when she died . The children were not allowed to leave Gaza to be with their mother at the end . <p> On Dec. 27 , the Gaza war began with an air strike by Israel . Dr. Abuelaish and his family were all in Gaza . What followed , he writes , was Israel 's " scorched earth policy " and the " wanton destruction " of the Gaza Strip . He derides " the blind stupidity of attacking the citizens of Gaza and claiming the rampage was aimed at stopping the rockets being fired into Israel . " <p> On Jan. 16 , exactly four months after his wife died , two Israeli rockets were fired into his daughters ' bedroom in the home where his extended family were attempting to hide from the Israeli bombardment : <p> There was a monstrous explosion .... Suddenly it was pitch dark , something was sucking the air out of me , I was suffocating . ... I realized the explosion had come from my daughters ' bedroom . ... The sight in front of me was something I hope no other person ever has to witness -- the body parts of my daughters and niece . <p> Dr. Abuelaish then describes , in clinical , detached yet unbearable detail , the precise horror of the scene before him . <p> After a period of lies and denials by Israelis about what happened , he reports that the Israeli government finally took responsibility " for wrongly targeting my home and killing my daughters , but it has never apologized and no official has ever said ' I 'm sorry ' . " <p> The nightmare was not yet over . After his daughters and niece were killed , Dr. Abuelaish travelled to Israel where other family members who had been wounded in the same attack were in hospital . But the Israelis would not allow him back in Gaza in time for the burial of his children . Nor were his daughters allowed to be buried beside their mother because , he writes , " Israeli soldiers said no one was allowed to go into that area . " <p> Here is where Dr. Abuelaish 's story moves to dimensions beyond the extraordinary . In an introduction to the book , Marek Glazerman , a leading Israeli doctor , articulates what all must wonder : Izzeldin Abuelaish seems too good to be true . " Having lost his daughters , how can he still speak about love and peace and keep his Israeli friends ? " Yet this is exactly what he does : <p> Let my daughters be the last to die . ... If I could know that my daughters were the last sacrifice on the road to peace between Israelis and Palestinians , then I would accept their loss . ... What we need is respect for each other and the inner strength to refuse to hate . Then we will achieve peace . <p> As a Muslim with deep faith , I fully believe what is from God is for good and what is bad is man-made and can be prevented or changed . ... The Quran taught me ... to forgive those who create the man-made injustices that cause human suffering . This does not mean that we do not act to correct those injustices . <p> Let there be no misunderstanding here . Dr. Abuelaish has no illusions about Hamas , its brutality , corruption and authoritarianism . But he also shows that for the Palestinian people -- his people -- the chief obstacle to peace and dignity is Israel . He repeatedly and harshly criticizes Israel for its treatment of Palestinians and presents evidence from many credible sources , including the International Committee of the Red Cross , documenting the miserable conditions of life in Gaza , a virtual prison controlled by Israel . <p> Yet even so , he forgives Israel for its trespasses , even -- unbelievably enough -- for the deaths of his family and his lifetime of humiliation at their hands . <p> It seems to me that no normal person can read this book without being both moved and influenced . It 's very short and can be read in a couple of holiday afternoons . If Stephen Harper , John Baird and Jason Kenney were to do so , with an open mind , it 's inconceivable that they would not review their Middle East policy with a new and balanced perspective . <p> After all , at this time of year we 're permitted to dream of miracles . <p> Epilogue <p> An excerpt from a poem by Anael Harpaz , an Israeli woman who met Dr. Abuelaish 's daughters at a peace camp . It is dedicated to his eldest , Bessan , dead at age 21 . <p> More people are reading rabble.ca than ever and unlike many news organizations , we have never put up a paywall -- at rabble we 've always believed in making our reporting and analysis free to all , while striving to make it sustainable as well . Media is n't free to produce . rabble 's total budget is likely less than what big corporate media spend on photocopying ( we kid you not ! ) and we do not have any major foundation , sponsor or angel investor . Our main supporters are people and organizations -- like you . This is why we need your help . You are what keep us sustainable . <p> rabble.ca has staked its existence on you . We live or die on community support -- your support ! We get hundreds of thousands of visitors and we believe in them . We believe in you . We believe people will put in what they can for the greater good . We call that sustainable . <p> So what is the easy answer for us ? Depend on a community of visitors who care passionately about media that amplifies the voices of people struggling for change and justice . It really is that simple . When the people who visit rabble care enough to contribute a bit then it works for everyone . <p> And so we 're asking you if you could make a donation , right now , to help us carry forward on our mission . Make 
@@51316484 <h> Never-before-seen footage sheds light on Golda Meir <p> Months before her death in 1978 , Golda Meir gave an interview on Israeli TV . After the program ended , the cameras kept rolling . One of her interviewers lit a cigarette for her , while the other asked if she ever had time to read a book or watch a movie during her five-year tenure as the fourth prime minister of Israel . <p> " No one can hear us , so I can say it , " she said . " There was n't a month of peace and quiet on the battlefront or the political front to enjoy life as any civilized person deserves . " <p> So opens the new documentary , Golda , directed by Sagi Bornstein , Udi Nir and Shani Rozanes , which debuts at the Hot Docs cinema in Toronto on Jan. 3 . The 90-minute film relies on this surprisingly lengthy off-air interview , plus historical footage and commentary by scholars and associates , to provide a comprehensive , if overly critical , examination of the legacy of one of the world 's first elected female leaders . <p> The filmmakers have good reason to be critical . A dark side looms over every significant moment of Meir 's leadership . She was ostensibly a feminist icon , but in reality , she rejected gender politics altogether and appointed no women to her cabinet . She rose through the ranks of the Labor party with huge left-wing support , but when she met with social-justice activists from the Israeli Black Panthers , she was blunt and dismissive , further alienating them from mainstream Israeli society . <p> And then , of course , came the Munich Olympics , in which pro-Palestinian terrorists held hostage and murdered 11 Israeli athletes , and the Yom Kippur War , which many Israelis felt the government was n't prepared for . The war , in particular , caused Meir to resign from office after five years . <p> The directors harp on Meir 's narrow-mindedness and arrogance -- she had the option of engaging in peace talks with the Egyptians months before war broke out , but chose not to trust them . The newly elected Egyptian president , Anwar Sadat , offered a peace deal if Israel returned to its pre-1967 borders , specifically so Egypt could regain the Sinai Peninsula . Meir refused . <p> " She did suggest a political settlement based on compromises , " Hagai Zoref , from the Israel State Archives , said in the film . He added , however , that " she never gave the impression that it was very important to her . " <p> Years later , after thousands died in the Yom Kippur War , Menachem Begin , the first prime minister from the right-wing Likud party , would share the Nobel Peace Prize with Sadat for enacting a very similar deal . <p> Meir 's stance on the West Bank and Gaza was similarly hawkish . She preferred to keep the regions at bay , maintain the status quo and slowly build Israeli settlements , despite international opposition . <p> " I do n't need an additional Arab population with the Arab world that surrounds us . It would be an irredenta like no other in history , " she revealed in the off-air interview . <p> " But I do n't want it to be part of Israel . I do n't want them to be Israeli citizens . I do n't want , like in Lebanon , to wake up in the morning and count : was it a Muslim or a Christian born last night ? Then they say , ' Oh , she 's against Arabs . ' I am not against Arabs . But people are lying if they say they do n't care whether we 're a majority or a minority . " <p> Audiences unfamiliar with these events would do well to read up on them beforehand , as the film moves briskly , at times feeling more like a history lecture than cinema . Rather than use her biography as a chronological narrative spine , the directors flip back and forth between her personal story and the 1978 interview , using her comments to introduce each chapter . <p> It 's an engaging plot device , but also a confusing one , especially for anyone unfamiliar with the facts . But for those who follow Israeli history , Golda is a fascinating and personal dive into one of the country 's most storied political figures . 
@@51316487 <h> Fauda third season opener a big hit in Israel <p> The first episode of the third season of the hit Israeli drama Fauda was viewed by Israelis about 1 million times in the 48 hours after it first aired . <p> The Israeli drama , in Hebrew and Arabic , received a 12.6 per cent share of viewers during its debut on Thursday night , according to a trade website , citing the YES satellite company . <p> Fauda focuses on a commando unit of the Israeli Defence Forces whose members embed themselves in the Palestinian community , gathering intelligence and preventing terror attacks . Netflix has aired its first two seasons with English subtitles . The third season will be aired on Netflix sometime in 2020 . <p> The third season reportedly will focus its attention on Gaza . <p> The show was broadcast Thursday night on the YES Action Channel and then was available on YES VOD and on the YES YouTube channel . <p> Its creators are Avi Issacharoff , the Arab affairs reporter for the English-language Times of Israel news website , and actor Lior Raz , who stars in the show . Both men served in the IDF unit depicted in the series . <p> Last week the series was ranked eighth on The New York Times list of the 30 best international television shows of the decade . 
