@@31503874 <h> War of nerves <p> President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad at a rally to mark the 33rd anniversary celebrations of the Islamic revolution , at Azadi Square in Teheran on February 11 . He said that Iran had broken the " idol " of the Holocaust underpinning the creation of the Israeli state. -ATTA KENARE/AFP <p> The West , along with Israel , is racheting up threats of an attack , but Iran appears unfazed . <p> REPORTS appear every other day in the Western media about an imminent Israeli strike against Iran . The Barack Obama administration keeps on repeating that all options are on the table against Iran . The United States armed forces have begun their biggest amphibious landing drill in the Persian Gulf region in more than a decade . The Pentagon recently doubled the number of aircraft carriers in the region . U.S. military and spy drones have been flying over Iran for some time now . Late last year , Iranians brought down a sophisticated U.S. drone . <p> The Israeli media are full of stories about the build-up of American troops in two small Gulf islands near the Strait of Hormuz . Israeli Defence Minister Ehud Barak , one of the architects of the massacre in Gaza three years ago , said in early February that the window for an effective military strike on Iran was rapidly closing because of the continuing development of uranium enrichment centrifuges by that country . Israeli Vice Prime Minister Moshe Yaalon declared that his country was confident of hitting any facility in Iran it chose to , saying that he was speaking from his experience as a former head of the Israeli armed forces . <p> French President Nicolas Sarkozy added his belligerent voice to the war discourse by saying that an attack on Iran would be justified if the country continues its senseless race to get the bomb and threaten its neighbours . Sarkozy seems to have conveniently forgotten that in the modern era , Iran never started a war . It has always been a victim of aggression . It was the West and the Arab monarchies that encouraged Saddam Hussein to attack Iran in 1980 , leading to the eight-year war , which led to the loss of more than a million Iranian lives . <p> Teheran appears to be unfazed by the ratcheting up of threats from the West . President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , speaking on the occasion of the 33rd anniversary of the Iranian revolution , said that the Islamic Republic would soon announce some very important achievements in the nuclear field . <p> The Supreme Leader , Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , also reiterated that Iran would never give up its rights to a peaceful nuclear programme . Iran has been consistently stating that as a signatory to the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty ( NPT ) it has every right to pursue a peaceful nuclear programme . All of Iran 's nuclear facilities , including those engaged in uranium enrichment , are monitored by the International Atomic Energy Agency ( IAEA ) to ensure that weapons-grade uranium is not produced . <p> Khamenei warned the West against undertaking a military adventure , saying that if hostilities broke out , it would be 10 times deadlier for the Americans than it would be for Iran . Reacting to threats from Israel , he said the country was a cancerous tumour in the region , which had to be removed . <p> U.S. Secretary of Defence Leon Panetta told the media in Brussels in early February that there was a strong likelihood of Israel attacking Iran by the middle of the year . On December 20 , Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Gen. Martin Dempsey told CNN that a whole range of options were being examined for military action against Iran . I am satisfied that the options that we are developing are evolving to a point that they would be executable if necessary , he said . The right-wing government in Israel would like nothing better than precipitating a war with Iran . The hawkish government in Israel has coldly concluded that the Obama administration , readying itself for re-election later in the year , will have no other option but to finish the war that Israel wants to start . But the realists in the Obama administration know that Iran is not like neighbouring Iraq , which they could occupy in a couple of weeks . President Obama , trying to tone down the talk of imminent war , said in the first week of February that the Israelis had not yet decided their course of action against Iran . He emphasised that the two countries would work in lockstep , as we proceed to solve this , hopefully diplomatically . Meanwhile , the Republican contenders for the U.S. presidency , with the exception of Ron Paul , are carrying on with their refrain of bomb , bomb Iran . <p> On the nuclear issue , the Iranian people are united as never before . The neighbouring Arab monarchies are no doubt tacitly supporting the psychological and economic warfare being currently waged by the West against Iran , but they realise that Iran too has many cards to play . The Shia populations in these countries are already restive and are demanding their democratic rights . Senior Iranian officials have warned that if war breaks out , the Iranian army will target the U.S. military bases littering the Gulf countries . If shipping is affected in the choke point of the Strait of Hormuz , global oil prices are bound to shoot through the roof . Even the American consumer could be left with a big hole in his pocket during an election year . This will be detrimental to Obama 's chances of winning a second term . <p> On a parallel track , the U.S. has been trying desperately to arm-twist traditional friends and trading partners of Iran , like India , to implement the unilateral sanctions imposed by the West . When India 's Foreign Secretary , Ranjan Mathai , was in Washington recently for talks , the U.S. State Department spokesperson , Victoria Nuland , told reporters that how India might find alternative sources of energy was among the important issues discussed . She said that the U.S. was trying to implement a two-track policy , both to encourage countries to wean themselves from Iranian oil , but also to work with suppliers around the world to help countries find alternative sources of energy . <p> The Saudi Arabian government has promised to ramp up the production of oil in order to meet any shortfall in case Iranian oil is forced out of the international market . Iran has described the unilateral sanctions imposed by the West as part of the psychological warfare being waged against it . In the first week of February , the Obama administration gave more powers to U.S. banks to freeze Iranian assets and close loopholes that would make it even more difficult for the Iranian government to transfer funds through international banking channels . Iran 's Vice-President , Mohammed Reza Rahimi , defiantly reacted to the latest set of sanctions by saying that Iran would make the sanctions ineffective , as it has done in the past , and will continue selling oil . <p> The sanctions , meanwhile , are beginning to affect the lives of ordinary Iranians . The Iranian rial has registered a steep decline against the dollar in recent months , leading to high inflation and rise in the prices of basic imported goods such as medicines . <p> ISRAELIS FROM DIFFERENT organisations holding banners calling on the government not to attack Iran , during a protest in front of the Ministry of Defence in Tel Aviv on February 9. -ODED BALITY/AP <p> India is among Iran 's biggest buyers of oil and gas . Senior Indian policymakers say that though the country 's dependency on Iranian oil is decreasing , Iran will continue to be a major supplier . Twelve per cent of India 's crude imports are from Iran . In January , India became the biggest importer of Iranian oil , displacing China . The announcement by the Indian government that it was planning to send a large trade delegation to Iran to strengthen economic ties has angered Washington . Commerce Secretary Rahul Khullar told the media in Delhi that India was implementing the United Nations-mandated sanctions against Iran but emphasised that the sanctions did not apply to a vast range of products India supplies to Iran . <p> With Iran agreeing to payment in rupees and other unconventional methods like barter trading , Indian officials made it clear that India would not be pressured by the West into taking steps that would have an adverse impact on the national economy . For that matter , even Pakistan has struck a defiant note . Despite open warnings from the U.S. , Pakistan has announced that the work on the gas pipeline with Iran will continue . Washington was more successful with New Delhi on the gas pipeline issue . Under pressure from the Bush administration , India had withdrawn from the Iran-Pakistan-India ( IPI ) project , saying that it was economically unfeasible and would give Islamabad undue leverage on the country 's energy security . Under American pressure , many major private Indian companies such as Reliance suspended their contracts with Iran for the supply of refined gasoline . <p> The Obama administration is naturally unhappy with India 's decision to broaden economic ties with Iran at this juncture . U.S. Congressmen have started raising the issue . Senator Robert Menendez , a Democrat speaking at the confirmation hearing for the Obama administration 's nominee for the Ambassador 's post in New Delhi , Nancy J. Powell , said that India seems to be rebuking the sanctions imposed by the West on Iran . <p> Senior Indian officials insist that they will continue dealing with Iran . They point out that until recently the West was urging India to cut economic ties with Myanmar in order to isolate the government there . Today , it is the West which is leading the charge to invest in that country . Indian officials predict that this situation will replicate itself in Iran within a couple of years . 
@@31504268 <h> COGAT head stresses that Hamas ca n't demand to search for terrorists missing in tunnel blast if it wo n't show progress on status of kidnapped Israeli soldiers and civilians . <p> A top Israeli general said Israel will not allow authorities in the Gaza Strip to search for five missing terrorists in the border area between Israel and the small coastal enclave without progress on the issue of Israelis thought to be held in Hamas 's captivity . <p> Israel destroyed a tunnel leading into its territory from Gaza on Monday , leaving seven dead , at least 12 injured and five missing . In the 2014 Gaza war , Palestinians used similar tunnels to carry out attacks against Israel . <p> At some point over the past couple of days , the Hamas-run Civil Defense in Gaza asked the International Committee of the Red Cross to request permission on its behalf from Israel to search for the missing individuals in the border region , the Hamas-linked al-Rai website reported on Thursday . <p> Israel maintains a buffer zone along its border with Gaza that extends dozens of meters in the Strip . According to Gisha , an Israeli human rights group , Palestinians who enter the buffer zone risk being shot . <p> After communicating with the Red Cross chief in Israel and the Palestinian territories Jacques De-Maio , Coordinator of Government Activities in the Territories Maj.-Gen . Yoav Mordechai said in a statement on Thursday that Israel " will not allow for locating the terrorists in the tunnel without progress on the issue of missing and captive Israelis . " <p> Hamas is believed to be holding captive the bodies of two Israeli soldiers -- Hadar Goldin and Oron Shaul -- as well as three Israeli civilians , Avraham Abera Mengistu , Hisham al-Sayed and Juma Ibrahim Abu Ghanima . <p> The Islamist movement has said it would like to negotiate a prisoner swap with Israel , but has conditioned those talks on Israel releasing dozens of prisoners , who were rearrested after being set free in the 2011 Schalit prisoner exchange . <p> Tzur Goldin , Hadar 's brother , said Israel should use the five missing people to apply pressure on the group to release his brother . " This is the opportunity we have been waiting for to bring back Hadar and Oron , " Tzur told Channel 2 News on Thursday . <p> A Hamas official slammed Israel 's decision , asserting that it is not " humanitarian . " <p> " Setting this condition affirms that this entity Israel does not act in a humanitarian way . This is just another one of many Israeli war crimes , " said the official , who spoke on the condition of anonymity . <p> The official also said that while he believes Israel 's position " will exacerbate tensions , " it likely " will not lead to a new confrontation . " <p> Since Israel destroyed the tunnel , Hamas has exercised restraint , holding off from carrying out a reprisal . <p> Hamas Politburo chief Ismail Haniyeh said the response to the tunnel demolition should be to advance reconciliation efforts . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31504269 <h> With the legally embattled Benjamin Netanyahu teetering on his throne , a succession battle is effectively under way . <p> Speculating about an emperor 's successor , or even just the time of his death , was a capital offense in ancient Rome , wrote author Gore Vidal before proceeding to scorn this attitude 's inversion , Americans ' habit of discussing a president 's succession the day he enters the Oval Office . <p> Of the two choices , Israel 's ruling party has traditionally leaned toward the Roman . <p> Now , however , with the legally embattled Benjamin Netanyahu teetering on his throne , a succession battle is effectively under way , even though talk within the party of his departure is not much safer than forecasting a Roman Caesar 's demise . <p> Having had only four chairmen in its 46 years , Likud never unseated its elected leader , allowing them instead to depart voluntarily , the way Yitzhak Shamir did after losing the 1992 election , or the way Menachem Begin did in 1983 , in the wake of the First Lebanon War , not to mention the way Ariel Sharon left in 2005 , when he established a competing party . <p> Challenging the party leader the way , for instance , Labor 's Shimon Peres and Yitzhak Rabin did to each other alternately last century always backfired in Likud . Ezer Weizman 's quest to replace Begin in 1980 ended with the former 's ouster from the party , and Sharon 's undermining of Shamir later that decade resulted in his being sidelined . <p> Challenging the leader these days should have been altogether unthinkable , considering the length of Netanyahu 's current incumbency -- a decade and eight months -- and his good health , all of which under normal circumstances would have prevented all talk of succession , let alone usurpation . <p> Alas , circumstances are not normal , on two planes : legally , Netanyahu has been indicted , and politically , he has failed twice within half a year to form a coalition . <p> This is the backdrop against which the previously unthinkable happened November 21 , when MK Gideon Sa'ar said the Likud must hold a primary election for its leadership , and that he will run in it against Netanyahu . " I think I can form a government and unite the people , " he told a recent Jerusalem Post Diplomatic Conference . <p> The statement was wry , in both tone and wording , and its argumentation was impersonal and amoral , avoiding criticism of Netanyahu 's personality or mention of his legal entanglement , saying only that Netanyahu lost the ability to form a government , and a new election will not restore what he has lost . <p> Even so , that statement fired the starter pistol , and now the runners in the race for Netanyahu 's inheritance are off , with one pair ahead of the pack , at least seven others stranded well behind them , and one forgotten contestant emerging from the rear , well positioned to surprise the rest . <p> The timing of Netanyahu 's unfolding departure leaves out of the race a slew of potential contenders , both from within and without Likud . <p> Outside the ruling party , current circumstances play against the aspirations of three : Avigdor Liberman , Naftali Bennett , and Ayelet Shaked . <p> Liberman has lost the ability to bid for Likud 's leadership . In a party where loyalty is a supreme value , the former defense minister 's imposition of the early election that produced the current political impasse is perceived not as stratagem but as betrayal . <p> As recently as 2013 , Liberman seemed like Netanyahu 's anointed successor when his Yisrael Beytenu party commanded 15 Knesset seats and ran for election on a joint ticket with Likud . <p> That federation 's breakup by the next election , and Liberman 's subsequent resignation as defense minister , still left alive the prospect of him ultimately returning to Likud and assuming its leadership . Recent months ' events have put paid to all such talk.Not only has Liberman -- as Likud members see things -- personally tripped Netanyahu and thus helped his downfall , he is challenging the party 's historic alliance with the ultra-Orthodox , and in fact positions himself even to the left of Labor on issues of religion and state . <p> The case of Naftali Bennett is similar except his longer-term chances , unlike Liberman 's , remain alive . <p> The former hi-tech entrepreneur 's gambit last year -- when he left Bayit Yehudi 's leadership in order to form the New Right -- failed colossally when the new party failed to cross the electoral threshold . Conventional wisdom at the time was that the move was designed to create a diving board from which a reinforced Bennett would eventually join Likud and run for its leadership , and , by extension , Israel 's . <p> Bennett subsequently returned to the Knesset through his previous party , this time under the leadership of his longtime ally Ayelet Shaked . The relevance of the two was restored , but not the power they wielded back when they were , respectively , Netanyahu 's education and justice ministers . <p> It was in this context that Netanyahu now appointed Bennett as defense minister , following reports that he was negotiating a defection to Blue and White leader Benny Gantz 's fold . This outcome leaves Bennett within Likud 's camp , and thus shorn of the disloyalty label that precludes Liberman 's candidacy . <p> However , Bennett 's electoral fiasco last spring deprives him of the other attribute contenders for Likud 's leadership must display : power . Bennett knows this , and realizes that his task in upcoming years will be to accumulate power , a goal that takes time -- which at 47 he still has -- until he can stage a future bid . <p> The same goes for Shaked . The software engineer who crafted conservative jurists ' appointments as High Court justices is popular across the ideological right , but is in no position right now to join the race for Likud 's leadership . Then again , at 43 , she has time to join Likud and build her way up its ranks . <p> Lastly , among the outsiders comes Moshe Kahlon . The 59-year-old finance minister who stormed the center-right electorate in 2015 and emerged with 10 Knesset seats seemed at the time as a natural contender for the leadership of the Likud , where his political career began . <p> Born to Libyan immigrants and raised with six siblings , Kahlon personifies Likud 's working-class constituency and also that electorate 's social mobility , having proceeded from the slums of Givat Olga where he was born and raised to a Haifa University degree in political science , a law degree from Netanya College , and a successful term as Netanyahu 's communications minister from 2009-2013 . <p> However , as finance minister , Kahlon faded politically when his faction gradually fell apart , while his delivery at the Treasury , underscored by a deep budget deficit , is seen as an economic failure and a political flop . <p> The electoral aftermath of all this , a 60% plunge , resulted in his return to the Likud , and rumors of plans for an early retirement . Succeeding Netanyahu , he realizes , is no longer in the cards . <p> Within Likud 's fold , there are five other would-be candidates that current circumstances leave out of the race . <p> The most prominent of these is Regional Cooperation Minister Tzachi Hanegbi , 62 , who has been a lawmaker for an aggregate 28 years since 1988 ; held six different cabinet portfolios during 10 years as a minister ; and served as prime minister Yitzhak Shamir 's bureau chief in the 1980s . <p> Though widely appreciated for his experience and balance , Hanegbi lost much of his party base last decade , when he followed Ariel Sharon to Kadima , and while at it backed the retreat from Gaza . <p> Another possibility could have been Energy Minister Yuval Steinitz , 61 , a published philosopher , former finance minister , and a lawmaker since 1999 , who earned kudos for engineering the complex regulation that now governs the mining of Israel 's newly found offshore gas . <p> Despite these credentials , the uncharismatic Steinitz also lacks a party base , and is seen as Netanyahu 's personal political project , whose emergence in politics was fully his master 's doing . Though he has nothing to do with Netanyahu 's scandals , his status is prone to suffer from Netanyahu 's downfall , much the way it benefited from his ascent . <p> Then comes Public Security Minister Gilad Erdan , an eloquent , 49-year-old lawyer who has also been a member of all governments since 2009 , and unlike Steinitz has some following among Likud 's members . <p> However , Erdan 's performance as the minister in charge of Israel Police has disappointed many as he appeared indecisive , repeatedly failing to appoint a police chief whose tenure would be both lasting and effective . The current acting commissioner , Motti Cohen , has been awaiting a commissioner 's formal appointment for nearly a year . <p> The " Performance Syndrome " also plagues Likud MK Nir Barkat 's candidacy , because his delivery during a decade as Jerusalem 's mayor is perceived as mediocre . Worse , from his viewpoint , his mere several months as a lawmaker and none as a minister render his candidacy premature . <p> Finally , among the non-candidates , there is Culture and Sports Minister Miri Regev , who said last year that " it 's time for a woman prime minister , " albeit not immediately , but " after the Netanyahu era . " The 54-year-old former IDF Spokesperson has made a lot of populist headlines in her four ministerial years , but is seen in the party as a political novice who is unfit to enter Netanyahu 's shoes.Gideon Sa'ar 's candidacy lacks the non-candidates ' drawbacks , and on the face of it , has what they lack . <p> Having been minister of education and interior , he is experienced ; a trained lawyer , he has also been an effective legislator ; and he enjoys broad support among the party 's membership and apparatus . That is how Sa'ar 's challenging of Netanyahu quickly won the backing of three mayors -- Carmel Shama-Hacohen of Ramat Gan , Shimon Lankri of Acre , and Yitzhak Danino of Ofakim -- all veteran diehard Likudniks . <p> The three , whose constituencies are all within the Green Line , were then joined by Yossi Dagan , head of the Samaria Regional Council , who said " Sa'ar is a worthy and principled leader . " The four were joined by the mayors of Israel 's northernmost and southernmost towns , David Azoulai of Metulla and Meir Yitzhak Halevi of Eilat . <p> This backing reflects Sa'ar 's popularity among varied constituencies , from the geographic periphery 's working class through the moneyed elite of Ramat Gan to settlers in the West Bank . The one flaw in Sa'ar 's gambit is what his rivals depict as disloyalty to Netanyahu . <p> Chief among these is Foreign Minister Israel Katz , a lifelong politician and arguably the most powerful man in Likud 's administration , as head of its secretariat for the past 15 years . <p> The 64-year-old Katz brings an additional asset : his record as transportation minister during a decade in which he multiplied Israel 's highways and railways while reducing air travel prices by encouraging competition . <p> The burly Katz 's consequent image is of an authoritative and efficient administrator who knows to get big and complex projects done , a record that Sa'ar for now lacks , whether due to a lack of ability or a lack of opportunity . <p> The 61-year-old former prisoner of Zion is believed to be eyeing not the premiership , but the presidency , following the end of Reuven Rivlin 's term in summer 2021 . Then again , like his soft-spoken manner , Edelstein 's relatively limited ambition is , paradoxically , an asset that might land him on Netanyahu 's throne as unintentionally as Gerald Ford landed on Richard Nixon 's . <p> An Edelstein premiership would be fraught with symbolism , a spectacular journey from a Siberian gulag to the Jewish state 's command that would embody the Zionist idea . At the same time , it would also bring a spirit of modesty that Katz and Sa'ar equally lack , not to mention who one of these three is likely to soon succeed . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31513867 <h> The dogs of war <p> Print edition : January 05 , 2002 T+T- <p> The Vajpayee government is provoking a military confrontation which could have devastating consequences for both India and Pakistan . <p> THE prospect of war menaces India and Pakistan as thousands of troops , missiles , tanks and heavy artillery are deployed on the border , and as the rhetoric of mutual hostility is ratcheted up with each passing day . The military build-up is vastly larger than the preparations before and during the Kargil war . Greater too is the use of devious political argument and varied forms of pretence and deception . This last category includes the show of injured innocence by the leaders of the two countries . <p> Thus , Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee told a Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha rally on December 25 that India " does not war " ; war is being " thrust " upon it . Home Minister L.K. Advani took the same line . But their government is daily cranking up its belligerent anti-Pakistan rhetoric . On December 27 , it upped the ante for the second time in a week by taking tough diplomatic measures against Pakistan . There are signs that India has arbitrarily broadened its agenda and now wants Pakistan to take " effective " action against all terrorist groups , not just against the Lashkar-e-Toiba and the Jaish-e-Mohammed . It has rejected Pakistan 's December 26-27 moves , including the detention of 30 militants , as " cosmetic " and insincere . <p> The Vajpayee government has also contemptuously dismissed the suggestion that it should share with Pakistan the evidence of the LeT 's and the JeM 's culpability for December 13 . At the same time , it charges Pakistan with failure to discharge its " responsibility " . It says Pakistan is not doing " enough " to fight terrorism , but does not say what constitutes " enough " . It increasingly appears unreasonable . This unreasonableness goes back to September 11 and even earlier . It bears recalling that India was peeved when President Bush first demanded that Musharraf join the so-called " international coalition " against terrorism , or face the consequences . India protested against Pakistan 's inclusion and proposed that a " Concert of Democracies " , excluding Pakistan , should be the right agency to fight terrorism . <p> According to highly placed sources in the defence services , the Vajpayee government had made , well before September 11 , a plan to launch punitive attacks against Pakistan across the Line of Control . The " October 20 Plan " was inspired as much by the Bharatiya Janata Party 's communal antipathy towards Pakistan as by its desire to " teach Islamabad a lesson " for fomenting terrorism in Kashmir . September 11 put paid to this scheme . Other aggressive plans were also made under Vajpayee , as part of its " pro-active " Kashmir policy . <p> The Vajpayee government is now planning just such a misadventure under Right-wing pressure related to Uttar Pradesh politics . Many political commentators have long suspected this . Now there is strong evidence . On December 20 , Vajpayee was grilled for two hours by Rajnath Singh at a meeting attended by top-ranking leaders of the BJP and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh including L.K. Advani , Murli Manohar Joshi , Jana Krishnamurthy and Kushabhau Thakre . ( The Telegraph and The Asian Age , December 22 . ) They reportedly told him that all of Rajnath Singh 's Hindutva work in Uttar Pradesh would be wiped out unless India launches military strikes to show that it is not a " soft state " . War may be the BJP 's sole vote-winning device after it has lost all its trump cards . If the BJP loses Uttar Pradesh , the ramshackle National Democratic Alliance could itself come tumbling down . <p> Given its visceral hostility towards Pakistan and aggressive past plans , the Vajpayee government is being sanctimoniously hypocritical in claiming that it " does not war " . In reality , it is making all the belligerent moves . It is painting itself into a corner as it takes a tougher and tougher line , from which it will find it hard to climb down . The logic of this position is , simply put , war . <p> Nothing could be more undesirable in strategic , social , political and economic terms , or more unproductive as regards India 's stated objective of countering terrorism , than war . To demand that a military attack on Pakistan , however limited in range , must be averted at all costs is neither to minimise the gravity of what happened on December 13 , nor ignore Islamabad 's overall complicity in terrorist activities , especially in Kashmir . Rather , the rationale of the argument is that India 's diplomatic options are broader and worthy of trial . It is India 's duty to explore and develop them fully . <p> The top brass of India 's armed forces is opposed to the use of military force in today 's circumstances . It has repeatedly expressed this reluctance in the Cabinet Committee on Security and even in public statements . This is also the mood among a majority of retired Generals and Admirals who have publicly commented on the issue , including V.P. Malik , L. Ramdas , V.N. Sharma , Shankar Roychowdhury , V.R. Raghavan and Afsir Karim . The restraint they advocate contrasts sharply with our political leaders ' sabre-rattling . <p> In fact , we may be witnessing the first disconnect since Independence in perceptions between the country 's political and military leaders . Even when Sam Maneckshaw offered to quit over pressure to attack East Pakistan prematurely in early 1971 , he disagreed with Indira Gandhi over the timing , not the basic military strategy . <p> The services chiefs reportedly believe that attacks on Pakistani territory will yield poor results while carrying high risks . Our forces lack accurate information on the location of such few " training camps " as remain after most were shifted deep into Pakistan . ( Most Kashmir militants do not undergo rigorous training which needs elaborate and permanent facilities , as opposed to temporary parade/drill grounds and firing ranges . ) Given the information constraints , high-altitude air strikes will be largely ineffective . Low-flying planes will be vulnerable to ground fire . Most suspect camps are beyond the range of heavy artillery . <p> That leaves the options of " pro-active " ground attacks and " hot pursuit " . These are fraught with high casualties . " Hot pursuit " over land , as distant from the sea , is legally problematic unless it is subsumed under self-defence . Any ground-troops operation is likely to escalate . Today there can be no " limited war " or swift " surgical " strikes between India and Pakistan . Given their relative strategic parity , any military confrontation will last several weeks . This might mean opening up many fronts , on some of which India is vulnerable . <p> An Indian attack will certainly trigger Pakistani retaliatory strikes . Musharraf can not afford to be seen cowed down by India . After the Taliban 's defeat , and the collapse of Islamabad 's quarter-century-old Afghanistan policy ( including its reversal by him ) , he has no option but to hit back hard . Already he is facing flak from the religious Right for " selling out " to the Americans and losing the " strategic depth " supposedly offered by Afghanistan . <p> A PROTRACTED war will all but destroy Pakistan 's fragile economy . India 's own economy will be set back by many years . Besides , there is a likelihood that the war will escalate into a nuclear conflagration . Any use of nuclear weapons is totally , absolutely , unacceptable - irrespective of the circumstances . Even the threats of use must be defused . Nuclear wars can not be won . They are suicidal and genocidal for all concerned . They must never be fought . <p> We must pause and ask what New Delhi will achieve even if , short of a nuclear holocaust , it " wins " the war - leading to Musharraf 's fall ( or assassination ) , a general collapse of Pakistan 's state , and its disintegration along ethnic lines . A failed state collapsing on one 's borders is disastrous enough - as Pakistan has discovered in respect of Afghanistan . A nuclear power disintegrating would be catastrophic for India . <p> The legitimate purpose of any anti-terrorist operation can not be Pakistan 's disintegration , but effective action to rein in militant groups and put Pakistan on the road to moderation . By embarking on an open-ended confrontation , New Delhi will have pushed Pakistan 's extremists further down the terrorist path . This would be self-defeating . One cardinal lesson of September 11 is that all states , no matter how powerful , are vulnerable to terrorist attacks on their homeland . <p> We must acknowledge that our military options against Pakistan are limited , fraught with grave danger , or ineffectual . Instead of discouraging terrorism , they will , at minimum , encourage extremist , irresponsible conduct on the part of an embittered neighbour . Tragically , India 's rulers are contemplating such a course . Their motivation is profoundly irrational and vengeful . It is to teach Islamabad a U.S.-style or Israeli-style " lesson " . But Pakistan is not Gaza . And India 's ability militarily to bend Musharraf to its dictates is limited . <p> More important , Indian leaders know that Musharraf probably did not order the attack on Parliament House . He would have to be insane to do so when he is under watch or attack , both externally and internally . On the one hand , he is under close , probably intrusive , American scrutiny , and under pressure to deliver on his premise to act against terrorists . On the other hand , he is targeted by religious extremists . His Interior Minister 's brother was recently killed by them . They describe him as a " traitor " and a " sellout " . In all probability , December 13 was an amateurish operation by a group acting independently of Musharraf . Even assuming that some rogue elements of the Inter-Services Intelligence ( ISI ) were behind it , a military confrontation would only strengthen them . <p> Vajpayee capitulated to Right-wing pressure when he took harsh diplomatic measures against Pakistan on December 21 and 27 . He is now under even greater pressure to ratchet up hostility till war becomes likely , even inevitable . Besides cancelling Pakistan 's most-favoured-nation trade status , the government is considering abrogating the 1960 Indus Waters Treaty , an act that could lead to starving Pakistan of much-needed water . <p> Such measures will erode India 's diplomatic leverage , and inflict heavy punishment upon Pakistan , thus breeding more resentment - without encouraging moderate , reasonable conduct on its part . They will also weaken secular Pakistani opinion which stands for moderation . Abrogating something like the Indus Treaty would be tantamount to laying economic siege to a country , which is impermissible under international law . ( India once almost invited stiff Security Council sanctions for choking off the flow of the Ganga to Bangladesh . ) The Treaty pertains to the Indus Basin ( 26 million hectares ) , the largest irrigated area of any one river system in the world . It comprises the eastern rivers , the Sutlej , the Beas and the Ravi , and the western Indus , Jhelum and Chenab . The Treaty basically allots the waters of the eastern rivers to India and most of the flows of the western rivers to Pakistan . Much of Pakistan 's agriculture is critically dependent on these flows . Killing the Treaty will cause it irreversible damage . <p> The Indus Treaty is one of the few abiding stories of success among many failures and disasters in the history of Indo-Pakistan relations . It was brokered by the World Bank by means of tortuous negotiations . If India abrogates it , renegotiating it will be an extremely difficult task . <p> THERE is a sane , rational , cool-headed , low-risk alternative to such destructive measures . India should take the December 13 terrorist issue to the wider world , in particular to the Security Council on the basis of solid evidence . It should invoke Security Council Resolution 1373 , mandating all states to take effective action against terrorism - on pain of sanctions . This will generate the right kind of pressure on Musharraf to take verifiable measures , including the arrest of extremist leaders , a clamp-down on their facilities and assets , and destruction of their ISI links . <p> This course has the merit of winning - and retaining - the support of the international community on a transparent multilateral basis and of impelling Musharraf to fight a menace for which Pakistan has paid heavily . This will also help New Delhi build upon today 's favourable situation in Kashmir . The Taliban 's defeat has had a huge impact on the Valley . This creates a big opening to revitalise the political process and get the All-Parties Hurriyat Conference to participate in the next Assembly elections . War will close that opening . Good diplomacy will expand it and create conditions in which terrorism gets thoroughly discredited and foreign militants get isolated . <p> However , as a precondition , the government must abandon its military-adventurist approach . The Left has been pushing for this change . Now Centrist parties such as the Congress(I) , Samajwadi , Bahujan Samaj and the NDA 's " secular " components must join in . They must not lend uncritical , unconditional support to the government 's " anti-terrorist " fight . Such life-and-death issues are too precious to be left to any one group , especially the sectarian-communal BJP-RSS . <p> The time has also come for citizens to act . They must firmly say no to war . It has never been more imperative to give peace a chance . 
@@31516066 <h> The Man Who Would Beat Bibi <h> Can Gideon Saar upend Netanyahu for Likud leadership ? <p> Gideon Saar speaks at a recent campaign rally in Or Yehuda in advance of the Likud primary . Getty Images <p> Tel Aviv -- " We must speak the truth . And the sad truth is that the prime minister , who enjoys so much appreciation among all of us , is blocked " from forming a government . <p> That was the message of former Interior Minister Gideon Saar to the Likud faithful as he kicked off a 10-day primary election campaign aimed at convincing the party to dump Benjamin Netanyahu as its candidate for prime minister for Israel 's third general election in less than a year . <p> Saar 's primary candidacy marks the most serious internal party challenge to Netanyahu in 14 years . It reflects frustration with the prime minister after he failed twice to form a government in two previous rounds of voting . The primary contest , scheduled for Dec. 26 among 120,000 party members , also highlights Netanyahu 's weakened standing after Israeli Attorney General Avichai Mandelblit indicted him last month on multiple corruption charges , including bribery . <p> Speaking to hundreds of supporters at a catering hall in the party stronghold of Or Yehuda , 53-year-old Saar argued that , after Netanyahu failed twice before to put together a government , Israel 's right-wing would fare no differently this time around and would likely find itself in the opposition . <p> " He brought us to power four times . But the writing is on the wall , " Saar said in front of a backdrop with his campaign slogan , " Only Saar Can . " " There wo n't be a fifth time . There is a huge majority for Netanyahu 's path , but the majority is eroding . ... We see it poll after poll , and we hear it on the street . " <p> Amid chants of " Hoo-hah , who is that ? The next prime minister , " Saar dubbed himself the candidate of change and a new hope for the party -- and the best way to ensure the defeat of the centrist Blue and White party in the upcoming election . <p> " If we do n't change , we will risk ending up with a leftist government which will endanger everything that is dear to us , " Saar said . <p> Amid Netanyahu 's legal battles and struggles to form a coalition , Saar has long been seen as the likely successor . <p> Observers describe Saar as an astute politician who staked out a hardline position on national security : he opposed Israel 's pullout from the Gaza Strip in 2005 . Saar criticized Netanyahu for openly endorsing a Palestinian state when he returned to power in 2009 . <p> Though Saar lives in central Tel Aviv and comes from a secular background , he has cultivated ties with leading religious figures and started observing the Sabbath . At the same time , he has good relations with left-wing politicians despite his reputation as a nationalist hardliner . <p> Most critically , he has studiously avoided criticizing Netanyahu over the corruption indictment , recognizing that the overwhelming majority of Likud voters sympathize with the prime minister on those issues . <p> Even though Netanyahu remains the heavy favorite to win the race , Saar began the week with some momentum : a handful of Knesset members and Likud mayors endorsed his candidacy . And Likud Central Committee Chairman Haim Katz attended the Saar campaign kickoff event . <p> A poll by Israel 's public television news , Kan , suggests a mixed bag of outcomes regarding which candidate would fare better in the general elections . Likud might lose fewer seats to Blue and White under Netanyahu , but a right wing bloc would gain more seats than it would under Netanyahu -- but still fall short of a 61-seat majority . <p> Even if Saar fails against Netanyahu , the primary would position him at the head of a handful of Likud would-be successors to Netanyahu , especially if he can get more than a third of the party 's votes . <p> " He 's a very shrewd politician . Unlike many others , he 's very consistent , " said Aviv Bushinsky , a former spokesman for Netanyahu . <p> " You wo n't find anything that he 's done in the past that contradicts his positions in the present . Some say he 's a hardline right winger , which is true . But I do n't see him as someone in politics who is there to execute his ideology exclusively . His ideology is not a mission from God . " <p> No current Likud ministers have thrown their support behind Saar so far . For most of Likud 's four-plus decades , the party has avoided the internecine leadership battles that consumed the rival Labor Party . Other than Netanyahu , the party has only had three other leaders : Menachem Begin , Yitzhak Shamir and Ariel Sharon . <p> In an interview with Israeli public radio , Absorption Minister Yoav Galant of Likud focused on Saar 's relatively thin resume on national security . <p> " There are 150,000 missiles aimed at us from Iran , Lebanon , Syria and Gaza , " said Galant . " I ask myself , who will deal with this challenge better ? Benjamin Netanyahu , with his record , and what he 's done his whole life , or Gideon Saar ? That 's my consideration . " <h> ' A Real Mutiny ' <p> Saar 's first prominent political role was serving as cabinet secretary during Netanyahu 's first term as prime minister . He served in the same role under Ariel Sharon . When Netanyahu returned to power in 2009 , he appointed Saar education minister . In party elections for the Likud candidate slate ( below the party chairman ) , he has consistently finished in the top tier -- and even came in first . <p> However , in a sign of the tension between him and Netanyahu , Saar retired from politics in 2014 when he was education minister . After Saar returned to active political life in 2017 , Netanyahu accused the former interior minister of conspiring to overthrow him . <p> Saar is up against a charisma gap and will be hard-pressed to compete with Netanyahu 's international gravitas , an attribute that stirs pride among many rank-and-file Likudniks , said Mitchell Barak , an Israeli-American public opinion expert and a former adviser to Netanyahu . <p> " Saar is mounting an excellent campaign , " he said . " He 's got four or five members of Knesset endorsing him . That 's a real mutiny . And it 's happening right before an election . It 's unprecedented and a real fight . " <p> Within the party and Israel , few can remember the last time that there was a battle for the Likud leadership . ( It was in 2005 , after Ariel Sharon bolted the party and formed Kadima with defectors . ) <p> Saar 's argument that he has a better chance of forming the next government than Netanyahu seems to be resonating . <p> " Netanyahu had two chances to lead us to victory and that did n't happen , " said Danny Gottlieb , a Likud member who plans to back Saar . " I do n't see a way out except to pick another person , who is also qualified and will appeal to a wider base of voters . And arouses a lot less antagonism . " <p> Stuart Schnee , a public relations consultant who backs Netanyahu , said he thinks the competition is healthy for Likud . <p> " The people who support Saar are not anti-Netanyahu ; they are being realistic . They think it 's a time for renewal . There are a lot of people in Likud whose criticism of him is , ' Gee where is our young leadership ? You 're not going to be there forever , ' " said Schnee . <p> " I can hear the Saar argument , but I always come back to the Iran thing : Bibi has consistently been correct . That kind of stuff makes me nervous . I 'm not convinced that changing horses right now is helpful . " <p> By signing up , you agree to our terms You hereby accept the Jewish Week Terms of Use and Privacy Policy , and you agree to receive the latest news &amp; offers from the Jewish Week and its partners or ad sponsors . 
@@31516272 <h> The Trump peace plan may be less about reaching a final settlement now , and more about setting down new parameters for a changed reality . <p> In a twist to the " after-the-hagim holidays " line ubiquitous here around Passover and Rosh Hashanah , Jared Kushner -- US President Donald Trump 's son-in-law and senior adviser -- said Tuesday that the long-awaited Trump peace blueprint will be rolled out " after Ramadan . " <p> " We were getting ready to roll out the plan at the end of last year , and then they called for Israeli elections , " Kushner said at the 2019 TIME 100 Summit trumpeting the magazine 's selection last week of the 100 most influential people in the world . " Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu had a great victory , and he 's in the middle of forming his coalition . Once that 's done , we 'll probably be in the middle of Ramadan . So we 'll wait until after Ramadan and then we 'll put our plan out . " <p> Or not . <p> This is not the first time the " after Ramadan " timetable has been used by this administration in reference to when it will present its " deal of the century . " <p> In the beginning of 2018 , reports emerged that the plan would be released in the spring ; in the spring the reports were that it would be released after Ramadan in June ; after Ramadan the speculation was that it would be released in early fall . By then , however , people speculated -- correctly , as it turned out -- that it would not be released before the US midterm elections on November 6 , so as not to do anything to alienate Trump 's strongly pro-Israel Evangelical base . <p> In September , Trump said that he would be releasing the plan in two to four months . But then the new Israeli elections were called in December , and it became clear that the plan would not be issued during the campaign , so as not to complicate matters for Netanyahu . <p> If Netanyahu now needs all 42 days at his disposal to form a government , that period will end on May 29 . Ramadan is expected to begin this year on May 7 , and end on June 4 . Which means that on June 5 the moon and stars will be aligned just right for the rollout of the plan . <p> Realistically , there will then be about a three-month window for the plan to be presented , until America 's Labor Day , September 2 , when the US presidential election campaign will shift into high gear before the primaries in the first six months of 2020 . And during that campaign , Trump will again be averse to doing anything that might alienate his strongly pro-Israel Evangelical base . <p> Kushner sounded resolute Tuesday about presenting the plan , but so did Trump himself last September , only to be overtaken by events . New reasons may be found after Ramadan to postpone its presentation as well . <p> For instance , perhaps Netanyahu , saddled with a hard-right government that he knows will not support some of the concessions that Israel will inevitably be asked to make under the plan , may ask Trump not to unveil it , so as not to endanger his government . <p> Or perhaps Trump will listen to some voices being raised in Washington entreating him not to present a plan that has no chance of succeeding -- primarily because the Palestinians have already rejected it , sight unseen -- since to do so would only make a bad situation worse . <p> One of the more prominent voices in this school of thought is that of Robert Satloff , executive director of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy . Two weeks ago , he wrote a piece on the Foreign Policy magazine 's website calling on Trump not to present his plan , saying it faced sure rejection and as a result would set back US interests in three critical areas : " It might lead to annexation of the West Bank ; it could give the Saudi government leverage over the United States that it does n't currently have ; and it would distract from Trump 's signature achievement of putting real pressure on Iran 's government . " <p> According to Satloff 's logic , the current Israeli-Palestinian status quo is far from perfect , but it has led to a " reasonably well-functioning governing entity " in the West Bank , keeping it from becoming a " platform for rocket and terrorist attacks against Israel . " <p> This status quo would come tumbling down , he warned , if Abbas rejects the plan -- as he has said he would . " In turn , Israeli rightists will seize on Abbas 's ' no ' to argue that Israel has no negotiating partner , gutting a key rationale for keeping the status quo alive . " <p> In addition , he argued , the plan will need major Saudi backing to succeed , giving the Saudis dangerous leverage over US policy , and it would also " distract from the president 's signature achievement in the Middle East : the unexpectedly effective impact of the so-called maximum pressure campaign on Iran . " <p> ON TUESDAY , however , Kushner did not sound like someone who was going to jettison a plan he has been working on for two years . While revealing nothing of the blueprint 's details -- including whether it would advocate a two-state solution -- he did say that the Trump peace team is trying a different approach . <p> " We 've tried to do it a little bit differently , " Kushner said . " Normally , they Mideast mediators start with a process and then hope that the process leads to a resolution for something to happen . What we 've done is the opposite . We 've done very extensive research and a lot of talking to a lot of people . We 're not trying to impose our will . I think the document that you will see , which is a very detailed proposal , is something we created by engaging a lot of people in the region , and people who have worked on this in the past . <p> " I hope it is a very comprehensive vision for what can be , if people are willing to make some hard decisions . So what we 've done is we started with a proposed solution , and then we will work on a process to try to get there . " <p> In other words , instead of getting a negotiating process rolling that the organizers hope will then lead the sides to come to some kind of an agreement , the Trump administration is working backward : present a comprehensive solution first , and then figure out how to get there . <p> There are various reasons , diplomatic officials have explained , for this approach , one of which is the realization that the Trump administration -- which Netanyahu has said is the most supportive administration Israel has ever worked with -- will not be there forever , and that it could indeed be turned out of office in November 2020 . <p> That being the case , the administration has some 20 months in which it can put down new markers on Middle East issues and set new parameters . <p> There is a sense that the political pendulum in the US swings drastically from one extreme to the next -- from George W. Bush to Barack Obama , and then from Obama to Trump -- and that it could next swing to Elizabeth Warren , Bernie Sanders or Beto O'Rourke . <p> As such , one of the aims of the plan -- which even the most optimistic in the Trump peace team must realize has a slim chance of success , considering the numerous forces already lining up against it , including the PA , some European countries and the EU foreign policy bureaucracy in Brussels -- is perhaps less about reaching a final settlement now , and more about setting down a new set of facts : new parameters . <p> This administration , which in addition to Trump includes strong pro-Israel voices such as those of Vice President Mike Pence , US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and National Security Adviser John Bolton , does not want to leave Washington with the last American statement on the Middle East being Obama 's decision in the waning days of his term in 2016 not to veto an anti-settlement resolution in the UN Security Council , thereby placing the bulk of the onus for the stalemated peace process on Israel . <p> The administration also does not want the final word on the matter to be the Clinton Parameters of 2000 -- guidelines for a permanent-status agreement based on a Palestinian state on 94%-96% of the territories and with Jerusalem as the capital of two states . <p> Much has changed since then -- the Second Intifada and the Gaza withdrawal have changed the Israeli-Palestinian conflict , and the " Arab Spring " has fundamentally changed the Middle East -- and it is expected that the Trump plan will reflect those changes , something that could set the narrative for the next decade , just as the Clinton Parameters have dominated the conversation on peacemaking since 2000 . <p> The plan , whose details have remained a closely guarded secret , is expected to be based around a set of principles : significantly improving Palestinian lives ; safeguarding Israeli security ; Jerusalem as Israel 's capital , though the borders there may be negotiable ; not uprooting anyone from anywhere , including Jews in the settlements ; a new definition of refugees ; and some kind of Palestinian state , though likely to be along the lines of Netanyahu 's idea of a state-minus . <p> Animating the discussion on Israel inside the administration since Trump took power in 2017 is the sense that Israel is America 's most important ally in the Middle East , and that -- as such -- Washington does not want to weaken it in any way . A call to uproot settlements , which would lead to significant domestic strife , is seen by some in the administration as a move that could significantly weaken Israel , and as such something that should be avoided . <p> Likewise , the US does not want to weaken Jordan -- another key Mideast ally -- and as such does not want to set up a possible failed state in the West Bank that could threaten the Hashemite Kingdom . With enough problems already on its northern border with Syria and on its eastern border with Iraq , the last thing Jordan needs is a failed state on its western frontier . <p> The administration , which has devoted a lot of time and man hours to the plan , obviously hopes that it will be accepted -- when it is eventually presented . <p> Kushner , during his comments on Tuesday , said that when the sides look at the proposal , " I am hopeful that what they 'll do is to say , ' Look , there are some compromises here , but at the end of the day this is really a framework that can allow us to make our lives all materially better . ' And we 'll see if the leadership on both sides has the courage to take the lead to try to go forward . " <p> And , if not , at least a new marker will have been set . <p> Even some sharp critics of Trump 's foreign policy , such as Richard Haas , a former US diplomat who is now the president of the Council on Foreign Relations , acknowledge that the time has come to look at the Middle East differently . <p> In a piece this week in Project Syndicate where he said that there is little chance that the Trump plan would succeed , he nevertheless concluded that : " It is time for a paradigm shift in how we think about the Middle East , not because a better diplomatic model has presented itself ( it has not ) , but because the current paradigm is increasingly at odds with reality . " <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31519863 <p> Our Most Popular Global Health Stories Of 2019 : From Anger Management To Plague : Goats and SodaSecrets of Inuit parenting , a Mongolian heavy metal band and a controversial medical center in Uganda were among the topics that drew the most readers . <p> Photo highlights from our top stories : Inuit parenting teaches kids how to control anger ; a fisherman holds up a fish caught in Lake Malawi , where transactional sex is part of the fish trade ; the Dandora Landfill in Nairobi , Kenya . <p> When correspondent Michaeleen Doucleff flew to Iqaluit in Nunavut , Canada , earlier this year to find out more about the parenting style there , all the moms mentioned one golden rule : Do n't shout or yell at small children . That 's a key to a society in which people are able to maintain composure even when faced with an annoying or frustrating situation . <p> The growths on Mahmoud Taluli 's hands were the result of a severe case of a rare condition called epidermodysplasia verruciformis -- sometimes referred to as " tree man " syndrome because the tumors can resemble wood or bark . At right : Taluli after his operation . Hadassah Medical Center hide caption <p> toggle caption <p> Hadassah Medical Center <p> Mahmoud Taluli of Gaza has undergone at least five surgeries at Hadassah Medical Center since 2017 for his epidermodysplasia verruciformis , a rare skin disease that causes painful white and gray growths resembling tree bark . Nicknamed " tree man " syndrome , Taluli 's condition has only been documented a handful of times around the world -- and there is no known cure . But as a result of the surgeries , Taluli has regained use of his hands . <p> In sub-Saharan African communities where fishing is an important part of the local economy , there is a pervasive practice between the men who catch the fish and the women who sell it in markets : transactional sex . <p> In November , three people in China were diagnosed with pneumonic plague -- the most dangerous type of the disease , also known as the Black Death , which can spread from person to person . <p> The first two cases were a couple from Inner Mongolia , an autonomous region in northwest China . The other patient was a man also from Inner Mongolia , though reported to be unrelated to the couple . The Chinese government confirmed the cases , but media censorship drew criticism online . <p> More than 800 tons of trash piling up in a landfill in Nairobi , Kenya . Smoke pumping out of a 3,400-acre Exxon Petrochemical plant in Baytown , Texas . Oil contaminating the waterways of the Niger Delta in Nigeria . <p> These are some of the scenes documented in the Anthropocene Project , a multidisciplinary exhibit of film , photography , virtual reality and augmented reality . The name refers to the Anthropocene era -- the age of the humans ( " anthropos " is Greek for human ) . <p> The Hu , a Mongolian metal band , combines traditional instruments like the horsehead fiddle and Jew 's harp with heavy drums and bass . With their mix of ancient culture and modern rock , the four conservatory-trained musicians have landed over 22 million views on YouTube. 
@@31523168 <h> At a recent training in Boston , a dozen counselors from eight camps gathered to talk about how to present both sides of the conflict , rather than solely a pro-Israel line . <p> Participants in a camp counselor training by IfNotNow in Boston , May 27 , 2018 . ( Photo courtesy of IfNotNow ) <p> When Aviva Schwartz started praying publicly for Palestinians at her Jewish summer camp , she knew it would be controversial . <p> Schwartz had grown up ensconced in the Conservative movement , had attended three of its Ramah camps and had moved up the ranks as a staff member at Ramah Wisconsin . When Israel 's war in Gaza broke out in the summer of 2014 , she was the unit head for incoming seventh-graders -- a position reserved for staff veterans . <p> She was also a college student who , after a lifetime of pro-Israel education , was becoming more critical of Israel 's control of the West Bank and its treatment of Palestinians . So when fellow staff members began saying Kaddish , the mourners ' prayer , for Israelis killed in the conflict , she began praying for Palestinian victims as well . <p> Her superiors let her do it -- but they did not back her up when she felt backlash from her unit counselors . <p> " I felt pretty strongly that we needed to acknowledge and remember the lives of Palestinians and Israelis , " Schwartz said . " Particularly , Israeli staff were incredibly upset and uncomfortable . I was n't told not to do that , and I do n't feel like I was really given support in the form of the camp backing me , to support me in my conversations with upset counselors . " <p> Now , with tensions in Gaza again running high , Schwartz wants to help other Jewish camp counselors do what she did : talk about Palestinian narratives and challenge Israeli actions while at camp . She was among the organizers of a daylong training for counselors on how to discuss the issue with campers and staff , both informally and in camp programs . The goal is to encourage counselors to present divergent sides of the conflict rather than solely a pro-Israel line . <p> The May 27 session in Boston attracted about a dozen counselors from eight Reform , Conservative and liberal Zionist camps . It was run by IfNotNow , a group of Jews that refers to " the occupation " as a system of violence and does not oppose the boycott , divestment and sanctions ( BDS ) movement against Israel . <p> " Having to relearn and re-evaluate your whole childhood and mentorship and teaching because of the feeling of being lied to is a potentially life-shattering moment , " said Schwartz , now an employee of the campus group Hillel at the University of Washington . " I do n't want campers to have to think , oh , did my counselors know the occupation is happening and they 're just lying about it ? " <p> It 's a change of pace for IfNotNow , which focuses much of its energy on public and often disruptive protests of large American Jewish organizations . But in March , members of IfNotNow met with Mitchell Cohen , the national director of Ramah camps , to outline their concerns with what they feel is an overly one-sided Israel curriculum at the camps . <p> Cohen proudly acknowledged that Israel is portrayed in a positive light at the camps . Ramah , like other Jewish camps , infuses Israeli culture into much of its programming . Campers study Hebrew daily , perform Israeli dances , sing Israeli songs , eat Israeli food and learn about the country 's history . Delegations of Israeli counselors and staff work at all of the camps , whose founding was inspired partly by the ethos of early 20th-century labor Zionism . <p> Several Ramah staffers attended the training . But Cohen said he was n't worried about what they discussed and is open to nuanced Israel education -- though any educational program counselors put on this summer will , like all others , have to be vetted by their camps ' senior staff . <p> " Some people use the word occupation in quite harsh ways , " he said . " Some people use it in more mild ways . Certainly the fact that there is a difficult situation between the Israeli and Palestinian peoples , a conflict , people suffering on all sides -- this is something we do n't have a problem talking about at camp . " <p> Cohen said the camps ' top priority is fostering a sense of affection in campers toward Israel as a Jewish homeland . He noted that a range of perspectives exist within Israel regarding the conflict , but there are red lines . <p> " To the extent that there are liberal opinions that are critical of Israel that are not Zionist , anti-Zionist , we would never allow that at camp , " he said . " First we teach a love for Israel . Then we teach the nuances and the conflict . " <p> A participant at the IfNotNow session makes a point . ( Photo courtesy of IfNotNow ) <p> Noam Weissman , who is consulting with a Jewish camp on its Israel curriculum , also says an Israel curriculum should combine love and nuance . Weissman , senior vice president for education for Jerusalem U , a video-focused Israel education organization , says kids need to learn about the diversity and complexity of Israel , but from a place of love . <p> Loving Israel , he said , " builds in a real confidence of Jewish peoplehood , a love for oneself and a confidence for oneself . " <p> " We want to be able to ask tough questions , but we want to do it in a contextualized way that says we love Israel , we care about Israel , " Weissman said . " The occupation needs to be discussed and the different perspectives on the occupation need to be discussed , but the foregone conclusion that the occupation is ' bad ' is indoctrination just like anything else that they 're claiming is indoctrination . " <p> Weissman was referring to claims by some Jewish critics that the " pro-Israel " approach is also indoctrination , and that Israel advocacy groups only discuss the Palestinian side in order to debunk it . <p> At the IfNotNow training , participants began by talking about their camps and why they feel attached to them . Following seminars on the history of American Jewish camps and IfNotNow 's activism , participants discussed how to talk about difficult issues with children . After brainstorming ideas of how they would discuss the conflict with their campers , the participants saw a presentation by counselors from Habonim Dror , the liberal Zionist youth movement , about their curriculum on Israel and the Palestinians . <p> Adina Alpert , a lifelong camper at Ramah in Ojai , Calif. , who co-organized the training , said the event was coming from a positive place : The counselors do not want to hurt their camps , even if they were unhappy with some of the Israel education they received there . Alpert fondly recalled a wealth of Israeli cultural programs at camp . But she also felt that lessons on Israeli history , the Israeli War of Independence and subsequent events did not present the Palestinian point of view . <p> " These are not communities we want to be leaving or alienating or becoming isolated from , " she said . " We want to do this work within our communities because we love our communal moments of joy and growth while thinking back and reflecting on the moments where our Israel education was n't what we wanted it to be . " <p> But ahead of the conference , counselors were not exactly sure what their ideal Israeli-Palestinian program would look like . Some suggested having campers read Palestinian stories or poems , or see Palestinian artwork . Others suggested studying Palestinian texts or having a Shabbat program framed around the Palestinian experience . Another idea was to have campers read a number of opinions and perspectives regarding a recent event in the region , like the recent clashes on the Gaza border . <p> Alpert said " if campers hear the term ' Palestinian ' in a non-derogatory way , that would be a success . " <p> Maya Seckler , an incoming gardening counselor at the Reform Eisner Camp in Massachusetts , wants to expose her campers to Palestinian life by placing signs next to each vegetable with its name in Hebrew , English and Arabic . <p> " I want to expose kids to Arabic and Palestinian culture , " she said . " That 's part of Israeli culture , that all three languages are going to be on every sign , and it 's not ignoring a whole group of people in Israeli history and Israeli culture . Both are valid and both are important . " <p> An incoming unit head at Ramah Outdoor Adventure in Colorado , Sylvie Rosen , said she has not formulated programs yet for her campers because she wants to talk first to her counselor staff . <p> But if violence flares up in Israel this summer , she does not want to shy away from it . <p> " Going into ninth grade , I think they 're old enough to hear stories from families living in the West Bank , living in Gaza , " she said . " If the violence in Gaza continues throughout the summer , that 's something I want to address . " PJC <p> By signing up , you agree to our terms You hereby accept The Times of Israel Terms of Use and Privacy Policy , and you agree to receive the latest news &amp; offers from The Times of Israel and its partners or ad sponsors . 
@@31527072 <h> Top photos of 2019 : The year in pictures <h> Notre Dame fire <p> Editors at The Associated Press sorted through countless photographs taken around the world to come up with their top photos of 2019 . Together these images tell the story of the year -- capturing moments of hope and heartbreak , triumph and tragedy . <p> Seen here : Flames and smoke rise from Notre Dame cathedral in Paris as firefighters tackle the blaze on April 15 , 2019 . <p> Credit : Michel Euler / AP <h> Kentucky Derby <p> In this photo made with a tilt shift lens , Luis Saez rides Maximum Security across the finish line first during the 145th running of the Kentucky Derby horse race at Churchill Downs on May 4 , 2019 . Country House was declared the winner after Maximum Security was disqualified following a review by race stewards . <p> Credit : Matt Slocum / AP <h> Fires in the Amazon <p> A Brazilian soldier puts out fires at the Nova Fronteira region in Novo Progresso , Brazil , on Sept. 3 , 2019 . <p> Credit : Leo Correa / AP <h> Fleeing ISIS in Syria <p> A woman and her baby , who were evacuated from the last territory held by Islamic State militants , walk after being screened by U.S.-backed Syrian Democratic Forces in the desert outside Baghouz , Syria , on Feb. 25 , 2019 . <p> Credit : Felipe Dana / AP <h> Tropical Storm Barry <p> Tyler Holland guides his bike through the water as winds from Tropical Storm Barry push water from Lake Pontchartrain over the seawall in Mandeville , Louisiana , on July 13 , 2019 . <p> Credit : David J. Phillip / AP <h> State of the Union <p> President Donald Trump turns to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi during his State of the Union address to a joint session of Congress on Capitol Hill in Washington , as Vice President Mike Pence watches , on Feb. 5 , 2019 . <p> Credit : Andrew Harnik / AP <h> California wildfires <p> A firefighter sprays water while embers threaten a residence as the Hillside fire burns through San Bernardino , California , on Oct. 31 , 2019 . <p> Credit : Noah Berger / AP <h> Protests in Spain <p> A man holding a Catalan independence flag is surrounded by smoke released by demonstrators during the Catalan National Day in Barcelona , Spain , on Sept. 11 , 2019 . <p> Credit : Emilio Morenatti / AP <h> Cannes Film Festival <p> Singer Jessica Jung arrives at the premiere of the film " The Dead Do n't Die " at the 72nd Cannes Film Festival in Cannes , France , on May 14 , 2019 . <p> Credit : Petros Giannakouris / AP <h> Hong Kong protests <h> Women 's World Cup <p> U.S. teammates Megan Rapinoe , right , and Alex Morgan celebrate after Rapinoe scored the opening goal from the penalty spot during the Women 's World Cup final soccer match between the U.S. and The Netherlands , in Lyon , France , on July 7 , 2019 . Team USA won the tournament . <p> Credit : Francisco Seco / AP <h> Morocco horse show <p> A troupe charges and fires their rifles during Tabourida , a traditional horse riding show also known as Fantasia , in the coastal town of El Jadida , Morocco , on July 25 , 2019 . <p> Credit : Mosa'ab Elshamy / AP <h> Hungry gator <p> An alligator ignores the small fish swimming nearby as it awaits its next opportunity for a meal in the Big Cypress National Preserve in Florida on Oct. 30 , 2019 . A fishing line dangles from the reptile 's mouth . <p> Credit : Robert F. Bukaty / AP <h> Fire line <p> Firefighters battle the Marsh Fire near the town of Brentwood , California , in Contra Costa County , on Aug. 3 , 2019 . <p> Credit : Noah Berger / AP <h> Palace banquet <p> Queen Elizabeth II and President Donald Trump arrive with others through the East Gallery at Buckingham Palace in London ahead of the State Banquet on June 3 , 2019 . <p> Credit : Victoria Jones/Pool Photo via AP <h> Swimming championships <p> Swimmers reach for drink bottles while competing in the men 's 10km open water swim at the World Swimming Championships in Yeosu , South Korea , on July 16 , 2019 . <p> Credit : Mark Schiefelbein / AP <h> Tiger Woods <p> Tiger Woods reacts after winning the Masters golf tournament in Augusta , Georgia , on April 14 , 2019 . <p> Credit : David J. Phillip / AP <h> Simone Biles <p> Simone Biles of the United States performs on the uneven bars during a warmup for the women 's all-around final at the Gymnastics World Championships in Stuttgart , Germany , on Oct. 10 , 2019 . She won 5 gold medals and her fifth overall world championship . <p> Credit : Matthias Schrader / AP <h> Puerto Rico protests <p> A demonstrator draped in a Puerto Rican flag joins thousands of others in a march to the governor 's residence in San Juan , Puerto Rico , on July 17 , 2019 . The protesters chanted demands for Gov . Ricardo Rossello to resign after the leak of online chats that showed him making misogynistic slurs and mocking his constituents . <p> Credit : Dennis M. Rivera Pichardo / AP <h> A ballerina <p> Ballet dancer Erin King of Ballet Central prepares to pose for photos at the Central School of Ballet in London on Feb. 20 , 2019 . <p> Credit : Frank Augstein / AP <h> Flooding in India <p> People navigate their way through a street flooded by torrential rains in Mumbai , India , on Sept. 4 , 2019 . <h> Diver and coral <h> Iron Dome <p> The Israeli Iron Dome air defense system takes out rockets fired from Gaza near Sderot , Israel , on May 4 , 2019 . <p> Credit : Ariel Schalit / AP <h> Orangutan <p> Sandra , a 33-year-old orangutan , stands in her enclosure at the former city zoo now known as Eco Parque , in Buenos Aires , Argentina , on Sept. 16 , 2019 . Sandra 's solitary life took a turn when she left Buenos Aires for her new home at the Center for Great Apes in central Florida , United States . There , she joined other orangutans and chimpanzees rescued or retired from circuses , stage shows and the exotic pet trade . <p> Credit : Natacha Pisarenko / AP <h> Rwanda memorial <p> Family photos of some of those who died hang on display in an exhibition at the Kigali Genocide Memorial centre in the Rwandan capital , Kigali , on April 5 , 2019 . Rwanda commemorated the 25th anniversary of the country 's descent into an orgy of violence in which some 800,000 Tutsis and moderate Hutus were massacred by the majority Hutu population over a 100-day period in what was the worst genocide in recent history . <p> Credit : Ben Curtis / AP <h> Emergency rescue <p> Firefighters work to resuscitate the driver of a commuter train who was injured in a collision with another train in Sao Cristovao station in Rio de Janeiro , Brazil , on Feb. 27 , 2019 . <p> Credit : Leo Correa / AP <h> Soccer triumph <p> Liverpool 's players celebrate with the trophy after winning the Champions League final soccer match between Tottenham Hotspur and Liverpool in Madrid on June 2 , 2019 . <p> Credit : Felipe Dana / AP <h> Fleeing ISIS in Syria <p> Women and children ride in the back of a truck as part of a convoy evacuating hundreds out of the last territory held by Islamic State militants in Baghouz , Syria , on Feb. 20 , 2019 . <p> Credit : Felipe Dana / AP <h> Tornado 's devastation <p> Carol Dean , right , cries and embraces Megan Anderson and her 18-month-old daughter , Madilyn , as Dean sifts through the debris of the home she shared with her husband , David Wayne Dean , who died when a tornado destroyed the house in Beauregard , Alabama , on March 4 , 2019 . <p> Credit : David Goldman / AP <h> Power lunch <p> Democratic presidential candidate Senator Kamala Harris meets with civil rights leader Rev. Al Sharpton , president of the National Action Network , during lunch at Sylvia 's Restaurant in the Harlem neighborhood of New York on Feb. 21 , 2019 . Harris dropped out of the race nine months later . <p> Credit : Bebeto Matthews / AP <h> Lady Gaga <p> Lady Gaga , winner of the Academy Award for best original song for " Shallow " from " A Star Is Born , " gets emotional in the press room during the Oscars at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles on Feb. 24 , 2019 . <p> Credit : Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP <h> Cricket fans <p> Spectators watch from the scoreboard on day four of the third cricket test match between England and West Indies at the Daren Sammy Cricket Ground in Gros Islet , St. Lucia , on Feb. 12 , 2019 . <p> Credit : Ricardo Mazalan / AP <h> Dakar Rally <p> Competitors ride their motorcycles across the dunes during stage nine of the Dakar Rally in Pisco , Peru , on Jan. 16 , 2019 . <p> Credit : Ricardo Mazalan / AP <h> Flag lover <p> President Donald Trump hugs the American flag as he arrives to speak at the Conservative Political Action Conference , CPAC 2019 , in Oxon Hill , Maryland , on March 2 , 2019 . <p> Credit : Carolyn Kaster / AP <h> Along the border <p> Floodlights from the U.S. , left , illuminate multiple border walls , center , as traffic flows along a street in Tijuana , Mexico , on Jan. 7 , 2019 . <p> Credit : Gregory Bull / AP <h> Hurricane Dorian <p> Volunteers wade through a flooded road against wind and rain brought on by Hurricane Dorian to rescue families near the Causarina bridge in Freeport , Grand Bahama , in the Bahamas , on Sept. 3 , 2019 . <p> Credit : Ramon Espinosa / AP <h> Window display <p> Dolls decorate a window in the old part of the Transylvanian town of Sibiu , Romania , on May 10 , 2019 . <p> Credit : Vadim Ghirda / AP <h> Nome , Alaska <p> The afternoon sun hangs low as it shines through the snow at the airport in Nome , Alaska , on Feb. 13 , 2019 . <p> Credit : Wong Maye-E / AP <h> Venezuela clashes <p> A demonstrator is knocked over by a strand of barbed wire during clashes with the Bolivarian National Guard in Urena , Venezuela , near the border with Colombia , on Feb. 23 , 2019 . <p> Credit : Fernando Llano / AP <h> Cliff diving <p> A cliff diver jumps from the landmark Raouche sea rock during qualifying for the Red Bull Cliff Diving World Series competition in Beirut , Lebanon , on July 13 , 2019 . <p> Credit : Hussein Malla / AP <h> Deadly attack <p> People flee as security forces aim their weapons during a deadly attack by extremists at a luxury hotel complex in Nairobi , Kenya , on Jan. 15 , 2019 . Explosions and heavy gunfire reverberated through the complex during the attack that killed more than 20 people . <p> Credit : Khalil Senosi / AP <h> Border patrol <p> A U.S. Border Protection officer stands in heavy rain near the border fence between San Diego , California , and Tijuana , Mexico , on Jan. 1 , 2019 . <p> Credit : Daniel Ochoa de Olza / AP <h> Border tragedy <p> In one of the most widely shared photos of the year , the bodies of Salvadoran migrant Oscar Alberto Marti ? nez Ramirez and his nearly 2-year-old daughter Valeria lie on the bank of the Rio Grande in Matamoros , Mexico , on June 24 , 2019 , after they drowned trying to cross the river to Brownsville , Texas . <p> Martinez 's wife , Tania , told Mexican authorities she watched her husband and child disappear in the strong current . In an interview with CBS News ' " 60 Minutes , " she said they were seeking a better life . " Our dream was to move our family forward . Every human being has dreams . " <p> Credit : Julia Le Duc / AP <h> Hong Kong protests <p> A bleeding man is taken away by policemen after he was attacked by protesters outside Kwai Chung police station in Hong Kong on July 31 , 2019 . <p> Credit : Vincent Yu / AP <h> Birthday boy <p> Byron Xol , an immigrant from Guatemala , lies on the floor in a makeshift disco ballroom in Buda , Texas , during his birthday party on June 23 , 2019 . Byron was separated from his father , David Xol-Cholom , in May 2018 , during the Trump administration 's wide-scale separation of immigrant families . <h> NASCAR crash <h> Holocaust remembrance <p> A man walks through the gate of the Sachsenhausen Nazi death camp with the phrase " Arbeit macht frei " ( work sets you free ) on the gate in Oranienburg , Germany , on International Holocaust Remembrance Day , Jan. 27 , 2019 . <p> Credit : Markus Schreiber / AP <h> Venezuela protests <p> A youth is carried by medics to a safe zone after he was injured in clashes with Venezuelan National Guardsmen blocking the entry of U.S.-supplied humanitarian aid on the Simon Bolivar International Bridge in La Parada , Colombia , near the border with Venezuela , on Feb. 25 , 2019 . <p> Credit : Fernando Vergara / AP <h> Art amid the wreckage <p> A mural is illuminated at dusk on Feb. 8 , 2019 , on the chimney of a home in Paradise , California , that was destroyed by the Camp Fire . Artist Shane Grammer says he painted murals throughout the fire-ravaged town to convey hope in the midst of destruction . 
@@31527370 <h> Otzma Yehudit- or Jewish Power in English -- is an offshoot of a political movement that has been designated a terrorist organization abroad and banned from Knesset lists since the 1980s . <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu cut a deal on Wednesday that paves the way for Otzma Yehudit , an extremist and racist group with roots in Kahanist political philosophy , to sit in the next Knesset when it opens . <p> Otzma Yehudit- or Jewish Power in English -- is an offshoot of a political movement that has been designated a terrorist organization abroad and banned from Knesset lists since the 1980s . <p> That movement , founded by the late Rabbi Meir Kahane , considers Arabs and other non-Jews in Israel to be enemies of the state and supports replacing Israel 's democratic government with a theocratic structure . <p> Several different groups have spawned from Kahane 's racist ideology . Some have outwardly promoted violence , while others have stopped short of publicly proclaiming policies that would get them officially banned from serving in parliament . <p> Otzma falls in the latter category . It has taken a similar strategic approach to the stigma of Kahanist history that neo-fascist groups have navigated in the US and Europe , rebranding as an " alt-right " political movement tonally distinct and subtler than their predecessors . <p> Kahane served in the Knesset for only one term , but his influence has carried long after his tenure and his death by assassination in 1990 . He advocated annexation of Gaza and the West Bank , restoring Jewish " sovereignty " over the Temple Mount , limiting the rights of non-Jews to a subclass -- or even forcibly removing them from the country -- and violence against his political enemies . <p> Today , Otzma Yehudit supports several of these policies , including full Israeli control from the Jordan River to the Mediterranean Sea and cancellation of the Oslo Accords . Party leaders have shied away from calls to violence and mass deportations , but support the forced expulsion of " Arab extremists , " avoiding specifics . <p> Kahane was personally accused of plotting various terrorist attacks throughout the 1970s , and his followers continue to face accusations of supporting domestic terrorism and incitement to racism . A massacre of Palestinian Muslims praying in Hebron in 1994 , perpetrated by followers of Kahane , led Israel , the US , Canada and the EU to designate Kahane 's Kach group as a terrorist entity . <p> On Wednesday , Netanyahu supported an alliance in the upcoming April 9 election between the Jewish Home-National Union Party -- a far-Right party by Israel 's political standards -- and the Otzma movement , suggesting a continuation of a general rightward shift in Israel 's political spectrum . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@82563875 <p> No Palestinian group claimed responsibility for the rocket fire . The Israeli army said Hamas was responsible for any attack transpiring in Gaza . <p> Cross-border violence between Israel and Palestinian militants in Gaza has ebbed and flowed in recent years . Last month , the two sides fought their worst round of violence in months . <p> Leaders from Hamas and the smaller but more radical Islamic Jihad are in Cairo , talking with Egyptian officials about cementing a cease-fire that would see some economic incentives and easing of restrictions on Gaza . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu warned at his weekly Cabinet meeting Sunday that no steps would be made toward any form of cease-fire as long as rocket fire continued . He said last month 's onslaught , in which 34 Palestinians were killed , including a top militant commander , would be just a " promo " to what came next if aggression from Gaza continued . <p> Hamas has fought three wars with Israel since seizing Gaza in 2007 and dozens of shorter skirmishes . 
@@82620570 <h> Israel to hold 3rd straight election , prolonging stalemate <p> Josef Federman , Associated Press <p> Updated 6:54 pm CST , Wednesday , December 11 , 2019 <p> FILE - In this Sept. 19 , 2019 file photo , Blue and White party leader Benny Gantz , left , Esther Hayut , the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Israel , center , and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu attend a memorial service for former President Shimon Peres in Jerusalem . Barring a nearly unfathomable about face , Israel is headed Wednesday , Dec. 11 toward an unprecedented third election within a year - prolonging a political stalemate that has paralyzed government and undermined its citizens ' faith in the democratic process . less <p> FILE - In this Sept. 19 , 2019 file photo , Blue and White party leader Benny Gantz , left , Esther Hayut , the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Israel , center , and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu attend a memorial service for former President Shimon Peres in Jerusalem . Barring a nearly unfathomable about face , Israel is headed Wednesday , Dec. 11 toward an unprecedented third election within a year - prolonging a political stalemate that has paralyzed government and undermined its citizens ' faith in the democratic process . less <p> JERUSALEM ( AP ) -- Israel 's deadlocked parliament on Wednesday failed to meet a midnight deadline to form a coalition government , triggering an unprecedented third election in a 12-month period while giving scandal-plagued Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu a welcome break as he fights to save his political career . <p> The move prolongs a year-long political stalemate that has paralyzed the government and undermined public trust in the government . The country now enters what once again is sure to be a bitter three-month political campaign that is expected to deliver very similar results . <p> " Keep your children away from the television , " said Yair Lapid , a leader of the opposition Blue and White party , saying the campaign will be a " festival of hate , violence and disgust . " <p> " What used to be a celebration of democracy has become a moment of shame for this building , " he added . " There are only three reasons for this election -- bribery , fraud and breach of trust , " he said , referring to the criminal charges filed against Netanyahu last month . <p> Following the Sept. 17 vote , Netanyahu 's Likud party and the rival Blue and White , led by former military commander Benny Gantz , both failed to cobble together a governing coalition . Then , during a final three-week window that ended Wednesday , they were unable to agree on a power-sharing agreement or find an alternative leader . <p> Both men had insisted they want to avoid another costly election campaign . And together , their parties control a solid majority in the 120-seat Knesset . <p> But neither was willing to compromise on their core demands for a unity government . Netanyahu insisted on serving as prime minister , where he is best positioned to fight his corruption charges . Gantz has refused to serve under a prime minister with such serious legal problems and called on Likud to choose a different leader . <p> Hours before the deadline , parliament took an initial step to dissolve itself on its own . But as speeches and committee work stretched into the night , the lawmakers managed to pass only one of three required readings of the bill on time by a 91-0 margin . Even after the deadline automatically dissolved parliament , lawmakers worked throughout the night to finalize the March 2 election date . <p> Given the divisions in Israeli society , and the deep mistrust between the opposing camps , there appears to be little hope that another vote will break the loop of elections and instability that has rocked the country for the past year . The recent campaigns have been characterized by mudslinging and accusations that Netanyahu has incited against the country 's Arab minority . <p> Netanyahu did not participate in the late-night parliamentary debate . But in a video on social media , he accused Gantz of courting Arab " terror supporters " and forcing new elections . " In order to prevent this happening again , there is only one thing we must do : win and win big , " he said . <p> The upcoming campaign is expected to cost the economy hundreds of millions of dollars and continue the paralysis until the middle of next year . With limited authority , a string of caretaker governments over the past year have frozen major legislation , key appointments , long-term planning and budgets for the military and important government ministries . <p> But for Netanyahu , the country 's longest-ever serving leader , a new campaign offers a much-needed lifeline . <p> Netanyahu is desperately clinging to power to wage his legal battle from the favorable perch of prime minister . Israeli law does not require a sitting prime minister to resign if charged with a crime . <p> Netanyahu can now use his office in the coming months as a bully pulpit to continue his attacks on prosecutors and police investigators , whom he has accused of staging an " attempted coup " against him . <p> Without a functioning parliament in place , Netanyahu can also put on hold his expected request for immunity from prosecution . <p> The outgoing parliament did not have a majority in favor of granting him immunity . Netanyahu can now hope that the next election delivers him a more favorable result . Netanyahu 's trial is on hold until the immunity issue is resolved , a process that is expected to take months . <p> After the March election , he also could use coalition negotiations as leverage to push potential partners to support his immunity request . <p> Yohanan Plesner , president of the Israel Democracy Institute , a nonpartisan think tank , said that being in the prime minister 's post during these negotiations is a huge advantage . " Because then one can trade politically important Cabinet portfolios and so on in return for support for the immunity , " he said . <p> Netanyahu 's first immediate challenge will be to fend off an insurrection inside Likud . The party announced Wednesday that it will hold a leadership primary on Dec. 26 . <p> One renegade lawmaker , Gideon Saar , has already said he will challenge Netanyahu , though the prime minister remains popular in the party and appears to have a solid edge . <p> Netanyahu could also face new legal questions . Although he is currently not required to step down , Israeli law is unclear about whether he could be given the authority to form a new government after the next election . Attorney General Avichai Mandelblit , who was criticized for his slow decision making before he indicted Netanyahu , will now have to rule on that question as well . <p> Even if Netanyahu overcomes these challenges , polls indicate that he will not be able to muster a majority in favor of granting him immunity or forming a coalition government . <p> Maverick politician Avigdor Lieberman , a former Netanyahu ally , has turned into the prime minister 's greatest nemesis . <p> Lieberman served in a string of Netanyahu governments , but then abruptly resigned as defense minister last December to protest what he thought were weak policies toward Gaza militants . <p> That resignation pushed the country into its current predicament , setting the stage for inconclusive elections in April and then in September . <p> Refusing to endorse either Netanyahu or Gantz , Lieberman has repeatedly called on them to form a broad secular unity government . But with all three leaders refusing to bend , a new election may not be able to break the deadlock . <p> Lieberman said the two big parties were responsible for what he called " unnecessary " elections . " Neither Likud nor Blue and White wanted a unity government , " he said . 
@@82730867 <p> Here 's the latest for Monday December 30th : U.S. announces military strikes in Iraq and Syria ; North Korea 's Kim Jong Un calls for unspecified offensive ; Police : Armed parishioners kill Texas church gunman ; New York stabbing suspect pleads not guilty . <p> A man accused of attacking a Hannukah celebration in New York state pleaded not guilty to five counts of attempted murder and one count of burglary . Grafton E. Thomas was arrested within two hours of the attack . ( Dec. 30 ) <p> Japan has revised a roadmap for the tsunami-wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant cleanup , further delaying the removal of thousands of spent fuel units that remain in cooling pools since the 2011 disaster . ( Dec. 27 ) <p> Israel 's prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu was rushed off the stage of an election rally on Wednesday after sirens rang out , warning of a rocket attack from the Gaza Strip . Authorities confirmed that a defensive missile intercepted the rocket . ( Dec. 26 ) <p> Three adults were killed in an apparent murder-suicide on Christmas Eve while four young children were inside the home , authorities in Lakeland , Florida said . The children were safely removed from the home . ( Dec. 25 ) 
@@82763072 <p> Here 's the latest for Monday December 30th : U.S. announces military strikes in Iraq and Syria ; North Korea 's Kim Jong Un calls for unspecified offensive ; Police : Armed parishioners kill Texas church gunman ; New York stabbing suspect pleads not guilty . <p> A man accused of attacking a Hannukah celebration in New York state pleaded not guilty to five counts of attempted murder and one count of burglary . Grafton E. Thomas was arrested within two hours of the attack . ( Dec. 30 ) <p> Japan has revised a roadmap for the tsunami-wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant cleanup , further delaying the removal of thousands of spent fuel units that remain in cooling pools since the 2011 disaster . ( Dec. 27 ) <p> Israel 's prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu was rushed off the stage of an election rally on Wednesday after sirens rang out , warning of a rocket attack from the Gaza Strip . Authorities confirmed that a defensive missile intercepted the rocket . ( Dec. 26 ) <p> Three adults were killed in an apparent murder-suicide on Christmas Eve while four young children were inside the home , authorities in Lakeland , Florida said . The children were safely removed from the home . ( Dec. 25 ) 
@@82822066 <h> Syrian state media says Israel is firing missiles into Syria <p> Syrian state TV gave no further details but residents of Damascus said explosions could be heard near the capital . State TV said one of the Israeli missiles was shot down near the Damascus suburb of Aqraba . <p> There was also no immediate comment from Israel . <p> The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , an opposition war monitoring group that has activists around the country , said the missile attack targeted Iranian and Syrian military positions near Damascus . <p> There were no immediate reports on casualties . <p> In neighboring Lebanon , Israeli warplanes could be heard flying in the country 's airspace at the time of the airstrikes in Syria . Damascus had said in the past that Israeli warplanes have fired missiles into Syria from Lebanon 's airspace . <p> Last month , Israel said it struck dozens of Iranian targets in Syria in a " wide-scale " operation in response to rocket fire on the Israeli-controlled Golan Heights the day before . <p> Israel has repeatedly struck Iran-linked targets in Syria in recent years and has warned against any permanent Iranian presence on the frontier . <p> Iran has forces based in Syria , Israel 's northern neighbor , and supports Hezbollah militants in Lebanon . <p> In November , Israel killed a senior commander of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad , an Iran-backed group in the Gaza Strip , setting off two days of heavy fighting . A separate airstrike targeted but failed to kill an Islamic Jihad leader in Damascus , underscoring the risk of escalation at various pressure points across the volatile region . 
@@82830075 <h> WATCH : Europe 's Largest Menorah Erected in Israeli Town Near Gaza Border ! <h> WATCH : Europe 's Largest Menorah Erected in Israeli Town Near Gaza Border ! <h> Related : <p> Europe 's largest menorah will light up an Israeli community this year that is frequently targeted by Palestinian rocket attacks . <p> This year , a Dutch Christian group donated Europe 's largest menorah to the southern Israeli city of Sderot , whose residents are frequently targeted by Palestinian terrorists shooting rockets at the Jewish state . <p> As a show of solidarity with Israelis living in close proximity to the Gaza border , the Dutch group donated the massive Chanukah decoration to the people of Sderot . <p> Let 's pray that no Israelis experience rocket fire during the eight-day Chanukah holiday this year . <h> Keep Israeli Soldiers Warm this Winter - Send Care Packages ! <p> We are honored to thank the young men and women of the IDF who risk their lives every day to defend the citizens of Israel . <p> Join us in sending winter care packages and personal notes of support to Israeli soldiers who are out in the 
@@82878475 <h> Television news anchor calls Yair Netanyahu a ' wise child ' <h> " Your father is our Prime Minister for ten years , he runs the country , " Channel 12 anchor writes to the young Netanyahu . <p> By JERUSALEM POST STAFF <p> DECEMBER 25 , 2019 19:11 <p> YAIR NETANYAHU at a recent court hearing . <p> ( photo credit : AVSHALOM SHOSHANI ) <p> Channel 12 news anchor Rina Matzliah responded on camera to a tweet by the son of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , Yair Netanyahu , in which he claimed she offered Gideon Sa'ar " a touchy-feely simpering interview " on the Wednesday news edition , Maariv reported . <p> Yair Netanyahu also ridiculed her surname , using the Hebrew word " masriach " meaning smelly . <p> In response , Matzliah said while on air to Netanyahu that " people say you are a wise and smart child , so I want to explain things to you . " <p> " Your father has been our Prime Minister for ten years , he runs the country , he is responsible for what is going on in Gaza . He is also responsible for the deficit . " <p> The Gaza Strip is currently controlled by the Hamas terrorist group and the State of Israel is expected to cut back NIS 20 billion in the 2020 budget to combat the growing deficit . <p> " Benjamin Netanyahu is also responsible for the good things that are taking place in the country , " she said , " and we as reporters are meant to criticize the actions taken by the administration , any sort of administration . " <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 
@@82887664 <h> WATCH : UN Ambassadors Witness Terror Tunnel and Iron Dome ! <h> WATCH : UN Ambassadors Witness Terror Tunnel and Iron Dome ! <h> Related : <p> Israel 's envoy to the UN Danny Danon recently took a delegation of fellow ambassadors to the Gaza border , to see Hamas ' terror infrastructure first hand . <p> UN ambassadors from around the world visited the Gaza belt with Israeli envoy Danny Danon . He showed them an actual Hamas terror tunnel discovered by the IDF before it could be used to harm Israeli civilians . Watch this INCREDIBLE diplomatic achievement for Israel ! <p> The delegation included ambassadors from Guatemala , Paraguay , Poland , Ethiopia , Romania , Ukraine , Estonia , and the Czech Republic , among other nations . Danon also brought the UN delegation to an Iron Dome battery in Netivot . <p> While the UN consistently pursues an anti-Israel agenda , ambassadors from member states are not afraid to confront the truth about Palestinian terror , which threatens Israelis on a daily basis . <h> Keep Israeli Soldiers Warm this Winter - Send Care Packages ! <p> We are honored to thank the young men and women of the IDF who risk their lives every day to defend the citizens of Israel . <p> Join us in sending winter care packages and personal notes of support to Israeli soldiers who are out in the cold all day . 
@@82904669 <p> A man accused of attacking a Hannukah celebration in New York state pleaded not guilty to five counts of attempted murder and one count of burglary . Grafton E. Thomas was arrested within two hours of the attack . ( Dec. 30 ) <p> An Iranian-backed militia says the death toll from U.S. military strikes in Iraq and Syria against its fighters had risen to 25 , and vowed to exact revenge . The Associated Press viewed the aftermath of airstrikes in western Iraq . ( Dec. 30 ) <p> Japan has revised a roadmap for the tsunami-wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant cleanup , further delaying the removal of thousands of spent fuel units that remain in cooling pools since the 2011 disaster . ( Dec. 27 ) <p> Israel 's prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu was rushed off the stage of an election rally on Wednesday after sirens rang out , warning of a rocket attack from the Gaza Strip . Authorities confirmed that a defensive missile intercepted the rocket . ( Dec. 26 ) <p> Three adults were killed in an apparent murder-suicide on Christmas Eve while four young children were inside the home , authorities in Lakeland , Florida said . The children were safely removed from the home . 
@@82982673 <h> " There will not be an arrangement without the return of the captives and missing soldiers , but there could be calm , " he told Army Radio . <p> Israel will not reach a long-term ceasefire arrangement with Hamas unless Israeli captives and the bodies of fallen IDF soldiers in Gaza are returned , Foreign Minister Yisrael Katz said on Monday . <p> " There will not be an arrangement without the return of the captives and missing soldiers , but there could be calm , " he told Army Radio . <p> Hamas has held the remains of Lt. Hadar Goldin and St.-Sgt . Oron Shaul since 2014 and is keeping Israeli citizens Avera Mengistu and Hisham al-Sayed captive . <p> The Egypt-mediated attempt for a ceasefire arrangement does not mean " the wolf will live with the lamb , " Katz said , citing Isaiah 11:6 . " This is an attempt to create some kind of calm in the short term . " <p> " Hamas is a murderous organization with a murderous ideology , but they have to make practical decisions in the short term , " he said . <p> " I 'm not sure it 'll work . There are rebellious factors in Gaza , " he added . " We can not accept a lack of quiet in the South or anywhere else . " <p> In the meantime , to keep Israel more secure , the government is examining whether a short-term ceasefire arrangement is possible , he said . <p> Katz 's comments came a day after National Security Adviser Meir Ben-Shabbat briefed the Security Cabinet on progress toward a long-term ceasefire arrangement with Hamas , which has said it will stop the weekly " Great March of Return " riots at the border with Israel for the next three months . <p> The Egypt-mediated ceasefire would involve Israel easing trade for Gazans , including increasing entry permits and broadening the fishing zone off the Strip , as well as allowing the construction of a natural-gas pipeline and greater medical assistance . <p> The media in Gaza reported on Sunday night that Israel will allow tires into Gaza , which were banned for two years , since the riots at the border began . <p> Gazan media also reported that Israel will allow imports of fishing boats , buses and fertilizer into Gaza and the export of strawberries . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
