@@31488655 <h> The international community must acknowledge their return is an obligation , not a bargaining chip . <p> For the last five years , since the most recent bout of fighting between Israel and Hamas , the remains of two Israeli soldiers , Hadar Goldin and Oron Shaul -- both abducted by Hamas in violation of a UN-mandated and European Union- and United States-supported humanitarian ceasefire -- are still being illegally held by Hamas , together with two Israeli civilians , Avera Mengistu and Hisham al-Sayed . <p> Tragically , and contrary to internationally accepted humanitarian norms , the repatriation of the soldiers ' remains , as well as the return of the civilians to their families in Israel , has been placed on the bargaining table in ongoing , indirect contacts with Hamas , mediated by the UN and Egypt , aimed at reaching a long-term ceasefire deal or settlement . <p> The right of families to know the fate of their relatives missing in connection with armed conflict , the obligation to handle human remains with dignity and to return them to their families , are basic , humanitarian , customary international norms and obligations that apply to all , in all circumstances . <p> These rights and obligations exist beneath and beyond specific , tactical or strategic issues arising during or following armed conflict and during negotiations for any political or military deal or settlement between conflicting parties . <p> They can not and should not be used as bargaining chips , and their repatriation can not be conditioned on any prisoner-exchange deal . <p> Conflicting parties engaged in seeking and negotiating ceasefires , truces and security and economic packages to bring an end to a conflict do not have the prerogative to pick and choose from among humanitarian obligations related to repatriating missing persons as to which might be politically or economically convenient or propitious for them . <p> All those parties engaged in any aspect of settling a dispute -- whether the conflicting parties themselves , or those states and international organizations engaged in assisting , mediating or facilitating aid packages -- all are equally obligated to accept , comply with and implement the basic humanitarian obligations to unconditionally recover missing soldiers and civilians . <p> Since the kidnapping of the soldiers was in open and blatant breach by Hamas of a UN-sponsored ceasefire , it is all the more incumbent upon the UN , and specifically on the secretary-general 's special coordinator for the Middle East peace process , former Bulgarian foreign and defense minister Nickolay Mladenov , to use all means to ensure repatriation of the soldiers and civilians without connecting such repatriation to any deal . <p> Clearly , trading the return of missing soldiers and civilians for other less humanitarian negotiating items , is tantamount to ignoring or downgrading the basic humanitarian obligations to unconditionally return missing soldiers and civilians . All involved in such inhumane trade in effect are violating humanitarian norms . <p> The international norms affirming the right of families to know the fate of their relatives have been developed over the years and stipulated in international conventions , resolutions and recommendations of various humanitarian bodies within international law and practice . <p> SOME 45 years ago , in November 1974 , the UN General Assembly adopted a resolution on assistance and accounting for persons missing or dead in armed conflicts , echoing the generally accepted humanitarian norms and " recognizing that one of the tragic results of armed conflicts is the lack of information on persons -- civilians as well as combatants -- who are missing or dead in armed conflicts " . <p> The resolution went on to declare " the desire to know the fate of loved ones lost in armed conflicts is a basic human need which should be satisfied to the greatest extent possible , and that provision of information on those who are missing or who have died in armed conflicts should not be delayed merely because other issues remain pending " . <p> The Assembly called upon parties to armed conflicts , regardless of their character or location , both during and after the end of hostilities , to " provide information about those who are missing in action , to locate and mark graves , to facilitate disinterment and return of the dead and to provide information about those missing in action " . <p> More recent recommendations and resolutions adopted by international Red Cross conferences , the UN Human Rights Commission and by the European parliamentary bodies , as well as a 2006 " International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance " ( to which Israel is not party ) , reaffirmed the prohibition of enforced disappearance and the right of families to know the fate of their relatives reported missing in connection with armed conflict , as well as the obligation to handle human remains with dignity , and to return them to their families . <p> On June 11 , 2019 , the UN Security Council added its own authoritative and significant voice in a unanimous , landmark Resolution 2474 , calling upon parties to armed conflict to take all appropriate measures to actively search for persons reported missing , to enable the return of their remains and to account for persons reported missing " without adverse distinction . " <p> The resolution reaffirms the " importance of allowing families to know the fate and whereabouts of their missing relatives , consistent with applicable international humanitarian law , which is of crucial humanitarian importance , " and goes on to urge parties to armed conflict to collect , protect and manage all relevant data and documents on missing persons ; to search for , recover and identify the dead ; to return remains , wherever possible , to their relatives . <p> Similarly , the Security Council urged all parties to allow safe and unimpeded access of humanitarian personnel , including those engaged in the search for and identification of missing persons or their remains , as soon as circumstances permit . It encourages UN special representatives , envoys , coordinators and advisers to take into account , while implementing their respective mandates , the issue of missing persons as a result of armed conflict . <p> The Security Council 's call for the return " without adverse distinction " of missing persons and of the remains of those killed , clearly emphasizes the importance for all involved parties , especially UN mediator Mladenov , of refraining from making such return conditional on other negotiating items . <p> In the indirect contacts with Hamas , through intermediaries such as the UN 's special representative and Egypt , all involved parties are obligated to abide by the international humanitarian obligations , and specifically not to enable use of missing soldiers and civilians as bargaining chips in any deal . <p> SUCH USE is an abuse of the feelings and sensitivities of the families , as well as a clear violation of accepted and obligatory norms of humanitarian law prohibiting any precondition or linkage of repatriation of missing persons to political , security or economic issues between the sides . <p> The return of Israel 's missing soldiers Goldin and Shaul , as well as Mengistu and al-Sayed held by Hamas , must be in a category all of its own . It overrides all other priorities in contacts between Israel , UN , Egypt and Hamas . It should not be relegated , conditioned or linked to negotiating issues , such as civil economic and humanitarian development projects in the Gaza Strip , transfer of funds to Hamas , or release of those imprisoned for committing acts of terrorism . <p> The obligation must be , first and foremost , and prior to anything else , to provide the families with information on the missing soldiers and civilians and to bring about their repatriation . <p> All other issues may be negotiated and inter-linked , but not the return of our missing soldiers and civilians , who should be above and beyond any potential deal or arrangement . <p> Since this obligation is fully accepted by the international community , and is an inherent element in all the world 's great religions , it is incumbent upon all countries and organizations to do everything in their power to bring the missing soldiers and civilians back to their families , without any condition or adverse distinction , and without any political connection . <p> The author is a former legal adviser to Israel 's Foreign Ministry , and former Israeli ambassador to Canada . He is presently director of the international law program at the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31504152 <h> Photos : Glimpses of Palestinian refugee camps , then and now <p> Dec 13 , 2019 16:51 IST <p> / <h> A Palestinian woman feeds a child at UNRWA 's rehydration/nutrition centre in Ein El Sultan camp in Jericho in the Israeli-occupied West Bank in 1960s ( L ) and a Palestinian woman feeds a child at the same camp on September 17 , 2019 . Middle East has lurched from conflict to civil war to peace and back again . But for Palestinian refugees in these camps , there has been little movement over decades . ( UNRWA / Mohamad Torokman / REUTERS ) <p> / <h> Nurses attend a child at a UNRWA health centre for Palestinian refugees in Beirut , Lebanon , in 1952 ( L ) and a Palestinian refugee girl receives a vaccination at a UNRWA clinic at Burj al-Barajneh refugee camp in Beirut , Lebanon on June 23 , 2019 . Visited by photographers decades apart , time seems to have passed at a different speed in many of the Palestinian refugee camps scattered across Lebanon , Jordan , Syria , the West Bank , East Jerusalem and Gaza . ( UNRWA / Aziz Taher / REUTERS ) <p> / <h> Newly displaced Palestinian refugees walk after fetching potable water in Al-Shati ( Beach ) refugee camp in Gaza City , in 1953 ( L ) and Palestinian women walk after fetching potable at the same beach on September 10 , 2019 . Young women balancing clay water pots on their heads in 1950s Gaza became the grandmothers of a generation who today have taps in their homes but still haul bottled water home because it is filtered , and so safer to drink . ( UNRWA / Ibraheem Abu Mustafa / REUTERS ) <p> / <h> Students attend a lesson inside a classroom in Jabal el-Hussein camp in Amman , Jordan , in 1971 ( L ) and schoolchildren attend a lesson in a classroom at one of the UNRWA schools at Jabal el-Hussein Palestinian refugee camp in Amman , on September 29 , 2019 . A key presence in these lives is UNRWA , the United Nations agency which provides services and protection to 5.5 million Palestinian refugees . ( Munir Nasr / Muhammad Hamed / REUTERS ) <p> / <h> Palestinian refugee students play in their schoolyard in Amman New camp , Jordan , in 1969 ( L ) and Palestinian refugee schoolchildren play at the same camp , on September 26 , 2019 . The UNRWA for Palestine Refugees in the Near East was created by the UN General Assembly 70 years ago to deal with thousands of refugees who had been driven from their homes or fled the conflict surrounding the birth of the modern state of Israel in 1948 . ( George Nehmeh / Muhammad Hamed / REUTERS ) <p> / <h> A Palestinian woman holding a child at UNRWA 's health centre in Rafah camp in the southern Gaza Strip , in 1969 ( L ) and a Palestinian woman holding a child at the same camp , on September 3 , 2019 . Many Israelis regard UNRWA - by far the largest humanitarian organisation handling Palestinian refugees - with suspicion . ( Kay Brennan / Ibraheem Abu Mustafa / REUTERS ) <p> / <h> A doctor examines a child in Baqaa camp , near Amman , Jordan , in 1969 ( L ) and a doctor examines a child at a health center at Baqaa Palestinian refugee camp , near Amman , Jordan , on September 29 , 2019 . ( UNRWA / Muhammad Hamed / REUTERS ) <p> / <h> Palestinian students attend a class inside al-Falah Elementary School in Gaza Strip in 1974 ( L ) and Palestinian students attend a class inside al-Falah Elementary School on September 2 , 2019 . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has said that UNRWA 's longevity had served to perpetuate , not solve , the refugee problem . " It is time ( for ) UNRWA ( to ) be dismantled , " he said in 2017 , urging the U.N . to " re-examine " its existence . ( George Nehmeh / Ibraheem Abu Mustafa / REUTERS ) <p> / <h> Palestinian school girls stand in a queue to collect UNRWA prepared food parcels during the first intifada in the Gaza Strip in 1988 ( L ) and Palestinian school girls waiting to collect snacks in a UNRWA-run school in the Gaza Strip , on September 2 , 2019 . ( Zaven Mazakian / Ibraheem Abu Mustafa / REUTERS ) <p> / <h> Palestinians walk in Nuweimeh camp near Jericho in the Israeli-occupied West Bank , in this undated handout photo ( L ) and Palestinians walk in the deserted Nuweimeh camp near Jericho in the Israeli-occupied West Bank , on September 17 , 2019 . A re-examination is due in the coming days , with the UN General Assembly to vote on renewing UNRWA 's mandate . ( UNRWA / Mohamad Torokman / REUTERS ) <p> / <h> An undated handout photo of Palestinian boys at Aida refugee camp in Bethlehem in the Israeli-occupied West Bank ( L ) and Palestinian boys posing for a photo in front of a section of the Israeli barrier in Aida refugee camp in Bethlehem , on October 19 , 2019 . ( UNRWA / Mussa Qawasma / REUTERS ) <p> / <h> Palestinian refugee girls push their belongings in prams and carts as they flee Jaffa in the wake of the first Arab-Israeli war in 1948 ( L ) and a boy rides a bicycle on a street in Jaffa , near Tel Aviv , Israel , on September 19 , 2019 . ( UNRWA / Corinna Kern / REUTERS ) <p> / <h> Young women play basketball at the Women 's Activity Centre at Qalandia in this undated handout photo ( L ) and Palestinian school girls play basketball at UNRWA 's Qalandia school , on September 17 , 2019 . Amid financial crisis and political uncertainty , Palestinian leaders warned of unrest if services were to vanish . But in November 170 countries voted in committee for UNRWA 's mandate renewal ahead of the main assembly . Only two - Israel and the United States - voted against . ( UNRWA / Mohamad Torokman / REUTERS ) <p> / <h> Palestinian refugees are seen sitting inside a tent in the newly formed Ein El Hilweh refugee camp in Beirut , Lebanon , in 1948 ( L ) and an elderly Palestinian man is seen with his wife at the Ain el-Hilweh refugee camp near Sidon , southern Lebanon , on September 24 , 2019 . Although nothing is certain in Middle East politics , such an overwhelming majority is unlikely to be overturned in the final vote , the agency 's supporters say , with no easy alternative available . ( Myrtle Winter Chaumeny / Ali Hashisho / REUTERS ) <p> about the gallery <p> History has marched on since they arrived in the middle of the last century , seeking refuge for what they thought would be a few weeks , but staying for a lifetime . Around them the Middle East has lurched from conflict to civil war to peace and back again . But for Palestinian refugees in the camps , there has been little movement over decades - only their memories and hopes can travel freely back to lost lands . The United Nations Relief and Works Agency ( UNRWA ) for Palestine Refugees in the Near was created by the U.N . General Assembly 70 years ago to deal with the hundreds of thousands of Palestinian refugees who had been driven from their homes or fled the conflict . But in November 170 countries voted in committee for UNRWA 's mandate renewal ahead of the main assembly . Only two - Israel and the United States - voted against . Although nothing is certain in Middle East politics , such an overwhelming majority is unlikely to be overturned in the final vote , the agency 's supporters say , with no easy alternative available . 
@@31504257 <h> Netanyahu vows to annex all settlements , starting with Jordan Valley <h> White House : No change in policy , Likud : US Oked announcement <p> Benjamin Netanyahu announces that if reelected , he will extend Israeli sovereignty over the Jordan Valley , September 10 2019 <p> ( photo credit : AVSHALOM SASSONI ) <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu announced on Tuesday that if reelected , he will apply sovereignty over all settlements in Judea and Samaria , starting with the Jordan Valley . <p> Netanyahu said the steps would be taken in coordination with the administration of US President Donald Trump . He revealed that Trump intends to announce his Middle East peace plan soon after the September 17 election , adding that he would wait with his annexation plan until after Trump 's " Deal of the Century " is revealed . <p> " I will not do anything without getting a clear mandate from the public , and so the citizens of Israel , I ask you for a clear mandate to do this , " Netanyahu said in his statement that he delivered at Ramat Gan 's Kfar Maccabiah Hotel . " There is a unique and once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to do something with broad consensus and bring safe permanent borders to the State of Israel . This will ensure that Judea and Samaria do not become Gaza , and that Kfar Saba , Netanya and Tel Aviv will not become like communities along the border of Gaza . " <p> Pointing to a map of the Jordan Valley , he said Israel could carry out the plan without annexing a single Palestinian , and ensuring that Palestinians maintain complete freedom of movement throughout the West Bank . He hinted that the plan had been coordinated with the US . <p> " Over the past few months I led a diplomatic effort , and over the past few days the diplomatic conditions have become ready , " Netanyahu said in what was seen as a reference to his meeting in London on Thursday night with US Defense Secretary Mark Esper , and long phone calls last week with US Vice President Mike Pence . <p> Sources close to Netanyahu said that Israel keeping the Jordan Valley is in Trump 's plan . <p> Israeli officials informed the White House in advance about Netanyahu 's statement . The White House peace team did not consider the statement as one that would prevent a future agreement between Israel and the Palestinians . <p> " There is no change in the United States policy at this time , " the White House said . " We will release our vision for peace after the Israeli election , and work to determine the best path forward to bring long-sought security , opportunity and stability to the region . " Netanyahu warned that if he did not win the election , Blue and White leaders Benny Gantz and Yair Lapid would not take such steps , and would not be able to handle the Trump administration 's plan . But both Gantz and Lapid have said in the past that they too envision Israel keeping the Jordan Valley forever . <p> Blue and White reacted to Netanyahu 's statement by sarcastically praising Netanyahu for " adopting Blue and White 's plan for recognizing the Jordan Valley . " The party accused Netanyahu of having a plan to give up the Jordan Valley in 2014 . <p> The Palestinians strongly condemned Netanyahu 's move , and warned that it will have negative consequences . <p> " Netanyahu is the chief destroyer of the peace process , and any foolish move he makes will leave negative consequences on him locally and internationally , " said PA Prime Minister Mohammad Shtayyeh . " Palestine is not part of Netanyahu 's election campaign , and if he believes that annexing settlement blocs will bring him more votes in the short term , then he and Israel will be the losers in the long term . " <p> PLO Secretary-General Saeb Erekat expressed concern over Netanyahu 's intention , saying that the " last thing Palestinians and Israelis need is to add fuel to the fire . We need to extinguish the fire . We need to make peace . " <p> Other Palestinian officials said that Netanyahu 's pledge to extend Israeli sovereignty to the Jordan Valley if reelected is a " declaration of war " on the Palestinians and the peace process . <p> Palestinian leadership will hold an emergency meeting in the coming days to discuss the repercussions of Netanyahu 's announcement , according to a PA official , adding that Netanyahu 's announcement means that the two-state solution is dead and the Palestinians will no longer abide by signed agreements with Israel . <p> Joint List MK Ofer Cassif reacted by saying that " to escape from prison , Netanyahu will try to annex tens of thousands of Palestinians , while depriving them of rights in what will become official apartheid . " <p> Even before Netanyahu 's address , the head of the Jordan Valley Council released a statement thanking the prime minister " for the historic decision . " The Yesha Council , an umbrella organization of Jewish settlement municipal councils in the West Bank , said " this is a very important time that the settlements have been expecting since their inception . " <p> The Yesha Council welcomed " the historic position , which places the settlements as integral parts of the State of Israel . " The right-wing Otzma Yehudit Party offered congratulations to Netanyahu for his Tuesday address , and said they hope " the prime minister will make the right decision : to form a strong right-wing government . " <p> Yamina candidate Naftali Bennett said Netanyahu needs to take action to annex the Jordan Valley , not just talk . <p> " These are only words , " Bennett said . " They can be implemented immediately . I call on the prime minister : pass the ' Jordan Valley bill ' in three readings tomorrow , instead of the ' cameras bill . ' " <p> Bennett pointed out that on December 14 , 1981 , under then-prime minister Menachem Begin , the Knesset passed the Golan Heights Law in all three readings in one day . <p> Netanyahu has made similar promises in the past and has not kept them , Bennett pointed out . <p> " Before elections Netanyahu promised construction in E1 in Ma'aleh Adumim , and after the elections it did n't happen , " Bennett said . " Before elections Netanyahu promised the death penalty for terrorists , and after the elections it did n't happen . Before elections Netanyahu promised to get rid of Hamas , and after the elections it did n't happen . <p> " Since I am certain of Netanyahu 's honest intentions , I can commit to all MKs in Yamina standing at any time , anywhere , to immediately pass a ' Jordan Valley bill , ' " Bennett added . <p> Blue and White and the Democratic Union asked the head of the Central Elections Committee , Supreme Court Judge Hanan Melcer , not to broadcast the speech . But he said he trusted media outlets to pull the plug on the broadcasts if Netanyahu veered into election propaganda . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31515150 <h> Senior Gaza official downplays winds of war between Hamas and Israel <h> " I think the Israeli side is also not interested in war on the eve of elections , " a senior Gaza official said . <p> By MAARIV ONLINE <p> MARCH 6 , 2019 11:50 <p> Indenciary balloons discovered on Gaza border , January 6 , 2018 <p> ( photo credit : BATIA HOLIN ) <p> " The Egyptian delegation is doing everything it can to lower tension and prevent war in the Gaza Strip , " said a senior Gaza official to The Jerusalem Post 's sister paper Maariv . " I think the Israeli side is also not interested in war on the eve of elections . " <p> The delegation discussed a truce with Israel and Hamas 's demands to implement an agreement reached four months ago at a meeting with Egypt , the United Nations and Qatar . According to the agreement , Israel must implement the ceasefire in three stages . <p> The first and most immediate one , is quiet for quiet . The second is the expansion of the fishing area and the entry of various goods into the Gaza Strip . The third stage is to transfer 150 megawatts of electricity to the Gaza Strip , as well as to create projects to provide jobs for the unemployed and open negotiations over maritime passage . <p> Top Palestinian sources reported that the Egyptian delegation may return with Israeli responses that could lead to an agreement between the sides and reduce the escalation on Israel 's southern border . <p> Hamas 's attempts to launch incendiary balloons at Israel actually increased on Tuesday night following the talks , and in the area of ? ? El-Bureij , violent disturbances began , in which explosive devices were thrown at the fence and attempts were made to reach the fence . An explosive device that was launched from the Gaza Strip with several incendiary balloons exploded near a kibbutz in the Sha'ar Hanegev Regional Council . In response , Israel Air Force planes attacked several terrorist targets in the Gaza Strip . <p> Israel believes that the increased activity by the fence and the influx of the incendiary balloons were intended , inter alia , to put pressure on the Egyptian delegation . According to a cautious assessment , there is a chance that there may be progress in calming the area following the talks . <p> At this stage of the talks , issues related to the easing of conditions for the residents of the Gaza Strip were raised as well as a solution to paying the salaries of Hamas officials . On the other hand , discussions are being held regarding Hamas ' commitment to calm the area and stop the launch of incendiary balloons towards Israel . At the end of the month Hamas will mark the anniversary of the beginning of the Great March of Return protests . <p> It appears , at least at this stage , that there are no discussion regarding the missing Israelis in the Gaza Strip and the return of the bodies of the IDF soldiers , Lt. Hadar Goldin and Sgt. Oron Shaul . It appears , then , that the Egyptian delegation is not engaged in extensive negotiations in an attempt to reach a broad-based settlement , which is unlikely to materialize before the elections . <p> Israel believes that the Egyptians are exerting great pressure on Hamas , especially in light their recent gestures and the easing of conditions , including the release of four Hamas military wing operatives and the opening of the Rafah crossing . <p> In the meantime , Hamas canceled the weekly flotilla events that take place every week opposite Zikim Beach . According to the organization , the events were canceled due to the weather , but apparently the real reason is the visit of the Egyptian delegation . <p> Yasser Okbi contributed to this report . <p> var cont = Sign up for The Jerusalem Post Premium Plus for just $5Upgrade your reading experience with an ad-free environment and exclusive content <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31519754 <h> We 've Lost Our Sense Of Outrage <p> Gary Rosenblatt 's column , " Anatomy Of A Takedown " ( Sept. 2 ) , depicts conduct which could fairly be described as rash and undiplomatic . <p> The objectors to Rabbi Blumofe 's planned visit to Arafat 's grave should have engaged in quiet diplomacy to explain that the sojourn would inevitably be misconstrued by the public as acceptance and recognition of the murderous anti-Semite and that Arafat 's rejectionist goals would be seen as worthy of debate . <p> While the overreaction in the situation was unfortunate , the episode and its fallout should not make us hesitant to push back when necessary . Jews can not sit idly by when those who would defame , endanger or eradicate Israel are legitimized . <p> Too often , in order to be " inclusive " and not to offend , American Jews fail to stand up to anti-Israel and even anti-Semitic people and movements . We allow colleges to receive BDS speakers with open arms . We tolerate efforts to silence pro-Israel speakers and professors . Our Federations welcome J Street despite its " Gaza 54 " letter seeking to supply Gaza and , in turn , Hamas , and despite its lobbying in opposition to AIPAC 's legislative efforts to protect Israeli lives . <p> J Street has even acquired " a seat at the table " because few leaders would draw a necessary line . Finally , despite Iran 's vow to destroy Israel , too many Jews allowed our politicians to accept Iran as a nuclear power and regional " player , " lest they offend President Obama . <p> In short , we have abandoned our well-founded sense of outrage . We have lost our sense of urgency to defend Israel against people and movements which , in many instances , such as BDS , only thinly disguise their ultimate objective of destroying Israel as a Jewish state , or worse . We are too willing to smile politely and " go along . " Hence , while Rabbi Blumofe 's critics may have been rash and undiplomatic , they were substantively correct and , thankfully , did not accept or tolerate the proposed visit , thereby eventually legitimizing Arafat 's rejectionism and terrorism . <p> By signing up , you agree to our terms You hereby accept the Jewish Week Terms of Use and Privacy Policy , and you agree to receive the latest news &amp; offers from the Jewish Week and its partners or ad sponsors . 
@@31519756 <h> We 've Lost Our Sense Of Outrage <p> Gary Rosenblatt 's column , " Anatomy Of A Takedown " ( Sept. 2 ) , depicts conduct which could fairly be described as rash and undiplomatic . <p> The objectors to Rabbi Blumofe 's planned visit to Arafat 's grave should have engaged in quiet diplomacy to explain that the sojourn would inevitably be misconstrued by the public as acceptance and recognition of the murderous anti-Semite and that Arafat 's rejectionist goals would be seen as worthy of debate . <p> While the overreaction in the situation was unfortunate , the episode and its fallout should not make us hesitant to push back when necessary . Jews can not sit idly by when those who would defame , endanger or eradicate Israel are legitimized . <p> Too often , in order to be " inclusive " and not to offend , American Jews fail to stand up to anti-Israel and even anti-Semitic people and movements . We allow colleges to receive BDS speakers with open arms . We tolerate efforts to silence pro-Israel speakers and professors . Our Federations welcome J Street despite its " Gaza 54 " letter seeking to supply Gaza and , in turn , Hamas , and despite its lobbying in opposition to AIPAC 's legislative efforts to protect Israeli lives . <p> J Street has even acquired " a seat at the table " because few leaders would draw a necessary line . Finally , despite Iran 's vow to destroy Israel , too many Jews allowed our politicians to accept Iran as a nuclear power and regional " player , " lest they offend President Obama . <p> In short , we have abandoned our well-founded sense of outrage . We have lost our sense of urgency to defend Israel against people and movements which , in many instances , such as BDS , only thinly disguise their ultimate objective of destroying Israel as a Jewish state , or worse . We are too willing to smile politely and " go along . " Hence , while Rabbi Blumofe 's critics may have been rash and undiplomatic , they were substantively correct and , thankfully , did not accept or tolerate the proposed visit , thereby eventually legitimizing Arafat 's rejectionism and terrorism . <p> By signing up , you agree to our terms You hereby accept the Jewish Week Terms of Use and Privacy Policy , and you agree to receive the latest news &amp; offers from the Jewish Week and its partners or ad sponsors . 
@@31521255 <h> Israel , Gaza militants in 2nd day of cross-border fighting <p> JERUSALEM ( AP ) -- Israeli aircraft bombed targets across the Gaza Strip and Gaza militants fired rockets into Israel early Tuesday , the second day of cross-border fighting that erupted in the last stretch of a closely contested race for Israeli prime minister between the long-serving incumbent and an ex-army chief . <p> The latest violence was triggered by a surprise rocket fired early Monday from Gaza , a territory ruled since 2007 by the Islamic militant group Hamas . The rocket slammed into a house in central Israel and injured seven people . <p> In response , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said he would cut short a visit to Washington , Israel sent troop reinforcements to the Gaza border and Hamas leaders went into hiding -- signals that both sides are heading into perhaps the most serious confrontation since a 2014 Israel-Hamas war . <p> Late Monday , Hamas announced a cease-fire had been brokered by Egyptian mediators , but the cross-border strikes continued into early Tuesday . <p> The conflagration comes at a time when both Netanyahu and his Hamas foes are in desperate situations , with little incentive to de-escalate quickly . <p> Netanyahu is in a tight race for re-election against former army chief Benny Gantz . Just two weeks before the April 9 vote , he faces tough criticism from political rivals , including in his own right-wing political camp , who accuse him of being too soft on Hamas . <p> Advertising <p> Hamas , meanwhile , is under growing pressure domestically because of its failure to get Israel and Egypt to ease their Gaza border blockade , imposed after the 2007 Hamas takeover . <p> Netanyahu signaled a tough response . <p> " Israel will not tolerate this . I will not tolerate this , " he declared during a White House meeting with President Donald Trump . <p> " Israel is responding forcefully to this wanton aggression , " he said . " We will do whatever we must do to defend our people and defend our state . " <p> Israel opened public bomb shelters in most major cities and civil defense authorities canceled sports events and public transportation in southern Israel . <p> The Israeli army said several dozen rockets had been fired into Israel on Monday and Tuesday , as air raid sirens wailed across southern Israel . The army said nearly all rockets were either intercepted or landed in open areas . <p> Israeli airstrikes hit military sites for Hamas and the smaller Islamic Jihad group . Gaza 's Health Ministry said seven Palestinians were injured in the airstrikes . <p> Advertising <p> Targets included the office of Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh . The Israeli military confirmed the bombing , saying the building had " served as an office for many military meetings . " <p> Haniyeh issued a statement warning Israel against heavy retaliation . He said the Palestinian people " will not surrender " and its militant factions " will deter the enemy if it exceeds the red lines . " <p> Another blast destroyed a multistory building in Gaza City that Israel said had served as a Hamas military intelligence headquarters . The airstrike was so powerful it sent debris flying onto the roof of The Associated Press bureau on the 11th floor of a nearby high-rise . <p> In Beirut , the powerful Lebanese militant group Hezbollah said its leader , Hassan Nasrallah , met Monday with a senior Hamas delegation . Hezbollah said they discussed the Gaza situation and " Israeli aggression . " <p> Hamas is facing perhaps its toughest domestic test since seizing control of Gaza from the rival Palestinian Authority 12 years ago . <p> An Israel-Egyptian blockade , imposed to weaken Hamas , combined with sanctions by the Palestinian Authority and mismanagement by the Hamas government , have all fueled an economic crisis that has left Gaza with an unemployment rate above 50 percent . <p> Hamas has been leading weekly protests along the Israeli border for the past year in hopes of easing the blockade , but the demonstrations , in which some 190 people have been killed by Israeli fire , have done little to improve conditions . <p> Last week , hundreds of Gazans protested the dire conditions , a rare expression of public discontent against the authoritarian government . Hamas responded with a violent crackdown , beating and arresting dozens of demonstrators and drawing rare public criticism . <p> The rocket attack , which caught Israel off guard , may have been an attempt by Hamas to divert attention from its growing domestic woes . <p> Israel and Hamas have fought three wars . Although neither side appears to have an interest in another war , fighting could easily spin out of control . The 2014 conflict lasted 50 days and ended with over 2,000 Palestinian deaths , including hundreds of civilians , and 73 killed on the Israeli side . <p> Netanyahu faces the difficult task of delivering a tough blow to Hamas while avoiding protracted fighting that could work against him on election day . <p> Monday 's attack came 10 days after rockets were fired from Gaza toward Israel 's densely populated commercial capital of Tel Aviv , and the Israeli military struck back . Gaza 's Hamas leaders said the rocket was fired accidentally and the fighting quickly subsided . <p> The rocket destroyed a residential home in the farming community of Mishmeret , wounding six members of a family . The Magen David Adom rescue service said it treated seven people , including two women who were moderately wounded . The others , including two children and an infant , had minor injuries . <p> The Israeli military said Hamas militants fired the rocket from southern Gaza . It said its Iron Dome rocket-defense system was not activated because the attack in central Israel had not been anticipated . The army added it was reinforcing its missile defense batteries in preparation for an escalation . <p> Maj. Mika Lifshitz , a military spokeswoman , said it was a self-manufactured rocket with a range of 120 kilometers ( 75 miles ) , making it one of the deepest strikes ever carried out by Hamas . <p> Lifshitz added that two armor and infantry brigades were being mobilized to the Gaza front and that a limited drafting of reserves was also taking place . <p> Several cities , including Tel Aviv and Beersheba , opened public bomb shelters . Civil defense officials canceled sporting matches and train service in southern Israel . Schools were ordered to hold classes in bomb shelters , and large public gatherings were banned . <p> Advertising <p> Netanyahu came under heavy criticism from allies and opponents for what they say has been an ineffective policy containing Gaza militants . <p> He has conducted indirect cease-fire talks through Egyptian mediators in recent months , and even allowed the delivery of millions of dollars of Qatari aid to Hamas to ease harsh conditions in Gaza . <p> " The reality in which Hamas turned Israel into a hostage is unprecedented and unfathomable , " his chief challenger , Gantz , wrote on Twitter on Monday . Gantz led the army during the last Gaza war in 2014 . <p> Netanyahu also came under attack from his own nationalistic allies . <p> " Israel 's deterrence has collapsed , and it has to be said in all honesty Netanyahu has failed against Hamas , " said Education Minister Naftali Bennett , head of the Yamin HeHadash faction in Netanyahu 's coalition . <p> The Seattle Times does not append comment threads to stories from wire services such as the Associated Press , The New York Times , The Washington Post or Bloomberg News . Rather , we focus on discussions related to local stories by our own staff . You can read more about our community policies here . 
@@31522657 <p> POWAY , Calif . ( AP ) -- The rabbi who led a service on the last day of Passover suffered a gunshot wound to his hands and two others endured shrapnel wounds as political , civic and religious leaders across the country struggled to make sense of another fatal attack on a house of worship six months after a mass shooting in a Pittsburgh synagogue . <p> John T. Earnest , 19 , surrendered to police after bursting into Chabad of Poway , north of San Diego on Saturday and opening fire with about 100 people inside , killing Lori Kaye , 60 , and injuring Rabbi Yisroel Goldstein , Noya Dahan , 8 , and Almog Peretz , 34 , authorities said . <p> Advertisement <p> Earnest , who had no previous contact with law enforcement , may be charged with a hate crime in addition to homicide , San Diego County Sheriff William Gore said . Earnest is also being investigated in connection with an arson attack on a mosque in nearby Escondido , California , on March 24 . <p> Goldstein told ' ' Today ' ' in a phone interview he was in the middle of his sermon when he heard loud noises . He turned around and saw he was ' ' face-to-face with this murderer , this terrorist . ' ' He said he put his hands up to protect himself and lost one of his fingers in the shooting . <p> There were indications an AR-type assault weapon might have malfunctioned after the gunman fired numerous rounds inside , Gore said . An off-duty Border Patrol agent working as a security guard fired at the shooter as he fled , missing him but striking his getaway vehicle , Gore said . <p> Shortly after fleeing , Earnest called 911 to report the shooting , San Diego Police Chief David Nisleit said . When an officer reached him on a roadway , ' ' the suspect pulled over , jumped out of his car with his hands up and was immediately taken into custody , ' ' Nisleit said . <p> Goldstein described Kaye as a ' ' pioneering , founding member ' ' of the congregation and says he is ' ' heartbroken ' ' by her death . <p> Advertisement <p> A friend of Kaye 's , Audrey Jacobs , said on Facebook that she was ' ' taking bullets ' ' for the rabbi to save his life , and the rabbi continued to give his sermon after being shot . <p> Almog Peretz , who had moved to California a few months ago from the rocket-battered town of Sderot in southern Israel near the Gaza border , said a man entered the synagogue and started shooting in all directions . <p> ' ' I was with my back to the shooter . I heard a shot or two and then turned around to face him and that 's when he fired at me . I ran quickly , picking up a small girl in my hands , ' ' he recalled in conversation with the Israeli YNet news site . ' ' He hit me once in the leg and I kept running . I did n't feel it much since there we so many bullets flying by . I heard them and I saw them right next to me . ' ' <p> Gore said authorities were reviewing copies of Earnest 's social media posts , including what he described as a ' ' manifesto . ' ' <p> A person identifying themselves as John Earnest posted an anti-Jewish screed online about an hour before the attack . The poster described himself as a nursing school student and praised the suspects accused of carrying out deadly attacks on mosques in New Zealand last month and at Pittsburgh 's Tree of Life synagogue Oct. 27 . <p> ' ' It was a hate crime , no doubt about it , ' ' national security adviser John Bolton said on ' ' Fox News Sunday . ' ' He said investigators have not seen any connection between the suspect and other extremist groups . <p> Advertisement <p> California State University , San Marcos , confirmed Earnest was a student on the dean 's list and said the school was ' ' dismayed and disheartened ' ' that he was suspected in ' ' this despicable act . ' ' <p> There was no known threat after Earnest was arrested , but authorities boosted patrols at places of worship as a precaution , police said . <p> Minoo Anvari , a member of the synagogue , said her husband was inside during the shooting . She said he called to tell her the shooter was shouting and cursing . <p> She called the shooting ' ' unbelievable ' ' in a peaceful and tight-knit community . ' ' We are strong ; you ca n't break us , ' ' Anvari said . <p> Rabbi Yonah Fradkin , executive director of Chabad of San Diego County , said that ' ' in the face of senseless hate we commit to live proudly as Jews in this glorious country . We strongly believe that love is exponentially more powerful than hate . We are deeply shaken by the loss of a true woman of valor , Lori Kaye , who lost her life solely for living as a Jew . ' ' <p> Donny Phonea , who lives across the street from the synagogue , turned off his power drill and heard someone shout , ' ' Police ! ' ' Then he heard three or four shots . <p> The 38-year-old bank auditor looked over his backyard fence facing the synagogue and saw people hiding behind an electrical box in the parking lot of a neighboring church . At that point , he knew something was ' ' very , very wrong , ' ' went inside and closed his doors and garage . <p> Advertisement <p> ' ' I 'm a little taken aback , ' ' said Phonea , who moved to Poway two weeks ago . ' ' I moved here because safety was a factor . Poway is very safe . ' ' <p> President Donald Trump offered his sympathies Saturday , saying the shooting ' ' looked like a hate crime . ' ' <p> ' ' Our entire nation mourns the loss of life , prays for the wounded and stands in solidary with the Jewish community , ' ' Trump said later at a rally in Wisconsin . ' ' We forcefully condemn the evils of anti-Semitism and hate , which must be defeated . ' ' <p> Gov . Gavin Newsom said he joins the community in grief . <p> ' ' No one should have to fear going to their place of worship , and no one should be targeted for practicing the tenets of their faith , ' ' he said . 
@@31525756 <p> Atlanta Israel Bonds hosted the President 's Club event at the home of Charlotte and Joel Marks Dec. 10 . Double healiners were Israel Maimon , Israel Bonds president and CEO , who came in from New York City , and Maj. Gen. ( Ret . ) Moshe Kaplinsky , keynote speaker . <p> Charlotte Marks welcomed the group of top-level givers by detailing her use of Bonds for birthday and special occasion gifts in addition to standard larger ones . Brad Young , executive director of the Southeast region , touted back-to-back years of record Bond sales , bringing Atlanta totals to 10 percent of national sales . <p> Stu Garawitz , national vice president of sales , said , " Over the past 69 years , Bonds have raised $44 billion as Israel 's insurance policy . Israel is one of the two countries that have a record of paying interest and principle on time , and thus been upgraded by S &amp; P. And the U.S. is not the other country . " He went on to explain that Bonds are a strong defense against the Boycott , Divestment and Sanctions movement , saying , " divestment versus investment . We are sending a message that we have Israel 's back consistently , all the time . " <p> Stu Garawitz , national vice president of sales for Israel Bonds , chats with Joel Marks , who hosted the event at his home . <p> Atlanta Advisory Council Chairman Ed Goldberg described his childhood journey starting with $18 bonds . " We have to commit to ensuring young leadership and women 's voices . " He laid out his clever formula of laddering bond purchases , buying at least one each year in five- to 10-year terms , so one would mature every year . " This provides a higher long-term rate and liquidity , " he explained . <p> Chuck Berk was praised as the new unanimously elected Israel Bonds national campaign chair beginning next year . He introduced Maimon with his impressive background in government , the private sector , and the Israel Defense Forces . He played a central role in the 2007 bombing of Syria 's nuclear reactor and had a seven-year partnership with Shimon Peres , Israel 's former president . <p> Maimon recognized Berk for facilitating a meeting earlier in the day with the Georgia state treasurer , where an additional $10 million Bond commitment was proposed . He continued , " It was an intense meeting where the Georgia general accountant expressed pleasure with their Bonds investment over the years . " <p> Later , Maimon spoke of the challenge of connecting the younger generation to their Jewish identity and Israel . " There are 50,000 new bondholders every year , held 60 percent by individuals and 40 percent by institutions . " <p> Joe Rubin , Atlanta Israel Bonds executive committee member , introduced Kaplinsky . He said Atlanta felt like home since he was wounded in Lebanon and subsequently sent to nearby Fort Benning . " My oldest son speaks with a Southern accent , and my other son was married in Georgia . " Kaplinsky is the CEO of a major Israeli infrastructure cement company but is best known for heading the Central Command of the IDF during the Lebanon War . <p> He emphasized that " Israel still has to fight every day for the right to exist . " The most important element is security , even as world views change , he said . " The main enemy is still Iran . Make no mistake , Israel will not allow a nuclear Iran -- for the sake of Israel AND the rest of the world . Even without nuclear weapons , Iran poses a threat with its fingerprint in Yemen , Saudi Arabia , Syria , Lebanon ... seen just two weeks ago in a campaign in Gaza where Israel had no casualties , but it was still unpleasant living with missiles firing . " <p> He elucidated the new kinds of warfare : the campaign to reduce the enemy 's flame or not allow the flame . " Cyber and media are huge ' weapons . ' The example given was Israeli intelligence discovering a tunnel from Iraq to Syria smuggling weapons . Thus , we do n't need a missile , they ca n't use the tunnel . " <p> The bottom line , he continued , is that " Israel makes lemonade from lemons . We 're a miracle country with technology and medical advances . Security concerns are not draining the quality of civilian life . " <p> He responded to questions from the audience : <p> Europe 's bonding with Iran : " Nothing new . What do you expect from them ? We have to rely on ourselves and our only ally , the U.S. " <p> Are sanctions working ? " Yes , it has them Iran in a dilemma . " <p> Trusting China : Two new ports are being constructed with Chinese investors . " I 'm not concerned about Chinese involvement . The risk is manageable . Former PM Yitzhak Rabin said , " I 'd like to sell one Bamba ( Israeli snack ) to each Chinese citizen . " <p> By signing up , you agree to our terms You hereby accept the Atlanta Jewish Times Terms of Use and Privacy Policy , and you agree to receive the latest news &amp; offers from the Atlanta Jewish Times and its partners or ad sponsors . 
@@31528650 <h> How the Left got Zionism wrong , the odd case of Chomsky and Arendt <h> Jewish thinkers like Hannah Arendt and Noam Chomsky do n't deserve their reputation as astute observers of Israel , a new book shows <p> By TIBOR KRAUSZ <p> DECEMBER 24 , 2019 22:28 <p> Misguided fellow travelers <p> ( photo credit : Courtesy ) <p> During a visit in 2012 to Hebron with the New York-based left-wing Zionist group Partners of Progressive Israel , Susie Linfield recalls witnessing the heavy Israeli security required to keep the small beleaguered enclave of ultra-nationalist Jews safe in the midst of a hostile Palestinian population . <p> To the Jewish American academic , the self-contained ghetto of " fanatical settlers " seemed like an atavistic throwback to a religiously insular mindset secular Zionism had set out to eradicate . The experience , Linfield surmises in her book The Lion 's Den , made her " ashamed to be a Jew . " <p> That is a curious sentiment . Whatever the merits of maintaining a Jewish presence in Hebron , Linfield is hardly responsible for the views , deeds and lifestyle choices of settlers there . By professing to be ashamed because of other Jews she does n't even know , she inadvertently reinforces the old antisemitic trope that Jews are a monolithic entity burdened with collective guilt for the actions of a few . <p> Barely the first page into her book we appear to be standing on shaky ground . Read on , however , and things begin to look up . <p> The Lions ' Den is an intellectual history of several prominent left-wing Jewish thinkers ' animus toward Israel . For it , Linfield , a cultural theorist at New York University , set herself a laborious task . In a political exegesis of sorts , she subjects to rigorous scrutiny the words and ideas of such celebrated lions of academe as Hannah Arendt , Arthur Koestler , Isaac Deutscher , I. F. Stone and Noam Chomsky . Linfield brings plenty of panache and perspicuity to the endeavor . <p> Pedantic philippics the likes of Arendt and Chomsky have long been seen to lend highbrow heft to the cause of anti-Israel advocacy . Yet in their substance , if not necessarily their style , their arguments were often indistinguishable from the manic outpourings of dime-a-dozen demagogues , firebrands and rabble-rousers . <p> Running through Linfield 's book is a recurrent insight into the mindset of her chosen leading lights : they could not help but see the realities of the Arab-Jewish conflict through the tinted prism of their political convictions and ideological preferences . Often , they chose outright to ignore history and facts on the ground . As a result , in their voluminous writings on Zionism and Israel , both got distorted beyond recognition . Likewise , they invariably opted to view Israel 's actions in the worst possible light while ignoring or downplaying Arab aggression and intransigence . <p> One of the worst offenders has been Chomsky , a linguist-turned-social commentator who has long been lionized in leftist intellectual circles with an outsized influence in academia . There are few anti-Israel calumnies to which Chomsky will not readily subscribe . He has warned of Israelis ' sinister " Judeo-Nazi tendencies , " labeled Gaza a " concentration camp ... under a vicious siege , " and insinuated Israeli Jews are edging closer to ethnically cleansing Palestinians . And he did all this in just one book of many on Israel , Gaza in Crisis , a collection of his essays published in 2010 . <p> Meanwhile , Chomsky patronizes Palestinians , whom he often treats as mere extras in a reductive Manichean morality play of evil oppressors and their innocent victims . To Chomsky , Palestinians are " unconstrained in their search for peace , " as Linfield puts it , while Israelis are incorrigibly belligerent expansionists . He refuses to take homicidal Islamism among Palestinians seriously , choosing instead to see its purveyors as peaceable souls brutalized into resisting Israel violently . <p> In Gaza in Crisis , for instance , he posits Hamas " has long been calling for a two-state settlement in accord with the international consensus . " In fact , Hamas has never deviated from its stated aim , duly spelled out in its charter , of eradicating Israel . Chomsky 's countless other essays and books on Israel and the Palestinians are similarly tendentious as he turns actual realities on their heads . <p> Chomsky obfuscates , distorts and fudges the facts . In a dubious form of scholarship , he frequently cites himself as the source for his own statements in a self-referential loop of rehashed claims that usually were not true the first time he made them . " Israel , he contends , is an ' ugly ' and ' sadistic ' society defined by ' criminality , ' ' utter hypocrisy ' and ' moral depravity , ' " Linfield writes apropos of Chomsky 's views on the Jewish state . " The shame , and the crime , is that he has misled generations of young people who know little if anything of Israeli , Arab or Middle Eastern history . " <p> That 's not to say Israel 's actions and its treatment of Palestinians have always been beyond reproach . Far from it . Yet by failing to provide anything remotely resembling an honest appraisal of them , Chomsky peddles a caricature of the conflict that no informed observer can take seriously . <p> Linfield is charitable about Chomsky 's obsessive anti-Israeli activism , arguing " some of his most deeply flawed ideas about Israel stem from his fears about its survival . " Is Chomsky a latter-day Jeremiah who castigates wayward Israeli Jews for their own sake in his vituperative jeremiads ? That 's debatable , to say the least . <p> Chomsky has n't been alone in passing off ill-tempered diatribes as learned commentary . In fact , what often differentiates intellectuals from garden-variety kooks is that the latter are not lauded for their reflexive prejudices and crackpot ideas . Thinkers like Chomsky are widely regarded as fearless truth-tellers . Yet on issues like Israel and the Palestinians they are often so hopelessly biased that their views are essentially worthless as anything other than partisan hucksterism . <p> Cockeyed views of Zionism have a long history among leftist Jews who have refused to take the Jewish state at face value , deeming it an aberration rather than a necessity . They often took Israel not for what it was and was intended to be -- a small self-governing haven for Jews -- but for what they wanted it to be -- a pioneering socialist state or harmonious multiethnic entity . Because the Jewish state failed to live up to their lofty expectations they came to despise it . <p> " Israel and the Arab-Israeli conflict are templates upon which the Left has projected all sorts of inapt ideologies , hopes , anxieties , and fears , " Linfield aptly observes . <p> A case in point is Arendt , who was highly perceptive about several pressing concerns of her time but was far less so on the Arab-Israeli conflict . Arendt was ceaselessly conflicted about Zionism and Israel , often to the point of parody . In short order she turned from a militant Zionist during the years of Nazi ascendancy in her native Germany to a vocal opponent of Jewish national sovereignty . <p> Just as Jews in the Yishuv were facing the prospect of being massacred by hostile Arab militias she kept on advocating for a nebulous form of Arab-Jewish commonwealth without the trappings of an independent state . The reason was Arendt saw ethnocentric states as reactionary . Massacres , terror attacks , murder and mayhem -- none of them , Linfield points out , " led Arendt to alter , or even question , her intercommunal prescriptions " for Palestine . " She wished away , rather than grappled with , an existential clash of claims and needs " between Jews and Arabs . <p> Arendt was also maddeningly mercurial . A few years prior , when Jews were facing unsurmountable odds to their continued existence in Europe , she castigated them for being passive , weak and fatalistic . An up-and-coming political theorist safely ensconced in New York , she rhapsodized about the historical need for muscular Jewish self-defense . Yet once Jews in Palestine set about defending themselves tooth and nail , she had second thoughts . <p> " The woman who had demanded an imaginary Jewish army now opposed the actual one ; the woman who had denounced Jewish submissiveness now opposed Jewish self-determination ; the woman who had insisted on the creation of a specifically Jewish political world now opposed the creation of a state to protect that world , " Linfield notes . <p> In subsequent decades Arendt remained ambivalent about the Zionist project , a primary reason being she " substituted political theory for facts , accompanied by a tone of imperious certainty . " <p> The same applies to numerous other intellectuals . Yet few left-wing Jewish thinkers were as insidious at times as was Arthur Koestler , a prominent Hungarian-born journalist and writer . In some ways a remarkable fellow , Koestler was a tormented soul forever in search of an ideology or political movement to anchor him in his topsy-turvy life during the turbulent decades of the 20th century . <p> An ardent communist turned fierce anti-communist , Koestler embraced , then discarded , a long series of causes with equal zeal . A self-described " Casanova of Causes , " he flitted passionately from one ideological entanglement to another . Frequently on the move , he was a wandering Jew with a " homeless mind " in the words of historian David Cesarani in his biography of the man . <p> Koestler was also drawn to far-out ideas and intellectual pursuits , including a pseudoscientific interest in paranormal phenomena . Although he started out as a militant Zionist and an admirer of Ze'ev Jabotinsky , the Hungarian-born author , who disdained David Ben-Gurion , came to wax ambivalent about Israel once it was birthed in blood , sweat and tears . In a diary entry he dismissed the country as a " totalitarian Lilliput that is no less totalitarian for the smallness of its people . " <p> Linfield labels Koestler an antisemitic Zionist , a designation occasioned by his acerbic contempt for his fellow Jews , whether in the Diaspora or in Israel , where he returned repeatedly for longer stays until 1948 . ( In his defense , Koestler could be no less scathing about himself . ) He pooh-poohed Judaism and Jewish culture , belittling them as vestigial " fossilized remnants " of ancient traditions . " Koestler 's smug confidence in dismissing the religion , history , and culture of the Jews was matched only by his ignorance of them , " Linfield argues . <p> In anti-Jewish circles , Koestler is best known for popularizing the notion most Eastern European Jews , especially in Poland , were genetically descended not from ancient Hebrews but from the Khazars , a pagan tribe of Turkic-Mongolian nomads . A number of Khazars converted to Judaism in the early 8th century before they went on to create a warrior kingdom between the Black and Caspian seas . They disappeared from history in the late 10th century . <p> The so-called Khazar hypothesis is routinely trotted out by Jew-haters to deny European Jews ' ancestral claims to Israel . Koestler 's aim in embracing it was , in part , to prove to Ashkenazi Jews , whom he exhorted to assimilate into their host societies , they had little in common genetically with ancient Hebrews . <p> The Khazar origins of Ashkenazi Jews , he posited , should also put paid to traditional antisemitism , which was fueled , according to Koestler , by Jews ' irksome insistence on being a " Chosen Race . " If European Jews are not semitic in their origin , " then the term ' antisemitism ' would become void of meaning , based on a misapprehension shared by both the killers and their victims , " he argued . <p> Make of that specious reasoning what you will . <p> Linfield does not dwell on Koestler 's take on genetic anthropology , preferring to move along and set about dissecting the often equally questionable views and arguments of French Marxist historian Maxime Rodinson , Polish Marxist writer Isaac Deutscher , Tunisian-Jewish author Albert Memmi and others . She 's a learned guide through a certain subset of anti-Israeli obloquy and her book is a welcome corrective to the reams of hokum that often passes for commentary and scholarship on the Arab-Israeli conflict . <p> The Lions ' Den serves as a timely reminder that views held by intellectuals , lionized though they may be , need to be taken on their merits and not on the reputation of those who hold them . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31528662 <p> Their meeting came days after Hamas got a warm welcome in Turkey , where its delegation met Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan . <p> Turkey and Qatar are key allies , both of which host Iranian delegations and are involved in supporting Hamas in Gaza and working on regional collaboration including supporting the Tripoli-based Libyan government . <p> The Hamas visit to Turkey and Qatar appear more like a victory lap for the group than a random trip . The high-level reception the delegation received illustrates Ankara and Doha see Hamas as if it is a state , as opposed to a terror group based in Gaza . Qatar has hosted Hamas chief Khaled Meshaal in the past . <p> No other non-state actors in the world appear to receive the reception Hamas gets in Turkey and Qatar . <p> The trip is part of a major Hamas delegation that is traveling the globe . According to reports it includes not only Haniyeh , but also wanted terrorist Saleh al-Arouri and Maher Saleh , Mousa Abu Marzouq , Nizar Awadallah and Izzat al-Risheq . <p> Turkey and Qatar view Hamas as having a role in their regional Middle East strategy . Turkey has been seeking to increase its role in the Middle East in recent years -- launching offensives into Syria , carrying out bombing raids in Iraq and building a military base in Qatar and Somalia . It even tried to lease an island in Sudan and wants to send the Turkish army to Libya . It sent drones to northern Cyprus this week and harassed an Israeli research ship . For Turkey 's ruling Justice and Development Party ( AK Parti ) , Hamas is a natural ally because both have roots in the Muslim Brotherhood . When the Brotherhood came to power in Egypt in 2012 , Turkey was a key ally of leader Mohamed Morsi . Morsi was overthrown in 2013 , and Ankara was outraged . For Turkey , Hamas is one of many armed extremist groups , similar to those it has recruited in Syria that help extend its influence . <p> Turkey has a long-term interest in Gaza . In 2010 , allies of Turkey 's ruling party tried to sail a large flotilla to Gaza and attacked Israeli special forces who boarded and stopped their ship the Mavi Marmara . Ankara has also sought to champion the Palestinian cause , comparing Israel to Nazi Germany at the UN in September and holding frequent meetings to condemn Israel 's actions . In November , Turkey slammed new Israeli housing projects in the West Bank , even as it was embarking on its own settlement and housing endeavors in Syria . On December 9 , after hosting the Hamas delegation , Turkey claimed to the Organization of Islamic Cooperation that Ankara was alone in the region in supporting the Palestinians . <p> Hamas feels some wind back in its sails after the Turkey meetings . It appears more relevant than the aging leadership of the Palestinian Authority . Hamas wants to go to Malaysia , where the antisemitic Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad will greet the delegation warmly , and also to Kuwait , Lebanon and elsewhere . Malaysia , Turkey and Qatar are key allies , and Turkey 's president has suggested working with Malaysia to create an Islamic TV channel . <p> Since March 2018 , Hamas has led demonstrations in the Gaza Strip under the banner of the Great Return March . Hundreds have been killed in clashes with Israeli security forces , and over 2,600 rockets have been fired from Hamas-run Gaza . At the same time , Israel has permitted Qatar to send financial support to the Gaza Strip . This is to keep the area from collapsing , but it also helps keep Hamas in power . <p> Israel and Hamas may see eye to eye on a few things , even if Hamas is a terrorist group responsible for many of the worst attacks on Israel in the 1990s and early 2000s . For instance , Hamas did not react when Israel launched Operation Black Belt in November against Palestinian Islamic Jihad . Even though Islamic Jihad and Hamas both have support from Iran , it is PIJ that acts on Iran 's orders . Israel sought to bifurcate the two groups , and successfully did so after a year in which PIJ was provoking Jerusalem . Iran 's Javad Zarif phoned the PIJ leader twice after Black Belt ended , praising their resistance . Hamas was more quiet , planning its December trip and not wanting to rock the boat . According to reports , Hamas leader Haniyeh met PIJ leader Ziyad al-Nakhalah in Cairo before going to Turkey . <p> In fact , Hamas ' December trip may be linked to Black Belt , enabling it to portray itself as responsible and able to come to a ceasefire agreement so long as it can trot around the globe appearing as if it is the " Palestinian " state . The Palestinian Authority is nonplussed . Its aging leadership under Mahmoud Abbas received none of the red carpet Hamas experienced recently , and it is being pressured into elections . Its few remaining friends , such as Jordan and some links to the Gulf and Europe , are not offering much moral or financial support . <p> Hamas briefed the Turkish and Qatari leaders on news in Jerusalem , the desire for elections and claims about reports regarding Palestinian refugees and Israeli settlements . Hamas also spoke to Qataris about the Israeli blockade of the Gaza Strip . Likely , it wants more than the $30 million a month its gets from Qatar . Al-Jazeera reports that Hamas may try to meet with Indonesian and Pakistani officials in Malaysia . There may be a summit there with Qatar , Turkey , Pakistan and Malaysia . Hamas wants to improve relations with Mauritania as well . <p> The Hamas trip represents the bolstering of an existing alliance and an attempt to energize this Palestinian group in the wake of various crises in the region , such as the Arab Spring , Syrian civil war , rise and fall of ISIS and US-Iran tensions . The US is still talking about the " Deal of the Century , " so by Turkey and Qatar pumping up Hamas , there can appear to be more to throw into the US deal and thus sabotage or sidetrack it . The US , however , is in a delicate position because it needs Turkey to deal with issues in northern Syria , and it needs Qatar , which is hosting talks with the Taliban and a US base . Turkey has threatened to close another US base , and the US administration is beholden to Ankara and Doha . Criticism that Qatar hosted Hamas in the past has evaporated , and the Trump administration , which supported Israel deeply , does not appear concerned about the Hamas welcome in Turkey and Qatar . <p> The emerging regional stance will include a united front of Qatar-Turkey with Hamas as the junior partner , likely partnered tangentially with the Turkish-backed Syrian National Army , Northern Cyprus , the Tripoli government of Libya , and Malaysia and Pakistan far in the distance , with Iran involved as well . Saudi Arabia has been working to remove Pakistan from this equation . The Palestinian authority will be weakened and forced into elections . Turkey and Qatari prestige are on the line with Hamas , and the more they can show they work with Hamas , the more leverage they have , not only over Israel , but also over the US and other countries involved in the peace process . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@82506256 <p> Here 's the latest for Monday December 30th : U.S. announces military strikes in Iraq and Syria ; North Korea 's Kim Jong Un calls for unspecified offensive ; Police : Armed parishioners kill Texas church gunman ; New York stabbing suspect pleads not guilty . <p> A man accused of attacking a Hannukah celebration in New York state pleaded not guilty to five counts of attempted murder and one count of burglary . Grafton E. Thomas was arrested within two hours of the attack . ( Dec. 30 ) <p> Japan has revised a roadmap for the tsunami-wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant cleanup , further delaying the removal of thousands of spent fuel units that remain in cooling pools since the 2011 disaster . ( Dec. 27 ) <p> Israel 's prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu was rushed off the stage of an election rally on Wednesday after sirens rang out , warning of a rocket attack from the Gaza Strip . Authorities confirmed that a defensive missile intercepted the rocket . ( Dec. 26 ) <p> Three adults were killed in an apparent murder-suicide on Christmas Eve while four young children were inside the home , authorities in Lakeland , Florida said . The children were safely removed from the home . ( Dec. 25 ) 
@@82537962 <p> " Israel today tested a nuke-missile , aimed at Iran , " Zarif said on Twitter , adding that the United States , Germany , France and the United Kingdom " never complain about the only nuclear arsenal in West Asia -- armed with missiles actually DESIGNED to be capable of carrying nukes -- but has fits of apoplexy over our conventional &amp; defensive ones . " <p> Israel today tested a nuke-missile , aimed at Iran . <p> E3 &amp; US never complain about the only nuclear arsenal in West Asia -- armed with missiles actually DESIGNED to be capable of carrying nukes -- but has fits of apoplexy over our conventional &amp; defensive ones . https : //t.co/r4EqXkhcCN <p> Early on Friday , the Defense Ministry conducted an experimental test of its rocket propulsion system from a military base located in the center of the country . Images shared on social media showed a projectile streaking through the sky . The launch was planned in advance and carried out as planned . According to Channel 13 , Ben-Gurion International Airport diverted air traffic during the test to allow for the system to be fired safely . <p> There was no comment on whether or not the test was successful nor what system was tested but some speculated that it may be the surface-to-surface Jericho system , an intercontinental ballistic missile which according to foreign reports can support a nuclear payload . <p> According to those reports , Israel has had the Jericho in it 's arsenal for decades with the most recent Jericho-3 entering service in 2011 . Israel is reported to be working on the Jericho-4 <p> With a multi-layered aerial defense , which includes the Iron Dome , Arrow and David 's Sling , missile system tests such as these are not uncommon . Rocket propulsion systems are designed to launch large systems such as satellites , ballistic missiles and large ground to air missiles . <p> Israel 's air defenses currently include : the Iron Dome , designed to shoot down short-range rockets ; and the Arrow system which intercepts ballistic missiles outside of the Earth 's atmosphere . The David 's Sling missile defense system is designed to intercept tactical ballistic missiles , medium- to long-range rockets , as well as cruise missiles fired at ranges between 40 to 300 km . <p> The advanced systems are meant to provide Israel with a comprehensive protective umbrella able to counter threats posed by both short and mid-range missiles used by terrorist groups in Gaza and south Lebanon , as well as the threat posed by more sophisticated long-range Iranian ballistic missiles . <p> The test comes as tensions remain high over concerns that Iran is continuing to entrench itself across the Middle East and has breached a number of commitments in the 2015 Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action ( JCPOA . ) <p> On Thursday , several European countries accused Iran of developing ballistic missiles capable of carrying nuclear weapons such as the Shahab-3 in violation of the JCPOA and the United States is reported to be considering sending thousands of more troops to the Middle East . <p> On Wednesday , a top Pentagon official was quoted as saying that Washington continues to see " indications " that Iranian aggression could occur and on Thursday the US announced that a " significant cache " of suspected guided missile parts was headed to Houthi rebels in Yemen including disassembled part for anti-ship cruise missiles , land attack cruise missiles , air defense missiles and anti-tank missiles . <p> Iran has several rockets which could reach Israeli territory including the Khoramshahr 2 with a range of up to 2,000 km. and Shahab-3 . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has warned that Iran is working to develop precision-guided missiles that can hit any target in Israel within 5-10 meters and has been entrenching in Iraq , Syria , Lebanon and Yemen to use as bases to attack Israel with statistical missiles and precision-guided missiles . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@82563052 <p> No Palestinian group claimed responsibility for the rocket fire . The Israeli army said Hamas was responsible for any attack transpiring in Gaza . <p> Cross-border violence between Israel and Palestinian militants in Gaza has ebbed and flowed in recent years . Last month , the two sides fought their worst round of violence in months . <p> Leaders from Hamas and the smaller but more radical Islamic Jihad are in Cairo , talking with Egyptian officials about cementing a cease-fire that would see some economic incentives and easing of restrictions on Gaza . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu warned at his weekly Cabinet meeting Sunday that no steps would be made toward any form of cease-fire as long as rocket fire continued . He said last month 's onslaught , in which 34 Palestinians were killed , including a top militant commander , would be just a " promo " to what came next if aggression from Gaza continued . <p> Hamas has fought three wars with Israel since seizing Gaza in 2007 and dozens 
@@82824851 <p> JERUSALEM ( AP ) -- Israel announced on Sunday that it will allow Christians in the Gaza Strip to travel to Jerusalem and the West Bank for Christmas . <p> Until its notice just two days before the holiday , it was unclear whether Israel would grant permits to members of Gaza 's tiny Christian community to leave the Hamas-ruled coastal territory . <p> COGAT , the Israeli defense body responsible for Palestinian civil affairs , said the permits would be issued " in accordance with security assessments and without regard to age . " <p> COGAT had earlier said that Israel had not yet decided whether to issue the permits en masse and was considering individual permit requests . COGAT said it also was allowing 100 Christians from Gaza to travel abroad . <p> We ca n't do it without you . Support local journalism with our BEST DEAL EVER ! <p> In previous years , Israel has granted travel permits to large numbers of Gaza Christians to visit religious sites and spend time with family in Israel and the West Bank . <p> About 1,000 Christians live in Gaza , a tiny fraction of the territory 's 2 million people . Most are Greek Orthodox , with Catholics making up about a quarter of the small community . <h> Be the first to know <p> We 'll send breaking news and news alerts to you as as they happen ! <p> * I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy . <p> While the ruling Islamic militant Hamas movement considers the Christians a protected minority , they have been targeted over the years by Islamic zealots . The Christian community has greatly dwindled since Hamas took power in 2007 , with large numbers emigrating to flee conflict and difficult living conditions . <p> Israel and Egypt have maintained a tight blockade over Gaza since the Hamas takeover . Residents require permits to leave the territory . <h> Be the first to know <p> We 'll send breaking news and news alerts to you as as they happen ! <p> * I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy . <p> Copyright 2019 The Associated Press . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed . <h> Watch this discussion.Stop watching this discussion . <h> ( 0 ) comments <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history 
@@82834459 <h> Syrian state media says Israel is firing missiles into Syria <p> Syrian state TV gave no further details but residents of Damascus said explosions could be heard near the capital . State TV said one of the Israeli missiles was shot down near the Damascus suburb of Aqraba . <p> There was also no immediate comment from Israel . <p> The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , an opposition war monitoring group that has activists around the country , said the missile attack targeted Iranian and Syrian military positions near Damascus . <p> There were no immediate reports on casualties . <p> In neighboring Lebanon , Israeli warplanes could be heard flying in the country 's airspace at the time of the airstrikes in Syria . Damascus had said in the past that Israeli warplanes have fired missiles into Syria from Lebanon 's airspace . <p> Last month , Israel said it struck dozens of Iranian targets in Syria in a " wide-scale " operation in response to rocket fire on the Israeli-controlled Golan Heights the day before . <p> Israel has repeatedly struck Iran-linked targets in Syria in recent years and has warned against any permanent Iranian presence on the frontier . <p> Iran has forces based in Syria , Israel 's northern neighbor , and supports Hezbollah militants in Lebanon . <p> In November , Israel killed a senior commander of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad , an Iran-backed group in the Gaza Strip , setting off two days of heavy fighting . A separate airstrike targeted but failed to kill an Islamic Jihad leader in Damascus , underscoring the risk of escalation at various pressure points across the volatile region . <p> Copyright 2019 by The Associated Press . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed. 
@@82835150 <h> Syrian state media says Israel is firing missiles into Syria <p> Syrian state TV gave no further details but residents of Damascus said explosions could be heard near the capital . State TV said one of the Israeli missiles was shot down near the Damascus suburb of Aqraba . <p> There was also no immediate comment from Israel . <p> The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , an opposition war monitoring group that has activists around the country , said the missile attack targeted Iranian and Syrian military positions near Damascus . <p> There were no immediate reports on casualties . <p> In neighboring Lebanon , Israeli warplanes could be heard flying in the country 's airspace at the time of the airstrikes in Syria . Damascus had said in the past that Israeli warplanes have fired missiles into Syria from Lebanon 's airspace . <p> Last month , Israel said it struck dozens of Iranian targets in Syria in a " wide-scale " operation in response to rocket fire on the Israeli-controlled Golan Heights the day before . <p> Israel has repeatedly struck Iran-linked targets in Syria in recent years and has warned against any permanent Iranian presence on the frontier . <p> Iran has forces based in Syria , Israel 's northern neighbor , and supports Hezbollah militants in Lebanon . <p> In November , Israel killed a senior commander of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad , an Iran-backed group in the Gaza Strip , setting off two days of heavy fighting . A separate airstrike targeted but failed to kill an Islamic Jihad leader in Damascus , underscoring the risk of escalation at various pressure points across the volatile region . <p> Copyright 2019 by The Associated Press . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed. 
@@82890562 <h> WATCH : UN Ambassadors Witness Terror Tunnel and Iron Dome ! <h> WATCH : UN Ambassadors Witness Terror Tunnel and Iron Dome ! <h> Related : <p> Israel 's envoy to the UN Danny Danon recently took a delegation of fellow ambassadors to the Gaza border , to see Hamas ' terror infrastructure first hand . <p> UN ambassadors from around the world visited the Gaza belt with Israeli envoy Danny Danon . He showed them an actual Hamas terror tunnel discovered by the IDF before it could be used to harm Israeli civilians . Watch this INCREDIBLE diplomatic achievement for Israel ! <p> The delegation included ambassadors from Guatemala , Paraguay , Poland , Ethiopia , Romania , Ukraine , Estonia , and the Czech Republic , among other nations . Danon also brought the UN delegation to an Iron Dome battery in Netivot . <p> While the UN consistently pursues an anti-Israel agenda , ambassadors from member states are not afraid to confront the truth about Palestinian terror , which threatens Israelis on a daily basis . <h> Keep Israeli Soldiers Warm this Winter - Send Care Packages ! <p> We are honored to thank the young men and women of the IDF who risk their lives every day to defend the citizens of Israel . <p> Join us in sending winter care packages and personal notes of support to Israeli soldiers who are out in the cold all day . 
@@82899052 <h> Rocket Launched From Gaza Forces Israel PM To Evacuate Election Rally <h> KEY POINTS <p> A Rocket was fired from Gaza Strip to Ashkelon <p> Netanyahu was holding a campaign rally at the city <p> No casualties were reported in the incident <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was forced to be hustled from a stage during election rally Wednesday after a rocket was fired from the Gaza strip to the southern territory in Israel where the rally was being held . <p> Netanyahu took shelter briefly but resumed the event later on . <p> Ashkelon , which is 7.5 miles from the Gaza strip was the target of the rocket , which was intercepted by Israel 's air defense system , the Iron Dome , according to the Israel military . <p> The coastal Palestinian enclave did not immediately claim responsibility for the attack . <p> For starters , Netanyahu was campaigning to keep the helm of his conservative Likud party , Reuters reported . The primaries of the internal election were just hours away when the incident took place . Israeli TV stations showed videos of Netanyahu and his wife slowly walking off the stage flanked by guards as the sirens went off . <p> Resuming the event , Netanyahu made a veiled threat to the people responsible for the attack . " Whoever tried to make an impression just now should pack his bags , " Reuters quoted him saying . <p> Early Thursday , airstrikes were carried out at three military bases of Hamas Islamists , which currently controls the Gaza strip , by Israeli fighter jets and helicopters , AP News reported . The sites were empty and no casualties were reported . <p> Israel 's military made no comments on the attack . <p> A similar incident occurred in September when Netanyahu 's appearance in the nearby town of Ashdod was disrupted by a rocket siren . <p> The Prime Minister , who faces a tough battle ahead of the March general elections , came under attack from his political rivals for not being able to stem the attack from Gaza . <p> " The situation in which Israeli citizens live at the mercy of terrorists and the prime minister of Israel is unable to tour parts of his country is a badge of shame on the security policy in the south - and a loss of deterrence that no sovereign country can accept , " Netanyahu 's centrist rival Benny Gantz said in a statement Wednesday . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , who faces a party leadership challenge on Thursday , addressed Likud party supporters during a meeting in the Israeli city of Petah Tikva near Tel Aviv on December 18Photo : AFP / Jack GUEZ 
@@82947052 <p> A horrific anti Jewish attack is being reported from Monsey where reports say multiple Jewish people were stabbed at the conclusion of Shabbos Chanukah . <p> According to reports , a black male entered Rabbi Rottenburg 's Shul , located in the Forshay neighborhood in Monsey , and pulled out a machete , VINnews said . <p> People present said the attacker removed the cover from the sharp blade and proceeded to stab several people . One of the victims was stabbed in the chest . <p> The perpetrator then ran out and escaped in a vehicle . His plates were spotted before he left , and the police are currently searching for him . <p> Video clips show that Hatzalah medical volunteers is on scene and are treating the victims . <p> CBS New York 's Tony Aiello reports at least five people been taken to area hospitals with injuries . <p> While the motives of the attacker are not verified yet , this attack happened amid a slew of violent and even deadly attacks against members of the Jewish community in New York , New Jersey and elsewhere . <p> " At 9:50 this eve , a call came in about a mass stabbing at 47 Forshay Road in Monsey ( Rockland County ; 30 miles North of NYC ) . It 's the house of a Hasidic Rabbi . 5 patients with stab wounds , all Hasidic , were transported to local hospitals , " Orthodox Jewish Public Affairs Council ( OJPAC ) of Hudson Valley said . <p> " Two of the victims of the attack were taken into hospital as critical . The perp 's face was partially covered with a scarf but skin showed him to be an African American . " <p> The counterterrorism unit of the NYPD said : " We are closely monitoring the reports of multiple people stabbed at a synagogue in Monsey , NY ( Rockland County ) . " <p> New York Attorney General Letitia James : " I am deeply disturbed by the situation unfolding in Monsey , New York tonight . There is zero tolerance for acts of hate of any kind and we will continue to monitor this horrific situation . I stand with the Jewish community tonight and every night . " <p> The NYPD has been searching for the suspect In a vehicle which was seen crossing the 145th St Bridge toward the Bronx . Suspect was said to be driving a gray Nissan Sentra with NYS license plate reading HPT5757 . <p> Update : 12:05 am Several reports say the NYPD stopped a vehicle matching the description at W 177 Street and 7th Avenue in Harlem at around mindnight , and a suspect from the vehicle was taken into custody . <p> Ramapo PD says the suspect is in custody : " The suspect fled the scene , but he is in custody at this time . This investigation is still ongoing , " they said . <p> Update : 6:00 am Officials are still working an active crime scene , Ramapo Police Chief Brad Weidel said in a news conference . <p> He said a suspect , described as a tall black man , was apprehended by police . <p> New York Gov . Andrew Cuomo said the stabbing was " the latest in a string of attacks against members of the Jewish community in New York this week . " <p> " Let me be clear : anti-Semitism and bigotry of any kind are repugnant to our values of inclusion and diversity and we have absolutely zero tolerance for such acts of hate , " the governor said in a statement . <p> He directed the state 's Hate Crime Task Force to investigate the incident . The Anti-Defamation League ( ADL ) of New York also said they were heading to the scene to learn more and coordinate with law enforcement . In response to the attack , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Israel would work with local authorities to deal with incidents of anti-Semitism . <p> " Israel condemns in every sense the latest anti-Semitic incidents and the brutal attack in the middle of Hanukkah at the rabbi 's house in Monsey , New York . We send wishes for a speedy recovery to the injured , " he said at the start of the weekly cabinet meeting . " We will work together in every way with the local authorities in order to help eliminate this phenomena . We offer our help to all countries . " <h> 100 <h> Opinions and Comments <p> To keep track of your comments , follow a conversation or flag a comment Login <p> Connect with <p> I allow to create an account <p> When you login first time using a Social Login button , we collect your account public profile information shared by Social Login provider , based on your privacy settings . We also get your email address to automatically create an account for you in our website . Once your account is created , you 'll be logged-in to this account . <p> DisagreeAgree <p> Connect with <p> I allow to create an account <p> When you login first time using a Social Login button , we collect your account public profile information shared by Social Login provider , based on your privacy settings . We also get your email address to automatically create an account for you in our website . Once your account is created , you 'll be logged-in to this account . <p> DisagreeAgree <p> Subscribe <p> newestoldestmost voted <p> Notify of <p> I allow COLlive to use my email address and send notification about new comments and replies ( you can unsubscribe at any time ) . <p> If this guy was a true idiot Republican ( gun lover ) , there would have been 15 dead , not wounded <p> Vote Up1-25Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> false ! ! ! ! ! ! <p> these criminals clearly do n't care about the law , how ironic .. he tried to kill people which shows that nothing will stay in his way , so the reason why he had a machete was NOT because the law does n't allow guns , We have to protect ourselves with guns so we could stop the guy immediately ! Did you ever hear of people stopping terrorist in Israel trough throwing chair and tables at them ? No , we just stop terrorist faster shooting at them before their stab our brothers ! Criminals do n't care about any law ! They can get guns if they Want ! All gun ... Read more ? <p> Vote Up8-1Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> More guns ! <p> Give rifles to everybody , yeeeeaah . If this guy had a gun there would have been 15 dead , my maniac 2nd amendment lover . <p> Vote Up5-26Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Greater caution <p> Or maybe the guy would think twice before firing , if he sees a number of people who also have guns . <p> Vote Up120Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Ms. Elana Nazari <p> X <p> Vote Up0-1Vote Down Reply <p> 1 day ago <p> Guest <p> The 2nd Amendment <p> Yes it is <p> Vote Up3-1Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Wrong . <p> Look it up . New York state has permitles carry for long arms . If you are over 18 you can walk into a store and buy a rifle ( after a federal background check ) . Now in regards to small arms , ( pistols ) in new York state , you can buy one at 21 . Carrying may be a little more difficult . <p> Every shul should buy one and keep it in a safe and easily accessible place . It 's a matter of walking in to any gun store . Learn your Rights <p> Vote Up11-2Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Wrong <p> Not in the 5 boros . Here even long guns need a permit <p> Vote Up10Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Lock it up <p> Yea that makes total sense , buy a gun and keep it locked up , because you will have ample time to sneak over and unlock the safe in the middle of an attack . Every shul needs shomrim with guns , period . <p> Vote Up30Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Not gon na happen buddy not in blue NYS <p> The harshest anti-gun laws in the nation . <p> Vote Up8-2Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Some many other ways <p> WHEN WILL THE JEWS LEARN TO TAKE SOMETHING TO DEFEND THEMSELVES ? for years I 've been yelling ... take a class , take a fork , a steak knife , a concealed gun , mace , hair spray , wasp spray ... Something ... Jews must carry WHATEVER ! Learn to fight , take Krav Maga and defend themselves ... no more excuses for a world that hates us . We must change our mental ways of thinking ... we have been through this from time and memorial ... Enough is enough ! Wake up JEWS ! In Minneapolis or in New York , in the Orthodox Jewish community , people must take back the streets as Americans , against the ... Read more ? <p> Vote Up39-3Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Trained dogs <p> Security dogs will protect you . <p> Vote Up20Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Wasp spray <p> It works great <p> Vote Up00Vote Down Reply <p> 1 day ago <p> Guest <p> So what good would it do in NY <p> When the incident was in NJ ! <p> Vote Up0-2Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> MONSEY ? ? ? ? <p> Is in new York . Very close to NJ , but in NY . <p> Vote Up10Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Firearms training and carry permits now ! <p> Never again . <p> Vote Up14-2Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Agree <p> This contagion is spreading rapidly . It starts with the Jews but does n't end there . This mania spreads and in the end it is genocide . The LGBT community has a self defense organization called the Pink Pistols . The NRA assists this group . The right of self defense is a fundamental , God given human right . I urge all who as disturbed as I am about this to get trained , obtain a Concealed Weapons Permit and carry to defend yourself , your family , your friends and your community . These terrorist are cowards . They only attack soft targets . The Jewish community should never be a ... Read more ? <p> I have been asking members of the boards of local crown heights girls and boys schools why they do n't have armed guards , the excuse they gave was that " they do n't have funding for it " ! Can you imagine ? Really ? They have funding to serve the kids chicken , and go on year end trips and paint the walls , but no funding for what is important ? ? ? ? Where are the priorities ? ? ? ? Do we need another school building with another gym ? Another brochure or another international campaign ? What is wrong with these people ? Why do we allow these self appointed board members make decisions for ... Read more ? <p> Vote Up160Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Yes <p> Agreed . <p> Vote Up40Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Forget the armed guards <p> Just make the shuls more like fortresses with a tower and spotlights at the top . Arm the guards there with machine guns and simply kill anyone within a 5 meter radius from the building . <p> Vote Up2-1Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Only long term solution <p> Guns and security are the short term solution . The long term solution is increasing the awareness and observance of the 7 Universal Laws and a Moment of Silence in the public schools . <p> Vote Up00Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Heaven <p> Ha ha we banned guns here via the Dems . <p> Vote Up00Vote Down Reply <p> 1 day ago <p> Guest <p> Terrorist attack inMonsey <p> What is wrong with ALL the Jewish communities ... You need armed guards . We are living in difficult times .. Sephardi Shuls have had armed guards for a few years now ... Wake up our Ashkenazi Brother and sisters .. <p> Vote Up300Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Care to sponsor that ? <p> Got ta be practical my friend . <p> Vote Up3-1Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> No armed guards <p> No ! We need G-d 's protection and until we do teshuva and stop the lashon hara snd increase the ahavas israel big time , we are n't going to merit His protection ! <p> Vote Up3-8Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Fake news <p> Yes ! <p> Vote Up00Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Not Really <p> Sounds beautiful and we should do as you say but until that happens we need to take matters In our own hands and protect ourselves just like the Jewish Resistance in nazi German occupied Europe . Thats what G-D would want from us . Tons of episodes in the Torah where we protected ourselves . <p> Vote Up2-1Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Responsibility for attacks <p> The Lubavitcher Rebbe asserted that All Jews are innately good and do not deserve to be attacked ! ! He is correct ! ! The attackers are Evil rashas ( rodefs ) Rav Mier Kahane organized the JDL to patrol dangerous areas . <p> Vote Up50Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Do our part <p> Ever heard of histadlus ? You are in a dream world , how many more attacks do you need to see on Jews before you realize that WE have to do our part . <p> Vote Up00Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> I used to daven there , they have people who carry <p> I used to daven at that Shul and lived next to a guy who carried a pistol to every minyan . Likely the assault happened too fast . <p> Vote Up20Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Names <p> Yosef ben Perel Chaim ben vittel Naftula tzvi ben gila <p> Vote Up30Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Names to say tehillim for . <p> Yosef ben Perel Chaim ben Vittel Naftali tzvi ben Gila <p> Vote Up40Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> MOSHIACH NOW <p> oh my goodness . hashem we need moshiach <p> Vote Up6-1Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Duh <p> and in the interim , anything to be done ? <p> Vote Up2-3Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> We should n't have to take this anymore <p> only one that will protect us ( with Hashem ) is ourselves -- no lipservice by an incompetant mayor will help . <p> Vote Up10-1Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Spiritual War <p> This is a spiritual war . HaShem allowed this to happen because we are divided as a nation . We need to do teshuva , stop speaking lashon hara about each other , and increase the ahavas israel big tome and quick if we want Him to protect us ! <p> Vote Up5-3Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Do n't worry <p> Do n't worry ny is very safe because you ca n't carry a gun . And the police will increase patrols so we are fine . <p> Vote Up3-13Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> a sincere question <p> Wait , is this *another* stabbing in Monsey , NY ? One Jewish man was stabbed in Monsey on November 20 , 2019 . I do n't know if people are getting mixed up , or if there really were two separate incidents . <p> Vote Up1-2Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Are you a confused person ? <p> Or just trying to spread fake news . Yes there were more than 2 incidents since November . <p> Vote Up00Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Start following the Torah <p> We have seen proof after proof of our blood spilled in the streets , shuls , schools , and homes . The Torah says if law violates the Torah do n't follow it . NY State violates the Constitutional right to use guns the Torah says if someone comes to kill you or do harm end their life first use no restraint . It 's not done for joy or want it 's done for survival . I do n't care about color or creed they come to kill or hurt us stop being passive sheep in a field being open season with a lazy shepherd <p> Vote Up6-4Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Protect ourselves <p> Every Jew needs to wear a gun like they wear Tzizis ! We must protect ourselves before the next ..... Wake up and smell the coffee ! anti-Semitism is growing and growing faster and faster . <p> Vote Up12-1Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Come to Israel <p> It is a sign to come to Israel . <p> Vote Up10-8Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Firearms training and carry permits now ! <p> Never again ! <p> Vote Up90Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Firearms training and carry permits now ! <p> Never again ! We all need to train in firearms and Sue for carry permits . Now . <p> Vote Up80Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Got ta add martual arts to ..... <p> All cheder yeshiva kollel and seminary class 's . Got ta get every adult a gun permit , got ta hold monthly meetings at the range . When faced with the prospect of war Avrahm Avinu first prayed to G-d readied himself for war , and stood at the gate of beersheva to pursue peace . Its the way of our fathers it should be our way too . <p> Vote Up20Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Thank " D Black CEO " for all this . <p> Thank D Black CEO for all this . <p> They should never have let that dog into 770 the other day , he has blood on his hands and would do the same as dickins did , get our knives and guns ready and fight back hard , we have plenty of bochurim who know just what to do , we just need " D black CEO " and all the liberal judges in NY to treat us with the same slap on the wrist as they do when the dog 's bite us . <p> Vote Up2-4Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> we need to get gun permites for shuls ! ! <p> what are we waiting for ? a worse attack c " v ? we need to wake up our leaders to demand guns and armed securety for our shuls ! it 's pikuach nefesh ! more then saying tehilim -- the hungeryan jews in the holocaust should have relized <p> Vote Up90Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Oy Vey <p> I 'm also going to assume the perpetrator is a Christian . <p> Vote Up0-12Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> I would assume it 's a crazy man <p> Of no particular religion <p> Vote Up9-1Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Time to get ready <p> The perpetrator is an antissemit and it does not matter if he is Christian , Budist , Atheist , Islamic . It is also not important black.or white , tall or short . He has to be caught and punished . And we must be able to defend ourselves . It is about time to become string and fight . The Macabim did it . Bar Cochba did it . Dvor ? did it . Let us follow their example . <p> Vote Up50Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> No Christian would do this <p> No Christian who truly loves HaShem would ever do this horror . True Christian Believers , like evangelicals are Israel 's and Jewish peoples ' greatest friends . I love HaShem and His children and Israel . Sha'alu Shalom Yerushalayim . <p> Vote Up7-1Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Emet4us <p> But why did he use a machete ? That is telling is n't it ? <p> Vote Up00Vote Down Reply <p> 1 day ago <p> Guest <p> religion ? <p> hate is hate i do n't care if he 's a Christian he attacked innocent Jews in a home/synagogue he should be tortured and thrown away for life <p> Vote Up00Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Bc religious contempt <p> is totally different when you do it . <p> Vote Up00Vote Down Reply <p> 1 day ago <p> Guest <p> we need to get gun permites for shuls ! ! <p> we must get armed ! -more then saying tehilim ! <p> Vote Up7-2Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> we need to get gun permites for shuls ! ! <p> ! <p> Vote Up60Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> We 'll ... <p> You do n't need one ! Look it up . You do n't need a permit to buy a rifle or shotgun in new York state . And a non carrying permit for a pistol is easy to get . Yes . It 's true . Your 18 year son or daughter can walk into a gun dealer in nys and buy an ar15 ( modified to nys standards ) . These are the facts . <p> Vote Up10Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> You 're right <p> In counties outside of NYC . In the city it is basically impossible , but upstate and long island it is doable . <p> Vote Up10Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Enough Already ? ? <p> JDL .... it is time resurrect yourself ! <p> Vote Up9-1Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> It 's time <p> We need a race war to settle our differences . This tension must erupt once and for all <p> Vote Up2-5Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Berel <p> this is not okay a majority of black goyim are as okay as any other goy if they were n't , then we could n't live in CH for a second like we ca n't live in gaza there is no need for a ' race ' war our job is to point out evil and of course not to be naive to evil that does exist within the black culture , but you are dangerously off of your rocker <p> Vote Up00Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> The US is imploding from political correctness <p> It 's not only the Jews that are suffering , if you keep up with the news , just that they are seen as easier victims . Until this country can look truth in the eye and notice who commits 90% of the crimes , there will be no change . <p> Vote Up9-1Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Every Jew a 22 <p> Every Jew a 22 <p> Vote Up4-1Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Pepper spray and krav maga <p> Al tismoch al hanes <p> Vote Up30Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Pepper spray and krav maga <p> At the very least . <p> Vote Up30Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Next time you see a Mike Bloomberg ad ... <p> demanding the disarmament of law-abiding citizens , while Black Israelite or Muslim butchers can get whatever they need to attack Jews -- think of this . <p> Vote Up6-1Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Ma Rabbi <p> When these perps are caught by our bochurim or shomrim instead of just handing them over to the police they should first beat them senseless then call the police to take them away . <p> Vote Up8-2Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Exactly <p> I do n't understand how the guy who came into 770 the other day was able to get out . They should have taken him into a corner with no security cameras and rearranged his face . <p> Vote Up40Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Bring " CHAPTZEM " back ! ! ! <p> Bring " CHAPTZEM " back ! ! ! <p> Vote Up60Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> We need spiritual and physical weapons <p> We must arm ourselves immediately with love and respect for each other , lots of judgments are brought for baseless hatred , lashon haro and condescension . Also we need to get basic training and purchase of firearms to defend ourselves and we need to VOTE and make our voice to be heard . <p> Vote Up2-2Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Rav Mier Kahane and the JDL <p> Reestablish the JDL of Rav Kahane to patrol ! We Jews must take responsibility for our own safety ! ! ! <p> Vote Up40Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Heshy <p> Does days are over . Today with all the security cameras u ca n't defend yourself or u also get arrested . One solution Dump all democrats . <p> Vote Up40Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Rav Mier Kahane and the JDL <p> We need the JDL to patrol ! ! <p> Vote Up30Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Think about it . <p> Just like it happened in butiful poway ... Pittsburgh ... it will happen in monsey , and it did ! So where next ? Chas vesholom in some beautiful shul somewhere ? Or who knows where . Act now and let 's protect ourselves and not wait until .... ( I 'm not going to mention .. ) . <p> Tayere Brider Ketz Sam lachoshech <p> Vote Up10Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Monsey <p> I live in Monsey . Absolutely loved loved loved living here . Am now seriously considering moving away . Just a matter of time . I 'm out . <p> Vote Up10Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Heshy <p> Where you moving to Brooklyn . <p> Vote Up00Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> You 're quite dumb <p> Where you gon na move to ? ? ? ? CROWN HIGHTS ? ? ? POWAY ? ? ? PITTSBURGH ? ? ? ? You get what I mean right ? I 'd still consider Monsey safer than most others places . <p> Upstate which is out of nyc limits it is a drop easier to get a gun license . What you wed is at least two people with guns in a big shul . What 's most amazing is that this is the second vicious attack in monsey where you do n't expect an attacker to drive to I doing their crime . They could easily find a closer shul near their area . This is a message from Above . It 's not a natural attack . It 's difficult to get a pistol license these days but a rifle should be far easier . Even mace could of stopped this ... Read more ? <p> Vote Up30Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Part of Upstate you got KKK <p> There 's a lot of white anti-Semitism in certain areas of upstate New York . I have been to places where people hide they are Jews they are that scared . <p> Vote Up10Vote Down Reply <p> 1 day ago <p> Guest <p> Such sad times <p> So sad that these crazy people are out there prayers fir the victim 's and their family 's , Just goes to show you these politicians that wan na take our guns are off their rockers , if someone in this get together had a concealed weapon they mite could have ended this idiots life before he hurts others . <p> Vote Up10Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Time to take action ! <p> Sheva mitzvot cards need to be given out by every one of us ! <p> Vote Up10Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Meanwhile , in the spiritual realm .... <p> The eternal fight between GOOD and EVIL rages on .... EVIL seems to be winning these days because he has successfully adopted the age old technique of " Divide and Conquer " . He has managed to pit the Muslims against Jews and Christians and vice versa . The Whites against Blacks and Browns and vice versa . The Democrats against Republicans and vice versa . The Orthodox Religious against the Non Believers and vice versa ..... EVIL , like the magician that he is , has tricked us into focusing on the insignificant differences between us , like race , religion , economic social class , geographic location .... and now he has us fighting HIS ... Read more ? <p> Vote Up00Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Heshy <p> I wonder if this stabbed was the same guy who did the stabbing a month ago in monsey . Police should look into that where he was that morning and also check his Facebook or online rantings . Maybe he used to work in monsey and got radicalized by the black Israelite gang . Anyway he will be out of jail January first as they are releasing all the prisoners other than murderers , rapists and men who had a domestic dispute with their wives . This is liberal democracy at its best . <p> Vote Up20Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> Black Anti-Semitism <p> Why do we liberal media sources only report the race of the perp in a suspected bias attack when the perp is white and not black ? I have seen the headlines " White cop shoots black male , white man shoots unarmed black male " but I have not seen " Black male attacks another Jew " After the Jersey city attacks on the Jewish deli by two black " Hebrew Israelites " , video on another website showed African-Americans blaming the Jewish victims for the problems they brought to the Jersey city neighborhood . Farrakhan and the black Hebrew Israelite " temples " preach the hate that manifests itself ... Read more ? <p> Vote Up10Vote Down Reply <p> 2 days ago <p> Guest <p> scared <p> a " homeless " man drove a car ? where did he get the money from ? ? ? ? ? if he s mentally ill he should be in a hospital , not on the streets . <h> The Official Chabad Lubavitch Phone Book <p> Presented by COLlive.com <p> Begin with <p> Gegent is a business and community directory created by COLLive to promote community businesses and help consumers find helpful and up-to-date information and reviews on shopping , products , vendors and services . 
