@@41529497 <h> Kashmir lockdown resembles siege of Gaza , says NGO <p> KUALA LUMPUR : The Malaysian Consultative Council of Islamic Organisation ( MAPIM ) has described the situation in Kashmir as resembling Israel 's siege of Gaza after the only majority Muslim territory in India was put on lockdown for more than 100 days ago . <p> The lockdown following the withdrawal of its special status has led to high number of lives lost and impacted critically the survival of the Kashmiri civilians , claimed MAPIM President , Mohd Azmi Abdul Hamid , in a statement today . <p> " The siege and lockdown must be ended.The Kashmiris must be given back their right to self determination as passed in in the United Nations Security Council Resolution 47 , " he added . <p> The resolution in April 1948 established a UN Commission to help the governments of India and Pakistan restore peace and order to the region and prepare for a plebiscite to decide the fate of Kashmir . <p> Following the withdrawal of Article 370 recently that ended Kashmir 's special status , eight million Kashmiris are under lockdown by almost one million Indian troops . <p> Jammu Kashmir is currently the most militarized zone in the world . <p> Azmi lamented Kashmir 's situation where there is no movement , no access , no communication , while there 's also allegations about abduction , rape and denial to pray in the mosque . <p> " The world is witnessing not only a lockdown in Kashmir but a brutal crackdown even towards children under the name of terrorism . Children blinded and abducted is rampant . <p> " Schools are non functioning . Children are traumatized to go to school due to the prevailing tension . <p> " Missing persons and forced disappearance are prevalent . The numbers are growing by the day . Indian troops have targeted vulnerable groups to a level of barbarity of the highest order , " said Azmi . <p> Commenting on Gaza , said to be the biggest open prison of about two million people , the situation is also critical , he added . <p> The main threat is from israel 's intermittent air strikes which resulted in deaths that 's akin to massacres and the blocking of all access whether land , sea and air to the strip . <p> " Gazans are suffering from the destruction of public amenities : schools , hospitals , sanitation , electricity , water and housing . The result is disastrous . Unemployment is extremely high , " stressed Azmi . <p> MAPIM , therefore , urged the world community to delay no more on Kashmir 's lock down and at the same time stop the siege on Gaza with the rights of the Palestinians respected . <p> " We regret the lackadaisical action on the part of international agencies thus resulting in worsening situation in both Kashmir and Gaza . <p> " We call OIC to assert its pressure to protect the oppressed people . <p> " Those responsible for the the acts of violence on the Kashmir and Gaza civilians must be brought to face the law and the sufferings of the victims must be compensated , " said Azmi. 
@@41538287 <h> Suaram - 30 years of defending human rights in M'sia <p> COMMENT Suaram was born under the shadow of the ISA . Detention-without-trial has been the favourite tool of repression used by the Malaysian state to arrest and detain persons indefinitely without trial ever since its legislation in 1960 . Under the rule of Prime Minister Dr Mahathir Mohamad from 1981 , authoritarian measures have included detention without trial , restrictions on the mass media , the assault on the judiciary in 1988 , and the centralisation of power in the executive . " Operation Lalang " in October 1987 produced an unprecedented coalition of democratic forces that emerged to fight for the release of the detainees . It also ignited a new effort among families of the detainees and their support group to provide support for the detainees as well as to campaign for their release . The comradeship among the families and their supporters among the NGOs was crucial in sustaining the anti-ISA campaign . The legacy of this support group and its working method provided the motivating force for the formation of Suaram in 1989 . <p> We believe that to make democracy work , we have to actively step up the demands from outside Putrajaya and Parliament ; to empower citizens through the process of participation , realising our rights through direct action and solidarity with other progressive organisations . True democracy involves more than just periodic elections . It is about rebuilding society by developing basic values of autonomy , solidarity and responsibility for life and for future generations . Our commitment to sustainable development goes beyond pious hopes that greedy developers and the state will initiate mitigative measures to unsustainable projects as was seen in the Bakun and the Sungai Selangor dams , land reclamations and deforestation for plantations . The practice of real democracy involves full citizens ' participation , including mobilising opposition to all forms of environmental destruction . <p> Suaram actively intervenes to support victims and their families when their basic rights have been violated in such cases of arbitrary arrest and detention , forced evictions and abuse of police powers . While victims of state oppression and police abuse include the broad masses in Malaysia , marginalised communities such as the urban poor , estate workers and indigenous people tend to bear the brunt of human rights violations . Suaram releases " urgent appeals " during such exigencies ; coordinates " urgent arrest teams " to monitor and assist those who have been arrested during peaceful assemblies ; arranges legal assistance , media publicity and referral services . <p> Suaram records all abuses of human rights through networking with other NGOs . We specialise in documenting violations of civil and political rights . These documents are published in periodic updates on our website . The monitoring and documentation found in Suaram 's publications are important contributions to human rights education and awareness in Malaysia . Today , Suaram is still the only human rights organisation in Malaysia that publishes a comprehensive human rights report every year without fail . The annual Suaram Malaysian Human Rights Report is both detailed and non-partisan and keenly awaited every year by local as well as foreign human rights watchers . This is remarkable considering we are a non-governmental organisation employing just a handful of young activists and operating on a shoestring budget . Every year since 1999 , in commemorating International Human Rights Day , the Suaram Human Rights Award is given to the community or group ( not individual ) that has exhibited outstanding courage and solidarity in defending or promoting human rights and also empowered their community in the process . <p> Despite the lack of funds for a coordinator to handle this " Green Desk " , Suaram managed to respond to urgent appeals on environmental issues such as the Bakun dam , the Selangor dam and the destruction of the Bukit Sungai Putih permanent forest and wildlife reserve . Suaram spoke out against the Bakun dam at the World Commission on Dams conference at Hanoi in March 2000 as well as the regional meeting on river management in Thailand in August 2000 . Suaram with other NGOs also organised the " People before Profits ( PBP ) " conference in Kuala Lumpur in November 2000 to raise awareness about sustainable development , environmental protection and the rights of communities in development . The conference brought together communities affected by so-called " development projects " and developed a consensus and common platform against unsustainable and exploitative development . <p> To date , Suaram has facilitated some important consultations including , the Malaysian Charter on Human Rights in 1994 ; the Malaysian Human Rights Report in 1998 ; the Peoples Tribunal against Police Brutality and the Second Asia-Pacific Conference on East Timor in 1996 ; the National Human Rights Commission as well as the Peoples ' Democratic Front ( Gagasan Demokrasi Rakyat ) in 1998 . Other initiatives include the May 1 coalition and many other campaigns to bring together NGOs on fundamental human rights issues . This concept of coalition-building that has been one of the core working methodologies of Suaram since its inception has been adopted by many civil society groups on various issues , including the Article 11 coalition , the Coalition Against Water Privatisation , the protest against the fuel price hike , the Free Trade Agreement , local councils non-accountability , the Anti-War Coalition , Freedom of Information , the Bersih Committee on Electoral Reform , etc . The massive demonstration against the ISA by the Anti-ISA Movement ( coordinated by Suaram ) on Aug 1 , 2009 , was a further testament to the success of years of campaigning by Suaram against this obnoxious law . <p> Suaram believes in international solidarity and actively supports democracy and human rights movements in Southeast Asia and elsewhere in the world . Ultimately , supra-national pressure is necessary to force national governments to adhere to international human rights standards . To date , the Malaysian government has still not ratified many of the UN covenants , conventions and protocols . Suaram was a founding member of Forum-Asia , the Asian Forum for Human Rights and Development in 1993 . We helped to organise the Second ( and last ) Asia Pacific Conference on East Timor in 1996 before its final liberation from Indonesia . When the conference was disrupted by a mob from the ruling BN coalition , more than half of Suaram 's secretariat and staff were among those arrested and detained in the police action . In September 1999 , a regional coalition called Solidarity Campaign for Human Rights in Acheh was formed and Suaram was elected into the executive committee of the coalition . Suaram is staunchly anti-imperialist . During the US-led occupation of Iraq and Afghanistan and the Israeli atrocities in Gaza , Suaram was part of the " Stop the War Coalition " and participated in the protests against the US-led war . <p> In 2012 , Suaram began to face an unprecedented barrage of intimidation and harassment from the government and its agencies as a result of the Scorpene public inquiry in France arising from Suaram 's complaint over suspected corruption in the purchase of the submarines in a Paris court . The government-controlled mainstream newspapers , News Straits Times , Berita Harian and Utusan Malaysia joined in this government chorus , accusing Suaram and other organisations including Bersih 2.0 , Malaysiakini and Centre for Independent Journalism of being involved in a " Zionist plot to destabilise the government " . After seven months of wasting Suaram 's time and taxpayers ' money , the taskforce produced nothing . On Jan 4 , Suaram applied for a judicial review of the authority of the Registrar of Societies , pointing out that the ROS had no statutory authority over Suaram which is registered under the Companies Act 1950 . <p> Then on Feb 28 , the Attorney-General 's Chambers told Suaram that " no further action " was planned . The ROS wrote to Suaram on March 6 , withdrawing all its pending notices against Suaram . On Nov 13 , 2013 , Suaram was finally vindicated when the New Straits Times ( NST ) was forced to make a half-page apology on page three of its newspaper to Suaram , Bersih 2.0 , Centre for Independent Journalism , and the Merdeka Centre . The NST admitted that its claims were " false and without foundation " , the NST had " no proof whatsoever to substantiate any of the allegations " , and that " the article ought not to have been published " . Furthermore , the NST had to pay the legal costs of the lawsuit . <p> In 2011 , the draconian ISA as well as the Emergency Ordinance ( Public Order and Prevention of Crime ) which allow for preventive detention were repealed . Suaram considers this a major milestone for its work as well as the work of its partner organisations in the Anti-ISA Coalition . To date , Suaram remains the only local NGO that systematically documents and publishes the current state of human rights in Malaysia through its annual human rights reports . This annual report has been published since 1998 and remains one of the key documents that is used by individuals , organisations and the diplomatic community to understand the human rights situation in Malaysia . We continue to defend Malaysians ' freedom of expression , the right to trial and to check abuses of power by the police and enforcement agencies . Suaram also contributes to research and publications on important Malaysian public policies and peoples ' history through the years , notably on arms spending and energy policies ; racism and racial discrimination in Malaysia ; May 13 and the Kampung Medan pogroms ; the independence movement ; People Before Profits ; policing the Malaysian police ; the ISA and " Operation Lalang " and Malaysian civil society demands for successive general elections . <p> Human rights work involves a commitment that has sustained Suaram these thirty years with its activists , volunteers and supporters . Many of Suaram 's activists have been arrested at some point or other for standing up for our basic human rights and some have also been detained without trial . Through the years , we have made it a policy to train young activists to become human rights defenders . Suaram is strictly a non-partisan organisation . We do not hesitate in condemning all violations of human rights and social justice by the federal and state governments , whichever party is the transgressor . <p> As testimony to this commitment , we are now consulted by both local and international news agencies regarding current affairs , human rights and environmental issues in Malaysia . In its thirty years of existence , we believe Suaram has made a big difference to Malaysian society . With the continued support of human rights defenders , we will endeavour to reclaim our rights , to strengthen all these areas of human rights work , to broaden human rights education among Malaysians and to meet the challenges of rapidly changing political and economic developments in Malaysia , the region and the rest of the world . <p> KUA KIA SOONG is Suaram adviser . The above was his speech at the 30th-anniversary function of the human rights watchdog NGO in Kuala Lumpur yesterday . <p> The views expressed here are those of the author/contributor and do not necessarily represent the views of Malaysiakini. 
@@41557886 <h> Side by side , glimpses of Palestinian refugee camps then and now <p> FILE PHOTO : A combination picture shows Palestinian boys posing for a photo in Aida refugee camp in Bethlehem in the Israeli-occupied West Bank , in this undated handout photo . UNRWA/Handout via REUTERS ( L ) and Palestinian boys posing for a photo in front of a section of the Israeli barrier in Aida refugee camp in Bethlehem in the Israeli-occupied West Bank , October 19 , 2019 . REUTERS/Mussa Qawasma <p> JERUSALEM ( Reuters ) - History has marched on since they arrived in the middle of the last century , seeking refuge for what they thought would be a few weeks , but staying for a lifetime . <p> Around them the Middle East lurched from conflict to civil war to peace and back again . But for Palestinian refugees in these camps , there has been little movement over decades - only their memories and hopes can travel freely back to lost lands . <p> Visited by photographers decades apart , time seems to have passed at a different speed in many of the Palestinian refugee camps scattered across Lebanon , Jordan , Syria , the West Bank , East Jerusalem and Gaza . <p> Change there has been , but limited in its ambition . Canvas tents in 1948 Beirut grew up to be cinder block homes . Beaches evolved into sunless alleyways . <p> And young women balancing clay water pots on their heads in 1950s Gaza became the grandmothers of a generation who today have taps in their homes but still haul bottled water home because it is filtered , and so safer to drink . <p> A key presence in these lives is UNRWA , the United Nations agency which provides services and protection to 5.5 million Palestinian refugees . Around a third -- more than 1.5 million - live in 58 registered camps . <p> The United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East -- its full name - was created by the U.N . General Assembly 70 years ago to deal with the hundreds of thousands of Palestinian refugees who had been driven from their homes or fled the conflict surrounding the birth of the modern state of Israel in 1948 . <p> One of the descendants of that exodus - Najah Abu Reyala - has lived all her life in Beach Camp , the third largest of eight refugee camps in coastal Gaza . <p> Now 61 , she remembers the rudimentary conditions during her youth in the camp , where the population has grown from 23,000 to more than 85,000 . <p> " Streets were not paved , they were sandy and dusty , " she recalls . But although the passing of the years brought more services , it also brought more tension , divisions and despair . <p> " Maybe they put electricity and water inside the houses , but things are far worse than they used to be , " she said . " Back then , we were more closely knit , we were more united . " <p> Abu Reyala and other refugees want the right to return to their families ' former lands in pre-1948 Palestine , lands which now lie inside Israel . Israel has rejected any such right of return as a demographic threat to its Jewish majority . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has said that UNRWA 's longevity had served to perpetuate , not solve , the refugee problem . " It is time ( for ) UNRWA ( to ) be dismantled , " he said in 2017 , urging the U.N . to " re-examine " its existence . <p> Just such a re-examination is due in the coming days , with the U.N . General Assembly to vote on renewing UNRWA 's mandate . <p> Amid financial crisis and political uncertainty , Palestinian leaders warned of unrest if services were to vanish . <p> But in November 170 countries voted in committee for UNRWA 's mandate renewal ahead of the main assembly . Only two - Israel and the United States - voted against . <p> Although nothing is certain in Middle East politics , such an overwhelming majority is unlikely to be overturned in the final vote , the agency 's supporters say , with no easy alternative available . <p> " UNRWA 'S detractors want a solution to the refugee problem without a political agreement , " said Elizabeth Campbell , an UNRWA official in Washington . <p> " And that 's a very difficult thing to achieve . " <p> ( Reporting by Stephen Farrell with additional reporting by Nidal al-Mughrabi in Gaza ; Editing by Mark Heinrich ) <p> We 're sorry , this article is unavailable at the moment . If you wish to read this article , kindly contact our Customer Service team at 1-300-88-7827 . Thank you for your patience - we 're bringing you a new and improved experience soon ! 
@@41587051 <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu lights a Hanukkah candle alongside the Rabbi of the Western Wall Shmuel Rabinovitch ( left ) and US ambassador to Israel David Friedman at the Western Wall , Judaism 's holiest prayer site , in the Old City of Jerusalem on December 22 , 2019. -AFP <p> JERUSALEM : Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu accused the International Criminal Court of anti-Semitism on Sunday over its chief prosecutor 's plan to pursue a war crimes probe in the Palestinian Territories . <p> The right-wing leader , who is fighting for his political life in a March election , made the allegation with Judaism 's holy Western Wall as a backdrop during a candle-lighting ceremony marking the start of the eight-day Hanukkah holiday . <p> " New edicts are being cast against the Jewish people - anti-Semitic edicts by the International Criminal Court telling us that we , the Jews standing here next to this wall ... in this city , in this country , have no right to live here and that by doing so , we are committing a war crime , " he said . <p> " Pure anti-Semitism , " Netanyahu said , raising an argument likely to strike a chord with many Israelis who believe that criticism , especially in Europe , of Israeli policies towards the Palestinians has its roots in anti-Jewish sentiment . <p> The Hague-based International Criminal Court 's chief prosecutor , Fatou Bensouda , said on Friday she would launch a full investigation into alleged war crimes in the West Bank , including East Jerusalem , and the Gaza Strip as soon as the court 's jurisdiction had been established . <p> Israel captured those areas in the 1967 Middle East war and withdrew troops and settlers from the Gaza Strip in 2005 . <p> Bensouda 's announcement opens the possibility of charges being filed against Israelis or Palestinians . Israeli media , however , largely portrayed it as a bid to subject Israeli leaders and military officers to arrest and trial if they travel overseas . <p> Netanyahu 's accusations appeared to be centred on a scenario in which Israeli settlement activities in the West Bank and East Jerusalem , where the Western Wall stands within the walled Old City , could be viewed by the court as war crimes . <p> ICC prosecutors have said a preliminary investigation on the West Bank focused on " reported settlement-related activities engaged in by Israeli authorities " . <p> The Palestinians and many countries consider the settlements to be illegal . Israel disputes this , citing security needs and biblical and historical connections to the land . <p> The Palestinians have welcomed Bensouda 's decision . <p> Netanyahu said on Friday the ICC had no jurisdiction to investigate events in the Palestinian Territories , arguing it could only examine petitions submitted by a sovereign state . <p> The ICC has the authority to hear cases of war crimes , genocide and crimes against humanity committed on the territory of the 123 countries that have signed up to it . <p> Israel has not joined the court but the Palestinian Authority , which exercises limited self-rule in the occupied West Bank , has done so . The Gaza Strip is run by the PA 's rival , the Islamist Hamas group . -- Reuters 
@@41601005 <h> Palestinian militants agree truce after exchange of fire with Israel <p> Iron Dome anti-missile system fires interception missiles as rockets are launched from Gaza towards Israel as seen from the city of Ashkelon , Israel October 27 , 2018 . Picture taken with long exposure . REUTERS/Amir Cohen TPX IMAGES OF THE DAY <p> GAZA/JERUSALEM ( Reuters ) - The Israeli frontier with Gaza fell silent on Saturday under what Palestinians described as an Egyptian-mediated truce , after Israel responded to the biggest salvo of Palestinian rockets for months with scores of air strikes on Gaza targets . <p> The Palestinian Islamic Jihad , one of the armed groups operating in Gaza , said it fired the rockets in retaliation for Israel 's killing of four Palestinians at a border demonstration on Friday . Israel said its air force hit more than 80 targets in response to about 40 Gaza rockets launched into Israel . <p> There were no immediate reports of deaths on Saturday from either the rockets or the retaliatory strikes . <p> " After contacts between the Islamic Jihad leadership and the brothers in Egypt it was agreed that a comprehensive ceasefire will begin immediately , " Islamic Jihad spokesman Daoud Shehab said . " The Islamic Jihad will abide by the ceasefire if the occupation ( Israel ) does the same . " <p> An Israeli military spokeswoman declined to comment on Shehab 's remarks . By nightfall on Saturday violence had abated , with no further reports of Palestinian rocket launches or Israeli air strikes in Gaza . <p> Egyptian security officials have been talking separately to Israeli and Palestinian leaders in an attempt to restore calm along the border . <p> IRAN <p> The four Palestinians were killed on Friday during protests at the frontier between Israel and Gaza , held since March 30 against Israel 's blockade of the territory and in support of a right for Palestinian refugees to return to homes in Israel . <p> According to the Palestinian Health Ministry , 213 Gazans have been killed by Israeli forces during the protests . One Israeli soldier has been killed by a Palestinian sniper . <p> Israel said its forces had been attacked with explosive devices and that some demonstrators breached the border . <p> Israeli military spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Jonathan Conricus said Syria and Iran were involved in the rocket attacks . <p> " Orders and incentives were given from Damascus with a clear involvement of the Iranian Revolutionary Guards al-Quds force , " Conricus told reporters . " Our response is not limited geographically . " <p> Israel regularly accuses Iran of aiding Gaza militants , but rarely levels the charge in connection with a specific rocket attack . It has struck scores of times inside Syria during the seven-year civil war there , at what it has said were Iranian targets or Teheran 's transfers of weapons to Hezbollah fighters . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu made a rare visit to Oman on Friday . Israel and some Gulf states share an interest in curbing Iran 's influence in the region . <p> Shehab dismissed the allegation of foreign involvement as " an Israeli attempt to evade its responsibility " for the border deaths . <p> The Israeli military said it holds Hamas , a Palestinian militant group that has controlled Gaza since 2007 , accountable for all events there . Israel and Hamas have fought three wars since Hamas took power in Gaza . <p> About two million Palestinians are packed into the Gaza Strip , mainly stateless descendants of refugees who fled or were driven from homes in Israel when it was founded in 1948 . Gaza is in a deep economic crisis as a result of an Israeli naval blockade and tight Israeli and Egyptian control of its land crossings , which Israel says it maintains for security reasons . <p> ( Writing by Maayan Lubell ; Editing by John Stonestreet and Peter Graff ) <p> We 're sorry , this article is unavailable at the moment . If you wish to read this article , kindly contact our Customer Service team at 1-300-88-7827 . Thank you for your patience - we 're bringing you a new and improved experience soon ! 
