@@31488537 <h> In 2014 , Suleiman also made a comment on social media alluding to the antisemitic idea that Israel controls American foreign policy , claiming that it is the " 51st state . " <p> Imam Omar Suleiman addresses the House of Representatives on Thursday . <p> ( photo credit : SCREENSHOT/YOU TUBE ) <p> Popular American Imam Omar Suleiman , known for his Israel-bashing antics , gave the Ramadan invocation at the opening of Thursday 's House of Representatives session . <p> Suleiman is the founder and president of the Irving , Texas-based Yaqeen Institute for Islamic Research . He was invited to give Thursday 's invocation by US Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson ( D-Texas ) , a Yaqeen Institute statement said . <p> The information was originally revealed and reported by the Investigative Project on Terrorism . <p> " We pray for peace , not war , " he said . " Love not hate . Benevolence , not greed . Unity , not division . And we commit ourselves to not betraying our prayers with actions that contradict them . Let us be for truth , no matter who , or for is against it . " Suleiman has made several vehemently anti-Israel comments and also seemed to side with Hamas in an August 2014 Facebook post . <p> As the 2014 Gaza War broke out , Suleiman said on social media : " How befitting that the 3rd Intifada starts on the 27th night of Ramadan as worshippers are denied prayer in Masjid Al Aqsa . " He ended his post with a prayer of sorts : " God willing on this blessed night as the 3rd Intifada begins , the beginning of the end of Zionism is here . May Allah help us overcome this monster , protect the innocent of the world , and accept the murdered as martyrs . ameen . " <p> During the war , Suleiman also denied that Hamas uses human shields in an attempt to stop the IDF from retaliating against rocket fire sent from Gaza into Israeli civilian communities . <p> " If Hamas was using human shields , would n't the Palestinians say something about it ? " he wrote . " Surprise , surprise : apparently the IDF was guilty even as they tried to convince the world that the reason why they could n't stop massacring civilians was because of the use of human shields . This is disgusting ... #FreePalestine #ICC4Israel " <p> Also in 2014 , Suleiman also made a comment on social media alluding to the antisemitic idea that Israel controls American foreign policy , claiming that it is the " 51st state . <p> In 2017 , he also addressed a rally protesting the US Embassy move to Jerusalem was organized by American Muslims for Palestine ( AMP ) , a group which seeks " to challenge the legitimacy of the State of Israel . " He denied the Jewish claim to Jerusalem while speaking at the event . <p> " Your recognition means nothing to us , " he said . " Your maps mean nothing to us , your embassy is as illegitimate as the occupation it seeks to legitimize . Our land is our land , our dignity is our dignity . <p> He has also openly supported the Boycott , Divestment and Sanctions movement , as well as Congresswomen Ilhan Omar and Rashida Tlaib , and Women 's March founder Linda Sarsour - all who have shared vehemently anti-Israel sentiments . <p> In a 2018 blog post advocating for AMP , Suleiman said that the tide in the fight for Palestinians " is turning . " " There is no longer one side dominating the political discourse in America , " he said . " In the last month referring to December , we heard from newly-elected congresswomen Ilhan Omar and Rashida Tlaib openly express their support for BDS and Palestinian rights . " <p> " I ca n't stress to you enough how essential it is to invest in Palestine advocacy work , " he wrote . " We need to organize at the legislative level to shift US policy toward one of justice and equality for Palestinians . " <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31488538 <p> In light of last summer 's Gaza war and the growing need for advanced armored personnel carriers , Israel has signed a $310 million contract with US firm General Dynamics for the production of additional Namer APCs . <p> The platforms will come with Rafael Advanced Defense Systems ' Trophy active protection system on board , offering defenses against shoulder-held missile and mortar attacks , common in combat in the Gaza Strip and southern Lebanon . <p> A Defense Ministry delegation in the US signed an agreement with General Dynamics for the purchases of frames and systems to manufacture Namer vehicles , the ministry announced on Tuesday . <p> The systems will arrive over the next six years . The contract comes after an earlier deal with the American company to produce Namer engines , worth $250m . <p> " The Namer is considered to be the most protected armored combat vehicle in the world , which proved its abilities during fighting in Operation Protective Edge in Gaza last year against many threats , " the Defense Ministry said . <p> The vehicle saved the lives of many soldiers who were inside them during attacks , it added . <p> All of the new Namers will be equipped with the Trophy system , which " scored big successes in defending Merkava tanks during Operation Protective Edge , " the ministry said . Trophy will provide significant protection to every APC that gets it , it added . <p> The Namer 's frame will be purchased in the US with American military aid money , while kits and systems will be manufactured in dozens of Israeli factories . <p> The final assembly will take place at the IDF 's Renovation and Maintenance Center at the Tel Hashomer military complex . <p> Some 200 factories in Israel , many of them in the periphery , employing some 10,000 people , are taking part in the production of the Merkava 4 tanks and Namer APCs . <p> More than 90 percent of the Merkava 4 components are produced by Israeli defense industries . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31488539 <h> ' March of Return ' puts Palestinians back in the spotlight <h> It 's not yet clear if the activists involved in the protests can sustain the momentum . <p> For several days the " Great March of Return " succeeded in putting the Palestinian struggle back at the center stage of world concern . With sixteen killed and more than 1,000 wounded out of 17,000 protesters who sought to march on Israel 's Gaza border Friday , the activists made headlines around the world . <p> But they paid a heavy price in death and wounded . <p> The full reverberations of the effort is not yet known and it is not clear if the activists , many of them connected to the Hamas movement , can sustain the momentum . They claim it was the start of six weeks of protests but images published on Palestinian Quds Network media on Monday showed one of the large protest camps already being cleaned up near Khan Yunis . <p> A look at some of the global coverage gives an indication of how the march was reported . <p> The Washington Post ran several stories , one analysis piece claimed that " for Israel , there 's little political cost to killing Palestinians . " The New York Times highlighted how the battle was waged on social media and that the violence was fading away . CNN 's coverage , with Ian Lee reporting from Gaza , also sought to highlight how this was like " so many battles of yesteryear . " <p> In the UK , The Guardian also ran three stories about the protests , focusing on the 773 Palestinians allegedly shot with " live ammunition " and pondering if the march would lead to a wider conflict . <p> The Telegraph focused on whether one of the protesters who was wounded was a " Hamas fighter or unarmed protester " and also looked at whether there would be an inquiry into the deaths . In Germany , Deutsche Welle concentrated on UN calls for restraint while Russia Today in Moscow also highlighted the UN aspect . <p> It 's hard to gauge but it appears the overall coverage was not particularly critical of Israel . There was a sense of routine and almost boredom about it . This is n't because other Middle Eastern stories eclipsed the Friday march and killings . The Egyptian presidential election was also greeted with a snooze internationally . Momentous events in Syria with rebels being evacuated from areas they held near Damascus after six years was greeted with a shrug . ISIS attacks in Iraq ? Not of interest . In Kashmir , twenty were killed in battles between the Indian security forces and extremists . <p> The Palestinian mass march was supposed to highlight several issues . The main idea is to draw attention to the " right of return " as Palestinians approach 70 years since the " Nakba , " or catastrophe , which many see as the founding of Israel in 1948 . Hamas also wants to use the march to remain relevant . However , it cleverly sought to distance itself from overt participation so that the march would seem like a populist event . <p> The Gaza Strip has real population pressures with almost two million residents living in a small area of land under a kind of blockade by Israel and Egypt . Hamas was unsuccessful at galvanizing any kind of march in the West Bank , so it 's success was only in Gaza . <p> The feeling in media coverage is that most people realize there will never be a " return " and that legitimizing this demand is not worthwhile . <p> The march was not successful at really focusing any light on the problems in Gaza or what people demand . <p> The Palestinians also had difficulty pushing the narrative that the march was peaceful . Although activists said that they were against stone throwing , tire burning and other violence , Israel seems to have at least encouraged coverage to cast doubt on whether the protest was peaceful . <p> That the Gaza protests , so far , did not result in a larger conflagration is evidence of the continued divisions in Palestinian society ; between Gaza , the West Bank , Jerusalem , Israel and the Palestinian diaspora . <p> As with clashes in the last year , such as the metal detectors in Jerusalem or the US Embassy move , the Gaza march shows that although the Palestinian cause can gain the attention , it does n't appear to gain the traction it once did in the 1990s and early 2000s . <p> var cont = Sign up for The Jerusalem Post Premium Plus for just $5Upgrade your reading experience with an ad-free environment and exclusive content <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31488645 <h> " I am not used to receiving lectures about morality from the leader who bombs Kurdish villagers in his native Turkey , who jails journalists , who helps Iran go around international sanctions ... " <p> Israel will not be lectured to by a leader who bombs his own people , jails journalists and helps Iran and Hamas , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said in a sharp rebuttal to the most recent anti-Israel tirade by Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan . <p> Erdogan -- who is emerging as one of the main voices in the Islamic world trying to stir passions over US President Donald Trump 's recognition of Jerusalem as Israel 's capital -- on Sunday called Israel a " terrorist state . " <p> According to the Hurriyet Daily News website , Erdogan , speaking at a meeting of his AKP Party in the central Anatolian province of Sivas , charged Israel with using " disproportionate " force against Palestinians protesting Trump 's declaration and declared Israel an " oppressive , occupation state . " <p> Asked about Erdogan 's verbal attack , Netanyahu replied , " I am not used to receiving lectures about morality from the leader who bombs Kurdish villagers in his native Turkey , who jails journalists , who helps Iran go around international sanctions , and who helps terrorists , including in Gaza , kill innocent people . That is not the man who is going to lecture us . " <p> His comments hit a nerve , as Erdogan 's spokesman Ibrahim Kalin issued a statement condemning Netanyahu 's remarks and said : " It is not possible to take seriously the allegations and accusations made by a mentality , which massacred thousands of Palestinians , turned the lands of the Palestinians into an open-air prison , in order to suppress its guilt . " <p> Kalin , using the Arabic name for Jerusalem , said that those who think they will make Al-Quds the " capital of the occupying state are wasting their time . " <p> Erdogan called for an emergency meeting of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation ( OIC ) in Istanbul on Wednesday to discuss the Jerusalem issue . <p> Erdogan has publicly commented on the issue almost every day for over a week . A Turkish presidential source on Saturday said that Erdogan -- who last week threatened to cut off ties with Israel over the move -- spoke with Macron and " agreed to continue efforts to convince the US to reconsider its decision . " <p> Russian President Vladimir Putin is scheduled to meet with Erdogan in Turkey on Monday , and Erdogan is expected to raise the issue with him as well . <p> On Saturday , the Turkish president slammed Trump , with Hurriyet quoting him as saying , " Leading the world is not so easy . Being strong does not give you this right . " Israel , he said during an address to the Turkish Exporters ' Assembly , " is an occupying state and their police are shooting youths and children ... They are striking Gaza with their F-16s . " <p> During that speech , he stressed the importance of Turkey 's stability for the Muslim world . " If Turkey is weakened , Palestine , Jerusalem , Syria and Iraq will all lose hope , " he said . <p> Erdogan 's rhetoric is trickling down . Hurriyet reported that the Turkish Football Federation requested all clubs playing in the Super League , 1st League , 2nd League and 3rd League to open Jerusalem banners while coming onto the field at the beginning of their matches this week . <p> On Saturday , players on the Galatasaray and Akhisarspor Turkish football teams , held up a banner before their game that read , " Jerusalem is our red line . " According to Hurriyet , banners among the fans in the stands read , " If Jerusalem is not free , the world remains captive . " <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31494241 <h> A decade of attrition <p> Bush Junior seems set to seek the completion of a deadly task that Bush Senior started off in Iraq in January 1991 . <p> EVEN accepting monotonic ideological uniformity as a given in American politics , there was something curious about the manner in which the candidates in the recent presidential elections sought to outbid each other in their belligerence towards Iraq . As George W. Bush ascends to the office that was held by his father , now remembered for little other than planning , leading and delighting in , a war of destruction against Iraq , he is learnt to be making ambitious plans to complete a job that has remained u nfinished since then . Ten years after the Gulf war , the son prepares to revisit the terrain that his father laid waste to . The people of Iraq , who have seen their country besieged , bludgeoned and vivisected over the last decade , may well wonder what is t he worst he can do . The office that Bush holds is now routinely described as the most powerful in the world , a characterisation that originates in part in the impunity with which his father pursued a war against Iraq without any of the encumbrances of pu blic scrutiny . The son , though , is unlikely to enjoy the unique advantages of the father . <p> Ten days prior to taking office , George W. Bush met the U.S. military 's top strategists and commanders for a briefing on global trouble spots where potential eruptions could threaten American interests , necessitating the despatch of troops . It was report ed on the basis of high-level leaks that over half the 75-minute meeting was devoted to a discussion of Iraq . All through his election campaign Bush had talked insistently , though without great coherence , about strengthening sanctions against Iraq and pr oviding the opponents of Iraqi President Saddam Hussein with the military and logistical means to effect a change of regime . He was careful of course never to go into specific details , or to engage with the awkward fact that the Clinton administration 's policy towards Iraq has been premised upon precisely these principles . <p> The new U.S. Secretary of State , Colin Powell - again a Bush family inheritance from the days of the Gulf war - reserved some of his bluntest words for Iraq at his first interaction with the media since earning his nomination : " Saddam Hussein is sitting on a failed regime that is not going to be around in a few years ' time . We are in the strong position , he is in the weak position . We will work with our allies to re-energise the sanctions ( against Iraq ) . " <p> EXPECTEDLY , the Iraqi response to the most recent verbal provocations has been bold . The official Iraqi media described Powell as a " war criminal " and his remarks were dismissed as irrelevant : " The choice of Colin Powell , an arrogant military man who und erstands nothing of how to manage political affairs , proves that the new U.S. administration has nothing new to offer , except for continued aggression against the will of independent peoples . " <p> Over the preceding month , Iraq had made a forceful effort to break out of the economic isolation it has suffered since the August 1990 invasion of Kuwait . High-level diplomatic exchanges took place with Syria , Russia , China and India late in November . Du ring a visit to New Delhi Iraqi Vice-President Taha Yassin Ramadan offered a bilateral package of swapping oil for food , pricing oil at a level that India , with its balance of payments under pressure , should have found attractive . Similar deals were also pursued separately with other buyers of Iraqi oil . In most instances Iraq offered an attractive rebate on the price of oil , on condition that a surcharge of 50 cents a barrel be paid by the buyer into an account controlled by the Iraqi government . <p> These proposals failed to gain approval from the U.N . Sanctions Committee which oversees all Iraqi trade transactions . Revenues from the sale of oil continue to be deposited in an escrow account controlled by this agency , which makes out payments to supp liers of material ordered by the Iraqi government . Every transaction is closely scrutinised , with the United States and the United Kingdom being particularly diligent in blocking the purchase of such items as food testing equipment , water treatment plant s and essential medical material . <p> Confronted with another rejection , the Iraqi regime briefly cut off the flow of oil from their fields . Over the last year , the country 's daily output has increased to 2.3 million barrels a day , about 5 per cent of the total global trade . A choking off of this would have meant a potential spiral in world prices , with rather grim consequences . But the U.S. quickly made it known that it would fight off any Iraqi curtailment by dipping into its own strategic petroleum reserves and the loyal Saudi Arabian re gime also indicated that it would increase production . Oil prices were contained and Iraq resumed exports by mid-December . But while the stalemate persisted , Saddam Hussein made the rather grandiose donation of the equivalent of euros 100 million for the poor in the U.S. <p> This was of course a gesture in keeping with Iraq 's record of seeking to turn grim adversity into moral advantage . But the U.S. State Department was sufficiently piqued to respond with a highly personalised attack on the leadership of the Iraqi President . There are indications , though , that the U.S. is increasingly worried over the leverage that Iraq has obtained in regional affairs , especially with the " peace process " between Palestine and Israel now lying in tatters . <p> Late in November , Iraq sought with some success to put itself in the forefront of the struggle for Palestinian rights . In a formal representation to U.N . Secretary-General Kofi Annan , Foreign Minister Mohammed Sayeed al-Sahaf urged that a part of the rev enues earned from Iraqi oil sales be allocated to the Palestinians . This decision had been taken , Sahaf told Annan , because the Palestinians deserved the full support of the Arab nations in their struggle against " the criminal Zionist acts against them " . The text of the letter , which was published by the official Iraqi media , read in part as follows : " The government of Iraq asks you officially to allocate a share of the memorandum of understanding of 20/5/1996 between Iraq and the U.N . to the people of Palestine to support its national stand . A share of Iraqi funds is a legitimate right of the Palestinians to support their defence of their land in accordance with the U.N . charter . " <p> In the midst of the Palestinian uprising against decades of occupation and expropriation , Israel is believed to be contemplating a unilateral " final separation " in the most likely eventuality that the moribund peace process fails to come to life again . W hether it is the Labour Party or the right-wing Likud bloc that comes to power in the election on February 6 , the topography of this severance is unlikely to be radically different . The only difference is that under Labour , the Palestinian side may be of fered the option of voluntarily acquiescing , through an agreement guaranteed by the U.S. , in their final dispossession from the land . <p> THE preparations are under way . In the four months since the last phase of the Palestinian intifada began , Israel has followed a scorched earth policy in clearing Arab population centres in the occupied territories . One estimate is that in occupie d Gaza , the Israeli Army cleared no less than 1,000 acres ( 400 hectares ) of their Palestinian inhabitants . Overwhelmingly , the priority seems to be to provide secure routes of access to Israel proper for the Jewish settlers in the occupied territory . The Palestinian side to the Oslo peace negotiations naively believed that Israel would ultimately dismantle the illegal settlements it had built on occupied territories . Clearly , the final intent of Israel is not merely to maintain these outposts , but to fo rtify them by throwing more Palestinians off their lands . As it prepares finally to define its borders , the Jewish state is rehearsing its final gesture of contempt against every resolution of the U.N. , beginning with the one adopted at its very foundati on which insisted on the return of Palestinian refugees as the basic condition for the admission of Israel into the world body . <p> Israeli arrogance is only likely to fuel resentment within the Arab world over the pronounced asymmetry in the U.N . ' s dealings with Iraq . Ever since the occupation of Kuwait in 1990 , Iraq has been forced to fall in line with a series of resolutions that have often cut sharply into its sovereignty . And every such effort at compliance that the Iraqi regime has made has been followed by a raising of the bar - an insistence by the U.S. and the U.K. particularly , that ever more stringent conditions should be met before sanctions could be lifted . <p> Under enormous moral pressure from the world community , the U.S. and the U.K. have consented to a steady increase in the quantum of oil that Iraq is allowed to sell to finance its essential purchases . Aided partly by buoyant conditions in the global petr oleum market , Iraq last year managed to sell oil worth $17 billion . But only about 60 per cent of this is available for its imports of food , medicine and other essential supplies . The rest is earmarked for a U.N . compensation fund that has of late seen g rowing claims from Kuwait and other nations . <p> Hans von Sponeck , the German official who quit as U.N . humanitarian coordinator in Iraq to protest against the continued intransigence of the U.S. and the U.K. , estimates that the funding available under the oil-for-food programme was equivalent to $113 per person a year in the first three phases of the programme . This increased to $252 in the next three phases , and then to $408 . This , he says , is woeful : " No one can defend such funding as adequate , given the knowledge of the human conditions in Iraq to day . Oil revenue , the meagre lifeline for the Iraqi population , however , is deeply politicised by all parties . " <p> The U.S. and the U.K. have insisted that the blame lies not with the programme , but with the Iraqi authorities ' wilful withholding of essential supplies from the people . On this matter too , von Sponeck 's findings , presented in an article written in July 2000 , should be accepted as authoritative : " It was shown in a stock analysis done by the U.N . in February 2000 that 91.7 per cent of all humanitarian supplies had been distributed to end users since the inception of the programme . This is a figure that t he U.S. government simply ignores . Instead , there is the continued accusation of hoarding by the Iraqi regime , a completely incorrect assertion . " <p> Benon Sevan , Director of the Iraq Programme at the U.N . headquarters , has also concluded after extensive tours of inspection that the distribution procedures followed by the Iraqi authorities are the best that can be managed in the circumstances . His fin dings are that the oil-for-food programme has made no more than a minimal impact on life in Iraq , since it is not easy to reverse the legacy of a war of destruction and over five years of complete isolation . The U.N . humanitarian operation is limited by its own bureaucratic procedures , which hamper efficacy . Only a complete lifting of sanctions and the resumption of normal economic activity will now serve the purpose of bringing life back to Iraq , he concludes . <p> Since pulling out its inspectors from Iraq in December 1998 , the U.N . has been unable to resume its weapons decommissioning work . A body constituted under the leadership of atomic energy specialist Hans Blix went through an intensive programme of trainin g , but was then asked to disperse last year since there was no immediate prospect of it gaining access to Iraqi sites . Later , Kofi Annan and the second-ranking official in the Iraqi political hierarchy , Izzat Ibrahim , met during an Arab League summit in Qatar and agreed to start discussions on arms inspections after the month of Ramzan . Over a month after the Islamic month of penance and fasting concluded , there is no prospect of the meeting taking place . The U.N . system clearly faces a challenge to its credibility . Its own bureaucrats are in open dissent with the U.S. and the U.K. , which seek to bend the world body to their will . And it is now widely acknowledged that the so-called arms inspection regime was , especially under the leadership of the con niving Australian diplomat Richard Butler , transformed into a front for U.S. espionage directed at the overthrow of the Iraqi regime . <p> The older George Bush left office in 1993 after firing off a volley of 45 Tomahawk missiles against an industrial complex near Baghdad . Six months later , his successor Bill Clinton made his debut on the world stage by firing 27 missiles at the Iraqi inte lligence headquarters , ostensibly in retaliation for an unsuccessful assassination attempt against Bush . Since December 1998 , American and British warplanes have kept up a continuing war of attrition against Iraq , bombing randomly chosen targets at will , often at the cost of civilian life . How soon the younger George Bush would feel compelled to demonstrate his will in deploying the formidable American military machine in a punitive engagement against Iraq , remains to be seen . But he is clearly going to have a far more complex job justifying his actions to the world community than either his father or his immediate predecessor did . 
@@31496737 <p> WASHINGTON -- An executive order signed Wednesday that extends civil rights protection to Jews is likely to strengthen the hand of President Trump 's Education Department , where the department 's civil rights chief has been investigating some of the nation 's most elite universities for anti-Jewish bias . <p> Mr. Trump , at a Hanukkah celebration at the White House , opened the door on a case-by-case basis to essentially defining Judaism as a race or national origin , not just a religion , under the Civil Rights Act . His order also expanded the definition of anti-Semitism to include some anti-Israel sentiments . Both moves had been pushed by Kenneth L. Marcus , the head of the Education Department 's Office for Civil Rights , for years . <p> " This is our message to universities : if you want to accept the tremendous amount of federal dollars that you get every year , you must reject anti-Semitism , it 's very simple , " Mr. Trump said at the signing ceremony . <p> Even before the order , Mr. Marcus was already deeming Judaism a " national origin , " like Italian or Polish , to strengthen a campaign against what he sees as rampant anti-Semitism in higher education . At both the University of Pennsylvania and Stanford , Mr. Marcus has opened " national origin " investigations to determine whether qualified applicants were rejected because of their Judaism . <p> In the University of Pennsylvania case , the rejected applicant claimed he had the " full support of the vice provost in addition to having multiple-generation legacy status , " yet was passed over for a student of a different gender , race and religion . <p> In separate cases against New York University and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill , Mr. Marcus has investigated whether administrators have allowed their campuses to become hostile environments for Jewish students by coddling anti-Israel sentiment . Last year , he reopened a long-closed case brought by a Zionist group against Rutgers University , saying the Obama administration had ignored evidence that the school allowed a hostile environment for Jewish students . <p> The administration 's efforts come at a time of rising anti-Semitic attacks . An assailant involved in a deadly shooting on Tuesday at a Jersey City , N.J. , kosher supermarket was found to have published anti-Semitic posts online , a law enforcement official familiar with the case said on Wednesday . But Mr. Marcus 's approach has prompted criticisms that he is infringing on free speech and the rights of other minority groups while extending civil rights law well beyond its intent . <p> Those charges will grow louder with Mr. Trump 's executive order and its embrace of an expansive definition of anti-Semitism , one already used by the State Department , that labels as anti-Semitic " denying the Jewish people their right to self-determination , " by , for example , " claiming that the existence of a State of Israel is a racist endeavor . " <p> " Anti-Zionism is anti-Semitism , " wrote Jared Kushner , a senior White House adviser and the president 's son-in-law , in an Op-Ed article for The New York Times . " The inclusion of this language with contemporary examples gives critical guidance to agencies " enforcing civil rights law . <p> Last month , in a resolution agreement responding to an anti-Semitism complaint , the Education Department required the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill to revise its anti-discrimination policy to include " anti-Semitic harassment . " It was also required to describe in its policy how such anti-Semitism could manifest itself on campus . The changes have to be approved by Mr. Marcus 's office . <p> " The Department of Education is effectively strong-arming universities into adopting policies that would chill criticism of the Israeli government 's consistent and well-documented violations of Palestinian rights by falsely conflating it with anti-Semitism , " said Yousef Munayyer , the executive director of the U.S. Campaign for Palestinian Rights . <p> Also last month , the Office for Civil Rights opened a national-origin discrimination case against New York University that stemmed from an episode last year when pro-Palestinian groups were accused of disrupting a pro-Israel dance party . <p> " The department is deeply concerned about the rampant rise of anti-Semitism on campuses across this country , " the agency said in a statement on Tuesday . <p> The new executive order targets schools ' federal funding , mirroring the threat made by Mr. Trump in March when he signed an order protecting the right of conservative speakers to challenge " rigid , far-left ideology " on campuses . <p> Terry W. Hartle , a senior vice president at the American Council on Education , said the dueling orders concurrently limited and protected certain speech and would cause " enormous confusion " on college campuses . <p> " It 's hard to imagine how you can do both of these things successfully , " Mr. Hartle said . " Most colleges will err on the side of free speech , and the notion that the Department of Education could come after you for that is sobering . " <p> The Foundation for Individual Rights in Education , which has been generally supportive of Mr. Trump 's education policies , vowed to " defend students and faculty subjected to censorship as a result of the implementation of the executive order . " The group called on lawmakers to come up with " constitutional alternatives to combat unlawful harassment . " <p> The issue arises as campuses have become hotbeds of racial and cultural strife . In a 2018 report , the Anti-Defamation League found an 89 percent increase in reported episodes of anti-Semitism on college campuses in one year , as well as a steady rise in white-supremacist propaganda . <p> The North Carolina case stemmed from an event hosted by U.N.C. and Duke University , titled , " Conflict Over Gaza : People , Politics , and Possibilities , " this past spring that featured a Palestinian rapper , Tamer Nafar , who was accused of spouting anti-Semitic lyrics . <p> A video of the performance prompted a Republican lawmaker to ask the department to investigate . <p> " I knew it was going to be anti-Israel , I did n't know it was going to devolve into anti-Semitism , " said Ami Horowitz , a documentary filmmaker who shot the video . <p> A report from the Middle East studies program that hosted the event called comments the rapper made before his performance " inappropriate , " but protected by free speech laws . <p> The department opened civil rights investigations against both universities . <p> Duke 's inquiry is still pending , but U.N.C. resolved its portion last month . In its agreement with the Office for Civil Rights , the university said it would hold a series of community meetings , conduct anti-Semitism training and make clear in its anti-discrimination policy that Jewish students shared a national origin " on the basis of their actual or perceived shared ancestry or ethnic characteristics . " <p> The Zionist Organization of America , a group that Mr. Marcus has worked with for years , said the agreement sent " a powerful message to universities and colleges throughout the country that the U.S. government will hold them accountable for allowing campus anti-Semitism , anti-Zionism , and/or the physical or emotional harassment of Jewish students . " <p> For years , as the head of a Jewish civil rights organization , Mr. Marcus lobbied the department to extend national-origin protections to Jewish students because it does not have jurisdiction over religious discrimination . He unsuccessfully filed several civil rights complaints with the office , and in 2017 , he complained that the department was ill equipped to manage anti-Semitism cases . " It has found countless civil rights violations against women and against African-Americans , " he wrote . " But when it comes to anti-Semitism on campus , the agency has been paralyzed . " <p> Now on the inside , Mr. Marcus has divided the Education Department . Last fall , the department had to walk back Mr. Marcus 's assertion that it was using the State Department 's definition of anti-Semitism to re-examine a seven-year-old case against Rutgers University . <p> The department said it would determine whether anti-Semitism cases fell under its jurisdiction " on a case-by-case basis . " <p> But behind Mr. Marcus 's agenda is the weight of the White House . The anti-Semitism executive order repeatedly refers to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act , which extends protections on the basis of race , color or national origin , then states , " Discrimination against Jews may give rise to a Title VI violation when the discrimination is based on an individual 's race , color , or national origin . " <p> Last weekend , Mr. Trump touted the N.Y.U. investigation as proof of his administration 's pro-Israel bona fides . In remarks to the Israeli-American Council National Summit that included a series of anti-Semitic tropes , Mr. Trump invited Adela Cojab , who filed the complaint against N.Y.U. , to speak . <p> " My university failed to protect its Jewish community from ongoing harassment , from attacks on social media , to resolutions on student government , to boycotts , flag burnings , and physical assault , " Ms. Cojab said . <p> But the university drew the ire of pro-Israel groups when Students for Justice in Palestine , a student group involved in the disruption described by Ms. Cojab as " an anti-Israel hate group , " was recognized with a President 's Service Award . <p> The university 's president said he would not have bestowed the honor , which was awarded by a volunteer committee to 150 groups and individuals . The university has publicly repudiated B.D.S. proposals , condemned attacks on pro-Israel groups and rejected calls to close its 10-year-old Tel Aviv campus . <p> A spokesman for N.Y.U. , John Beckman , said the university " disputes any suggestion that it is or has been anything less than highly supportive of or deeply concerned about its Jewish community . " <p> Aisha Jitan , a senior at U.N.C. at Chapel Hill , said her school 's " spineless " agreement with the department was a " slap in the face " for Palestinian students , like herself , and other minorities . Ms. Jitan serves as a president of the university 's chapter of Students for Justice in Palestine and has taken classes at the Duke-U.N.C . Consortium for Middle East Studies -- which the department also investigated this year . <p> " The exact things that I 'm learning to resist -- Orientalist and Islamophobic narratives surrounding the Middle East -- are the exact narratives that the Department of Education is perpetuating , " Ms. Jitan said . <p> Mr. Marcus 's " national origin " inquiries have also received sharp pushbacks at Stanford and the University of Pennsylvania . <p> " We take allegations of discrimination extremely seriously . We have closely reviewed the facts in this matter and found no evidence of discrimination , " said Brad Hayward , a Stanford University spokesman . <p> Stephen MacCarthy , a spokesman for the University of Pennsylvania , said he would not comment on a specific accusation but said , " We believe our highly selective admissions policies are rigorous and nondiscriminatory. " 
@@31500049 <h> At Jewish National Fund-USA , I have always said that the people we work with in Israel are not in the hallways of the Knesset , they are on the ground , in the towns and cities of Israel . <p> As the political impasse in Israel continues , there is some uncertainty over the future of the country 's most vulnerable and the nonprofit organizations that support them . <p> At Jewish National Fund-USA , I have always said that the people we work with in Israel are not in the hallways of the Knesset , they are on the ground , in the towns and cities of Israel 's Galilee and Negev . While the news is consumed with what is happening behind the Knesset 's closed doors , we remain focused on the important work we do day in and day out to support the land and people of Israel everywhere . <p> Last month , as I was preparing to travel to Israel to spend time with over 250 people who were taking part in five different Jewish National Fund-USA missions visiting our philanthropic investments in Israel , I noticed a breaking news alert about rockets fired from Gaza into Israel . Immediately , I checked if it was one missile or more . It was more . I watched as one missile after another was launched from Gaza into the Israeli communities surrounding the border . Our Israeli friends who live in the Gaza Envelope describe life there as 99% heaven and 1% hell . The 1% hell was beginning again from Gaza , which Israel withdrew from 14 years ago . <p> Yes , we built , and are building trauma resilience centers in the Gaza Envelope along with the world-famous Sderot Indoor Recreation Center -- a fortified playground for young children to play in . While we will continue to build beautiful parks and new housing sites for Sderot 's residents , one thing we can not give them is the courage and strength that is embedded in the soul of each and every person living in that city . As the dust settles yet again , the residents of Sderot will not dwell on the past . They will clean up and move forward as they have always done . <p> The resilience of Sderot 's residents and those living in the Gaza Envelope can also be seen in countless towns and cities throughout Israel 's vast Negev Desert . From Be'er Sheva -- where Jewish National Fund-USA has been working side-by-side with Mayor Ruvik Danilovich and local residents to transform the city into one of Israel 's fastest-growing and most exciting metropolises -- to Halutza -- where former Gush Katif residents have created beautiful communities that are achieving remarkable things in agriculture and environmental science Additionally , let us not forget the residents of the Eshkol Region , who , through the support of Jewish National Fund-USA and the generosity of dedicated partners like Betsy and Peter Fischer , Pastor Jentezen Franklin , Faith Bible Chapel -- Arvada and Bob Lembke , are building new schools , kindergartens , playgrounds , and science centers . <p> Throughout Israel 's south , you see communities that are focused on living life and building better futures for their children and grandchildren -- in partnership with Jewish National Fund-USA . <p> One hundred and forty miles north in the Galilee region , Jewish National Fund-USA is supporting the rapidly growing Greater Kiryat Shmona region and the Western Galilee . We are building medical facilities , housing sites , and parks so that people will move to Israel 's north because of the high standard of living and access to world-class amenities . It is an incredible feeling to see the narrative of a region change so rapidly . Today , people do n't say , " I 'm from Kiryat Shmona , " rather , they exclaim , " I live in Kiryat Shmona ! " <p> Jewish National Fund-USA is also working with Western Galilee Now to boost tourism , increase employment , and drive economic development in the region . We are bringing local artisans , entrepreneurs , and small businesses together to build a stronger local economy . The JNF Western Galilee Tourist Information Center , located in Akko , has become the gateway to the hidden beauty of the Western Galilee -- a region that attracted 30,000 visitors in 2019 . The new Space Gallery at the Tourist Information Center has also hosted three different local artist exhibitions , each demonstrating a different aspect of the rich cultural diversity of the region while sharing the stories of local artists . <p> Whether you are in Israel 's north or south , it is impossible to escape the hive of activity taking place in communities full of residents eager to escape the squeeze of Israel 's bustling central cities -- who are building new , prosperous lives for themselves . <p> As we approach Chanukah , a time of light and miracles , we recall the story of the Maccabees , who demonstrated how a group of dedicated individuals can alter the course of history in the most miraculous ways . Today , because of the thousands of passionate partners , our donors , who support Jewish National Fund-USA , we are writing the next chapter in our People 's enthralling journey . Regardless of the news of the day , we are a movement that will always stand by the land and people of Israel , no matter what . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31504245 <h> Lines in the Sand : Qatar 's increasing isolation in the Arab world <h> An alliance of pro-US Sunni Arab states is emerging . <p> US President Donald Trump shakes hands with Abu Dhabi Crown Prince and Deputy Supreme Commander of the United Arab Emirates Armed Forces Mohammed bin Zayed al-Nahayan as he sits down to a meeting with of Gulf Cooperation Council leaders during their summit in Riyadh , Saudi Arabia <p> ( photo credit : JONATHAN ERNST / REUTERS ) <p> The decision by Saudi Arabia , the United Arab Emirates , Bahrain , Egypt and Yemen to cut off diplomatic relations with Qatar is the latest step in the reemergence of a clearly defined US-led Sunni Arab bloc of states . <p> The task of this alliance is to roll back Iranian influence and advancement in the region , and to battle against the forces of Sunni political Islam . <p> Little noticed by Western media , this conservative Sunni alliance against Iran and Sunni Islamism has been under construction for some time . <p> Saudi Arabia and the UAE were the first to recognize the new regime of Gen. Abdel Fattah al-Sisi following the military coup on July 3 , 2013 . Financial support from both countries has been crucial in ensuring the avoidance of economic disaster in Egypt . <p> The Saudis and Emiratis were the moving force behind the interventions into Bahrain in 2011 and Yemen in 2015 . In both cases , the intention was to prevent the advance of Iranian interests . <p> Both Saudi Arabia and the UAE maintained high levels of military spending over the last half decade , in spite of low oil prices . The two countries have sagely invested in air power and special operations forces -- the areas most relevant to the type of wars being fought at present in the Middle East . <p> The results have been visible over the last two years . <p> The intervention to prevent the advance of the Iran-supported Ansar Allah militia toward the strategically crucial Bab al-Mandab Strait was the first real " outing " for Gulf Arab nonproxy military power ( Operation Peninsula Shield into Bahrain in 2011 was a police action against popular unrest ) . <p> The results in Yemen have been mixed , but by no means constitute the debacle that the intervention has been presented as in some quarters . The Houthis remain in control of Sanaa , the Yemeni capital , but the nightmare scenario in which an Iran-supported force acquires control of the narrow Bab al-Mandab Strait , through which all shipping between the Gulf of Aden and the Red Sea must pass , was avoided . Emirati and Saudi special operations forces played a key role in the fighting . <p> In Libya , Emirati air power , employed in support of Gen. Khalifa Haftar 's Libyan National Army , has played an important part in Haftar 's fight against Islamist forces . The Emiratis built a forward air base , al-Khadim , in Marj province , 100 km. from Benghazi . AT-802 light attack aircraft and UH-60 Blackhawk helicopters operate from the base , according to satellite imagery published by IHS Jane 's . <p> However , the election of US President Donald Trump appears to have sharply increased the scope and ambitions of the pro-US Gulf Arab states . It is clear that they identify a regional outlook similar to their own in Trump and key figures around him . This raises the possibility of a more assertive and clearly defined strategy regarding both the Iranian and Sunni Islamist adversaries . <p> At the Riyadh meeting on May 21 , 55 Muslim-majority countries signed a declaration pledging to establish " a reserve force of 34,000 troops to support operations against terrorist organizations in Iraq and Syria when needed . " <p> According to the final communique from the summit , the leaders who were present " confirmed their absolute rejection of the practices of the Iranian regime designed to destabilize the security and stability of the region and the world at large and for its continuing support for terrorism and extremism , " and accused Tehran of maintaining a " dangerous ballistic missiles program " and of " continuing interference in the domestic affairs of other countries . " A third of the document was devoted to criticism of Iranian regional activities . <p> The signing of the Riyadh Declaration took place following Trump 's visit to Riyadh . Trump , in his speech at the summit , accused Iran of " spreading destruction and chaos across the region . " <p> Declarations by Gulf states have not always been followed by concerted action on the ground , of course . But with the current emergent standoff between pro-Western and pro-Iranian forces in eastern Syria , and the incremental loss of territory by Islamic State in that area , it is not hard to think of the type of roles that a standing Gulf Arab counterterrorism force would play -- for example , in holding and administering Sunni Arab areas in cooperation with local forces . <p> An additional , unstated assumption behind the emergence of this bloc is that the energies of the Arab uprisings that began in late 2010 are largely spent . A bloc led by Saudi Arabia , the UAE and Sisi 's Egypt will not seek to mobilize the revolutionary energies of populations . Rather , as with that of the Iranians , this alliance will be a top-down affair , featuring regular and semi-regular military forces carefully commanded and controlled from above . <p> In this regard , it is interesting to note that the main casualty of the emergence of this alliance is Qatar , the country that , above all others , sought to fan the flames of the uprisings . <p> Qatar , through its support for Muslim Brotherhood-associated movements and via its enormously influential Al Jazeera satellite channel , tried to turn the energies of the Sunni Arab masses in Syria , Egypt and the Palestinian territories into political power and influence for itself ( while , of course , harshly suppressing any attempts by its own largely noncitizen population to claim rights ) . This project has failed . <p> For a moment , a large Sunni Islamist bloc based on Qatari money and Muslim Brotherhood power seemed to be emerging . Brotherhood-associated parties controlled Cairo , Ankara , Tunis and Gaza . Similar movements seemed plausibly within reach of Damascus . But this bloc proved stillborn , and little of it now remains . <p> The hour of the revenge of Doha 's Gulf neighbors has thus arrived . The shunting aside of little Qatar , however , is ultimately only a detail in the larger picture . What is more significant is the reemergence of an overt alliance of Sunni Arab states under US leadership , following the development of military capabilities in relevant areas , and with the stated intention of challenging the Iranian regional advance and Sunni political Islam . <p> It remains to be seen what this bloc will be able to achieve regarding its stated aims . But the lines of confrontation between the two central power blocs in the region are now more clearly drawn than at any time in recent years . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31510547 <h> Jerusalem to remain united in ' Deal of the Century ' - report <h> In the reported draft , Jerusalem would remain unified under shared control between a new Palestinian state and Israel . <p> U.S. President Donald Trump speaks at the Israeli-American Council Summit in Hollywood , Florida , U.S. December 7 , 2019 <p> ( photo credit : REUTERS/MARIA ALEJANDRA CARDONA ) <p> Jerusalem will remain united under mostly Israeli control with some responsibilities shared with a Palestinian state including the West Bank and Gaza , according to a purported draft copy of US President Donald Trump 's " Deal of the Century " peace plan for the Middle East published by the Lebanese Al-Mayadeen TV channel on Monday . <p> The unconfirmed reported draft details the timetable and methods of the plan . <p> The parts that were released by the TV channel , which is based in Lebanon and affiliated with Hezbollah , discuss a trilateral peace agreement between the Palestinian Authority , Hamas and Israel in which a " new Palestinian state " would be established in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip , excluding the settlement blocs which would remain as a part of Israel . <p> Hamas and the Palestinian Authority are currently in talks to hold overarching elections for the West Bank , Gaza Strip and Jerusalem . <p> Jerusalem will not be split up in the agreement , but instead will be " shared " between Israel and the Palestinian state , with the Arab population of the city becoming residents of the Palestinian state , according to the reported draft . <p> Al-Aqsa Mosque will be put under Saudi Arabian control instead of Jordanian control , according to the reported draft . The mosque is currently administered by the Waqf , an arm of the Jordanian Ministry of Sacred Properties . It is unclear whether the rules currently prohibiting non-Muslim prayer at the site would change under Saudi Arabian control . It is also unclear why this change would take place . <p> The Jerusalem municipality would become responsible for the entire city of Jerusalem , but the Palestinian state would be responsible for education and would pay the Israeli municipality taxes and utilities . <p> Jews will not be allowed to purchase Arab homes and Arab wo n't be able to purchase Jewish home -- and no additional areas will be annexed to Jerusalem . Holy sites in the city will remain as they are today , according to the report . <p> In the Gaza Strip , Egypt would grant land to the new Palestinian state in order to build an airport and industrial facilities . Palestinians would not be able to live in the lands provided by Egypt . <p> A highway and a pipeline for treated water would be built between Gaza and the West Bank , according to the reported draft . The United States , the European Union and the Gulf states would help implement the agreement and sponsor it economically . " An amount of $30 billion will be allocated over a period of 5 years for projects related to the new Palestinian state , " reported Al-Mayadeen . <p> The United States will provide 20% of the funds in the agreement , while the EU will provide 10% and the Gulf nations will provide 70% . The contribution provided by the Gulf nations will be split between them according to their oil producing capabilities . <p> According to the draft , an agreement will be signed between Israel and the new Palestinian state , with Israel providing protection to the state from " external aggression , " while the Palestinians pay for it . The amount that the Palestinians will need to pay for this protection will be negotiated between the Arab nations and Israel . <p> The Al-Mayadeen report detailed a timetable provided in the draft copy of the agreement . <p> Upon the signing of the agreement , Hamas will hand over its weapons and armaments to Egypt , and members of Hamas will receive monthly salaries from Arab nations . The borders of the Gaza Strip will be opened to international trade through the crossings with Israel and Egypt and by sea . Trade will also open between Gaza and the West Bank . <p> A year after the agreement is signed , democratic elections will be held for the Palestinian state , with all Palestinian citizens being able to run as candidates . Around that time , all prisoners would begin being released , to be completed over a period of three years . <p> Within five years , a seaport and airport will be established for the Palestinian state . Until that point , Palestinians will be able to use Israeli ports . <p> The borders between the Palestinian state and Israel will be open to the passage of civilians and goods . A highway that rises 30 meters above the ground will connect Gaza to the West Bank . The highway would be built by a Chinese company . <p> The Jordan Valley would remain under Israeli control , according to the report . Highway 90 will be expanded and will link the Palestinian state with Jordan . The highway will be supervised by the Palestinians . <p> If Hamas and the PLO reject the deal , the United States will end all financial support they provide to the Palestinians and will try to prevent other countries from providing support to the Palestinians . <p> If the PLO accepts the agreement and Hamas or the Palestinian Islamic Jihad ( PIJ ) terrorist groups do n't accept , then the two organizations would bear the responsibility of their decision . In any military confrontation between Israel and Hamas , the US will support Israel in order to harm the leaders of Hamas and PIJ , as the US wo n't accept a situation in which dozens of people control the fate of millions . <p> If Israel rejects the deal , the US will end economic support to the state , according to Al-Mayadeen . <p> Although Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas has said that the US is biased , one of his chief advisers reportedly said they would not reject Trump 's plan outright . <p> A letter published in The Guardian by former EU officials , including six prime ministers and 25 foreign ministers , called for postponing the " Deal of the Century " because it is unfair to the Palestinians . <p> In the letter , which was sent to the European Union and EU governments , the former leaders argue that Europe must stand by the two-state solution and condemn the Trump administration 's policy , which they claim is unilaterally in favor of Israel . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31515138 <h> The indication of the importance of a field is measured by the resources allocated to it , and to the people who lead it . <p> Recently , IDF Chief of Staff Lt.-Gen . Aviv Kochavi and Prime Minister and Defense Minister Benjamin Netanyahu decided to appoint Maj.-Gen . Yoel Strick as commander of Ground Forces . This right step shows the importance the chief of staff sees in upgrading and strengthening those forces . <p> During the tenure of Gadi Eisenkot , there was a significant force buildup that improved its operational capability . But the claims raised by former IDF ombudsman Maj.-Gen. ( res . ) Yitzhak Brick prove that much more work is still needed in order to bridge the many gaps in the readiness of the Ground Forces . <p> The indication of the importance of a field is measured by the resources allocated to it , and to the people who lead it . The appointment of Strick , who commanded the Givati Brigade , the Galilee Division , the Home Front Command and the Northern Command , brings with it a possibility for change . But he will also have to come with the promises of authority , budgets , backing and support from the chief of staff . <p> Strick 's replacement in the Northern Command will be Maj.-Gen . Amir Baram ( my battalion commander in the paratroopers , whom I highly respect ) . The Lebanese scene is familiar to him from long years of fighting . <p> About 25 years ago , Baram led the Paratroopers Brigade anti-tank company in a complex operation near the Lebanese village of Kafra , during which the force directed attack helicopters that killed four Hezbollah operatives . A few years later , he was called in to command the brigade 's Reconnaissance Company , after its commander Eitan Balachsan was killed in a skirmish in southern Lebanon . <p> Baram rehabilitated the company and managed to lead its soldiers in a successful skirmish with terrorists , shortly before the IDF withdrew from Lebanon . During the Second Intifada , he commanded the 890th Battalion , and later commanded the Maglan Reconnaissance Unit , the Samaria Brigade , the 35th Paratroopers Brigade and two divisions . Baram , an old subordinate of the chief of staff since the time Kochavi was his company commander in the Paratroopers Brigade , is expected to be an important member of the General Staff . <p> Unlike some senior members of the defense establishment , Baram is a firm believer in the ground maneuver . <p> " I love the Iron Dome system , but in the end , it will reach its limit . There comes a time at which each dome will need a hammer next to it , and then we will have to recall what we did in Defensive Shield , " he once said . <p> In the case of a campaign in Lebanon , Baram will be required to command a large-scale ground maneuver . Strick would be the one who would be required to close the gaps in competence and make sure the Ground Forces are capable and ready to carry it out . <p> TWO OTHER officers promoted in the round were Brig. -Gen . Itai Virov and Brig. -Gen . Yehuda Fuchs , who will be appointed IDF attach ? in the United States . Virov , who successfully commanded a reserve Paratroopers Brigade in the last days of the Second Lebanon War , as well as the Gaza Division , will replace Baram as commander of the military colleges . <p> Fuchs , who commanded the Nahal Brigade and replaced Virov at the Gaza Division , is a talented officer . However , it would have been better if the most senior defense representative to Israel 's strategic alliance would not be a general in his first position , however talented , who lacks experience in the General Staff echelon and in Israel 's strategic floor . <p> Sixteen years ago , journalist Avihai Becker ( himself a former Golani Brigade company commander ) , published an article in Haaretz about Benny Gantz , the general who later became chief of staff , on his appointment as the commander of the Northern Command . " Somehow it happened that all those officers who used to gather around the conference table of Paratroopers Brigade commander Col. Shaul Mofaz , today head all the most sensitive and important sectors in the IDF , " Becker wrote . <p> He did not lack examples : The commander of the Judea and Samaria Division was Yitzhak " Jerry " Gershon , who was the commander of Battalion 202 in the brigade and fought under Mofaz in the raid on the Hezbollah stronghold in Maidun in 1988 ; the commander of the Galilee Division was Meir Kalifi , the brigade executive officer in the raid ; Israel Ziv commanded the 50th Battalion at the same time ; and Gantz himself commanded Battalion 890 . <p> " It does not matter how you look at the phenomenon : The question arises as to how all military intelligence and professionalism stem from only one source -- Mofaz 's Paratroopers Brigade , " Becker wrote . <p> With the appointment of Kochavi as chief of staff , this question arose again , as three generals who served under him as battalion commanders are sitting around his General Staff table : Amir Baram , the Military Colleges commander ; Aharon Haliva , head of the Operations Directorate ; and Miki Edelstein , the IDF attach ? in the United States . They will soon be joined by Itay Viroy , who served as the commander of the brigade training base under Kochavi . ( And it is not as if there are no more paratroopers in the General Staff , such as Herzi Halevi and Moti Baruch , who did not serve under him ) . <p> Worthy commanders were promoted to positions where they will be able to bring their advantages and experience to an optimal realization . But in order to prevent the danger in which the General Staff table will seat only commanders who think in the same way -- because they all served in the same unit and went through a very similar career -- preferably the next appointments will have room for those who grew up in the Armored Corps , Artillery and perhaps even Combat Engineering . <p> The writer is the founder and operator of the ' In the Crosshairs ' blog on the military , security vision , strategy and practice . <p> var cont = Sign up for The Jerusalem Post Premium Plus for just $5Upgrade your reading experience with an ad-free environment and exclusive content <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31515139 <p> Then there is the flip side that is better known in Israel : sometimes indecisive in battle ; and not resolute enough in meeting the challenge of settlement in the strategic , mountainous heartland of Israel -- Judea and Samaria ( the so-called " West Bank " ) -- and of course , in Jerusalem , Israel 's eternal capital since the days of King David over 3,000 years ago . <p> Once labeled " King Bibi " by an American magazine due to his seemingly irreplaceable status , things may be changing for Netanyahu and his Likud party . With the attorney-general about to announce a possible bribery indictment against him , Netanyahu seems to be somewhat in defensive mode as his nation enters election season once again . <p> With elections scheduled for April 9 , there is a new Benjamin in town , and he seems to be taking Israel by storm . Formerly chief of staff of the IDF , Benny Gantz has entered politics for the first time , forming his own Israel Resilience Party , and seriously challenging Netanyahu 's predominant right-of-center Likud . Recent polls show Gantz lagging just a few percentage points behind . <p> With seven weeks remaining until the election , Gantz is already the darling of the media . In a country that has always been enamored of generals , and which always seems to be searching for the latest messiah in the form of a new centrist party , Gantz seems to fit the current perceived need . Voters are flocking in droves to the tall and handsome Gantz , especially from the establishment left-wing Labor Party , which seems to be self-destructing more and more with each passing day . <p> Unlike the United States , Israel is a parliamentary democracy in which the citizens vote not for an individual , but for a party . And the leader of the largest party has the challenge of forming a coalition with smaller parties , the goal being to attain a majority of seats in the Knesset . <p> Having said that , one might think the focus would be on the issues , not on good looks or past military prestige . But in the age of mass media , surface appeal is unavoidable . Until last week , Gantz did n't need to say a word on policy to achieve his strong standing in the polls . In fact , from his perspective , it was better not to say anything . But in a tiny country like Israel where most issues are potentially explosive , issues eventually need to be confronted , and that 's what happened last week as the campaign began to pick up steam . <p> In his maiden policy speech , Gantz raised many eyebrows by praising Israel 's now unpopular 2005 unilateral withdrawal from Gaza , in which some 10,000 Israelis were forcibly expelled from their homes in a bitter and painful process that nearly tore the fabric of the country apart . <p> ACCORDING TO Gantz , " It was a legal move that was adopted by the Israeli government and carried out by the IDF and the settlers in a painful but good way . We have to take those lessons and implement them in other places . " <p> With President Donald Trump 's peace plan still not released , but already being publicly debated , it behooves all Israelis , as well as Americans who care about Israel , to understand that the " land-for-peace " formula -- which has been recycled and regurgitated by virtually every American administration in recent years -- was proven dead after the Gaza withdrawal , when the Hamas terrorist organization set up its rocket launching pads on the ruins of the once-peaceful and thriving Jewish communities . <p> By clearly hinting at further withdrawals from Judea and Samaria as being a positive option for an Israel that wants " to learn its lessons , " Gantz is going against an Israel mainstream that , to a great extent , is now opposing the land-for-peace formula . In one recent poll , only 36% of Israelis believed that further withdrawals would bring peace . Now that Gantz is speaking out , his 2014 Gaza war conduct is also being questioned , after he said it was correct to risk the lives of IDF soldiers in order to help reduce collateral civilian casualties among the enemy population in Gaza . The statement is especially disturbing since it is well known that in every armed conflict , Hamas intentionally hides its armed forces , its weapons factories , and its missile launchers in civilian population centers , daring Israel to attack . <p> Yes , it is certainly true that Gantz is the new attractive face and popular new politician in a country that loves its **27;6923;TOOLONG . Former prime minister Yitzhak Rabin brought us the failed Oslo peace process , which led to the bloodiest wave of terrorism in Israel 's history . Several years later , prime minister Ehud Barak proposed surrendering 95% of Judea and Samaria and half of Jerusalem , a suicidal proposal for Israel , which was nonetheless ridiculed by Yasser Arafat , Mahmoud Abbas and the so-called Palestinians . Gen. Benny Gantz is continuing the tradition of posing as a tough , military centrist to get elected as prime minister , but eventually revealing his left-wing stripes . <p> Netanyahu is a sometimes flawed , but experienced leader who has steered the Israeli ship of state through some unstable waters , developing new cooperative relationships in the Middle East at a time when they are badly needed and desired . The current existential threat from an Iran seeking to attack Israel from both Lebanon and Syria , while achieving nuclear bomb status , requires a firmness and resolve that Gantz and his potential partners on the Left clearly do n't possess . We 're not referring to personal weakness , but a weakness rooted in the failed land-for-peace ideology that has never worked . <p> If Netanyahu 's Likud wins , and especially if his potential coalition partners to his Right also perform well , Israelis can sleep more soundly . As Benjamin Netanyahu faces his most difficult challenges , the world should know that he is still the better Benjamin . Benny Gantz is not the messiah . <p> The writer is the former mayor of Shiloh ; author of ' Trump and the Jews ' ; and the founder and president of Shiloh Israel Children 's Fund , established after he and his three-year-old son were wounded in a terrorist attack . DavidRubinIsrael.com or ShilohIsraelChildren.org . <p> var cont = Sign up for The Jerusalem Post Premium Plus for just $5Upgrade your reading experience with an ad-free environment and exclusive content <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31515141 <h> On Sunday afternoon , Israel 's security cabinet met and instructed the military to intensify its attacks in the Strip . <p> The IDF has reinforced troops along the Gaza border after close to 700 rockets were fired towards southern Israel since Saturday by Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad ( PIJ ) from the Gaza Strip , killing four civilians and injuring close to 80 others . <p> Terrorist groups fired dozens of rocket barrages toward southern Israel on Sunday , as well as several longer-range projectiles towards central Israel . According to the IDF , terrorist groups in the Strip also tried to carry out a terrorist attack using a rocket propelled grenade ( RPG ) attached to a drone . The RPG-laden drone , which landed on a tank deployed along the border , did not explode . <p> On Saturday night , Moshe Agadi , a father of four , was killed when a rocket struck his home in Ashkelon when he went out to smoke a cigarette . He was struck by shrapnel to his stomach and chest and was taken by Magen David Adom teams to Barzilai Hospital where he was pronounced dead . <p> Moshe Feder , 64 , from Kfar Saba , was killed Sunday afternoon after a Kornet anti-tank guided missile struck a car near the Gaza border between the communities of Yad Mordechai and Sderot . <p> Ziad Alhamamda was killed after he was critically injured in his chest by shrapnel from a direct strike on a factory in Ashkelon , dying from his wounds shortly after . <p> Pinchas Menachem Prezuazman , 21 years-old , was also killed Sunday evening after he suffered severe shrapnel injuries to his chest while running to a shelter in Ashdod . <p> On Sunday afternoon , Israel 's Security Cabinet met and instructed the military to intensify its attacks in the Strip . <p> Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh said on Sunday night that he does not rule out the possibility of reaching a ceasefire agreement with Israel . <p> In a statement , Haniyeh said that the " return to calm is possible and depends on the commitment of the occupation to a complete ceasefire . " <p> Haniyeh said any ceasefire should also include the weekly protests along the border between the Gaza Strip and Israel , also known as the Great March of Return . <p> " The response of the resistance is linked to the level of Zionist aggression , " Haniyeh said , adding that Israel must also abide by the recent Egyptian-sponsored ceasefire understandings between the Gaza-based groups and Israel . <p> " The slow pace of the implementation of the understandings and the attempt to gain time have created an increased state of tension among our people in Gaza because of the crimes committed by the occupation during the current aggression , " the Hamas leader added . <p> Due to the violence in the South , the IDF has deployed the 7th armored brigade , " which would be ready to act as an offensive force within the Gaza Division " as well as the Golani brigade . The Paratroopers brigade is on standby to deploy south if needed , the military said . <p> A senior Israel Air Force officer said Sunday that over 600 hundred rockets were fired at Israel from the Gaza Strip since Saturday morning , and that over 150 had been intercepted by the Iron Dome missile defense system . While the majority struck in open areas , 35 struck urban areas in Israel . <p> In retaliation , the IAF struck over 280 targets belonging to PIJ and Hamas , IDF Spokesperson Brig. -Gen . Ronen Manelis said . In addition , Manelis and the senior Air Force officer both confirmed that the military had begun carrying out targeted assassinations in the Strip against Hamas militants . <p> The first targeted strike since 2014 hit a vehicle carrying 39-year-old Hamed Ahmed Abed Khudari , who the IDF said was in charge of large-scale money transfers from Iran to terror groups in the Strip . <p> The officer told reporters that the IDF " had not carried out a targeted assassination in a long time " and that a number of aircraft participated in the strike , which was carried out in the heart of Gaza City with the approval of Israel 's political echelon . <p> " We are prepared to continue operating with the message that Hamas and its men are vulnerable , " the officer said , adding that this is in an attempt to " renew deterrence " against the terrorist group . <p> " We are acting against Hamas and the PIJ -- but for us , Hamas is the sovereign and its role is to stop PIJ , " he said , explaining that under this directive , the IDF has carried out over 100 sorties , striking weapon warehouses , terror infrastructures , terrorist cells , tunnels and more . <p> " We are prepared for the possibility of escalation , " he continued , warning that " we have not used everything yet : there 's a lot more we can do . " <p> The targets struck by Israel 's military overnight included rocket launchers and a Hamas military position in the northern Gaza Strip , as well as dozens of private homes belonging to Hamas and PIJ commanders . Also struck were attack tunnels , military compounds and emplacements , storage houses and weapons factories belonging to Hamas and PIJ . <p> Israel 's navy also struck several naval targets belonging to the two groups . <p> According to the Hamas-run Gaza Health Ministry , 16 Palestinians have been killed including several members of the terror groups ' rocket-launching cells . Another 80 Palestinians were said to have been injured . The ministry also claimed that a Palestinian woman and her 14 month-old niece were killed in Israeli strikes on Saturday night , a claim repeatedly denied by the IDF which says that the two were killed by a Hamas rocket which failed to launch within a populated area . <p> On Sunday morning , the two groups threatened to increase the range of their rocket fire , saying in a joint statement that they are considering firing rockets to cities over 40 kilometers from the blockaded coastal enclave . <p> " We are prepared for additional days of fighting , " Manelis told reporters in a telephone call , adding that the military is " prepared " for rocket fire on central Israel , including Tel Aviv . <p> The Home Front Command instructed residents living within 40 km. of the Gaza Strip to consult with heads of local authorities , and remain near protected spaces . Public gatherings were limited to 300 people in enclosed spaces only , and agricultural work was banned . All studies in southern Israel were also canceled due to the security situation . <p> While Tel Aviv did not open public shelters , many municipalities did , including Beersheba , Rishon Lezion , Netanya and others.Energy Minister Yuval Steinitz decided on Sunday to temporarily halt natural gas supplies from the offshore Tamar field due to a surge in violence with Gaza militants , the ministry said in a statement . <p> Steinitz declared an emergency to ensure that power generation is not interrupted , the ministry said . This typically means using more expensive fossil fuels like diesel and fuel oil . <p> Israel receives most of its natural gas supplies from Tamar . The field is located some 90 kilometers ( 56 miles ) in deep Mediterranean waters , but its production platform stands just 25 kilometers off the coast of southern Israel . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31515145 <h> Corbyn to Communist paper : Israel has ' high levels of influence ' on media <h> UK Labour Party leader made the allegation in an op-ed article he wrote for Communist Morning Star newspaper in 2009 . <p> JEREMY CORBYN , leader of the Labour Party , gives a speech in London last month . <p> ( photo credit : HANNAH MCKAY/ REUTERS ) <p> UK Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn wrote in a 2009 opinion article that the Israeli government had " unbelievably high levels of influence " over " parts of the media , " comments that re-emerged on Thursday and led to further allegations of antisemitism against him . <p> Corbyn 's comments were directed at the BBC , the UK 's public-service broadcaster , whose director at the time , Mark Thompson , was and is still married to Jane Blumberg , a Jewish woman . <p> Corbyn also asserted that Israel has control over US foreign policy , writing " How far an Obama administration is prepared to stand up to Israel and limit its control of US foreign policy is unclear . " <p> The emergence of these comments follows swiftly after the revelation on Wednesday that Corbyn wrote a foreword for an antisemitic book in 2011 . <p> Corbyn 's op-ed , made public on Thursday by UK-based freelance journalist Iggy Ostanin , was originally published in the UK 's Communist Morning Star newspaper on January 28 , 2009 , shortly after the end of the Israel-Gaza conflict known as Operation Cast Lead . <p> In his piece , he complained about the BBC 's refusal to broadcast a charity appeal for disaster relief in Gaza which the BBC said it refused to do in order to maintain impartiality . <p> " What this embarrassing saga demonstrates is the contempt that the BBC directors appear to have for the views of their license fee-payers , and the unbelievably high levels of influence that Israel 's government appears to have in the upper echelons of parts of the media . " <p> In response to the revelations , the UK organization Campaign Against Antisemitism ( CAA ) pointed out that accusations that Jews control the media is one of the best known antisemitic conspiracy theories . <p> Such allegations also come under the internationally recognized definition of antisemitism by the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance , which states that contemporary examples of antisemitism include : " making mendacious , dehumanizing , demonizing , or stereotypical allegations about Jews , " including " the myth about a world Jewish conspiracy or of Jews controlling the media . " <p> CAA chairman Gideon Falter said that Corbyn 's comments about Israeli governmental influence over the media derived directly from antisemitic theories of Jewish power . <p> " The notion that the Israeli government has ' unbelievably high levels of influence ' over the media is a conspiracy theory drawn straight from racist myths about Jewish power , " Falter said . <p> Alleging that the Labour leader is actually antisemitic , Falter referenced the foreword Corbyn wrote for the antisemitic book Imperialism : A Study by J. A. Hobson , which was revealed on Tuesday night by UK 's The Times newspaper , as well as the conspiracy theory Corbyn advanced in 2012 about what he implied was an Israeli false-flag operation in the Sinai Peninsula against the Egyptian army . <p> " Jeremy Corbyn has a history of endorsing such conspiracy theories , whether he is accusing ' the hand of Israel ' of being behind Islamist attacks in Egypt , or writing his glowing foreword to a tome alleging that a ' peculiar race ' has successfully plotted to control Europe , " said Falter . <p> " Due to the weight of evidence , we have had no option other than to conclude that the reason Mr. Corbyn promotes these views is that he himself is an antisemite . " <p> The Labour Party has not yet responded to a request for comment . <p> Corbyn has , however , responded to the allegations made about his foreword to the antisemitic book -- which was first published in 1902 , and talked of how " international capitalism " is " controlled by men of a single and peculiar race , who have behind them many centuries of financial experience , " referring to Jews and in particular the Rothschild family . <p> Corbyn , who wrote his foreword in 2011 , told the JOE.co.uk website on Wednesday that he deplored the language in the book , which he said referred to " minorities , " but not the ideas about imperialism that it espoused . <p> " The language in that book to describe minorities is absolutely deplorable and I totally deplore it , " he said . " What my foreword was doing was analyzing the process which led to the First World War , of the wars between empires in Europe -- that 's what the book was about . Indeed many , many people have referenced that in speeches they 've made -- not just me -- many , many others . " <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31515148 <h> After 37 years , the body of Sgt. Zachary Baumel has returned to Israel <h> There was no prisoner exchange , Manelis said , explaining that it was an operational mission carried out by military intelligence . <p> Miriam and Yonah Baumel hold a picture of their son Zachary Baumel , who was taken prisoner of war in 1982 , in Jerusalem on July 07 , 2003 <p> ( photo credit : FLASH90 ) <p> Almost 37 years after Sgt. Zachary Baumel went missing in action during the Battle of Sultan Yacoub in the 1982 Lebanon War , his body has been returned to Israel for burial . <p> Baumel 's remains were repatriated via a third country several days ago aboard an El Al flight , following an operation by Israeli intelligence agencies . He was identified by his DNA at the Abu Kabir Forensic Institute , as well as by Chief IDF Rabbi Brig. -Gen . Eyal Karim , IDF Spokesman Brig. -Gen . Ronen Manelis said on Wednesday.The head of the Manpower Directorate , Maj.-Gen . Moti Almoz , personally informed the Baumel family that their son 's remains had been identified . His body was handed over to family members on Wednesday afternoon . <p> Prime Minister Benjamin <p> Netanyahu thanked Israel 's intelligence community for its " tremendous efforts " in bringing Baumel back to Israel and said that the military also recovered his tzitzit ( religious fringed garment ) along with his tank jumpsuit . <p> " He was a very devoted Zionist -- this Zionism led him into the battle in which he fell , " Netanyahu said during a press conference . " He was considered missing for 37 years . For all those years , the State of Israel invested immense resources to resolve the riddle of his fate . " <p> Recalling his interactions with Baumel 's father , Netanyahu said that " many times , Yona told me in tears that he had one prayer -- to find Zachary before he passes away . " <p> Yona Baumel passed away in 2009 at the age of 81 , without ever learning the fate of his son . <p> " From here in Jerusalem , we say , ' May his memory be a blessing forever , ' " Netanyahu concluded . <p> The Battle of Sultan Yacoub between the IDF and the Syrian army took place on the sixth day of the First Lebanon War in June 1982 in the Bekaa Valley . <p> At the end of the battle , the battalion and additional forces had suffered 20 dead and more than 30 wounded , and six soldiers were missing . Eight IDF tanks also fell into Syrian hands , two of which had three missing IDF soldiers who had been involved in two separate incidents about three kilometers apart : Sgt. Yehuda Katz , a gunner in one tank crew , and Baumel and Sgt. Zvi Feldman in another tank . <p> The fates of the other three soldiers -- Ariel Lieberman , commander Hezi Shai and Zohar Lipschitz -- were discovered later . <p> Lieberman and Shai were returned to Israel alive in 1985 via a prisoner exchange deal that took place three years later , while the remains of Lipschitz , who was killed in the battle and buried in Syria , were returned to Israel in 1986 . <p> " This was a long-term effort by the intelligence community and the Missing Persons Division , during which various operational activities were carried out to locate the missing soldiers , " the military said , adding that the IDF is " committed to continuing the efforts to locate Sgt. Yehuda Katz , Sgt. Tzvika Feldman , all the missing soldiers and captives , and all fallen IDF soldiers whose burial places are unknown . " <p> While Feldman was in the same tank as Baumel when he was killed , Manelis would not comment on whether the body of Feldman would soon be found . <p> According to Channel 13 , nearly a dozen other bodies were brought to Israel in the operation to retrieve the remains of the three missing soldiers . While authorities have completed checking almost all bodies and have confirmed that they are not Feldman and Katz , there is still one left to be analyzed . <p> President Reuven Rivlin extended his condolences to the Baumel family , saying that after 37 " unbearable years of painful waiting , of questions and doubts , " Baumel has been " brought home to Israel . " <p> " On this difficult , moving and sad day , our thoughts are with the Baumel family , crying and hurting with them , as they bring their son Zachary to eternal rest in our country , our land , " he said . <p> " I thank the IDF and the whole Israeli intelligence community for their commitment , bravery and action , day and night , to bring our soldiers and those who fell defending the country and the people home . We will not cease until all our soldiers have returned home ... We go to battle together , and together we return from it , " he added . <p> IDF Chief of Staff Lt.-Gen . Aviv Kochavi commented on Baumel 's repatriation during a ceremony marking the change of the Northern Command , saying that " on the shoulders of IDF commanders , whom I lead , there is a great obligation to take care of every soldier who joins the IDF and swears allegiance to Israel . " <p> " This was a multi-year effort , during which various studies and operations were carried out to locate the missing persons . The culmination of the effort was a series of operations led by the Intelligence Branch , which led to the identification and return of Sgt. Baumel . " <p> Manelis would n't say where Baumel had been buried for all these years . But in September , Russia claimed that its military worked with Israel on an operation to locate the remains of fallen IDF soldiers that were in Syrian territory , which had been under the control of Islamic State . <p> " Israel appealed to Russia with a request for help finding the remains of Israeli servicemen located at specific coordinates in Syria . The search was organized after Russia agreed to the operation with our Syrian partners , " said Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj.-Gen . Igor Konashenkov . <p> Several months earlier , in May , an official from the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine -- General Command claimed that ISIS terrorists had excavated graves in the Jewish cemetery of Damascus , where it had been rumored that the bodies had been buried . <p> There was no prisoner exchange , Manelis said , explaining that it was an operational mission carried out by Military Intelligence . <p> According to the military , the negotiation process between Israel and the PLO in 1993 formed " the basis for an intelligence breakthrough " regarding the burial place of the three missing soldiers . <p> " In November 1993 , half of a dog tag that belonged to the late Sgt. Zachary Baumel was handed over to the late prime minister Yitzhak Rabin . This finding , along with partial information provided by PLO chairman Yasser Arafat , constituted a real and primary source of progress in relation to locating the place of burial of the missing persons , " the IDF said.aThis process continued in the second half of the 1990s and the beginning of the 2000s , in the intensive and joint work of a special investigation team established in the Manpower Directorate , which led to the obtaining of reliable and up-to-date information , which allowed the IDF to formulate an intelligence assessment regarding Baumel 's location . <p> The operation to return Baumel 's remains was led by Col. A. of the Intelligence Branch and had been planned in recent months , Manelis said , adding that the operation culminated a week ago . <p> His body landed in Israel several days ago . <p> " We are not saying where his body was found . This operation proves that we never abandoned soldiers missing from Sultan Yacoub . The families know that we will continue to make every effort to bring their sons home , " Manelis said . <p> According to the military , the families of other missing IDF soldiers -- including Israel Air Force navigator Ron Arad , who has been missing in Lebanon since 1986 , and Hadar Goldin and Oron Shaul , who have been missing in Gaza since Operation Protective Edge in the 2014 war -- were also told that Baumel 's remains had been returned . <p> " Chief of Staff Lt.-Gen . Aviv Kochavi , and IDF commanders and soldiers embrace all the families , including the Baumel , Feldman and Katz families , in these moments , " the military said.Baumel will be buried Thursday , April 4 at 7 p.m. at Mount Herzl Military Cemetery in Jerusalem . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31528646 <h> " There is a reasonable basis to proceed with an investigation into the situation in Palestine , pursuant to Article 53(1) of the Rome Statute , " ICC prosecutor Fatou Bensouda said on Friday . <p> International Criminal Court prosecutor Fatou Bensouda speaks with her deputy , James Stewart , at an ICC hearing in March 2014 <p> ( photo credit : REUTERS ) <p> Pastor John Hagee , the founder of Christian United for Israel ( CUFI ) , released a statement on Monday , calling the International Criminal Court 's ( ICC ) decision to launch an investigation of Israel " absurd . " <p> " The Court is preparing to launch an investigation at the behest of a state that does not exist , into a state over which they have no jurisdiction , " Hagee said in a statement . <p> " If the ICC applies one set of rules to the rest of the world and one set to the Jewish state , that is -- plain and simple -- rank antisemitism . " " For years , the Palestinians have undermined the foundations of international institutions in an effort to demonize Israel , " he continued . " This exercise by the ICC will achieve the same result and serve only to show that the Court is amenable to applying a double standard to the Jewish state , " Hagee added . <p> " The Court has no jurisdiction over Israel or the disputed territories , " added Sandra Parker , Chairwoman of the CUFI Action Fund . " Where does it end ? Who is next ? Are we to expect that one day American Special Forces will be hauled in before the court for killing terrorists on foreign soil ? , " she further mentioned in statements condemning the ICC . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu also reacted on Monday to the ICC decision to probe Israel , condemning the ICC 's action because it " constitutes pure antisemitism . The ICC believes Jews do not have a right to settle in our historic Jewish homeland or to defend ourselves against enemies seeking our annihilation , " Netanyahu tweeted . <p> " As we celebrate Chanukah , the ICC is attempting decrees that are just as antisemitic as those of the ancient Seleucid Empire , " Netanyahu added . <p> The ICC prosecutor Fatou Bensouda said on Friday that she believes Israel and the Palestinians have committed war crimes , leading to her plan to open an investigation into the matter . <p> " There is a reasonable basis to proceed with an investigation into the situation in Palestine , pursuant to Article 53(1) of the Rome Statute , " Bensouda said on Friday , in a statement that she published on the ICC website . <p> " I am convinced that ( i ) war crimes have been or are being committed in the West Bank , including East Jerusalem , and the Gaza Strip ( " Gaza " ) " and that " potential cases arising from the situation would be admissible , " Benousda wrote in the statement . <p> " There are no substantial reasons to believe that an investigation would not serve the interests of justice , " Bensouda wrote from the court 's offices at The Hague in the Netherlands . <p> Bensouda 's statement ended four years of speculation as to whether or not the ICC would dismiss the Palestinian Authority 's pursuit of a war crimes suit against Israelis . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31534347 <h> Photos of the week : Australian bushfires and Kazakhstan plane crash <p> Dec 28 , 2019 19:58 IST <p> / <h> NSW Rural Fire Service crew fight the Gospers Mountain Fire as it impacts a property at Bilpin , New South Wales , Australia . Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Sunday apologised for taking a family vacation in Hawaii as deadly bushfires raged across several states , destroying homes and claiming the lives of two volunteer firefighters . ( Dan Himbrechts / AP ) <p> / <h> A " Ring of Fire " annular solar eclipse is seen during the early hours on Jabal Arba ( Four Mountains ) in Hofuf , Eastern Province of Saudi Arabia . ( Hamad I Mohammed / REUTERS ) <h> Nurses carry a person who was wounded during a car bombing attack , at the Madina Hospital in Mogadishu , Somalia . A massive car bomb exploded in a busy area of Mogadishu on December 28 leaving at least 76 people dead , many of them university students . ( Abdirazak Hussein Farah / AFP ) <p> / <h> Rescuers work at the site of a passenger plane crash outside Almaty . At least 12 people died when a passenger plane carrying 100 people crashed into a house shortly after takeoff from Kazakhstan 's largest city . ( AFP ) <p> / <h> A Palestinian protester uses a sling to hurl stones at Israeli troops at the Israel-Gaza border fence , east of Rafah in the southern Gaza Strip . Hundreds of Palestinians took part in protests along the Gaza-Israel border on December 27 , the last of the Hamas-backed demonstrations until March . ( Said Khatib / AFP ) <p> / <h> A woman casts her ballot at a polling station during the presidential election in Zagreb , Croatia . ( Marko Djurica / REUTERS ) <p> / <h> A wolf bites a wolfhound as it is attacked by dogs during a hunting contest outside Almaty , Kazakhstan . ( Pavel Mikheyev / REUTERS ) <p> / <h> Yemenis attend a wedding ceremony in the old city of Sanaa . ( Mohammed Huwais / AFP ) <p> / <h> Iraqi Christians gather around a fire as they attend a mass on Christmas Eve at the Grand Immaculate Church in al-Hamdaniya , near Mosul , Iraq . ( Abdullah Rashid / REUTERS ) <p> / <h> Firefighters walk into the scene of a fire in Valparaiso , Chile . More than 245 homes were destroyed and 700 people left destitute after a forest fire tore through the Chilean seaside city of Valparaiso on Christmas Eve . ( Rodrigo Garrido / REUTERS ) <p> / <h> A runner dressed as Santa Claus walks through the forest while joining the annual ' Roast Goose Digestion Run ' aiming to burn the calories after holiday celebrations in Berlin , Germany . ( Michele Tantussi / REUTERS ) <p> / <h> Reggie the dog is rescued with a boat from flooding following heavy rain at the Little Venice Country Park and Marina in Maidstone , southeast of London , England . ( Ben Stansall / AFP ) <p> / <h> Riot police officers detain a striking train worker outside the the Gare de Lyon train station in Paris , France , on December 23 . A wildcat protest comes on Day 19 of nationwide strike over the government 's plans to raise the retirement age to 64 . ( Francois Mori / AFP ) <p> / <h> Visitors stand in front of a cave in Lhoong , Aceh province , Indonesia . The cave is believed to be about 7,400 years old and holds deposits of previous tsunamis . ( Chaideer Mahyuddin / AFP ) <p> / <h> A participant kisses the image of Lieutenant General Ahmed Gaed Salah on a banner as people gather outside the Palace of the People during the funeral of the late Algeria 's military chief in Algiers , Algeria . ( Ramzi Boudina / REUTERS ) <p> / <h> Pope Francis and Suor Antonietta Collacchi , director of the Santa Marta dispensary , look at a performer on stilts during an audience for children and families of the Santa Marta dispensary , at Paul-VI hall , in the Vatican . ( Vincenzo Pinto / AFP ) <h> Mehrban Akhtar , 20 , blindfolded and buried up to his neck in sand during a solar eclipse , is pictured along Clifton beach in Karachi , Pakistan . Many Pakistanis believe that burying people with disabilities in sand during solar eclipse would bring healing to their bodies . ( Akhtar Soomro / REUTERS ) 
@@31535749 <p> By signing up you agree to receive email newsletters or alerts from POLITICO . You can unsubscribe at any time . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply . <h> Trump bad economic timing ? <p> Editor 's Note : This edition of Morning Money is published weekdays at 8 a.m . POLITICO Pro Financial Services subscribers hold exclusive early access to the newsletter each morning at 5:15 a.m . To learn more about POLITICO Pro 's comprehensive policy intelligence coverage , policy tools and services , click here . <h> Quick Fix <p> Trump 's bad economic timing ? -- I write on POLITICO this morning about the economic expansion , which at the end of the week will become the longest on record , an occasion likely to elicit bragging from the White House . But it will also highlight a major risk for President Donald Trump . <p> Story Continued Below <p> Signs of a slowdown are mounting with weaker job growth , reduced manufacturing activity and a nervous Federal Reserve hinting at slashing interest rates -- suggesting that Trump could suffer from terrible economic timing . <p> Trump may avoid running for reelection in an official recession , especially if he gets his much desired rate cuts from the Fed . But there is a good chance he 'll be seeking a second term with the economy slowing <p> Moody 's Mark Zandi tells me : " The economy has been a tailwind for him , but by Election Day next year it will at best no longer be blowing . And there is a reasonable probability that he will be facing an economic headwind for reelection with growth slowing to the point that unemployment is starting to rise next year ... " <p> Much depends on China -- Trump heads for Osaka , Japan and the G-20 meeting at the end of the week , where he will meet with Chinese President Xi Jinping . No trade deal is expected but senior White House officials hope Xi and Trump get along and set up a framework for fresh talks . A total failure would obviously be rough for markets . And total trade war would be crushing for the economy . ( More below ) . <h> Driving the Day <p> DRIVING THE WEEK -- Biggest moments come Friday and Saturday with the G-20 summit ... The giant field of Democratic candidates engage in their first debate , a two-day affair Wednesday and Thursday evenings in Miami ... Trump leaves for Japan on Thursday ... House Financial Services has a hearing Tuesday at 10:00 a.m. on debt collection practices ... Senate Banking has a hearing on Tuesday at 10:00 a.m. on Fannie and Freddie ... <p> Fed Chair Jerome Powell speaks at 1p.m . Tuesday at a Council on Foreign Relations event ... House Financial Services subcommittee has a hearing on Tuesday at 2:00 p.m. on fintech ... Senate Banking has a hearing Thursday at 10:00 a.m. on the Ex-Im bank <p> GO DEEP ON THE ISSUES -- POLITICO has a very cool and comprehensive new tool tracking all the Democratic presidential candidates positions on key issues . You can drill down on their views on the economy and financial services here . <p> CHINA DEAL WO N'T FIX EVERYTHING -- Deutsche Bank 's Torsten Slok : " Even if we get some agreement at the G20 meeting we may underestimate the damage already done to capex planning and corporate sentiment by the trade war because the global supply chain is much more integrated than we think ... <p> " The 2018 corporate tax cut is running out of steam and the positive effects on growth are getting smaller and smaller ... The rise in delinquency rates on consumer loans and associated increase in interest rates on credit cards and auto loans will begin to weigh on consumer spending " <p> TRUMP ON POWELL -- Trump on Powell to NBC 's Chuck Todd : " I did n't ever threaten to demote him . I 'd be able to do that if I wanted , but I have n't suggested that . ... I have the right to do that , but I have n't said that " <p> " Obama had someone that kept the rates very low . I had somebody that raised the rates very rapidly -- too much . He made a mistake , that 's been proven . " <p> MM SIDEBAR -- The story was n't that Trump said he 'd demote Powell . It 's that the White House looked into the legality of such of a move , which it did . The White House also concluded Trump has no legal authority to demote Powell , which he does n't . But Trump does n't care . <p> WHITE HOUSE ROLLS OUT MIDEAST ECON PLAN -- Our Gabby Orr : " The White House on Saturday released the first of a two-part Middle East peace plan , outlining the Trump administration 's ' economic vision ' for Palestinian territories and neighboring Arab countries ahead of a diplomatic conference in Bahrain next week helmed by senior adviser Jared Kushner . <p> " The long-awaited proposal calls for a $50 billion investment in Palestinian territories along the West Bank and Gaza from private companies and donor countries to jumpstart local economies and boost conditions in Jordan , Egypt and Lebanon , which would each receive a portion of the funds . " <p> DEM DONORS ' TOP CHOICES -- CNBC 's Brian Schwartz : " Democratic donors from across the country have been holding fundraising events and meetings for months trying to figure out who their preferred candidate is to take on ... Trump . <p> " While they have n't decided on a favorite , many financiers have put their resources behind former Vice President Joe Biden , Sen. Kamala Harris of California and South Bend , Indiana , Mayor Pete Buttigieg . " <p> DEMS TO CHALLENGE EX-IM DEAL -- Our Zachary Warmbrodt : " House Democrats are poised to challenge a deal negotiated by Rep. Maxine Waters that would impose new restrictions on the Export-Import Bank , the first show of resistance among members of the Financial Services Committee since she became chairwoman in January . <p> " The new legislation that the California Democrat drafted with the finance panel 's top Republican , Rep. Patrick McHenry ( R-N.C. ) , would renew the agency 's operations for seven years and expand its capacity to offer loan guarantees to foreign buyers of U.S. exports . Without action , the bank 's charter would expire at the end of September . " <h> Markets <p> BOND-YIELD PLUNGE CONFOUNDS GLOBAL ECONOMY -- WSJ 's Patricia Kowsmann , Avantika Chilkoti and Sam Goldfarb : " The collapse in bond yields since this spring has been stark , swift and global , upending expectations that the world 's economy would be strong enough to support a return to normal monetary policy after years of easy money . <p> " The drop says investors expect a recession may be looming , and that central banks will have to step in with lower rates to try to forestall it . Ten-year bond yields last week fell to record lows in Germany and France and below 2 percent in the U.S. for the first time since 2016 . " <p> ICYMI : S&amp;P 500 NOTCHED ANOTHER SOLID WEEK -- AP 's Alex Veiga : " Wall Street finished a milestone-setting week on a downbeat note Friday after a late flurry of selling nudged stocks lower , ending the market 's four-day winning streak . Even with the modest losses the market delivered its third straight weekly gain , with the benchmark S&amp;P 500 index hovering just below its record high close from a day earlier <p> IS FACEBOOK 'S LIBRA A LICENSE TO PRINT MONEY ? -- WSJ 's James Mackintosh : " Buy Facebook 's Libra and you are literally giving the social media giant a license to print money , in the form of its new cryptocurrency . A bunch of big companies have agreed to pony up $10 million each to take part , and it is easy to see why : On some reasonable-sounding assumptions about its takeup , it could be insanely profitable in real money , too . Yet , delve into the plans and Libra looks a lot less appealing to users than Facebook 's hype suggests . <p> " The profits would come from interest on the reserve backing Libra , designed to keep Libra 's value stable . All interest is diverted to the companies backing Libra 's governing body , while holders of Libra itself earn nothing -- giving the founders profits akin to the seigniorage made by central banks . " <p> Speaking of cryptocurrency -- Bloomberg 's Eric Lam , Vildana Hajric and Joanna Ossinger : " Bitcoin traded above $11,000 for the first time in 15 months , recouping more than half of the parabolic increase that captured the attention of mainstream investors before the cryptocurrency bubble burst last year . <p> " ' The bounce-back of Bitcoin has been fairly extraordinary , ' said George McDonaugh , chief executive and co-founder of London-based blockchain and cryptocurrency investment firm KR1 Plc . ' Money did n't leave the asset behind , it just sat on the sidelines waiting to get back in . ' " <h> For Your Radar <p> TRANSITIONS -- Russell Stokes is joining Mars , Incorporated as chief strategy officer . He previously was head of strategy and mergers &amp; acquisitions at Whirlpool Corporation , and a member of Whirlpool 's Executive Committee and is also a Boston Consulting Group alum . <p> WEEKEND WEDDING -- " Bryana Turner , Robert Jackson Jr . " -- N.Y . Times : " Mrs. Jackson , 31 , is the founder and principal of Turner Divorce Mediation ... Mr. Jackson , 42 , is a commissioner on the United States Securities and Exchange Commission in Washington . <p> " He is currently on public service leave from the faculty of the N.Y.U. School of Law , where he specializes in corporate law and financial regulation . He previously served in the Obama administration as a counselor to senior Treasury Department officials during the financial crisis . " <h> Follow Us <h> About The Author : Ben White <p> Ben White is POLITICO Pro 's chief economic correspondent and author of the " Morning Money " column covering the nexus of finance and public policy . <p> Prior to joining POLITICO in the fall of 2009 , Mr. White served as a Wall Street reporter for the New York Times , where he shared a Society of Business Editors and Writers award for breaking news coverage of the financial crisis . <p> From 2005 to 2007 , White was Wall Street correspondent and U.S. Banking Editor at the Financial Times . <p> White worked at the Washington Post for nine years before joining the FT . He served as national political researcher and research assistant to columnist David S. Broder and later as Wall Street correspondent . <p> White , a 1994 graduate of Kenyon College , has two sons and lives in New York City . <h> About The Author : Aubree Eliza Weaver <p> Aubree Eliza Weaver is a deputy production director for POLITICO Pro , having previously served as a senior web producer . Aubree also co-authors Morning Money , POLITICO 's daily morning newsletter on Washington and Wall Street . <p> She graduated from Le Moyne College in her hometown of Syracuse , N.Y. , where she was the editor-in-chief of the school 's newspaper , The Dolphin . As a student , she interned with Time Warner Cable 's Syracuse affiliate , YNN , as a news broadcast intern . Aubree moved to D.C. upon graduating in 2013 to work as a summer program adviser for the Institute on Political Journalism . She was a student in the program in the summer of 2011 , when she first fell in love with D.C. 
@@82476542 <p> Our journalists work hard to inform by bringing you the news that matters - which is often about how the world is . But we think the most important part of our mission is to inspire -- and so we work hard to bring you the voices of visionaries who dream about how the world should be . Independent journalism and democracy itself have never been more needed yet more fragile and at risk than now . Please -- no amount is too large or too small -- pitch in to support our people-powered model and help Common Dreams start 2020 at full strength . Thank you . -- Craig Brown , Co-founder <p> The Advisory Committee on Corporate Responsibility in Investment Policies voted 6-2-1 in favor of divestment . <p> WASHINGTON - On December 2nd , 2019 , the Advisory Committee on Corporate Responsibility in Investment Policies ( ACCRIP ) at Brown University voted in favor of divestment from companies " facilitating human rights violations in Palestine . " The committee voted six in favor , with two alumni voting no , and one abstaining from the vote . <p> The vote comes after eight months of deliberation , starting in April 2019 , when 69% of student voters in a Brown undergraduate referendum voted in favor of the same motion . Following a statement by the Brown University president criticizing the referendum , over 100 faculty members authored a letter in favor of the student referendum . Since then , members of the Brown Divest student coalition have presented their case to ACCRIP on multiple occasions , as have Brown Students for Israel . Brown Divest is a coalition of student groups including Jewish Voice for Peace and Students for Justice in Palestine , as well as other groups . <p> Brown Divest states : " We are elated that the University committee responsible for divestment has finally joined the calls for divestment from human rights violations in Palestine . Today , ACCRIP made Brown the first Ivy League University to officially call for divestment from companies that are facilitating the Occupation and its human rights abuses in the West Bank and Gaza . We look forward to other universities joining the movement for dignity and human rights for Palestinians . <p> " Going forward , the Brown community expects the Brown Corporation to divest from companies facilitating human rights violations in Palestine , as demanded by Brown students , who voted for the University to divest , as has ACCRIP , the committee responsible for recommending University divestment . " <p> One member of Brown University Divest said : " As a Palestinian student at Brown , I ca n't feel comfortable on this campus knowing that my university is literally profiting off the suffering of my family . When Brown invests in companies that provide materials that help demolish their houses and promote an apartheid regime against them , I can not be silent about this . I can not be complicit in the suffering of my very own family . " <p> SCROLL TO CONTINUE WITH CONTENT <h> Progressive independent media does n't exist without support from its readers . <p> There 's no way around it . No ads . No billionaires . Just the people who believe in this mission and our work . <p> Please support Common Dreams today : <p> Tal Frieden , another member of Jewish Voice for Peace and Brown University Divest , said : " As Jews , as US citizens , as Brown students , and as people of conscience , it is our responsibility to speak up for Palestinian human rights and to denounce complicity in Palestinian suffering . We will continue to hold the University accountable to this vote . " <p> Background : <p> On December 2nd , nine members of ACCRIP met at Brown University and heard presentations from faculty opposed to divestment , as well as those in favor . After the presentations , a motion was put forth to vote on whether the Israeli occupation of Palestinian territories constitutes social harm . Seven members voted yes , while two alumni abstained . At the end of the meeting , members of the committee motioned to vote on the following language : <p> " We recommend that the Brown Corporation exclude from Brown 's direct investments , and require Brown 's separate account investment managers to exclude from their direct investments , companies identified as facilitating human rights violations in Palestine . In addition , the Investment Office will share with all investment managers the University 's desire to adhere to this investment philosophy . We recommend that the Corporation and Brown 's separate account investment managers maintain the withdrawal of investments from said companies until they cease to engage in social harm " <p> For the final vote on divestment , six members voted in favor , two opposed , and one abstained . Companies that have been identified for divestment based on their involvement in social harm in Palestine include Caterpillar , Hewlett-Packard , Oaktree Capital Management , AB Volvo , Motorola , Boeing , Northrop Grumman , Lockheed Martin , Raytheon , United Technologies , and G4S . <p> ### <h> This is the world we live in . This is the world we cover . <p> Because of people like you , another world is possible . There are many battles to be won , but we will battle them together -- all of us . Common Dreams is not your normal news site . We do n't survive on clicks . We do n't want advertising dollars . We want the world to be a better place . But we ca n't do it alone . It does n't work that way . We need you . If you can help today -- because every gift of every size matters -- please do . Without Your Support We Wo n't Exist . <p> Please select a donation method : <p> Jewish Voice for Peace members are inspired by Jewish tradition to work together for peace , social justice , equality , human rights , respect for international law , and a U.S. foreign policy based on these ideals . <p> JVP opposes anti-Jewish , anti-Muslim , and anti-Arab bigotry and oppression . JVP seeks an end to the Israeli occupation of the West Bank , Gaza Strip , and East Jerusalem ; security and self-determination for Israelis and Palestinians ; a just solution for Palestinian refugees based on principles established in international law ; an end to violence against civilians ; and peace and justice for all peoples of the Middle East . <h> Further <p> In this ostensible season of joy , Banksy , elusive master of street art , just devised two tender but searing pieces to urge us to do justice and love mercy , even in improbable places . Amidst widespread homelessness in the U.K. , he offered rough sleepers the chance to soar in their dreams . In Palestine , he created the Scar of Bethlehem , a bullet-riddled nativity scene hard by the Apartheid Wall to honor all those living less than celebratory lives . His vision : Joy to the world , all of it . <h> Common Dreams brings you the news that matters . <h> Sign up for Newsletter <h> Connect With Us <h> Support our common dreams . <h> Can We Count on Your Help Today ? <p> Common Dreams is a small nonprofit with a big mission . Every day of the week , we publish the most important breaking news &amp; views for the progressive community . To remain an independent news source , we do not advertise , sell subscriptions or accept corporate contributions . Instead , we rely on readers like you , to provide the " people power " that fuels our work . Please help keep Common Dreams alive by making a contribution . Thank you . - Craig Brown , Co-founder <p> Support us this December --Join the small group of generous readers who donate , keeping Common Dreams free for millions of people each year . Every donation -- large or small -- helps us bring you the news that matters . <p> Support us this December --Join the small group of generous readers who donate , keeping Common Dreams free for millions of people each year . Every donation -- large or small -- helps us bring you the news that matters . 
@@82517748 <h> " The complicated political situation in Israel cast a heavy shadow on the interests of the Zionist prisoners and their families . " <p> By JERUSALEM POST STAFF <p> DECEMBER 5 , 2019 09:08 <p> Protest outside the Tel Aviv Museum of Art calling for the release of Avera Mengistu , held in Gaza by Hamas for five years . The protster is holding a sign calling for the release of Mengistu and wearing a shirt in his support . <p> ( photo credit : AVRAHAM SASSONI ) <p> Musa Dudin , a senior Hamas official in charge of the " prisoner portfolio " in the terror movement , revealed on Thursday that Egypt , Qatar , Turkey , Sweden and Germany were involved in an attempt to mediate a prisoners swap between Israel and Gaza lately , according to Channel 12 . <p> " These attempts did not bear fruit because of the inconsistency of the occupation , " Dudin claimed . He blamed the failure of the initiative on Israel 's policy to continue and arrest Palestinians who were previously arrested . <p> " It is impossible to make a new deal until the occupation releases the prisoners it arrested again , the rest of the terms will work out through indirect negotiations , " He said and added that " The complicated political situation in Israel cast a heavy shadow on the interests of the Zionist prisoners and their families . " <p> Dudin also praised the Palestinians arrested in Israel and their determination in being released soon : " The next few days will prove that resistance is very serious in the pursuit of achieving this sacred and great goal . " <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@82557445 <h> Bennett warns IDF will act against Gazan terror groups at right time <h> DM Bennett : Our enemies have become accustomed to firing rockets with no consequences <p> Iron Dome anti-missile system fires interception missiles as rockets are launched from Gaza towards Israel as seen from the city of Ashkelon , Israel Ashkelon November 1 , 2019 <p> ( photo credit : REUTERS/ AMIR COHEN TPX IMAGES OF THE DAY ) <p> Israel 's Defense Minister Naftali Bennett warned terror groups in the Gaza Strip that the IDF will act at the right time in the blockaded coastal enclave during a visit to southern Israel after a night of rocket fire . <p> We need to move from a defensive approach to an attacking approach . Whatever we 'll do - we 'll do it at the right time - in the right way and with great power . No one will drag us to it . A good ruse is served cold , not when the blood is boiling and the other side waits of it . " he said during a visit to the college town of Sderot on Sunday night . <p> Bennett visited the city and met with the heads of local authorities as well as residents of Sderot . <p> " Our enemies have become accustomed to firing towards the State of Israel . We need to change that , " he said . " All our enemies , from Iran through Hezbollah to ISIS in Sinai , want to break us . But do n't get confused , because we win . The people of Israel will win . " <p> His visit was also attended by Gaza Division commander Brig. -Gen . Eliezer Toledano and other security officials hours after Israeli Air Force jets carried out a series of retaliatory airstrikes against Hamas targets in Gaza after three rockets were fired from the Hamas control enclave toward southern Israel on Friday . <p> According to the IDF Spokesperson 's Unit , IAF jets and helicopters struck several terror targets , including a Hamas terrorist camp , including its warehouses , offices and security posts . In addition , a military position of the naval force of Hamas in the northern Gaza Strip was struck and destroyed . <p> " Hamas is responsible for what is happening in and out of the Gaza Strip , and it will bear the consequences for actions against Israeli citizens , " the military said in a statement . <p> Meanwhile , Hamas called the overnight strikes as a " dangerous step " and that Israel " will bear the consequences of its actions . " <p> " Israel 's insistence to continue the escalation in Gaza by bombing the resistance is a dangerous step that can not be taken lightly , " the ruling group said in a statement . " Israel must bear the consequences . " <p> On Sunday morning , Bennett said that Israel 's enemies need to " understand one simple thing - not to fire rockets towards the State of Israel , and whoever fires will pay a price , " he said the Makor Rishon conference . " We have allowed our enemies to get accustomed that it is okay . We have to change the equation , it takes time , but our enemies will realize that they can not shoot at Jews anymore . " <p> Incoming rocket sirens were activated at around 9 p.m. in Sderot and surrounding communities bordering the northern part of the blockaded coastal enclave . According to the Israeli military , all of the rockets were intercepted by the Iron Dome missile defense system . <p> Magen David Adom spokesman Zaki Heller reported that paramedics and EMTs treated a 40-year-old woman and her daughter , 10 , and a 27-year-old male . All were lightly injured . Another two people were treated by MDA for stress symptoms . <p> According to KAN Radio , IAF aircraft were scrambled to the northern Strip three times on Saturday following reports of suspicious activity near the border , but returned to base after checking that there had been no infiltration into Israel . <p> Also on Saturday , the IDF said troops arrested two unarmed Gazans who crossed the border fence in southern Israel . They were arrested and taken in for questioning . <p> The rockets come a day after Hamas resumed the " March of Return " protests after a three-week break following Operation Black Belt between the IDF and Palestinian Islamic Jihad , which saw more than 400 rockets fired toward southern and central Israel , including Tel Aviv . <p> On Friday , an estimated 4,000 Gazans took part in the protests , with hundreds rioting and throwing explosive devices and rocks at IDF troops deployed at the fence , who responded with riot dispersal means . The Hamas-run Gaza Health Ministry said that 27 Palestinians were injured . <p> Also on Friday , IDF Chief of Staff Lt.-Gen . Aviv Kochavi met with the mayors of communities bordering the Gaza Strip and said that following the last round of violence , in which Hamas did not fire one rocket , there is a chance to negotiate a long-term ceasefire with the terrorist organization . <p> " The IDF 's actions in ' Black Belt ' succeeded due to the resilience of residents of the Gaza periphery and your leadership , and it allows us a special opportunity to create a different reality in the region , " Kochavi said . <p> Kochavi was joined by the head of the Southern Command , Maj.-Gen . Herzi Halevi , and the Gaza division commander Brig. -Gen . Eliezer Toledano . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@82561247 <p> Here 's the latest for Monday December 30th : U.S. announces military strikes in Iraq and Syria ; North Korea 's Kim Jong Un calls for unspecified offensive ; Police : Armed parishioners kill Texas church gunman ; New York stabbing suspect pleads not guilty . <p> A man accused of attacking a Hannukah celebration in New York state pleaded not guilty to five counts of attempted murder and one count of burglary . Grafton E. Thomas was arrested within two hours of the attack . ( Dec. 30 ) <p> Japan has revised a roadmap for the tsunami-wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant cleanup , further delaying the removal of thousands of spent fuel units that remain in cooling pools since the 2011 disaster . ( Dec. 27 ) <p> Israel 's prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu was rushed off the stage of an election rally on Wednesday after sirens rang out , warning of a rocket attack from the Gaza Strip . Authorities confirmed that a defensive missile intercepted the rocket . ( Dec. 26 ) <p> Three adults were killed in an apparent murder-suicide on Christmas Eve while four young children were inside the home , authorities in Lakeland , Florida said . The children were safely removed from the home . ( Dec. 25 ) 
@@82700448 <p> A man accused of attacking a Hannukah celebration in New York state pleaded not guilty to five counts of attempted murder and one count of burglary . Grafton E. Thomas was arrested within two hours of the attack . ( Dec. 30 ) <p> An Iranian-backed militia says the death toll from U.S. military strikes in Iraq and Syria against its fighters had risen to 25 , and vowed to exact revenge . The Associated Press viewed the aftermath of airstrikes in western Iraq . ( Dec. 30 ) <p> Japan has revised a roadmap for the tsunami-wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant cleanup , further delaying the removal of thousands of spent fuel units that remain in cooling pools since the 2011 disaster . ( Dec. 27 ) <p> Israel 's prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu was rushed off the stage of an election rally on Wednesday after sirens rang out , warning of a rocket attack from the Gaza Strip . Authorities confirmed that a defensive missile intercepted the rocket . ( Dec. 26 ) <p> Three adults were killed in an apparent murder-suicide on Christmas Eve while four young children were inside the home , authorities in Lakeland , Florida said . The children were safely removed from the home . ( Dec. 25 ) 
@@82787542 <p> Here 's the latest for Monday December 30th : U.S. announces military strikes in Iraq and Syria ; North Korea 's Kim Jong Un calls for unspecified offensive ; Police : Armed parishioners kill Texas church gunman ; New York stabbing suspect pleads not guilty . <p> A man accused of attacking a Hannukah celebration in New York state pleaded not guilty to five counts of attempted murder and one count of burglary . Grafton E. Thomas was arrested within two hours of the attack . ( Dec. 30 ) <p> Japan has revised a roadmap for the tsunami-wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant cleanup , further delaying the removal of thousands of spent fuel units that remain in cooling pools since the 2011 disaster . ( Dec. 27 ) <p> Israel 's prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu was rushed off the stage of an election rally on Wednesday after sirens rang out , warning of a rocket attack from the Gaza Strip . Authorities confirmed that a defensive missile intercepted the rocket . ( Dec. 26 ) <p> Three adults were killed in an apparent murder-suicide on Christmas Eve while four young children were inside the home , authorities in Lakeland , Florida said . The children were safely removed from the home . ( Dec. 25 ) 
@@82818249 <h> Posted ! <h> Join the Conversation <h> Comments <p> Welcome to our new and improved comments , which are for subscribers only . This is a test to see whether we can improve the experience for you . You do not need a Facebook profile to participate . <p> You will need to register before adding a comment . Typed comments will be lost if you are not logged in . <p> Please be polite . It 's OK to disagree with someone 's ideas , but personal attacks , insults , threats , hate speech , advocating violence and other violations can result in a ban . If you see comments in violation of our community guidelines , please report them . <p> PATERSON , N.J. -- Carrying a broom and a dust pan , Ralph Lee Jr . walked down the hallway of a mental health treatment facility in Paramus , scanning the floor for litter , stopping every few steps to sweep something up . <p> During much of his time in prison , Lee had worked as a janitor , cleaning the tiers where he and the other inmates lived . He said he has n't given much thought to the irony that he now does the same work as a free man as he did as a prisoner of the state . <p> " Having this job , that 's what I needed , " Lee said . " When this opportunity opened up , I was so happy . " <h> Struggles after release <p> Lee struggled when he was first released from prison in November 2017 . At the time , the prosecutors were planning to conduct a new trial . Lee and his co-defendant , Eric Kelley , were free on bail , but had to wear an electronic monitoring bracelet and be home by curfew . <p> Ralph Lee Jr . was exonerated after spending 24 years in prison for being involved in a Paterson murder . The Innocence Project took Lee 's case and found that the DNA sample , taken at the scene , did not belong to Lee . He was eventually freed and now works as a janitor at CarePlus Workforce Solutions . ( Photo : Chris Pedota , NorthJersey.com-USA Today Network ) <p> Lee had no money and his doctor said he should n't get a job for a year because of the anxiety problems he developed while in prison . He moved in with his son , Quron , who was just 5 years old when Lee 's prison sentence began . Lee lived off the $150 a month he received from welfare . <p> To make things more difficult , the world had changed while Lee was incarcerated . He became something of a 21st century Rip Van Winkle . <p> Lee thought he could get a TV and just plug it in -- that 's how he learned about cable . When Lee went to prison , it seemed only rich people had cellphones , which they operated from their cars . Now , suddenly , everybody walking down the street had a cellphone . So Lee got one of the " flip " models . Friends and family started sending him text messages . <p> " I did n't know how to read it or nothing , " Lee said . <p> Things started improving for Lee in April 2018 when authorities decided not to conduct a retrial and dropped the murder case against him and Kelley . In time , Lee was able to get his own one-bedroom apartment in Paterson with the help of a Section 8 housing voucher . <p> " It was kind of empty , " Lee said of his lack of furnishings when he first moved in . <p> Lee called his transition from 24 years in prison " a process , " saying , " It 's not easy . " <p> But the soft-spoken , bearded man said he does n't carry any bitterness over his wrongful conviction . <p> " Being angry was n't going to get me nowhere , " he said . <h> Finding a new job -- and a new identity <p> Eventually , the outpatient facility where Lee was getting mental health counseling for his anxiety referred him to CarePlus WorkForce Solutions , which provides employment for people with disabilities . He started work Nov. 17 , 2018 . His boss praised his work ethic and attitude . <p> " He 's highly respected here , " said Brigitte Johnson , executive director of CarePlus Workforce Solutions , adding that he 's popular among the facility 's staff . " They all know his name . They know he 's reliable . " <p> Sweeping the hallway where he works as a janitor is Ralph Lee Jr . who was exonerated after spending 24 years in prison for being involved in a Paterson murder . The Innocence Project took Lee 's case and found that the DNA sample , taken at the scene , did not belong to Lee . He was eventually freed and now works as a janitor at CarePlus Workforce Solutions . ( Photo : Chris Pedota , NorthJersey.com-USA Today Network ) <p> Lee starts his shift at 9 a.m. by cleaning the six bathrooms at the facility . Often , Lee gets pulled away from the bathrooms to clean up spills and accidents common in a mental health facility , said Johnson . <p> His boss is particularly impressed by the way Lee cleans the facility 's glass doors . <p> " When I see Ralph 's work , I do n't want to mess it up , " Johnson said . <h> Lawsuits pending <p> Lee said he rarely sees Kelley , his co-defendant . <p> The two men had separate trials and spent most of their sentences in different prisons . <p> " He did his time , I did mine , " Lee said . <p> Back in September , the two men filed federal civil rights lawsuits against the Paterson police officers -- now all retired or dead -- who handled the investigation that resulted in their convictions . <p> The complaint accuses the officers of coercing confessions from Lee and Kelley and hiding exculpatory evidence in order to make arrests in a high-profile homicide -- the 1993 fatal stabbing of Tito Dante Merino , a 22-year-old Peruvian immigrant who was working at his family 's video store to pay his way through college . <p> The lawsuits say that even though initial witness statements indicated the killing was committed by a single man , the Paterson police focused their probe on Lee and Kelley after getting an anonymous tip . During hours of interrogation , Lee and Kelley repeatedly proclaimed their innocence , the lawsuits said . <p> One of the detectives punched Lee during the questioning , the lawsuits say . Another allegedly struck Kelley , the complaint says . <p> The two suspects were " especially susceptible to coercive tactics " because they had " serious cognitive limitations , " and they eventually signed confessions , the lawsuits say . The detectives allegedly told the two men details of the crime that had not been made public in order to make their confessions more credible , the lawsuits say . <p> The two men are seeking as much as $48 million in the lawsuits , which are being handled by some of the same lawyers who worked to free Lee and Kelley . The Innocence Project and Centurion Ministries , two non-profits that work to free inmates they believe were wrongly convicted , represented Lee and Kelley in getting their convictions dismissed . <p> The case prompted New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal last year to order a review of the Passaic County Prosecutor 's Office 's case , ultimately resulting in recommendations for changes in the way county prosecutors ' office handle defendants ' requests for DNA retesting . <p> Grewal said the review found " no evidence of prosecutorial misconduct , bad faith litigation tactics , or violations of law . " But the review said that some parts of the case should have been handled differently . The Attorney General has not revealed exactly what those mistakes were . <p> " The image and interest of justice require that all sworn law enforcement officers -- police and prosecutors alike -- treat the long saga endured by Eric Kelley and Ralph Lee as instructive and cautionary , " Grewal said in releasing his recommendations last year . <p> Lee , meanwhile , said he does n't spend much time thinking about his wrongful conviction or the people who put him in prison . He said he tries to keep things simple and " live one day at a time . " <p> " Every day , you 've got to be thankful , " Lee said . " Being free -- there 's nothing else you can put on it , being free and being able to do what you want to do . " <p> A Palestinian woman applies henneh herbal tattoo on the hand of a young girl during an exhibition of local traditional crafts , made by Palestinian women in Gaza City on Dec. 30 , 2019 . MOHAMMED ABED , AFP via Getty Images <p> A Country Fire Authority ( CFA ) firefighter at work at Clovemont Way in Bundoora , Melbourne , Australia on Dec. 30 , 2019 . According to local media reports , thousands of residents and tourists were forced to evacuate in the state of Victoria as soaring temperatures and winds fanned several bushfires around the state . JULIAN SMITH , EPA-EFE <p> Mourners follow a hearse as it leaves a memorial service for White Island volcano victims Anthony , Elizabeth and Winona Langford , at Marist College North Shore auditorium in Sydney , Australia on Dec. 30 , 2019 . At least seven people died after the White Island ( Whakaari ) volcano erupted on December 9 , 2019 . BIANCA DE MARCHI , EPA-EFE <p> A man rides motorbike loaded with joss paper products for sale in preparation for the Lunar New Year , or Tet holiday in Dao Tu village , in Bac Ninh , Vietnam on Dec. 30 , 2019 . Vietnamese people often burn joss paper , a papier-mache form of material items such as money , gold , houses , cars during Tet holiday to pray for their ancestors . LUONG THAI LINH , EPA-EFE 
@@82822647 <h> Syrian state media says Israel is firing missiles into Syria <p> Syrian state TV gave no further details but residents of Damascus said explosions could be heard near the capital . State TV said one of the Israeli missiles was shot down near the Damascus suburb of Aqraba . <p> There was also no immediate comment from Israel . <p> The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , an opposition war monitoring group that has activists around the country , said the missile attack targeted Iranian and Syrian military positions near Damascus . <p> There were no immediate reports on casualties . <p> In neighboring Lebanon , Israeli warplanes could be heard flying in the country 's airspace at the time of the airstrikes in Syria . Damascus had said in the past that Israeli warplanes have fired missiles into Syria from Lebanon 's airspace . <p> Last month , Israel said it struck dozens of Iranian targets in Syria in a " wide-scale " operation in response to rocket fire on the Israeli-controlled Golan Heights the day before . <p> Israel has repeatedly struck Iran-linked targets in Syria in recent years and has warned against any permanent Iranian presence on the frontier . <p> Iran has forces based in Syria , Israel 's northern neighbor , and supports Hezbollah militants in Lebanon . <p> In November , Israel killed a senior commander of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad , an Iran-backed group in the Gaza Strip , setting off two days of heavy fighting . A separate airstrike targeted but failed to kill an Islamic Jihad leader in Damascus , underscoring the risk of escalation at various pressure points across the volatile region . 
@@82823848 <h> Israel decides all discussions about ICC issue are confidential <h> The discussions will be held in the security cabinet . A special discussion will be held this afternoon at the Foreign Ministry . <p> Prime Minster and Defense Minister Benjamin Netanyahu speaks to the security cabinet after convening it to discuss Gaza rockets fired at Tel Aviv <p> ( photo credit : ARIEL HERMONI / DEFENSE MINISTRY ) <p> The Israeli government decided to approve a request by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to make all discussions about a recent statement by the International Criminal Court saying that the court wants to investigate Israel for war crimes confidential , according to section 35 of Israel 's Basic Law . <p> Section 35 states that " debates and decisions of the Government and those of the Ministerial committees regarding " certain matters " are secret and their disclosure and publication is prohibited . " <p> The Basic Law allows for the government to implement section 45 on " matters regarding which the Government deems secrecy to be essential to the State , a notification thereof having been declared in an order , for the purposes of this law " and matters " that the Government has decided to keep secret ; the disclosure and publication of such matters is forbidden only to persons who were aware of the decision . " <p> The discussions about the ICC statement will be held within the security cabinet . A special discussion will be held this afternoon at the Foreign Ministry . <p> The ICC intends to open a war crimes investigation into Israeli and Palestinian actions in Gaza , east Jerusalem and the West Bank beginning from June 13 , 2014 . If the case moves to the trial stage , then the court could issue arrest warrants against high-level Israelis and Palestinians . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@82836648 <h> Syrian state media says Israel is firing missiles into Syria <p> Syrian state TV gave no further details but residents of Damascus said explosions could be heard near the capital . State TV said one of the Israeli missiles was shot down near the Damascus suburb of Aqraba . <p> There was also no immediate comment from Israel . <p> The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , an opposition war monitoring group that has activists around the country , said the missile attack targeted Iranian and Syrian military positions near Damascus . <p> There were no immediate reports on casualties . <p> In neighboring Lebanon , Israeli warplanes could be heard flying in the country 's airspace at the time of the airstrikes in Syria . Damascus had said in the past that Israeli warplanes have fired missiles into Syria from Lebanon 's airspace . <p> Last month , Israel said it struck dozens of Iranian targets in Syria in a " wide-scale " operation in response to rocket fire on the Israeli-controlled Golan Heights the day before . <p> Israel has repeatedly struck Iran-linked targets in Syria in recent years and has warned against any permanent Iranian presence on the frontier . <p> Iran has forces based in Syria , Israel 's northern neighbor , and supports Hezbollah militants in Lebanon . <p> In November , Israel killed a senior commander of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad , an Iran-backed group in the Gaza Strip , setting off two days of heavy fighting . A separate airstrike targeted but failed to kill an Islamic Jihad leader in Damascus , underscoring the risk of escalation at various pressure points across the volatile region . 
@@82859441 <h> WATCH : UN Ambassadors Witness Terror Tunnel and Iron Dome ! <h> WATCH : UN Ambassadors Witness Terror Tunnel and Iron Dome ! <h> Related : <p> Israel 's envoy to the UN Danny Danon recently took a delegation of fellow ambassadors to the Gaza border , to see Hamas ' terror infrastructure first hand . <p> UN ambassadors from around the world visited the Gaza belt with Israeli envoy Danny Danon . He showed them an actual Hamas terror tunnel discovered by the IDF before it could be used to harm Israeli civilians . Watch this INCREDIBLE diplomatic achievement for Israel ! <p> The delegation included ambassadors from Guatemala , Paraguay , Poland , Ethiopia , Romania , Ukraine , Estonia , and the Czech Republic , among other nations . Danon also brought the UN delegation to an Iron Dome battery in Netivot . <p> While the UN consistently pursues an anti-Israel agenda , ambassadors from member states are not afraid to confront the truth about Palestinian terror , which threatens Israelis on a daily basis . <h> Keep Israeli Soldiers Warm this Winter - Send Care Packages ! <p> We are honored to thank the young men and women of the IDF who risk their lives every day to defend the citizens of Israel . <p> Join us in sending winter care packages and personal notes of support to Israeli soldiers who are out in the cold all day . 
@@82863537 <h> Posted ! <h> Join the Conversation <h> Comments <p> Welcome to our new and improved comments , which are for subscribers only . This is a test to see whether we can improve the experience for you . You do not need a Facebook profile to participate . <p> You will need to register before adding a comment . Typed comments will be lost if you are not logged in . <p> Please be polite . It 's OK to disagree with someone 's ideas , but personal attacks , insults , threats , hate speech , advocating violence and other violations can result in a ban . If you see comments in violation of our community guidelines , please report them . <p> Hawaii Rep. Tulsi Gabbard is facing pressure from a former governor of her state to resign from Congress over concerns that she can not fully represent her district as she carries out her presidential campaign . <p> Neil Abercrombie , who served as a Democratic governor from 2010-14 , said in a news conference that he left Gabbard a message before speaking publicly about his position . Abercrombie said Gabbard has not attended votes in the House , and cited her previous decision not to seek re-election as a sign she is not fully invested in her position . <p> " If she 's not running for re-election , the incentive , if you will , to represent , literally , the Second District , it kind of disappears , " Abercrombie said . <p> Gabbard has missed over 85% of 146 of House floor votes since October , according to a tracker managed by GovTrack . Hawaii 's other representative , Democrat Ed Case , has been absent for about 2% of votes in the same time period . <p> A spokesperson said in a statement that " Hawai'i is Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard 's home and her heart , " and referenced " major legislative wins " during her term such as work for veterans and native Hawaiians . <p> A Palestinian woman applies henneh herbal tattoo on the hand of a young girl during an exhibition of local traditional crafts , made by Palestinian women in Gaza City on Dec. 30 , 2019 . MOHAMMED ABED , AFP via Getty Images <p> A Country Fire Authority ( CFA ) firefighter at work at Clovemont Way in Bundoora , Melbourne , Australia on Dec. 30 , 2019 . According to local media reports , thousands of residents and tourists were forced to evacuate in the state of Victoria as soaring temperatures and winds fanned several bushfires around the state . JULIAN SMITH , EPA-EFE <p> Mourners follow a hearse as it leaves a memorial service for White Island volcano victims Anthony , Elizabeth and Winona Langford , at Marist College North Shore auditorium in Sydney , Australia on Dec. 30 , 2019 . At least seven people died after the White Island ( Whakaari ) volcano erupted on December 9 , 2019 . BIANCA DE MARCHI , EPA-EFE <p> A man rides motorbike loaded with joss paper products for sale in preparation for the Lunar New Year , or Tet holiday in Dao Tu village , in Bac Ninh , Vietnam on Dec. 30 , 2019 . Vietnamese people often burn joss paper , a papier-mache form of material items such as money , gold , houses , cars during Tet holiday to pray for their ancestors . LUONG THAI LINH , EPA-EFE <h> Interested in this topic ? You may also want to view these photo galleries : <p> " Her pursuit of the highest office in the land has not compromised her and her team 's commitment to serving the people of Hawai ? i in her fourth term in Congress , " said T. Ilihia Gionson , her Hawaii communications director . <p> " It became clear to me that she was missing votes , lots and lots of votes , " Abercrombie said . " And then when she did show up , she did n't vote . She votes ' present . ' " <p> Gabbard has faced backlash from fellow Democrats for being the sole lawmaker in the House to vote " present " on the two recently passed articles of impeachment against President Donald Trump . She explained her decision by saying that she could not " in good conscience " vote either yes or no . The articles passed largely along party lines last week . <p> Abercrombie said that Gabbard 's impeachment vote " had to do with her presidential campaign , it has nothing to do with representing the people of Hawaii . " <p> " When she just showed up and then voted ' present , ' I thought , ' Wait a minute , that 's a step too far , ' " Abercrombie said . <p> Abercrombie said a special election should be conducted to replace Gabbard , and acknowledged that he is serving as the co-chair for Kai Kahele , a state senator who is running to fill Gabbard 's seat in 2020 . The former governor said his opinion on Gabbard was formed independently of his position on Kahele 's campaign , but that he would support Kahele if he ran in a special election . <p> " Clearly her vote is unacceptable . It 's disappointing , " Kahele said of Gabbard 's impeachment vote , adding it was " not what the taxpayers of Hawaii sent her here for . " <p> Abercrombie , who was also a long-serving member of Congress before resigning to focus on his own gubernatorial campaign , said he was most concerned with Gabbard 's absence from Congress during her campaign and " whether or not you can do the job . " He said he was an early supporter of Gabbard 's but would have counseled her not to run for president had she asked . <p> " I wish her the best of good fortune , " Abercrombie said . " But I feel very , very strongly that the Second District of Hawaii needs to be fully represented . " 
@@82877839 <h> Israel : Gaza rocket intercepted as PM held election rally <p> JERUSALEM ( AP ) -- Israel said a rocket was fired from the Gaza Strip into its southern territory Wednesday , forcing Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to be hustled from a stage during an election rally in the city of Ashkelon . <p> The Israeli military said its air defense system , known as Iron Dome , intercepted the rocket . There were no reports of casualties . <p> Israel 's Haaretz daily published a video on its website showing Netanyahu being taken to a shelter as he was campaigning hours before the primaries of his Likud party . <p> Netanyahu says he knows how to protect Israel , but opponents accuse him of being soft on handling threats from Gaza . <p> A similar incident happened in September when Netanyahu was in the nearby city of Ashdod . He was campaigning then for the second general Israeli election of the year . That was believed to have triggered Israel 's targeted killing of a senior commander in the Palestinian Islamic Jihad group in November . Israel and Gaza militants had their worst round of fighting in months as a result . <p> No Palestinian group claimed responsibility for Wednesday 's attack . Such sporadic launches of rockets and ensuing Israeli airstrikes have happened frequently despite an Egyptian-brokered cease-fire that ended two days of fighting in November . <p> Hamas , the larger Islamic movement controlling Gaza , seeks " understandings " with Israel to alleviate Gaza 's economic and humanitarian crises . The militant group stayed on the sidelines during the November flare-up . <p> Copyright 2019 The Associated Press . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed . <h> Watch this discussion.Stop watching this discussion . <h> ( 0 ) comments <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article . 
@@82888249 <h> WATCH : UN Ambassadors Witness Terror Tunnel and Iron Dome ! <h> WATCH : UN Ambassadors Witness Terror Tunnel and Iron Dome ! <h> Related : <p> Israel 's envoy to the UN Danny Danon recently took a delegation of fellow ambassadors to the Gaza border , to see Hamas ' terror infrastructure first hand . <p> UN ambassadors from around the world visited the Gaza belt with Israeli envoy Danny Danon . He showed them an actual Hamas terror tunnel discovered by the IDF before it could be used to harm Israeli civilians . Watch this INCREDIBLE diplomatic achievement for Israel ! <p> The delegation included ambassadors from Guatemala , Paraguay , Poland , Ethiopia , Romania , Ukraine , Estonia , and the Czech Republic , among other nations . Danon also brought the UN delegation to an Iron Dome battery in Netivot . <p> While the UN consistently pursues an anti-Israel agenda , ambassadors from member states are not afraid to confront the truth about Palestinian terror , which threatens Israelis on a daily basis . <h> Keep Israeli Soldiers Warm this Winter - Send Care Packages ! <p> We are honored to thank the young men and women of the IDF who risk their lives every day to defend the citizens of Israel . <p> Join us in sending winter care packages and personal notes of support to Israeli soldiers who are out in the cold all day . 
@@82892346 <p> Here 's the latest for Monday December 30th : U.S. announces military strikes in Iraq and Syria ; North Korea 's Kim Jong Un calls for unspecified offensive ; Police : Armed parishioners kill Texas church gunman ; New York stabbing suspect pleads not guilty . <p> A man accused of attacking a Hannukah celebration in New York state pleaded not guilty to five counts of attempted murder and one count of burglary . Grafton E. Thomas was arrested within two hours of the attack . ( Dec. 30 ) <p> Japan has revised a roadmap for the tsunami-wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant cleanup , further delaying the removal of thousands of spent fuel units that remain in cooling pools since the 2011 disaster . ( Dec. 27 ) <p> Israel 's prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu was rushed off the stage of an election rally on Wednesday after sirens rang out , warning of a rocket attack from the Gaza Strip . Authorities confirmed that a defensive missile intercepted the rocket . ( Dec. 26 ) <p> Three adults were killed in an apparent murder-suicide on Christmas Eve while four young children were inside the home , authorities in Lakeland , Florida said . The children were safely removed from the home . ( Dec. 25 ) 
