@@71434776 <h> Australia 's regional real estate hot spots <p> Australian cities are becoming more difficult to live in but our regional towns are flourishing with increased jobs , infrastructure and people . <p> The pair behind a controversial Facebook page that exposes the country 's sh*ttest towns have immortalised some of the worst offenders in a book.Source:NewsLocal <p> Rick Furphy and Geoff Rissole sparked controversy across the nation with their viral Facebook page , Sh*t Towns of Australia . Now they 've published a book . And some of the most popular spots in NSW have the unfortunate distinction of making the cut , as this extract from their book reveals . <p> Australia 's most sh*t towns have been immortalised in a book by Rick Furphy and Geoff Rissole.Source:Supplied <p> NEW SOUTH WALES <p> Named after the most inbred of the Home Countries and colonised by the first wave of convicts to land in the Lucky Country , New South Wales is now the most populous state in Australia . From the megalopolis of Sydney to anonymous rural dungheaps , New South Wales features a diverse array of sh*t towns housing many different types of d*ckhead . The state 's official sport is discussing house prices and its official sexual position is crying under the doona . <p> Renowned as Australia 's easternmost point , Byron Bay is also the country 's biggest d*ckhead magnet . Every type of f*ckwit under the sun gravitates to Byron : smelly hippies spilling out of their housevans , tattooed surfers fighting each other for territory , barefoot bogans fighting each other for fun , cashed-up Boomers flittering between overpriced organic cafes and bullsh*t galleries , and overseas millionaires buying up the entire town for holiday homes . <p> It 's the sort of place that corporate shills on their second divorce fantasise about moving to so they can open a yoga retreat and root a dreadlocked barista on the beach . Byron Bay is Disneyland for dropouts , or the Gold Coast for people who prefer their Meter Maids to have hairy pits . <p> Overrun by tourists and littered with their half-eaten takeaways and used condoms , the only people who actually live in Byron Bay are pretentious trustafarians who turned up for Splendour in the Grass and forgot to f*ck off home after the mushies wore off . These private school plastic hippies use their old man 's money to live the " Byron dream " and subsidise their supposed " free spirit lifestyle " , which actually consists of wearing cheap jewellery they bought in Bali while complaining about other fake hippies , catching herpes from German backpackers and generally doing large amounts of serious f*ck-all . <p> Byron Bay gained national notoriety for rejecting fast food giants McDonald 's and KFC under the pretence that junk food did n't fit with the " Byron lifestyle " -- maybe if Macca 's started serving kombucha and lentils and giving away hacky sacks in their Happy Meals it might have got the Byron seal of approval . <p> Byron Bay is known for its night-life , which consists of drunken drongos and Schoolies smashing each other 's teeth out and projectile vomiting at passers-by . It 's also a prime spot for spotting whales , which is why Byronites were still slaughtering humpbacks as recently as the 1960s . A popular feature is the Cape Byron Lighthouse , which serves the vital purpose of warning passing seafarers away from the complete wankeropolis of Byron Bay . We suggest you heed its warning . <p> ALSO KNOWN AS : Moron Bay . <p> MOST FAMOUS PERSON : Chris Hemsworth owns a giant fortress at Byron , where he goes to escape the pressures of being paid millions of dollars to dress up as a superhero . <p> Coffs Harbour is synonymous with bananas , blueberries and bulldogs . The city 's most famous feature is the Big Banana Fun Park , a B-grade family attraction built around a giant phallic fruit sculpture and showcasing all the fun things you can do with a banana , at least two of which are appropriate for children . Other sad attractions include a marine mammal slave camp and the Clog Barn , which celebrates everything about Holland except the fun stuff . <p> " Coffs Harbour " is a misspelling of " Coughs Harbour " , so named because the town 's entire settler population had smallpox . Consequently they were shunned by their neighbouring settlements , causing a profound hostility that persists to this day . Coffs Harbourians are some of the most unfriendly , arrogant and judgmental bastards one could have the misfortune to meet . <p> They are fiercely proud of their city , despite it lacking any points of interest beyond a big yellow dong , a highway with 700 sets of traffic lights , an NRL scandal and a legacy of birth defects from toxic pesticides . Coffs is a comatose beachside ghetto and cultural wasteland with nothing to do but truckloads of meth . Indeed , it might be the only place where there are no jobs but everyone still judges you for not having one . The only thing going for Coffs Harbour is that no NRL team will ever hold a Mad Monday there again . <p> MOST FAMOUS PERSON : Russell Crowe owns a sprawling estate just outside Coffs Harbour and often staggers barefoot into town to drown a few pints and growl out a couple of Cold Chisel covers . <p> PORT MACQUARIE <p> Port Macquarie : ' The City That Barely Stays Awake ' . Source:Supplied <p> Named after an autocratic governor with a penchant for massacring Aboriginal people and stealing their children , Port Macquarie was founded as a brutal penal settlement before becoming a prison for old people waiting to die . The seaside snorefest is overrun with two of Australia 's biggest pests : koalas and the elderly , two demographics known for their low energy levels , weak eyesight and disgusting mating habits . When they are n't going to town on a gum tree or indulging in some casual racism , Port Macquarie 's inmates are fond of doing serious f*ck-all . <p> If New York is " The City that Never Sleeps " , Port Macquarie is " The City that Barely Stays Awake " . In fact , boredom has been legally mandated in the town to avoid overstimulating the locals . Port Macquarie has been named the least affordable smaller city in Australia , although the income stats are somewhat skewed because everyone is either retired or a marsupial . <p> Port Macquarie 's main visitor attraction is the Hello Koalas Sculpture Trail , where tourists can peruse over 60 individually handpainted statues of chlamydia-riddled four-thumbed freaks . If you 'd prefer to surround yourself with leathery geriatrics whipping out their wrinkly bits , opt for a day at a local beach . Otherwise , there are always the time-honoured tourist favourites of running all the way home while screaming or driving your rental car off the nearest cliff . <p> TOWN SLOGAN : The City that Sleeps . <p> NEWCASTLE <p> Newcastle : ' So fond of its working-class image that even its footy team wears hi-vis ' . Source:istock <p> Founded as a dumping ground for Britain 's most dangerous convicts , Newcastle 's notoriety as a godforsaken sh*thole still lingers two centuries later . Named after Newcastle in England , New South Wales ' second-largest settlement has done its best to replicate its namesake 's reputation as a depressing post-industrial hellscape famous for its aggressive locals , impenetrable local dialect and crap football team . The city 's inmates pretentiously refer to themselves as " Novocastrians " , despite the fact that none of them can spell it . <p> Newcastle 's main industries are filling the atmosphere with toxic smog , pillaging the earth and complaining about people from Sydney . " The Steel City " is so fond of its working-class image that even its footy team wears hi-vis . The only things that emit more smoke than the stacks are the droves of deros lining the CBD accosting passers-by for a durry . <p> Despite its blue-collar reputation , Newcastle is propped up by a plethora of public service jobs , making it less of a " bogan Pittsburgh " and more of a " sooty Canberra " . Other Novocastrations include surfers ( stoners ) , musos ( junkies ) and footy jocks ( ' roiders ) , all decked out in ' Newcastle sports coats ' ( jizz-stained flannelette shirts ) . <p> Newcastle is exceptionally proud of its NRL team the Knights , despite the fact that they have n't made the finals since 2013 ( or roughly six prime ministers ago ) . In addition to their impressive collection of wooden spoons , the club is most famous for almost going bust after being bought by a bogan billionaire , while their best player is mostly known for doing enough pingers to kill a whole wisdom of wombats . <p> Until recently Newcastle 's biggest attraction was a massive penis-shaped tower , which the council demolished out of sheer embarrassment in 2018 . The city now has nothing to promote other than the rusted carcass of a port with a decrepit CBD welded on , rows of abandoned shops and the country 's biggest KFC . Hunter Street Mall and Marketown are popular bashing hot spots , while Fort Scratchley and Strzelecki Lookout are where most Novoc*mstains are conceived . <p> Most famous people : Silverchair , a sh*tty Nirvana cover band from the nineties . <p> CENTRAL COAST <p> Central Coast : ' A rat king of sh*t towns ' . Source:istock <p> Combining featureless urban sprawl with some truly degenerate savagery , New South Wales ' Central Coast is a rat king of sh*t towns . Boasting such attractions as syringe-littered beaches , copious roundabouts and sh*t roads , the area houses a diverse array of a***holes including tourists , old people , thugs , human seagulls and people who work in Sydney but could n't bring themselves to live in Sydney . <p> The poo in the Cenny Coast 's crown is Gosford ( short for " Godforsaken Hellhole " ) , the area 's derelict CBD . Full of deros , druggos and dole bludgers , the epitomical sh*t town is commonly referred to as " Mount Druitt by the Sea " , " Sandy Parramatta " or " Nautical Campbelltown " . Popular activities in Gosford include asking strangers for cigarettes , spray painting your name on a train or keeping your pants up with a length of electrical cord . <p> " Gosford " is also slang for a particularly short skirt , as the town is close to a holiday resort called The Entrance . Appropriately , gosfords are the standard dress choice of the town 's carefree female folk , usually paired with a thin strip of fabric as a top and no underwear , while the blokes favour Tapout shirts tight enough to show off the fruits of their disciplined steroid abuse . <p> Gosford is home to the Central Coast Mariners football team , who play their home games at three-quarters of a stadium on the waterfront . Due to a dearth of fans , the ground only has stands on three sides ; the fourth borders a road by the sea , allowing the Mariners ' usually wayward strikers to boot the ball into the drink with unsurprising regularity . <p> Other crapholes along the Coast include " Terrible " Terrigal , " Wrong " Wyong , and the activewear-wearing single-parent mecca Copacabana ( named after a Barry Manilow song ) . The Entrance magically transforms into the Gaza Strip annually after being ravaged by Sydneysiders over the Christmas period . The witticisms " God 's waiting room " and " the world 's only above-ground cemetery " have been co-opted to describe numerous retirement towns but were originally coined by Spike Milligan for the geriatric camp of Woy Woy , a sort of mini-Gosford but with even more coffin dodgers . <p> Whether you are an old fart wanting to expire by the ocean or simply feel like getting stabbed at a beach , the Central Coast is for you ! <p> ALSO KNOWN AS : Cenny Coast , Centrelink Coast , Mental Coast . <p> LITHGOW <p> Lithgow : ' Deader than a baby in a dingo 's den ' . Source:istock <p> Cold , grey and stranded in the Blue Mountains , Lithgow is deader than a baby in a dingo 's den . The miserable ghost town is inhabited by packs of listless mountain people with pallid skin and dead eyes , all permanently adorned in trackpants , otherwise known as " trackie daks " or " sex offender trousers " . The only daytime activities in town are sitting around , watching tumbleweeds roll down the main street and staring at people , while " night-life " consists of sitting around , getting smashed on cheap piss , watching the odd drag race down the main street and staring at people . If you do plan to visit , be warned that cracking a smile in Lithgow will get you beaten up . <p> Lithgow 's industry consists of numerous mines , mills , plants and factories all closing down as fast as they can . The only things still operating there are a train station that does a roaring trade on departures and a maximum-security prison . Lithgow was the site of the Small Arms Factory , a weapons plant manned entirely by people with small arms . The factory went belly-up when it became clear that its genetically challenged workers were significantly less productive than their competitors . <p> Lithgow 's premier event is the annual Ironfest festival , which includes a jousting tournament and a colonial war re-enactment , attracting virgins from all over New South Wales . A popular nearby attraction is the Glowworm Tunnel , which is popular mainly because it provides visitors with an excuse to briefly leave Lithgow . The disused railway tunnel is filled with glowing lights which are mistakenly believed to be glow-worms but are actually the illuminated eyes of Lithgow locals lurking in the shadows and staring at tourists . In Lithgow , it 's not just the bracing cold that will give you shivers . <p> ALSO KNOWN AS : Liffgow . <p> PENRITH <p> Penrith : ' A super-slum notorious for its population of feral housos , yobbos and other ruffians ' . Picture : AAP/Angelo VelardoSource:News Corp Australia <p> A bunker of blue-collar ( or no-collar ) bogans at the base of the Blue Mountains , Penrith is a super-slum notorious for its population of feral housos , yobbos and other ruffians . Despite the loose nature of its inmates , the Greater Western Sydney suburb is actually replete with amenities that any westie can truly appreciate : bespoke meth labs , palatial pokie dens and loads of wilderness in which to hide a body . <p> The Penrith uniform consists of a mullet or rat 's tail , ugg boots and a flannel shirt with a pack of Winnie Blues tucked into the upper sleeve ( unisex ) with a Southern Cross tattoo on either the bicep ( for men ) or the right breast ( for women ) . The most popular pastime involves proud Aussie primary school dropouts moaning that they can barely make their next meth payment because educated immigrants took all the jobs . <p> Penrith is commonly known by locals as " Penriff " or " The Riff " due to the local accent/speech impediment , a source of constant confusion for Sydneysiders passing through on their way to Liffgow or Baffurst . The suburb 's most popular sports team is the Penrith Panthers , or in local parlance , the " Panfers " . The NRL team originally carried the derisive nickname " the Chocolate Soldiers " , which interestingly , given the make-up of their fan base , was not a racist slur but actually a reference to their sh*t-coloured jerseys . <p> Penrith is also home to the Museum of Fire , a tribute to the suburb 's long tradition of urban arson . <p> SYDNEY <p> Sydney : Also known as ' Sadney ' . Source:istock <p> Otherwise known as " London for Aussies who ca n't handle a twentyhour flight " , Sydney is a sweltering sh*t crucible beset by a confusing layout , horrific traffic and ever-increasing property prices that mean the only people who can really afford to live there are crooked investment bankers , crooked politicians and the children of crooked media moguls . <p> Sydney 's iconic landmarks are the Sydney Opera House ( which was designed by a Dane ) , Sydney Harbour Bridge ( which was designed by Scots ) and Bondi Beach ( which was nicked from the natives ) . In addition to Bondi , Sydney boasts an abundance of beaches , which would be great if not for the fact that most of its residents spend the majority of their time either working to pay outsized rent or mortgages or stuck in seemingly endless traffic jams . If you do find five minutes to visit a beach , it will be covered with tourists and Instagram models scrapping to take the perfect selfie . Night-life is no longer an option after " Sadney " implemented nonsensical lockout laws designed to curb Australia 's favourite nocturnal pastime : coward punching strangers while queuing for a dodgy kebab . <p> In many respects Sydney is actually a bunch of sh*t towns loosely amalgamated into a giant , sloppy , steaming sh*tropolis . The eastern suburbs are filled with ex-private-school boys driving midlife crisis machines , looking for their next trophy wife while avoiding being charged with insider trading . The northern beaches are filled with surfer stereotypes who refuse to cross the bridge under any circumstances and will happily stab you for the perfect wave . The inner west is filled with paleo-obsessed hipsters sipping on a wide range of soy-based beverages while pursuing a career as a " social media influencer " and letting their property developer parents pay their rent . Southern Sydney is where flag-wearing rednecks stage most of their race riots . While the majority of Sydneysiders like to pretend their city ends somewhere around Annandale , Greater Western Sydney is where they keep their bogans , benefit cheats and prospective ISIS recruits . <p> ALSO KNOWN AS : Sydders , Sydneyside , Sadney , Sh*tney , Sydenee . <p> WOLLONGONG <p> Wollongong : ' Newcastle for People Who Have Given Up ' . Source:NewsLocal <p> Wollongong is synonymous with most words starting with ' un ' : uncultured , unsafe , uninspiring , unclean , unsightly , undeniably unpleasant , unemployment , unprotected sex , unconsciousness and uncle-dads . Full of decaying buildings and relying on a raft of dying heavy industries , the crime-ridden industrial wasteland is essentially a rustier version of Newcastle . <p> Commonly called " The Gong " because of all the bashings , Wollongong is home to a wide swath of undesirable characters including drunken deros , strung-out needle fiends and an inexplicable number of personal trainers . Popular activities include getting caught in a coalmine explosion , getting glassed in Crown Street Mall , getting stabbed at the railway station and getting beaten up for having the wrong colour shirt or skin . Former lord mayor Frank Arkell once coined the phrase " Wonderful Wollongong " to promote the city -- then again , former lord mayor Frank Arkell was an alleged paedophile who ended up being brutally murdered in his own home , which somewhat undermines his slogan . <p> Aside from general violence and disrepair , Wollongong is famous for its beaches , which is fortunate because any length of time in town will leave you with the overwhelming desire to walk into the sea . Unfortunately , said beaches are all massively polluted by both local litterbugs and Port Kembla , the city 's primary cancer complex and coal export/heroin import docks . Wollongong features two lighthouses , each as sh*t as the other : Wollongong Breakwater Lighthouse , which does n't work , and Wollongong Head Lighthouse , which looks like a giant tampon. 
@@71444973 <p> In recent months , the world 's gaze has landed again and again on a hellish Australian terrain of climate-related disaster . Bushfires ravage some of the planet 's oldest trees in Tasmania . Catastrophic coral bleaching leaves much of the Great Barrier Reef a ghostly white . The first known mammal to be wiped out by global warming was recently identified there . <p> And yet , there is little to no discussion of climate change in your federal election campaign , which is why many Australian groups are forcefully calling for " Pollution Free Politics " : as in North America , the fossil fuel industry has managed to capture not only the debate and key levers of policy , but also huge government subsidies that help to lock in their civilisation-threatening business model , even as renewables surge around the world . <p> The Middle East is now squeezed in the pincer of violence caused by fossil fuels , on the one hand , and the impact of burning those fossil fuels on the other . <p> But responding to the climate crisis is not just a matter of closing coal plants and building more solar arrays . A rapid transition to green energy is also an opportunity to remake our world for the better -- to lower emissions in ways that also address historical injustice and inequality , bolster democracy , and prevent the kind of brutal , inhumane future that we are already catching far too many glimpses of , from the treatment of refugees on Manus Island and Nauru to the devastating tragedy in Orlando . <p> In March , two major peer-reviewed studies warned that sea-level rise could happen significantly faster than previously believed . One of the authors of the first study was James Hansen , perhaps the most respected climate scientist in the world . He warned that , on our current emissions trajectory , we face the " loss of all coastal cities , most of the world 's large cities and all their history " -- and not in thousands of years , but as soon as this century . <p> If we do n't demand radical change we are headed for a whole world of people searching for a home that no longer exists . In countries such as the Marshall Islands and Fiji and Tuvalu , they know that so much sea-level rise is inevitable that their countries likely have no future . But they refuse just to concern themselves with the logistics of relocation , and would n't even if there were safer countries willing to open their borders -- a very big if , since climate refugees are n't currently recognised under international law . <p> Instead they are actively resisting : blockading Australian coal ships with traditional outrigger canoes , disrupting international climate negotiations with their inconvenient presence , demanding far more aggressive climate action . If there is anything worth celebrating in the Paris agreement signed in April -- and sadly , there is n't enough -- it has come about because of this kind of principled action . <p> For the past three decades , since the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change was created and climate negotiations began , the refusal of our governments to lower emissions has been accompanied with full awareness of the dangers . And this kind of recklessness would have been functionally impossible without institutional racism , even if only latent . It would have been impossible without orientalism -- what Edward Said described in his landmark book of the same name as " disregarding , essentialising , denuding the humanity of another culture , people or geographical region " . It would have been impossible without all the potent tools on offer that allow the powerful to discount the lives of the less powerful . These tools -- of ranking the relative value of humans -- are what allow the writing off of entire nations and ancient cultures . And they are what allowed for the digging up of all that carbon to begin with . <p> Why ? Because the thing about fossil fuels is that they are so inherently dirty and toxic that they require sacrificial people and places : people whose lungs and bodies can be sacrificed to work in the coalmines , people whose lands and water can be sacrificed to open-pit mining and oil spills . As recently as the 1970s , scientists advising the United States government openly referred to certain parts of the country being designated " national sacrifice areas " . Think of the mountains of Appalachia , blasted off for coalmining -- because so-called " mountain-top removal " coalmining is cheaper than digging holes underground . There were theories of othering used to justify the sacrificing of an entire geography : after all , if you are a backwards " hillbilly " , who cares about your hills ? <p> Turning all that coal into electricity required another layer of othering , too : this time for the urban neighbourhoods next door to the power plants and refineries . In North America , these are overwhelmingly communities of colour , black and Latino , forced to carry the toxic burden of our collective addiction to fossil fuels , with markedly higher rates of respiratory illnesses and cancers . It was in fights against this kind of " environmental racism " that the climate justice movement was born . <p> Fossil fuel sacrifice zones dot the globe . Take the Niger Delta , poisoned with an Exxon Valdez-worth of spilled oil every year , a process Ken Saro-Wiwa , before he was murdered by his government , called " ecological genocide " . The executions of community leaders , he said , were " all for Shell " . <p> Fossil fuels require sacrifice zones : they always have . And you ca n't have a system built on sacrificial places and sacrificial people unless intellectual theories that justify their sacrifice exist and persist : from manifest destiny to terra nullius to orientalism , from backward hillbillies to backward Indians . <p> Some people insist that it does n't have to be this bad . We can clean up resource extraction ; we do n't need to do it the way it 's been done in Appalachia or in the Niger Delta . Except that we are running out of cheap and easy ways to get at fossil fuels . This , in turn , is starting to challenge the original Faustian pact of the industrial age : that the heaviest risks would be outsourced , offloaded , onto the other -- the periphery abroad and inside our own nations . From fracking the picturesque countryside to oil trains barrelling through major cities , that outsourcing is becoming less and less possible . <p> There is also an avalanche of evidence that there is no peaceful way to run an economy powered by coal , oil and gas . The trouble is structural . Fossil fuels , unlike renewable forms of energy such as wind and solar , are not widely distributed but highly concentrated in very specific locations , and those locations have a bad habit of being in other people 's countries . Particularly that most potent and precious of fossil fuels : oil . This is why the project of orientalism , of othering Arab and Muslim people , has been the silent partner of our oil dependence from the start -- and inextricable , therefore , from the blowback that is climate change . If nations and peoples are regarded as other -- exotic , primitive , bloodthirsty , as Said documented in the 1970s -- it is far easier to wage wars and stage coups when they get the crazy idea that they should control their own oil in their own interests . The reverberations from such interventions continue to jolt our world , as do the reverberations from the successful burning of all that oil . The Middle East is now squeezed in the pincer of violence caused by fossil fuels , on the one hand , and the impact of burning those fossil fuels on the other . <p> In his latest book , The Conflict Shoreline , the Israeli architect Eyal Weizman has a groundbreaking take on how these forces are intersecting . The main way we 've understood the border of the desert in the Middle East and North Africa , he explains , is the so-called " aridity line " , areas where there is on average 200 millimetres of rainfall a year , which has been considered the minimum for growing cereal crops on a large scale without irrigation . He documents that all along the aridity line , you see places marked by drought , water scarcity , scorching temperatures and military conflict -- from Libya to Palestine to Syria , to some of the bloodiest battlefields in Afghanistan and Pakistan . <p> Weizman also discovered what he calls an " astounding coincidence " . When you map the targets of Western drone strikes onto the region , you see that " many of these attacks -- from South Waziristan through northern Yemen , Somalia , Mali , Iraq , Gaza and Libya -- are directly on or close to the 200mm aridity line " . <p> Just as bombs follow oil , and drones follow drought , so boats follow both : boats filled with refugees fleeing homes on the aridity line ravaged by war and drought . And the same capacity for dehumanising the other that justified the bombs and drones is now being trained on these migrants . <p> Camps are bulldozed in Calais , thousands of people drown in the Mediterranean , and the Australian government detains survivors of wars and despotic regimes in camps on the remote islands of Nauru and Manus . Conditions are so desperate on Nauru that in April an Iranian migrant died after setting himself on fire to try to draw the world 's attention . Another migrant -- a 21-year-old woman from Somalia -- set herself on fire a few days later . Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull warns that Australians " can not be misty-eyed about this " and " have to be very clear and determined in our national purpose " . <p> I thought about Nauru when I read a columnist in a London-based Murdoch paper declaring that it 's time for Britain " to get Australian . Bring on the gunships , force migrants back to their shores and burn the boats . " In another bit of symbolism , Nauru is one of the Pacific Islands very vulnerable to sea-level rise . Its residents , after seeing their homes turned into prisons for others , will very possibly have to migrate themselves . <p> We need to understand that what is happening on Nauru , and what is happening to it , are expressions of the same logic . A culture that places so little value on black and brown lives that it is willing to let human beings disappear beneath the waves , or set themselves on fire in detention centres , will also be willing to let the countries where black and brown people live disappear beneath the waves , or desiccate in the arid heat . When that happens , theories of human hierarchy -- that we must take care of our own first -- will be marshalled to rationalise these monstrous decisions . We are making this rationalisation already , if only implicitly . Although climate change will ultimately be an existential threat to all of humanity , in the short term we know that it does discriminate , hitting the poor first and worst . <p> The most important lesson to take from all this is that there is no way to confront the climate crisis as a technocratic problem , in isolation . It must be seen in the context of austerity and privatisation , of colonialism and militarism , and of the various systems of othering needed to sustain them all . The connections and intersections between them are glaring , and yet so often resistance to them is highly compartmentalised . The anti-austerity people rarely talk about climate change , the climate change people rarely talk about war or occupation . <p> Overcoming these disconnections -- strengthening the threads tying together our various issues and movements -- is the most pressing task of anyone concerned with social and economic justice . It is the only way to build a counterpower sufficiently robust to win against the forces protecting the highly profitable but increasingly untenable status quo . <p> This is an edited extract of the Edward W. Said London Lecture 2016 with a revised introduction . The full , unedited text can be read here . <p> This article was first published in the print edition of The Saturday Paper on Jun 25 , 2016 as " Climate control " . Subscribe here . <p> Naomi Klein is an award-winning activist , author and journalist . She will be awarded the 2016 Sydney Peace Prize in November . <p> Rick Morton Australia is on fire and the volunteers on the front line are sounding an alarm . Lacking vital resources , they are exhausted and quickly draining their annual leave . And the season has no end in sight.It is hard for everyone and I 'm not just talking about our shed . Every shed in New South Wales , everyone is pushed to the limit . <p> Karen Middleton New information confirms mistakes were made in the lead-up to the suicide bomb attack that left David Savage severely injured , but questions remain about who should take responsibility . <p> Amrita Hepi For the 2020 Sydney Biennale , artistic director Brook Andrew is challenging the dominant narratives of this country , instead bringing together perspectives that have been unjustly relegated . " Australia is on a precipice of change in this present moment , with people renegotiating and confronting histories which shift dimensionally . It 's about who we are today , and there is a moral question that arises in this , which is : Where do you stand in the face of change ? " <p> Mikele Prestia Too few Australians know about the case of Witness J -- not to be confused with the case against Witness K and Bernard Collaery , itself a disgraceful overreach of the law . But a veil of secrecy shrouds the case of Witness J that should be of concern to all of us . <p> Paul Bongiorno Scott Morrison 's year of living miraculously ended with our elected leader disappearing from view and his whereabouts being treated like a state secret . The attitude that the prime minister 's location is nobody 's business is a strong indication of the arrogance -- indeed the contempt -- he and his government have demonstrated since their May election triumph . <p> Richard Ackland There 's a carnival atmosphere at St Brutes ( motto : Tabula in naufragio ) as the end-of-year speech day gets under way . Parents , boys and staff are assembled in a marquee on the oval . Professor Flint on the Wurlitzer falls silent as the headmaster , Mr Morrison , strides to the lectern , droplets of lunchtime pie and sauce on his chin catching the afternoon light . Pastor Houston is invited to say a short and meaningful prayer . <p> After the United States resettlement deal it is likely there will be 250 refugees in Papua New Guinea and on Nauru , still unsettled and held in stasis . Often it feels as if there is nothing that can be done . In this case , however , there is . A little-known part of Canada 's immigration system allows for refugees to be sponsored for resettlement . For about $20,000 , a person can be considered as part of a special intake . There is a quota each year , which is about to be refreshed . Some 200 places are expected to be available in 2020 . So , as the year comes to an end , The Saturday Paper is raising money to ensure the people held by Australia in offshore detention are included in this sponsorship process . <p> Martin McKenzie-Murray In a year when we reckoned with climate catastrophe , hypocritical world leaders and the increasing erosion of our privacy , we also witnessed the resistance of the Hong Kong protesters and the triumph of Ash Barty . <p> Rick Morton Australia is on fire and the volunteers on the front line are sounding an alarm . Lacking vital resources , they are exhausted and quickly draining their annual leave . And the season has no end in sight.It is hard for everyone and I 'm not just talking about our shed . Every shed in New South Wales , everyone is pushed to the limit . <p> Karen Middleton New information confirms mistakes were made in the lead-up to the suicide bomb attack that left David Savage severely injured , but questions remain about who should take responsibility . <p> Amrita Hepi For the 2020 Sydney Biennale , artistic director Brook Andrew is challenging the dominant narratives of this country , instead bringing together perspectives that have been unjustly relegated . " Australia is on a precipice of change in this present moment , with people renegotiating and confronting histories which shift dimensionally . It 's about who we are today , and there is a moral question that arises in this , which is : Where do you stand in the face of change ? " <p> Mikele Prestia Too few Australians know about the case of Witness J -- not to be confused with the case against Witness K and Bernard Collaery , itself a disgraceful overreach of the law . But a veil of secrecy shrouds the case of Witness J that should be of concern to all of us . <p> Paul Bongiorno Scott Morrison 's year of living miraculously ended with our elected leader disappearing from view and his whereabouts being treated like a state secret . The attitude that the prime minister 's location is nobody 's business is a strong indication of the arrogance -- indeed the contempt -- he and his government have demonstrated since their May election triumph . <p> Richard Ackland There 's a carnival atmosphere at St Brutes ( motto : Tabula in naufragio ) as the end-of-year speech day gets under way . Parents , boys and staff are assembled in a marquee on the oval . Professor Flint on the Wurlitzer falls silent as the headmaster , Mr Morrison , strides to the lectern , droplets of lunchtime pie and sauce on his chin catching the afternoon light . Pastor Houston is invited to say a short and meaningful prayer . <p> After the United States resettlement deal it is likely there will be 250 refugees in Papua New Guinea and on Nauru , still unsettled and held in stasis . Often it feels as if there is nothing that can be done . In this case , however , there is . A little-known part of Canada 's immigration system allows for refugees to be sponsored for resettlement . For about $20,000 , a person can be considered as part of a special intake . There is a quota each year , which is about to be refreshed . Some 200 places are expected to be available in 2020 . So , as the year comes to an end , The Saturday Paper is raising money to ensure the people held by Australia in offshore detention are included in this sponsorship process . <p> Martin McKenzie-Murray In a year when we reckoned with climate catastrophe , hypocritical world leaders and the increasing erosion of our privacy , we also witnessed the resistance of the Hong Kong protesters and the triumph of Ash Barty. 
@@71471371 <p> " As a result , this aided mankind in settling down despite harsh conditions , " said the document . <p> Until this day , platters of dates adorn tables in homes and businesses across the Arab world , where the symbol of the date palm tree has historically presented prosperity . <p> The offering of the sweet fruit , coupled with a cup of coffee , is a sign of good old-fashioned Arab hospitality . <p> According to the UN 's Food and Agriculture Organization , the date palm is probably the most ancient cultivated tree . <p> It was grown as early as 4,000 BC and used for the construction of the moon god temple near Ur in southern Iraq -- the ancient region of Mesopotamia . <p> " The population of the submitting states has been associated with the date palm tree for centuries as it aided them in the construction of civilisation , " they said in the nomination . <p> " Historical research and various antiquities excavations have resulted in the plant 's significant cultural and economic status in numerous regions such as Mesopotamia , ancient Egypt and the Arab Gulf . " <p> The ancient crop also faces some modern challenges . Gulf countries have fought hard to eradicate the red palm weevil , which originally came from Asia and was first detected in the region in the 1980s . <p> The beetle , which is barely a few centimetres ( around an inch ) long , produces larvae that feed off palm trunks , killing the trees . <p> " In Gulf countries and the Middle East , $8 million is lost each year through removal of severely infested trees alone , " according to the FAO . <p> All parts of the date palm were and are still used in some parts of the region for shelter or to produce a range of products , including handicrafts , mats , rope and furniture . <p> To celebrate and promote their date palm heritage and palm products , some of the submitting countries hold annual date festivals , most notably the annual Liwa Date Festival in the UAE and the Dates Festival in Al-Qassim in Saudi Arabia . <p> Both Gulf countries are among the top date exporters , according to the Geneva-based International Trade Centre . <p> A Palestinian farmer picks dates from a palm tree during harvest in Deir al-Balah in the central Gaza Strip in September 
@@71475979 <h> Trump Iran policy : Dark undertones to Saudi-led public ire over Qatar <p> The latest spat between Qatar and a Saudi-led group of Arab states is not the first controversy involving the immensely wealthy Gulf state . But the reaction to it is a strong indication that regional players see the Trump administration as one that shares their view of the Middle East security landscape . <p> The flashpoint for this fracas was some rather incendiary remarks allegedly made by Qatar 's Emir , Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani , and reported on the Qatari government news agency 's website . <p> It reported that in a military graduation speech he spoke positively about Iran , said the Trump administration might not last and asserted that the Muslim Brotherhood-aligned Hamas was the true representative of the Palestinians . <p> This was taken up by regional media and rapidly became a significant issue . Doha denied that any such comments were made by the Emir and claimed the website had been hacked ; the FBI has been called in to assist the Qataris with their investigation . But such was the belief in the region that these words could have been uttered by the ruler of Qatar that the truth or otherwise of the speech became a secondary consideration . Disputes between Qatar and its neighbours are nothing new . There was a brief , small-scale clash over a border dispute with Saudi Arabia in 1992 , but the main catalyst for problems has been Doha 's willingness to use its enormous wealth to initiate an independent regional foreign policy , often separate from , and at times opposed to , that of other Gulf states , most notably Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates . <p> Doha established the Al Jazeera media network , whose criticism of Saudi Arabia led to Riyadh withdrawing its ambassador to Qatar in 2002 , and it has backed Libyan groups fighting UAE-backed groups in the chaotic post-Gaddafi era . Qatar actively sup ? ported Mohammed Morsi 's presi ? dency in Egypt when its Gulf partners did not , leading to the withdrawal of several Gulf ambassadors from Qatar . And in Syria , Qatar 's lack of due diligence in choosing anti-Assad forces to support drew criticism for facilitating the arming of radical Islamist groups , although there is plenty of blame to go around among regional states on this point . <p> But Qatar also has been strategically savvy at times . It largely funded the construction of al-Udeid air base in the 1990s to house US and coalition air assets . It was an extravagant insurance policy , but as its importance has grown the decision to tie Washington to Doha through a basing agreement has proved useful . <p> Although Doha 's aggressively independent foreign policy stance has regularly courted conflict with its Gulf Co-operation Council neighbours , the disputes tend to follow a familiar pattern . Doha 's policy approaches reach a point sufficiently affronting to attract the enmity of Saudi Arabia . A third party then brokers a deal in which Doha is seen to pull back some of its more provocative actions and to act as a team player , and life goes on . Following the controversy over support for Egypt 's Morsi , for example , Doha contributed troops and aircraft in support of Saudi Arabia 's problematic intervention in Yemen . <p> Kuwait appears to be playing the role of regional mediator at the moment , but Qatar is continuing to publicly assert its independent streak . Al-Thani very publicly invited the Muslim Brotherhood 's leading ( and exiled ) Egyptian ideologue Yusuf al-Qaradawi to a post-fasting iftar meal the evening after the announcement , while a draft agreement for basing Turkish military personnel in Qatar was rushed through Ankara 's parliament in a show of support for the Emir from President Recep Tayyip Erdogan . <p> Qatar 's good relations with Muslim Brotherhood-aligned groups and individuals have been a particular point of friction . From its hosting of former Hamas leader Khaled Meshaal and the exiled ideologue Qaradawi , through to its close relationship with an increasingly Islamist Turkey under Erdogan 's Muslim Brotherhood-inspired Justice and Development Party ( AKP ) , its approach was seen as unnecessarily provocative . <p> Gulf states ' concerns surrounding political Islam are even greater than they are regarding radical Islam , which is considered a security rather than an existential threat . But political Islamists such as the Muslim Brotherhood offer what violent Islamists do n't -- an alternative governance system attainable through the ballot box . So significant a threat is the Brotherhood seen in the post-Morsi ? period that it was declared a proscribed terrorist group by Saudi Arabia , the kingdom of Bahrain and the UAE in 2014 . Egypt had proscribed it at the end of 2013 . <p> There is little doubt Saudi Arabia is trying to teach Qatar a lesson and using this very public dispute as a warning to others regarding the levels of Sunni Arab disunity that will be tolerated . <p> It is also another element in the increasingly assertive approach towards Iran being demonstrated by Riyadh . <p> Riyadh demands a united Arab front against Iran , while Qatar considers Saudi and UAE concerns over Tehran overblown . Qatar 's views are tempered by the fact it shares ownership of the world 's largest offshore gas field with Iran , but not everyone is convinced their relations are purely commercial . Qatar and Iran have both backed Hamas in Gaza , and the rather opaque negotiations concluded in May for the release of 26 Qatari hunters captured by the pro-Iranian Iraqi Shia militia Kata'ib Hezbollah in December 2015 in southern Iraq have drawn criticism . Reports of negotiations being held with Iran to secure the hunters ' release and allegations of hundreds of millions of dollars being paid by the Qatari government without the knowledge of the Iraqi government to pro-Iran ? ian non-state militias as part of the deal were not well received . <p> The public statements surrounding the reasons for cutting off diplomatic relations with Qatar varied between states ; however , they generally referred to Qatar 's complicity in supporting terrorism as well as Iranian interests . <p> There is , of course , some irony in Riyadh criticising Qatar for financing terrorism given the lack of oversight relating to private Saudi financial donations to such groups , as well as the fact Saudi nationals have been among the highest number of foreign fighters with Islamic State during the US occupation of Iraq and more recently in Syria and Iraq . <p> As one analyst has noted about the double standards involved in Riyadh accusing Doha of promoting extremism : " Qatar 's problem is n't that it has supported Islamists ; it 's that it 's supported the wrong Islamists . " <p> But Saudi Arabian money speaks . Its 28 registered lobbyists in Washington have been busy providing a Saudi viewpoint on issues , particularly Iran , and senior UAE and Saudi visitors to Washington preceded Donald Trump 's visit to Riyadh in May . The Saudis provided a lavish welcome to the US President during last month 's visit and promised to invest heavily in US infrastructure , a favourite Trump topic . It is likely that Saudi Arabia believes it can achieve a policy convergence on regional security with the Trump administration that it never had with the Obama administration . And in the immediate ? aftermath of Trump 's visit to Riyadh , Bahrain 's violent crackdown on Shia protesters , Riyadh 's ratcheting up of security operations in its Shia-majority Eastern Province and the harsh measures taken against Qatar are likely opportunistic and a way of testing the degree of Washington 's interest in reining in Saudi responses to what the latter perceives as threats to its authority . <p> Normally events in the Gulf region are of little concern to Australia other than for trade or the safety of their nationals , but the strength of the regional response against Qatar raises some potentially uncomfortable questions for Canberra . With a major military base in the UAE and military personnel in Qatar and Bahrain , the actions of these governments become pertinent to Australia . <p> Should we continue to base military personnel in Bahrain when its government continues to discriminate against its Shia population and to limit free speech ? And with Abu Dhabi and Riyadh seemingly focused on confronting what they like to portray as an omnipotent Iran , how neutral can Australia stay , given our major military base in the UAE -- particularly in view of the fact Washington appears to be much more closely aligned to Saudi Arabian and UAE views of the ? regional security landscape , especially on the subject of Iran 's intentions , than was the Obama administration . 
@@71502209 <p> The initiative itself is ' designed to effect rapid and positive change in the Palestinian economy ' and focus ' on catalyzing private sector-led growth in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip ' : <p> The initiative aspires to rapidly grow the Palestinian economy spanning the entirety of the West Bank including Area C and the Gaza Strip over a three-year period from 2014-2016 . It also aims to achieve a significant reduction in joblessness , a substantial increase in average Palestinian household income , a large surge in investment flows - both domestic and foreign - and a significant decline in PA reliance on direct budgetary assistance . <p> The initiative also aims to engender , over the medium-term , a substantial shift in the Palestinian economy toward private sector-led development . By focusing on the growth of key private industries , assisted by a mix of enabling factors , the initiative aims to shift the Palestinian economy towards a model of private sector-led development and economic sustainability ahead of eventual Palestinian statehood . <p> This kind of ' economy first ' argument is not new . <p> ' Economic independence and national prosperity ' were key components of the Salam Fayyad Government 's ' Ending the Occupation , Establishing the State ' program , which received billions in international financial assistance at the Paris Donors Conference in 2007 . And there was a sustained period of West Bank economic growth post-2007 , with GDP growth reaching 12% in 2008 and staying above 8% through 2011 . However , as the Quartet report indicates , growth slowed in 2012 and 2013 , as a result of ' regional instability , political deadlock between the Israelis and the Palestinians , donor fatigue , and the absence of continued and broad-based Israeli measures to ease restrictions on Palestinian economic life ' . <p> This slowdown has exposed the distorted nature of the economy and its artificial reliance on donor-financed consumption ... Private investment has averaged a mere 15 percent of GDP over the past seven years , compared with rates of over 25 percent in vigorous middle income countries . <p> The World Bank argues that easing movement and economic activity restrictions in Area C -- that proportion of the West Bank under both Israeli security and civil control -- would result in substantial gains for the Palestinian economy . ' Area C is key to future Palestinian economic development ... Palestinian prosperity continues to lie in in the removal of restrictions with due regard for Israel 's security . ' According to the World Bank , if businesses and farms were allowed to develop in Area C it could add up to 35% to Palestinian GDP . <p> The Quartet report too argues for an easing of restrictions in Area C. It also notes that its plan has already been submitted to Israel and the Palestinian Authority for review . 
@@71506795 <p> The World Bank and the United Nations have warned that the territory 's economy has collapsed and living conditions are dire . <h> Gaza protesters want the blockade to end <p> Dr Abusada says Hamas insists the protests are a genuine expression of people 's unhappiness about the situation in Gaza . <p> " Hamas is saying the Palestinians are sick and tired of the siege , the Palestinians are no longer able to survive this Israeli siege and blockade , that the Palestinians have no future in Gaza , " he said . <p> " They see no future at the moment and they are no longer able to survive this deteriorating humanitarian situation in Gaza . " <p> Israel has brought more troops and weaponry to the border in response to the recent unrest . <p> " The Chief of Staff ... and senior IDF and ISA Israeli Security Agency officials decided on widescale reinforcements in the southern command in the coming days and the continuation of a determined policy to thwart terror activity and prevent infiltrations into Israel from the Gaza Strip , " the IDF said in a statement . <p> But former military officer Ofer Shelah , now an opposition member of parliament on Israel 's Defence and Foreign Relations Committee , believes the solution is to improve conditions inside Gaza and weaken residents ' trust in Hamas . <p> " The problem is when you have a desperate population in Gaza it 's easy for Hamas to manoeuvre them their way to use them as a human shield for their aggression against Israel , " he said . <p> " We must do whatever we can to separate them , and once Hamas can not use them as a human shield the possibility of a major clash decreases in a great way . " <p> Israel and Hamas both say a long-running conflict between Hamas , which governs Gaza , and the Palestinian Authority , which administers the West Bank , is making it harder to improve conditions in Gaza . <p> Ofer Shelah says Palestinian Authority ( PA ) President Mahmoud Abbas is responsible for many of the problems in Gaza , because the PA restricts the importation of fuel for electricity generation , and salaries for public servants . <p> " When he Mr Abbas stops money going to Gaza , when he does his worst to hinder the movement of funds from other sources , then he 's trying to push Israel and Hamas to war in which his people will be the primary sufferers . " <h> Smoke and fire used to disrupt Israeli communities close to border <p> The protests are starting to affect Israeli communities close to the border as well . <p> For months Gazans have been sending kites and balloons with incendiary devices attached over the border to set fire to crops . <p> But southern district fire service commander Schmulik Friedman says the protesters have recently started trying to cover communities near the border with toxic smoke . <p> " What they are trying to do is make a lot of smoke that goes on these villages and makes them impossible to breathe , " he said . <p> " The smoke is very poisonous and of course it 's very hard to breathe it and it 's not good for health and they try to cover all the villages with smoke . " <p> Firefighters are experimenting with using giant ventilators and plumes of water to push the smoke away . 
@@71507913 <h> The days of peaceful protest in Palestine may soon be over <p> 17-year-old Ahed Tamimi was detained after slapping the face of an Israeli soldier who attacked her house and shot her cousin in the head with a rubber bullet ( Image via #FreeAhedTamimi / @AlTamimiAhed ) <p> Dr Ibraham Natil says the current wave of peaceful protest by Palestinians is at risk of becoming militant unless certain steps are taken . <p> Today , Palestinians have been engaging in a different wave of popular resistance/protest without classical or underground hierarchical leadership since Trump 's Proclamation on Jerusalem . This six weeks of protest is unlike the First Uprising during 1987-1993 or the Second Uprising of 2000-2004 . Since 2000 , the Palestinian society has already lost hope in the failed Oslo Peace Process with Israel . This process of illusion increases the Israeli expansion settlements and settlers in the West Bank , the collective punishment policies , including the siege on the Gaza Strip , that have already deteriorated human security at all levels . <p> Young people , however , confront the occupation peacefully in the current protests , supported by all spectrums of the society . Prior to the outbreak of the current wave of popular resistance , young people -- those aged between 16 and 30 years -- suffered a high number of human rights violations , poverty , lack of opportunities , as well as the absence of hope for living in peace and dignity after years of Israeli colonialism and restrictions . They lead the current popular resistance in order to change the status quo , as the various factions , including Hamas , have failed to fulfil the Palestinian national project , either through negotiation in the West Bank or armed resistance in the Gaza Strip . <p> Since Trump 's decision to recognise Jerusalem as Israel 's capital on 6 December , there have been a number young people making headlines in the mainstream media and on social networks . Three stories , however , best represent the symbols of current wave of peaceful resistance . <h> The Symbols <p> First , the image of Ahed Tamimi , a 17-year-old Palestinian girl who was detained from her home in the early hours of 19 December is considered one of the most important image of the wave today . Ahed 's image of resisting the Israeli soldiers peacefully in her village Nabi Saheh had already been circulating online since she started participating in peaceful protests every Friday since the age of seven . In a protest against Trump 's proclamation , she slapped the face of an Israeli soldier who attacked her house and shot her cousin in the head with a rubber bullet . The Israelis considered the soldiers image of non-reaction humiliating as the story made headlines in many major media outlets , leading to her detention . <p> Palestinian teen Ahed Tamimi is one of four women in her family who have been arrested in the past 2 weeks . **26;2092;TOOLONG <p> The second story is that of Fawzi al-Junaidi , a 16-year-old boy from Hebron who was arrested just a few days after protests broke out . He was handcuffed , blindfolded and surrounded by at least 20 Israeli soldiers . <p> The third symbol is that of Ibrahim Abu Thurayyah , a 29-year old Palestinian from Gaza who lost both his legs in the 2008 Israeli assault on Gaza . The Israeli sniper killed him while he was in his own wheelchair , waving a Palestinian flag beside the fence between the Gaza Strip on 15 December . <p> Despite the fact of these sacrifices , the entire Palestinian society is still in desperate need of a future collective political programme that invests in the current popular resistance . <h> The future of unarmed resistance <p> Prior to this wave , the future of unarmed resistance in Palestine was uncertain after the long Israeli strategy of maintaining the status quo of occupation and expansion of the Israeli Jewish setlements . <p> The Palestinian factions must agree first on a collective strategy or a national plan and then they will be better placed to advise young people on the future of the current resistance . If the political factions participate today in the current wave of resistance , without national consensus , they will work individually and this will complicate the status quo of the current wave of popular resistance and deepen the wounds of Palestinian society . <p> To fortify this six weeks of protest and sustain it as a popular , civil and peaceful resistance uprising , the Palestinians factions and groups must undertake as follows : <p> To establish a non-conventional ' united leadership ' representing all spectrums of the Palestinian society in the occupied territories to undertake the events of the uprising collectively . <p> The PLO and all the Palestinian factions together must serve the Palestinian people by having a national consensus regarding the current wave of popular resistance . <p> Awareness must be raised of the local Palestinians of boycotting the Israeli goods and commodities in the Occupied Palestinian Territories . <p> The " united leadership " of Palestinians must bear responsibility and be careful to avoid being dragged into armed resistance in the Gaza Strip and/or the West Bank . This leadership must be vigilant in reacting to Israeli policies aimed at changing the direction of popular resistance , as it did in both the First and Second Uprisings . <p> There are , however , voices who argue that the Gazans have suffered more than enough during the past few years . Excessive use of force by Israel against unarmed people who protest beside the security fence between the Gaza Strip and Israel , however , might divert the current wave into an armed conflict in the Gaza Strip . <p> I think that if Israel fails to stop the current wave of popular resistance , it might provoke the Palestinian factions , dragging them into a new bout of armed confrontation in the Gaza Strip to end it . <p> IA is dedicated to providing fearless , independent journalism , free for all , with no barriers . But we need your help . To keep us speaking truth to power , please consider donating to IA today - even a dollar will make a huge difference - or subscribe and receive all the benefits of membership . Keep ' em honest . Support IA. 
@@71507935 <p> " THERE IS a taboo on telling the truth about Palestine and the great destructive force behind Israel . Only when this truth is out can any of us be free . " <p> For many people , the truth is out now . <p> At last , they know . Those once intimidated into silence ca n't look away now . Staring at them from their TV , laptop , phone is proof of the barbarism of the Israeli state and the great destructive force of its mentor and provider , the United States , the cowardice of European governments and the collusion of others -- such as Canada and Australian -- in this epic crime . <p> The attack on Gaza was an attack on all of us . The siege of Gaza is a siege of all of us . The denial of justice to Palestinians is a symptom of much of humanity under siege and a warning that the threat of a new world war is growing by the day . <p> When Nelson Mandela called the struggle of Palestine " the greatest moral issue of our time " , he spoke on behalf of true civilisation , not that which empires invent . <p> In Latin America , the governments of Brazil , Chile , Venezuela , Bolivia , El Salvador , Peru and Ecuador have made their stand on Gaza . Each of these countries has known its own dark silence when immunity for mass murder was sponsored by the same godfather in Washington that answered the cries of children in Gaza with more ammunition to kill them . <p> Unlike Netanyahu and his killers , Washington 's pet fascists in Latin America did n't concern themselves with moral window dressing . They simply murdered , and left the bodies on rubbish dumps . For Zionism , the goal is the same : to dispossess and ultimately destroy an entire human society -- a truth that 225 Holocaust survivors and their descendants have compared with the genesis of genocide . <p> Nothing has changed since the Zionists ' ' infamous " Plan D " in 1948 that ethnically cleansed an entire people . <p> Recently , on the website of the Times of Israel were the words : ' Genocide is Permissible ' . A deputy speaker of the Knesset , the Israeli parliament , Moshe Feiglin , demands a policy of mass expulsion into concentration camps . An MP , Ayelet Shaked , whose party is a member of the governing coalition , calls for the extermination of Palestinian mothers to prevent them giving birth to what she calls " little snakes " . <p> For years , reporters have watched Israeli soldiers bait Palestinian children by abusing them through loud-speakers . Then they shoot them dead . For years , reporters have known about Palestinian women about to give birth and refused passage through a roadblock to a hospital -- and the baby has died , and sometimes the mother . <p> For years , reporters have known about Palestinian doctors and ambulance crews given permission by Israeli commanders to attend the wounded or remove the dead , only to be shot through the head . <p> For years , reporters have known about stricken people prevented from getting life-saving treatment , or shot dead when they 've tried to reach a clinic for chemotherapy treatment . One elderly lady with a walking stick was murdered in this way -- a bullet in her back . <p> When I put the facts of this crime to Dori Gold , a senior adviser to the Israeli prime minister , he said : <p> " Unfortunately in every kind of warfare there are cases of civilians who are accidentally killed . But the case you cite was not terrorism . Terrorism means putting the cross-hairs of the sniper 's rifle on a civilian deliberately . " <p> I replied : <p> " That 's exactly what happened . " <p> He said : <p> " No , it did not happen . " <p> Such a lie or delusion is repeated unerringly by Israel ' ' s apologists . As the former New York Times reporter , Chris Hedges , points out , the reporting of such an atrocity invariably ends up as " caught in the cross-fire " . <p> For as long as I have covered the Middle East , much if not most of the western media has colluded in this way . <p> In one of my films , a Palestinian cameraman , Imad Ghanem , lies helpless while soldiers from the " most moral army in the world " blew both his legs off . This atrocity was given two lines on the BBC website . <p> Thirteen journalists were killed by Israel in its latest bloodfest in Gaza . All were Palestinian . Who knows their names ? <p> Something is different now . There is a huge revulsion across the world ; and the voices of sensible liberalism are worried . Their hand wringing and specious choir of " equal blame " and " Israel ' ' s right to defend itself " will not wash any more ; neither will the smear of anti-Semitism . Neither will their selective cry that " something must be done " about Islamic fanatics but nothing must be done about Zionist fanatics . <p> One sensible liberal voice , the novelist Ian McEwan , was being celebrated as a sage by the Guardian while the children of Gaza were blown to bits . This is the same Ian McEwan who ignored the pleading of Palestinians not to accept the Jerusalem Prize for literature . <p> Said McEwan : <p> " If I only went to countries that I approve of , I probably would never get out of bed . " <p> If they could speak , the dead of Gaza might say : Stay in bed , great novelist , for your very presence smoothes the bed of racism , apartheid , ethnic cleansing and murder -- no matter the weasel words you uttered as you claimed your prize . <p> Understanding the sophistry and power of liberal propaganda is key to understanding why Israel 's outrages endure ; why the world looks on ; why sanctions are never applied to Israel ; and why nothing less than a total boycott of everything Israeli is now a measure of basic human decency . <p> The most incessant propaganda says Hamas is committed to the destruction of Israel . <p> Khaled Hroub , the Cambridge University scholar considered a world leading authority on Hamas , says this phrase is <p> " ... never used or adopted by Hamas , even in its most radical statements . " <p> " ... one individual and made public without appropriate Hamas consensus .... The author was one of the ' ' old guard . ' ' <p> The document is regarded as an embarrassment and never cited . <p> Hamas has repeatedly offered a 10-year truce with Israel and has long settled for a two-state solution . When Medea Benjamin , the fearless Jewish American activist , was in Gaza , she carried a letter from Hamas leaders to President Obama that made clear the government of Gaza wanted peace with Israel . It was ignored . I personally know of many such letters carried in good faith , ignored or dismissed . <p> The unforgivable crime of Hamas is a distinction almost never reported : it is the only Arab government to have been freely and democratically elected by its people . Worse , it has now formed a government of unity with the Palestinian Authority . A single , resolute Palestinian voice -- in the General Assembly , the Human Rights Council and the International Criminal Court -- is the most feared threat . <p> ( image by John Graham ) <p> Since 2002 , a pioneering media unit at Glasgow University has produced remarkable studies of reporting and propaganda in Israel/Palestine . Professor Greg Philo and his colleagues were shocked to find a public ignorance compounded by TV news reporting . The more people watched , the less they knew . <p> Greg Philo says the problem is not " bias " as such . Reporters and producers are as moved as anyone by the suffering of Palestinians ; but so imposing is the power structure of the media -- as an extension of the state and its vested interests -- that critical facts and historical context are routinely suppressed . <p> Incredibly , less than nine per cent of young viewers interviewed by Professor Philo 's team were aware that Israel was the occupying power , and that the illegal settlers were Jewish ; many believed them to be Palestinian . The term " Occupied Territories " was seldom explained . Words such as " murder " , " atrocity " , " cold-blooded killing " were used only to describe the deaths of Israelis . <p> Recently , a BBC reporter , David Loyn , was critical of another British journalist , Jon Snow of Channel 4 News . Snow was so moved by what he had seen in Gaza he went on YouTube to make a humanitarian appeal . What concerned the BBC man was that Snow had breached protocol and been emotional in his YouTube piece . <p> " Emotion , " <p> wrote Loyn , <p> " is the stuff of propaganda and news is against propaganda " . <p> Did he write this with a straight face ? In fact , Snow 's delivery was calm . His crime was to have strayed outside the boundaries of fake impartiality . Unforgivably , he did n't censor himself . <p> In 1937 , with Adolf Hitler in power , Geoffrey Dawson , editor of The Times in London , wrote the following in his diary : <p> " I spend my nights in taking out anything which will hurt German susceptibilities and in dropping in little things which are intended to soothe them . " <p> On 30 July , the BBC offered viewers a masterclass in the Dawson Principle . The diplomatic correspondent of the program Newsnight , Mark Urban , gave five reasons why the Middle East was in turmoil . None included the historic or contemporary role of the British government . The Cameron government 's dispatch of ? 8 billion worth of arms and military equipment to Israel was airbrushed . Britain 's massive arms shipment to Saudi Arabia was airbrushed . Britain 's role in the destruction of Libya was airbrushed . Britain 's support for the tyranny in Egypt was airbrushed . <p> As for the British invasions of Iraq and Afghanistan , they did n't happen , either . <p> The only expert witness on this BBC programme was an academic called Toby Dodge from the London School of Economics . What viewers needed to know was that Dodge had been a special adviser to David Petraeus , the American general largely responsible for the disasters in Iraq and Afghanistan . But this , too , was airbrushed . <p> In matters of war and peace , BBC-style illusions of impartiality and credibility do more to limit and control public discussion than tabloid distortion . As Greg Philo pointed out , Jon Snow 's moving commentary on YouTube was limited to whether the Israeli assault on Gaza was proportionate or reasonable . What was missing -- and is almost always missing -- was the essential truth of the longest military occupation in modern times : a criminal enterprise backed by western governments from Washington to London to Canberra . <p> As for the myth that " vulnerable " and " isolated " Israel is surrounded by enemies , Israel is actually surrounded by strategic allies . The Palestinian Authority , bankrolled , armed and directed by the U.S. , has long colluded with Tel Aviv . Standing shoulder to shoulder with Netanyahu are the tyrannies in Egypt , Jordan , Saudi Arabia , the United Arab Emirates , Bahrain , Qatar . If the World Cup ever gets to Qatar , count on Mossad to run the security . <p> Resistance is humanity at its bravest and most noble . The resistance in Gaza is rightly compared with the 1943 Jewish uprising in the Warsaw Ghetto -- which also dug tunnels and deployed tactics of subterfuge and surprise against an overpowering military machine . The last surviving leader of the Warsaw uprising , Marek Edelman , wrote a letter of solidarity to the Palestinian resistance , comparing it with the ZOB , his ghetto fighters . The letter began : <p> " Commanders of the Palestine military , paramilitary and partisan operations -- and to all soldiers of Palestine . " <p> Dr. Mads Gilbert is a Norwegian doctor renowned for his heroic work in Gaza . On 8 August , Dr. Gilbert returned to his hometown , Tronso in Norway which , as he pointed out , the Nazis had occupied for seven years . He said : <p> " Imagine being back in 1945 and we in Norway did not win the liberation struggle , did not throw out the occupier . Imagine the occupier remaining in our country , taking it piece by piece , for decades upon decades , and banishing us to the leanest areas , and taking the fish in the sea and the water beneath us , then bombing our hospitals , our ambulance workers , our schools , our homes . <p> " Would we have given up and waved the white flag ? No , we would not ! And this is the situation in Gaza . This is not a battle between terrorism and democracy . Hamas is not the enemy Israel is fighting . Israel is waging a war against the Palestinian people 's will to resist . It is the Palestinian people 's dignity that they will not accept this . <p> " In 1938 , the Nazis called the Jews Untermenschen -- subhuman . Today , Palestinians are treated as a subhuman people who can be slaughtered without any in power reacting . <p> " So I have returned to Norway , a free country , and this country is free because we had a resistance movement , because occupied nations have the right to resist , even with weapons -- it 's stated in international law . And the Palestinian people 's resistance in Gaza is admirable : a struggle for us all . " <p> There are dangers in telling this truth , in breaching what Edward Said called " the last taboo " . My documentary , Palestine Is Still the Issue , was nominated for a Bafta , a British academy award , and praised by the Independent Television Commission for its " journalistic integrity " and the " care and thoroughness with which it was researched . " Yet , within minutes of the film 's broadcast on Britain 's ITV Network , a shock wave struck -- a deluge of emails described me as a " demonic psychopath " , " a purveyor of hate and evil " , " an anti-Semite of the most dangerous kind " . Much of this was orchestrated by Zionists in the U.S. who could not possibly have seen the film . Death threats arrived at a rate of one a day . <p> Something similar happened to the Australian commentator , Mike Carlton , last month . In his regular column in the Sydney Morning Herald , Carlton produced a rare piece of journalism about Israel and the Palestinians ; he identified the oppressors and their victims . He was careful to limit his attack to " a new and brutal Israel dominated by the hard-line , right-wing Likud party of Netanyahu " . Those who had previously run the Zionist state , he implied , belonged to " a proud liberal tradition " . <p> On cue , the deluge struck . He was called " a bag of Nazi slime , a Jew-hating racist . " He was threatened repeatedly , and he emailed his attackers to " get fucked " . <p> The Herald demanded he apologise . When he refused , he was suspended , then he resigned . According to the Herald 's publisher , Sean Aylmer , the company " expects much higher standards from its columnists . " <p> The " problem " of Carlton ' ' s acerbic , often solitary liberal voice in a country in which Rupert Murdoch controls 70 per cent of the capital city press -- Australia is the world ' ' s first murdocracy -- would be solved twice over . The Australian Human Rights Commission is to investigate complaints against Carlton under the Racial Discrimination Act , which outlaws any public act or utterance that is ' reasonably likely ... to offend , insult , humiliate another person or a group of people ' on the basic of their race , colour or national or ethnic origin . <p> In contrast to safe , silent Australia -- where the Carltons are made extinct -- real journalism is alive in Gaza . I often speak on the phone with Mohammed Omer , an extraordinary young Palestinian journalist , to whom I presented , in 2008 , the Martha Gellhorn Prize for Journalism . Whenever I called him during the assault on Gaza , I could hear the whine of drones , the explosion of missiles . He interrupted one call to attend to children huddled outside waiting for transport amidst the explosions . When I spoke to him on 30 July , a single Israeli F-19 fighter had just slaughtered 19 children . On 20 August , he described how Israeli drones had effectively " rounded up " a village so that they could savagely gunned down . <p> Every day , at sunrise , Mohammed looks for families who have been bombed . He records their stories , standing in the rubble of their homes ; he takes their pictures . He goes to the hospital . He goes to the morgue . He goes to the cemetery . He queues for hours for bread for his own family . And he watches the sky . He sends two , three , four dispatches a day . This is real journalism . <p> " They are trying to annihilate us , " <p> he told me . <p> " But the more they bomb us , the stronger we are . They will never win . " <p> The great crime committed in Gaza is a reminder of something wider and menacing to us all . <p> Since 2001 , the United States and its allies have been on a rampage . In Iraq , at least 700,000 men , woman and children are dead as a result . The rise of jihadists -- in a country where there was none -- is the result . Known as al-Qaeda and now the Islamic State , modern jihadism was invented by U.S. and Britain , assisted by Pakistan and Saudi Arabia . <p> The original aim was to use and develop an Islamic fundamentalism that had barely existed in much of the Arab world in order to undermine pan-Arab movements and secular governments . By the 1980s , this had become a weapon to destroy the Soviet Union in Afghanistan . The CIA called it Operation Cyclone ; and a cyclone it turned out to be , with its unleashed fury blowing back in the faces of its creators . <p> The attacks of 9/11 and in London in July , 2005 were the result of this blowback , as were the recent , gruesome murders of the American journalists James Foley and Steven Sotloff . For more than a year , the Obama administration armed the killers of these two young men -- then known as ISIS in Syria -- in order to destroy the secular government in Damascus . <p> The West ' ' s principal " ally " in this imperial mayhem is the medieval state where beheadings are routinely and judicially carried out -- Saudi Arabia . Whenever a member of the British Royal Family is sent to this barbaric place , you can bet your bottom petrodollar that the British government wants to sell the sheiks more fighter planes , missiles , manacles . Most of the 9/11 hijackers came from Saudi Arabia , which bankrolls jihadists from Syria to Iraq . <p> Why must we live in this state of perpetual war ? <p> The immediate answer lies in the United States , where a secret and unreported coup has taken place . A group known as the Project for a New American Century , the inspiration of Dick Cheney and others , came to power with the administration of George W Bush . Once known in Washington as the " crazies " , this extreme sect believes in what the U.S. Space Command calls " full spectrum dominance " . <p> Under both Bush and Obama , a 19th-century imperial mentality has infused all departments of state . Raw militarism is ascendant ; diplomacy is redundant . Nations and governments are judged as useful or expendable : to be bribed or threatened or " sanctioned " . <p> On 31 July , the National Defense Panel in Washington published a remarkable document that called for the United States to prepare to fight six major wars simultaneously . At the top of the list were Russia and China -- nuclear powers . <p> In one sense , a war against Russia has already begun . While the world watched horrified as Israel assaulted Gaza , similar atrocities in eastern Ukraine were barely news . At the time of writing , two Ukrainian cities of Russian-speaking people -- Donetsk and Luhansk -- are under siege : their people and hospitals and schools blitzed by a regime in Kiev that came to power in a putsch led by neo-Nazis backed and paid for by the United States . <p> The coup was the climax of what the Russian political observer Sergei Glaziev describes as a 20-year " grooming of Ukrainian Nazis aimed at Russia " . Actual fascism has risen again in Europe and not one European leader has spoken against it , perhaps because the rise of fascism across Europe is now a truth that dares not speak its name . <p> With its fascist past , and present , Ukraine is now a CIA theme park , a colony of NATO and the International Monetary Fund . The fascist coup in Kiev in February was the boast of U.S. assistant secretary of state Victoria Nuland , whose " coup budget " ran to $5 billion . <p> But there was a setback . Moscow prevented the seizure of its legitimate Black Sea naval base in Russian-speaking Crimea . A referendum and annexation quickly followed . Represented in the West as the Kremlin ' ' s " aggression " , this serves to turn truth on its head and cover Washington ' ' s goals : to drive a wedge between a " pariah " Russia and its principal trading partners in Europe and eventually to break up the Russian Federation . <p> American missiles already surround Russia ; NATO 's military build-up in the former Soviet republics and eastern Europe is the biggest since the second world war . <p> During the cold war , this would have risked a nuclear holocaust . The risk has returned as anti-Russian misinformation reaches crescendos of hysteria in the U.S. and Europe . <p> A textbook case is the shooting down of a Malaysian airliner in July . Without a single piece of evidence , the U.S. and its NATO allies and their media machines blamed ethnic Russian " separatists " in Ukraine and implied that Moscow was ultimately responsible . <p> An editorial in The Economist accused Vladimir Putin of mass murder . The cover of Der Spiegel used faces of the victims and bold red type , ' Stoppt Putin Jetzt ! ' ( Stop Putin Now ! ) In the New York Times , Timothy Garton Ash substantiated his case for ' Putin 's deadly doctrine ' with personal abuse of " a short , thickset man with a rather ratlike face " . <p> The Guardian 's role has been important . Renowned for its investigations , the newspaper has made no serious attempt to examine who shot the aeroplane down and why , even though a wealth of material from credible sources shows that Moscow was as shocked as the rest of the world , and the airliner may well have been brought down by the Ukrainian regime . <p> ( Why did the BBC pull this news video showing witnesses claiming they saw a military aircraft flying beside MH17 ? ) <p> With the White House offering no verifiable evidence -- even though US satellites would have observed the shooting-down -- the Guardian 's Moscow correspondent Shaun Walker stepped into the breach . <p> ' My audience with the Demon of Donetsk ' was the front- page headline over Walker ' ' s breathless interview with one Igor Bezler , where he wrote : <p> ' With a walrus moustache , a fiery temper and a reputation for brutality , Igor Bezler is the most feared of all the rebel leaders in eastern Ukraine ... nicknamed The Demon ... If the Ukrainian security services , the SBU , are to be believed , the Demon and a group of his men were responsible for shooting down Malaysia Airlines flight MH17 ... as well as allegedly bringing down MH17 , the rebels have shot down 10 Ukrainian aircraft . ' <p> Demon Journalism requires no further evidence . <p> Demon Journalism makes over a fascist-contaminated junta that seized power in Kiev as a respectable " interim government " . Neo-Nazis become mere " nationalists " . " News " sourced to the Kiev junta ensures the suppression of a U.S.-run coup and the junta ' ' s systematic ethnic cleaning of the Russian-speaking population of eastern Ukraine . <p> That this should happen in the borderland through which the original Nazis invaded Russia , extinguishing some 22 Russian lives , is of no interest . What matters is a Russian " invasion " of Ukraine that seems difficult to prove beyond familiar satellite images that evoke Colin Powell ' ' s fictional presentation to the United Nations " proving " that Saddam Hussein had WMD . <p> Wrote a group of former senior U.S. intelligence officials and analysts , the Veteran Intelligence Professionals for Sanity , to German Chancellor Angela Merkel : <p> ' You need to know that accusations of a major Russian ' invasion ' of Ukraine appear not to be supported by reliable intelligence . Rather , the ' intelligence ' seems to be of the same dubious , politically ' fixed ' kind used 12 years ago to ' justify ' the U.S.-led attack on Iraq . ' <p> The jargon is " controlling the narrative " . In his seminal Culture and Imperialism , Edward Said was more explicit : the western media machine was now capable of penetrating deep into the consciousness of much of humanity with a " wiring " as influential as that of the imperial navies of the 19th century . Gunboat journalism , in other words . Or war by media . <p> Yet , a critical public intelligence and resistance to propaganda does exist ; and a second superpower is emerging -- the power of public opinion , fuelled by the internet and social media . <p> The false reality created by false news delivered by media gatekeepers may prevent some of us knowing that this new superpower is stirring in country after country : from the Americas to Europe , Asia to Africa . It is a moral insurrection , exemplified by the whistleblowers Edward Snowden , Chelsea Manning and Julian Assange . The question begs : will we break our silence while there is time ? <p> When I was last in Gaza , driving back to the Israeli checkpoint , I caught sight of two Palestinian flags through the razor wire . Children had made flagpoles out of sticks tied together and they 'd climbed on a wall and held the flag between them . <p> The children do this , I was told , whenever there are foreigners around , because they want to show the world they are there -- alive , and brave , and undefeated . <p> IA is dedicated to providing fearless , independent journalism , free for all , with no barriers . But we need your help . To keep us speaking truth to power , please consider donating to IA today - even a dollar will make a huge difference - or subscribe and receive all the benefits of membership . Keep ' em honest . Support IA. 
@@71522906 <p> The Executive Council of Australian Jewry has slammed WA Labor 's decision to run former Fremantle MP Melissa Parke in a bid to win Julie Bishop 's seat of Curtin . <p> Ms Parke , who has been an outspoken defender of Palestine and a supporter of an economic and cultural boycott of Israel , was chosen by Labor on the weekend to contest the blue-ribbon seat in the hope her high profile would divert Liberal resources away from its marginal seat campaigns . <p> Labor 's candidate for Curtin Melissa Parke has raised the ire of the Jewish community with her strident support for Palestine.Credit:Marina Neil <p> WAtoday has obtained audio of a speech Ms Parke delivered just a month ago at the launch of WA Labor Friends of Palestine in which she said Australia should recognise a Palestinian state and likened Israel 's settlements to China 's island building activity in the South China Sea . <p> She also took aim at Israel 's influence in Australian politics and said there was no doubt Palestinian rocket attacks on Israel , while illegal under international law , were " a reaction to and a consequence of decades of brutal occupation " . <p> Advertisement <p> Ms Parke , a former lawyer for the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in Gaza , said Australia had to break away from its " strategic dependence " on the United States and recognise Palestine as a state , which is contrary to Labor policy . <p> " There are already 137 nations that recognise the state of Palestine , that is more than 70 per cent of the world , " she said . <p> " And , inshallah Arabic for ' God willing ' , Australia will join that consensus once we have a Federal Labor government . <p> " It 's also time finally for Australia to support an end to the brutal occupation of Palestine and for the right of return of the Palestinian refugees . " <p> ECAJ chief executive Alex Ryvchin said he had conveyed his concerns about Ms Parke to several Labor figures . <p> He said Ms Parke had the " inglorious distinction " of being the first , and only , Labor MP to publicly endorse the Boycott , Divestment , Sanctions campaign , which seeks to force Israel to withdraw from occupied or contested territories and aims at " the complete and total isolation of the state of Israel and to dismantle the national home of the Jewish people " . <p> " BDS was rightly condemned as a form of antisemitism by Julie Bishop , who Ms Parke is now seeking to replace as the federal member for Curtin , " Mr Ryvchin said . <p> " BDS has also expressly been repudiated by the Australian Labor Party and rejected as national policy even by the Greens . <p> " It is regrettable that such an extreme and divisive figure should receive the endorsement of the Australian Labor Party , particularly at a time when it is vital to strengthen the political centre and diminish the appeal of low populism and false and polarising rhetoric . " <p> In her speech to Palestinian supporters , which was held in the Perth offices of the United Voice union , Ms Parke said the discrimination experienced by Palestinians in Israel was because of a " fully fledged system of apartheid " . <p> " It 's absurd but true that an Australian Jew who 's never lived in Israel has more rights in Israel than a Palestinian who was born there , " she said . <p> " A false narrative sold to the Western world is that Israel is a beacon of Western democracy and human rights . " <p> Ms Parke said Israel " propagates the myth that it is a small country that just wants to live in peace " . <p> " Sounds like a David and Goliath scenario , only in this case , Israel is the Goliath , " she said . <p> " The homemade rockets fired indiscriminately from Gaza towards and into Israel , are absolutely unacceptable and illegal under international law , but there is no doubt that they are a reaction to and a consequence of decades of brutal occupation . <p> " And they are no match for the combined power of an elite and well-resourced army , navy and air force . " <p> Loading <p> Ms Parke said the only reason Israel had not been held to account was the " unconditional support it receives from the United States " . <p> She said peace negotiations were not credible when " presided over by a superpower whose support leans heavily to one side " . <p> " If we are truly concerned as a country about foreign influence in Australia , we need to look not only at China , but also Israel , whose influence on our political system and foreign policy is substantial , " Ms Parke said . <p> " To be truly effective on the international stage , Australia needs to break away from its policy of strategic dependence on the US , which has led us into disastrous wars in Vietnam and Iraq and to foreign and defence policy positions counter to our own interests , including unconditional support for Israel . <p> " In short , Australia needs a truly independent foreign policy and I know this is what Shadow Foreign Minister Penny Wong has been advocating for since she came into this position . " <p> A spokesman for Ms Wong said Labor was a strong supporter of the state of Israel and that would never change . <p> " The 2018 ALP conference resolution makes clear Labor 's support for a two-state solution , which recognises the right of Israel and Palestine to exist within secure and recognised borders , " he said . <p> " It recognises the desire of this conference to recognise Palestine as a state , but makes clear that is a matter for a future Labor Government . <p> Loading <p> " Labor does not support the BDS movement . A resolution of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict will only come from open dialogue and discussion between the parties , not from a policy of exclusion . " <p> Ms Parke did not respond to specific questions but , in a statement released on Tuesday by Labor 's campaign headquarters , she said : " I support the current Labor policy " . 
@@82820647 <h> Banksy unveils nativity mural <p> Camera IconBanksy 's latest artwork has been unveiled at The Walled Off Hotel owned by him in Bethlehem . <p> Banky 's latest piece - his take on a nativity scene - has been unveiled at his hotel in Bethlehem . <p> The Scar of Bethlehem artwork features a nativity scene with Mary and Joseph and the baby Jesus - but instead of a star hanging over the crib , there is what appears to be a large bullet hole piercing an imposing grey wall . <p> The piece has appeared in the Walled Off Hotel , Banksy 's property which overlooks the border wall in the divided city . <p> Opened two years ago , the hotel is billed as having " the worst view of any hotel in the world " and is filled with original Banksy artwork . <p> The highlight is room number three , known as Banksy 's Room , where guests sleep in a king-size bed underneath Banksy 's artwork showing a Palestinian and an Israeli having a pillow fight . <p> The artist is known for making political statements with his graffiti , and has made previous forays into the Palestinian territories . <p> In one secret visit , he drew a girl being pulled upwards by balloons on the dividing wall , and he is believed to have sneaked into Gaza to draw four street murals , including one on a metal door that depicted the Greek goddess Niobe cowering against the rubble of a destroyed house . 
