@@61461753 <h> OPINION : The putrid mess of Israeli politics <h> Wednesday December 18 2019 <p> Israeli politics gets messier and messier . Now there is to be yet another election , hard on the heels of the last one which , in turn , was hard on the heels of the one before . <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu appears to have two major aims in life . The first is to remain prime minister for as long as he feels like it . ( He is already Israel 's longest serving premier . ) The second is to escape prison . He has been charged with bribery and graft . Only if he is holding his high office can he escape prosecution . <p> After the recent election , with his Lukud Party not doing well , he discussed the possibility of a coalition with his rival , also a conservative . But a deal was elusive and so it is back to the polls . Many Israelis have talked about the end of Israeli democracy . Avraham Berg , the former speaker of the Knesset ( parliament ) , has written that " democracy in the Jewish state is doomed " . President Richard Nixon predicted that Israel would not last . <p> Minorities are marginalized more than ever , opposition groups , in particular human rights organizations , are smeared and persecuted . Bullying and racism dominate Israel 's political discourse . Leftists are de-legitimized . <p> Ultra-nationalism and the growing religious fanaticism have played to Netanyahu 's advantage . But then he has been the one often encouraging it or at least tolerating it . At the time of the Second Intifada ( the Palestinian uprising ) in 2000 to 2005 in which 1000 Israelis were killed it was understandable why feelings boiled up . But right now and for many years there has been little in the way of a Palestinian violent threat . When Hamas in Gaza started a missile attack FIVE years ago Israeli retaliated with knock-out blows . Many Palestinians were killed but only a handful of Israelis . In a normal , balanced , society one would not have expected the continuation for so long of such angry feelings . Fanaticism is in the Israeli air . I have n't made this up : the Minister of Agriculture , Uri Ariel , of the religious Zionist party , Jewish Home , wrote that neutering street cats contradicts Jewish law . He said that all feral cats should be deported to another country . <p> The right , which always denounces outside interference , unless it 's in their favour , as when President Donald Trump moved the US embassy to Jerusalem , sees no contradiction in wooing foreign money to fund its own political activities . Much of it comes from American Jews . It goes to parties but also to educational establishments and news media . Sheldon Adelson , a Republican mega-donor , has spent 190 million US dollars on launching his pro-Netanyahu free newspaper , Israel Hayom . <p> At the same time funding for left-wing causes is attacked . In the main they get their funding from liberal western governments . This gives an easy opening for the right to attack their sources of money , labelling it correctly as " foreign interference " . All this puts the Israeli left at a disadvantage with public opinion . <p> Israel , like the US and parts of Europe , has been affected by growing anti-establishment feelings . Part of the working class vote has swung against the parties that represent their own economic interests . ( The UK election of last week underlined this movement . ) The Mizrahi , Jews who have descended from Middle Eastern and North African states , are particularly prone to move right . As Asher Schechter writes in a perceptive article on World Policy Journal , " Liberal democracy 's concern with the individual is not shared by Israel 's Jewish working class . Religion , community , the state- which are central to working class identity- appear to be secondary to the secular liberal left " . This split has almost become tribalism , " composed of different ethnic , cultural and religious groups that have little in common " . <p> Against this backdrop Netanyahu goes on ruling , but usually dependent on the small more fanatical parties of the right to give him the coalition he needs . This time he has n't quite made re-election , thwarted by the cloud of criminal wrong-doing that has alienated more centrist voters and by the decision of Israel 's own Arab voters to put their differences aside and fight the election in a unified party . <p> As expected Netanyahu vilifies the Arab Israelis . At the 2015 election he released a video on election day warning Jewish Israelis about " Arab voters rushing to the polls in droves " . Never before has Israeli politics been so anti the Arab Israelis . Even some of the centre-left , desperate for votes , have emulated Netanyahu . At the forthcoming election he will use the Arab 's previous success to scare voters to vote right . As I wrote three weeks ago you can forget Israel accepting a two-state solution . The right have never offered a means of achieving peace with the Palestinians . <p> Whether Netanyahu wins or loses the next election this wo n't change- but if he loses he may go to prison . The Palestinians and the outside liberal world will have to be , for the time being , satisfied with that . 
@@61469286 <h> Search form <h> Turning waste to gold in Gaza <p> Few opportunities await Gaza 's youth after they graduate from university . Unemployment among university graduates aged 19-29 years old in the besieged coastal enclave was just shy of 80 percent last year , according to the Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics . <p> Harnessing their degrees and their desire to create sustainable affordable energy alternatives for their cash-strapped fellow Palestinians in Gaza , the trio founded the Olive Jift Project - a startup that turns " jift " , byproducts from olive oil pressing , into fuel pellets for home heating and cooking . <p> To secure seed funding and valuable mentorship , the three graduates entered their startup idea in a contest run by Danish Church Aid . " Our project won a micro-funding of $5,000 and received technical assistance and coaching from the local NGO Ma'an Development Center , " Tamer told Al Jazeera . <p> Converting jift into fuel pellets costs the company about $150 a tonne , or $0.2 a kilogramme- roughly half the local price of a kilogramme of firewood . <p> " The Jift production begins with grinding fresh olive mill pomace left on the site of the olive press , then we apply chemical treatment to remove the bad smell from Jift burning and reduce its emissions and smoke , " Tamer explained to Al Jazeera . <p> " The final stage is to compress treated olive pomace through a machine specifically designed to make Cylindrical-shaped Jift with a certain amount of air gaps in it . Then , we let it dry in the sun before it 's ready to use . " <p> The founders said the machine they needed for the final stage of production would have set them back $11,000 , more than double their available seed capital , so they pooled their engineering knowhow to build the equipment themselves . <p> " Together , we built our own machine from scratch at a local workshop , and it ended up costing only $3,000 , including the damages we incurred in the first few failed attempts , " Tamer said . <p> The team hopes to make a meaningful impact , if even on a micro-level , by creating a sustainable product that is affordable to Gaza 's residents and helps alleviate chronic energy shortages while redressing a growing area of environmental concern . <p> Hassan Tammous , an associate professor of biochemistry at Egypt 's Al-Azhar University , explained that oil extraction typically leaves behind more than 40 percent waste of the total olive harvest . He told Al Jazeera that " each year , 80,000 tonnes of olive pomace is left behind after oil extraction in the West Bank and Gaza . " <p> Waste management is a challenge in densely populated Gaza . Olive waste , which can end up in sewers or on farmland is particularly concerning , said Tammous , because it contains " polyphenols and other chemicals , which are toxic to microorganisms , harmful to agricultural production and contaminating to aquifers " . <p> The fuel pellets also lessen demand for firewood that is usually sourced from local citrus trees , according to Tamer . <p> " Logging is unsustainable in Gaza , because we do n't have much green environment in such urban and densely populated area , " he adds . <p> Tamer said that not only are the Jift pellets cheaper and better for the environment , they are also more efficient . " Regular firewood burns for four to five hours while a Jift block burns for seven to 10 hours in average , " he said . " When used for heating and cooking , a few-cents worth of Jeft blocks substitute for a 64-shekels ( $18.47 ) gas cylinder . " <p> On a more industrial scale , it takes approximately 0.386kg ( 0.85 pounds ) of dry firewood to produce one kilowatt-hour in steam turbines compared with only 0.23kg ( 0.5 pounds ) of Jift used to produce the same amount , according to Mazen Abu Amro , Dean of Al-Azhar University 's Faculty of Engineering . <p> After marketing the project to local outlets and on social media , the Olive Jift team said demand for their product has exceeded supply . <p> " We were surprised that despite our production rate of 1,000kg per hour ( 2,204.6 pounds ) , we often run out of Jift , " Tamer told Al Jazeera . <p> " Some local factories want us to supply Jift in large quantities all year round for alternative energy , while many farmers in Khan Younis in southern Gaza use it in wintertime to heat greenhouses and chicken farms , because it can give them up to 12 hours of heating . " The team hopes to double its production capacity next year along with its workforce and engineering staff . <p> New products are also in the development pipeline , including a portable heater that could charge a phone from burning Jift . <p> Tamer said he hopes that the international community takes notice of the entrepreneurial spirit incubating in Gaza . <p> " Entrepreneurship is the path to challenge the dire status quo and develop local solutions to Gaza 's crises , " he said . <p> " We are some of the most highly educated populations in the world . What we lack is a serious opportunity to demonstrate our resourcefulness and potentials to create a better reality ourselves . " 
@@61483206 <h> Wednesday December 25 2019 <h> In Summary <p> Bethlehem . The Palestinian Minister of Tourism and Antiquities Rula Maayah has announced that the number of tourists who visited Palestine during 2019 exceeded three million . <p> In an exclusive interview with Wafa , Ms Ma'ayah said the increase in the number of tourists over the past year was due to the ministry 's policy and concerted efforts with the private sector to advance the tourism sector . <p> This he says is testimony that Palestinian areas are secure and safe thanks to the Palestinian security establishment , despite daily violations the territory is exposed to due to the occupation . <p> She pointed out that the number of visitors in Palestinian hotels has exceed two million , with most of the tourists coming from Poland , Romania , the United States of America , Italy , and India . <p> She pointed out that eight years ago Palestine was participating in eight international tourism exhibitions , while now the participation has expanded to reach 22 exhibitions in the Far East , Latin America and Europe . <p> Mayaah says that the Ministry of Tourism worked in two directions to activate existing markets or to open new markets , the first of which is related to the media aspect in terms of advertising and tourism promotion , which has required a large budget . <p> " We invited the private sector and the media in many countries through delegations ranging from 50 to 70 people , to introduce them to the tourism infrastructure , archaeological sites and the nature of Palestinian life and culture . " <p> According to her these visits were successful and have seen on the ground increase in the number of tourists <p> Another initiative was through organized activities abroad , as was recently in France an invitation and presence of more than ( 100 ) tourist offices in France , in partnership with the Embassy of Palestine And the Arab-Palestinian Chamber of Commerce , followed by a workshop , which created a link between the private sectors of the two countries . <p> Regarding the new markets , she says that the last market was Japan , where Hisham 's Palace is set to encourage the Japanese to visit Palestine , because it is part of cultural tourism ... in addition to the markets of the Netherlands , the Czech Republic , the Philippines , and South Africa . <p> She pointed out that the Israeli obstacles and measures delayed the opening of the Hisham Palace , which was supposed to open at the beginning of next year . <p> The minister did not hide the fact that listing some sites on the list of world cultural heritage , had a positive impact and a clear return on the increase in the number of tourists , including " Battir " west of Bethlehem , where a number of tourists from different countries visit it daily , and it has become a qualitative shift in terms of establishing Tourist lodges , oriental antiques shops and important facilities for tourism , indicating that their inclusion was within the framework of protecting them from the destruction of the separation wall . <p> She revealed that the new file that the Ministry began working on with UNESCO to include it on the World Heritage List is the " Jericho File " . she dealt with the tourism cluster , and said that the government policy in general aims to develop cities with clusters , including the tourism sector , and a tourism plan was prepared in cooperation with the institutions of Bethlehem pending the approval and approval of the Council of Ministers , to be implemented with the start of the new year the implementation of a plan Tourism cluster development . <p> She pointed out that there is a great development in the hotel sector to receive large numbers , by increasing it , pointing out that there are ( 210 ) hotels in Palestine , including ( 78 ) in the main cities of Bethlehem , BeitSahour , and BeitJala , with a rate of ( 5210 ) rooms . <p> There were 18 in Jericho , ( 5 ) in Hebron , ( 35 ) in Jerusalem , ( 5 ) in Jenin , ( 35 ) in Ramallah , ( 20 ) in Nablus , as well as in Gaza . <p> Maayya explained that the year 2019 will be different from the previous years by launching the " Wi-Fi " service in Bethlehem , so that tourists can benefit from it , which aims to introduce the tourist to the location where he is in Palestine . And you tell him that the internet service is free during his time in the heart of Bethlehem . 
