@@51234202 <h> Others <p> Hong Kong , Oct 13 ( AP/UNB ) -- Taking a page from ancient Chinese military philosophy , black-clad protesters in Hong Kong changed tactics and wreaked havoc by popping up in small groups in multiple locations across the city Sunday , pursued by but also often eluding police who made scores of muscular arrests . <p> Violence spiraled as protests stretched from Sunday afternoon into the night , with police struggling to restore order . <p> A savage beating after dark by a group of masked protesters left a man bleeding profusely . Police said an officer was attacked from behind with a sharp weapon earlier in the day and was left with a bleeding neck wound . <p> Video broadcast on Hong Kong television also showed a masked , black-clad protester dropping a riot officer with a flying high kick , followed by two other protesters who beat the officer on the ground and tried unsuccessfully to snatch his gun . <p> Quito , Oct 13 ( AP/UNB ) -- Residents of Ecuador 's capital ventured out into the streets Sunday despite a 24-hour military curfew , picking their way through piles of burnt tires , chunks of pavement and tree trunks smoldering after a day of violent protests across Quito . <p> The government and indigenous protesters planned to begin negotiations aimed at defusing more than a week of demonstrations against a plan to remove fuel subsidies as part of an International Monetary Fund austerity package . The protests have paralyzed Ecuador 's economy and cut off more than half of the country 's production of oil , Ecuador 's most important export . <p> The United Nations and Ecuadorian Bishops ' Conference said negotiations would begin at 3 p.m. local time ( 4 p.m . EDT ) between President Len ? n Moreno 's government and the Confederation of Indigenous Nations , which has brought thousands of indigenous protesters to the capital and organized protests across the country , from the Andes high sierra to the Amazon rainforest . <p> " We trust in the will of everyone to establish a dialogue in good faith and find a quick solution to the complex situation the country is living , " the U.N . ' s Ecuador office said in a statement . <p> However , the protests have drawn in thousands of Ecuadorians from outside the indigenous minority and many said they would continue demonstrating despite the negotiations . <p> Michael Limaico , a 35-year-old unemployed sign-maker , stood on a corner in the Carcelen neighborhood near a line of burned tires that blocked one of the city main thoroughfares on Saturday . Limaico said that he and his wife had struggled for years to feed and house their three children , ages 9 to 15 , with their earnings of about $600 a month from odd jobs around northern Quito . <p> Then , prices of food and other basic goods rose sharply after Moreno removed fuel subsidies on Oct. 2 . Limaico said it had become impossible to make ends meet , and he had been protesting for days with neighbors who have blocked Diego de Vazquez Avenue as it passes through Carcelen . <p> " This is n't a protest of thieves , of gangsters , " he said . " This is the people , and we 're fed up . " <p> Demonstrations in Quito took three distinct forms on Saturday , the most tumultuous in 10 days of protests against Moreno 's austerity measures . Thousands of indigenous people protested outside the National Assembly in the city center . Front-line troops of young people , both whites and mestizos from inside Quito and indigenous from the countryside , fought police with stones , Molotov cocktails and improvised mortars . Several dozen broke into the national comptroller office , smashing windows and setting the building afire . <p> Elsewhere in the city , groups of masked men attacked media offices , setting fires before they were driven off by police . <p> Lastly , across Quito , groups of neighbors -- indigenous , white and mixed , or mestizo -- blocked streets , burned tires and banged pots and pans to protest Moreno 's austerity package . Others , tired of the chaos , banged pots and pans to protest the demonstrations and call for a return to normality . <p> " Every citizen that disagrees with government decisions can protest in the right way but let 's not mix that up with vandalism and robbery , " said James Baez , a 78-year-old retired employee of an American tire company . He said he supported Moreno and the decision to impose a curfew . <p> On Sunday morning , soldiers and had retaken control of the epicenter of the protests in Quito -- the park and streets leading to the National Assembly and the national comptroller 's office . <p> Moreno said the military would enforce the round the clock curfew in Quito and around critical infrastructure like power stations and hospitals in response to the day 's violence . It was the first such action imposed since a series of coups in the 1960s and ' 70s , although there was little military or police presence on most Quito streets Sunday morning and thousands of people were out walking , driving and trying to run errands like getting money from cash machines . <p> Moreno said his government would address some concerns of protesters , studying ways to ensure resources reach rural areas and offering compensation for those who lost earnings because of the recent upheaval . <p> " We 'll negotiate with those who have decided to do so , " Moreno said in remarks broadcast on radio and television . " The process is moving forward and I hope to give you good news soon , because different organizations and sectors have confirmed their willingness to talk . " <p> Moreno said the masked protesters had nothing to do with the thousands of indigenous Ecuadorians who have protested for more than a week over a sudden rise in fuel prices as part of an International Monetary Fund-backed austerity package . He blamed the violence on drug traffickers , organized crime and followers of former President Rafael Correa , who has denied allegations he is trying to topple Moreno 's government . <p> Moreno served Correa as vice president before he become president and the two men went through a bitter split as Moreno pushed to curb public debt amassed on Correa 's watch . <p> Ecuador , a former OPEC member , was left deeply in debt by a decade of high-spending governance and the oil price drop . Moreno is raising taxes , liberalizing labor laws and cutting public spending in order to win more than $4 billion in emergency financing from the IMF . <p> As part of that plan , Moreno eliminated subsidies on the price of fuel on Oct. 2 , driving the most popular variety of gasoline from $1.85 to $2.39 a gallon and diesel from $1.03 to $2.30 . Panic and speculation sent prices soaring , with costs of some products doubling or more . <p> Ecuador 's indigenous people , poor and underserved by government programs , were infuriated . Over the last week , thousands of streamed into Quito . <p> In the country 's Amazon oil fields , protests at installations , described by some government officials as attacks , have halted or slowed production . <p> Ecuador had been producing 430,000 barrels a day , a figure that had dropped to 176,029 barrels by Sunday , said an official at state oil producer Petroamazonas who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to release the information . That has led to a loss of about $14 million a day , the official said . <p> An indigenous leader and four other people have died during the unrest , according to the public defender 's office . The president 's office has reported two deaths . <p> Warsaw , Oct 13 ( AP/UNB ) -- Poles were voting Sunday in a parliamentary election that the ruling nationalist Law and Justice party was favored to win , buoyed by the popularity of its conservative agenda and generous social spending . <p> Concerns about democracy have made this one of the country 's most momentous elections since the fall of communism 30 years ago . Critics fear that an illiberal turn during the past four years of the party 's rule could become irreversible if it wins another four-year term . <p> More than 30 million voters were choosing lawmakers in the 460-seat lower house of parliament , the Sejm , and in the 100-seat Senate . <p> Law and Justice is the first party since the fall of communism to break with the austerity of previous governments , whose free-market policies took a moribund communist economy and transformed it into one of Europe 's most dynamic . <p> However , many Poles were left out in that transformation and inequalities grew , creating grievances . Law and Justice has skillfully addressed those concerns with popular programs , including one that gives away 500 zlotys ( $125 ) to families per month per child , taking the edge off poverty for some and giving others more disposable income . <p> " I 'm happy because finally , after so many years of communist captivity , we have real professionals in the government , " said Marek Paciorek , a voter in Warsaw who backed Law and Justice . <p> But Maciej Gorski , 20 , was among some young voters in Warsaw who criticized the child subsidy as too expensive . He said he voted for the Civic Coalition to keep Poland from becoming a " one-party state . " <p> Critics fear that four more years for Law and Justice will reverse the democratic achievements of this Central European nation , citing an erosion of judicial independence and of minority rights since the party took power in 2015 . <p> Polls over the past week gave Law and Justice between 40% and 45% support , with the second-strongest force , the centrist pro-EU Civic Coalition , whose biggest party is Civic Platform , around 25% of the vote . An alliance of three left-wing parties has polled between 10% and 15% . <p> The former Civic Platform prime minister , Donald Tusk , who is now the European Union 's top leader , voted Sunday in his hometown of Sopot . <p> " I am sure that , regardless of political tensions , democracy in Poland is very strong and stable , " he said . " But it is important that the winner does not try to destroy its opponents , but understand that after a win all political forces need to live side by side . " <p> In Warsaw , Law and Justice party leader Jaroslaw Kaczynski , considered the real power behind Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki 's government , cast his ballot , as did the Civic Coalition 's candidate for prime minister , Malgorzata Kidawa-Blonska . <p> Law and Justice is hoping to win a majority of seats Sunday but possible coalition partners , if it needs any , could include two small parties if they win enough seats : the conservative agrarian Polish People 's Party or the far-right Confederation , which is openly anti-Semitic and depicts gay people as pedophiles . <p> Law and Justice 's overhaul of the judicial system has given the party unprecedented power over Poland 's prosecution system and courts . In reaction , the EU has repeatedly warned that the rule of law is threatened and has sanctioned the country , blunting some of the changes , but not all . <p> The ruling party has used taxpayer-funded public media , which is supposed to be nonpartisan , to hail the party 's achievements and denigrate political rivals . <p> It also ran a campaign targeting the LGBT movement , depicting it as a grave threat to the nation 's culture and children . Defending the traditional family in a country where most people are Roman Catholics is a message that has found favor with many . <p> Exit polls will be announced when the polls close Sunday at 9 p.m. ( 1900 GMT , 3 p.m . EDT ) but official results are not expected for until early in the week . <p> Maputo , Oct 13 ( AP/UNB ) -- Mozambique 's elections on Tuesday are almost certain to be won by the ruling Frelimo party and President Filipe Nyusi but it is unclear if the results will bring badly needed stability and economic growth . <p> The southern African nation of nearly 30 million people has a strategic location on the Indian Ocean and substantial deposits of natural gas . Pummeled by a pair of cyclones earlier this year , it also faces sporadic violence by opposition rebels and a growing threat from suspected Islamic extremists in the far north . <p> Frelimo has never lost a national election since 1975 when it overthrew Portuguese colonial rule , and its leaders have never stayed in power beyond the maximum two terms . <p> Although the main opposition Renamo party is unlikely to win the national elections , its new leader Ossufo Momade has been unexpectedly effective . <p> Momade " has been a big , big surprise on the campaign , " said Fernando Lima , journalist and head of independent media house Mediacoop . " He speaks in very straightforward language -- very populistic -- and he benefits from Renamo 's popularity , particularly in the countryside . " <p> Alex Vines , head of the Africa program at British think tank Chatham House , agreed . <p> " Momade 's magic is that he is drawing a large following in Nampula and Zambezia provinces , " said Vines , who is part of the Commonwealth election observer mission . <p> Renamo is doing well enough to worry Frelimo , said Vines , particularly after last year 's municipal elections saw an increase in turnout but a decline in the Frelimo vote . <p> " That is an indicator for a worse performance in the national elections , " Vines said . " Frelimo knows this and has less resources to splash this time , and this is why this looks to be an ill-tempered and nasty election . " <p> There have been killings , notably of Anastacio Matavel , who led a consortium of local election observers in Gaza province , a Frelimo stronghold where a suspiciously high number of voters were registered . Police have acknowledged that four of the attackers were members of the police 's own elite rapid reaction force . <p> The opposition has complained of being prevented from campaigning by Frelimo , with roads blocked in the country 's largest city , Matola , and the municipal square booked for the whole campaign period in the ruby mining town of Montepuez in northern Cabo Delgado province . <p> Nyusi 's first term has been dominated by an economic crisis caused by a $2 billion corruption scandal . Companies set up by the country 's secret services and the defense ministry borrowed $2 billion in secret , with the help of then-finance minister Manuel Chang , to set up maritime projects that never materialized but allegedly enriched a range of local and foreign players . Chang is currently jailed in South Africa resisting extradition to face trial in New York in connection with the scandal . <p> Mozambique is now trying to legally disavow part of the debt and restructure another part , which the country will be repaying for years to come . The debts have triggered economic problems felt by ordinary voters . <p> The deals were cooked up before Nyusi became president but while he was defense minister , and questions about his involvement have never gone away . <p> " Frelimo will be tested electorally as never before , " Vines said . " An angry electorate frustrated at widespread delivery failings and the undisclosed loans scandal have resulted in significant numbers of voters wanting change . " <p> Nyusi 's supporters point to his success in signing a peace deal with Renamo earlier this year , but the longed-for " definitive peace " still seems elusive . A group of Renamo rebels who reject Momade 's leadership threaten violence in Mozambique 's central region , and there have been a number of attacks believed to be by the self-styled Renamo Military Junta , although it has not claimed responsibility . <p> Nyusi also can claim credit for the $25 billion Mozambique Liquid Natural Gas project controlled by France 's Total . But a bloody insurgency in Cabo Delgado , where the gas is located , overshadows any optimism and has contributed to a delay in a final decision on a nearby larger gas project by ExxonMobil . <p> In recent days , the government has stepped up its offensive against the insurgents , who began attacking Cabo Delgado coastal communities in October 2017 . Little is known about the rebels , who are blamed for killing more than 400 civilians and military , including many beheadings . Recently the Islamic State group has claimed alignment with the rebels . <p> These elections will see provincial governors elected for the first time , a key Renamo demand which will allow the opposition to administer provinces where it wins a majority . Previously all governors were appointed by the ruling party . <p> However , Frelimo has established a new management layer , a provincial secretary of state , which will be appointed by the president and take on many of the powers that governors have had up to now . <p> Renamo 's Momade is expected to become governor of Nampula province , his home province and the country 's most populous , but it is harder to predict the outcome in neighboring Zambezia province , the second-most populous and another opposition stronghold . <p> " Frelimo seem to be working hard in Zambezia , but in private their strategists are pessimistic about Nampula and Zambezia , " Lima said . " Clearly the Renamo campaign is much more vibrant in Zambezia than Frelimo . " <p> In its traditional heartlands in Mozambique 's center , however , Renamo could find the going tougher . " Splits in Renamo may punish the party in Manica and Sofala provinces , and I worry that Renamo is saying that it will win impressively across the country , and that 's unlikely , " Vines said . <p> Electoral results far below the expectations of opposition supporters could create a volatile post-election atmosphere but Lima said the solution is largely in the hands of the ruling party . <p> " In the environment that we have , with the problems in Cabo Delgado and in central Mozambique , and the strong sense of suspicion within Renamo , if Frelimo plays all the fraud tricks it has done in the past this will be a very poisonous recipe for trouble , " Lima said . " So Frelimo should try to play clean , by the book . " <p> London , Oct 13 ( AP/UNB ) -- British Prime Minister Boris Johnson told Cabinet colleagues that it will require a " significant amount of work " to strike a Brexit deal with the European Union , amid signs of progress in last-minute talks but also deep-seated skepticism about the chances of an agreement . <p> Britain is due to leave the 28-nation bloc on Oct. 31 , and attempts to find a deal have foundered over plans for keeping an open border between EU member Ireland and the U.K. 's Northern Ireland . <p> The challenge of maintaining an invisible border -- something that underpinned both the local economy and the region 's peace deal -- has dominated Brexit discussions for three years , ever since U.K. voters chose in 2016 to leave the EU . <p> But negotiations intensified last week after Johnson and Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar said they could see a " pathway " to a divorce agreement that avoids a no-deal Brexit , something economists say would hurt both the U.K. and EU economies . <p> Both sides say substantial gaps remain and it 's unclear whether they can be bridged in time for an orderly British departure at the end of this month . A crucial EU summit , the last scheduled chance to strike a deal , begins Thursday . <p> The European Commission 's EU chief negotiator Michel Barnier briefed ambassadors of the remaining 27 countries Sunday . The commission said in a statement that there had been " constructive technical-level " talks with the U.K. but " a lot of work remains to be done . " <p> It said discussions would continue Monday . <p> Johnson 's office said he told the Cabinet on Sunday in a conference call " that a pathway to a deal could be seen but that there is still a significant amount of work to get there and we must remain prepared to leave on Oct. 31 " even if there is no agreement . <p> If a Brexit deal is reached , it still needs to be approved by both British and European parliaments . Many British lawmakers -- on both pro-Brexit and pro-EU sides of the debate -- remain unconvinced . <p> Opposition Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn said Sunday that his party was unlikely to support any deal agreed upon by Johnson . <p> Lawmaker Nigel Dodds of Northern Ireland 's Democratic Unionist Party -- which props up Johnson 's Conservative minority government -- has rejected one suggested compromise , in which Northern Ireland stayed in a customs partnership with the EU in order to remove the need for border checks . The DUP strongly opposes any measures that would treat Northern Ireland differently than the rest of the U.K. <p> But other Brexit supporters signaled they could back such a deal . House of Commons leader Jacob Rees-Mogg , a strong Brexiteer , said a " compromise will inevitably be needed , something even the staunchest Leavers recognize , albeit unwillingly . " <p> Rees-Mogg told Sky News that the chances of a Brexit agreement were rising . <p> " I think it 's always difficult to put specific odds on things , but it certainly looks a lot more positive this week than it did last week , " he said . 
@@51314536 <h> Gaza rocket sends Netanyahu to shelter during campaign rally : TV <h> A rocket launched from the Gaza Strip at a southern Israeli city on Wednesday as it hosted a campaign rally by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu prompted him to take shelter briefly before resuming the event , Israeli TV stations reported . <p> The Israeli military confirmed the launch against Ashkelon , which is 12 km ( 7.5 miles ) from the coastal Palestinian enclave , and said the rocket was shot down by an Iron Dome air defense interceptor . <p> There was no immediate claim of responsibility in Gaza , which is under the control of Hamas Islamists and where a smaller armed faction , Islamic Jihad , exchanged fire with Israel during a two-day surge of violence last month . <p> Israeli TV stations showed Netanyahu , who is campaigning to keep the helm of the conservative Likud party in an internal election on Thursday , being escorted off a stage by bodyguards . The reports said he was taken to a shelter after sirens sounded . <p> It was the second such incident after a September appearance by Netanyahu in the nearby town of Ashdod was briefly disrupted by a rocket siren . <p> Israel sparked the November fighting in Gaza by assassinating Baha Abu Al-Atta , an Islamic Jihad commander it accused of ordering the launch against Ashdod . <p> " He ( Al-Atta ) is no longer around , " a video circulated on social media showed a smiling Netanyahu saying after he retook the stage in Ashkelon , to cheers from onlookers . <p> In a veiled threat to retaliate for Wednesday 's attack , he added : " Whoever tried to make an impression just now should pack his bags . " <p> While Netanyahu is widely expected to retain Likud 's leadership , he faces a tough battle ahead of a March general election in Israel - its third in a year , after he and his centrist rival Benny Gantz failed to secure majorities in two previous ballots . Netanyahu 's standing has been dented by an indictment on corruption charges that he denies . <p> Netanyahu 's failure to stem attacks from Gaza has been invoked by his political rivals . <p> " The situation in which Israeli citizens live at the mercy of terrorists and the prime minister of Israel is unable to tour parts of his country is a badge of shame on the security policy in the south - and a loss of deterrence that no sovereign country can accept , " Gantz , a former military chief , said in a statement on Wednesday . 
@@82445708 <h> Military <h> Further Reading <h> Israeli Defence Minister Approves New Jewish Neighbourhood in Hebron <p> TEL AVIV ( Sputnik ) - Israeli Defence Minister Naftali Bennett approved on 1 December the planning of a new Jewish neighbourhood in the city of Hebron in the southwestern part of the West Bank , the ministerial press service said . <p> Naftali Bennet ordered to hand the relevant notification to the Arab municipality of the city . <p> The Jewish neighbourhood will be built on the territory of the market , which closed in the 1990s , while the market buildings will be demolished . The Palestinians , however , will retain the rights to the properties on the ground floors . <p> Hebron is the largest city in the West Bank and the second largest in the Palestinian territories after Gaza . The city is divided into two sectors , controlled by the Palestinian Authority and Israel . <p> Israel has been in control of the Palestinian-majority West Bank since the Six-Day War in 1967 . Since then , more than 120 Israeli civilian settlements were built in the disputed area . <p> Among the international documents that codify the unacceptability of such practice is Article 49 of the 1949 Fourth Geneva Convention on the protection of civilian persons during times of war , which reads that " the Occupying Power shall not deport or transfer parts of its own civilian population into the territory it occupies " . <p> UN Security Council Resolution 2334 , which was adopted unanimously in 2016 , is another such document . It states that Israel 's building of settlements on Palestinian territories constitutes a violation of international law . 
@@82784950 <h> Military <h> Further Reading <p> Earlier , the Israel Defence Forces ( IDF ) tweeted that " for the second time today , a rocket was fired from Gaza at Israeli civilians " , adding that warning sirens had sounded in southern Israel before the attack . <p> The IDF said it conducted an air strike against Hamas positions in southern and northern parts of the Gaza Strip , responding to a " rocket fired at #Israel earlier this evening " . Among the targets of the IDF attack were " underground infrastructure , a naval target " in southern Gaza and a " military compound " in Gaza 's northern section . <p> ? Tweet reads : " A short time ago , IDF aircraft attacked underground infrastructure and a naval target of the Hamas terrorist organization in the southern Gaza Strip , and a military compound of the terrorist organization in the northern Gaza Strip " . <p> Earlier in the day , the IDF revealed that their fighter jets had hit what they claimed was a Hamas arms production site in the Gaza Strip after a rocket was fired from Gaza at Israel . <p> Hamas , a Palestinian Sunni militant organization in control of the Gaza Strip , has been locked in a protracted conflict with Israel . The latter holds Hamas responsible for any attack coming from the Gaza Strip . 
