@@31494916 <p> In the years leading up to the Arab Spring , Islamist parties developed something of an obsession with the role of Western powers in supporting democracy in the Arab world -- or , more likely , not supporting it . Islamists were fighting on two fronts : not just repressive regimes , but their international backers as well . The ghosts of Algeria lingered . In January 1992 , Algeria 's largest Islamist party , the Islamic Salvation Front ( FIS ) , found itself on the brink of an historic election victory -- prompting fears that the military was preparing to move against the Islamists . In the tense days that followed , FIS leader Abdelkader Hachani addressed a crowd of supporters . " Victory is more dangerous than defeat , " he warned , urging them to exercise restraint to avoid giving the army a pretext for intervention . But it was too late . The staunchly secular military aborted the elections , launching a massive crackdown and plunging Algeria into a civil war that would claim more than 100,000 lives . <p> That authoritarian regimes and activist militaries could count on American and European acquiescence ( or even support ) -- as they did in 1992 -- made Arab regimes seem more durable than they actually were , and the task of unseating them more daunting . During the first and forgotten Arab Spring of 2004-5 , Algeria repeatedly came up in my interviews with Muslim Brotherhood leaders in Egypt and Jordan . Perhaps over-learning the lessons of the past , Islamist parties across the region , despite their growing popularity , were careful and cautious . They made a habit of losing elections . In fact , they lost them on purpose . This ambivalence and even aversion to power prevented Islamists from playing the role that opposition parties are generally expected to play . It was better to wait , and so they did . <p> It 's been almost five years since the start of the Arab Spring , but one conversation still stands out to me , despite ( or perhaps because of ) everything that 's happened since . Just two months before the uprisings began , Egypt was experiencing what , at the time , seemed like an especially hopeless period . I was in the country for November elections that proved to be the most fraudulent in Egyptian history . After winning an unprecedented 88 seats in parliament in 2005 , the Muslim Brotherhood was n't permitted by Hosni Mubarak 's regime to claim even one seat . But this movement , the mother of all Islamist movements , accepted its fate in stride . " The regimes wo n't let us take power , " Hamdi Hassan , the head of the Brotherhood 's parliamentary bloc , told me during that doomed election campaign . What was the solution , then ? I asked him . " The solution is in the ' Brotherhood approach . ' We focus on the individual , then the family , then society . " <p> " In the lifespan of mankind , 80 years is n't long , " he reasoned , referring to the time that had passed since the Brotherhood 's founding . " It 's like eight seconds . " <p> * * * <p> Events in the Middle East , and the policy debates surrounding them , tend to proceed in endless , disorienting loops . The Syrian civil war has gotten almost unimaginably worse since early 2012 ( from 7,000 dead to 250,000 ) , but we 're debating much the same thing weweredebating back then : to enact safe zones and no-fly zones in the country , or not to . Algerian Islamists were ascendant in 1991 and the military intervened to stop them ; something eerily similar happened in 2013 after the Muslim Brotherhood came to power in Egypt through democratic elections . Where exactly is the line between inaction and complicity ? The notion of neutrality , for a country as powerful as the United States , is illusory . Doing nothing or " doing no harm " means maintaining or reverting to the status quo , which in the Middle East is never neutral , due to America 's longstanding relationships with regional actors . <p> Before , during , and after the Arab Spring , one thing has remained constant in the Middle East : the outsized influence of outside powers . When the United States opts to remain disengaged -- itself a conscious policy choice -- others move to fill the void . The convenient fiction that foreign powers can do little to respond to the conflicts or " ancient hatreds " of the region belies nearly every major political development of the post-Arab Spring period . For a moment , though , it was nice to think that it was n't about the U.S. , or at least that it did n't have to be . <p> The first two uprisings in Tunisia and Egypt seemed to shatter the illusion that Arabs had to wait . Even if Western powers were n't with them -- and , at least at first , they were n't -- Arabs could bring about their own revolutions . In Tunisia , where little was at stake for the United States , senior officials were still saying that the U.S. was " not taking sides " as late as two days before Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali 's fall . After Ben Ali fled on January 14 , 2011 , taking refuge in Saudi Arabia , the Obama administration quickly adapted , expressing its support for the revolution . The U.S. could live without the Tunisian regime , but could it live without a staunch ally like Egypt 's Hosni Mubarak , a dogged opponent of Iran and a stalwart supporter of the Arab-Israeli peace process ? Here too , Mubarak 's longtime ties with Western governments would prove insufficient in preserving his rule . <p> From the very start , there was a temptation to discount the importance of foreign powers in the Arab Spring . It became commonplace to hear some variation of the following : that the uprisings were a truly indigenous movement and that Arabs themselves did not want other countries to " interfere " in it -- meddling that would , the thinking went , go against the very spirit of the revolutions . President Barack Obama and other U.S. officials repeatedly insisted that this was " not about America . " In reality , it was partly about America , not just because of the past U.S. role in backing Arab dictatorships , but because of the critical role it would continue to play in the region . <p> For better and worse , international actors influenced the first phase of the Arab Spring and , in several countries , defined it . In Libya , Yemen , and Syria , Western and regional powers in the Gulf played significant , even decisive roles . In the one stalled revolution -- Bahrain 's -- it was Saudi Arabia 's military intervention that quelled the uprising and kept the ruling family afloat . Even in Egypt , the 2011 uprising was effectively internationalized , with foreign media devoting countless hours to covering every turn and , in the process , putting the issue at the top of the Western policy agenda . The United States , making use of longstanding military-to-military ties , pressured the Egyptian army to refrain from using force against protesters . <p> Nor were Arab Spring protesters entirely inward-looking . While those who rose up were no doubt angry over the lack of " bread and freedom , " the third element -- the demand for dignity -- was more difficult to characterize . Here , Egypt 's pro-Western policies and perceived subservience to the United States figured prominently , including in the defining chant that echoed throughout Tahrir Square the night Mubarak fell : " You 're Egyptian -- raise your head up high . " During my time in Tahrir , I heard numerous chants attacking Mubarak for being a lackey of the United States and Israel ( one such chant claimed that the Egyptian president only understood one language : Hebrew ) . <p> In Egypt and Tunisia , what the United States did -- and did not do -- continued to matter well after the initial uprisings . Newly elected governments facing deteriorating economic conditions at home needed as much outside support as they could get , in the form of direct financial assistance , loans , trade , asset recovery , and private investment . Despite its struggling economy and budgetary constraints , the United States had an important role to play . It was a question of political will . In the first year and a half after the uprisings , the U.S. proposed or allocated only around $2.2 billion in new aid to Arab Spring-affected countries . ( For the sake of comparison , the U.S. committed $128 billion in today 's dollars during the four years of the Marshall Plan in post-World War II Western Europe ) . But this was n't just , or even primarily , about money . More costly were the Obama administration 's decisions to disengage from Libya after a successful military intervention there , to do as little as possible in Syria , to indulge Nouri al-Maliki in Iraq as he cracked down on Sunni political forces , and to outsource policy on Yemen to Saudi Arabia . <p> In recent years , a growing academic literature has pointed to the role of international actors in bringing down autocrats , though the focus tends to be on non-Middle Eastern cases . In their 2010 book , the political scientists Steven Levitsky and Lucan Way provide extensive empirical support to what many have long argued . They write that " it was an externally driven shift in the cost of suppression , not changes in domestic conditions , that contributed most centrally to the demise of authoritarianism in the 1980s and 1990s . " Levitsky and Way find that " states ' vulnerability to Western democratizing pressure ... was often decisive . " <p> In the Middle East , the critical role of foreign powers was confirmed , once again , during Egypt 's July 2013 military coup and its tragic aftermath . In the two and a half years leading up to the removal of President Mohamed Morsi of the Muslim Brotherhood , the United States failed to put any significant pressure on the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces ( SCAF ) , which dominated -- and corrupted -- Egypt 's transition in those early , critical days after the revolution . The United States wagered that a military-led transition would facilitate ( and manage ) the democratization process while safeguarding American interests . SCAF , though , grew increasingly autocratic , culminating in one very bad week in June 2012 when the military and its allies dissolved parliament , reinstated martial law , and decreed a constitutional addendum stripping the presidency of many of its powers . <p> The precedent had been set : even the most egregious violations of the democratic process would receive little more than the usual , bland expressions of concern and disapproval . The unwillingness to pressure SCAF would make it all the more difficult for the U.S. to hold future Islamist-led governments , such as Morsi 's , to democratic standards . SCAF was n't elected . How , then , could Washington justify withholding U.S. assistance to Morsi 's administration -- the country 's first democratically elected government ? <p> After the July 3 coup and subsequent crackdown against the Brotherhood and other Islamists , the U.S. response was muted . Despite a legal obligation to suspend aid in the event of a coup , the Obama administration , along with most of Congress , insisted on the importance of maintaining the flow of military aid to Egypt . A month after the military 's intervention -- and in the lead-up to its massacre of Morsi supporters near the Rabaa al-Adawiya mosque -- Secretary of State John Kerry even appeared to endorse the coup , saying that the army was " in effect ... restoring democracy " and averting civil war . Egyptian military officials wagered , rightly , that they could get away with what became , according to Human Rights Watch , the worst mass killing in modern Egyptian history -- as well as one of the worst single-day mass killings in recent decades anywhere in the world . <p> Blood stains the ground near a poster of Mohamed Morsi after violent clashes between the Egyptian military and Morsi supporters . ( Amr Abdallah Dalsh / Reuters ) <p> America 's relative silence was no accident . To offer a strong , coherent response to the killings would have required a strategy , which would have required more , not less , involvement . This , however , would have been at cross-purposes with the entire thrust of the administration 's policy . Obama was engaged in a concerted effort to reduce its footprint in the Middle East . The phrase " leading from behind " quickly became a pejorative for Obama 's foreign-policy doctrine , but it captured a very real shift in America 's posture . The foreign-policy analysts Nina Hachigian and David Shorr called it the " Responsibility Doctrine , " a strategy of " prodding other influential nations ... to help shoulder the burdens of fostering a stable , peaceful world order . " In pursuing this strategy in the Middle East , the United States left a power vacuum -- and a proxy struggle . During Morsi 's year-long tenure , Qatar became the single largest foreign donor to Egypt , at over $5 billion ( with Turkey contributing another $2 billion ) . Just days after the military moved against Morsi , it was Saudi Arabia , the United Arab Emirates , and Kuwait that pledged a massive $12 billion to the new military-appointed government . <p> The United States , along with the conservative Gulf monarchies and many others , also viewed Islamist parties with considerable suspicion . The Muslim Brotherhood had a long history of vehemently anti-Western and anti-Israel positions , including refusing to accept the Jewish state 's right to exist . ( A few months after Egypt 's 2011 uprising , Morsi , who was particularly outspoken among Brotherhood leaders on these matters , shared his views on the 9/11 attacks with me . " When you come and tell me that the plane hit the tower like a knife in butter , " he said , shifting to English , " then you are insulting us . How did the plane cut through the steel like this ? Something must have happened from the inside . It 's impossible . " In 2010 , before he had any inkling of becoming president , Morsi , echoing classical anti-Semitic tropes , called Zionists " descendants of apes and pigs . " ) <p> But what Morsi apparently believed and what he actually did in power constituted alternate universes . In 2006 , the Brotherhood 's general guide , Mahdi Akef , told me angrily that " of course " the Brotherhood would cancel Egypt 's peace treaty with Israel if it ever had the chance . More pragmatic Islamists adopted a different tone , usually one of resignation . As one senior Brotherhood figure in Jordan put it to me : " If we must , we will always , at the very least , believe and long for the liberation of Palestine in our own hearts . " As I discuss in my book Temptations of Power , it is in the realm of foreign policy that the dissonance between ideology and practice is most striking but also the least surprising . Islamist parties in power simply can not do the things they might like to do in an ideal world . The structure of the regional and international order wo n't allow it . As long as Arab countries are dependent on Western powers for economic and political survival , there will be limits to how far elected governments , Islamist or otherwise , can go . ( If that dependency were to weaken in the long run , Islamists would likely pursue a more ideological , assertive foreign policy . Ideology , to express itself , needs to be freed of its various constraints . ) <p> Morsi , as president , was a product of this constrained context . While his foreign policy departed from Mubarak 's in significant ways , it was far from the wholesale shift that some of his supporters were hoping for . Morsi , for example , played an important role in brokering a resolution to the Gaza crisis of November 2012 . He brought Egypt closer to Hamas , a U.S.-designated terrorist group , but he did so in a way that fell well short of fundamentally challenging the U.S.-led regional order . The model for Morsi was Turkey or Qatar -- countries that were tied to the United States militarily and strategically but able and willing to establish themselves as independent , assertive regional powers , despite occasional ( or increasingly frequent ) American grumbling . America 's red lines were clear enough to Morsi , and they included respecting the Camp David peace treaty between Israel and Egypt and cooperating with Israel on security . Human rights and democracy were , as they had always been in Egypt , tertiary U.S. concerns . <p> * * * <p> The Arab Spring demonstrated the shortsightedness of the " stability paradigm " -- the model of Arab governments doing the West 's bidding in return for the West overlooking the suppression of dissent -- that had animated U.S. and European policy for a half-century . Regimes that once seemed resilient crumbled more quickly than anyone could have imagined . If there was a lesson to be learned , it was that human rights and democratic reform would need to be prioritized after the Obama administration had -- hoping to distinguish itself from its predecessor -- deemphasized their importance . <p> Almost five years later , however , it appears that Western governments have learned rather different lessons . The reorientation that many both in the region and within the foreign-policy community had hoped for did not come to pass . In most Arab countries , with the exception of Libya ( and even then only briefly ) , the Obama administration was content to tinker around the margins of existing policies . This laissez-faire approach produced its own set of consequences . <p> The unwillingness or inability to use American leverage to pressure Arab governments , including those with Islamist leanings , came at a cost . The United States can provide a credible threat of sanction by suspending or canceling much-needed economic assistance . Such a punitive approach can backfire , of course , given the understandable sensitivities in the region about the interference of foreign powers . A better alternative is " positive conditionality " -- providing economic and political incentives for governments to meet explicit , measurable benchmarks on democratic reform . <p> A model for what this might look like is ( or was ) Turkey . After coming to power in 2002 , the Islamist-rooted Justice and Development Party ( AKP ) passed a series of consequential democratic reforms . The prospect of membership in the European Union helped incentivize the AKP to revise the penal code , ease restrictions on freedom of expression , rein in the power of the military , and expand rights for the country 's Kurdish minority . But when the threat of a military coup receded , and negotiations with the EU faltered , the AKP government seemed to lose interest in democratization , increasingly adopting illiberal and undemocratic practices . <p> The European Union has the ability to embed European countries within a thick regional order . No comparable mechanism exists in the Arab world . Yet the template is relevant for understanding how the United States might bind struggling democracies within a mutually beneficial regional order . In a sense , of course , it 's too late . America 's unwillingness to play such a role increased the likelihood that the Muslim Brotherhood , empowered by its conservative base and pressured by its Salafi competitors , would veer rightward and overreach , alienating old and new allies in the process . As demonstrated in Egypt , the governance failures of Islamist parties can have devastating effects on the course of a country 's democratic transition . That Islamists were , once again , ousted , repressed , and exiled from the democratic process brings us back to Algeria in 1992 . The ghosts of Egypt -- the Arab world 's most populous country and long a bellwether for the region -- will linger , but this time for far longer and with greater consequences than those of Algeria . Abdelkader Hachani , it seems , was vindicated . Victory is more dangerous than defeat . 
@@31498821 <p> JERUSALEM -- Israel 's parliament on Wednesday approved a preliminary vote to dissolve itself , putting the country on the verge of an unprecedented third election in a 12-month period while giving scandal-plagued Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu a welcome break as he fights to save his political career . <p> After months of political deadlock following a September election , lawmakers overwhelmingly passed the first of three votes required to dissolve the parliament and set a March 2 date for new elections . Two more readings were scheduled later Wednesday . Lawmakers had faced a midnight deadline that would have automatically dissolved parliament and set elections later in March . <p> A new campaign would prolong a year-long political stalemate that has paralyzed the government and undermined public trust in the government . For the third time in the past year , the country now appears to be heading to what is sure to be a nasty three-month political campaign that according to recent opinion polls is expected to deliver very similar results . <p> In September 's vote , Netanyahu 's Likud party and the rival Blue and White party both were unable to secure a parliamentary majority . Netanyahu and Blue and White 's leader , former military commander Benny Gantz , both failed during officially mandated periods to cobble together a governing coalition . Then , during a final three-week window that ended Wednesday , they were unable to agree on a power-sharing agreement that would have avoided another vote . <p> Both men had insisted they want to avoid another costly election campaign . And together , their parties control a solid majority in the 120-seat Knesset . <p> But neither was willing to compromise on their core demands for a unity government . Netanyahu insisted on serving as prime minister , where he is best positioned to fight his recent indictment on a series of corruption charges . Gantz has refused to serve under a prime minister with such serious legal problems and called on Likud to choose a different leader . <p> Given the divisions in Israeli society , and the deep mistrust between the opposing camps , there appears to be little hope that another vote will break the loop of elections and instability that has rocked the country for the past year . In the recent campaigns , the candidates have launched deep personal attacks on one another , and Netanyahu has been accused of inciting against the country 's Arab minority . <p> " Keep your children away from the television , " said Yair Lapid , a senior member of Blue and White , saying the campaign will be a " festival of hate , violence and disgust . " <p> " What used to be a celebration of democracy has become a moment of shame for this building , " he added . " There are only three reasons for this election -- bribery , fraud and breach of trust , " he said , referring to the criminal charges filed against Netanyahu last month . <p> Netanyahu skipped the vote . But in a video on social media , he accused Gantz of conspiring with Arab leaders and " forcing " new elections . " In order to prevent this happening again , there is only one thing we must do : win and win big , " he said . <p> The upcoming campaign is expected to cost the economy hundreds of millions of dollars , and a string of caretaker governments has frozen major legislation , key appointments , long-term planning and budgets for the military and important government ministries . <p> But for Netanyahu , the country 's longest-sever serving leader , a new campaign offers a much-needed lifeline . <p> Netanyahu was indicted last month on charges of accepting bribes , fraud and breach of trust . He is desperately clinging to power to wage his legal battle from the favorable perch of prime minister . Israeli law does not require a sitting prime minister to resign if charged with a crime . <p> Netanyahu can now use his office in the coming months as a bully pulpit to continue his attacks on prosecutors and police investigators , whom he has accused of staging an " attempted coup " against him . <p> Without a functioning parliament in place , Netanyahu can also put on hold his expected request for immunity from prosecution . <p> The outgoing parliament does not have a majority in favor of granting him immunity . Netanyahu can now hope that the next election delivers him a more favorable result . After the March election , he also could use coalition negotiations as leverage to push potential partners to support his immunity request . Netanyahu 's trial appears to be on hold until the immunity issue is resolved . <p> Yohanan Plesner , president of the Israel Democracy Institute , a nonpartisan think tank , said that being in the prime minister 's post during these negotiations is a huge advantage . " Because then one can trade politically important Cabinet portfolios and so on in return for support for the immunity , " he said . <p> Netanyahu 's first immediate challenge will be to fend off an insurrection inside Likud . The party announced Wednesday that it will hold a leadership primary on Dec. 26 . <p> One renegade lawmaker , Gideon Saar , has already said he will challenge Netanyahu , though the prime minister remains popular in the party and appears to have a solid edge . <p> Netanyahu could also face new legal questions . Although he is currently not required to step down , Israeli law is unclear about whether he could be given the authority to form a new government after the next election . Attorney General Avichai Mandelblit , who was criticized for his slow decision making before he indicted Netanyahu , will now be required to rule on that question as well . <p> Even if Netanyahu overcomes these challenges , polls indicate that he will not be able to muster a majority in favor of granting him immunity or forming a coalition government . <p> Maverick politician Avigdor Lieberman , a former Netanyahu ally , has turned into the prime minister 's greatest nemesis . <p> Lieberman served in a string of Netanyahu governments , but then abruptly resigned as defense minister last December to protest what he thought were weak policies toward Gaza militants . <p> That resignation pushed the country into its current predicament , setting the stage for inconclusive elections in April and then in September . Though Lieberman shares Netanyahu 's hardline views toward the Palestinians , his secular Yisrael Beitenu party opposes Netanyahu 's close relations with ultra-Orthodox religious parties . <p> Refusing to endorse either Netanyahu or Gantz , Lieberman has repeatedly called on them to form a broad unity government . If the three leaders continue to refuse to soften their positions , it seems unlikely a new election will break the deadlock . 
@@31501116 <p> In late November , actor and comedian Sacha Baron Cohen gave a talk at the Anti-Defamation League about hate speech and anti-Semitism on social media . He called Big Tech and social media " the greatest propaganda machine in history , " adding : " Just think what Goebbels could have done with Facebook . " <p> Shortly after , Facebook rejected the accusation , releasing a statement saying that hate speech is banned on the platform . <p> Baron Cohen 's speech has received much attention and widespread support , particularly in mainstream media which echoed and disseminated his observations . <p> The charge of being " the greatest propaganda machine in history " is , of course , loaded and draws our attention to other propaganda machines that existed long before Facebook and which might have a claim to that dubious distinction . Among them are the American war machine and the Israeli hasbara , neither of which Baron Cohen seems to reject . <h> State propaganda and monopoly of information <p> There is some element of truth to what Baron Cohen says . There are people on the racist , xenophobic , anti-Semitic , Islamophobic and white supremacist lunatic fringe that take advantage of social media to propagate hate . <p> But is that all there is to Facebook ? <p> Has it , perhaps inadvertently , also provided a venue for those at the mercy of state and corporate propaganda to talk back at it , reasserting alternative narratives to those presented by , let 's say , the BBC and the New York Times ? <p> I would daresay that those media organisations are , if not the greatest , then certainly major propaganda machines supporting a settler colony that the UK and US have been chiefly responsible for creating and sustaining . They have had that monopoly for decades - deciding and determining the terms of debate on Israel 's colonisation of Palestine . <p> Facebook and other social media platforms have , all their troubling dimensions notwithstanding , offered sites of resistance to their hegemony . <p> For those of us old enough to remember the mode of media coverage prior to the emergence of the internet , Baron Cohen 's observations actually sound quite ludicrous . <p> I remember vividly when the Iranian Revolution of 1977-1979 broke out . Then a graduate student at the University of Pennsylvania , I felt despair at being at the mercy of the New York Times , the Washington Post , or any one of the three major US networks ( ABC , CBS or NBC ) - or particularly BBC radio - to tell me what was happening in Iran . <p> I remember driving to a Radio Shack shop in the King of Prussia suburb of Philadelphia to buy a short-wave device in order to listen to Tehran Radio and find out what was happening in my homeland . This is not to say that Tehran Radio told the truth and the New York Times spread lies . It just means we all needed more than one dominant and hegemonic source of news to make up our own minds . <p> Books have been written on how the New York Times and other major corporate media have helped state propaganda machineries . Consider Edward S Herman and Noam Chomsky 's 1988 classic Manufacturing Consent : The Political Economy of the Mass Media or Richard Falk and Howard Friel 's 2007 book The Record of the Paper : How the New York Times Misreports US Foreign Policy . They both document how monopoly over information , whether state or corporate , has helped justify to the public enormous atrocities and kept it purposefully ignorant of the truth . <h> Breaking the monopoly <p> Perhaps the case of the Palestinian national liberation struggles of the last 70 years is the most potent example of how the internet and social media has enabled Palestinians and supporters of the Palestinian cause to counter the sustained course of Israeli propaganda in order to put the history of their dispossession and the robbery of their homeland on the global stage . <p> The internet started to break the powerful monopoly on how Palestine was portrayed in the 1990s . At first , it gave dissenting voices access to a wider audience . <p> I remember how one day , shortly after he had started his column for the Egyptian Al-Ahram Weekly in 1993 , my colleague and eminent literary theorist Edward Said came to me on campus at Columbia University and declared , " Al-Ahram has liberated me ! " <p> Forget about the New York Times , the chief organ of liberal Zionism , even the so-called progressive outlets like The Nation would not publish his critical assessments of Israeli thievery pre- and post-Oslo Accords . <p> What was the print circulation of Al-Ahram Weekly ? Rather small . But its website gave people around the globe access to Said 's emancipatory writings . <p> Baron Cohen would most probably not like that . Said 's voice was not racist or anti-Semitic . It was and remains liberating and empowering for the dispossessed around the world . <p> Then social media not only opened up spaces for wider discussion on the Palestinian cause , connecting the diaspora and foreign supporters to Palestinians in Palestine , but also enabled grassroots organising and public documentation of Israeli violations and crimes . <p> Take the Boycott , Divestment , Sanctions ( BDS ) campaign . Founded in 2005 , a year after Facebook started and a year before Twitter was launched , it has managed to grow exponentially thanks to social media , which has helped spread its message and boost the effectiveness of its campaigns . It can rally support for boycott action across the world through a network of organisations and volunteers maintained on social media platforms . <p> The campaign has managed to make enough noise on social media and otherwise to get major artists to cancel events in Israel , including Snoop Dogg , Shakira , Laurin Hill and many others . In 2017 , in response to an online BDS letter , New Zealand artist Lorde tweeted : " Noted ! Been speaking w many people about this and considering all options . Thank u for educating me I am learning all the time too " before cancelling her concert in Tel Aviv . <p> The success of the BDS campaign has much to do with the increasing access to information about Israeli crimes on the internet , and especially on social media . Over the past decade , Palestinians and supporters of their cause have increasingly been able not only to document daily Israeli oppression but to post it online for the world to see . <p> Whether it is shocking images of children killed by Israeli fire in Gaza , videos of Israeli snipers shooting an unarmed Palestinian and celebrating it , or footage of Israeli soldiers carrying out an extrajudicial killing -- Palestinians can broadcast to the world Israeli violence in real-time on social media . <p> If it were up to the New York Times and BBC , it is unlikely any of these crimes would be properly reported . It is only because Palestinian voices have been empowered and amplified online that we hear in detail about what is happening in Palestinian lands . <h> Who is to throw the first stone ? <p> I have no love lost for Big Tech . To me , they are big corporations and as such , are as immoral and hazardous as every other big corporation . And there is no doubt of the enormity of the horror of white supremacy and its proponents ' use of these platforms to promote hatred . <p> But social media and the interconnectedness it has encouraged also mean we are not at the mercy of any state or corporate media to decide what is " fit to print " . <p> The question is not whether Facebook is or is not vulnerable to abuse by racist and xenophobic groups . Of course it is . But who is the person levelling these charges and where is the podium from which he launches this attack . <p> Baron Cohen makes money out of perpetuating the worst stereotypes about Arabs and Muslims in his films and shows . And the ADL , where he gave the speech , is itself known for its racist activism . <p> The cause of Zionism that Baron Cohen and the ADL fully embrace has totally discredited the charge of anti-Semitism and weaponised it against those who dare criticise the horrors of the settler colony against Palestinians . <p> But none of that in and of itself discredits what he says . Even a broken clock is accurate twice a day . <p> There is rampant racism , anti-Semitism , Islamophobia , homophobia , etc and social media can be a cesspool for entertaining such nefarious ideas . But we need to be even and identical in our criticism of all of these terrorising forms of racism in one breath . We can not denounce just one while trading in the others . <p> The internet is a blessing and it is a curse . But it has made the world a more level playing ground to oppose and end abuse of power . <p> The views expressed in this article are the author 's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera 's editorial stance . 
@@31509114 <h> Sudan will close office of terrorist groups Hezbollah , Hamas <h> The offices of Hamas , Hezbollah , and any other Islamic group designated as terrorist by the US will close , as Sudan wants to put its own interests first . <p> Lieutenant General Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo greets his supporters during a meeting in Khartoum , Sudan . <p> ( photo credit : REUTERS/UMIT BEKTAS ) <p> The Sudanese transitional government is slated to close the offices of foreign terrorist organizations Hamas and Hezbollah , according to a report in the Middle East Eye . <p> The Qatar-regime-financed online news outlet reported that , " A reliable Sudanese source close to Prime Minister Abdallah Hamdok 's office disclosed to Middle East Eye that the government will close the offices of foreign groups designated as terrorists by the US , including Hamas and Hezbollah . " <p> According to the report , " The Sudanese source who spoke to MEE , who asked for anonymity because he was not authorized to talk to the media , said : ' The government will close the offices of Hamas and Hezbollah and any other Islamic group designated as terrorist groups that have a presence in Sudan , because Sudan has nothing actually to do with these groups -- and the interests of Sudan are above everything . ' " <p> The Sudanese source added : " Actually , they have hidden their presence in the past few years , but we wo n't tolerate any individual 's presence in the future . " <p> The outlet said the action to evict Hamas and Hezbollah from the North African country was meant to convince the United States government to delist Sudan as a state-sponsor of terrorism . The US proscribed Sudan a state-sponsor of terrorism in 1993 after it hosted the now-deceased al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden . <p> In early December , the US and Sudan agreed to begin exchanging ambassadors again after more than two decades . US-Sudan relations have improved since the Sudanese people overthrew the dictatorship of former president Omar al-Bashir . <p> US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo did not address the terrorism classification at the time of Abdallah 's December visit . <p> The US government said that Sudan has still not met the conditions for being delisted from its terrorism list , but that the country is making progress . <p> Sudan accused Israel of carrying out an airstrike that killed two people in a car near the city of Port Sudan in 2011 . In 2009 , Sudan said that a convoy of human traffickers were hit by unidentified aircraft in the country . <p> Then-prime minister Ehud Olmert said at the time : " We operate everywhere where we can hit terror infrastructure -- in close places and in places further away . " <p> Arms smugglers have used Sudan as a pipeline to send weapons to the Hamas-controlled Gaza Strip . The EU and the US classify Hamas as a terrorist organization . The UK , US , Canada , the Arab League , the Netherlands and Israel designate the Iranian-backed Hezbollah as a terrorist entity . <p> In May , a Sudanese general announced a shift in its foreign policy to back Saudi Arabia instead of its traditional ally Iran . " Sudan is standing with the kingdom against all threats and attacks from Iran and Houthi militias , " said General Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo in his meeting with Saudi crown prince Mohammed bin Salman . <p> According to the US State Department entry on terrorism , " Sudan broke diplomatic relations with the United States in 1967 after the start of the Arab-Israeli War . Relations were reestablished in 1972 . Sudan established links with international terrorist organizations resulting in the United States ' designation of Sudan as a State Sponsor of Terrorism in 1993 and the suspension of US Embassy operations in 1996 . The US Embassy was reopened in 2002 . " <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31509818 <h> The myth of victory in modern warfare <p> Kurdish forces seized control of the Syrian town of Kobani in January 2015 after a four-month battle with Islamic State fighters . Footage of their triumph was relayed around the world . A global audience witnessed Kurdish troops indulge in raucous celebrations as they raised their flag on the hill that once flew the IS black banner . <p> And so it came as something of a shock when , in October 2019 , Donald Trump granted Turkey carte blanche to seize territory held by the Kurds . Consequently , what once appeared an emphatic victory for the Kurds has since descended into yet another dismal defeat . <p> This is not an unusual tale . Victories have also been proclaimed in the recent wars in Iraq , Afghanistan , and Libya , only for violence to continue unabated . <p> The spectre of these apparently endless wars gives us cause to consider whether the notion of " victory " has any purchase or meaning in respect of contemporary warfare . Having spent the best part of the last decade thinking about this very question , I have come to believe that the idea of victory in modern war is nothing more than a myth , albeit an enduringly dangerous one . <p> As I argue in my new book , it 's high time for us to think again , and more deeply than we have done before , about what victory in war means today . <h> The view from Washington <p> The three most recent occupants of the White House offer very different views on the issue of victory . President Trump has made it both the cornerstone of his rhetoric and the lodestar of US foreign and security policy . " You 're going to be so proud of your country , " he assured the audience at a campaign rally in 2016 : <p> We 're going to start winning again : we 're going to win at every level , we 're going to win economically ... we 're going to win militarily ... we 're going to win with every single facet , we 're going to win so much , you may even get tired of winning , and you 'll say ' please , please , it 's too much winning , we ca n't take it anymore . ' And I 'll say , ' no , it is n't . ' We have to keep winning , we have to win more , we 're going to win more . <p> Victory also loomed large in George W. Bush 's statements on world politics . Delivering a keynote speech on the Iraq War in 2005 , for example , Bush used the word " victory " 15 times while standing in front of a sign that read " Plan for Victory " and pitching a document entitled " Our National Strategy for Victory in Iraq . " <p> Sandwiched between Bush and Trump , Barack Obama took a very different view . Convinced that the idiom of victory was a retrograde way to talk about how modern wars end , he sought to excise it from US strategic discourse . The term " victory " is unhelpful , he explained , because it evokes crude associations with conquest and triumphalism . <p> Reuters/Larry Downing <p> Victory also loomed large in President George W. Bush 's statements on world politics . <p> The disagreement between Trump and Bush on the one hand , and Obama on the other , runs deeper than a mere difference in rhetorical style ( or lack thereof ) . It reflects profound uncertainties about the appropriateness of the language of victory to modern war . <p> Since the early 20th century , the view has emerged that , when it comes to the mechanized mass slaughter of modern warfare , nobody wins . As Aristide Briand -- prime minister of France for periods either side of the first world war -- put it : " In modern war there is no victor . Defeat reaches out its heavy hand to the uttermost corners of the Earth and lays its burdens on victor and vanquished alike . " <p> Bao Ninh , a veteran of the North Vietnamese Army and the author of one of the most moving war novels of the 20th century , The Sorrow of War , made much the same argument , but in simpler terms : " In war , no one wins or loses . There is only destruction . " <h> Victory is dead ... <p> Irrespective of whatever Bush and Trump might believe , it is certainly tempting to say that there can be no such thing as victory in modern war . It is easy to believe that war is so ghastly and so destructive that it can never result in anything that could reasonably be called a victory . Any successes achieved on the battlefield , it might be argued are likely to be both so tenuous and bought at such a bloody cost that the mere idea of calling them " victories " appears ironic . <p> But this can only be part of the story . It is too glib to declare victory in modern war an untenable proposition on the grounds that it can only be purchased at a terrible cost in human lives and suffering . The value of a victory may be diminished by a steep price tag , but not entirely negated by it . <p> For instance , while the Second World War produced a truly barbaric body count , and boasts the Cold War among its legacies , it also halted Nazism in its tracks . This , it goes without saying , must count for something . More recently , while the 1991 Gulf War arguably created more problems than it solved , it also successfully reversed Iraqi aggression in Kuwait . <p> My point here is a simple one : although victory can be hideously costly in modern war , and it invariably accomplishes far less than it is intended to achieve , it is not an entirely vacuous concept . <p> This brings us to the first of three twists in our tale . What is out of date here is not actually the general concept of victory itself , but the notion that victory is the product of decisive battles . The nature of modern warfare is not conducive to clear cut endings . Instead of yielding an emphatic victory for one side and , conversely , an incontrovertible defeat for the other , modern armed conflicts are prone to descend into protracted , drawn out endgames . <p> So it can sometimes be difficult to discern not only which side has won a given war but whether that war can even be deemed over in the first place . The words of Phil Klay , a writer who served in Iraq several years after president Bush had already declared " mission accomplished " , captured something of this confusion : <p> Success was a matter of perspective . In Iraq it had to be . There was no Omaha Beach , no Vicksburg Campaign , not even an Alamo to signal a clear defeat . The closest we 'd come were those toppled Saddam statues , but that was years ago . <p> What this suggests is that victories no longer assume the form that they are expected to assume or that they had assumed in the past . If victory has historically been associated with the defeat of the adversary in a climactic pitched battle , this vision is now a relic from a bygone era . This is not how wars end in the 21st century . <h> Was victory ever really alive ? <p> There is , then , plenty of evidence to support the view that , when it is spoken about in terms of decisiveness achieved through success in pitched battle , victory has little relevance to contemporary armed conflict . <p> But this is where we encounter the second twist in our tale . Some scholars claim that the vision of victory associated with decisive battle did not suddenly become problematic with the advent of the " war on terror , " nor even with the birth of modern warfare . Rather , they argue , it has always been problematic . <p> The historian Russell F. Weigley is the leading proponent of this view . He contends that the idea of decisive victory through battle is a romantic trope left over from the only time in history when wars were routinely decided by a single clash of arms : the long century bookended by the battles of Breitenfeld ( 1631 ) and Waterloo ( 1815 ) . <p> An excessively battle-centric understanding of warfare has taken root in the popular imagination . <p> Spectacular but also unique to this period of history , the set-piece battles of this era , Weigley argues , have had a distorting effect upon how war has been understood ever since . The pomp and drama of these clashes was such that they captured the imagination of military historians and the general public alike . Ignoring the fact that that attrition , raiding , and siege craft , rather than grand battles , have historically been the principal means by which wars have been waged , historians ( and their readers ) have been culpable of buying into ( and perpetuating ) a kind of Hollywood vision of war that mistakes an exception to the norm . <p> This excessively battle-centric understanding of warfare has taken root in the popular imagination . Most contemporary representations of war -- in literature , media , art , and film -- envision it as a sequence of battles leading up to and culminating in a decisive set-piece clash of the kind that the 2015 footage from Kobani ostensibly captured . This reflects a distortion of the historical record . In actual fact , very few wars down the centuries have pivoted on battles . Most have hinged on harrying , manoeuvring , and the denial of access to vital resources . So far as we fail to see this , a proclivity to " boy 's own history " is to blame . <p> The idea of decisive victory predicated on success in battle is simply a historical curio that , one interlude aside , has seldom had much relevance to the material realities of war . <h> Long live victory ! <p> So should this be the end of the matter ? Obama and all the other critics of victory have , it seems , been vindicated . It is not merely that victory , couched in terms of decisiveness and indexed to success in pitched battle , has little relevance to the vagaries of contemporary warfare , it is that ( one period around the 17th century aside ) it has never had any salience . <p> This brings us to the third and final twist in our tale . While it is true that the idea of decisive victories achieved through pitched battle may be regarded as a product of lazy history writing , this should not be taken to mean that it is of no importance to how warfare is understood and practised . Even if it is just a myth , the idea of victory through decisive battle still bears significant clout . Chimerical though it may be , it still functions as a kind of regulative ideal , guiding people 's understanding , not so much of how wars actually end , but of how they ought to end . <p> Decisive victories may well be a rare beast , historically speaking , but they are also widely posited as the goal toward which all militaries should strive . This argument can be derived from the writings of , among others , the controversial historian Victor Davis Hanson . <p> Hanson , whose most recent book is a letter of support for the Trump presidency , is better known for writing several works dedicated to making the case that the idea of decisive victory through battle continues to carry moral weight in Western political culture , even though a long time has passed since it was germane in a military sense . <p> Hanson traces the idea of decisive victory through battle to classical Greek civilization and argues that it reflects the longstanding belief that the best way for communities to settle intractable disputes is to send citizen armies to face one another across an open battlefield and there fight it out . By confronting one another in a kill-or-be-killed scenario , societies commit to testing , not only their valour and military prowess , but also the values they fight for in the crucible of combat . Any outcomes that arise from such contests , must , it follows , be respected as the verdict of battle . <p> There is plenty of evidence to support this view . The history of Western thinking about war from the classical world to the present day is marked by both a repugnance for the adoption of tactics that circumvent the opportunity for pitched battle , and a readiness to sneer at any victories won by those means as somehow less worthy . <p> In ancient Greece , Odysseus was scorned for his predilection for overcoming his enemies by guile rather than by hand-to-hand combat . In Persia , King Cyrus was similarly lambasted for relying on trickery to overcome his foes " rather than conquering them by force in battle . " In the fourth century BC , Alexander the Great valorized victories won by direct confrontation in pitched battles . He responded with contempt when his adviser , Parmenio , proposed launching a night-time ambush on their foes : " The policy you are suggesting is one of bandits and thieves ... I am resolved to attack openly and by daylight . I choose to regret my good fortune rather than be ashamed of my victory . " <p> Beyond the classical world , knights in the middle ages were wont to burnish their victories by exaggerating the importance of battles and downplaying the part played by more humdrum modes of warring ( such as raiding ) in delivering them . These views also carried over into the canon of modern strategic thought . <p> The survival of this way of thinking into the present era is evident in the approbation that greets the use of those modes of fighting ( such as the use of guerrilla tactics , terrorism , and drones ) that preclude the finality of a decisive victory on the battlefield being achieved by either side . This reflects , I think , a lingering sense that any mode of belligerency that is not geared toward producing victory through the kind of fair fight that a battlefield contest is believed to represent must , in some sense , be morally problematic . <p> And so even though the ideal of decisive victory is best understood as nothing more than a myth , it still matters . It still shapes how we understand , think about , and indeed approach war . As such , it continues to guide our thinking about what war can achieve , when it should be employed , by what means it should be conducted , and how and when it should be concluded . To imagine that it can simply be struck from our vocabulary , as Obama apparently assumed , is as naive as it is foolish . But recognizing this also reveals some unsettling realities . <p> Reuters/Charles Platiau <p> The ideal of decisive victory continues to shape how we think about war . <h> ' Mowing the lawn ' <p> The ideal of decisive victory , then , is a myth , albeit an enduringly powerful one that continues to shape how we think about war . And this myth poses some dangers . <p> It 's a myth that tempts us to think that war can still be a conclusive way of settling disputes between societies . It invites us to believe that societies can resolve their conflicts by simply fighting them out , with the winner taking all and loser honourably accepting its defeat as the verdict of battle . The problem with this vision is , of course , that it promises too much . War is too blunt an instrument to deliver such a clean ending . In a way , then , this belief sells us a false bill of goods -- one that comes at a terrible cost in blood and treasure . One need only look to the plight of the Kurds in Kobani for proof of this . <p> To our detriment , we appear to be both stuck with and trapped by the language of victory . <p> The Israeli strategic doctrine known as ' mowing the lawn ' provides an intriguing counterpoint to this . Whereas Israeli strategists traditionally focused on procuring decisive battlefield victories against rival state armies , recent experiences in Gaza have led them to adopt a different approach . <p> Instead of supposing that the Israeli Defence Force ( IDF ) should aim to vanquish its enemies once and for all in direct combat , it is directed toward the pursuit of more modest , contingent objectives . The doctrine counsels that the IDF must treat the threat from Israel 's enemies in the same way that a gardener approaches the mowing of their lawn : that is , as a recurrent task that can never be fully completed but must instead be returned to at regular intervals . <p> As such , it reflects a hard-won acceptance of the fact that Israel will not achieve a final victory over its foes any time soon . In its place , it proposes that the best Israel can hope for is provisional gains -- namely , the degradation and short-term containment of its enemies -- that require constant and recurrent consolidation . <p> There are clearly very serious problems with this position -- problems that I do not wish to deflect from or in any way minimize -- but it does raise some interesting possibilities for how we think about victory . Specifically , it provokes us to reflect on what victory might look like if we ceased indexing it to notions of decisiveness and conclusiveness . <p> How might we reconfigure our understanding of victory so that it is coupled to provisional rather than final outcomes ? This would presumably involve reframing it in partial and contingent rather than comprehensive terms . There is much to be said for this . But above all else , it would reconnect how we think about victory with the realities of modern warfare and a more sober assessment of the kind of goods it can deliver . <p> My point is not to persuade states to ape Israel 's strategic posture . It is , rather , to encourage reflection on the conundrum that victory in modern war poses . <h> What does winning mean today ? <p> Thinking about contemporary armed conflict in terms of victory is problematic because modern warfare is not configured in such a way as to produce what we might regard as a clear-cut victory for one side and an emphatic defeat for the other . Construed this way , victory appears more mythical than real . <p> But even if it is a myth , it colors how we approach contemporary armed conflict today , tempting us to believe that clean endings are still a possibility -- when they are evidently not . Victory is , in this sense , a red herring . <p> One solution to this conundrum would be to strike victory from our vocabularies . That is , to simply cease talking about it or in its terms . Yet this is easier said than done . As Obama discovered , the language of victory is very difficult to circumvent or evade . Just when you think it 's dead , it comes back with even greater force behind it . <p> The dilemma , then , is clear . Victory : ca n't live with it , ca n't live without it . The challenge arising from this is to rethink what we mean by victory . If , as the historian Christopher Hill once wrote , every generation must rewrite its history anew , the ever-changing nature of war demands that every generation must also rethink its understanding of military victory . <p> This article is part of Conversation Insights . The Conversation 's Insights team generates long-form journalism derived from interdisciplinary research . You can read more Insights stories here . 
@@31532313 <h> Are Christians facing persecution in the cradle of Christianity ? <h> The organization Open Doors , whose mission is to raise awareness and support for persecuted Christians , included the Palestinian territories in their World Watch List , mentioning Islamic oppression . <p> By JERUSALEM POST STAFF <p> DECEMBER 23 , 2019 19:17 <p> Armenian Patriarch of Jerusalem Nourhan Manougian arrives to lead a mass at the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem January 18 , 2019 . <p> ( photo credit : MUSSA QAWASMA / REUTERS ) <p> Despite being the world 's largest religion , with over 2.4 billion adherents , the Christian population of the Middle East , including the Palestinian territories , is facing more difficulties than ever before . <p> Ten years ago , in 2009 , the Christian population in Gaza was estimated to be around 3,000 people , according to Reuters . At the new turn of the decade , the number has shrunk by of two-thirds , to an estimated 1,000 worshipers , most of them Greek Orthodox . <p> This year , at least three major incidents have affected Christians living in the West Bank , according to a report by the conservative think tank Begin-Sadat Center for Strategic Studies : a mob targeted the Christian village of Jifna near Ramallah , causing significant property damage and terrifying its residents , while a Maronite Church in Bethlehem and an Anglican Church near Ramallah were broken into and vandalized . <p> According to a report commissioned by then-British Foreign Minister Jeremy Hunt earlier this year , Christians used to represent about 20% of the population in the Middle East and Africa about a century ago , and today they are about 4% , and the numbers of Palestinian Christians have especially dwindled . <p> " We 've all been asleep on the watch when it comes to the persecution of Christians , " Hunt said , while commenting the findings of the report in May , as quoted by The Guardian . <p> The Christian organization Open Doors , whose mission is to raise awareness and support persecuted Christians , included the Palestinian territories in their World Watch List , an annual report on the global persecution of Christians ranking the top 50 countries where they are persecuted for their faith . <p> The report mentioned " Islamic oppression " as the main source of persecution , adding that " Islamic extremist militants are also present in the West Bank , causing Christians to fear being attacked , " and that the persecution is especially brutal for those who convert to Christianity . <p> The report also noted that " Christians are caught in the crossfire of the ongoing Palestinian-Israeli conflict . Their ethnicity means many restrictions from the Israeli side while their faith makes them a minority in the Muslim-majority Palestinian community . " <p> " Israeli restrictions and the fear of growing Islamic extremism has caused many Christians to emigrate , " it further stated . <p> " Though the Christians in the PA avoid saying so publicly , many of them fear -- with good reason -- that Muslim aggression against them will only escalate . Such fears are all the stronger in light of the thunderous silence of the Western ( and Israeli ) media in the face of the Christian minority 's ongoing disappearance from the PA and Islamic lands in general , " Edy Cohen , a researcher at the Begin-Sadat Center for Strategic Studies wrote . <p> " The ongoing international neglect of the plight of the Christians under PA rule can only lead to the vanishing of Christianity from the place where it emerged , " he added . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31532320 <p> A churchgoer drops to the ground and prays in the street near burning tires lit by protesters , during a march called by religious leaders in Port-au-Prince , Haiti , on Oct. 22 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> A mourner places a hand on the shoulder of Devi Posto , killed during clashes between security forces and supporters of former President Evo Morales , during a vigil at the San Francisco de Asis church in El Alto , on the outskirts of La Paz , Bolivia , on Nov. 20 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> A lush forest sits next to a field of charred trees in Vila Nova Samuel , Brazil , on Aug. 27 , 2019 . The fires that swept parts of the Amazon this year added to global worries about a warming climate , as well as the sense of urgency at the Climate Action Summit at the United Nations . <p> Associated Press <p> Robert Fuller lies unconscious after plunging drugs that will end his life into his feeding tube as his husband , Reese Baxter , upper left , and friends hold him , in Seattle on May 10 , 2019 . Fuller was one of about 1,200 people who have used Washington 's Death with Dignity Act to end their lives in the decade since it became law . <p> Associated Press <p> Floodlights from the U.S. , left , illuminate multiple border walls , center , as traffic flows along a street in Tijuana , Mexico , on Jan. 7 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> Carol Dean , right , cries and embraces Megan Anderson and her 18-month-old daughter , Madilyn , as Dean sifts through the debris of the home she shared with her husband , David Wayne Dean , who died when a tornado destroyed the house in Beauregard , Ala. , on March 4 , 2019 . " He was my wedding gift , " said Dean of her husband whom she married three years ago . " He was one in a million . He 'd send me flowers to work just to let me know he loved me . He 'd send me some of the biggest strawberries in the world . I 'm not going to be the same . " <p> Associated Press <p> Women and children ride in the back of a truck that is part of a convoy evacuating hundreds out of the last territory held by Islamic State militants in Baghouz , Syria , on Feb. 20 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> A bleeding man is taken away by policemen after he was attacked by protesters outside Kwai Chung police station in Hong Kong on July 31 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> A mural is illuminated at dusk on Feb. 8 , 2019 , on the chimney of a home in Paradise , Calif. , that was destroyed by the Camp Fire . Artist Shane Grammer says he painted murals throughout the fire-ravaged town to convey hope in the midst of destruction . <p> Associated Press <p> A demonstrator wearing a Puerto Rican flag joins thousands of others in a march to the governor 's residence in San Juan , Puerto Rico , on July 17 , 2019 . The protesters chanted demands for Gov . Ricardo Rossello to resign after the leak of online chats that showed him making misogynistic slurs and mocking his constituents . <p> Associated Press <p> President Donald Trump pumps his fist to the crowd after speaking to a campaign rally in Montoursville , Pa. , on May 20 , 2019 . <p> Democratic presidential candidate Sen. Kamala Harris , D-Calif. , meets with civil rights leader Rev. Al Sharpton , president of the National Action Network , during lunch at Sylvia 's Restaurant in the Harlem neighborhood of New York on Feb. 21 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> Two ballerinas rest as other dancers perform during a rehearsal in the Bolshoi Theater in Moscow , Russia , on June 11 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> A demonstrator is knocked over by a strand of barbed wire during clashes with the Bolivarian National Guard in Urena , Venezuela , near the border with Colombia on Feb. 23 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> A youth is carried by medics to a safe zone after he was injured in clashes with Venezuelan National Guardsmen blocking the entry of U.S.-supplied humanitarian aid on the Simon Bolivar International Bridge in La Parada , Colombia , near the border with Venezuela on Feb. 25 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> Anti-government protesters take cover during a demonstration in Baghdad , Iraq , as security forces open fire on Oct. 4 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> A manned submersible surfaces after a failed mission to recover a stranded remotely operated vehicle in the Indian Ocean near the Seychelles islands on March 13 , 2019 . The British-based Nekton mission has embarked on an unprecedented exploration of the Indian Ocean to document changes taking place beneath the waves that could affect billions of people in the surrounding region over the coming decades . <p> Associated Press <p> A masked Kashmiri protester jumps on an Indian police armored vehicle as he throws stones at it during a protest in Srinagar , Indian-controlled Kashmir on May 31 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> A riot policeman removes an anti-government protester who is blocking a main highway with her body in Beirut , Lebanon , on Oct. 26 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> Relatives of crash victims mourn at the scene where the Ethiopian Airlines Boeing 737 Max 8 passenger jet crashed shortly after takeoff , killing all 157 on board , near Bishoftu , Ethiopia , southeast of Addis Ababa , on March 14 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> People celebrate during the traditional Cascamorras festival in Baza , Spain , on Sept. 6 , 2019 . During the festival , and according to an ancient tradition , participants throw black paint over each other for several hours every September 6 in the small town in the southern province of Granada . The " Cascamorras " represents a thief who attempted to steal a religious image from a local church . People try to stop him , chasing him and throwing black paint as they run through the streets . <p> Associated Press <p> Members of the vigilante group United Front of Guerrero Community Police ( FUPCEG ) patrol in Xaltianguis , in Mexico 's Guerrero state , on May 29 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> A migrant mother feeds her children in a freight train in Palenque , Chiapas state , Mexico , as they travel north on June 24 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> Workers replace sections of the border wall , left , with new sections , right , on Jan. 8 , 2019 , in Tijuana , Mexico . <p> Associated Press <p> Marching anti-government protesters are seen through a window with peeled off posters in Hong Kong on Oct. 1 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> Buildings are reflected in the window of a car as WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange is taken from court , where he appeared on charges of jumping British bail seven years ago , in London on May 1 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> Kashmiri Muslim women shout slogans as Indian policemen fire tear gas and live ammunition into the air to stop the protest march in Srinagar , Indian controlled Kashmir , on Aug. 9 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> A group of boys play basketball at the Petare shantytown , in Caracas , Venezuela , on May 16 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> People crowd around U.S. White House senior adviser Ivanka Trump , back left , to take selfies with her at the end of the Women Entrepreneurs Finance Initiative , or We-Fi , event sponsored by the World Bank Group on April 17 , 2019 , in Abidjan , Ivory Coast , where Trump is promoting a White House global economic program for women . <p> Associated Press <p> Hooded penitents from the ' ' Entrada de Jesus en Jerusalem ' ' brotherhood prepare to take part in a Holy Week Palm Sunday procession in Zaragoza , Spain , on April 14 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> Tyler Holland guides his bike through the water as winds from Tropical Storm Barry push water from Lake Pontchartrain over the sea wall in Mandeville , La. , on July 13 , 2019 . <p> Pedestrians are seen through the reflection of an advertisement in a window as they walk along a busy street in the Shibuya district of Tokyo on June 9 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> Fatimazehra El Ghazaoui , 27 , a woman affected by a rare disorder called xeroderma pigmentosum , or XP , puts on a protective mask she wears outside on sunny days , in her home in Mohammedia , Morocco , near Casablanca , on July 16 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> People light fireworks above the rubble of destroyed buildings to celebrate the holy month of Ramadan in Gaza City on May 13 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> The bodies of Salvadoran migrant Oscar Alberto Mart ? nez Ram ? rez and his nearly 2-year-old daughter Valeria lie on the bank of the Rio Grande in Matamoros , Mexico , on June 24 , 2019 , after they drowned trying to cross the river to Brownsville , Texas . Martinez ' wife , Tania told Mexican authorities she watched her husband and child disappear in the strong current . <p> Associated Press <p> Health workers wearing protective suits tend to an Ebola victim kept in an isolation cube in Beni , Congo , on July 13 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> Boys swing censers using the smoke from incense to purify the path of the Holy Tuesday procession known as " La Resena , " in downtown Guatemala City on April 16 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> Supporters of former President Evo Morales protect themselves from tear gas launched by the police in La Paz , Bolivia , on Nov. 15 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> Models walk the runway during the fashion show of the Dior ready to wear Fall-Winter 2019-2020 collection in Paris on Feb. 26 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> Ballet dancer Erin King of Ballet Central prepares to pose for photos at the Central School of Ballet in London on Feb. 20 , 2019 . The dancers were preparing for a photo-call inspired by the 1945 musical " Carousel " by Rodgers and Hammerstein from the forthcoming Ballet Central 2019 tour . <p> Associated Press <p> President Donald Trump turns to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi of Calif. , as he delivers his State of the Union address to a joint session of Congress on Capitol Hill in Washington , as Vice President Mike Pence watches , on Feb. 5 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> A woman and her baby , who were evacuated from the last territory held by Islamic State militants , walk after being screened by U.S.-backed Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) in the desert outside Baghouz , Syria , on Feb. 25 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> Family photos of some of those who died hang on display in an exhibition at the Kigali Genocide Memorial center in the Rwandan capital , Kigali , on April 5 , 2019 . Rwanda commemorated the 25th anniversary of the country 's descent into an orgy of violence in which some 800,000 Tutsis and moderate Hutus were massacred by the majority Hutu population over a 100-day period in what was the worst genocide in recent history . <p> Associated Press <p> Ruby Khan helps her 7-year-old son Farmaan get ready for school in New Delhi , India , on Jan. 18 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> Ruling party Sen. Ralph Fethiere fires his gun outside Parliament as he arrives for a vote on the ratification of Fritz William Michel 's nomination as prime minister in Port-au-Prince , Haiti , on Sept. 23 , 2019 . Opposition members confronted ruling-party senators , and Fethiere pulled the pistol when protesters rushed at him and members of his entourage . The vote was canceled . <p> Associated Press <p> People navigate their way through a street flooded by torrential rains in Mumbai , India , on Sept. 4 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> Ana , an 88-year-old Greek Catholic , waits for the arrival of Pope Francis and the start of the Divine Liturgy and the beatification of seven martyred bishops of the Eastern-rite Romanian Catholic Church , in Blaj , Romania , on June 2 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> Seagulls fly toward a woman feeding them french fries from her car on Taino beach before the arrival of Hurricane Dorian in Freeport , Grand Bahama , Bahamas , on Sept. 1 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> A protester in Hong Kong , who identified herself as Morty , poses for a portrait next to pieces of broken glass as a projector displays a photo behind her from a previous day of unrest , on Oct. 16 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> Police advance on anti-government protesters , past a religious statue that protesters removed from a church and then damaged , in Santiago , Chile , on Nov. 8 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> A local resident uses his mobile phone to take photos of the damage in a house caused by a mortar fired from inside Syria on the Turkish town of Akcakale on Oct. 12 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> A troupe charges and fires their rifles during Tabourida , a traditional horse riding show also known as Fantasia , in the coastal town of El Jadida , Morocco , on July 25 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> A Brazilian soldier puts out fires at the Nova Fronteira region in Novo Progresso , Brazil , on Sept. 3 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> Flamengo soccer fans cheer a goal scored by Gabriel against Argentina 's River Plate in the Copa Libertadores final match , broadcast on a giant screen at a watch party at the Macarena Stadium , in Rio de Janeiro , Brazil , on Nov. 23 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> Volunteers wade through a flooded road against wind and rain brought on by Hurricane Dorian to rescue families near the Causarina bridge in Freeport , Grand Bahama , Bahamas , on Sept. 3 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> A silverback mountain gorilla named Segasira looks up as he lies under a tree in the Volcanoes National Park , Rwanda , on Sept. 2 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> A man holding an independence flag is surrounded by smoke released by demonstrators during the Catalan National Day in Barcelona , Spain , on Sept. 11 , 2019 . September 11 , called " Diada , " marks the fall of the Catalan capital to Spanish forces in 1714 . <p> Associated Press <p> Supporters of President Nicolas Maduro hold a banner of Venezuela 's independence hero Simon Bolivar during a rally celebrating 11 years of Venezuela 's Socialist Party Youth in Caracas , Venezuela , on Sept. 12 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> St. Mark 's Square in Venice , Italy , is flooded at high tide on Nov. 15 , 2019 , just three days after the lagoon city experienced its worst flooding in more than 50 years . <p> Associated Press <p> A Shiite Muslim child beats his chest next to his father during a procession to mark the end of the 40-day mourning period following the anniversary of the 7th century death of Imam Hussein , the Prophet Muhammad 's grandson and one of Shiite Islam 's most beloved saints , in Lahore , Pakistan , on Oct. 20 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> Anti-government demonstrators shine laser pointers at the police during a protest in Santiago , Chile , on Nov. 12 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> An alligator ignores the small fish swimming nearby as it awaits its next opportunity for a meal in the Big Cypress National Preserve in Florida on Oct. 30 , 2019 . A fishing line dangles from the reptile 's mouth . <p> Associated Press <p> Student protesters with their homemade gear take their positions outside the Chinese University of Hong Kong on Nov. 13 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> The Sugar Cane Cooperative 's mill processes sugar cane at dawn in Belle Glade , Fla. , near Lake Okeechobee , on Nov. 1 , 2019 . The mill operates 24-hours a day during the harvest season , grinding as much as 26,000 tons of sugar cane per day . <p> Associated Press <p> Six-year-old Muneefa Nazir , a Kashmiri girl whose right eye was hit by a marble ball shot allegedly by Indian Paramilitary soldiers on Aug. 12 , stands outside her home in Srinagar , Indian controlled Kashmir on Sept. 17 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> Revelers celebrate as fireworks explode over the Metropolitan Cathedral in Mexico City after President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador gave the annual independence shout from the balcony of the National Palace to kick off Independence Day celebrations on Sept. 15 , 2019 . <p> Associated Press <p> Demonstrators protest in front of the National Police during clashes in Barcelona , Spain , on Oct. 15 , 2019 , the day after Spain 's Supreme Court convicted 12 former Catalan politicians and activists for their roles in a secession bid in 2017 . <p> Associated Press <p> Firemen spray water after a car bomb exploded in the city of Qamishli , northern Syria , on Nov. 11 , 2019 . <p> Guidelines : Keep it civil and on topic ; no profanity , vulgarity , slurs or personal attacks . People who harass others or joke about tragedies will be blocked . If a comment violates these standards or our terms of service , click the X in the upper right corner of the comment box . To find our more , read our FAQ. 
@@31534613 <h> The ICC , settlements and the Orwellian denial of the Jewish presence in Israel <h> The fact remains that the position that settlements are illegal as such serves a war-like narrative that denies any legitimacy to Jewish presence on the entire territory of Israel . <p> By EMMANUEL ALTIT/JENNIFER NAOURI/DOV JACOBS <p> DECEMBER 27 , 2019 18:15 <p> Palestinian boys walk near Jewish settlements in the West Bank village of Jaloud near Nablus <p> ( photo credit : ABED OMAR QUSINI/REUTERS ) <p> In December 5 , the Office of the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court issued its yearly report on preliminary examination activities . In it , the prosecutor confirmed that it was particularly focusing on reported settlement-related activities engaged in by Israeli authorities in the West Bank and east Jerusalem . This means that for the prosecutor of the ICC , what she calls settlement-related activities are considered international crimes under the Rome Statute . <p> On December 20 , the prosecutor filed a motion with a pre-trial chamber requesting a ruling on the scope of the exercise of the court 's territorial jurisdiction . In that motion the prosecutor indicated that she considered that all conditions were met for the opening of a formal investigation in the situation of Palestine , pending the pre-trial chamber 's determination on territorial jurisdiction . <p> Interestingly , in her motion , the prosecutor relies heavily on the idea that settlement activities are per se illegal , to advocate that Israel would be principally responsible for Palestine 's incapacity to exercise its right to self-determination , and that therefore , despite the fact that all relevant criteria of statehood would not be fulfilled at this point in time , Palestine should still be considered a state under international law . <p> These statements coming from the ICC prosecutor follow by a few weeks the announcement by US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo that " the establishment of Israeli civilian settlements in the West Bank is not per se inconsistent with international law , " thus reversing the Obama administration 's position adopted in 2016 , especially when it supported UNSC 2334 of 23 December 2016 , apparently drafted by the UK with the help of the Palestinians , which considered all settlements illegal under international law . <p> This announcement has sparked considerable reaction and commentary on whether it was legally grounded or not , in other words , on the legality of Israeli activities in Judea and Samaria and east Jerusalem . This is not the place to enter into these discussions . What is interesting here is to explore one specific aspect of them and uncover what is behind the position that the Israeli presence in Judea and Samaria and east Jerusalem is per se illegal . <p> If one analyzes the arguments put forward in that respect , it becomes apparent that those who support them , willingly or unwillingly , serve the cause of a certain narrative . What is this narrative ? That there exists an Arab autochthonous ( indigenous ) population and that logically this population owns the land by virtue of a right of first occupant . <p> This forms the basis of the Palestinian narrative advocated since the creation of the PLO in the 1960s . In this context , Jewish Israelis are portrayed exclusively as settlers coming from Europe . As a consequence of this narrative the idea is put forward that the State of Israel is the result of the colonization of the territory by a foreign population . Why ? Because colonization -- especially in the context of the decolonization process of the 1960s , being as such an illegitimate process -- the State of Israel could be denounced as illegitimate . <p> SINCE THE question in this narrative is to determine who the first occupant was , this implies that historical Jewish presence must be denied and that , as a corollary , Palestinians need to prove that they were the first occupants . The consequence of this narrative is that anything Jewish is erased from the history of the country . <p> For example , recently , Palestinian academics denied archaeological evidence of Jews in Israel , part of a narrative to portray Jews as recent invaders . More generally , this creates an impossible historical conundrum , since the presence of an Arab population emerged as a notable community in the territory of Israel after the Muslim conquests of the seventh Century and that , thereafter , this population always cohabited with the Jewish and Christian communities that remained after the conquests . <p> More specifically , the aspect of this broad narrative relating to the inherent illegality of Jewish presence in Judea and Samaria implies a certain view of the history of the past century . One could even say that this narrative requires a sort of Orwellian rewriting of the past , to erase key moments that fit uneasily with such a narrative . <p> Indeed , it requires a rewriting of the recognition of a Jewish right to self-determination that followed the Balfour Declaration of 1917 . It ignores the conditions under which Judea and Samaria , as well as Gaza , were occupied respectively by Jordan and Egypt from 1947 to 1967 . It ignores the circumstances of the 1967 Six Day War when Israel took control of this territory in a defensive war . It ignores the negotiated terms of the Oslo Agreements in relation to the distribution of authority in Judea and Samaria and the lack of final status of both borders and territories . <p> The wide-sweeping argument of illegality per se also ignores the diverse nature of each individual presence in these territories , in terms of where it is , how it came into existence , what legal regime applies to it , etc . <p> As in a courtroom , the issue comes down to the identification of competing narratives before the international community acting as a judge . Each side is therefore faced with the choice of which narrative to choose from . Some narratives can be reconciled . Others can not . <p> The fact remains that the position that settlements are illegal as such serves a war-like narrative that denies any legitimacy to Jewish presence on the entire territory of Israel , as exemplified by numerous declarations , including a recent declaration by a Fatah official that Palestinian people will not relinquish a grain of soil from the land of historical Palestine from the Mediterranean Sea to the Jordan River . <p> The December 20 announcement by the ICC prosecutor that she is ready to open a formal investigation with settlement-related activities at its core will undoubtedly be seen as a first narrative victory for those challenging Jewish presence in Israel . This can only be countered if another narrative is presented , not just in public discourse , but at the ICC itself , which provides genuine procedural opportunities for participation in the judicial debate , as we noted in an editorial last September . <p> Emmanuel Altit is lead counsel and Jennifer Naouri is counsel at the ICC . Dr. Dov Jacobs is an international criminal law professor and trial lawyer at the ICC . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@82471918 <h> Hamas leader travels to Egypt , first time since February <p> Updated 2:38 pm EST , Monday , December 2 , 2019 <p> GAZA CITY , Gaza Strip ( AP ) -- The Palestinian militant group Hamas says its leader is visiting Egypt for the first time since February , in a potential sign of stepped-up efforts to shore up a Gaza cease-fire . <p> The Islamic militant group ruling Gaza said on Monday that its politburo chief Ismail Haniyeh would meet Egyptian officials . It did n't elaborate . <p> An informal cease-fire brokered by Egypt has prevented major fighting between Israel and Hamas for months . Hamas kept to the sidelines last month during clashes between Israel and Gaza 's smaller and more radical Islamic Jihad militant faction . <p> Israel and Hamas have fought three wars and have clashed on numerous occasions since the group seized power in Gaza from rival Palestinian forces in 2007. 
@@82487419 <h> News Link <h> Ireland Announces $9.7Mln Funding for Gaza Solar Power Plant <p> MOSCOW ( Sputnik ) - Irish Minister for Foreign Affairs announced these plans in a press release published on the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and Trade website . The deal was announced as Coveney visited the North Gaza Wastewater Treatment Plant ( NGEST ) .... <h> Get Published - Build a Following <p> The Energy Central Power Industry Network is based on one core idea - power industry professionals helping each other and advancing the industry by sharing and learning from each other . <p> If you have an experience or insight to share or have learned something from a conference or seminar , your peers and colleagues on Energy Central want to hear about it . It 's also easy to share a link to an article you 've liked or an industry resource that you think would be helpful . <h> Sponsors &amp; Partners <p> Our Mission <p> Our mission at Energy Central is to help global power industry professionals work better . Our Power Industry Network ? platform is built to help our members connect with each other , share their knowledge &amp; experience and advance their careers in the industry . Membershipis open to professionals working at utilities and organizations supporting the industry . 
@@82531616 <p> Here 's the latest for Monday December 30th : U.S. announces military strikes in Iraq and Syria ; North Korea 's Kim Jong Un calls for unspecified offensive ; Police : Armed parishioners kill Texas church gunman ; New York stabbing suspect pleads not guilty . <p> A man accused of attacking a Hannukah celebration in New York state pleaded not guilty to five counts of attempted murder and one count of burglary . Grafton E. Thomas was arrested within two hours of the attack . ( Dec. 30 ) <p> Japan has revised a roadmap for the tsunami-wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant cleanup , further delaying the removal of thousands of spent fuel units that remain in cooling pools since the 2011 disaster . ( Dec. 27 ) <p> Israel 's prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu was rushed off the stage of an election rally on Wednesday after sirens rang out , warning of a rocket attack from the Gaza Strip . Authorities confirmed that a defensive missile intercepted the rocket . ( Dec. 26 ) <p> Three adults were killed in an apparent murder-suicide on Christmas Eve while four young children were inside the home , authorities in Lakeland , Florida said . The children were safely removed from the home . ( Dec. 25 ) 
@@82540612 <h> News of the Day From Around the World , Dec. 6 <p> Chronicle News Services <p> Updated 5:52 pm CST , Friday , December 6 , 2019 <p> Image 1of/1 <p> Caption <p> Close <p> Image 1 of 1 <p> News of the Day From Around the World , Dec. 6 <p> 1 / 1 <p> Back to Gallery <p> 1Iraq deaths : Officials say 15 people have been killed in Baghdad 's Khilani Square after unknown assailants fired live ammunition from cars . Security and medical officials say at least two of the dead were policemen . Protesters fearing for their lives ran from the plaza to nearby Tahrir Square and mosques to take cover . Protesters are occupying part of Jumhuriya , Sinak and Ahar bridges in a standoff with security forces . At least 400 people have died since the leaderless uprising shook Iraq on Oct. 1 , with thousands of Iraqis taking to the streets in Baghdad and the predominantly Shiite southern Iraq decrying corruption , poor services , lack of jobs and calling for an end to the political system that was imposed after the 2003 U.S. invasion . <p> 2 Slovakia explosion : A gas explosion in an apartment building in eastern Slovakia killed at least five people and injured more than 40 Friday . Firefighters rescued people trapped in the building . The explosion occurred toward the top of the 12-story building in the city of Presov shortly after noon . By late afternoon , the entire top half of the building was burning and the top three floors were destroyed . <p> 3Blogger banned : A Russian court gave a political science student a three-year suspended sentence Friday and barred him from managing websites for two years , for publishing videos in which he criticized the government of President Vladimir Putin . Since his arrest in August , Yegor Zhukov , 21 , a student at Moscow 's prestigious Higher School of Economics , has become a symbol of a wave of anti-Kremlin protests that rocked the Russian capital last summer . His videos called upon viewers to use all possible means to depose Putin , whom he called a " dictator and a tyrant . " The prosecution highlighted the escalating effort by the Kremlin , which already exercised firm control over nearly all traditional news sources , to clamp down on independent media online . <p> 4Gaza protest : Thousands of Palestinians demonstrated along the Gaza-Israel frontier Friday as the territory 's Hamas rulers resumed the regular protests after a three-week pause . The renewed weekly protests came as leaders from Hamas and the smaller but more radical Islamic Jihad were in Cairo , talking with Egyptian mediators about cementing a cease-fire with Israel that is expected to ease Gaza 's 12-year-old blockade . Organizers of the marches kept them restrained Friday , with no burning tires or firebombs , and with only a few protesters approaching the fortified perimeter fence and hurling stones at Israeli troops with slingshots . <p> 5 Building collapse : A six-story residential building collapsed Friday in Kenya 's capital of Nairobi , officials said , with at least four people killed and others trapped in the debris . The scene was all too familiar in a city where an audit once found more than half of buildings unsafe for habitation . It was not immediately clear what caused the collapse . Building collapses are common in Nairobi , where housing is in high demand and unscrupulous developers often bypass regulations . <p> 6Auschwitz visit : German Chancellor Angela Merkel voiced a feeling of " deep shame " during her first visit on Friday to the former Nazi German death camp in Poland of Auschwitz-Birkenau , where Adolf Hitler 's regime murdered more than a million people . Merkel vowed that Germany would not tolerate anti-Semitism . 
@@82543716 <h> Palestinians resume weekly Gaza border protests <p> A Palestinian protester throws back a tear gas canister fired by Israeli forces during clashes following a demonstration along the border with Israel east of Rafah in the southern Gaza Strip on Friday . Photo by Ismael Mohamad/UPI License Photo <p> Dec. 6 ( UPI ) -- Dozens of Palestinians sustained injuries Friday during protests at the Gaza border after a three-week pause in the weekly demonstrations , the Gaza Health Ministry said . <p> The Jerusalem Post reported about 4,000 Palestinians participated in the protests along the border fence , with some riots . <p> Some protesters threw explosives at Israel Defense Forces , who responded with live and rubber bullets , Arutz Sheva reported . <p> Thirty-seven people sustained injuries , including four hit by live ammunition . A paramedic and 10 children were among the injured . <p> The demonstrators were taking part in weekly Friday protests at locations along the border . The demonstrations , named the Great March of Return , call for the return of refugees to their homes and lands from which they were displaced in 1948. 
@@82551116 <h> The president spoke at the Israeli-American Council annual event . This was Trump 's first time speaking for a non-political Jewish organization . <p> US President Donald Trump speaks at the Israeli-American Council 2019 Summit . <p> ( photo credit : ISRAEL-AMERICAN COUNCIL ) <p> Some American Jews " do n't love Israel enough , " US President Donald Trump said to a crowd of around 4,000 people in southern Florida on Saturday night at the Israeli-American Council 's ( IAC ) annual event , a comment reminiscent of previous remarks made by the president . " I think any Jewish people that vote for a Democrat , I think it shows either a total lack of knowledge or great disloyalty , " Trump told reporters in April . <p> The president used his talk at the IAC , his first-ever speech for a non-political Jewish organization , to attack his predecessor , Barack Obama , put down the Democratic Party and praise his efforts for the Jewish state . <p> " So many of you voted for people in the last administration , " Trump said to a welcome of loud chants of " four more years . " <p> " Someday you 'll have to explain that to me because I do n't think they liked Israel too much , I 'm sorry , " he continued . " After eight years of which our alliance was undermined and neglected , I am happy to report the United States-Israeli relationship is stronger now than ever before ... The Jewish state has never had a better friend in office than your president . " <p> He noted that he finds recent acts by the radical Left to be " unacceptable . " <p> Trump told the crowd that he is in shock when he sees Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi " being pushed around " by the more radical members of her party . " It is unbelievable , " he said . <p> He reminded attendees of the resolution introduced earlier this year by Democratic Congresswoman Ilhan Omar , championing " the right to participate in boycotts in pursuit of civil and human rights . " <p> He said the resolution equated supporting the Boycott , Divestment and Sanctions ( BDS ) movement with boycotting the evil perpetrated by the Nazi regime during World War II . <p> Though Trump did not mention Omar by name , he recalled her comment last February that " supporting Israel is all about the Benjamins . " <p> " This could not have happened 10 years ago , " he continued . " Radical lawmakers who support the BDS movement are advancing anti-Israel and antisemitic " legislation . <p> The president said he would do what he could to stop the sprawl of antisemitism across the United States . <p> He also commented on Democratic presidential hopeful Elizabeth Warren : " You 're not going to vote for Pocahontas , I 'll tell you that . You 're not going to vote for the wealth tax . <p> " Let 's take 100% of your wealth away , " he mocked , referring to Warren 's tax policy . " No , no . Even if you do n't like me -- and some of you do n't , some of you I do n't like at all actually -- and you 're going to be my biggest supporters because you 'll be out of business in about 15 minutes . " <p> He did not mention the state of Israeli politics during his address . <p> Instead , the president spent most of his speech praising his own administration and the support it has provided for the State of Israel . <p> " International law does not prohibit settlements in the West Bank , " he said , touting the recent announcement by Secretary of State Mike Pompeo that " the establishment of Israeli civilian settlements in the West Bank is not , per se , inconsistent with international law . " The announcement undid the Obama-era stance . <p> He said , for example , that he kept his promise and moved the US Embassy to Jerusalem . <p> Trump said that he wanted to do " what no president has done ... They never did it , because when they thought I was going to do it , I started getting calls from everyone . I got calls from presidents and prime ministers , ' Do n't do it ! Do n't do it , please . It will be terrible if you do it . " <p> He recalled how some countries that " you never even heard of before " were calling him as the 2018 embassy move grew closer . Eventually , he said , he stopped taking their calls and told leaders he would get back to them soon , after the move was formally announced . He noted that he was warned of " massive violence , " but massive violence never came . <p> " CNN had the cameras very low , pointing to the sky , " the president said , explaining that the news outlet tried to make it look more violent than it really was . " It was fake news , as usual . " <p> The president greeted special adviser Jared Kushner and said his son-in-law wants to make peace , adding that he was told that a peace deal between Israel and the Palestinians is the toughest thing . <p> " If Jared Kushner ca n't do it , it ca n't be done , " he said . <p> Trump likewise praised his administration 's recognition of the Golan Heights . <p> " For 52 years , people would have summits over the Golan Heights , " Trump said . " Fifty-two years and then , ' bing , ' and it was done . " <p> He also voiced strong support for releasing the Israelis who are held in Hamas captivity . <p> The president recognized Rachelle Fraenkel and Bat Galim Shaer , who were in attendance at the event , the mothers of Naftali Fraenkel and Gil-Ad Shaer , who were murdered in 2014 , leading up to the war in Gaza that summer . He also mentioned his decision to sign the Taylor Force Act into law , which intends to put a stop to American economic aid to the Palestinian Authority until they cease funding terrorism . <p> Then , the president turned to Iran . He said , " We must never allow a regime that chants ' death to America ' or ' death to Israel ' to obtain a nuclear weapon . " <p> Trump said that the Iranian regime espouses the " most heinous antisemitism , " recalling how Iran 's President Hassan Rouhani called Israel a malignant cancer that must be removed and eradicated from the face of the Earth . However , he noted that " America will always stand with the Iranian people and their righteous struggle for freedom . " <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@82561222 <p> Yolanda Gooch is a restorative justice teacher and the director of Hoover High School 's Social Justice Academy , an in-school program that empowers students to advocate for ongoing positive change in themselves and their communities <p> Thousands of koalas are feared to have died in a wildfire-ravaged area north of Sydney , further diminishing Australia 's iconic marsupial , while the fire danger increased in the country 's east as temperatures soared <h> Israeli aircraft strike Hamas sites in Gaza after 3 rockets <p> Israeli aircraft bombed several militants ' sites in Gaza early Sunday , hours after three rockets were fired from the Palestinian enclave toward southern Israel . <p> The military said in a statement the airstrikes targeted military camps and a naval base for Hamas , the Islamic militant group controlling Gaza . There were no immediate reports of casualties . <p> On Saturday evening , Israel announced that its air defenses , known as " Iron Dome , " intercepted two of three missiles coming from Gaza . Later , it said all three rockets had been shot down . <p> No Palestinian group claimed responsibility for the rocket fire . The Israeli army said Hamas was responsible for any attack transpiring in Gaza . <p> Advertisement <p> Cross-border violence between Israel and Palestinian militants in Gaza has ebbed and flowed in recent years . Last month , the two sides fought their worst round of violence in months . <p> Leaders from Hamas and the smaller but more radical Islamic Jihad are in Cairo , talking with Egyptian officials about cementing a cease-fire that would see some economic incentives and easing of restrictions on Gaza . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu warned at his weekly Cabinet meeting Sunday that no steps would be made toward any form of cease-fire as long as rocket fire continued . He said last month 's onslaught , in which 34 Palestinians were killed , including a top militant commander , would be just a " promo " to what came next if aggression from Gaza continued . <p> Hamas has fought three wars with Israel since seizing Gaza in 2007 and dozens of shorter skirmishes . 
@@82637313 <p> TEL AVIV -- Israel will hold a third election in less than a year after lawmakers missed a deadline to find a consensus candidate to form a government , prolonging months of political stalemate at a time when the country faces threats ranging from Iran to militants in Gaza to an uncertain economy . <p> The third election , to be held in March after no party was able to form a government following inconclusive votes in April and September , provides a lifeline for the country 's right-wing Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , the country 's longest-serving leader . He is now better placed to fight corruption charges while in office at least until the next election . <p> Mr. Netanyahu was indicted on corruption charges last month on allegations he accepted hundreds of thousands of dollars in champagne and cigars and favorable media coverage in exchange for favors for wealthy supporters . Mr. Netanyahu denies any wrongdoing . As premier , parliament is more likely to grant him immunity if , as expected , he seeks it . <p> His Likud party is expected to hold a primary leadership contest on Dec. 26 , and Mr. Netanyahu faces a challenge from popular rival Gideon Saar , a former interior minister . Mr. Netanyahu remains popular among the party 's rank-and-file and it is n't clear whether Mr. Saar can defeat him . <p> However , achieving a breakthrough at the next election may be difficult , given Israel 's fractious political system . Whoever wins the most seats has to try to cobble together a coalition with smaller parties . Mr. Netanyahu failed to gain enough support in the 120-seat parliament , called the Knesset , in April and September . His rival Benny Gantz , a former military chief and head of the centrist Blue and White party , also failed last month . <p> The third vote happened after the heads of both of the largest parties and the parliament exhausted all the possible avenues to try to form a government . It will be the first time Israel holds three elections within a year . Early polls indicate that neither side will build enough support to form a government , suggesting a continued deadlock . <p> Mr. Netanyahu risks losing support . A poll released Tuesday by Israeli television 's Channel 13 showed that Mr. Gantz 's Blue and White would get 37 seats to Likud 's 33 . The center-left coalition , led by Mr. Gantz , would get 60 seats , only one seat short of a 61-seat majority , while Mr. Netanyahu 's right-wing and religious bloc would be nine seats short of a majority , according to Channel 13 . The poll also found that Mr. Saar would bring three more seats to the right-wing coalition than if Mr. Netanyahu was leading the Likud party . <h> SHARE YOUR THOUGHTS <p> What concerns would you have if Israel fails to form a government after a third election ? Join the conversation below . <p> Likud and Blue and White agree on most security and other policy issues , but they are divided on whether Mr. Netanyahu should continue serving as prime minister after his indictment and over his growing reliance on Israel 's religious parties . <p> Avigdor Lieberman , head of the secular Yisrael Beiteinu party that controls a pivotal eight seats in the Knesset , refused to join a Netanyahu government in April over the matter , but has also refused to support Mr. Gantz . He wants a unity government of Blue and White and Likud , the two largest parties , to resolve the stalemate . <p> The impasse comes at a delicate time for Israel . Its security officials are increasingly concerned about Iran , which has begun to violate the terms of a 2015 agreement to limit its nuclear program . Officials also say Tehran has tried to entrench itself militarily and arm its allies across the Middle East , from Iraq to Israel 's borders with Syria and Lebanon . <p> Israel has responded with air strikes against targets in Syria , recently expanded to Iraq and Lebanon . Tehran says its presence in Syria is meant to defend against any attacks on Iran . <p> Meanwhile , Israeli officials are pursuing a long-term truce with Hamas , the militant group that governs Gaza , after several bouts of fighting over the past year . Without a new government in place , Israel will have less scope to reach an accord or launch a larger military operation , political analysts and former officials warn . <p> A third election also holds risks for the Trump administration 's peace plan for the region , and may sideline it altogether . U.S. officials say they still hope to present the initiative , but it will likely have to wait until Israel has a new government with a fresh mandate . The effort , however , could be distracted by the 2020 U.S. presidential campaign . <p> Another election campaign is potentially perilous for the economy . Without a sitting parliament , the government ca n't pass a new budget for 2020 at a time when Israel is trying to address a growing deficit and to boost productivity , which has sagged in recent years . Israel 's ministries may also have to freeze some spending to tamp down the worsening shortfall . <p> " One of the weaknesses we have , which affects our productivity growth and growth in general , is an insufficient investment in infrastructure , " said Karnit Flug , a former governor of the Bank of Israel now with the Israel Democracy Institute , a Jerusalem think tank . 
@@82764020 <h> IDF attacks Hamas weapons production site following rocket fire from Gaza <h> The IDF was retaliating for a rocket fired by Hamas toward Israel overnight Wednesday . The rocket was intercepted by Israel 's Iron Dome . <p> By JERUSALEM POST STAFF <p> DECEMBER 19 , 2019 17:39 <p> An Israeli rocket is fired into the northern Gaza Strip July 17 , 2014 . <p> ( photo credit : REUTERS ) <p> Several Palestinians were lightly injured after IDF fighter jets attacked a Hamas weapons production site in the northern Gaza Strip on Thursday , according to Palestinian media . <p> The Qatari envoy to Gaza , Muhammad al-Emadi , was staying in the hotel next to the site of the attack , according to the Jerusalem-based Arabic-language daily Al-Quds . Al-Emadi arrived to the Gaza Strip on Tuesday . <p> In addition , the Gaza fishing zone was reduced to 10 nautical miles on Thursday , the Coordinator of Government Activities in the Territories ( COGAT ) , Maj.-Gen . Kamil Abu Rukun , announced . <p> The IAF fire and the reduction of the fishing zone came in response to a rocket fired from Gaza toward Israel overnight on Wednesday . The rocket was intercepted by the Iron Dome . Two people were injured during the rocket fire . One is in a state of shock from the alarm and the other was lightly injured while running to shelter . They were treated at the Barzilai Medical Center in Ashkelon . <p> The IDF Spokespersons Unit stressed that Israel holds Hamas responsible for all actions in and from the Gaza Strip , and that the terrorist group will suffer the consequences of any action against Israeli citizens . <p> " I think we know fairly well how to analyze who 's behind things and to act accordingly , " Deputy Defense Minister Avi Dichter told KAN news on Thursday . " All the tools are n't taken out in every situation . The agreement between Hamas and Israel is a tactical issue that connects our interests and Hamas 's interests , not in order to solve the root issue in Gaza . " <p> MK Yair Lapid of Blue and White responded on his twitter account to the Wednesday night 's Gaza rocket fire , saying : " It 's an alarming failure on every level . " <p> " The lack of any sort of policy regarding Gaza , meager responses and empty words about a cease fire , an agreement , containment and occasional leniency again and again bring the citizens of the Gaza border communities to an unfathomable situation . There are no magic solutions , but there 's lots to do . For that one needs a good and functional government . Deterrence is brought back by force . " Lapid wrote . <p> This latest round of rocket fire and retaliation comes after last month 's escalation , which followed the assassination of Palestinian Islamic Jihad leader Baha Abu al-Ata on November 12 . <p> Also on Wednesday night , the IAF opened fire at an armed terrorist who approached the border in the southern Gaza Strip , near Khan Yunis . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@82828223 <h> Related : <p> Europe 's largest menorah will light up an Israeli community this year that is frequently targeted by Palestinian rocket attacks . <p> This year , a Dutch Christian group donated Europe 's largest menorah to the southern Israeli city of Sderot , whose residents are frequently targeted by Palestinian terrorists shooting rockets at the Jewish state . <p> As a show of solidarity with Israelis living in close proximity to the Gaza border , the Dutch group donated the massive Chanukah decoration to the people of Sderot . <p> Let 's pray that no Israelis experience rocket fire during the eight-day Chanukah holiday this year . <h> Keep Israeli Soldiers Warm this Winter - Send Care Packages ! <p> We are honored to thank the young men and women of the IDF who risk their lives every day to defend the citizens of Israel . <p> Join us in sending winter care packages and personal notes of support to Israeli soldiers who are out in the cold all day . 
@@82835422 <p> JERUSALEM ( AP ) -- Israel announced on Sunday that it will allow Christians in the Gaza Strip to travel to Jerusalem and the West Bank for Christmas . <p> Until its notice just two days before the holiday , it was unclear whether Israel would grant permits to members of Gaza 's tiny Christian community to leave the Hamas-ruled coastal territory . <p> COGAT , the Israeli defense body responsible for Palestinian civil affairs , said the permits would be issued " in accordance with security assessments and without regard to age . " <p> COGAT had earlier said that Israel had not yet decided whether to issue the permits en masse and was considering individual permit requests . COGAT said it also was allowing 100 Christians from Gaza to travel abroad . <p> In previous years , Israel has granted travel permits to large numbers of Gaza Christians to visit religious sites and spend time with family in Israel and the West Bank . <p> About 1,000 Christians live in Gaza , a tiny fraction of the territory 's 2 million people . Most are Greek Orthodox , with Catholics making up about a quarter of the small community . <p> While the ruling Islamic militant Hamas movement considers the Christians a protected minority , they have been targeted over the years by Islamic zealots . The Christian community has greatly dwindled since Hamas took power in 2007 , with large numbers emigrating to flee conflict and difficult living conditions . <p> Israel and Egypt have maintained a tight blockade over Gaza since the Hamas takeover . Residents require permits to leave the territory . 
@@82885119 <h> WATCH : UN Ambassadors Witness Terror Tunnel and Iron Dome ! <h> WATCH : UN Ambassadors Witness Terror Tunnel and Iron Dome ! <h> Related : <p> Israel 's envoy to the UN Danny Danon recently took a delegation of fellow ambassadors to the Gaza border , to see Hamas ' terror infrastructure first hand . <p> UN ambassadors from around the world visited the Gaza belt with Israeli envoy Danny Danon . He showed them an actual Hamas terror tunnel discovered by the IDF before it could be used to harm Israeli civilians . Watch this INCREDIBLE diplomatic achievement for Israel ! <p> The delegation included ambassadors from Guatemala , Paraguay , Poland , Ethiopia , Romania , Ukraine , Estonia , and the Czech Republic , among other nations . Danon also brought the UN delegation to an Iron Dome battery in Netivot . <p> While the UN consistently pursues an anti-Israel agenda , ambassadors from member states are not afraid to confront the truth about Palestinian terror , which threatens Israelis on a daily basis . <h> Keep Israeli Soldiers Warm this Winter - Send Care Packages ! <p> We are honored to thank the young men and women of the IDF who risk their lives every day to defend the citizens of Israel . <p> Join us in sending winter care packages and personal notes of support to Israeli soldiers who are out in the cold all day . 
@@82887314 <h> When the rocket sirens were sounded , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was speaking in Askelon and was rushed off stage . A similar incident occurred in Ashdod in September . <p> Palestinians check the site of an Israeli air strike in the southern Gaza Strip December 26 , 2019 <p> ( photo credit : REUTERS/IBRAHEEM ABU MUSTAFA ) <p> IDF fighter jets and helicopters attacked several Hamas terror targets in the Gaza Strip , including the organization 's military complexes , the IDF Spokesperson 's Unit said on Thursday . The attack was in response to rocket fire from Gaza at Israel on Wednesday night . Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was holding an event in Ashkelon as the rocket sirens went off . <p> The IDF stressed that " Hamas is responsible for everything occurring in and out of the Gaza Strip and it will bear the consequences for actions against Israeli citizens . " <p> On Wednesday evening , one rocket was fired into Israel and successfully intercepted by the Iron Dome system causing rocket sirens to blast in Ashkelon and areas north of the city . <p> Netanyahu was taken off stage to a shelter as the sirens were sounded and Culture Minister Miri Regev took the stage in his place . Multiple other Likud officials who were at the event were not brought to a shelter . Netanyahu returned to the stage shortly afterwards . <p> A similar incident happened in Ashdod in September when rocket sirens went off as Netanyahu held a campaign event in the city during a rocket onslaught . <p> In both incidents , live videos on Facebook showed him being interrupted and led off stage . <p> Gazan reports indicated that Palestinian Islamic Jihad ( PIJ ) leader Khalil Bathani is the one behind the rocket fire on Wednesday night , according to Channel 12 . The rocket fire in September was ordered by former PIJ official Baha Abu Al Ata , who was assassinated in November . <p> " The person that shot at us before is no longer with us . Whoever shot at us now should pack up his belongings , " said Netanyahu after he returned to the stage on Wednesday . The prime minister continued and spoke about the strength of the State of Israel and the need for faith . <p> " Again Labor party leader Amir Peretz 's Iron Dome saved Netanyahu . The truth needs to be said . Without the Iron Dome that protects the Israeli home front , Netanyahu would already not be prime minister , " said the Labor-Gesher party in response to the attack . <p> Hamas spokesman Fawzi Barhoum stated that the " Israeli occupation bears full responsibility for the continuation of the escalation in Gaza . " Barhoum added that Israel was exporting its internal crises to the Gaza Strip and stressed that Hamas and the other terrorist groups would continue defending the people of Gaza , " whatever the sacrifices . " <p> Foreign Minister Israel Katz told Army Radio on Thursday that Israel has returned to the policy of targeted assassinations . " Even now there are intelligence efforts being carried out to find out if there is a new official who has taken it upon himself to fire rockets at Israel , and he will be assassinated , " said Katz . <p> " The situation in which the citizens of Israel are given to the grace of terrorists and the prime minister of the Israeli government ca n't tour part of his country is a badge of shame for the security policies in the south and the loss of deterrence that no sovereign state can allow , " tweeted Blue and White leader Benny Gantz on Wednesday night . " We will flip the government , change the policies and return the deterrence and quiet to the residents of the south . " <p> " There will be a large , complex military operation in Gaza sooner or later , " said Minister of Science and Technology Ofir Akunis to Kan Reshet Bet on Thursday . " We are putting our hand out for peace and in place receive at one point suicide terrorists , at another knives , at another one massacre or another . With terrorist organizations , we need to speak in their language : first of all to land a strong blow that they will not recover from for many years . " <p> " I suggest looking at the precedent of former PIJ official Baha Abu Al Ata : he will not stand alone . In our evaluation , Hamas in this case is not the one who shot the rocket . There is no solution to Gaza except for deterrence that needs reinforcement and refreshment , " said Justice Minister Amir Ohana to Kan Reshet Bet on Thursday . <p> " We ca n't say we do n't want to deal with Gaza right now because we need to prepare for a conflict with Iran , " said MK Yair Golan to Kan Reshet Bet . " They thought this way during the first and second intifadas concerning Syria , and we were hit on the head . We need to act in Gaza in the economic and infrastructure sectors and to arrive at a real agreement . " <p> Yisrael Beiteinu leader Avigdor Liberman said on Wednesday that this is the " second time this year that Gaza terror activists humiliate the state of Israel , " He also said that , for the second time , the prime minister " fled to a protected shelter . " <p> Liberman said that " what we have is a surrender to terror , and no new-speak can change the reality we all find ourselves in . " <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@82890013 <h> Tourists Mean Hope for Palestine <p> Palestine is blessed with many special holy places , and the tourism they attract is a hugely important economic resource and vital instrument for preserving Palestinian culture . But unprecedented obstacles erected by Israel threaten Palestine 's efforts to develop the sector . <p> BETHLEHEM -- At this time of year , billions of people around the world turn their gaze to Palestine , the birthplace of Jesus Christ . Palestine is blessed with many holy places and relies heavily on religious tourism , not only as a source of economic and cultural capital , but also as an important part of its struggle for liberty and a vital instrument in preserving Palestinian culture and heritage . But , even though Palestine passed the three-million tourist mark in 2019 , and that record is expected to be broken again this coming year , unprecedented obstructions , from Israeli settlement building to onerous travel restrictions , threaten to derail this progress . <p> Palestine 's religious landmarks attract increasing numbers of religious tourists from all over the world each year . In addition to Bethlehem 's Church of the Nativity , Palestine is home to the Church of the Holy Sepulcher and Al-Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem , as well as the Ibrahimi Mosque in nearby Hebron . <p> Already , hotel reservations for 2020 signal even bigger numbers of tourists than we have seen before , which would be recognition of all the hard work that has been done in this crucial area . The government of Palestine has been taking steps to augment the traditional religious pilgrimages with new forms of tourism , including environmental and alternative tourism to marginalized areas , especially those communities threatened by Israel 's settlement program and the building of the wall in the West Bank . Palestinians in those frontline locations cherish the politically minded tourists who come to show support and solidarity . <p> With the finalization of the renovation of Hisham 's Palace in Jericho , our cultural tourism is expected to see a boost from people looking to gaze upon one of the world 's largest mosaics covering an area of 827 square meters . This year also marked the removal of the Church of the Nativity and the pilgrimage road from UNESCO 's list of endangered sites . This followed the conclusion of the renovation of the Church of the Nativity that has taken more than five years to complete . President Mahmoud Abbas 's efforts alongside Pope Francis to return a remnant of the 2,000-year-old crib to the Church of the Nativity will no doubt be another big draw for local and foreign tourists . <p> The growth in the number of tourists coming to Palestine is inevitably putting pressure on our many heritage sites . Pilgrims visiting the Church of the Nativity have had to wait more than three hours for access to the Nativity Grotto . This has prompted us to step up efforts to coordinate with all the relevant church and civil institutions to extend the opening hours and make visiting easier . An unprecedented extension of three hours has been agreed to , while we have also instituted an electronic reservation system to allow tour companies to reserve visitation times so as to lower waiting times and allow tourists to engage not only with the Christian historical sites , but the living sites of the many Christians and Muslims who reside side-by-side in Bethlehem and the other Palestinian towns . <p> But while every effort is being made to ease travel to the holy places , the Israeli authorities continue to restrict the movement of Palestinians . This year , the small Christian population in Gaza has been partly barred from visiting Bethlehem . And residents of Bethlehem itself are unable to visit nearby Jerusalem unless they obtain the often hard-to-get Israeli permit . <h> Subscribe now <h> Subscribe today and get unlimited access to OnPoint , the Big Picture , the PS archive of more than 14,000 commentaries , and our annual magazine , for less than $2 a week . <p> SUBSCRIBE <p> Meanwhile , Israeli settlements encircle Bethlehem and have stunted any chance of development and growth of the city and its surrounding district . Currently , there are 22 illegal Israeli settlements established on Bethlehem land . And in the district of Bethlehem , Israel has confiscated around 22,000 dunums of land ( about 22 square kilometers ) , effectively turning the town into an open-air prison . <p> Very close to Bethlehem 's church is the town of Beit Sahour , which literally translates as " those watching at night " -- a reference to the biblical field where , the Bible tells us , shepherds were guarding their flocks when the angels descended from heaven to herald the miraculous virgin birth and bring a message of hope and peace . Today , more than ever , we Palestinians yearn for the fulfillment of that message , which began with the soothing words , " Do not be afraid . I bring you good news that will cause great joy for all the people , " and concluded with the universally repeated call that has been memorialized in Christmas carols sung around the world : " Glory to God in the highest , and on earth peace . " <p> With Christmas wishes from Bethlehem , we repeat this call to the entire world , praying that the arrival of more tourists to our beautiful land will help bring peace to this part of the earth . <p> Clearly Bethlehem ( meaning the House of Bread in Hebrew ) is a splendid place to go , particularly if you are Christian .... but clearly only if you are a foreign ( not an Arab Christian ) .... since the " local " Christians , who used to be a huge majority in this town , have , since the PA has " taken responsibility " for their welfare , found it necessary to flee en mass to other places where they are less discriminated against , less constrained , and less scared for their lives and livelihoods ... <h> New Comment <p> It appears that you have not yet updated your first and last name . If you would like to update your name , please do so here . <p> Pin comment to this paragraph <p> After posting your comment , you 'll have a ten-minute window to make any edits . Please note that we moderate comments to ensure the conversation remains topically relevant . We appreciate well-informed comments and welcome your criticism and insight . Please be civil and avoid name-calling and ad hominem remarks . <p> In the 1980s and 1990s , people were acutely aware of inflationary risks , whereas economic actors today may be setting their expectations based on a different set of considerations . Given the powerful role of expectations in determining economic outcomes , this could be enough to alter the functioning of the business cycle . <p> Like an overprotective parent , China 's central government needs to learn to let go . While a more relaxed approach to economic management carries some short-term risks , it is essential to future growth and prosperity . 
@@82977119 <h> The shipment of Krembo , a chocolate-covered marshmallow and cookie , was produced in Gaza and was the first export of processed food from Gaza since 2007 . <p> A shipment of Krembo , one of Israel 's favorite snacks , made its way from the Gaza Strip on Monday on its way to Bahrain . <p> The shipment of Krembo , a chocolate-covered marshmallow and cookie , was produced in Gaza and became the first export of processed food from Gaza since 2007 when it went through the Kerem Shalom crossing on Monday , according to Gal Berger of KAN News . <p> Eight tons of the treats will make their way through Israel to Jordan and eventually to Bahrain in a shipment coordinated by the Coordination of Government Activities in the Territories ' ( COGAT ) Coordination and Liaison Administration ( CLA ) for Gaza . <p> Right now , a shipment of Krembo , a chocolate-covered marshmallow treat , is being exported from #Gaza for the first time . This is an exciting step in the exportation of processed food from Gaza , which has n't happened since 2007 . COGAT 's Gaza CLA assisted in coordinating the export **26;1189;TOOLONG <p> Over 450 tons of strawberries have been exported from the Gaza Strip to various locations around the world since the beginning of the season , including the UAE , England and Israel . <p> According to a report published by the Gaza Ministry of Economy , the Gaza Strip imports almost everything it consumes , paying some $3 billion in customs tariffs per year . <p> The Kerem Shalom border crossing is the only place commercial vehicles are allowed access to and from Gaza . More than 1,000 trucks pass through the crossing every day ( not counting fuel tankers ) . Prior to 2010 , when Israel eased limitations at the Kerem Shalom crossing , only 150 trucks a day were allowed to enter . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
