@@51269026 <h> Palestine : The Human Race , Animal Race and Rat Race , By Owei Lakemfa <p> Nabil Suleiman stood before the Nigerian audience . His speech was quite short . It did not matter because his being told the story of pain . Apparently , he has done well for himself but it is an inner fulfillment he seemed to crave and an end to the suffering of his people , the Palestinians . It was at the 2019 Human Rights Day this Wednesday , December 10 . He told the audience at the University of Lagos : " I have been in Nigeria for more than twenty years . I am proud to be a Nigerian , and I am proud to be a Palestinian . My father left Palestine in 1948 when he was five . I was born in Lebanon ; I have never been to Palestine . " <p> His story is typical of five million Palestinians who are refugees in various parts of the world because Israel refuses them the right to return home contrary to international law and the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights which states that " Everyone has the right to leave any country , including his own , and to return to his country . " Israel which is occupying the Palestinian territories including Gaza and the West Bank refuses to allow Mr. Suleiman 's family return home , and is refusing him and his children , the right to even see their homeland . <p> It is for people like the Suleiman family , world peace and social justice that eight Nigerian human rights and civil society groups held a joint international symposium on " The Inalienable Rights Of Palestinians To Statehood " <p> Alhaji Hassan Adebayo Sunmonu , 79 , founding President of the Nigeria Labour Congress ( NLC ) and former Secretary General of the Organisation of African Trade Union Unity ( OATUU ) is one of few Africans who met and interacted with Yasser Arafat , the legendary Palestinian leader who dedicated his life for the liberation of his people . As chairperson of the occasion , he said the Palestinian cause is just and is backed by international conventions and laws , but that these have not been effected because : " In international relations , the application of international laws , is also a question of power play " The United Nations ( UN ) he said , has been powerless to call Israel to order because a single country amongst the five Permanent members of the UN Security Council ( United States , Britain , France , China and Russia ) can veto the decision of all other members of the world body . He argued that the Jewish lobby and media in America is so powerful that it is virtually impossible for any American administration to oppose Israeli actions no matter how outrageous . <p> In my paper , I argued that the 2019 International Human Rights Day , starkly reminds us that the human race should be superior and live better lives than the animal race , and avoid the rat race . <p> I said in this age , when many take basic human rights for granted , in the case of the Palestinians , Israel violates ALL the 30 Articles of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights passed 71 years ago . This includes building physical and mental walls , mass imprisonment , discrimination , torture , cruel , inhuman and degrading treatment , arbitrary arrest , detention and exile . <p> I pointed out four ironies about the state of Israel . First , that the Jews who suffered greatly under the racist ideology of Nazism are implementing another brand of the same racist ideology , Zionism which claims superiority over other human beings . That the Jews who suffered genocide under Hitler are today , carrying out genocide against the Palestinians . Thirdly , that the Jews who for over 2,000 years yearned for a homeland are now denying another race of people , the Palestinians , a homeland of their own . <p> The fourth irony I pointed out is Israel which at inception refused to allow God be mentioned in their constitution , because the new Jewish leaders argued that God had done very little for them , and therefore deserved no mention , is being presented as a Christian country . I pointed out that the founders of Zionism and Israel including Theodor Herzel , the Austro-Hungarian journalist who founded the Zionist Movement , David Ben-Gurion ( Green ) founder and first Prime Minister of modern Israel , Moshe Dayan , former Defence and Foreign Minister , and former Prime Ministers Golda Meir and Yitzak Rabin were atheists ! <p> But that unfortunately , many Africans sheepishly and ignorantly support and rationalize the crimes against humanity perpetuated by Israel because they have the false belief that it is a religious conflict . I concluded that the resolution remains a two-state solution where Israelis and Palestinians would have guaranteed and secured borders , with a shared Jerusalem and a shared commitment to social justice . <p> Malam Naseer Kura , political and human rights activist said the Palestinian issue is a struggle against occupation and racism and that there is the need to for Nigerians to wage the Palestinian struggle as they did against Apartheid . The Nigerian government he said , needs to go beyond the mere recognition of the PLO and Palestine Authority to ensure that Israel abides by United Nations Resolutions . He urged it to set aside a Solidarity Day with Palestine . <p> Dr. Ihsan Adel of Ruhr University , Germany said the five million Palestinian refugees must be allowed to return to their ancestral home . Ruhr who provided statistics on the continued Israeli theft of Palestinian lands , replacing existing Palestinian homes with Jewish settlements and the 708-kilometre wall Israel has built into the Palestinian West Bank , appealed to countries including Nigeria to insist that Palestinians like other peoples of the world , have a right to self-determination . <p> Biodun Aremu , Secretary of the Joint Action Front ( JAF ) of Civil Societies and Co-Secretary of the Labour-Civil Society Coalition ( LASCO ) said there are four major historical injustices . They are the Trans-Atlantic Slave Trade which went on for 350 years , the 1884/85 Partition of Africa ; the Palestinian Issue and the continued colonization of the Saharawi in Western Sahara by Morocco . <p> He said given the ambivalence of the UN on many issues including the Palestinian Question , there may be the need to renegotiate the body or Nigeria 's membership , adding that the Veto power must not be allowed to continue . <p> Aremu argued that : " The American economy is a war economy , that is why it is at war everywhere " and encourages conflicts including in the Palestine . He urged for mass education to educate Nigerians and Africans about the nature of the Palestinian conflict , America and the UN . <p> Rasheed Atta , a lawyer from the International Institute for Human heritage ( IIHH ) argued that with the Palestinians in captivity , all humans are in bondage . To pressure Israel to end its gross violation of human rights of Palestinians , he urged an international boycott of Israeli goods , disinvestment from its businesses and sanctions . <p> Participants endorsed the submissions of the speakers and the need to support the right of Palestinians to self-determination and their homeland . 
@@51278048 <h> Palestine : The Human Race , Animal Race and Rat Race , By Owei Lakemfa <p> ... in this age , when many take basic human rights for granted , in the case of the Palestinians , Israel violates ALL the 30 Articles of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights passed 71 years ago . This includes the building of physical and mental walls ; mass imprisonment ; discrimination ; torture ; cruel , inhuman and degrading treatment ; arbitrary arrest ; detention and exile . <p> Nabil Suleiman stood before the Nigerian audience . His speech was quite short . It did not matter , because his being told the story of pain . Apparently , he has done well for himself but it is an inner fulfillment he seemed to crave and an end to the suffering of his people , the Palestinians . It was at the 2019 Human Rights Day on Wednesday , December 10 . He told the audience at the University of Lagos : " I have been in Nigeria for more than twenty years . I am proud to be a Nigerian , and I am proud to be a Palestinian . My father left Palestine in 1948 when he was five . I was born in Lebanon ; I have never been to Palestine . " <p> His story is typical of five million Palestinians who are refugees in various parts of the world because Israel refuses them the right to return home , contrary to international law and the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights , which states that : " Everyone has the right to leave any country , including his own , and to return to his country . " Israel , which is occupying the Palestinian territories , including Gaza and the West Bank , refuses to allow Mr. Suleiman 's family to return home , and is refusing him and his children the right to even see their homeland . <p> It is for people like the Suleiman family , world peace and social justice , that eight Nigerian human rights and civil society groups held a joint international symposium on , " The Inalienable Rights Of Palestinians To Statehood . " <p> Alhaji Hassan Adebayo Sunmonu , 79 , founding president of the Nigeria Labour Congress ( NLC ) and former secretary-general of the Organisation of African Trade Union Unity ( OATUU ) , is one of a few Africans who met and interacted with Yasser Arafat , the legendary Palestinian leader who dedicated his life to the liberation of his people . As chairperson of the occasion , he said the Palestinian cause is just and backed by international conventions and laws , but that these have not been effected because : " In international relations , the application of international laws is also a question of power play . " The United Nations ( UN ) , he said , has been powerless in calling Israel to order because a single country amongst the five permanent members of the UN Security Council ( United States , Britain , France , China and Russia ) can veto the decision of all other members of the world body . He argued that the Jewish lobby and media in America is so powerful that it is virtually impossible for any American administration to oppose Israeli actions , no matter how outrageous . <p> In my paper , I opined that the 2019 International Human Rights Day starkly reminds us that the human race should be superior and live better lives than the animal race , while avoiding the rat race . <p> I observed that in this age , when many take basic human rights for granted , in the case of the Palestinians , Israel violates ALL the 30 Articles of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights passed 71 years ago . This includes the building of physical and mental walls ; mass imprisonment ; discrimination ; torture ; cruel , inhuman and degrading treatment ; arbitrary arrest ; detention and exile . <p> ... unfortunately , many Africans sheepishly and ignorantly support and rationalise the crimes against humanity perpetuated by Israel because they have the false belief that it is a religious conflict ... the resolution remains a two-state solution , whereby Israelis and Palestinians would have guaranteed and secured borders , with a shared Jerusalem and a shared commitment to social justice . <p> I pointed out four ironies about the state of Israel . First , that the Jews who suffered greatly under the racist ideology of Nazism are the ones implementing another brand of the same racist ideology , Zionism , which claims superiority over other human beings . That the Jews , who suffered genocide under Hitler , are today carrying out genocide against the Palestinians . Thirdly , that the Jews , who for over 2,000 years yearned for a homeland , are now denying another race of people , the Palestinians , a homeland of their own . <p> The fourth irony I noted was that Israel , which at inception refused to allow God be mentioned in their constitution , because the new Jewish leaders argued that God had done very little for them , and therefore deserved no mention , is being presented as a Christian country . I emphasised that the founders of Zionism and Israel , including Theodor Herzel , the Austro-Hungarian journalist who founded the Zionist Movement ; David Ben-Gurion ( Green ) , founder and first prime Minister of modern Israel ; Moshe Dayan , former defence and foreign minister ; and former Prime Ministers Golda Meir and Yitzak Rabin , were atheists ! <p> But that unfortunately , many Africans sheepishly and ignorantly support and rationalise the crimes against humanity perpetuated by Israel because they have the false belief that it is a religious conflict . I concluded that the resolution remains a two-state solution , whereby Israelis and Palestinians would have guaranteed and secured borders , with a shared Jerusalem and a shared commitment to social justice . <p> Malam Naseer Kura , a political and human rights activist , said the Palestinian issue is a struggle against occupation and racism and that there is the need for Nigerians to wage the Palestinian struggle as they did against Apartheid . The Nigerian government he said , needs to go beyond the mere recognition of the Palestinian Liberation Organisation ( PLO ) and the Palestine Authority to ensure that Israel abides by United Nations Resolutions . He urged the country to set aside a Solidarity Day with Palestine . <p> Dr. Ihsan Adel of Ruhr University , Germany said the five million Palestinian refugees must be allowed to return to their ancestral home . Ruhr , who provided statistics on the continued Israeli theft of Palestinian lands , replacing existing Palestinian homes with Jewish settlements and the 708-kilometre wall Israel has built into the Palestinian West Bank , appealed to countries including Nigeria to insist that Palestinians , like other peoples of the world , have a right to self-determination . <p> Aremu argued that : " The American economy is a war economy , that is why it is at war everywhere " and encourages conflicts , including in the Palestine . He urged for mass education to enlighten Nigerians and Africans about the nature of the Palestinian conflict , America and the UN . <p> Biodun Aremu , secretary of the Joint Action Front ( JAF ) of Civil Societies and co-secretary of the Labour-Civil Society Coalition ( LASCO ) said there are four major historical injustices . They are the Trans-Atlantic Slave Trade , which went on for 350 years ; the 1884/85 Partition of Africa ; the Palestinian Issue and the continued colonisation of the Saharawi in Western Sahara by Morocco . <p> He said that given the ambivalence of the UN on many issues , including the Palestinian Question , there may be the need to renegotiate the body or Nigeria 's membership , adding that the veto power must not be allowed to continue . <p> Aremu argued that : " The American economy is a war economy , that is why it is at war everywhere " and encourages conflicts , including in the Palestine . He urged for mass education to enlighten Nigerians and Africans about the nature of the Palestinian conflict , America and the UN . <p> Rasheed Atta , a lawyer from the International Institute for Human heritage ( IIHH ) , contended that with the Palestinians in captivity , all humans are in bondage . To pressure Israel to end its gross violation of human rights of Palestinians , he urged an international boycott of Israeli goods , disinvestment from its businesses and sanctions . <p> Participants endorsed the submissions of the speakers and the need to support the right of Palestinians to self-determination and their homeland . <p> Owei Lakemfa , a former secretary general of African workers , is a human rights activist , journalist and author . 
@@51299694 <h> Bethlehem Welcomes Pilgrims For Christmas Celebrations <p> Tourists and pilgrims visit the Manger Square outside the Church of the Nativity in the biblical West Bank city of Bethlehem on December 24 , 2019 . HAZEM BADER / AFP <p> Pilgrims from around the world gathered Tuesday in the biblical city of Bethlehem , revered by Christians as the birthplace of Jesus , ushering in Christmas celebrations across the globe . <p> Thousands of Palestinians and foreigners converged on the " little town " in the Israeli-occupied West Bank , with Christmas Eve festivities taking place in and around the Church of the Nativity . <p> Archbishop Pierbattista Pizzaballa , the apostolic administrator of the Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem and the most senior Roman Catholic official in the Middle East , arrived from the holy city at the head of a procession . <p> Bethlehem is close to Jerusalem but cut off from it by Israel 's separation barrier . <p> After crossing through the wall , Pizzaballa said it was a difficult time but there was a reason for " hope " . <p> " We see in this period the weakness of politics , enormous economic problems , unemployment , problems in families , " he said . <p> " On the other side , when I visit families , parishes , communities , I see a lot of commitment ... for the future . <p> " Christmas is for us to celebrate the hope . " <p> In the square outside the church , a few thousand people watched in the winter sun as Palestinian scouts paraded in front of a 15-metre Christmas tree . <p> " The church is beautiful and it puts what we know in the Bible ( in ) place , " said Laneda , an American tourist visiting the site . <p> " Everything is just very meaningful . " <p> As evening fell , crowds thinned as the church closed to tourists ahead of midnight mass , which Pizzaballa was to lead , with Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas expected to attend . <p> Pope Francis was set to address the world 's 1.3 billion Catholics late Tuesday evening . <h> ' Bumpy year ' <p> The first church was built on the site of Jesus 's birth in the fourth century , though it was replaced after a fire in the sixth century . <p> This year celebrations were bolstered by the return of a wooden fragment believed to be from the manger of Jesus . <p> Sent as a gift to Pope Theodore I in 640 , the piece had been in Europe for more than 1,300 years before being returned last month , Francesco Patton , chief custodian for the Holy Land , said . <p> " We venerate the relic because ( it ) reminds us of the mystery of incarnation , to the fact that the son of God was born of Mary in Bethlehem more than 2,000 years ago , " Patton told AFP at the time . <p> In the square by the church , Palestinian tourism minister Rula Maayah told AFP it had been a good year , with 3.5 million tourists visiting the city . <p> But fewer Christians from the Gaza Strip were in attendance than in previous years , as Israel had granted permits to just around 300 of some 900 people who applied , said Wadie Abunassar , an adviser to church leaders in the Holy Land . <p> The Palestinian territories of the West Bank and Gaza are separated by Israeli territory and crossing between them requires hard-to-get permits . <p> Around the world , people were getting ready to ring in the Christmas festivities . <p> In her traditional Christmas Day message , Britain 's Queen Elizabeth II was to describe 2019 as " quite bumpy " after a year of crises in the royal family . <p> In France , travellers were meanwhile facing more woe in the bitter nearly-three week strike by train drivers fighting government pension reform plans . <p> The walkout has ruined Christmas travel plans for tens of thousands of French ticket holders unable to reach loved ones in time for Christmas Day . <p> A frantic scramble for gift promotions left a dozen people injured in an Australian mall . <p> But in Hong Kong chaos broke out in an upscale mall after pro-democracy protesters planned a series of Christmas Ever demonstrations . <p> And in the central Philippines , where Christmas is widely celebrated among the country 's Catholics , thousands of people were warned to leave their homes as a severe tropical storm approached . 
@@51302746 <h> Pope Francis ushers in Christmas with message of ' unconditional love ' <p> Pope Francis ushered in Christmas on Wednesday for the world 's 1.3 billion Catholics with a message of unconditional love , saying " God continues to love us all , even the worst of us " . <p> " You may have mistaken ideas , you may have made a complete mess of things , but the Lord continues to love you , " the pontiff told crowds gathered at the Vatican for his Christmas Eve midnight mass . <p> The Argentinian also emphasized " unconditional " love , in a year that has seen the Pope move to combat silence surrounding pedophilia in the Roman Catholic church , which has been rocked by thousands of reports of sexual abuse by priests around the world and accusations of cover-ups by senior clergy . <p> Earlier this month , he removed a Pontifical secrecy rule , which critics said prevented priests and victims from reporting abuse , and in May passed a landmark measure to oblige those who know about sex abuse to report it to their superiors . <p> Francis will at noon on Wednesday give the traditional Christmas Day mass -- his seventh -- addressed to the world in front of St Peter 's Square . <p> Meanwhile , thousands of Palestinians and foreigners converged in the biblical town of Bethlehem , revered by Christians as the birthplace of Jesus , in the Israeli-occupied West Bank . <p> A few hundred worshippers gathered in the church on the site of Jesus 's birth for midnight mass , attended by Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas . Hundreds more gathered outside , watching on screens in the crisp air . <p> -- ' Special greetings ' to Gaza --But fewer Christians from the Gaza Strip were in attendance than in previous years , as Israel had granted permits to just around 300 of some 900 people who applied , said Wadie Abunassar , an adviser to Church leaders in the Holy Land . <p> At midnight bells rang out throughout the town , Archbishop Pierbattista Pizzaballa , the most senior Roman Catholic official in the Middle East , led hymns and said prayers . <p> " At Christmas , all the world looks to us , to Bethlehem , " he said . <p> " Special greetings to our brothers and sisters in Gaza , with whom I celebrated Christmas two days ago , " he added . <p> Pizzaballa , who had to cross Israel 's separation barrier to getting from Jerusalem to Bethlehem , said after his arrival that it was a difficult time but there was the reason for hope . <p> " We see in this period the weakness of politics , enormous economic problems , unemployment , problems in families , " he said . <p> " On the other side , when I visit families , parishes , communities , I see a lot of commitment ... for the future . Christmas is for us to celebrate the hope . " <p> Earlier on Christmas Eve , a few thousand people watched in the winter sun as Palestinian scouts paraded in front of a giant Christmas tree . <p> " The church is beautiful and it puts what we know in the Bible ( in ) place , " said Laneda , an American tourist visiting the site . " Everything is just very meaningful . " <p> French Catholics endured a sad moment as Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris was unable to hold Christmas Eve Mass for the first time since 1803 -- after a fire ravaged its structure in April . <p> In the Philippines , a majority Catholic country , typhoon Phanfone brought a wet and miserable Christmas Day to millions , many of them stranded at shuttered ports or evacuation centres . 
@@51311709 <h> Badge of Shame <p> The Israeli Air Force conducted retaliatory strikes against Hamas targets in the Gaza Strip early Thursday after a rocket was launched from the embattled area into Israel , forcing Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to be rushed off stage to safety during a campaign event . <p> U.S. President Donald Trump said on Tuesday that Phase 1 of trade deal with China would be signed on Jan. 15 at the White House , though considerable confusion remains about the details of the agreement . <h> Twitter <h> Most Popular <p> Chairman of the Senate Committee on Judiciary and Human Rights , Opeyemi Bamidele , has said the release of a former National Security Adviser ( NSA ) , Col. Sambo Dasuki ( retd. ) , and #RevolutionNow Convener Omoyele Sowore from detention proved President Muhammadu Buhari as an apostle of the rule of law . <p> The Barca hierarchy believes that Neymar is the natural replacement for Lionel Messi . The club believe it will be easier to bring Neymar back to Camp Nou once Messi is gone , given that Neymar has already played there and there are not too many players at his level . <p> Mr. Osaigbovo Aghatise , a Benin based philanthropist remembered widows in Edo State as he gave out food items worth millions of naira to over 100 of them in the state to enable them celebrate the Christmas and the New Year . 
@@51313471 <h> Guardian Life 's Outstanding Personalities Of 2019 <p> By Guardian Life 29 December 2019 6:00 am <p> From the beginning of the year until now , despite the many travails that have befallen the nation , there are Nigerians who have continuously shown in the past few months that regardless of the darkness , light shines through . <p> Arriving at this list , The Guardian Life measured the contribution of the personalities on a global scale , each redefining what impact , service and innovation mean . <p> This time , only three personalities Anthony Joshua , Burna Boy , Genevieve Nnaji make a comeback . <h> Art <p> Ken NwadiogbuKen Nwadiogbu was relatively unknown until 2018 when his work of art titled Thy Brother Is Not Their Brother Indeed achieved international recognition . A few days after posting his art on social media , Nwadiogbu 's works of art sparked a rather take on hyperrealism across various continents because of its uniqueness . The pioneer of a style of art , called Contemporealism ( a fusion of contemporary art and hyperrealism ) , he became the only Nigerian this year to headline the " Moniker Art Fair , " the world 's biggest contemporary urban fair . He is also the first recipient of the " Future Awards 2019 " for the Africa Prize for Visual And Applied Arts . <h> Film <p> Genevieve NnajiGenevieve Nnaji has again proven that she is a force to reckon with in not just the Nigeria movie industry but Africa in general . She is also known to have many firsts , some of which include the first actress to be awarded Best Actress by the Censors Board of Nigeria and the first actress to win the " Africa Movie Academy Awards " ( AMAA ) for Best Actress in a Leading Role ( 2005 ) . The actress who is listed in Oprah Winfrey 's Most Famous People in the World , reached another milestone after her directorial debut Lionheart made the submission list for the " Oscars " making it the first Nigerian film to achieve this feat . <p> The CriticsIn the northwestern state of Kaduna , ten Nigerian kids caught the attention of the world by creating sci-fi films without the appropriate tools . <p> In this remarkable display of creativity , Godwin Gaza Josiah ( 19 ) , Raymond Yusuff ( 17 ) , Victor Josiah ( 15 ) , Ronald Yusuff ( 15 ) , Richard Yusuff ( 14 ) , Lawson Titus ( 17 ) , Rejoice Josiah ( 12 ) , Rachael Yusuff ( 8 ) and Rachael Ken ( 5 ) , filmed with a phone with a cracked screen , while a broken microphone served as their tripod . They revealed that they saved for a month to afford the green screen and through YouTube videos , they taught themselves visual effects to create the magic that got the attention of international media such as Reuters , Al-Jazeera and a $6,000 ( ? 2,169,000 ) fund . <h> Music <p> Burna BoyBurna Boy has no doubt proved himself an African Giant and it is no wonder why he makes the list of " Outstanding Personalities of 2019 . " The music superstar cemented his megastar power this year again with a number of commendable feats . <p> Starting 2019 on a good note , he was announced alongside Mr Eazi as one of the artists performing at the 2019 Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival on January 3 . <p> He also went on to win several notable awards including the Soundcity MVP AwardsFestival , Future Awards , The Headies , All Africa Music Awards among others . <p> The 28-year-old singer born Damini Ogulu did not stop his domination in just the African scene as his undeniable talent landed him his first well-earned " Grammy " nomination with African Giant . Whether he walks home with a gold gramophone or not in 2020 does not take away the fact that he is a winner . <p> Outside of awards , Burna Boy 's fervent authenticity provided him room to shine as he was not only a guest artist but owned a track on the Beyonc ? -curated and produced album The Lion King : The Gift . <p> He also landed an original on the soundtrack for Queen &amp; Slim an impending blockbuster on black love . <p> Grab a copy of LIFE Magazine , an insert in The Guardian Newspaper 's Sunday edition , to see who else made the list . 
