@@51235617 <p> The death toll from floods that have triggered landslides and sent torrents sweeping through villages in the Indian state of Kerala trebled Friday to 324 , authorities said , amid warnings of worse weather to come . Hundreds of troops and local fishermen are staging desperate rescue attempts with helicopters and boats across the southern state , which draws ... <p> Hundreds of troops led a desperate operation to rescue families trapped by mounting floods in India 's Kerala state Thursday as the death toll reached 106 with nearly 150,000 left homeless . Helicopters airlifted stranded victims from rooftops and dam gates were thrown open as incessant torrential rain brought fresh havoc to the southern state that is ... <p> Scenes of destruction greeted rescue workers across Indonesia 's resort island of Lombok on Monday , after an earthquake of magnitude 6.9 killed at least 98 people and prompted an exodus of tourists rattled by the second powerful quake in a week . The National Disaster Mitigation Agency ( BNPB ) said it expected the death toll to rise once ... <p> The death toll in one of the most lethal attacks in Pakistan 's history increased to 149 people , an official said Sunday , as top politicians joined a day of national mourning . According to Deputy Commissioner Mastung , Qaim Lashari , nine children are among the dead . Friday 's attack was the latest in a series of blasts at various ... <p> The death toll in a powerful earthquake that rocked Japan 's Osaka on Monday has risen to four , with over 380 injured , officials said Tuesday , urging vigilance against landslides ahead of heavy rains . The fourth fatality was an 81-year-old woman , who died after she was trapped under a chest of drawers in her house , officials said .... <p> At least 25 people were killed when Guatemala 's Fuego volcano erupted Sunday , belching ash and rock and forcing the capital 's main airport to close . The volcano expelled hot muddy material that caused the deaths -- including of several children -- in the El Rodeo and Las Lajas communities located on its southern slope , disaster agency ... <p> Quetta : Twenty-three people were killed and 11 wounded after gas explosions tore through two neighbouring coal mines in Balochistan , officials said Sunday . Shortly before midday on Saturday , a build-up of methane caused an explosion and tunnel collapse at a mine in Marwaarh , east of Quetta . Jawaid Shahwani , the top government official in Quetta , said 16 ... <p> Lightning strikes and powerful dust storms across India have killed at least 116 people and injured more than 250 as meteorologists warned Thursday of more wild weather on the horizon . Dust clouds plunged swathes of north India into darkness as winds of more than 130 kilometres per hour ( 80 miles per hour ) brought down feeble ... <p> Kabul : Afghan shopkeeper Ali Rasuli was standing at the end of a long queue of people waiting to pick up their national ID certificates on Sunday when a fireball erupted in front of him . The suicide bombing outside a voter and ID registration centre in Kabul killed at least 48 people , injured 112 and briefly ... <p> Gaza City , Palestinian Territories : A Palestinian succumbed to his wounds Monday three days after being shot by Israeli forces when a mass protest led to clashes , Gaza 's health ministry said , raising the death toll to 17 . Faris al-Raqib , 29 , was shot in the stomach during Friday 's clashes east of Khan Yunis in southern Gaza , the ... <p> GILGIT : District administration has recovered bodies of two more people who had gone missing due to Wednesday 's landsliding in Darel area of Gilgit-Baltistan . The death rose to nine , officials said . The bodies were recovered after rescue operation by district administration , Pakistan Army and Disaster Management Authority ( GBDMA ) . The dead were identified as Naseer Ahmad of ... <p> Douma , Syria : Fresh shelling of Eastern Ghouta endangered a vital aid delivery on Friday , nearly three weeks into a blistering Syrian regime offensive that has seized more than half of the rebel enclave . More than 940 civilians have been killed since Russia-backed government forces launched an assault on the last opposition bastion near Damascus on ... <p> HAMMURIYEH : Syria 's government has recaptured half of Eastern Ghouta , battering the shrinking rebel enclave on Wednesday with air strikes that killed dozens and defying UN calls for a halt to violence . The blistering onslaught has prompted international outrage , including accusations by the United Nations that the government was orchestrating an " apocalypse " . The Russia-backed Syrian army ... <p> Beirut : Fresh air strikes on Eastern Ghouta near Damascus brought the death toll for Wednesday 's bombardment on the rebel-held enclave near Damascus to 45 , a monitor said . The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights monitoring group said at least 18 of the day 's victims were killed in strikes carried out by Russian warplanes on Hammuriyeh . The ... <p> DOUMA : Heavy air strikes and clashes shook the Syrian rebel enclave of Eastern Ghouta on Tuesday , a day ahead of an urgent UN Security Council meeting on the escalating violence . The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said 805 civilians -- including at least 178 children -- have been killed since Russia-backed regime forces launched an ... <p> UNITED NATIONS : The UN Security Council on Saturday unanimously demanded a 30-day ceasefire in Syria , as new air strikes on the rebel enclave of Eastern Ghouta took the civilian death toll from seven days of bombing to more than 500 . With support from Russia , the Security Council approved a resolution calling for a ceasefire " without ... <p> MULTAN : Three more patients under treatment from seasonal influenza at Nishtar Hospital , including two women , breathed their last on Tuesday , taking the total death toll from the disease in the past month-and-a-half to at least 38 . The deceased belonged Multan , Khanewal and Layyah . Earlier , the health department had shared that 242 cases of seasonal influenza ... <p> GAZA CITY : A Palestinian died on Saturday after being wounded by Israeli fire during a protest on the Gaza border against US recognition of Jerusalem as Israel 's capital , the health ministry said . Sharaf Shalash , 28 , sustained bullet wounds last Sunday during a demonstration east of Jabalia in the northern Gaza Strip , ministry spokesman Ashraf al-Qudra ... <p> Armed attackers on Friday killed at least 235 worshippers in a bomb and gun assault on a packed mosque in Egypt 's restive North Sinai province , in the country 's deadliest attack in recent memory . A bomb explosion ripped through the Rawda mosque frequented by Sufis roughly 40 kilometres west of the North Sinai capital of El-Arish ... 
@@51236605 <h> Palestinian teenage boy killed by Israeli forces in Gaza Strip <p> A Palestinian teenage boy has been killed after Israeli forces attacked anti-occupation protests taking place in the besieged Gaza Strip . <p> According to the Gazan Health Ministry , the Israeli forces killed the boy and injured five people most of them children , east of Khan Yunis , in southern Gaza Strip . <p> The child was identified as 16-year-old Fahd Mohammed Walid al-Astal . <p> Local sources said that the Israeli forces opened fire on dozens of young men who staged a protest east of Khan Yunis , noting that the rally was held although the organizers announced the annulment of the rallies slated for Friday . <p> The organizers attributed the decision to their desire to safeguard the blood of the protesters , referring to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's attempts to " export his internal crisis to our besieged strip " after his failure to form a new government , deepening a political deadlock in the occupied territories . <p> The " Great March of Return " rallies have been held every week since March 30 last year . The Palestinians want the return of those driven out of their homeland by Israeli aggression . <p> Israeli troops have killed at least 307 Palestinians since the beginning of the rallies and wounded more than 18,000 others , according to the Gazan Health Ministry . <p> In March , a United Nations fact-finding mission found that Israeli forces committed rights violations during their crackdown against the Palestinian protesters in Gaza that may amount to war crimes . <p> Gaza has been under Israeli siege since June 2007 , which has caused a decline in living standards . <p> Israel has also launched three major wars against the enclave since 2008 , killing thousands of Gazans each time and shattering the impoverished territory 's already poor infrastructure . 
@@51315127 <h> Share <p> UNITED NATIONS -- Israeli authorities have demolished and seized over six hundred Palestinian structures in the occupied West Bank since January as part of Israel 's continuous occupation and aggressive land-grab policies , according to a new UN report . <p> The report , entitled " Protection of Civilians " , from the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs ( OCHA ) said that 617 structures have been demolished or seized so far this year , displacing 898 Palestinians . <p> It noted that the figures represent a 35 and 92 percent increase respectively , compared with the same period in 2018 . <p> Additionally , over 20 percent of all structures targeted this , and some 40 percent of all donor-funded aid structures were located in firing zones , which cover about 30 percent of Area C , an administrative division of the West Bank , set out in the Oslo Accord . <p> Under the accord , the Israeli army has full control over the management of resources , planning and construction in the West Bank 's Area C , and strictly limits Palestinian construction or development to less than one percent of the area . <p> The territory accounts for more than 60 percent of the occupied West Bank , and would form a significant part of a future Palestine state under the two-state solution . <p> The OCHA further highlighted that Israeli forces uprooted or chopped down about 2,500 trees and saplings during a demolition operation in a shooting area east of Nablus , and that the trees were part of a recreational area that served about 14,000 residents of Beit Furik town and nearby Khirbat Tana village . <p> The report went on to say that Israeli authorities have demolished 29 Palestinian buildings or forced their owners to demolish them in Area C and occupied Jerusalem al-Quds during the past two weeks , under the pretext that they have been constructed without proper permits . The demolitions led to the displacement of 45 Palestinians and incurred losses on more than 100 others . <p> Moreover , Israeli forces injured 14 Palestinians , including at least three children , in several incidents across the West Bank . <p> The UN says Israel has advanced or approved plans for over 22,000 housing units in the occupied West Bank . <p> According to the report , Israeli settlers injured four Palestinians and damaged about 330 olive trees and seven vehicles during eight attacks in the West Bank over the past two weeks . <p> Elsewhere in the Gaza Strip , the OCHA pointed out Israeli military forces injured a total of 129 Palestinians , including 44 children , during the " Great March of Return " rallies . <p> The monthly economic loss for the Gaza Strip due to the Israeli blockade stands at nearly $100 million . <p> The OCHA reported that Israeli soldiers shot and killed an 18-year-old Palestinian east of Khan Yunis on December 17 as he approached the border fence . His body is currently being held by Israeli officials . <p> On at least 15 occasions , Israeli forces opened fire in areas bordering the border fence with intent to impose access restrictions , and conducted an incursion and bulldozing operation near the fence . Four Palestinians , including three children , were arrested near the border fence in two separate incidents . 
