@@51238023 <p> When I was a little girl , like many women of my generation who grew up watching American television shows ( even if they were dubbed in Arabic ) , I used to twirl and twirl , trying to attain super powers like Wonder Woman . I would twitch my nose to magically transform my surroundings , like Samantha from Bewitched . <p> These female characters were exceptions among the docile housewives , the efficient secretaries , and damsels in distress that pervaded the popular media of my time . Wonder Woman and Samantha had the power to change their lives , even if that power had to remain hidden , forever a secret . <p> I am sure I knew that those characters were n't real , that their powers were mere fantasy for the sake of entertainment . But that did not stop me from believing that maybe , just maybe , I might also have power lurking somewhere in me . It did n't matter that twirling only made me dizzy and twitching my nose failed to magically complete my chores . I kept trying . <p> WHEN I was young , there was a joke : " There is no one like you -- and that 's a good thing ! " The joke applies now to Donald Trump . He is unique . That 's good , indeed . But is he unique ? As a world-wide phenomenon , or at least in the Western world , is he without parallel ? As a character , Trump is indeed unique . It is extremely difficult to imagine any other Western country electing somebody like that as its supreme leader . But beyond his particular personality , is Trump unique ? BEFORE THE US election , something happened in Britain . The Brexit vote . <p> When a Briton or American speaks about a " four-letter word " , he means a vulgar sexual term , a word not to be mentioned in polite society . In Israel we also have such a word , a word of four letters . A word not to mention . This word is " Shalom " , peace . ( In Hebrew , " sh " is one letter , and the " a " is not written . ) For years now this word has disappeared from intercourse ( except as a greeting ) . Every politician knows that it is deadly . Every citizen knows that it is unmentionable . There are many words to replace it . " Political agreement " . " Separation " . " We are here and they are there " . " Regional arrangement " . To name a few . <p> CONAN DOYLE , the creator of the legendary Sherlock Holmes , would have titled his story about this incident " The Bizarre Case of Bashar al-Assad " . And bizarre it is . It concerns the evil deeds of Bashar al-Assad , the Syrian dictator , who bombed his own people with Sarin , a nerve gas , causing gruesome deaths of the victims . Like everybody else around the world , I heard about the foul deed a few hours after it happened . Like everybody else , I was shocked . And yet ... AND YET , I am a professional investigative journalist . For 40 years of my life I was the editor-in-chief of an investigative weekly magazine , which exposed nearly all of Israel 's major scandals during those years . I have never lost a major libel suit , indeed I have rarely been sued at all . I am mentioning this not to boast , but to lend some authority to what I am going to say . <p> I HAVE a unique confession to make : I like Gaza . Yes , I like this far-away corner of Palestine , the narrow strip on the way to Egypt , in which two million human beings are crowded , and which is closer to hell than to heaven . My heart goes out to them . I HAVE spent quite a lot of time in the Strip . Once or twice I stayed there with Rachel for a couple of days . I became friendly with some people whom I admired , people like Dr. Haidar Abd-al-Shafi , the leftist doctor who set up the Gazan health system , and Rashad al-Shawa , the former Mayor , an aristocrat from birth <p> THE WHOLE thing could have been a huge practical joke , if it had not been real . All of Israel was taken in . Left , right and center . All the newspapers and TV networks , without exception . There it was : UNESCO has declared that the Cave of Machpelah in Hebron is a Palestinian heritage site . I ADMIT that I was taken in , too . The news was so clear and so simple , its acceptance so uniform , that I too accepted it unthinkingly . True , it was a bit strange , but stranger things happen . <p> GEORGE SOROS , the American multi-billionaire , is causing Binyamin Netanyahu a lot of trouble . At this particular moment , Netanyahu does not need any more trouble . A huge corruption affair , concerning German-built submarines , is rolling slowly and inexorably towards him . Soros is a Hungarian Jew , a Holocaust survivor . The Hungarian governing party plastered his face all over Budapest with a text that barely hid its anti-Semitic intent . Soros ' sin is his support for human rights associations in his former homeland . He does the same in Israel , though on a much smaller scale . So Netanyahu does not like him either . <p> MY LATE friend , Nathan Yellin-Mor , the political leader of the LEHI underground , once told me that a certain politician is " not a great thinker and not a small fool . " I remember that sentence every time I think about Gilad Erdan , our Minister of Public Security . His part in the events of the last few weeks , in which the entire Middle East almost exploded , confirmed this judgment . On the other hand , Binyamin Netanyahu reminds me of the saying : " A clever person is one who knows how to extricate himself from a trap which a wise person would not have gotten into in the first place . " About Netanyahu I would have said : " A very clever but not a very wise person . " <p> THE WHOLE world watched with bated breath while the days passed . Then the hours . Then the minutes . The world watched while the condemned man , Muhammad Abu-Ali of Qalqiliya , waited for his execution . Abu-Ali was a convicted terrorist . He had bought a knife and killed four members of a family in a nearby Jewish settlement . He had acted alone in a fit of anger , after his beloved cousin , Ahmed , was shot and killed by the Israeli border police during a demonstration . This is an imaginary case . But it resembles very much what would happen if a real case that is now pending were to take this turn . <p> THE VULTURES are circling . They can see the wounded man on the ground , and are waiting for his end . So are the human carnivores -- the politicians . They sing his praises , swear to defend him with all their heart -- but in their heads they are already calculating who might be his successor . Each of them mutters to themself : Why not me ? Binyamin Netanyahu is facing the greatest crisis in his long career . The police are about to conclude their investigations . The Attorney General is under huge pressure to issue official indictments . The large demonstrations near the Attorney General 's home are growing from week to week . 
@@51242847 <p> ARUNDHATI ROY : The Narmada dam , sorry , the dams that are built on this Narmada River . And , to me , that political understanding and education that I received from that movement , I see the bones of -- the sacrificial bones of this uniquely Indian fascism really in the foundations of that dam , you know , really the idea that there is a community that is more entitled than another , the idea that you can take the water from a river valley , centralize it in a dam reservoir and then decide who should -- who should get that water . <p> I mean , recently , now that the dam is built , now that everything that the anti-dam movement has said has come true , we had an incredible spectacle of : whatever little water there was in the reservoir , which should have been used for the farmers of Gujarat through the drought months , given what the dam said it was going to do , was released , in a rush , the day -- just weeks before the Gujarat election . For what ? For the prime minister to land a seaplane as an election spectacle . And today , that water is gone . And what little water there is in the canal is being protected by the police from farmers who need it . You know , this is fascism . It 's not just concentration camps , you know ? <p> AMY GOODMAN : Which most people here really know almost nothing about . <p> ARUNDHATI ROY : Nothing about . I mean , just imagine the fact that just in the last few , two or three , years , a new technique of firing pellet guns into crowds has blinded completely or partially more than a thousand people . A thousand people , you know ? But under the banner of this market-friendly democracy , no one 's going to talk about it . Under the banner of a democracy that buys huge amounts of weapons from France , from America , we are being courted . All those dark secrets are being swept under the carpet , because we are buying weapons from the West . And how will the West survive if we idiots do n't buy weapons ? <p> So , I mean , 20 years of traveling , of seeing , of writing , but all those essays were always very urgent interventions in a situation that was closing down . There was something very urgent about the way they were written . But , simultaneously , there was all this kind of gathering in me -- for example , the travels in Kashmir . I could not write about Kashmir . Nobody really can easily write about Kashmir in nonfiction , because what happens there is not just based on what evidence you can produce , you know , the terror that seeds the air , the terror of living in the most dense military occupation in the world , half a million soldiers , the complicated -- <p> ARUNDHATI ROY : Well , look , you know , I have always found it remarkable -- I mean , The God of Small Things was a political book . After it won the Booker Prize , people in India especially , but a lot of people , particularly in Kerala , you know , liked to think about it , because they wanted to claim me , but not the politics of the book , so let 's ignore the fact that it 's about the most brutal and ancient social hierarchy that any human society has produced , which is caste . Let 's not talk about that . It can be a book about children , or it can be a book very lyrically written , and so on . <p> This is real scary stuff ! There 's a hell of a lot of stars/planets lining up so to speak to create a very dangerous uprising in India . I wish these people all the best in improving conditions within their country and lots of peace ! <p> Indian-controlled Kashmir was in lockdown Monday , with tens of thousands of new troops deployed into what is already one of the most militarized places in the world , as a number of prominent politicians were placed under house arrest and New Delhi announced contentious changes to the way the territory is administered . <p> A broad communications blackout left many people without access to the internet and phone services across the territory , with measures also in place to prevent public meetings . <p> Pakistan 's prime minister warned that a move by India to strip Kashmir of its special status could lead to war between the two countries and the ethnic cleansing of Muslims in the restive Himalayan region . <p> . . . . <p> Internet and phone service was cut off ahead of Monday 's decree , some 400 local politicians have been placed under arrest by Indian security forces , according to India Today . <p> The magazine reports that hotels , guest houses , government and private buildings have been turned into makeshift jails to house the detainees , which include separatist leaders and even politicians seen as working for an accommodation with India . <p> " On this episode of Going Underground , we speak to Indian author and Director of the Transcontinental Institute for Social Research Vijay Prashad on India 's revocation of Article 370 and the 35th Amendment for Jammu and Kashmir . He discusses this as a sign that Indian federalism is under threat and that the BJP wants an authoritarian , centralized India ... " <p> " Pakistan says it 's going to downgrade diplomatic relations with India and suspend trade with neighbor state , dubbing New Delhi 's decision to revoke the autonomous state of Kashmir as ' unilateral and illegal ' . Pakistan vowed to take the Kashmir issue to the United Nations Security Council ( UNSC ) , while PM Imran Khan , told the Pakistani military to ' continue vigilance ... " <p> This is not the first time that the Hindu right , led by Modi , has unleashed mass suffering in pursuit of its vision of Hindutva , an India that is largely or even exclusively for the Hindus . In 2002 , when Modi was chief minister of the western state of Gujarat , a pogrom against Muslims left nearly a thousand dead and turned many more into refugees . Since Modi 's tenure as prime minister began in 2014 , and especially since being handed a second term in resounding fashion earlier this year , such violence has percolated through the entire nation , provoking lynchings , assassinations , rapes , beatings , imprisonments , and constant abuse on airwaves and social media by Modi 's cheerleaders . <p> " For months , Israel has been assiduously lining itself up alongside India 's nationalist BJP government in an unspoken - and politically dangerous - ' anti-Islamist ' coalition , and unofficial unacknowledged alliance , while India itself has now become the largest weapons market for the Israeli arms trade . The Israelis have filmed joint exercises between their own ' special commando ' units and those sent by India to be trained in the Negev desert , again with all the expertise supposedly learned by Israel in Gaza . <p> Several Indian commentators , however , have warned that right-wing Zionism and right-wing nationalism under Modi should not become the foundation stone of the relationship between the two countries . But it is difficult to see how Zionist nationalism will not leach into Hindu nationalism when Israel is supplying so many weapons to India - the latest of which India , which has enjoyed diplomatic relations with Israel since 1992 , has already used against Islamists , inside Pakistan ... " <p> " ... All those historic assurances by India 's founding fathers to the Kashmiris have been struck down and swept away with the stroke of a pen by the current Indian leadership . A complex melting-pot of a country that once took great pride in its diversity , tolerance and democracy is being recklessly transformed into a majoritarian and totalitarian state ... " <p> I was much younger and naive when I travelled through Kashmir and Ledac , and other parts of India . I have no idea who was in government in India in 1990 but the Indian Army had Srinigar on curfew and the Indian Army was active throughout Kashmir - skirmishes with the Pakistani Army . You could see the fireworks of these assaults on villages at night and rubble the next day . Our hosts during our stay in Srinigar were huge fans of Bob Marley , who they regarded as a warrior for the downtrodden of the world . ( I also think there was a lot of hash being smoked : - ) ) <p> I do hope the BJP is stopped from pursuing this purge of Kashimiri Muslims and the advance of their vision of Hindutva . The whole country was engulfed in violent protests , acts of self-immolation and arson related to Muslim and Hindu tensions and Hindu on Hindu tensions ( protests against certain casts finally being granted greater access to post-secondary education ) . <p> The daughter of one of Kashmir 's most prominent politicians has pleaded with the international community to act over an unprecedented clampdown imposed on millions of people in the territory , warning that Kashmiris are being " caged like animals " and treated as cannon fodder . <p> More than four million people in India , mostly Muslims , are at risk of being declared foreign migrants as the government pushes a hard-line Hindu nationalist agenda that has challenged the country 's pluralist traditions and aims to redefine what it means to be Indian . <p> Christian West supporting Jihad against the Pagan East . Nothing unusual to see here , <p> Christians killing " pagans " en masse has indeed been a feature of history . But that article is about a holocaust against Hindus that has been carried out by Muslims , starting in the middle of the seventh century . <p> " From the time Muslims started arriving , around 632 AD , the history of India becomes a long , monotonous series of murders , massacres , spoliations , and destructions . It is , as usual , in the name of ' a holy war ' of their faith , of their sole God , that the barbarians have destroyed civilizations , wiped out entire races . " <p> And so on and so forth . <p> So , lemme guess . You were hoping that some other posters would come along and offer knee-jerk agreement with your anti-Christian rhetoric , then end up with egg on their face when someone else points out that the article is about Muslims killing Hindus . <p> Or maybe not . But I honestly ca n't think of another reason why you would post anti-Christian comments to back up an article that does n't even mention Christianity once . <p> Christian West supporting Jihad against the Pagan East . Nothing unusual to see here , <p> Christians killing " pagans " en masse has indeed been a feature of history . But that article is about a holocaust against Hindus that has been carried out by Muslims , starting in the middle of the seventh century . <p> " From the time Muslims started arriving , around 632 AD , the history of India becomes a long , monotonous series of murders , massacres , spoliations , and destructions . It is , as usual , in the name of ' a holy war ' of their faith , of their sole God , that the barbarians have destroyed civilizations , wiped out entire races . " <p> And so on and so forth . <p> So , lemme guess . You were hoping that some other posters would come along and offer knee-jerk agreement with your anti-Christian rhetoric , then end up with egg on their face when someone else points out that the article is about Muslims killing Hindus . <p> Or maybe not . But I honestly ca n't think of another reason why you would post anti-Christian comments to back up an article that does n't even mention Christianity once . <p> You 're going to get a lot more than egg on your face for displaying your ignorance . The Hindus were surging against Islam and who came and put a stop to that ? Who was a fan of Islam , helped give them a nation and even assisted in the genocide of Bengali Hindus in 1971 ? https : **39;5014;TOOLONG ... The other context is people are complaining when Aryas defend themselves . Did criticizing christian imperialism bother you this much ? Do we need to discuss missionaries beating school children for celebrating Hindu festivals or paying orphans to step on idols or would you rather retreat gracefully ? <p> If you wan na talk about Christians doing bad stuff to Hindus , including allying with Muslims against them , be my guest . I assure you I wo n't protest . <p> But the original article you posted had nothing to do with Christians , and was exclusively about Muslims doing bad things to Hindus , starting in the seventh century AD . <p> It is indeed Hindu nationalism since it is not just Colonial names that are going . <p> Good riddence to colonial names everywhere but that is not the only story and you would have to be very biased to say otherwise since tehre is objective proof . <p> I had a writer staying with me for a year from Gujarat . He is horrified at the BJP 's aggression and saw the rise of the Indian PM in his home region . He is not Muslim but is horrified at what is taking place . <p> Akbar considered himself a Ghazi for sending the Rajput infidels to hell . <p> -- <p> Your problem , and that of most whites is they hate that India did not convert en masse to western ideology like Africa did . The Turks hate us for the same reason . <p> We are to be told and not speak , seen but not heard . <p> That this thread continues , using obviously bias english language sources such as Al-Jazeera , to mock and decry any attempts at enforcing a taboo against advocating Hindu genocide should show you the real face of the west . <p> ' Machine guns on the streets of India mow down thousands of poor women and children wherever your so-called flag of democracy and Christianity flies . ' - Sardar Udham Singh <p> You 're also displaying your euro-centric white supremacist worldview when you assume that a colonial name means only a european , white , christian one . : ) <p> Stop telling people what their problem is . It makes the rest of your post unreadable and undesireable . <p> I justify nothing other than what I said : that the BJP project is not only to change colonial names but also to change other names . <p> These facts do not come with ideology or race or anything else . They are just facts . Facts I learned while living with an Indian person for a year who just happens not to be an apologist for the excesses of the BJP . <p> That is the point you made and the refutation you ignore by posting completely unrelevent material . <p> Akbar considered himself a Ghazi for sending the Rajput infidels to hell . <p> -- <p> Your problem , and that of most whites is they hate that India did not convert en masse to western ideology like Africa did . The Turks hate us for the same reason . <p> We are to be told and not speak , seen but not heard . <p> That this thread continues , using obviously bias english language sources such as Al-Jazeera , to mock and decry any attempts at enforcing a taboo against advocating Hindu genocide should show you the real face of the west . <p> ' Machine guns on the streets of India mow down thousands of poor women and children wherever your so-called flag of democracy and Christianity flies . ' - Sardar Udham Singh <p> You 're also displaying your euro-centric white supremacist worldview when you assume that a colonial name means only a european , white , christian one . : ) <p> Stop telling people what their problem is . It makes the rest of your post unreadable and undesireable . <p> I justify nothing other than what I said : that the BJP project is not only to change colonial names but also to change other names . <p> These facts do not come with ideology or race or anything else . They are just facts . Facts I learned while living with an Indian person for a year who just happens not to be an apologist for the excesses of the BJP . <p> That is the point you made and the refutation you ignore by posting completely unrelevent material . <p> Wth are you talking about ? In your sick and twisted mind is only British/Christian imperialism colonial and not muslim ? <p> You are basically saying that you lived with one indian for one year and that this somehow makes you an expert on the topic ? <p> Did you even read the links you posted , they were crying the erasure of Aurangzeb from our road infrastructure . <p> I educated you on the crimes of Aurangzeb and you called it irrelevant . I am not an apologist for the BJP nor do I believe they are engaging in excess . <p> In my personal opinion , they are not even Hindu or traditional . <p> Is the murder of children and the execution of Saints an irrelevant matter to you now ? Is speaking out about the crimes of Muslims in the subcontinent , which are celebrated or whitewashed by the likes of you now an offence ? <p> Akbar considered himself a Ghazi for sending the Rajput infidels to hell . <p> -- <p> Your problem , and that of most whites is they hate that India did not convert en masse to western ideology like Africa did . The Turks hate us for the same reason . <p> We are to be told and not speak , seen but not heard . <p> That this thread continues , using obviously bias english language sources such as Al-Jazeera , to mock and decry any attempts at enforcing a taboo against advocating Hindu genocide should show you the real face of the west . <p> ' Machine guns on the streets of India mow down thousands of poor women and children wherever your so-called flag of democracy and Christianity flies . ' - Sardar Udham Singh <p> You 're also displaying your euro-centric white supremacist worldview when you assume that a colonial name means only a european , white , christian one . : ) <p> Stop telling people what their problem is . It makes the rest of your post unreadable and undesireable . <p> I justify nothing other than what I said : that the BJP project is not only to change colonial names but also to change other names . <p> These facts do not come with ideology or race or anything else . They are just facts . Facts I learned while living with an Indian person for a year who just happens not to be an apologist for the excesses of the BJP . <p> That is the point you made and the refutation you ignore by posting completely unrelevent material . <p> Wth are you talking about ? In your sick and twisted mind is only British/Christian imperialism colonial and not muslim ? <p> You are basically saying that you lived with one indian for one year and that this somehow makes you an expert on the topic ? <p> Did you even read the links you posted , they were crying the erasure of Aurangzeb from our road infrastructure . <p> I educated you on the crimes of Aurangzeb and you called it irrelevant . I am not an apologist for the BJP nor do I believe they are engaging in excess . <p> In my personal opinion , they are not even Hindu or traditional . <p> Is the murder of children and the execution of Saints an irrelevant matter to you now ? Is speaking out about the crimes of Muslims in the subcontinent , which are celebrated or whitewashed by the likes of you now an offence ? <p> You sit atop a white horse and preach to the brown man that in the name of Gandhi he should n't defend himself . <p> Yet , we are sons of Guru Gobind Singh . <p> If struck with a stone , strike back with a boulder . <p> ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? <p> You were speaking in terms of modern colonialism with the comparison of name changes then when called out that India is not doing this just to English names you riased the idea of Muslim colonialism . Islam arrived in India in the 12th century . You really trying to compare it to the British in India ? <p> I called you out when you said it was the same as the other examples . What I said was irrelevant is all the stuff that you posted that has nothing to do with that . <p> You do n't know me at all and that is okay . I never said all I know about India came from a person I lived with for a year . I said the issue of name changes in India was made known to me by him . <p> There is a difference and you are skating all over the road to try to defend a comparison you made that is not valid . <p> I am not debating with you the merits of the name changes . I am merely saying that you were being disengenuous when pretending that India is only changing colonial names like other countries have . This is what you said . All the gory pictures you posted do not change the fact that what you said was the same is not at all the same . 
@@51242848 <p> " A resolution has been submitted to the NDP Convention to update the NDP 's policy on Palestine . Despite widespread support - 26 riding associations in six provinces voted to endorse it -- this resolution was assigned an impossibly low priority in the listing of foreign affairs resolutions for discussion at Convention . <p> It 's a familiar pattern from what should be a bygone era when NDP candidates selected by riding associations were swept aside by headquarters because of their views on Palestine . To enable the Palestine Resolution to reach the floor , be discussed and voted on , delegates need to go to the priority-setting panel on foreign affairs early on February 16 at the Convention in Ottawa . <p> NDP members across the country who care about democracy and human rights for Palestinians as much as for anyone else need to let Canadian delegates know that the time for change is long overdue . Supporters can follow and share #PalestineResoNDP on social media to help spread the word . " <p> " The NDP establishment narrowly stopped a resolution on Israel-Palestine from being debated at the party 's convention this weekend . Resolution called for a settlement boycott , and end to the occupation , and stronger support for Palestinian rights ... " <p> " In a massive setback for Canada 's anti-Israel camp a resolution aiming to eliminate Israel as a Jewish State will not be voted on by NDP ... " <p> " NDP youth delegates Gachi Issa &amp; Sabreina Dahab tell CPAC they want to hear more from leader Jagmeet Singh re Israel/Palestine : ' I think that the conversations are happening - and I just want them to happen here ... " <p> OTTAWA -- Independent Jewish Voice Canada is frustrated by anti-democratic steps taken by the NDP establishment to block a strong resolution supporting Palestinian rights from reaching the convention floor for debate . Instead , a much weaker resolution , which reflects the existing position the party has taken on Israel-Palestine , will be debated . <p> Despite obtaining the official support of 26 riding associations in six provinces -- more than any other resolution -- the Palestine Resolution was ranked 37th out of 45 foreign policy resolutions by the Party 's undemocratic prioritization committee . By comparison , the top ten resolutions selected in the same category received a combined total of only 17 endorsements . <p> " In what was an extremely tight vote , NDP members have shown our strongest support for Palestinian rights in history , " said NDP member and IJV spokesperson Genevi ? ve Nevin . " The fervor around this resolution shows the clear split between the party 's grassroots -- especially its younger members -- and the party establishment . " <p> The resolution was endorsed unanimously at the Young New Democrats convention on Thursday . It was also supported by MP Niki Ashton , former MP Libby Davies and notable figures , including prominent academic Alain Deneault and activist Rabbi David Mivasair . <p> " It is clear that the party establishment did not want this resolution to pass , so they ranked it near the bottom of the list and stacked the re-prioritization room with party operatives , including members of the caucus who voted against it , " said Nevin . <p> Besides the Palestine resolution , which called for banning products made in Israel 's illegal settlements in the occupied West Bank from Canada , a total of twelve other resolutions supporting Palestinian rights were passed by riding associations across the country . <p> " We are disappointed that the party 's commitment to Love and Courage still does not extend to Palestinians , " continued Nevin . " But we will continue to build the momentum we 've gained from this tremendous national effort . The party establishment may have succeeded in blocking efforts to support Palestinian rights for now , but they will not be able to hold back the tide of justice forever . " <p> IJV would like to thank all those who participated in this wonderful effort by supporting it at their riding associations , contacting their MPs , and attending the convention . <p> And of course what little time was alloted for policy discussion was used up by people speaking on the resolutions that everybody already agreed with anyways . I always found that frustrating . If we all agree on the resolution , why not just vote in favour and move on ? It 's the resolutions where there is no strong consensus that need discussion , debate , and clarification . <p> But do n't worry brothers and sisters , our true socialist comrades to the east carrying the torch of socialism anti imperialism is on the job and will succeed where so called fake pro social anti imperial so call political paries have failed miserably out of fear of failure ! <p> our true socialist comrades to the east carrying the torch of socialism anti imperialism is on the job and will succeed where so called fake pro social anti imperial so call political paries have failed miserably out of fear of failure ! <p> At first I thought you must mean China , but they 've got the fastest growing middle class in the world , two different stock markets , and their millionaires seem to send their kids to Canadian schools , and invest in everything from rare artworks to Vancouver property . <p> So which " true socialist comrades " are you referring to ? Cuba would be to the South . Do you mean DPRK ? They identify as " juche " . <p> Can anybody here actually JUSTIFY the NDP refusing to allow the resolution to even be debated ? What 's the point of preventing that ? At this stage of the game , the people who make a big show of being " pro-Israel " are almost all hopelessly right-of-center now-they would n't vote NDP if it came of in favor of letting Netanyahu annex the banks of the Euphrates . <p> In the waning hours of the NDP policy convention 's second day dozens of delegates stood in silence with hands raised holding posters proclaiming " Free Palestine " as they protested what some called a " watered down " resolution on Israel-Palestine relations during a tense and lengthy stand-off that involved more procedural wrangling than discussion . <p> It was the only resolution of 22 discussed Saturday during four hours of debate to garner heated objections on either side . Third up in the last session , the resolution that called on the NDP to condemn violations on " both sides in this conflict " took up nearly the whole hour , mainly with points of order and referrals rather than debate on the substance of the issue . <p> All microphones on the floor were packed with members wanting to speak to the issue , with charges that those opposed were being blocked from getting their chance to debate on the floor . Several times delegates " called the question " or tried to refer to committee , which members complained was undemocratic and a common tactic to avoid debate . About 60 members stood throughout and later protested at the back of the room after the motion passed . <p> Sam Hersh said he 's been called a " self-hating Jew " for his stance on Palestine , and argued the " watered down " resolution before the floor did " nothing to substantially address Israel 's " human rights violations . " <p> " Criticizing the Israeli government is not anti-Semitism , " said Mr. Hersh , who said they had been " blocked every step of the way " in trying to debate the issue . <p> Can anybody here actually JUSTIFY the NDP refusing to allow the resolution to even be debated ? What 's the point of preventing that ? At this stage of the game , the people who make a big show of being " pro-Israel " are almost all hopelessly right-of-center now-they would n't vote NDP if it came of in favor of letting Netanyahu annex the banks of the Euphrates . <p> Maybe the motivation was done not so much out of a pro-Israeli bias specifically , but to avoid " divisive conflict " on the convention floor . <p> The motivation in any case is irrelevant . The bigger issue at play is that there are far more resolutions that come to federal convention than the party can possibly get through in the short time that they meet . There is also an issue with what is the best way to decide which resolutions get priority and which ones do n't . Keep in mind that this is a precious balancing act . The convention simply can not get to all the resolutions , so by definition someone is always going to be unhappy with the result . In 2006 , I actually got my constituency association to support a resolution on Net Neutrality , only to see that support among delegates when I attended the prioritization panel was simply not there to help me move it up the queue . How do you manage that ? That is also complicated by the fact that the few resolutions that make it to the floor are often widely supported by those there , and time is wasted by delegate after delegate after delegate speaking at the mikes to say , " yay , this is a good resolution . " So whether it is on Israel specifically , or Harper 's age-of-consent law when I was in Quebec City in ' 06 , the system that 's in place tends to weed out the more contentious resolutions . <p> The NDP 's foreign critic has begun challenging Canada 's contribution to Palestinian dispossession . H ? l ? ne Laverdi ? re has repeatedly criticized the Trudeau government 's silence on Donald Trump 's decision to move the U.S. Embassy to Jerusalem . In response she tweeted , " a devastating day for those who believe in peace , justice and security in the Middle East . Where is Canada 's voice in protest of Trump 's decision on #Jerusalem ? I urge Canada to condemn this decision in the strongest of terms . " <p> Laverdi ? re also asked the federal government to condemn Israel 's detention of 16-year-old Ahed Tamimi and hundredsof other Palestinian children who are usually tortured by Israeli forces . Similarly , she has pressed Ottawa to properly label products from illegal Israeli settlements and submitted a petition to Parliament calling " upon the Government of Canada to demand that Israel immediately and completely cease all settlement activities in the occupied Palestinian territory , including East Jerusalem . " <p> " We had a well-worded resolution on justice for Palestine that had 37 riding associations supporting it that was buried , " said NDP MP , and former Singh rival , Niki Ashton . <p> " That was very frustrating for a lot of our activists and for me , and I think what we 've seen over the weekend is that people are n't willing to put up with that way of doing things . That members want to be heard and want to have a say in what issues have priority . " <p> The reality is that members voted for the status quo with Singh ( see Cullen 's strong support of Singh during the campaign ) , who I 've never heard say a word about making the party more democratic to members . <p> I was asked in another thread what were some of the things I 'd like changed in the NDP : this procedure that allows the leadership to bury resolutions it 's uncomfortable with is one . There 's simply no good reason for it anymore . <p> What about the leadership ignoring and violating convention resolutions ? Or ( like the ONDP ) removing the convention policy book from the website in order to issue an election platform that contradicts it ? <p> Barring discussion at convention is bad . But the main reason I left the NDP way back when was the futility of passing anything at convention . The big shots carried on currying favour with power , and the members carried on making a million excuses as to why we should keep our mouths shut for the sake of ... solidarity ? Not airing our dirty laundry in front of the neighbours ? Who knows . All I know is that absolutely nothing has changed . <p> Which reminds me to write to Alexandre Boulerice and give him shit . After taking gutsy stands on Gaza etc. when Mulcair was capitulating ( and when then , as now , the youth wing was being very courageous ) , he now appears to have been part of the cabal which struck down the Palestine resolution . He either needs more support - or less . Up to him . <p> It would be one thing if all of this caution were in defence of a clearly socialist or at least clearly social democratic CORE set of values , principles and proposals that were never going to be compromised away , no matter what . <p> But it 's not in defense of a core of ANYTHING . <p> You get the feeling that a lot of " insiders " in the federal party , so long as the the party won " power " in name and people with a bit of orange accessorizing in their wardrobe got to spend four years being the cabinet , would be fine with a federal replication of what Romanow did in Saskatchewan or with an NDP prime minister lowering him- or herself to imitating Mike Harcourt 's despicable attacks on " welfare mothers " . <p> And would leave corporate efforts to further weaken what remains of the labour movement totally unchallenged . <p> ? And would be perfectly happy to have Canadian troops invading MORE Arab/Muslim countries in more wars for oil . <p> So long as they got to be part of " the club " , it looks as though some of these " insiders " would be just fine with all of that-and with the party 's usual tendency to spend more time demonizing the left than it ever does standing up to the neoliberal center-right . <p> Is there any reason rank-and-file NDP supporters SHOULD N'T harbor such suspicions ? <p> And would be perfectly happy to have Canadian troops invading MORE Arab/Muslim countries in more wars for oil . <p> In which wars has Canada recently scored free oil ? <p> Strawman . It 's not about " free oil " ... it 's about the idea that every oil-producing country HAS to be put under control of the West . Oil ( and other extractive-based commodities ) were the only real reasons the West militarily intervened in Iraq , Afghanistan , and Libya . <p> " We had a well-worded resolution on justice for Palestine that had 37 riding associations supporting it that was buried , " said NDP MP , and former Singh rival , Niki Ashton . <p> " That was very frustrating for a lot of our activists and for me , and I think what we 've seen over the weekend is that people are n't willing to put up with that way of doing things . That members want to be heard and want to have a say in what issues have priority . " <p> The reality is that members voted for the status quo with Singh ( see Cullen 's strong support of Singh during the campaign ) , who I 've never heard say a word about making the party more democratic to members . <p> Excuse me , did an NDP MP just publicly defend the idea that the party take seriously that the " D " in its name stands for " Democratic ? " <p> Yay Niki ! Thank you for standing up for the members and for democratic principles . For far too long elected within the NDP have listened privately when these concerns were raised but carried on publicly as if nothing was wrong . We need people who will stand up for their principles no matter what . That 's why Jeremy Corbyn is well respected in Britain because he did just that within his own party when it lost its way . <p> " NDP Leader Jagmeet Singh is value-signalling ... On the weekend 's more controversial topic of Israel and Palestine , Singh also wanted to talk about his values rather than take a position . He declined to state how he would vote on a motion calling on Israel to end its settlement program and lift the Gaza blockade , and to ban all products in Canada from Israeli settlements . " <p> " ... In short , the NDP establishment is in no way different from that of the Liberal Party of Canada or the Conservative Party of Canada or of the US Democratic or Republican parties when it comes to the question of Palestinian rights ... Even the weakened amendment , introduced by Helen Laverdiere , representing what is more or less the status quo , was slowed down to have the clock run out so it could not be added . No one is fooled . Your establishment is on the wrong side of history . " <p> " ... True , only one resolution made it to the floor at the end of the day and it called for peace , which is nice . And most NDP executives and members likely abhor the radical left which is attempting to turn the party on its head . But the massive number of anti-Israel proposed resolutions can not be ignored . <p> They call for the ' labeling of settlement ' ( Jewish ) goods ; They denounce the move of the US embassy to Jerusalem ; They want to curtail Israel 's military and nuclear program ; They want to implement economic sanctions against the entire State of Israel and call disputed territories ' illegal ' ( an effort to criminalize the state ) . <p> Since the war against the Jews can not be won militarily or through terrorism , Israel 's enemies are working overtime to hijack political parties , twist their understanding of ' social justice ' and launch an economic , pseudo-academic , pseudo-scientific and cultural strangulation of this beautiful island of freedom in the Middle East ... It 's sad to see this happening to the NDP . <p> Addendum : FSWC is offering the NDP tolerance training classes either in our classroom or through the Tour for Humanity . " <p> I thought zionist ' tolerance-training ' was what the all expense-paid junkets to Israel taken by Jagmeet Singh , Laverdiere and lots of other Canadian politicians was for ... ? <p> Thought it might be something like that , but wanted to make sure . Those are scary voices-the one thing that 's hopeful is that more and more people in the Diaspora Jewish communities are distancing themselves from what Netanyahu and Co. are doing . I think it will end up that the last really hard-core defenders of the status quo there are the Christian Zionists-especially the ones who want to jumpstart the Last Days and are heavily into things like rebuilding the Temple-and whose end game is forcing the Jews to choose between conversion or death . <p> I keep hearing that , but the money , influence and support to the Zionist cause still flows from here to Israel in great quantity , Israeli/Canada ' cooperation ' grows on multiple fronts including big business and mutual ' security ' and The March For Israel gets bigger every year . And how optimistic can we be when in 2018 , after all the obvious savagery and warcrimes the NDP wo n't even pass a rather mild BDS motion framed largely by Jews . I do n't think Palestinians are prepared to wait until the diaspora is ready to stop supporting Israel either . As for ' conversion or death ' at the hands of the Christians , I would n't know , but my suggestion would be not to lose any sleep over it and to choose neither . <p> " ... And how did the left wing party respond ? When its proponents sought to push it up the priority list at an early morning session before the main plenary the party hierarchy blocked it . In a poorly publicized side room meeting they succeeded 200 to 189 . <p> NDP House Leader Guy Caron mobilized an unprecedented number of current and former MPs ; including Murray Rankin , Randall Garrison , Craig Scott , Tracey Ramsey , Alexander Boulerice , Helene Laverdiere , Nathan Cullen and others to vote against the most widely endorsed foreign policy resolution at the convention . <p> Why would the party establishment risk turning off so many young activists exactly the sort of members new leader Jagmeet Singh claims he wanted to attract ? <p> A quick look at some of the more prominent supporters of shutting down debate suggests an answer ... " <p> LOL . Really ? And what other human rights and tenents of international law are they willing to sacrifice in order to do that . <p> None at all . They do n't have the power to actually do or change anything and if they do n't get elected they never will . Even once elected they are there to represent the interests of all Canadians . <p> I strongly support BDS and I do n't think the government has any business condemning it but it is up to activists to promote until there is majority support because the government represents all Canadians . <p> Otherwise you are sacrificing everywhere advancement could be made for symbolism . <p> I 'm concerned about the world . I want us to be charitable . If we could put peacekeepers between the Israeli and Palestinians I would support it wholeheartedly . Having said that Canada is the jurisdiction where the Canadian government has ulmost unlimited power to do good . <p> Do you think FNs would advance faster under the NDP or another party ? There are many groups and issues right here in Canada that the NDP would have the ability to radically impact if they won power . <p> Just before the convention the President of the Windsor-Tecumseh Federal NDP , Noah Tepperman , sent out an email to all riding associations calling on them to oppose Palestine resolutions . In it he claimed , " boycotts based on religion , nationality or place of origin directly contravene the spirit of inclusiveness to which we in the NDP are committed . " <p> Where does it state that the government must represent the interests of all Canadians instead of just the interests of the Canadians that vote for them ? <p> Legally , once elected , the government represents all Canadians . Individuals , including the PM , may or may not have personal biases nevertheless their job is to balance what is best for Canada as a whole . <p> Where does it state that the government must represent the interests of all Canadians instead of just the interests of the Canadians that vote for them ? <p> Legally , once elected , the government represents all Canadians . Individuals , including the PM , may or may not have personal biases nevertheless their job is to balance what is best for Canada as a whole . <p> What law requires the government to balance what is best for Canada as a whole ? <p> " ... It was a shameful but not unexpected exhibition by Canada 's party of pretend socialists , who feign respect for international law and human rights as long as they do n't apply to the Palestinians . Canada 's pretend socialists can rationalize and obfuscate until their party 's signature orange turns blue , but ' balanced approach ' is also a polite euphemism for complicity . " <p> What law requires the government to balance what is best for Canada as a whole ? <p> " The Law of Re-Election " . <p> I take your point , though . Certainly the elected government " represents " us in the sense that if they sign something , we live by it , and if they screw up on the world stage , we ca n't get much traction saying " that does n't represent me because I did n't vote for them " . <p> But I agree no government has any special duty of care to throw in some sops to appease the other side . <p> What law requires the government to balance what is best for Canada as a whole ? <p> " The Law of Re-Election " . <p> I take your point , though . Certainly the elected government " represents " us in the sense that if they sign something , we live by it , and if they screw up on the world stage , we ca n't get much traction saying " that does n't represent me because I did n't vote for them " . <p> But I agree no government has any special duty of care to throw in some sops to appease the other side . <p> And I agree that " the law of re-election " is what leads governments to govern in the interests of voters . Unfortunately FPTP does not require a majority of voters to support a government 's re-election . The Conservative election machine operators have been open in saying that they target approximately just 29% of the electorate because that 's all they need in order to win a false FPTP majority government . The Conservatives have developed a sophisticated data system in order to bring out their core vote and suppress the vote of the rest of the electorate that make up a clear majority of voters . The Conservatives love FPTP because it allows them to win FPTP elections by just appealing to a minority of voters while the majority splits the vote . This is why their number one priority is keeping FPTP . <p> Unfortunately FPTP does not require a majority of voters to support a government 's re-election . The Conservative election machine operators have been open in saying that they target approximately just 29% of the electorate because that 's all they need in order to win a false FPTP majority government . <p> ? Two questions for you . <p> ? 1 . Has there ever been a majority government in Canada that had fewer votes than a losing party ? <p> ? 2 . Has their ever been a majority government in Canada that achieved their majority with 29% of the popular vote ? <p> Unfortunately FPTP does not require a majority of voters to support a government 's re-election . The Conservative election machine operators have been open in saying that they target approximately just 29% of the electorate because that 's all they need in order to win a false FPTP majority government . <p> ? Two questions for you . <p> ? 1 . Has there ever been a majority government in Canada that had fewer votes than a losing party ? <p> ? 2 . Has their ever been a majority government in Canada that achieved their majority with 29% of the popular vote ? <p> 1 . Here in BC in 1996 the BC NDP won a " majority " government even though they received fewer votes than the BC Liberals . In Quebec in 1998 the PQ won a " majority " government even though they received fewer votes than the QLP . Also in Quebec in 1996 , the Union Nationale won a " majority " government even though it received fewer votes than the QLP . I 'm not that ancient so I do n't remember if there were any " wrong winner " elections before that . In other FPTP countries there have been many FPTP " wrong winner " elections . <p> 2 . The 29% statistic was for the entire electorate not the popular vote . So for example , in 2011 the Conservatives won a " majority " government with the votes from just 24.3% of the electorate and just 39.6% of the popular vote . I used that statistic to show that under FPTP a majority government does not have to represent anywhere near the majority of the electorate in order to maintain majority rule . The upcoming provincial election in Quebec could see a party win government with just a third of the votes or even less , because many parties there are doing well at once . This may be why the four opposition parties in Quebec currently support electoral reform as FPTP only seems to regularly produce true majority governments when there are only two majour parties competing . 
@@51248839 <h> You are here <p> rabble blogs are the personal pages of some of Canada 's most insightful progressive activists and commentators . All opinions belong to the writer ; however , writers are expected to adhere to our guidelines . We welcome new bloggers -- contact us for details . <h> Harper wo n't help the children of Gaza <p> Good for the Harper government for facilitating the secret talks between a pig-headed Washington and Cuba 's geriatric " communist " dictatorship . Despite the widespread demoralization within the Department of Foreign Affairs , its officials , backed by the Prime Minister and Foreign Minister John Baird , demonstrated to the world exactly what kind of role Canada is capable of playing on the world stage . <p> Does this mean the government has finally come to its senses and decided to reflect the values most Canadians have long cherished ? After all , in his Christmas message , Stephen Harper emphasized that Canada was " a compassionate country " known around the world for " protecting the vulnerable , " and asked his fellow Canadians " to show kindness to the less fortunate . " This is not exactly how the government has normally rallied its base . Is there hope for a Harperland change of heart at this late date ? <p> Alas no . Not , at least , if it means enabling 100 severely injured children from Gaza to come to Canada for medical care . The proposal comes from Izzeldin Abuelaish , the Gaza doctor who lost three of his daughters when Israel bombed his home . <p> They were among the 1,300 Palestinians and 13 Israelis killed during the Israeli assault against Gaza in 2008-9 . Of the 13 Israelis , 10 were soldiers . Of the Palestinians , over half were civilians . 250 of them were younger than 16 . Four thousand Palestinian homes were destroyed , tens of thousands left homeless . In a subsequent operation in 2012 , four Israeli civilians and one soldier were killed , as were 158 Palestinians , about two-thirds of them civilians including 30 children . <p> This pattern has not varied in the so-called wars between Israel and Hamas . In last summer 's conflict , over 2,100 Palestinians were killed ; somewhere between 50 and 75 per cent were civilians . About 500 were children . More than 10,000 Palestinians were wounded , 2,700 of them children . 375,000 children were deemed to be traumatized , with no psychosocial support . 142 schools were damaged as were 22 hospitals and medical centres . A quarter of the entire population was displaced , their homes destroyed , refugees in their own land . <p> Hamas killed 66 Israeli soldiers and 5 Israeli civilians , including one child . Some 5,000 to 8,000 Israelis , fearing Hamas rockets , temporarily fled their homes but returned to find them intact . <p> Last August , Dr. Abuelaish , now living and working in Toronto , helpless to stop the latest conflict , believed that at the very least the world could relieve the suffering of some of its innocent victims . Medical facilities in Gaza are woefully inadequate . Maybe Ontario , with its rich supply of such facilities , could ease the burden just a little for 100 such children . He soon received commitments of support from the Premier of Ontario , the Ontario Minister of Health , the Registered Nurses Association of Ontario , the Canadian Medical Association , the five major children 's hospitals in Ontario including Sick Kids , health professionals and doctors who agreed to waive all fees , several media , trade unions , all three federal opposition parties , and 45,000 Canadians who signed an appeal . Israeli and Palestinian authorities also appeared willing to cooperate . <p> Sharp-eyed readers will observe one omission from this impressive list . The children and their parents or guardians , whom Dr. Abuelaish traveled to Gaza to identify , ca n't enter Canada without a visa from the Canadian government . The Canadian government refuses all co-operation . Although he is honoured around the world for his superhuman refusal to hate those who killed his children , no member of the Harper government has ever spoken to Dr. Abuelaish about his ordeal in general or his 100-children initiative . <p> Nor do they intend to . Last August , he again sought a meeting with Mr. Baird to discuss the proposal and received in reply an email from a Garry Keller to say he 'd been told " many times that Minister Baird is not available to meet . " And yet John Baird is available to meet countless people each week . Why does a good man like Izzeldin Abuelaish get spurned ? <p> While Dr. Abuelaish ensured that his initiative remain strictly humanitarian , the government has been steadfastly political . To any normal person , the extraordinarily lopsided casualties from the repeated Hamas-Israel clashes tell an unmistakable story . But as in so many things , the Harper government invents its own unshakeable truthiness . " Make no mistake , " emailed Adam Hodge , some other John Baird spokesperson , " there is only one party responsible for the suffering of the Palestinian people , and that is the international terrorist group Hamas . Hamas 's reckless aggression continues to put Palestinian lives at risk by impeding the delivery of humanitarian assistance to Gaza . " <p> What does this mean ? That Hamas was responsible for the Israeli bombs that blew up Dr. Abuelaish 's daughters in their own home ? That maimed Palestinian children should pay the price for Hamas ' deeds ? That caring for these children would somehow help Hamas ? <p> Here 's the more likely truth : It would be far harder for the Harper government to maintain their twisted interpretation of the Middle East in the face of 100 Gaza children whose burns , amputations , disfigurements and other appalling injuries were all inflicted by Israel . <p> So : Compassion ? Protecting the vulnerable ? Showing kindness to the less fortunate ? Sure -- as long as it fits the Harper government 's political agenda . Just more tough luck for the children of Gaza . <p> More people are reading rabble.ca than ever and unlike many news organizations , we have never put up a paywall -- at rabble we 've always believed in making our reporting and analysis free to all , while striving to make it sustainable as well . Media is n't free to produce . rabble 's total budget is likely less than what big corporate media spend on photocopying ( we kid you not ! ) and we do not have any major foundation , sponsor or angel investor . Our main supporters are people and organizations -- like you . This is why we need your help . You are what keep us sustainable . <p> rabble.ca has staked its existence on you . We live or die on community support -- your support ! We get hundreds of thousands of visitors and we believe in them . We believe in you . We believe people will put in what they can for the greater good . We call that sustainable . <p> So what is the easy answer for us ? Depend on a community of visitors who care passionately about media that amplifies the voices of people struggling for change and justice . It really is that simple . When the people who visit rabble care enough to contribute a bit then it works for everyone . <p> And so we 're asking you if you could make a donation , right now , to help us carry forward on our mission . Make a donation today . 
@@51253216 <h> Palestinian prez warns of gradual execution of US peace plan <p> Ramallah , Dec 7 ( IANS ) Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas warned of a gradual implementation of the US peace plan , known as the " Deal of the Century , " especially amid the ongoing Israeli measures in East Jerusalem . <p> Abbas , who chaired a meeting for Palestine Liberation Organization ( PLO ) Executive Committee , on Friday said that Israel is carrying on with its aggression on the Palestinian people , mainly in occupied Jerusalem , Xinhua news agency reported . <p> He slammed Israel for detaining four crew members of the official Palestine Television in Jerusalem who were released after being held for a few hours by the Israeli police . <p> The Palestinian News Agency WAFA quoted Abbas as saying that " we have agreements with the Israelis that all these institutions should be functioning normally like any other institution in the West Bank and Gaza . " <p> " Yet Israel prevents everyone from working , which confirms that the Deal of the Century is applied step by step , " said Abbas . <p> In December 2017 , US President Donald Trump recognized Jerusalem as the capital of the state of Israel and in May last year , he moved his country 's embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem , a move that outraged the Palestinians . <p> Abbas said that he opposes the establishment of the portable American hospital that will be inaugurated soon in northern Gaza Strip , close to the border with Israel . <p> " Any economic projects including the artificial island planned to be built off the Gaza Strip coast , which will have a seaport and an airport , are all rejected , " said Abbas . <p> The 85-year-old president slammed the Israeli settlement expansion in the southern West Bank city of Hebron , adding that " we ca n't keep silent for seeing such actions . " <p> He warned that if these actions go on and get implemented , all the written and agreed relationships between Palestinians and the Israelis and Americans will be annulled , adding that " we ca n't bear seeing them annexing our land while we are watching . " <p> Settlement is one of the most significant issues in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and it is one of the reasons for freezing the peace talks between the two sides that had stopped in 2014 . <p> Abbas also said that an agreement on holding elections with the Gaza-based factions is close , but the issue that remains is how to hold it in East Jerusalem . <p> " Now after overcoming the issue with Gaza and our arrangement with them , there remains another essential issue , which is East Jerusalem , because elections must be held in the West Bank , East Jerusalem and Gaza , " said Abbas . <p> " But , if , for any reason , the residents of East Jerusalem were unable to participate in the elections , we will come back to this table to decide what we can do , " he added . <p> Bassam Salhi , a member of the PLO Executive Committee and secretary general of the Palestinian People 's Party , told Xinhua all factions have agreed to hold elections . <p> " There are a few things that need to be completed before that , and the general framework is to hold both parliamentary and presidential elections in the Palestinian territories , " Salhi said . <p> Meanwhile , the Palestinian Presidency said in an official press statement that it appreciates the decision of the US Congress made earlier Friday that backs the two-state solution to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . <p> " The US Congress Decision is a response to the wrong policies of the US administration , mainly the latest remarks of US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo , who said that Israeli settlement do n't violate the international law , " it said . <p> It added that " the decision is a clear message to the US administration and to Israel that peace can be only made through the establishment of an independent Palestinian state on the 1967 borders with East Jerusalem as its capital . " 
@@51275735 <h> Market News <h> Turkey adds former Palestinian politician Dahlan to most wanted list <p> ISTANBUL ( Reuters ) - Turkey has added exiled Palestinian politician Mohammed Dahlan to its " red list " of most-wanted terrorism suspects , offering a reward of up to 10 million lira ( $1.75 million ) for information leading to his capture , the Interior Ministry said on Friday . <p> Arrest warrants have been issued for Dahlan on accusations of playing a role in the 2016 attempted coup in Turkey , seeking to change the constitutional order by force , and various spying-related charges , the ministry said in a statement . <p> Dahlan has also recently been an outspoken critic of Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan . <p> Turkey accuses U.S.-based cleric Fethullah Gulen and his followers of carrying out the failed putsch of July 2016 , when rogue soldiers commandeered warplanes , tanks and helicopters in a bid to seize power in which some 250 people were killed . <p> Dahlan has lived in the United Arab Emirates since he was driven out of the Palestinian territories in 2011 after a row with Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas . <p> He was formerly an elected member of Abbas ' Fatah party central committee , and was a fierce foe of Hamas , the Islamist group that rules the Gaza Strip and which has forged close ties with Turkey . <p> Dahlan 's party condemned the Turkish move . <p> " The Democratic Reform Party in Fatah movement views the Turkish decision as a paid incitement to ... assassinate Palestinian leader Mohammed Dahlan , and announces its intentions to prosecute Erdogan 's regime inside and outside of Turkey , " it said in a statement . <p> Disclaimer : The views expressed in this article are those of the author and may not reflect those of Kitco Metals Inc . The author has made every effort to ensure accuracy of information provided ; however , neither Kitco Metals Inc. nor the author can guarantee such accuracy . This article is strictly for informational purposes only . It is not a solicitation to make any exchange in commodities , securities or other financial instruments . Kitco Metals Inc. and the author of this article do not accept culpability for losses and/ or damages arising from the use of this publication . 
@@51279303 <p> " British Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn has won this year 's honor of being named the Top Anti-Semite Person of 2019 by the Simon Wiesenthal Center . The decision was apparently not a difficult one . ' No one has done more to mainstream anti-Semitism into the political and social life of a democracy than the Jeremy Corbyn-led Labour Party , ' the LA-based center 's director Rabbi Marvin Hier told the British Daily Mail ... " <p> Are we prepared to let this same ever more powerful lobby continue to have its way with our politics and our politicians ? When do we say enough is enough ? <p> This was a despicable decision on the center 's part . Corbyn has never been an antisemite and did nothing to mainstream that form of bigotry . All he is is a non-Zionist . Opinions about Zionism , the Israeli government , and the treatment of Palestinians by the Israeli government are never antisemitic . <p> Are we prepared to let this same ever more powerful lobby continue to have its way with our politics and our politicians ? When do we say enough is enough ? <p> The Simon Wiesenthal Centre , whether in the U.S. or Canada , is among the worst of the right-wing fanatical pro-Israel lobbies . <p> But what makes you say they are " ever more powerful " ? What makes you say they have their way with our politics and our politicians ? What does " enough is enough " mean - banning them ? <p> My first impression of your over-the-top paranoid comment was how it resembles the usual " Jews run the world " tropes . Is it not possible to condemn and oppose their politics without suggesting that our poor little politicians are mere puppets being manipulated by some dark sinister force ? Because the puppet masters are the billionaire class . Not the Simon Wiesenthal Centre . <p> " A bill backed by Friends of Simon Wiesenthal Center ( FSWC ) calling on the government of Ontario to adopt the international definition of antisemitism was introduced to the legislature at Queen 's Park today . The private member 's bill was submitted by MPP Will Bouma and asks the Ontario legislature to officially adopt the definition of antisemitism offered by the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance ( IHRA ) . Simon Wiesenthal Center was part of the international consortium that drafted the definition and FSWC has backed efforts to see the definition adopted as law in Ontario . Legislative debate on the bill will begin in February 2020 ... " <p> " The problem for me ( and for many others who share my point of view ) is that I do , indeed , believe that the ' State of Israel is a racist endeavour ' and that this is fundamentally and irretrievably the case ... What I seek to win from you is an understanding that I am advancing a serious political point of view and whether you agree or disagree with it , there is no reasonable basis for deeming me something akin to a hate criminal ... " <p> They have actual neo-Nazis including a terrorist some years back in London who targeted Jews , people of colour and LGBT people . And they call the lifelong anti-racist Jeremy Corbyn the worst anti-semite ? <p> Hating people because they are Jewish is anti-semitic . Hating specific people who happen to be is not . Thinking not only of Benny but also Henry Kissinger , old bastard keeps on kicking . And the way the Israeli state has been treating Palestinians has very little to do with Jewish ethics . <p> Doubt there would be a court in the UK or the US that would side with the complainant in that suit . I think courts in the anglosphere generally hold that we 're free to speculate about sinister motivations of public figures , even with a lack of evidence . ( " Why did Trudeau fire Jody Wilson-Raybould ? ' Cuz he 's a fucking racist misogynist who ca n't stand having powerful First Nation women in his cabinet ! ! " I 've seen the basic gist of that one all over the place , even though there will likely never be any hard evidence produced . ) <p> Not that I think it really matters , since the Wiesenthal Center is pretty much a joke on most issues related to Israel/Palestine , but the Jewish Press article slightly distorts what they said ... <p> Jewish Press ... <p> British Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn has won this year 's honor of being named the Top Anti-Semitic Person of 2019 by the Simon Wiesenthal Center . <p> However , the Daily Mail article on which the Press bases its reporting does n't actually quote the Wiesenthal Center as calling Corbyn himself an anti-semite . The closest they get is to describe the " Corbyn-led Labour Party " as an " anti-semetic incident " , and then write ... <p> ' No one has done more to mainstream antisemitism into the political and social life of a democracy than the Jeremy Corbyn-led Labour Party . <p> ' Members and staff who have dared to speak out against the hate were purged , but not those who declared ' Heil Hitler ' and ' F*** the Jews . ' <p> You can read the rest of the Center 's post at the Mail 's homepage . <p> Granted , there is n't a lot of daylight between the cited quotes , and saying that Corbyn is an anti-semite . But still , if we are going to discuss a group 's comments , it 's good to be clear about what precisely they said . <p> " ... You have to ask yourself a simple ( and I have to underscore ) democratic question . By what right does this alien body , alien to the Labour Party , foreign to the Labour Party - by what right do these mostly unelected Jewish hoodlums - by what right do they dictate the internal policy of a democratically controlled party and democratically elected leadership ? These are pure mafia tactics . These are thugs and you do n't negotiate with thugs . You draw a line ... " <p> " ... Non-violent ' ideological ' anti-Semitism is also a danger , he warned . This includes denial of Israel 's right to exist and , ' it 's most sophisticated form , the laundering of anti-Semitism under universal values : The protection of the UN , the cover of international law , the culture of human rights and the struggle against racism . ' Cotler used the occasion to reiterate the Jewish community and others ' displeasure with Canada 's vote last month at the UN in favour of a resolution affirming Palestinians ' self-determination ... " <p> 1 . The Simon Wiesenthal Center is not a serious anti-racist organization . <p> 2 . They did not in fact call Corbyn the top anti-semite of the year . They ranked the prospect of a Labour government as the worst anti-semitic event of the year . As VoTD points out , these are not the same things and facts still matter . <p> 3 . SWC released this news early in an attempt to influence the UK election ( the rest of the list came out Dec. 18 ) . It is n't based on any actual research , it 's just a political poster . <p> 4 . Here are the comments that ranked only #10 - behind Rashida Tlaib 's support for BDS and an anti-IDF protest at York University : <p> Rick Wiles , a non-denominational , Florida-based pastor and popular radio host who promotes racist and anti-Semitic conspiracy theories , labeled the House impeachment proceedings against President Donald Trump a , " Jew coup " . In a November 21st video that went viral , Wiles declared , " That 's the way the Jews work . They are deceivers . They plot . They lie . They do whatever they 've had to do to accomplish their political agenda . " And , " Should the Jews take over the country , they will conduct a purge ... That 's the next thing that happens when Jews take over a country -- they kill millions of Christians . " <p> Now that 's anti-semitism . <p> 5 . I want to support Unionist 's concerns about the NDPP 's comments resembling ' the usual " Jews run the world " tropes . ' <p> Great post , swallow . RE : point 5 , would you or Unionist offer alternative wording that would not prompt these concerns ? I absolutely agree that the true puppetmasters are the billionaire class , and the strength/power of the " Jewish lobby " has been vastly exagerrated by paranoid anti-semites . How is it possible in today 's politics to talk about the existance of a pro-Israeli lobby and perhaps even debate it 's relative influence and power ( or discuss it 's recent " successes " , like the Corbyn smear or the adoption of the IHRA in various countries ) without bringing to mind the same tropes ? <p> Please believe me this is a genuine question , it may very well be an ignorant one , but if so I 'm being honestly ignorant here . I have been surprised recently by friends of mine who read and believed National Post coverage of the York University anti-semitism controversy , and found myself hesitant to engage . Any advice or comment you may have on this would be greatly appreciated . <p> RE : point 5 , would you or Unionist offer alternative wording that would not prompt these concerns ? <p> Nope . Not my job to rewrite antisemitic comments so as to make them appear less antisemitic . People should just tell the truth , based on facts . If anyone seriously believes that the Simon Wiesenthal Centre is " having their way " with our politicians , they should present some evidence - or else shut the fuck up . <p> Why do n't you address your question to NDPP ? He does n't appear to have acknowledged that he said anything wrong . Maybe he can convince us that what he said was factual . I 'm maintaining an open mind . <p> Are we prepared to let this same ever more powerful lobby continue to have its way with our politics and our politicians ? When do we say enough is enough ? <p> The Simon Wiesenthal Centre , whether in the U.S. or Canada , is among the worst of the right-wing fanatical pro-Israel lobbies . <p> But what makes you say they are " ever more powerful " ? What makes you say they have their way with our politics and our politicians ? What does " enough is enough " mean - banning them ? <p> My first impression of your over-the-top paranoid comment was how it resembles the usual " Jews run the world " tropes . Is it not possible to condemn and oppose their politics without suggesting that our poor little politicians are mere puppets being manipulated by some dark sinister force ? Because the puppet masters are the billionaire class . Not the Simon Wiesenthal Centre . <p> Indeed . I stand with Unionist on this . My remarks upthread should be taken purely as condemnation of the continuation of the AS slur against Corbyn , NOT as any endorsement of NDPP 's paranoia about the " Israel lobby " . <p> " ... You have to ask yourself a simple ( and I have to underscore ) democratic question . By what right does this alien body , alien to the Labour Party , foreign to the Labour Party - by what right do these mostly unelected Jewish hoodlums - by what right do they dictate the internal policy of a democratically controlled party and democratically elected leadership ? These are pure mafia tactics . These are thugs and you do n't negotiate with thugs . You draw a line ... " <p> These " alien " " Jewish thugs " must be stopped ! ! ! A line must be drawn ! ! ! ! They are the enemies of democracy ! ! ! ! ! ( Sounds like what was said in Germany circa 1936 . ) <p> If I 'm not mistaken , that 's Finkelstein being quoted there . I 'm guessing that , being Jewish , he maybe thinks he can use those words , sort of the way some black people think it 's okay for one of their own to call someone the n-word . <p> And I thought maybe the " hoodlums " thing was an echo of Vanessa Redgrave 's famous Oscar speech from the 70s ? ( Available on YouTube . ) <p> If I 'm not mistaken , that 's Finkelstein being quoted there . I 'm guessing that , being Jewish , he maybe thinks he can use those words , sort of the way some black people think it 's okay for one of their own to call someone the n-word . <p> Yeah , JKR , I would agree with VOTD here . Finkelstein is also the son of Holocaust survivors , and is a prolific , progressive , and controversial writer and speaker on that matter ( author of " The Holocaust Industry " , for example ) , and on Israel/Palestine . He 's allowed to talk that way - and however offensive it might sound , his remarks are likely factual . He 's calling on progressive people to resist that pressure - not the same at all as saying that some Jewish organization " has their way " with politics and politicians . <p> Another factor to remember is that some of the most hardline Likudists are n't Jewish at all , but fundamentalist Christians who believe in the " Rapture " and white nationalists who hate both Jews and Arabs and would like their own countries to be " cleansed " of them . <p> I stand by what I said . No Canadian politician will publicly support the Palestinian cause as Jeremy Corbyn does but instead remain silent . I wo n't . The Israel lobby grows more powerful and Canadian politicians weaker in opposing it . There is no shortage of examples . The outrageous open IDF recruitment in Toronto is one , and the treatment and smearing of Ant-Zionist protesters for protesting IDF personnel at York is another . Jagmeet Singh 's active suppression of a mild BDS resolution in Convention is another . This support for Apartheid Israel must end just as it was made to end in the case of Apartheid South Africa . BDS should become a national policy and all organizations supporting and promoting Israel* should be banned . <p> " Israel is the heart and soul of Canadian Jewry in general and of the Toronto community in particular and in fact is the strongest source of unity among Canadian Jews - and a central element in Jewish identity here . ' The speaker is Adam Minsky , President and CEO of *UJA Federation of Greater Toronto ... ' We want to help Israel become stronger , because when you are stronger , we are stronger ... Israel 's ambassador to Canada , Nimrod Barkan describes the Canadian Jewish Community , ' if in the US the Jews often look down on Israel , in Canada they look at Israel with admiration . The community 's attitude toward Israel is like that of a loving son .. " <p> " I came here to thank you for your support for Israel . Canada supports us also because of you and because of their relations with you and because of your ability to make the case for the Zionist movement in the Land of Israel . " - Reuven Rivlin , President of Israel , April , 2019 <p> " I act as legal counsel to SAIA . As I explained in my latest blog post , my clients have issued to the administration of York University a demand that the racist Herut Canada and the Jewish Defence League be banned permanently from campus . " <p> All Canadian politicians in favour say ' aye ' .... ( crickets ) Guess which side this minister is most likely to take ? <p> Um , no . And it 's not because I think opposing Isreal is anti-semitic ( I do n't think that for one second ) , just that I think it 's a pretty clear constitutional right for a group to say they like a particular country , without having the cops kick down their door the next day . <p> As for Toronto being " the most Zionist city in the world " , it 's quite possible that Israel is more popular there than in numerouso other places ( eg . QAIA never seemed to cause much stir when tbey marched in Edmonton Pride ) . But you should also keep in mind that , an Israeli politician , seeking to appeal to a pro-Israel audience in Toronto , might very well pander to local pride by saying " You guys here in Toronto are the best ! " , just because devotees of a particular ideology often like hearing that their beloved home-region is the No. 1 place for that ideology . <p> AMERICAN LIBERAL : I wish we had a progressive leader , like that cool guy Trudeau up in Canada . <p> My general impression is that Jews in the U.S. are far more critical of Israel than Jews in Canada and the UK . Whether that 's because they 're more numerous , secure or diverse , I do n't know . Or maybe because Christian Zionists are far more numerous and influential . And there 's nothing non-Orthodox U.S. Jews detest more than the Bible belt fundys . <p> My general impression is that Jews in the U.S. are far more critical of Israel than Jews in Canada and the UK . Whether that 's because they 're more numerous , secure or diverse , I do n't know . Or maybe because Christian Zionists are far more numerous and influential . And there 's nothing non-Orthodox U.S. Jews detest more than the Bible belt fundys . <p> Possibly , also that US foreign-policy is more directly tied to Israel than Canada 's is . So , you have ( for examaple ) more politicians saying stuff like " Israel is a beacon of hope for Jewish people around the world " , which might prompt some American Jews to think more critically about the validity of such statements . <p> Related to that , of course , the US sends a lot of foreign-aid to Israel . Not sure what Canada 's aid to Israel is as a percentage of government spending , but I would bet that it 's far less than what the US spends . I 'm open to any information someone may have on that . <p> " I act as legal counsel to SAIA . As I explained in my latest blog post , my clients have issued to the administration of York University a demand that the racist Herut Canada and the Jewish Defence League be banned permanently from campus . " <p> All Canadian politicians in favour say ' aye ' .... ( crickets ) Guess which side this minister is most likely to take ? <p> Is n't it the general principle of academic freedom , enunicated on these forums numerous times , that politicians and elected officials should not weigh in on which groups are allowed to operate or speak on campus ? <p> I gather that Students Against Israeli Apartheid is a campus-based group , so they are well within their rights to engage in debate about which groups are allowed onto the university 's space . But politicians , especially if part of the government and hence having control over the funding of higher-education , are expected to stay out of such discussions . <p> How is it possible in today 's politics to talk about the existance of a pro-Israeli lobby and perhaps even debate it 's relative influence and power ( or discuss it 's recent " successes " , like the Corbyn smear or the adoption of the IHRA in various countries ) without bringing to mind the same tropes ? <p> Not for me to say , but I sugest an effort not to use the same tropes . Anti-racism resources abide in the anti-racism forum . <p> NDPP wrote : <p> I stand by what I said . No Canadian politician will publicly support the Palestinian cause as Jeremy Corbyn does but instead remain silent . I wo n't . The Israel lobby grows more powerful and Canadian politicians weaker in opposing it . There is no shortage of examples . The outrageous open IDF recruitment in Toronto is one , and the treatment and smearing of Ant-Zionist protesters for protesting IDF personnel at York is another . Jagmeet Singh 's active suppression of a mild BDS resolution in Convention is another . This support for Apartheid Israel must end just as it was made to end in the case of Apartheid South Africa . BDS should become a national policy and all organizations supporting and promoting Israel* should be banned . <p> Not what you said . <p> There are Canadian politicians who support the Palestinian cause . I think you mean the leadership of all parties . <p> Thanks for the totalitarian call to ban freedom of association . <p> voice of the damned wrote : <p> Related to that , of course , the US sends a lot of foreign-aid to Israel . Not sure what Canada 's aid to Israel is as a percentage of government spending , but I would bet that it 's far less than what the US spends . I 'm open to any information someone may have on that . <p> Close to zero . Canada 's total development aid is about 0.25% of GDP , roughly $6 billion a year . A total of $14 million has gone to Israel and the occupied territories in recent years , mostly through the UN for relief work in Gaza . Here 's the breakdown of closed and current projects : <p> Assistance to Displaced Populations in the Middle East and North Africa - UNHCR 2009 $500,000.00 <p> Improving the Lives of Refugees in Gaza $12,000,000.00 UNRWA - United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East <p> Participatory Engagement on Water Issues in the Hebron-Negev-Gaza Watershed $667,549.12 EcoPeace Middle East <p> Talking Peace in Israel and the West Bank $975,431.00 Mishkenot Shaananim <p> If I 'm not mistaken , that 's Finkelstein being quoted there . I 'm guessing that , being Jewish , he maybe thinks he can use those words , sort of the way some black people think it 's okay for one of their own to call someone the n-word . <p> I could find a quote by an African-American that uses the n-word to criticize African-Americans but I think it would be racist if I did that since I am not an African-American and the n-word supports racism . I think if a person uses a quote to make a point they should stand behind the point they are making through the use of that quote . I think NDPP agrees with the " Jewish hoodlums " quote he used to criticize some Jews . I think anti-Semites could use that quote to bolster anti-Semitism . I think criticism of the State of Israel should use the term " Zionism " instead of the term " Jewish . " <p> If I 'm not mistaken , that 's Finkelstein being quoted there . I 'm guessing that , being Jewish , he maybe thinks he can use those words , sort of the way some black people think it 's okay for one of their own to call someone the n-word . <p> I could find a quote by an African-American that uses the n-word to criticize African-Americans but I think it would be racist if I did that since I am not an African-American and the n-word supports racism . I think if a person uses a quote to make a point they should stand behind the point they are making through the use of that quote . I think NDPP agrees with the " Jewish hoodlums " quote he used to criticize some Jews . I think anti-Semites could use that quote to bolster anti-Semitism . I think criticism of the State of Israel should use the term " Zionism " instead of the term " Jewish . " <p> Agreed . None of the issues with Israel have anything to do with Jewish identity or with Judaism as religion(s) or culture(s) . They are all related to the fact that the state and the ideology behind it have degenerated into nothing more than bigoted , militaristic reactionary nationalism . <p> " ... How long must Palestinians and their supporters endure this disrespect and lack of due diligence from so many institutions in Canada ? Why are a few Zionist voices given so much more credibility than other voices ... ? " <p> " Discussing relations between Israel and the Diaspora - two branches of the same tree - with UJA Federation and CIJA . Impressed with the wonderful Jewish Community of Toronto . Here with our guest Ambassador Zui Vapni , Head of North American Bureau at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs , Israel . " <p> " Discussing relations between Israel and the Diaspora - two branches of the same tree - with UJA Federation and CIJA . Impressed with the wonderful Jewish Community of Toronto . Here with our guest Ambassador Zui Vapni , Head of North American Bureau at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs , Israel . " <p> That 's a pretty self-serving quote from the Consul General , claiming that Israel and the worldwide Jewish community are one and the same . I trust the reason you posted that is because you want us to know how wrong she is . <p> And does anybody else think the headline phrase " Top Anti-Semite " is an epically weird phrase ? It makes it sound like you 'd be the " Employee Of The Month " of hate ... like they should put out a sheet cake covered with swastikas in honor of you in the break room or something ... <p> Still goes without saying that Corbyn did nothing to deserve that particular slander , though . <p> Okay weighing in here . NDPP , this is not your first anti-semitism rodeo . Many will recall that you characterized Israelis as Nazis , for which you were censured . This is n't much different . You need to limit your criticisms to Zionists , not Jews , because the two are not synonymous . Use phrases like " Jewish hoodlums " again and I will bounce your ass out of here . <p> Another factor to remember is that some of the most hardline Likudists are n't Jewish at all , but fundamentalist Christians who believe in the " Rapture " and white nationalists who hate both Jews and Arabs and would like their own countries to be " cleansed " of them . <p> And the part of the " Last Days " those Evangelical Likudniks like the best is the part are Jews are forced to choose between conversion to Christianity or death . Never understand why anybody anywhere would ally themselves with people who essentially wanted them to be killed if they did n't agree to stop being who they are . <p> The only people who can use the term the Jewish state appear to be the fascist Israeli government everyone else is an anti-Semite . What a bizarro world where Israel can proudly proclaim itself to be the Jewish homeland and purport to speak for the Jewish world but anyone else using the term Jewish to describe them is an anti-Semite . Even on babble , like in the NDP , the linguistic box that one is allowed to discuss the fascist state of Israel in is very narrow and driven by the fear of the despicable people who run that apartheid state that orders the murderer of innocent Palestinians like they were Germans in the 1940 's . <p> Okay weighing in here . NDPP , this is not your first anti-semitism rodeo . Many will recall that you characterized Israelis as Nazis , for which you were censured . This is n't much different . You need to limit your criticisms to Zionists , not Jews , because the two are not synonymous . Use phrases like " Jewish hoodlums " again and I will bounce your ass out of here . <p> NDPP wrote : <p> The quote is Dr Norman Finkelstein 's . Your characterization of this and my other postings here as ' anti-semitic ' is wrong , offensive and unfortunately illustrative of how the power relations actually are . I will continue to post dissenting views of Apartheid Israel and its support despite the smears and slanders of the confused and conflicted who would impose their own version of IHRA . <p> No one is saying you ca n't post " dissenting views " . You just need to make a clear and absolute distinction between Zionists , on the one hand , and people who simply happen to be Jewish on the other . Not that hard to do . 
@@51279435 <p> " According to a readout of the call from the White House , the two leaders agreed on the importance of deepening the ' already strong ' bilateral relationship between Canada and the US and committed to strengthening joint efforts to promote trade and to combat terrorism and climate change ... " <p> Impressive move for the very first day . Many Canadians have not been able to feel proud of Canada for quite some time , and Justin knows this , and he 's sending a message . Not to mention a swift kick in the * to the outgoing ones . <p> " ... On the agenda will be an end to Canadian bombing in Iraq and Syria , the resettlement of 25.000 Syrian refugees , the legalization and regulation of marijuana , and immediate consultation with the provinces ahead of the UN 's climate change conference in Paris , now only 6 weeks away . <p> He has appointed *Peter Harder , president of the Canada-China Business Council and a former deputy minister of foreign affarirs from 2003 to 2007 to lead his transition team . Mr Harder has , in the past , called on the government to engage in free trade talks with China . Embassy named him one of the top 80 influencers in Canadian foreign policy in 2013 ... " <p> " ... In 2008 , Peter Harder was elected President of the Canada-China Business Council ( CCBC ) . He also serves on the Board of Directors of the Canada-Eurasia-Russia Business Association ( CERBA ) and is a member of the International Institute for Strategic Studies ( IISS ) <p> " Dentons is a multinational law firm and the world 's largest law firm . Dentons has 120 offices covering North America , Europe , the Middle East , Central Asia , China , Singapore , North Africa and South Africa .. " <p> " Elliot Portnoy is an American attorney and the Global Chief Executive Officer of Dentons - a law firm that launched March 28 , 2013 ... Portnoy was named the top DC lawyer in the category of ' Lobbying Law ' by the Washington Business Journal . He was also recognized as one of the nation 's top lobbyists by Washington magazine , which also credited him for the growth of Sonnenschein 's lobbying practice . Denton 's has been rated one of the world 's top 20 Global Elite law firms ... " <p> " Joe Andrew serves as the global chair of the law firm SNR Dentons ... is an American politician and lawyer . He was named chairman of the Democratic National Committee ( DNC ) from 1999 to 2001 . During the 2008 Democratic nominating contest he was one of the first to endorse Senator Hillary Clinton in November 2007 . However , on May 1 , 2008 , he switched his endorsement from Clinton to Senator Barack Obama . " <p> " A paid consultant for the Energy East pipeline stood just a few feet away from Prime Minister-elect John Trudeau Monday night as he made his victory speech in Montreal . <p> For at least three years , Phil Fontaine has acted as the principal liason between TransCanada - the company behind the proposed $12 billion pipeline project and - about 150 First Nations communities across Canada . <p> " ... He has a fantastic team of advisors and staff ( many of whom are Jewish ) who understand that the Jewish community reflects the very best of Canada ... and who understand the profound shared values between Canada and Israel . He has a number of MPs in his caucus who are proudly Jewish and supportive of Israel . <p> The Liberal Party has only been supportive of Israel in the past and has not yet done or said anything to indicate a weakening of that support . Justin Trudeau himself has spoken repeatedly in support of Israel and against the BDS movement . <p> The Canadian Jewish community has a strong voice in Canadian politics and if we use our voice constructively , we can encourage political support for the causes we hold dear . We have a new leader in Justin Trudeau who has expressed his unwavering support of Israel time and again , and whose staff , advisors and caucus members are attuned to the needs and interests of the Jewish community . <p> Let 's embrace this new leader , let 's appreciate the stance he has taken in support of Israel and let 's continue to strengthen the relationship between Canadian Jewry and the Prime Minister of Canada . " <p> " The US ambassador has hinted that Washington may try to convince the incoming Liberal government to maintain a combat mission against ISIS , even though prime minister-designate Justin Trudeau has vowed to end it . <p> Heyman said the US and Canada are at record levels of trade and they had just signed the Trans Pacific Partnership trade deal . <p> Yes , that 's the way of their little contests I 'm afraid ... His high-scool drama teacher background will be more than up to the task ahead . Enough to convince enough of the audience . And where it is n't there 's advisors . Rest assurred the guy on the bus from big oil was just the tip of the iceberg . <p> " Still basking in the glow of victory , Justin Trudeau and his inner circle have already begun the complex business of transitioning to power . Don Bourdria said the transition team - led by Peter Harder and said to include trusted campaign advisers Gerry Butts , Katie Telford and Cyrus Reporter - will work out a detailed strategy for the days ahead , from crafting the structure and mandate of the cabinet and proposing a date to recall parliament and deliver a throne speech , to listing off names of political senior staff . <p> Former Liberal deputy prime minister Sheila Copps , who is now travelling in Asia , says the Liberal win is being celebrated across Canada and abroad . She believes ' big change ' is on the way . ' We will start talking about citizens again , instead of simply taxpayers . ' <p> " ... Will Justin Trudeau change things ? Not likely . He supports the same business as usual agenda , backs US policy in Ukraine , its anti-Russia militancy and Israeli occupation harshness , abhorrently saying , ' it has a right to defend itself and its people , ' ignoring its ruthless state terror . <p> Campaigning , he said if elected prime minister he 'll tell off Putin ' directly to his face ' - calling him ' dangerous ' in Ukraine and Eastern Europe , ' irresponsible and harmful ' in the Middle East and ' unduly provocative ' in the Arctic . ' Canada needs to stand strongly with the international community pushing back against the bully that is Vladimir Putin , ' he blustered during a Toronto campaign rally . <p> His economic advisers include Larry Summers - a defrocked Harvard University president , notoriously pro-Wall Street . Is Summers shaping Trudeau 's economic agenda ? The Financial Post business section of Canada 's National Post said a Trudeau win likely ' bodes well for Canadian stocks ' , - meaning his agenda is business friendly . <p> Expect Trudeau at best to be Harper light , pretending otherwise until voters realize they were had again ... " <p> " Within hours of the Liberals sweeping victory , the financial elite had taken the measure of the new government and set about giving its marching orders . The Toronto Stock Exchange welcomed the new government by rising Tuesday . Many business spokesmen said they were pleased that the Liberals have a majority and this will mean greater ' stability ' - in other words the government will have an even freer hand in defying the popular will . <p> The right-wing character of the incoming Liberal government is also exemplified by those Trudeau is reportedly preparing to name to his cabinet , when the government is formally sworn in November 4 . <p> As head of his transition team Trudeau has appointed Peter Harder , a former senior government official , who now serves on various corporate boards and is senior policy adviser to Dentons , the world 's largest law firm . Harder is also chairman of the Canada-China Business Council . " <p> " According to a readout of the call from the White House , the two leaders agreed on the importance of deepening the ' already strong ' bilateral relationship between Canada and the US and committed to strengthening joint efforts to promote trade and to combat terrorism and climate change ... " <p> What gets me about the Canada/US thing this time around is that a big part of Justin 's schtick was saying that he 'd do a better job of sucking up to Obama , and thus be more effective than Harper was at getting things like Keystone built . <p> As opposed to those " ominous drumbeat " ads the Liberals ran in the 2006 election , which implied that it was Harper who 'd be too close to the US , and the Liberals who 'd keep them at a distance . <p> ' Liberals took up a progressive mantle when the NDP failed to project a vision of environmental and social justice - now it 's up to the public to bend them to their will . ' lol ! <p> On Monday night many Canadians breathed out a sigh of relief . Then they breathed in a whiff of apprehension . The ousting of the Conservatives was a victory , a rejection of Stephen Harper 's politics of fear and outright hatred . <p> But Canadians now confront a Prime Minister gifted in the art of warm , fuzzy claptrap . <p> They wo n't be offered what they dreamed of : that was never an option in this election ... " <p> A battle between a tiny Nunavut hamlet and three companies carrying out seismic drilling in Arctic waters is shaping up to be Justin Trudeau 's first major environmental challenge . <p> The community of Clyde River filed its latest legal action with the Supreme Court of Canada just three days before the Oct. 19 election . The filing followed the Federal Court of Appeal 's rejection of a previous motion by the community -- against the National Energy Board 's ( NEB ) 2014 decision to allow oil exploration companies to conduct blast tests in Davis Strait along the coastline of Baffin Island . <p> quote : <p> Seismic blasts leaving animals deaf and injured <p> The immediate priority remains stopping the literally earth-shattering sounds of underwater blast cannons from devastating Arctic communities and the marine mammals that serve as their food source . Powerful shockwaves from blast guns can injure , kill , or disrupt the navigation patterns of those animals upon which the Inuit rely for food . <p> " Seismic blasts are loud -- in fact , they 're the second loudest man-made sound ever created , second only to the atomic bomb , " said Jessica Wilson , head of Greenpeace Canada 's Arctic campaign . <p> " I 'm opposed to the BDS movement . I think that it 's an example of the new form of anti-Semitism in the world ... " <p> Where does the Liberal party stand on Israel , and the balance between security for the Jewish state and peace with the Palestinians ? <p> We feel that the only way to achieve peace in this situation is a two-state solution of a secure , democratic , stable Israel alongside a secure , democratic , stable Palestinian state . And the way to achieve that is direct negotiations between the two parties . <p> It 's a process that is hindered by unilateral actions by either side , and we need to ensure that we are moving toward that two-state solution in a meaningful and responsible way . <p> Where do you stand on the boycott , divestment and sanctions ( BDS ) movement ? <p> I 'm opposed to the BDS movement . I think that it 's an example of the new form of anti-Semitism in the world , as Irwin Cotler points out , an example of the three " Ds " : demonization of Israel , delegitimization of Israel , and double standard applied toward Israel . <p> I 'm all for freedom of speech and expression in Canada , and we need to be sure we 're defending that . But when Canadian university students are feeling unsafe on their way to classes because of BDS or Israel Apartheid Week , that just goes against Canadian values . And I have said so , not just in news interviews , but in person on university campuses . <p> There are no political parties who would support BDS . It 's too one-sided . Trudeau does allow criticism of Israel . <p> Retired lieutenant-general Andrew Leslie was last seen making Conservative and Sun News heads explode with criticisms of Israel 's " indiscriminate " and " dumb " bombing of civilians in Gaza . But on Saturday at the general meeting of the Liberals ' Ontario wing in Markham , during a foreign policy session for delegates , Mr. Leslie did not talk like a man on a leash . <p> He did cede a question on Gaza to co-panelist Kirsty Duncan , the Liberals ' international development critic . But on Canada 's shuttered embassy in Tehran , he suggested the Conservatives are n't just uninterested in diplomacy , but hope to " exacerbate the situation ... as a way to either anger or get excited their base . " And on radicalized young men shipping out to fight for ISIS , he called it " a tragedy for the families that have lost their young men . " He stressed ISIS 's barbarism has nothing whatsoever to do with Islam . And he even dared mention the need to " deal with some of the root causes -- disaffection , disenfranchisement , whatever it might be . " <p> " Trudeau vowed during the campaign that one of his first priorities would be to end the RCAF commitment in the allied air compaign against for ! ISIS in Syria and Iraq . <p> Of course Trudeau did not specify an exact date as to when the RCAF contingent will pack up and fly home from Kuwait . Some have speculated that in order to appease Obama , Canada might keep our six-pack of CF-18 fighters in the Middle East until the one-year Parliament-approved mission expires in April <p> As a sop to the Americans , Trudeau has also promised to keep Canada in the fight against ISIS , albeit in a different capacity than simply launching combat air-strikes . <p> During the campaign the Liberals also vowed to cancel Canada 's participation in the purchase of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter . Trudeau stated categorically that , if elected , the Liberals would take this off the menu and seek a cheaper replacement aircraft for the CF-18 fleet . <p> For the new Liberal government , opting out of the fighter program for the sake of appeasing the electorate could have international repercussions of substantial consequence ... " <p> It will be interesting to see how soon he stops the bombing . If it 's abiding by Harper 's initiative to go until April , as the article suggests may happen , then that 's really not good enough . <p> The compromise that the article describes on the F-35 purchase sounds similar to what Mulcair had said about it . <p> Quote : <p> For the new Liberal government , opting out of the fighter program for the sake of appeasing the electorate could have international repercussions of substantial consequence . A compromise solution would be for Trudeau to put them back on the table and for the Canadian Armed Forces to conduct a fair and transparent competition to determine which aircraft will best suit the RCAF 's needs in the post-CF-18 era . <p> " There were no significant differences in foreign policy between these three leading parties in the election . All three support the civil war government in Kyiv , the big-power sanctions against Russia and the threatening war-moves of the NATO military alliance . " <p> For the new Liberal government , opting out of the fighter program for the sake of appeasing the electorate could have international repercussions of substantial consequence ... " <p> The SU-34 sounds like a good alternative . Twin engine , two seater , comes with a galley , a toilet and space to bunk for those long missions over the arctic , does all the stuff the old F-18s can do but in a newer airframe . TU95 Bear pilots are sure to get a kick out being intercepted by them . <p> It will be interesting to see how soon he stops the bombing . If it 's abiding by Harper 's initiative to go until April , as the article suggests may happen , then that 's really not good enough . <p> The compromise that the article describes on the F-35 purchase sounds similar to what Mulcair had said about it . <p> Quote : <p> For the new Liberal government , opting out of the fighter program for the sake of appeasing the electorate could have international repercussions of substantial consequence . A compromise solution would be for Trudeau to put them back on the table and for the Canadian Armed Forces to conduct a fair and transparent competition to determine which aircraft will best suit the RCAF 's needs in the post-CF-18 era . <p> I have no problem with him finishing our commitment seeing as it is over in a few months anyway . He never said he was against the bombing or fighting ISIS , just that he thought there are better ways for Canada to contribute to the battle . <p> A fake competition would n't make the other countries more agreeable about our pulling out . The planes do not meet our technical requirements and the price has risen astronomically so they no longer meet our budgetary requirements . <p> " Trudeau vowed during the campaign that one of his first priorities would be to end the RCAF commitment in the allied air compaign against for ! ISIS in Syria and Iraq . <p> Of course Trudeau did not specify an exact date as to when the RCAF contingent will pack up and fly home from Kuwait . Some have speculated that in order to appease Obama , Canada might keep our six-pack of CF-18 fighters in the Middle East until the one-year Parliament-approved mission expires in April <p> As a sop to the Americans , Trudeau has also promised to keep Canada in the fight against ISIS , albeit in a different capacity than simply launching combat air-strikes . <p> During the campaign the Liberals also vowed to cancel Canada 's participation in the purchase of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter . Trudeau stated categorically that , if elected , the Liberals would take this off the menu and seek a cheaper replacement aircraft for the CF-18 fleet . <p> For the new Liberal government , opting out of the fighter program for the sake of appeasing the electorate could have international repercussions of substantial consequence ... " <p> I find this article to be so hawkish as to be laughable . Both suggestions are based on pure speculation . <p> ... interesting to watch how long before Trudeau will cave in on his plan to withdraw our forces ... as USA must make its moves in response to Russian and allies successes ... <p> I read somewhere here of plans to stop the Liberals in 2019 ? Better be prepared to stop them now ! <p> The Liberals have a history of promoting peacekeeping and Chretien refused to invade Iraq with the US although we did participate in Afghanistan . <p> Trudeau has stated that sending troops into the Mid-East is counter-productive and he is against bombing missions . <p> The people of Canada are much less militaristic than Harper . Harper tried to Americanize us in terms of attitude towards the military but it failed . We honour the sacrifices made by our soldiers but regret the violence . Harper tried to get us excited about the war of 1812 in 2012 but hardly anyone noticed . Our pride rests in being a peaceful nation not a powerful one . <p> We are part of Nato , we have treaties to honour , diplomatic ties that put pressures on us to participate militarily but we used to send many more soldiers to participate in UN peacekeeping missions rather than bombing missions . That is n't to say those missions were necessarily innocent , but Canadians in general are uncomfortable with military adventurism . <p> Any presence of CF in Iraq or Syria without the express permission of their governments constitutes serious violations of international law . The cavalier manner in which this has been ignored along with the monstrous consquences of our involvement thus far in the deliberate destabilization and destruction of these sovereign states should be a matter of great concern to all . <p> " We 'd move away from the CF-18 bombing mission , " Trudeau said in an interview with Terry Milewski on CBC 's Power &amp; Politics . " This government has failed miserably to demonstrate why the best mission for Canada is to participate in a bombing mission , " Trudeau said . <p> And while Trudeau pledged to pull Canadian fighter jets from the Middle East , he doubled down on his commitment to send more military personnel to help train Iraqi security forces -- beyond the 70 or so Canadian special operations personnel who are currently embedded with the Kurdish Peshmerga . <p> " We would engage Canada 's military in something we 've demonstrated tremendous ability at in Afghanistan and elsewhere : training up local troops doing the fighting on the ground . " Trudeau refused to say how many more trainers should be deployed ..... <p> Trudeau ruled out committing combat troops to Iraq , even as the security situation there deteriorates . ISIS now controls more than a quarter of Iraq including Mosul , the country 's second largest city . ISIS fighters recently took Ramadi , a city about 100 kilometres away from the capital of Baghdad . <p> " I think 10 years ago we learnt through the first Iraq war what happens when Western troops get involved in combat . They do n't necessarily , whether it 's Libya , whether it 's Iraq , it does n't lead to the outcomes that people would responsibly like to see , " Trudeau said . <p> I think training local troops is something the vast majority of Canadians would support . <p> Any presence of CF in Iraq or Syria without the express permission of their governments constitutes serious violations of international law . The cavalier manner in which this has been ignored along with the monstrous consquences of our involvement thus far in the deliberate destabilization and destruction of these sovereign states should be a matter of great concern to all . <p> Unfortunately most Canadians do n't know or do n't believe that . <p> quizzical , if for no other reason , you might be concerned because you are paying the bill for it and it motivates terrorists to target Canada . <p> While this is true from the 1950s into the 1990s , the Liberals in government from 1996 onwards have a history of abandoning peacekeeping . When the Liberals came to power in 1993 , Canada ranked number one in the world as a contributor to UN pecekeeping . This has not happened since . Canada fell out of the top 10 peacekeepers in 1996 , fell consistently over time , and ranked 61st in the world in 2006 , when Stephen Harper came to power . Canada 's rank has risen since then . By the numbers , both the Mulroney and Harper governments have a better record on thsi file ( appalling as the Harper record ahs been ) than the Chretien-Martin Liberal governments . <p> I hope to be pleasantly surprised by Justin Trudeau 's foreign policy too -almost anything would be an improvement on the Harper scowl at the rest of the world - but let 's avoid the myths and focus on the facts . <p> Any presence of CF in Iraq or Syria without the express permission of their governments constitutes serious violations of international law . The cavalier manner in which this has been ignored along with the monstrous consquences of our involvement thus far in the deliberate destabilization and destruction of these sovereign states should be a matter of great concern to all . <p> Unfortunately most Canadians do n't know or do n't believe that . <p> quizzical , if for no other reason , you might be concerned because you are paying the bill for it and it motivates terrorists to target Canada . <p> big breath .... <p> i do care . i was attempting to indicate i did n't feel it was a complete statement and it needed reasons why . he posts too many links and expects people to just go there with no commentary or explanation . <p> for example , i 'm alarmed and concerned at the failure of media to report and inform . i 'm concerned people do n't care about violations of international law especially when it comes to middle east countries . i 'm concerned about Canadians being complicit in destroying countries . i 'm concerned when you try to explain to people why they should be concerned they look at you like you 're crazy . <p> i 'm alarmed and concerned because we ca n't seem to find a way to get people concerned . i was trying to illicit a response from NDPP which could generate caring . i ca n't even get my daughter to care or feel it 's important to know these things are wrong and do something about it . ( karma as i 'm sure my mom felt the same way back in the day ) as for your examples why , i 've used them both , a selfie is more important to most . <p> Canada continues to operate as per Western foreign policy objectives which involve the destruction of the Syrian state and dismemberment of its territory . Regime change was and remains part of this objective as is the use of ISIS and other Takfiri terrorists employed and directed by the West and its GCC allies for the overall purpose . This was planned some years ago and has nothing to do with the sins , real or imagined , of Bashar Assad . Given the hundreds of thousands killed and the scale of carnage inflicted upon Syria , ( and Libya , Iraq before ) as a deliberate planned project , should fill us with horror knowing that this is the same power-structure that controls our country and its political representatives . <p> I agree that our media , who service elite agendas are a big part of the reason Canadians remain so ignorant , confused or unmoved by events occurring . I post here as a small corrective contribution but people 's education must be their own affair . I see the contours of a proto fascist national agenda emerging , even as Canadians self-imagine themselves as ' progressive ' and their country on the side of the angels in world affairs . It is hard enough trying to keep track of and post some of the significant and unfolding events . People will have to decide for themselves whether they care or not . <p> The Liberal Party under Trudeau will , I predict , not prove to be any ' real change ' . My own research suggests we will see a Canada even more pro-actively collaborationist with corporate interests and Washington , Tel Aviv and Brussels . Of particular concern to me is a small cabal of ultranationalist MPs deeply committed to the corrupt Kiev putschist regime , NATO expansion and the escalation of tensions with Russia . Zionist power and influence is another critical problem requiring our attention . <p> My suggestion to anyone looking for an easy way to supplement your existing news sources and increase understanding of some of these foreign policy issues , is to add RT news to your mix and compare it to CTV or CBC to see what you think . <p> Any presence of CF in Iraq or Syria without the express permission of their governments constitutes serious violations of international law . The cavalier manner in which this has been ignored along with the monstrous consquences of our involvement thus far in the deliberate destabilization and destruction of these sovereign states should be a matter of great concern to all . <p> Unfortunately most Canadians do n't know or do n't believe that . <p> quizzical , if for no other reason , you might be concerned because you are paying the bill for it and it motivates terrorists to target Canada . <p> big breath .... <p> i do care . i was attempting to indicate i did n't feel it was a complete statement and it needed reasons why . he posts too many links and expects people to just go there with no commentary or explanation . <p> for example , i 'm alarmed and concerned at the failure of media to report and inform . i 'm concerned people do n't care about violations of international law especially when it comes to middle east countries . i 'm concerned about Canadians being complicit in destroying countries . i 'm concerned when you try to explain to people why they should be concerned they look at you like you 're crazy . <p> i 'm alarmed and concerned because we ca n't seem to find a way to get people concerned . i was trying to illicit a response from NDPP which could generate caring . i ca n't even get my daughter to care or feel it 's important to know these things are wrong and do something about it . ( karma as i 'm sure my mom felt the same way back in the day ) as for your examples why , i 've used them both , a selfie is more important to most . <p> Thank you for elaborating . I agree that it is frustrating that people ca n't see what the elites are doing , how we are being walked off a cliff in so many different ways . <p> But by citing the Liberal sponsored Responsibility to Protect ( R2P0 to justify Canadian participation in the US-led bombing , these pundits are revealing the essence of this ' humanitarian imperialist doctrine . ' <p> Will Trudeau discard the doctrine or quickly reveal himself as just another liberal imperialist ? " <p> But by citing the Liberal sponsored Responsibility to Protect ( R2P0 to justify Canadian participation in the US-led bombing , these pundits are revealing the essence of this ' humanitarian imperialist doctrine . ' <p> Will Trudeau discard the doctrine or quickly reveal himself as just another liberal imperialist ? " <p> The truth is , human rights rhetoric aside , R2P is an effort to redefine international law to better serve the major powers . While the less sophisticated neoconservatives simply call for a more aggressive military posture , the more liberal supporters of imperialism prefer a high-minded ideological mask to accomplish the same end . Those citing R2P to pressure Trudeau to continue bombing Iraq-Syria are demonstrating an acute , but cynical , understanding of the doctrine . <p> That it has been misused does n't mean that was its intent nor that it is the way it must be used . <p> Did we not have a responsibility to step in during the Holocaust ? <p> Will Trudeau discard the doctrine or quickly reveal himself as just another liberal imperialist ? <p> Trudeau does n't have to discard the doctrine in order to stop bombing . He is saying this is n't the best way for us to contribute to stopping ISIS , not that we should n't try . Our " responsibility to protect " can come in the form of training local troops if we believe that is a more successful approach . 
@@51279449 <p> Looks to me as if it 's all about adding some of the IHRA " examples " to the assessment of whether some speech or action is antisemitic - i.e. , being too harsh on Israel must mean that you do n't like Jews . Other than that , at least from what I can see , it is much ado about nothing . <p> I think there is an argument that Jews are a nation as well as a religion . I am not sure that I can say whether they are or not . Some Jewish people identify more with the culture than the religion . <p> My bigger concern is the blurring between Israeli nation and Jewish people in order to label any objection to the state of Israel 's behaviour as antisemitism . The example is the claim that the boycott against Israel is a boycott against Jews generally . <p> I think there is an argument that Jews are a nation as well as a religion . I am not sure that I can say whether they are or not . Some Jewish people identify more with the culture than the religion . <p> I identify with the culture . I 'm an atheist . I 'm a Jew . I 'm a Quebecer . I 'm a Canadian . Jews are NOT a " nation " . What makes you say that ? <p> Quote : <p> My bigger concern is the blurring between Israeli nation and Jewish people in order to label any objection to the state of Israel 's behaviour as antisemitism . The example is the claim that the boycott against Israel is a boycott against Jews generally . <p> Yes , that 's what I said - the IHRA " examples " . The rest of the media speculation finds no support in the text of the executive order . <p> I think there is an argument that Jews are a nation as well as a religion . I am not sure that I can say whether they are or not . Some Jewish people identify more with the culture than the religion . <p> I identify with the culture . I 'm an atheist . I 'm a Jew . I 'm a Quebecer . I 'm a Canadian . Jews are NOT a " nation " . What makes you say that ? <p> Quote : <p> My bigger concern is the blurring between Israeli nation and Jewish people in order to label any objection to the state of Israel 's behaviour as antisemitism . The example is the claim that the boycott against Israel is a boycott against Jews generally . <p> Yes , that 's what I said - the IHRA " examples " . The rest of the media speculation finds no support in the text of the executive order . <p> I think that there is more of a shared history than just in the religion . <p> I think there is an argument for this . However if you allow this then you have in terms of identity three in a ven diagram where each is different : the religion ; Jews as a national idenity ; Israel . <p> Using the definitions of nation I think you can make arguments either way . I am less certain about saying there is no nation here than making the point that if there is then it is not equivalent to the religion and certainly not the same as the Israeli political entity . Convenience lumping these idenitieis together in order to protect Israel from criticism risks increasing antisemitism for real . <p> But ca n't Jews be described as a people ? Certainly not only a religion , as there are many atheist and agnostic Jews . In French there is a distinction between Judaiet ? ( " Jewishness " ) and Juda ? sme ( the religion ) . <p> Jews as a " race " sounds like Nazi hate-speech , but " race " used to be used in the sense of people or nation , which is obviously unacceptable nowadays . <p> We must also keep in mind that Trump is utterly full of shit , and nothing he says makes sense . <p> But ca n't Jews be described as a people ? Certainly not only a religion , as there are many atheist and agnostic Jews . In French there is a distinction between Judaiet ? ( " Jewishness " ) and Juda ? sme ( the religion ) . <p> Jews as a " race " sounds like Nazi hate-speech , but " race " used to be used in the sense of people or nation , which is obviously unacceptable nowadays . <p> We must also keep in mind that Trump is utterly full of shit , and nothing he says makes sense . <p> This is my point -- I do not like to reference race as this is a construct and loaded in the ways you mean . But theya re a people with a shared history that goes beyond religion . <p> One aspect of nationhood is being associated with a geographical place . While this is historic and controversial , this is not absent despite most not being from there . This is true of other nations . <p> I do not see this controversy as clear enough to want to make an issue of . I think some Jews see themselves as a nation and some do not . But other words like people and there is less controversy but what is the difference and why does it matter ? <p> I thin the greater objection is the idea that the Israeli state is the same identity as being Jewish . I have known a number of Jewish people who have very different views on this -- some seeing no difference and others furious with the idea of them being considered the same thing as they are definitely Jewish and not happy with the behaviour of the state of Israel . Again there are others who are broadly supportive of the state of Israel and totally opposed to the current politics and positions of its government . If you accept that nationhood is an identity an individual makes along with others , it is not surpising that not everyone has the same conclusion . That is why I am disturbed by the equivalence being claimed on behalf of everyone but not so much each individual 's choice of their own identity . <p> Here in Canada we have a Quebec nation , Indigenous nations and a Canadian nation ( and certainly others ) -- we do not require all who can fit into one to choose to identify that way or to only choose one . How many people whose ancestors come from Acadia and now live in Quebec claim to be part of an Acadian nation , a Quebec nation and a Canadian one or any combination of the three ? This does not mean that they would want to see them as equivalent even if some others might choose to see it that way . <p> I also think that a byproduct of oppression is an even stronger identity as a people . I am not advocating oppression but this is one of the responses to it . You see this in many different examples where people are or have been oppressed . <p> Here is what I found with a quick search . Thx Unionist for the post and links . <p> ii ) the " Contemporary Examples of Anti-Semitism " identified by the IHRA , to the extent that any examples might be useful as evidence of discriminatory intent . <p> When I searched IHRA this is what I found . I bolded the parts I find vague enough to be used as a sword against BDS activists and others . <p> To guide IHRA in its work , the following examples may serve as illustrations : <p> Manifestations might include the targeting of the state of Israel , conceived as a Jewish collectivity . However , criticism of Israel similar to that leveled against any other country can not be regarded as anti-Semitic . Anti-Semitism frequently charges Jews with conspiring to harm humanity , and it is often used to blame Jews for " why things go wrong . " It is expressed in speech , writing , visual forms and action , and employs sinister stereotypes and negative character traits . <p> Contemporary examples of anti-Semitism in public life , the media , schools , the workplace , and in the religious sphere could , taking into account the overall context , include , but are not limited to : <p> Calling for , aiding , or justifying the killing or harming of Jews in the name of a radical ideology or an extremist view of religion . <p> Making mendacious , dehumanizing , demonizing , or stereotypical allegations about Jews as such or the power of Jews as collective -- such as , especially but not exclusively , the myth about a world Jewish conspiracy or of Jews controlling the media , economy , government or other societal institutions . <p> Accusing Jews as a people of being responsible for real or imagined wrongdoing committed by a single Jewish person or group , or even for acts committed by non-Jews . <p> Denying the fact , scope , mechanisms ( e.g. gas chambers ) or intentionality of the genocide of the Jewish people at the hands of National Socialist Germany and its supporters and accomplices during World War II ( the Holocaust ) . <p> Accusing the Jews as a people , or Israel as a state , of inventing or exaggerating the Holocaust . <p> Accusing Jewish citizens of being more loyal to Israel , or to the alleged priorities of Jews worldwide , than to the interests of their own nations . <p> Denying the Jewish people their right to self-determination , e.g. , by claiming that the existence of a State of Israel is a racist endeavor . <p> Applying double standards by requiring of it a behavior not expected or demanded of any other democratic nation . <p> Using the symbols and images associated with classic anti-Semitism ( e.g. , claims of Jews killing Jesus or blood libel ) to characterize Israel or Israelis . <p> Drawing comparisons of contemporary Israeli policy to that of the Nazis . <p> Holding Jews collectively responsible for actions of the state of Israel . <p> I am afraid that calling Israel an apartheid state and pointing out the racist nature of many of its laws and policies that clearly treat Arabs as second class citizens could be found to be evidence of discriminatory intent . Any comparison of what the state of Israel is doing to the people living in the Gaza Strip to any NAZI actions is also clearly evidence of discriminatory intent under the IHRA guidelines . This is using human rights law as a sword to silence criticism of a apartheid state that in its actions resembles the government of Germany during the 1930 's and ' 40 's . <p> I am afraid that calling Israel an apartheid state and pointing out the racist nature of many of its laws and policies that clearly treat Arabs as second class citizens could be found to be evidence of discriminatory intent . Any comparison of what the state of Israel is doing to the people living in the Gaza Strip to any NAZI actions is also clearly evidence of discriminatory intent under the IHRA guidelines . This is using human rights law as a sword to silence criticism of a apartheid state that in its actions resembles the government of Germany during the 1930 's and ' 40 's . <p> Exactly . That 's why progressive Jews - including those of us who belong to Independent Jewish Voices - have been campaigning , with some success , to stop institutions and governments from adopting the IHRA examples of antisemitism . Please join us in this necessary fight : <p> Thanks , Unionist . Then we get we cases from Argentina when the supposedly post-dicatorship regime sent condolences to the Israeli Embassy to the large number of Argentine Jews ( and other people ) murdered during the AMIA terror attack , as well as the dictatorship 's specific targeting of Jewish Argentinians . I have friends affected by that , who are also strong opponents of how Israel has been treating Palestinians . European Nazis and collaborators killed their families , not Palestinians . <p> I am afraid that calling Israel an apartheid state and pointing out the racist nature of many of its laws and policies that clearly treat Arabs as second class citizens could be found to be evidence of discriminatory intent . Any comparison of what the state of Israel is doing to the people living in the Gaza Strip to any NAZI actions is also clearly evidence of discriminatory intent under the IHRA guidelines . This is using human rights law as a sword to silence criticism of a apartheid state that in its actions resembles the government of Germany during the 1930 's and ' 40 's . <p> Exactly . That 's why progressive Jews - including those of us who belong to Independent Jewish Voices - have been campaigning , with some success , to stop institutions and governments from adopting the IHRA examples of antisemitism . Please join us in this necessary fight : <p> " ... The problem for me ( and for many others who share my point of view ) is that I do , indeed , believe that the ' State of Israel ' is a racist endeavour ' and that this is fundamentally and irretrievably the case ... What I seek to win from you is an understanding that I am advancing a serious political point of view and whether you agree or disagree with it , there is no reliable basis for deeming me something akin to a hate criminal ... " <p> Just imagine , we now have to justify a principled position against our own governments determined to advance the agenda of a foreign power , Apartheid Israel and friends , and its ' AS ' component . If South African apartheid had had a equally powerful and influential lobby/fifth column , Mandela would have died in Robben Island . 
@@51282410 <p> William Schabas , a Canadian lawyer defending Myanmar against genocide charges at the U.N . ' s International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) , poses for a photo before an interview with Reuters in The Hague , Netherlands December 12 , 2019 . <p> EVA PLEVIER/Reuters <p> Canadian lawyer William Schabas , an international scholar on genocide , has been criticised by friend and foe for first researching crimes against the Muslim Rohingya of Myanmar , and now defending the state accused of perpetrating them . <p> Schabas helped research a report in 2010 on systematic attacks against the Rohingya , which concluded that they met the international threshold of crimes against humanity . <p> Three years later , in an Al Jazeera documentary , he was filmed saying : " Denying their history , denying the legitimacy of their right to live where they live , these are all warning signs that mean that it 's not frivolous to envisage the use of the word genocide . " <p> Story continues below advertisement <p> This week Schabas stood alongside Myanmar leader Aung San Suu Kyi at the International Court of Justice in The Hague and denied genocide took place during a military campaign in 2017 in which thousands were killed and raped and hundreds of thousands displaced . <p> " William Schabas is basically selling out the Rohingya for some Myanmar gov't $$$ . Really the worst sort of behaviour , how totally immoral and two-faced , " Phil Robertson , Deputy Asia Director at Human Rights Watch said on Twitter on Thursday . <p> In an interview with Reuters , Schabas rejected the criticism . <p> " I am an international lawyer . I do international law cases , " he said at a book launch after three gruelling days in court where he argued the crimes did not constitute genocide . <p> " Both sides have a right to have competent representation . If people do n't understand that , that 's not my problem , " he said . <p> Stephen Rapp , a former United States war crimes ambassador who works at the Holocaust museum , was among colleagues who criticised Schabas . <p> " We have heard this morning from my friend Bill Schabas , I was just with him 10 days ago . I prosecuted genocide , we obtained convictions for this crime . He is wrong about the law : this was a genocide , " Rapp told journalists and NGOs in The Hague on Wednesday evening . <p> Story continues below advertisement <p> In court the following day , Schabas tried to clarify his 2013 remarks in the Al Jazeera documentary " The Hidden Genocide " . <p> Schabas said he was responding to a hypothetical , not the real situation in Myanmar . <p> " The journalist persistently tried to get me to apply the word genocide ... And I just as persistently refused , cause I 've never said that genocide was taking place in Myanmar . " <h> NO GENOCIDE DENIALIST <p> In the Reuters interview Schabas also countered criticism of his views about the events in Srebrenica , Bosnia , when around 8,000 Muslim men and boys were massacred by Bosnian Serb forces in July 1995 . <p> " He , frankly , does n't think Srebrenica was ( genocide ) and that was found by the courts ( to be genocide ) , " said Rapp . " The position he takes on genocide is in my view entirely too restrictive " . <p> Schabas said he has accepted that Srebrenica was genocide . <p> Story continues below advertisement <p> " I am not arguing with anybody about whether genocide took place in Srebrenica . That has been decided . That train has left the station and the fact that I had an opinion about it before the decisions were reached seems to me to be quite normal and understandable , " he said . <p> His distinct interpretation of the crime of genocide has led some people to call him a genocide denialist , a criticism he rebuffed . <p> " If you discuss genocide and you suggest that this probably does n't fit the definition of international law , very quickly some people say you are denying , they say you 're denying genocide , as if you 're , you know , a Nazi sympathizer whose claiming that Auschwitz did n't exist , which most of the time is not the case . <p> " Your old debate about Srebrenica was not whether it happened or not , it 's not about that . It 's about whether the legal qualification should be crimes against humanity rather than genocide , " Schabas said . <p> Defending a party accused of genocide is never going to be a popular job , said Sareta Ashraph , an international lawyer who considers the events in Myanmar a " slow-burn genocide " . <p> " For him a genocide has to involve a substantial number of dead , he relies on body count , " she said . " I think he 's actually the perfect person for that case , although I disagree with his arguments . It 's not an absurd argument , it 's just very , very conservative on genocidal intent " . <p> Story continues below advertisement <p> In 2015 , Schabas was forced to resign as the head of the United Nations Commission of Inquiry on the Gaza Conflict after a complaint from Israel about his prior work for the Palestine Liberation Organisation . <p> UN Watch director Hillel Neuer said he told Schabas at the time that he " had breached his duty of impartiality as head of the UN Human Rights Council inquiry " because he had made prejudicial statements " including his call to indict Israel 's prime minister as his ' favourite ' defendant ... " <p> Genocide , Schabas said , is a subject of great sensitivity to people " and the debates can be not only quite robust , but people get angry very quickly . " <p> He said his decision to stand in Myanmar 's corner was not emotional , but professional . " I am hired as a lawyer , they 're my client . " <p> Due to technical reasons , we have temporarily removed commenting from our articles . We hope to have this fixed soon . Thank you for your patience . If you are looking to give feedback on our new site , please send it along to **25;81;TOOLONG . If you want to write a letter to the editor , please forward to letters@globeandmail.com . <p> Welcome to The Globe and Mail 's comment community . This is a space where subscribers can engage with each other and Globe staff . Non-subscribers can read and sort comments but will not be able to engage with them in any way . Click here to subscribe . <p> Welcome to The Globe and Mail 's comment community . This is a space where subscribers can engage with each other and Globe staff . Non-subscribers can read and sort comments but will not be able to engage with them in any way . Click here to subscribe . 
@@51287949 <p> The Nova Scotia Human Rights Commission has stripped a former NDP candidate of an annual human rights award after comments she made that compared Israel to Nazi Germany . <p> Rana Zaman stepped down as a candidate for the party in June , roughly a year after posting a string of tweets that suggested Israeli forces were " aiming higher than 6 million " in their bid to wipe out the Palestinian people . " I wonder if #Israel borrowed this from the #Nazis after they saw how successful they were ? " she wrote , adding , " #Gaza is the new #Auschwitz . " <p> The tweet was later deleted but had been captured in a screen shot by Jewish group B'nai Brith Canada . <p> The commission issued a press release on Friday saying it had " formally rescinded " an award it gave to Zaman . At the time of the award , the release said , its committee " was unaware of public statements made by Ms. Zaman that were directly contrary to the principles of the award . " <p> A spokesperson for the commission declined to confirm on the record whether the decision to strip the award was tied to Zaman 's tweets . The press release declined to mention which award was actually given to Zama . Earlier press releases that named the award recipients were no longer accessible on the human rights commission 's website . <p> However , a press release from the Nova Scotia government dated Dec. 10 , 2019 named Zaman as the recipient of an " Individual Award " for her " extraordinary advocacy efforts in bringing together diverse communities in Halifax . " The annual awards are part of an effort to " demonstrate a commitment to advancing human rights and enhancing equity and inclusion in their community , " the press release said . <p> Jewish advocacy groups the Centre for Israel and Jewish Affairs ( CIJA ) and the Atlantic Jewish Council ( AJC ) commended the decision on Friday . <p> " This decision makes clear that people who engage in this type of hateful discourse disqualify themselves as human rights advocates , " the groups wrote in a joint statement . <p> Zaman , a social activist and Muslim who has spoken publicly about fighting Islamophobia , was running for election in the Nova Scotia riding of Dartmouth-Cole Harbour . The NDP lost the seat in the October election to Liberal incumbent Darren Fisher . <p> In a series of tweets posted between June 2 and June 4 , 2018 , Zaman voiced her outrage at the shooting of Palestinian protesters . " If Israel is so advanced then why ca n't they avoid shooting defenceless paramedics and journalists , unless they 're killing innocent people deliberately ! " she wrote on June 3 . " Israel 's injustice and arrogance can no longer be defended and people are wise to Israel 's tired old rhetoric . " <p> Zaman later apologized for the comments , saying they were " inappropriate , hurtful and sadly may be perceived as anti-Semitic . " She said she had reached out to members of the Jewish community in a bid to make amends . <p> Zaman had long been an advocate against Islamophobic online comments . After the New Zealand mosque shooting earlier this year in which 51 people were killed , Zaman wrote an op-ed in a Nova Scotia newspaper that said social media companies " need to be held accountable for allowing their platforms to be used to target minority groups with hate speech . " <p> " We need to hold hateful people accountable , " she said in Halifax newspaper The Coast . " Revise hate speech laws -- currently it 's almost impossible for people to be charged and convicted . " <p> A blood-soaked trail of interconnected traffickers and deals ran from the RCMP 's Operation Harrington to the Sinaloa Cartel <p> This Week 's Flyers <h> Comments <p> Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles . Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site . We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful . We have enabled email notifications -- you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment , there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments . Visit our community guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings . 
@@51295945 <h> JIM VIBERT : International lethargy permits occupation of Gaza , West Bank <p> A Palestinian demonstrator runs away from tear gas fired by Israeli soldiers during an anti-Israel protest in the Israeli-occupied West Bank . - Reuters <p> At this time of year , the thoughts of many Christians turn to biblical tales of shepherds and wise men drawn to a humble little town where the gospels of Luke and Matthew place Mary , Joseph and their new-born baby . <p> Bethlehem is in the grip of an occupying power today , just as it was in the time of Jesus . As a West Bank town , Bethlehem is Palestinian territory and occupied , for more than 52 years now , by Israel -- " the longest belligerent occupation in the modern world , " Michael Lynk reminds us . <p> Halifax-born and raised , Lynk is a law professor at the University of Western Ontario and , more to the point , he 's the UN Special Rapporteur on human rights in the Palestinian territories . His fearless chronicles of Israeli abuses against the Palestinian people in the occupied West Bank and Gaza have drawn the ire of official Israel and its international defenders . <p> Those critics claim his reports " legitimize anti-Semites , " an accusation Lynk says is not much different from being labelled an anti-Semite himself . But the learned law professor 's censure of illegitimate Israeli action -- and of the international community that allows it to persist -- is , without exception , weighted by scrupulous application of international law . <p> While might made right two millennia ago when Rome occupied what we now call the Holy Land , it 's not supposed to be so today . But , Lynk dares to ask : " are we simply to accept that , with this occupation , international law is closer to power than it is to justice ? " <p> In his most recent report to the United Nations , Lynk identifies the two defining characteristics of the occupation . <p> The first is its conduct , " marked by numerous , intentional and serious violations of international law , including humanitarian and human rights law . " The second is the unwillingness of the international community to meet its obligations to hold Israel accountable for those violations . <p> Lynk is unflinching in reporting those violations . Israel 's land , sea and air blockade of Gaza , now in its 12th year , severely limits the movement of people in and out of the strip . Palestinians in Gaza suffer inadequate access to water , power , education and health care . Their economy is in ruins . <p> ( This ) occupation will not end without the international community acting decisively in support of international law and its common values to compel Israel to fulfil its obligations . " <p> - Michael Lynk , UN official <p> " The Gaza blockade is a denial of basic human rights and amounts to collective punishment . " Hundreds of Palestinian have been killed and tens of thousands injured in recent years by Israel 's brutal enforcement of a " buffer zone " inside the security barrier -- the heavily guarded parameter of Gaza . <p> Calls for annexation of the occupied West Bank , including from the Israeli government , have increased violence against the Palestinians there . Many have been forced to leave their homes while Israeli settlements continue to expand . <p> And , Israel has extended civil authority over occupied East Jerusalem in a continuing effort to ensure that its annexation is irreversible . <p> For the record , collective punishment , settlement of occupied territory , or as Lynk calls it , the " occu-annexation " of the West Bank and East Jerusalem are all breaches of international law . <p> Children are too often the victims . The 1.3 million Palestinian children who live in the West Bank and a million more in Gaza suffer physically and psychologically from constant exposure to violence . The UN verified 59 Palestinian children killed and 2,756 injured in Gaza in 2018 alone . <p> Lynk says the international community has the power and ability to ensure a positive , durable and just solution to the occupation . <p> Israelis of conscience , he says -- and there are a great many -- will tell you that only international pressure will force Israel to comply with international law . <p> " ( This ) occupation will not end without the international community acting decisively in support of international law and its common values to compel Israel to fulfil its obligations . " <p> But , Israel has rightly assessed that the international community -- particularly Western industrial nations -- lacks the political will to compel an end to Israel 's impunity . <p> As a consequence , Lynk assesses the immediate future as dire for the Palestinians , and not much better for Israel . Because a nation that holds five million people with no civil or human rights and no future -- as Israel holds the Palestinians -- is self-corrupting . <p> Of the several possible outcomes , the long-sought two-state solution is a fading dream . A single , democratic state where full civil and human rights are extended to the Palestinians is possible , but not without the international pressure that 's currently absent . <p> A single " illiberal state " of Israel , exhibiting all the characteristics of apartheid , with Palestinians denied their rights , could well emerge from a continuation of the current conditions , said Lynk . <p> Until and unless the international community shakes off its " extraordinary lethargy " and enforces international law and binding humanitarian obligations on Israel , there is little hope for the Palestinians or the Israelis . <p> In the little town of Bethlehem , and the rest of the occupied Palestinian territories , hopes are dashed , and fears are met. 
@@51304016 <h> Homeless veterans and ' war room ' journalists ; In The News for Dec. 25 <h> A look at what 's In The News for Dec. 25 <p> In The News is a roundup of stories from The Canadian Press designed to kickstart your day . Here is what 's on the radar of our editors for the morning of Dec. 25 . <p> What we are watching in Canada ... <p> Internal government documents show four federal departments have quietly spent months crafting an answer to a cross-party call for the government to end veterans homelessness by 2025 . <p> The motion passed the House of Commons in June before the fall federal election . <p> It called for the government to deliver by next summer a plan to meet the target , which also included a special rent-assistance program for homeless veterans . <p> Accurate data about the number of homeless veterans in Canada remains elusive , but various studies peg the number at between 3,000 and 5,000 people , about 10 per cent of them women . <p> Social Development Minister Ahmed Hussen has told stakeholders in meetings of his interest in moving quickly on the issue given the cross-party support for the effort and identifiable policy options . <p> The Liberals ' throne speech this month included a promise that the government will help ensure " that every homeless veteran has a place to call home , " although it did n't provide a timeline to do so . <p> Prime Minister Justin Trudeau 's mandate letters to Hussen and Veterans Affairs Minister Lawrence MacAulay task them with building new affordable housing units for veterans that would include health , social and employment services for " veterans who need extra help . " <p> --- <p> Also this ... <p> The son of a Canadian geologist jailed in Dubai after allegedly uncovering fraud in a gold company says the only way his father will get out of prison is if the Canadian government steps up its pressure on the United Arab Emirates . <p> A panel of Dubai judges on Tuesday rejected Andre Gauthier 's appeal on a technicality , according to Gauthier 's son , Alexis . He said his father , who has been detained off and on in the Middle East since December 2015 , will remain in a Dubai prison indefinitely . <p> The Gauthier family says Andre was a whistleblower who alerted authorities in the United Arab Emirates to irregular dealings in a gold-trading company , Gold AE . But instead of being thanked for his troubles , he was arrested , charged and convicted with committing 73 counts in the very fraud he uncovered . <p> In an interview with The Canadian Press from Quebec City , Alexis said the appeals court on Tuesday found his father not guilty on 11 charges . But due to the fact his father 's lawyer allegedly did n't appeal the remaining 62 charges within the proper time period , Gauthier will remain in jail . <p> Alexis said he does n't understand how his father 's lawyer could be that incompetent . He said the family suspects foul play . <p> " We are extremely disappointed , " he said , after learning of the decision . " We ca n't say we are surprised because the irregularities have multiplied in this case since the beginning . We seem to have the proof now that someone is trying to keep him there . " <p> --- <p> ICYMI ( in case you missed it ) ... <p> Staff in the Alberta government 's so-called war room should stop calling themselves reporters , says the president of the Canadian Association of Journalists . <p> " Do n't pretend that you 're doing journalism -- because you 're not , " Karyn Pugliese said Tuesday from Winnipeg . " When the government hires its own PR firm , that 's fine . But when you pretend that PR firm is journalism , that 's positively Orwellian . " <p> Earlier this month , Alberta 's United Conservative government opened the Canadian Energy Centre , often referred to by Premier Jason Kenney as a " war room " for reacting to and correcting perceived misinformation on the province 's energy industry . <p> The centre has since published a series of articles on its website . Sources contacted for those stories have told media organizations , including The Canadian Press , that staff identified themselves on the phone as reporters . <p> The energy centre did not reply to a request for comment Tuesday , but spokesman Grady Semmens has said that staff are " not advised " to use that term . <p> Pugliese said using the word " reporter " is a dangerous attempt to blur the lines between truth and messaging . <p> At the very least , she said , journalism must be arm's-length from government . The energy centre 's board consists of three provincial cabinet members and is run by a failed United Conservative candidate . <p> --- <p> What we are watching in the U.S. ... <p> Hillary Clinton spent the morning of her husband 's impeachment visiting Capitol Hill to rally Democrats to his side . Pat Nixon kept assuring reporters her husband would n't quit -- right up until he did . Eliza Johnson , frail from tuberculosis , kept watch over her husband during his impeachment while sitting in a room across from his White House office . <p> Melania Trump , just the fourth first lady forced to grapple with the threat of her husband 's impeachment , is pressing on through the ordeal silently , showing no inclination to speak out publicly on behalf of her spouse . <p> While her husband recently broke his own record on daily tweets and delivered his longest-ever rally speech as he was being impeached , the first lady has largely held her tongue -- with the exception of a sharp tweet scolding a law professor who invoked 13-year-old Barron 's Trump name during an impeachment hearing . <p> " Like every first lady , she 's sort of trying to forge her own path through this , " said Tammy Vigil , a Boston University communications professor and author of a book about Melania Trump and Michelle Obama . " In this particular case , she does n't really have a whole lot of history to look toward . " <p> Melania Trump has said in the past that the president is the one the public needs to hear from since he was the one elected . <p> --- <p> What we are watching in the rest of the world ... <p> The Israeli military said it has wrapped up an investigation into an airstrike that killed nine members of a Palestinian family in the Gaza Strip . The report claims the targeted house had been used by Islamic militants but also admitted it did n't expect the strike to result in civilian casualties . <p> The Nov. 14 airstrike in the central Gaza town of Deir al-Balah came in the closing hours of a fierce two-day burst of fighting between Israel and the Islamic Jihad militant group . Without warning , the overnight Israeli strike destroyed the house , killing nine members of the extended Abu Malhous family , including two women and five children under the age of 13 . <p> In a statement , the military said its investigation found the building had served as a " military compound " used by Islamic Jihad . It said that military intelligence had approved the target last June , and that intelligence updates determined the home was used for military purposes in the days before and during the November fighting . <p> " The review also concluded that when planning and carrying out the attack , it was estimated in the IDF that civilians would not be harmed as a result of an attack , " the army said . It said its review included recommendations " with the aim of reducing , as much as possible , the recurrence of similar irregular events . " <p> Mohammed Abu Malhous , 19 , who lost his parents and three siblings in the airstrike , rejected the findings . <p> " Why are they not going to punish those who are responsible ? " he told The Associated Press . " They are liars ... Our house is well known in the area and we have lived in it for the past 15 years . " <p> The incident has raised new questions about Israeli tactics in Gaza . <p> --- <p> This report by The Canadian Press was first published on Dec. 25 , 2019. 
