@@31501532 <h> A taste of army life on a working vacation <h> Volunteers for Israel donate their time to assist the IDF <p> Marion and Steve Mittelman on an IDF base in Israel ; when serving with Volunteers for Israel , she said , " the gratitude from Israelis is something . It 's very powerful . " <p> Marion Mittelman of Pine Brook had trouble picturing herself working on an army base when her husband Steve first suggested it . <p> She loved the idea of traveling to Israel with him -- but she had envisioned herself staying with him at five-star hotels , not in military barracks . Though fit , they are neither young nor particularly rugged . And she had never been to Israel before . <p> Nonetheless , she agreed to a three-week stint following a few weeks of touring . <p> The trip had such an impact on the Mittelmans that they became northern New Jersey 's volunteer ambassadors to the program , known as Volunteers for Israel . The United States-based nonprofit recruits volunteers to perform non-combat support for the Israel Defense Forces . Its Israeli counterpart , Sar-El , coordinates and administers the program there . <p> Since Sar-El 's founding in 1983 , more than 175,000 people have swept barracks , packed medical supplies , and sorted equipment on one- , two- , and three-week programs , with a " healthy number from New Jersey , " according to Marian Sacks , vice president of Volunteers for Israel , who manages its ongoing operations . Volunteers work on bases Sunday through Thursday and spend weekends on their own . <p> " We were floating on the Dead Sea on a Friday knowing we 'd be on a military base for three weeks starting Sunday , " recalled Steve of their trip in February 2013 . <p> The couple were assigned to an army base in Be'er Sheva , in the south of Israel , a half year after Israel 's 2012 battle in Gaza . " We were the first group to arrive on a supply base ; we were sorting tools , which was very much needed because the entire south of Israel needed tools to fix everything " that had been damaged in rocket attacks , he said . <p> Marion added , " And we were relieving reservists from having to be there , so it was good for the IDF and good for the economy . " <p> The couple wore army-issued work clothes during the day , attended a flag-raising ceremony each morning , and ate all their meals with Israeli soldiers and other volunteers from around the world . <p> Marion recalled , " I pictured a giant tent with cots all over the place in really rugged conditions . " Instead , " there were individual rooms , and I shared one with two other women . There was even air conditioning . It 's like being at camp but not as rugged -- it was very doable and a lot of fun . " <p> Marion said the hands-on work is especially meaningful . " I can write a check . But there , you get to be part of Israel , and Israelis ' see ' you . You are part of Israel . It 's an amazing energy to tap into . <p> " The gratitude from Israelis is something , " she added . " They just want to hug you , not as a tourist but as someone who belongs . It 's very powerful . " <p> As ambassadors , the Mittelmans aid with recruitment , speaking at synagogues , campus Hillels , and wherever they can muster an invitation . <p> The average age of volunteers is mid-40s , although anyone over 17 can participate , and there are plenty of retirees , like the Mittelmans , who take part . There are screenings to gauge the physical and emotional strength of potential volunteers as part of the application process . <p> In some cases , applicants are not accepted , based on health issues or their unwillingness to agree not to proselytize . " If we truly feel the potential volunteer will not fit into the setting of living and working in very primitive conditions , we turn down the applicant , " said Sacks , who added that the percentage turned down is " very low overall . " <p> Marion acknowledged that the Sar-El accommodations can seem a bit Spartan ; also , volunteers must wear closed shoes and bring their own linens and must be prepared to carry their own suitcases . <p> Of course , Israelis are n't always sure why Americans want to volunteer in this way . Marion remembers a soldier asking her who paid for them to come to Israel . When they replied that they paid for the flight and were unpaid volunteers , she said , he was dumbfounded . <p> " He said , ' You paid for a flight to come to the base ? I would pay to leave ! ' " <p> By signing up , you agree to our terms You hereby accept the New Jersey Jewish news Terms of Use and Privacy Policy , and you agree to receive the latest news &amp; offers from the New Jersey Jewish News and its partners or ad sponsors . 
@@31501536 <h> Reflections from a recent trip to Israel <p> We recently visited Israel , accompanying four members of Congress -- Jan Schakowsky ( Illinois ) , Peter Welch ( Vermont ) , Andy Levin ( Michigan ) and Deborah Halland ( New Mexico ) -- and 11 J Street leaders . Our goal was to see and hear a wide range of views on the political relationships between Israelis and Palestinians . <p> We did not visit historical , cultural and artistic sites except insofar as they shed light on the current political relationships between Israel and the Palestinians in Israel , the West Bank and Gaza . We visited Yad Vashem and the Yitzhak Rabin museum to remind us and further educate us on the history of Israel and its origins in the Holocaust . We met settlers , leading Knesset members on the right and left , Palestinian Authority leaders , representatives from the Israeli Defense Forces , past members of security organizations Shin Bet and Mossad , leaders from NGOs from Israel and the Palestinian areas , and our current U.S. Ambassador , David Friedman . Most of us had visited Israel many times before . <p> The words we heard most frequently were not " peace , " " security , " " occupation " or " two states for two peoples . " The most frequently heard word was " narrative . " Every group and every occasion had a narrative . What do we mean by narrative ? Everyone has their own unique view of the situation they face , guided by the history of their situation as they tell it . Hence , narrative . In our current times , narratives become valid accountings for those telling their story . All " facts " are viewed through a narrative lens . <p> Some narratives we heard : Palestinians are terrorists . Palestinians are freedom fighters . The West Bank is Judea and Samaria is Areas A , B and C. Jewish settlers in Judea and Samaria are realizing the historical Jewish relation to Israel . Jewish settlers in the West Bank are taking lands that have been in Palestinian families for hundreds of years . These lands are seized by occupiers . These lands are taken lawfully . Palestinian villages have no access to water because they have not properly applied for a permit . These villagers are being driven from their homeland . <p> Sadly , we are trapped by multiple narratives . <p> The many people we met , on all sides ( there are not two sides ; rather there are as many sides as there are narratives ) are captive to these narratives . We would like to step back , set aside the narratives and focus only on what we saw and can agree that we see . Just the facts on the ground . We visited the city of Hebron in the West Bank-Jude a and Samaria-Area C. The city is divided , with one section exclusively inhabited by Israelis . It is completely separated by soldiers , barbed wire and other modern military methods from the other sectors of Hebron , inhabited by Palestinians . The Palestinian residents who had previously lived close to the Israeli residents were moved to other Palestinian sections of Hebron . There are a significant number of Israeli soldiers patrolling the area to maintain separation , eliminate hostilities and keep the situation nonviolent . Each side tells a complex , aggrieved narrative about what happened in Hebron in the 1990s that resulted in the current set of arrangements . But the facts on the ground in the moment are clear : Two groups are kept separated by physical and military means from each other . <p> Between 200 and 1,200 Israelis reside in roughly 20% of the city and roughly 200,000 Palestinian Hebron residents live in the remaining 80% of the city . All movement into and out of Hebron requires movement through checkpoints with permits . One 's lawful movement is dictated by one 's status . Palestinian Hebron residents are governed by Palestinian Authority law and Israeli military law , while the Israeli residents are under Israeli civil law . Same space , different status . Those are the facts on the ground since 1994 . <p> We visited a small village called Susiya in the West Bank-Judea and Samaria-Area C. The villagers are historically ( since at least since Biblical times ) known as " cave dwellers . " They live in caves sometimes and at other times on their land . No matter where they want to stay , Susiya villagers have to receive permits from the Israeli military to stay there or receive water . On the day we visited , we watched as a waterline was being excavated 100 yards from their homes , to which they do not have access . Susiya will need a permit from the Israeli Water Authority for a connection to available water . <p> There are now separate roads for Israelis and Palestinians , resulting in two separate highway systems in Judea and Samaria-the West Bank-Area C. There are checkpoints throughout . Israelis and Palestinians are governed by different laws and rules . We were a few miles outside Gaza at an Israeli moshav ( a cooperative town ) and every house has a safe space they can access within seven seconds if there are rockets flying overhead from Gaza . Rockets flew overhead three days after our visit . <p> The IDF maintains security in the West Bank-Judea and Samaria-Area C using walls and fences , checkpoints , travel restrictions . They enter Palestinians ' homes at night . This is a publicly stated IDF security policy . No Palestinian can enter Israeli towns/settlements without a permit . <p> While in Susiya , Rep. Andy Levin tweeted about the water situation , wondering aloud why they could not get water in Susiya when water was being delivered to nearby houses . Levin was inundated by tweets , reflecting all the narratives we have studiously avoided here . He became popular/vilified very quickly as the Twitter onslaught began . The narrative arrows and plaudits came flying from many directions , including from the Israeli administrative authority COGAT ( Coordinator of Government Activities in the Territories ) responsible for the West Bank . COGAT said : " We were surprised to read @AndyLevin 's tweet . The pipe is part of a major water infrastructure project for the region and will serve all populations in the area , mainly the Palestinians . We regret that your hosts mislead you and misrepresented the situation . ' ' No one tweeted , including COGAT , that if for whatever reason there is no water for these people , something should be done to address their basic human need for water . <p> In these several examples , we present the facts on the ground we and the members of Congress saw . In Hebron , Israelis and Palestinians live in radically different circumstances with far different resources and security arrangements . In Susiya , Palestinians simply can not get access to water . Near Gaza , rockets fly overhead and everyone has built a safe space in the event of rockets from Gaza . If you ask what is happening here and elsewhere , you plunge into a world of competing narratives . But in all these cases , the facts are clear . <p> For all of us , these facts were difficult to grapple with emotionally . Whatever your narrative , the facts are challenging . <p> It is hard enough to change facts ; it seems to be much harder to change narratives . Whatever the narrative , we must engage with these facts . People are living next to each other completely separated from each other . Maybe when we truly engage with the facts and strip away the narratives , there may be some hope of creating a common and better narrative . With that , maybe the facts can change for all for the better . pjc <p> Mark Fichman is an emeritus associate professor of business at Carnegie Mellon University and is active in J Street Pittsburgh . Ruth Fauman-Fichman is an anthropological archaeologist who is currently an interpreter at the Carnegie Museum of Natural History in Pittsburgh . <p> By signing up , you agree to our terms You hereby accept The Times of Israel Terms of Use and Privacy Policy , and you agree to receive the latest news &amp; offers from The Times of Israel and its partners or ad sponsors . 
@@31507236 <h> Where does Bernie Sanders stand on antisemitism , Israel in 2020 ? <h> Where does Bernie Sanders stand on issues that matter to Jewish voters in 2020 ? <p> By JTA <p> DECEMBER 13 , 2019 05:37 <p> Bernie Sanders is vying to become the nation 's first Jewish president . <p> ( photo credit : JTA/DAVID BECKER/GETTY IMAGES ; DESIGN BY GRACE YAGEL ) <p> Bernie Sanders is trying to make Jewish and political history . <p> The senator from Vermont is one of three Jewish candidates vying to become president of the United States in 2020 -- the other two being former New York City mayor Michael Bloomberg and author Marianne Williamson . <p> But barring a strong showing from Bloomberg , who joined the fray late , Sanders , the self-described democratic socialist from Brooklyn , currently has the best chance to become our first Jewish president . <p> His father was a Jewish immigrant from Poland , and his mother was born in America to immigrant Jewish parents from Poland and Russia . In 1963 , he lived and worked on Kibbutz Shaar Haamakim in northern Israel . <p> Sanders has said he is proud to be Jewish . In a June 2015 interview , Sanders said being Jewish taught him " in a very deep way what politics is about . " <p> " A guy named Adolf Hitler won an election in 1932 . He won an election , and 50 million people died as a result of that election in World War II , including 6 million Jews . So what I learned as a little kid is that politics is , in fact , very important , " he said . <p> " The threat of anti-Semitism is not some abstract idea to me . It is very personal . It destroyed a large part of my family . I am not someone who spends a lot of time talking about my personal background because I believe political leaders should focus their attention on a vision and agenda for others , rather than themselves . But I also appreciate that it 's important to talk about how our backgrounds have informed our ideas , our principles , and our values , " Sanders wrote . <p> His essay also shows that Sanders views anti-Semitism as a universal , intersectional threat and calls opposing it a " core value of progressivism . " <p> " Like other forms of bigotry -- racism , sexism , homophobia -- anti-Semitism is used by the right to divide people from one another and prevent us from fighting together for a shared future of equality , peace , prosperity and environmental justice , " he added . <p> He also outlines what his plan would be to fight anti-Semitism : <p> In Bernie 's words , he will : <p> " direct the Justice Department to prioritize the fight against white nationalist violence . " <p> " appoint a Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism ... immediately . " <p> The U.S. left the UN Human Rights Council in 2018 largely for what then-U.S. ambassador to the international body Nikki Haley called " chronic bias against Israel . " <p> What else has Sanders said on anti-Semitism ? <p> In November 2015 , Sanders spoke to NPR about visiting the Polish village where his dad grew up . " It was a very traumatic experience for me as a young man to know that my father 's family was killed by Nazis -- killed by Hitler . And that left -- if not intellectually -- at least an emotional part of me that would say : God , we have got to do everything we can to end this kind of horrific racism and anti-Semitism , and I 've spent much of my life to fight that . " <p> After Rep. Ilhan Omar was criticized for making what some saw as antismitic remarks about Jewish wealth and influence in February , the House voted on a resolution to condemn antisemitism . It was largely seen as a rebuke of Omar 's comments . <p> Sanders said that Omar should be more careful in how she speaks to the Jewish community , but that the resolution was part of an effort to unfairly silence Israel critics . <p> What is Bernie 's relationship like with Jewish groups ? <p> MoveOn , the liberal activist group , called on Democratic presidential candidates to boycott the AIPAC conference in 2019 -- an odd call , because AIPAC avoids asking presidential candidates to participate until primaries have begun . MoveOn tried to claim victory for the uninvited no-shows . Sanders was the single candidate who played along , saying that if he had been invited , he would not have attended . <p> Where does Sanders say about the movement to boycott , divest from and sanction Israel -- commonly referred to as BDS ? <p> Unlike many other progressives , Bernie is against BDS . He has stated that anti-Semitism is a driver of the anti-Israel movement : <p> " Israel has done some very bad things , so has every other country on earth , " Sanders said on MSNBC in March 2016 . " I think the people who want to attack Israel for their policies , I think that is fair game . But not to appreciate that there is some level of anti-Semitism around the world involved in that I think would be a mistake . " <p> However , Sanders voted against the recent anti-BDS bill in Congress , telling the Jewish Telegraphic Agency , " While I do not support the BDS movement , we must defend every American 's constitutional right to engage in political activity . It is clear to me that this bill would violate Americans ' First Amendment rights . " <p> His public record on Israel goes back to 1988 , when Sanders was mayor of Burlington , Vermont . The First Intifada had begun a year earlier , and Sanders said , " What is going on in the Middle East right now is obviously a tragedy , there 's no question about it . The sight of Israeli soldiers breaking the arms and legs of Arabs is reprehensible . The idea of Israel closing down towns and sealing them off is unacceptable . " <p> However , he continued , " You have had a crisis there for 30 years , you have had people at war for 30 years , you have a situation with some Arab countries where there are still some Arab leadership calling for the destruction of the state of Israel and the murder of Israeli citizens . " <p> It 's now been closer to 50 years , but Sanders remains a politician who has continued to express both support for Israel and critique of the country 's policies . <p> In March 2016 , Sanders said , " We have also got to be a friend , not only to Israel , but to the Palestinian people ... When we talk about Israel and Palestinian areas , it is important to understand that today there is a whole lot of suffering among Palestinians and that can not be ignored . " <p> He wants both Israelis and Palestinians to recognize each other 's pain : <p> " The founding of Israel is understood by another people in the land of Palestine as the cause of their painful displacement . And just as Palestinians should recognize the just claims of Israeli Jews , supporters of Israel must understand why Palestinians view Israel 's creation as they do , " Sanders wrote in his Jewish Currents essay . <p> Speaking with Al Jazeera in 2017 , Sanders said that while there are " many problems " with Israel , and that he would continue to be critical , he believes that Israel is unfairly singled out for criticism , especially in relation to other middle eastern countries . <p> He has also criticized Palestinian leaders . <p> " While I am very critical of Netanyahu 's right-wing government , I am not impressed by what I am seeing from Palestinian leadership , as well . It 's corrupt in many cases , and certainly not effective , " Sanders told The New Yorker in April 2019 . <p> So what does he think about solving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict ? <p> In an interview with Council on Foreign Relations , Sanders said , " Ultimately , it 's up to the Palestinians and Israelis themselves to make the choices necessary for a final agreement , but the United States has a major role to play in brokering that agreement . My administration would also be willing to bring real pressure to bear on both sides , including conditioning military aid , to create consequences for moves that undermine the chances for peace . " <p> What about conditioning aid to Israel ? <p> Let 's let Bernie tell you : " I would use the leverage , $3.8 billion is a lot of money , and we can not give it carte blanche to the Israeli government or to any government at all . We have the right to demand respect for human rights and democracy . " He said this at J Street 's conference in October 2019 , and went on to add that aid money should go towards humanitarian aid in Gaza . <p> That was n't the first time he brought up conditioning aid or the idea of using aid as leverage . When Jon Favreau asked Sanders on Pod Save America in July 2019 , " We spend a few billion dollars on aid to Israel . Would you ever consider using that aid as leverage to get the Israeli government to act differently ? " <p> Sanders replied , " Absolutely . " <p> But here 's what he said next : " Let me let me back it up before the tweets start flowing in . I lived in Israel . Actually , I worked in a kibbutz for a number of months . I have family in Israel . I am Jewish . I am not anti-Israel . Okay ? I believe that the people of Israel have , absolutely , the right to live in peace , independence and security . End of discussion ... The role of the United States -- and this is not easy , you know , believe me , Clinton tried it , Obama tried it , Jimmy Carter tried it , this is not easy stuff -- is to try to finally bring peace to the Middle East and to treat the Palestinian people with a kind of respect and dignity they deserve . Our policy can not just be pro-Israel , pro-Israel , pro-Israel . " <p> What is Sanders ' relationship with Benjamin Netaynahu ? <p> " Well , I got ta tell you , I am not a great fan , " Sanders said in 2015 . He 's been vocally critical of the Israeli prime minister and called his policies racist and his government extreme right wing . <p> Where does Sanders stand on Israeli settlements , occupation and the Palestinian territories ? <p> Sanders tweeted in November 2019 that " Israeli settlements in occupied territory are illegal . " He 's also called the occupation unsustainable , telling the AJC forum in June 2019 : " Ending that occupation and enabling the Palestinians to have independence and self-determination in a sovereign , independent , economically viable state of their own is in the best interest of the United States , Israel , the Palestinians and the entire region . " <p> Jewish fun fact ? <p> Bernie went to same high school as Ruth Bader Ginsburg , Chuck Schumer , Judge Judy and several Nobel Prize winners : James Madison High School in the Sheepshead Bay neighborhood of Brooklyn , New York . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31515136 <h> " In the past two days we have renewed the policy of eliminating senior terrorists , we killed dozens of terrorists from Hamas and Islamic Jihad , and destroyed terror towers , " he said . <p> Hamas understands that over the last two days Israel has changed the rules of engagement in Gaza , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Monday after a briefing on the security situation at the Southern Command Headquarters . <p> " In the past two days we have renewed the policy of eliminating senior terrorists , we killed dozens of terrorists from Hamas and Islamic Jihad , and destroyed terror towers , " he said . " We have changed the rules of the game , and Hamas understands this very well . With that , it is clear that this is not the end of the campaign , and I therefore gave instructions to prepare for what will come next , and gave directives to leave armored and artillery forces around the Gaza Strip , " he said . <p> Netanyahu met for a security assessment with National Security Council head Meir Ben-Shabbat , Deputy Chief of Staff Maj.-Gen Eyal Zamir , OC Southern Command Major General Herzi Halevi , Gaza Division commander Brigadier General Eliezer Toledano , and The Coordinator of Government Activities in the Territories , Major General Kamil Abu-Rukun.Before the briefing , Netanyahu visited wounded IDF soldier at Soroka University Medical Center in Beersheba . <p> var cont = Sign up for The Jerusalem Post Premium Plus for just $5Upgrade your reading experience with an ad-free environment and exclusive content <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31518534 <h> The Emperor 's New Clothes : The Tragedy Of The Shalit Deal <p> The Emperor needed new clothes . His wardrobe was not garnering admirers either on the Left or on the Right . <p> So his tailors pretended to stitch a stunning outfit that could only be seen by " good citizens " . <p> Flashy accessories were added -- slick , emotional hype : " This is the last window of opportunity . " " Gilad will be killed if we do n't free him immediately . " " This is the best deal that Hamas has offered . " " The worst offenders will be ' exiled ' to distant lands . " <p> The ruse succeeded . The Emperor and his tailors bask in glory . His subjects have dubbed him " a true leader . " They are oblivious to the fact that they have been conned . Only the little boy -- the marginalized 20 percent of Israelis who opposed this deal -- announces the Emperor 's nakedness , unafraid to be a " bad citizen . " But he fails to convince the enthralled crowds . <p> It will take some time but eventually more subjects will regain their vision and admit to what they see : a naked and reckless Emperor . <p> That process has already begun . My child 's murderer , Ahlam Tamimi , was released last Tuesday . My husband and I disseminated a petition pleading for her to be removed from the list of prisoners in the deal . Within three days , we collected close to 9,000 signatures . <p> For two years , we have presented our arguments against this release as presumptions . We said that nobody had actually proved to the Israeli public that alternative means to free Gilad Shalit were ever investigated and attempted . <p> We never imagined how correct we were . <p> Last week , hours before Gilad 's return , Colonel ( res . ) Ronen Cohen gave candid , shocking interviews to Haaretz and the IBA , Israel Television . Cohen , a recent retiree from the intelligence division at the General Staff , said that the IDF never even considered an operational option to rescue Gilad Shalit . <p> It " was a resounding failure of the IDF . There are no other words to describe it . The IDF never took responsibility for the soldier and did not even set up a team to deal with bringing him back . They simply passed it on to the Shin Bet security service . " <p> Cohen added : " It may also be that during the operation Operation Cast Lead , Dec. 2008 it was still possible to do something , under the cover of the chaos of the fighting , but it was not done . " <p> He noted that Israel failed to gain " bargaining chips " in the form of abducting senior Hamas figures in the Gaza Strip , which could have pushed Hamas to make concessions earlier . <p> When questioned about claims that there was no intelligence on Gilad , Cohen said : " Intelligence is not passive . You must activate intelligence sources . This was never done . " <p> I cried when I heard Cohen 's revelations . <p> Now that the deal is irrevocable , even some of those who helped make it happen have sounded the alarm . A parade of columnists at Haaretz , Israel 's newspaper of record and whose editorial line heavily promoted the release , spews criticism . <p> One of them , Anshel Pfeffer , writes : " Shalit 's capture ... was a colossal operational blunder , at just about every level ... His eventual release was a victory primarily for the other side 's negotiators . " <p> Another columnist , Yoel Marcus warns : " Shalit 's release alone does not make Netanyahu a leader . He will be considered a true leader on the day he realizes that great concessions are made not only for the sake of one soldier , but for a peace agreement inside safe borders for the sake of all the people . And he is n't there yet . " <p> Finally , Amir Oren , railed at the Shin Bet for promising the cabinet to " ' contain the terror ' that could increase as a result of the prisoner releases " and at the High Court of Justice for having " underestimated the danger posed by murderers who have announced their intention to return to murder if freed . Magistrate 's court judges have kept suspects in detention for less . " " If the murderers keep their promises who will bear the responsibility ? " Oren asks . <p> Surely our naked Emperor . He ultimately made this decision alone . As he told the Shalits : " I brought your son home to you . " <p> If anybody must be held accountable , it is he . If the damage he wreaked is to be repaired , he must first be exposed . The blinded 80 percent of this nation must be awakened to their mistake . <p> Frimet Roth 's 15-year-old daughter , Malki , was one of 15 civilians killed in the Sbarro Pizza suicide bombing in Jerusalem in August 2001 . <p> By signing up , you agree to our terms You hereby accept the Jewish Week Terms of Use and Privacy Policy , and you agree to receive the latest news &amp; offers from the Jewish Week and its partners or ad sponsors . 
@@82544133 <h> Palestinians resume weekly Gaza border protests <p> A Palestinian protester throws back a tear gas canister fired by Israeli forces during clashes following a demonstration along the border with Israel east of Rafah in the southern Gaza Strip on Friday . Photo by Ismael Mohamad/UPI License Photo <p> Dec. 6 ( UPI ) -- Dozens of Palestinians sustained injuries Friday during protests at the Gaza border after a three-week pause in the weekly demonstrations , the Gaza Health Ministry said . <p> The Jerusalem Post reported about 4,000 Palestinians participated in the protests along the border fence , with some riots . <p> Some protesters threw explosives at Israel Defense Forces , who responded with live and rubber bullets , Arutz Sheva reported . <p> Thirty-seven people sustained injuries , including four hit by live ammunition . A paramedic and 10 children were among the injured . <p> The demonstrators were taking part in weekly Friday protests at locations along the border . The demonstrations , named the Great March of Return , call for the return of refugees to their homes and lands from which they were displaced in 1948. 
@@82552734 <h> Israel 's F-35 Adir Stealth Fighters Just Practiced Going to War <p> Israeli F-15s , F-16Is and F-35s flew alongside U.S. F-16s as well as Italian F-35s among more than seventy warplanes that participated in the Blue Flag exercise in November . At Israel 's Uvda Air Base airmen from five air forces flew together and practiced flying at low altitude to suppress simulated air defense and practice interoperability with NATO 's Link 16 communications system . <p> The exercise , from November 3 to 14 , came amid rising tensions with Iran and forty-hours of conflict between Israel and Palestinian Islamic Jihad in Gaza . Russia 's Foreign Ministry claimed on November 21 that Israel had also carried out four nights of airstrikes in Syria over a ten-day period . Israel claimed only that it carried out widespread strikes on November 20 after Iran 's IRGC fired rockets at Israel from Syria . Moscow 's assertions , published in Israeli media , stated that on November 12 Israel struck the home of PIJ member Akram al-Ajouri and that on November 18 Israel struck near Albukamal in Syria near the Iraqi border . This same Albukamal area was hit with airstrikes on September 9 , targeting an alleged Iranian base . Israel has admitted to more than 1,000 airstrikes in Syria . Russia , which backs Syria 's government , also claimed Israel carried out another airstrike on November 19 and that on November 20 , in response to Iranian rockets fired at Israel from Syria , " some forty cruise missiles were fired at targets in the Damascus suburbs . " <p> The Blue Flag exercise had no direct relation to the tension in Gaza and Syria , it was planned long before and is the fourth of its kind . However , the exercise came in the context of these tensions and wider regional tensions with Iran . The US 480 Expeditionary Squadron , 52nd Fighter Wing out of Spangdahlem Air Base took part , along with the Italians , Germans and Greeks . The exercise gave Israel and its partners an ability to work closely together . CENTCOM commander General Kenneth McKenzie came to Israel on November 11 and U.S. Air Force Chief of Staff David Goldfein visited Israel at the end of the exercise . Chairman of the Joint Chiefs Mark Milley then arrived on November 25 . These high-level meetings coincided with the important drill for Israel . <p> Israeli jets connected to the Link 16 network and the use of Israeli F-35s with Italian F-35s have wider implications for Israel 's relations with NATO and various European countries . That could mean the potential for more joint work in the future . Israel hosted a NATO drill involving medivacs at sea on October 31 dubbed Crystal Sea . Lt. Gen. Steven Basham of the US Air Forces in Europe -- Air Forces Africa Deputy Commander ( USAFE-AFAFRICA ) was also present . He praised the joint work as a way to improve readiness , integration and interoperability . <p> All this comes alongside new reports that in the last weeks Iran transferred short-range ballistic missiles to Iraq over the last weeks . Iran has been transferring missiles to Iraq and allegedly via Iraq to Syria since at least last year according to reports . Iraq has also accused Israel of striking Iranian-backed militia bases in July and August in Iraq . According to reports at CNBC in July Israel was the first country to use the F-35 in combat . Israel is also increasingly key to the overall F-35 program , with the delivery of the 100th advanced wing for the aircraft by Israel 's Israel Aerospace Industries . Israel received its first two F-35s in December 2016 . Its version is known as the Adir and it was declared operation that year , with a total of 16 delivered by July 2019 . It is a key part of Israel 's Qualitative Military Edge in the region , which makes Israel more advanced in defense technology than other regional powers . <p> Blue Flag helped fit into this as part of the ecosystem of military exercises and operations that improve Israel 's defense relations with the U.S. and other allies in the region and globally . Having a 5th generation F-35s flying with F-16s and F-15s , to conduct low-level missions in early November was important and shows the kinds of issues that Israel and allied countries face . For instance , Israel used Patriot batteries to simulate advanced SAM batteries . Israel has to deal with a variety of air defense in Syria , including destroying an Iranian 3rd Khordad system , according to Israel 's Ynet . Syria has Russian Pantsir S2 and Buk systems , as well as S-200 and S-300s , the latter of which were delivered in October 2018 but never used . An Israeli F-16 crashed in October 2018 after being targeted by an S-200 . In a September incident off Latakia , an S-200 seeking out an Israeli F-16 hit a Russian plane according to Russia 's TASS . A Syrian-fired S-200 also landed in Cyprus in July 2019 , allegedly fired at an Israeli warplane as well . Israel used its Arrow 3 system to shoot down an S-200 in March 2017 when the Syrian missile appeared to be heading for Israel over Jordan . This makes the exercise flying low altitude against air defense all the more real world . <p> Israel calls Blue Flag its most advanced drill of its kind . Training against SAMs with different generations of jets on the data link and in an environment that included drones , helicopters and the Gulfstream G550 which , depending on the configuration , is used for electronic warfare , surveillance and jamming . It can also be used to provide a 360-degree view of the battlefield to track objectives and targets . <p> According to a statement from IAI , the company supplied an innovative drill debriefing system that was upgraded for Blue Flag . " In this year 's exercise the debriefing system processed for the first time , data from Israeli and Italian F-35 fighters , as well as real-time images of moving targets and air defense launches from a range of systems . " <p> Seth J. Frantzman is a Jerusalem-based journalist who holds a Ph.D . from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem . He is the executive director of the Middle East Center for Reporting and Analysis and a writing fellow at Middle East Forum . He is the author of After ISIS : America , Iran and the Struggle for the Middle East ( forthcoming Gefen Publishing ) . Follow him on Twitter at @sfrantzman. 
@@82564434 <p> No Palestinian group claimed responsibility for the rocket fire . The Israeli army said Hamas was responsible for any attack transpiring in Gaza . <p> Cross-border violence between Israel and Palestinian militants in Gaza has ebbed and flowed in recent years . Last month , the two sides fought their worst round of violence in months . <p> Leaders from Hamas and the smaller but more radical Islamic Jihad are in Cairo , talking with Egyptian officials about cementing a cease-fire that would see some economic incentives and easing of restrictions on Gaza . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu warned at his weekly Cabinet meeting Sunday that no steps would be made toward any form of cease-fire as long as rocket fire continued . He said last month 's onslaught , in which 34 Palestinians were killed , including a top militant commander , would be just a " promo " to what came next if aggression from Gaza continued . <p> Hamas has fought three wars with Israel since seizing Gaza in 2007 and dozens of shorter skirmishes . 
@@82659431 <h> In support of the security coordinators , IDF officers began voicing objections to the upper echelons of the military and sections responsible for budgetary matters , including the defense minister . <p> IDF officers voiced strong objections on Friday to bureaucratic changes which were made within the military and to a new contract agreement with security coordinators for local councils , according to a Channel 12 report . <p> The dispute arose when some local councils , including in settlements and along Israel 's borders , refused to sign the new agreement provided by the IDF that would see a reorganization of the bureaucratic structure in which payments would be given to regional councils and then to local councils , who would then distribute it to security coordinators . <p> The result was the dismissal of some security coordinators and non-payment of their salaries in councils that did not sign the new agreement , which has traditionally been paid directly by the Defense Ministry to local councils . Some security coordinators have not received a salary in two months . <p> In support of the security coordinators , IDF officers began issuing threats against the upper echelons of the IDF and sections responsible for budgetary matters , including Defense Minister Naftali Bennett . <p> Following the threats , the National Federation sent a letter to the commander of the ( Gush ) Etzion Brigade , saying that " The explicit threats to the security coordinators have come to a significant detriment to the organization of workers and their right to strike . " <p> Security coordinators have claimed that , " Bennett has thrown us under the bus . " Yaniv Yifrach , a Gaza border community chief rabbi , returned his vehicle and announced on Friday , December 13 , that he did not want to work . " I returned the vehicle . I want my salary , " Yifrach said . He further added that " the council signed the agreement , but the money has not been transferred . They say it 's a technical issue , but it 's not possible anymore to continue on like this . I work twenty-four hours and I deserve a salary . Why should I be without a salary ? " <p> The Defense Ministry responded to the claims , saying that " we recognize and appreciate the work of the security coordinators , and their contribution to strengthening security in localities . Therefore , the Ministry , together with the Regional Council Center , has drafted a new agreement , which will increase the budget for assistance with funding of security components for councils and localities employing rabbis . <p> " The vast majority of regional councils , including the councils in the Gaza Strip communities , have already signed the new agreement and received the budget , " the ministry statement continued . " A number of individual councils have not yet signed , and we are working with them to reach a conclusion . " <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@82759231 <h> UN : Israel has advanced 22,000 housing units in West Bank <p> UNITED NATIONS ( AP ) -- The U.N . Mideast envoy said Wednesday that Israel advanced or approved plans for over 22,000 housing units in West Bank settlements and east Jerusalem in the three years since the Security Council adopted a resolution condemning settlements in lands the Palestinians want for their future state . <p> Nickolay Mladenov told the Security Council that in addition , Israel issued tenders for some 8,000 housing units since the December 2016 resolution , which also declared that the settlements have " no legal validity . " <p> He said the numbers " should be of serious concern to all those who continue to support the establishment of an independent and viable Palestinian state alongside Israel . " <p> U.N . Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said in a report to the council circulated Wednesday that the settlements have " no legal effect . " He declared that construction and approvals " must cease immediately and completely . " <p> " The existence and expansion of settlements fuel resentment and hopelessness among the Palestinian population and significantly heighten Israeli-Palestinian tensions , " the U.N . chief said . " In addition , they continue to undermine the prospects for ending the ( Israeli ) occupation and achieving the two-state solution by systematically eroding the possibility of establishing a contiguous and viable Palestinian state . " <p> Guterres said he regrets the Trump administration 's announcement on Nov. 18 that it no longer views " the establishment of Israeli civilian settlements in the West Bank " as " per se , inconsistent with international law . " <p> Mladenov was reporting to the council on implementation of the 2016 resolution . <p> The resolution was approved by the council when the United States , in the final weeks of the Obama administration , abstained rather than using its veto to support longtime ally Israel as it had done many times previously . <p> " It is one-sided . It is unfairly critical of Israel , " she said . " And had I been the ambassador at the time of the vote on the resolution , I would have vetoed it . " <p> Palestinian Ambassador Riyad Mansour said two words can summarize the reality for Palestinians : " confinement " in Gaza and the West Bank and " expansion " for Israeli settlements . <p> In Area C , which represents 60% of the West Bank and is under exclusive Israeli control and home to dozens of Israeli settlements , only 1% of land has been planned for Palestinian development , Mansour said . In east Jerusalem , which the Palestinians want as the capital of their future state , only 13% is zoned for Palestinian construction , he said . <p> Mladenov said Israel had taken no steps to " cease all settlement activities " and its demolitions and seizures of Palestinian-owned structures also continued . <p> He warned that " the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is in a fragile phase with the occupation deepening , political uncertainty prevailing , and volatile regional dynamics threatening to further destabilize the situation . " <p> Without the commitment of Israel , the Palestinians and the international community " to pursue concrete measures that will lead to genuine political progress , the situation will continue to worsen , " the U.N . envoy said . <p> On a positive note , he welcomed discussions on holding Palestinian legislative and presidential elections in 2020 , which would be the first since 2006 . " The international community should support this process , " he said . <p> Copyright 2019 The Associated Press . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed . <h> Watch this discussion.Stop watching this discussion . <h> ( 0 ) comments <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article . 
@@82786327 <p> Here 's the latest for Monday December 30th : U.S. announces military strikes in Iraq and Syria ; North Korea 's Kim Jong Un calls for unspecified offensive ; Police : Armed parishioners kill Texas church gunman ; New York stabbing suspect pleads not guilty . <p> A man accused of attacking a Hannukah celebration in New York state pleaded not guilty to five counts of attempted murder and one count of burglary . Grafton E. Thomas was arrested within two hours of the attack . ( Dec. 30 ) <p> Japan has revised a roadmap for the tsunami-wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant cleanup , further delaying the removal of thousands of spent fuel units that remain in cooling pools since the 2011 disaster . ( Dec. 27 ) <p> Israel 's prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu was rushed off the stage of an election rally on Wednesday after sirens rang out , warning of a rocket attack from the Gaza Strip . Authorities confirmed that a defensive missile intercepted the rocket . ( Dec. 26 ) <p> Three adults were killed in an apparent murder-suicide on Christmas Eve while four young children were inside the home , authorities in Lakeland , Florida said . The children were safely removed from the home . ( Dec. 25 ) 
@@82788236 <p> Here 's the latest for Monday December 30th : U.S. announces military strikes in Iraq and Syria ; North Korea 's Kim Jong Un calls for unspecified offensive ; Police : Armed parishioners kill Texas church gunman ; New York stabbing suspect pleads not guilty . <p> A man accused of attacking a Hannukah celebration in New York state pleaded not guilty to five counts of attempted murder and one count of burglary . Grafton E. Thomas was arrested within two hours of the attack . ( Dec. 30 ) <p> Japan has revised a roadmap for the tsunami-wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant cleanup , further delaying the removal of thousands of spent fuel units that remain in cooling pools since the 2011 disaster . ( Dec. 27 ) <p> Israel 's prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu was rushed off the stage of an election rally on Wednesday after sirens rang out , warning of a rocket attack from the Gaza Strip . Authorities confirmed that a defensive missile intercepted the rocket . ( Dec. 26 ) <p> Three adults were killed in an apparent murder-suicide on Christmas Eve while four young children were inside the home , authorities in Lakeland , Florida said . The children were safely removed from the home . ( Dec. 25 ) 
@@82795236 <p> Here 's the latest for Monday December 30th : U.S. announces military strikes in Iraq and Syria ; North Korea 's Kim Jong Un calls for unspecified offensive ; Police : Armed parishioners kill Texas church gunman ; New York stabbing suspect pleads not guilty . <p> A man accused of attacking a Hannukah celebration in New York state pleaded not guilty to five counts of attempted murder and one count of burglary . Grafton E. Thomas was arrested within two hours of the attack . ( Dec. 30 ) <p> Japan has revised a roadmap for the tsunami-wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant cleanup , further delaying the removal of thousands of spent fuel units that remain in cooling pools since the 2011 disaster . ( Dec. 27 ) <p> Israel 's prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu was rushed off the stage of an election rally on Wednesday after sirens rang out , warning of a rocket attack from the Gaza Strip . Authorities confirmed that a defensive missile intercepted the rocket . ( Dec. 26 ) <p> Three adults were killed in an apparent murder-suicide on Christmas Eve while four young children were inside the home , authorities in Lakeland , Florida said . The children were safely removed from the home . ( Dec. 25 ) 
@@82827629 <p> A man accused of attacking a Hannukah celebration in New York state pleaded not guilty to five counts of attempted murder and one count of burglary . Grafton E. Thomas was arrested within two hours of the attack . ( Dec. 30 ) <p> An Iranian-backed militia says the death toll from U.S. military strikes in Iraq and Syria against its fighters had risen to 25 , and vowed to exact revenge . The Associated Press viewed the aftermath of airstrikes in western Iraq . ( Dec. 30 ) <p> Japan has revised a roadmap for the tsunami-wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant cleanup , further delaying the removal of thousands of spent fuel units that remain in cooling pools since the 2011 disaster . ( Dec. 27 ) <p> Israel 's prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu was rushed off the stage of an election rally on Wednesday after sirens rang out , warning of a rocket attack from the Gaza Strip . Authorities confirmed that a defensive missile intercepted the rocket . ( Dec. 26 ) <p> Three adults were killed in an apparent murder-suicide on Christmas Eve while four young children were inside the home , authorities in Lakeland , Florida said . The children were safely removed from the home . ( Dec. 25 ) 
@@82828930 <h> Banksy unveils ' modified nativity ' scene in Bethlehem <p> The elusive street artist 's latest work features a " modified nativity " scene : Joseph and Mary kneeling beside Jesus in a manger set beside a monstrous concrete wall . <p> The wall appears to be pierced by a mortar shell , leaving a mark that resembles a guiding star . Graffitied on the wall are the words " love " and " peace , " in English and French . <p> The installation , dubbed " Scar of Bethlehem , " was unveiled on Saturday at the Walled Off Hotel in Bethlehem . The artist also announced it on Instagram . <p> " It is a nativity , " the hotel 's manager Wissam Salsaa told AFP . " Banksy has his own contribution to Christmas . " <p> " It is a great way to bring up the story of Bethlehem , the Christmas story , in a different way -- to make people think more " of how Israel 's military occupation impacts Palestinians . <p> Banksy opened the Walled Off Hotel in 2017 to draw attention to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . <p> The hotel bills itself as having the worst view in the world . Nearly every window opens up to a 30-foot high wall , part of a concrete and fence barrier that snakes hundreds of miles through the West Bank . Israel says the barrier provides protection from attacks . Palestinians say it 's a land grab , as much of the barrier is constructed in the Palestinian territory . In 2004 , The International Court of Justice at The Hague ruled that the barrier is illegal . <p> Each of the hotel 's nine rooms and presidential suite includes art by Banksy critiquing Israel 's occupation , including its Jewish-only settlements , military checkpoints and extensive surveillance system . <p> The England-based artist is a longtime critic of Israel . The artist 's work can be seen on walls and sides of buildings throughout the Palestinian territories , including Gaza . <p> " Banksy is trying to be a voice for those that can not speak , " Salsaa said . Banksy " is creating a new model of resistance through art . " 
@@82830532 <h> Banksy takes politically charged Nativity scene to Bethlehem <p> A new artwork dubbed " Scar of Bethlehem " by the artist Banksy is displayed in The Walled Off Hotel , in the West Bank city of Bethlehem , Sunday , Dec. 22 , 2019 . <p> A new artwork dubbed " Scar of Bethlehem " by the artist Banksy is displayed in The Walled Off Hotel , in the West Bank city of Bethlehem , Sunday , Dec. 22 , 2019 . <p> Photo : Majdi Mohammed , AP <p> Photo : Majdi Mohammed , AP <p> Image 1of/9 <p> Caption <p> Close <p> Image 1 of 9 <p> A new artwork dubbed " Scar of Bethlehem " by the artist Banksy is displayed in The Walled Off Hotel , in the West Bank city of Bethlehem , Sunday , Dec. 22 , 2019 . <p> A new artwork dubbed " Scar of Bethlehem " by the artist Banksy is displayed in The Walled Off Hotel , in the West Bank city of Bethlehem , Sunday , Dec. 22 , 2019 . <p> Photo : Majdi Mohammed , AP <p> Banksy takes politically charged Nativity scene to Bethlehem <p> 1 / 9 <p> Back to Gallery <p> BETHLEHEM , West Bank ( AP ) -- The mysterious street artist known as Banksy has displayed a politically charged Nativity scene in Bethlehem , the town revered as Jesus ' birthplace , just in time for the busy Christmas season . <p> The artwork , named " Scar of Bethlehem , " depicts the birth of Jesus under Israel 's West Bank separation barrier with a bullet hole shaped like a star . The piece is displayed at the " Walled Off Hotel , " a Palestinian guesthouse in Bethlehem that was designed by Banksy and is filled with his artwork . <p> Wisam Salsaa , the hotel manager , said the British artist recently sent the new piece to the hotel . <p> " We see there is a scar , " he said . " A hole on the wall marks the wall and the life in Bethlehem . " <p> The hotel , which overlooks the separation barrier , sarcastically boasts " the worst view in the world . " Since its opening in 2017 , it has become a popular tourist draw . <p> " Banksy is trying to remind the world that people of Bethlehem , where Christmas was started , are not celebrating Christmas like the rest of the world , " he said . <p> Israel built the barrier in the early 2000s in what it said was a move to prevent Palestinian suicide bombers in the West Bank from reaching Israel . The Palestinians consider the barrier illegal and call it an Israeli land grab , noting that it has engulfed large chunks of the West Bank onto the Israeli " side . " <p> Bethlehem has been affected especially hard by the barrier , which surrounds large parts of the city . <p> Tourists flocked to the hotel Sunday to see the Nativity scene and other works by Banksy as part of their visit to the city during the peak Christmas season . <p> Rafael Edelmuller , a 37-year-old tourist from London , said he was looking forward to seeing the art after seeing most of Banksy 's work in Amsterdam and London . <p> " So we saw the Church of Nativity and then the second thing that we wanted to see was the wall with the Banksy hotel and the artwork , " Edelmuller said . <p> The British street artist , who carefully protects his anonymity , is believed to have made several past appearances in the Palestinian territories . <p> In one work , a mural of a girl pulled upward by balloons was painted on the separation barrier facing the hotel . Banksy also is believed to have sneaked into the Gaza Strip to draw four murals there . One was painted on a remaining piece of a building destroyed during the 2014 war between Israel and Gaza 's ruling Hamas militant group and featured the Greek goddess Niobe cowering against the rubble of a destroyed house . <p> <p> Associated Press writer Imad Isseid in Bethlehem , West Bank , contributed to this report . 
@@82834427 <h> Search form <h> TRENDING : <h> SPONSORED : <h> Netanyahu calls ICC war crimes probe anti-Semitic <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin NetanyahuBenjamin ( Bibi ) NetanyahuMORE claimed Sunday that efforts by the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) to investigate alleged war crimes committed by Israeli forces in Palestinian-controlled areas were rooted in anti-Semitism . <p> Reuters reported that the Israeli leader made the accusation at a Hannukah ceremony in Jerusalem in front of the Western Wall , a holy site for Judaism , and claimed that the ICC was opposing the right of Israel to exist as a Jewish state . <p> " New edicts are being cast against the Jewish people - anti-Semitic edicts by the International Criminal Court telling us that we , the Jews standing here next to this wall ... in this city , in this country , have no right to live here and that by doing so , we are committing a war crime , " he said , according to the news service . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> " Pure anti-Semitism , " he added of the ICC 's efforts . <p> His remark comes a day after the ICC 's chief prosecutor announced that she wished to open a war crimes investigation into Israeli actions taken in the West Bank , Gaza Strip , and east Jerusalem . The investigation stems from a case brought to the body by Palestinian officials in 2015 . <p> " There are no substantial reasons to believe that an investigation would not serve the interests of justice , " Fatou Bensouda said Saturday , according to the BBC . <p> The director of the Israeli human rights group B'Tselem reacted to the news in a statement , tweeting that " legal acrobatics " by Netanyahu 's administration should not be allowed to halt the investigation . <p> . @btselem 's director called the prosecutor 's finding ' the only possible outcome arising from the facts . ' " Israel 's legal acrobatics in an attempt to whitewash its crimes must not be allowed to stop international legal efforts to , at long last , hold it to account , " @HagaiElAd said https : //t.co/tu4O68w2J4 
@@82835736 <h> Syrian state media says Israel is firing missiles into Syria <p> Syrian state TV gave no further details but residents of Damascus said explosions could be heard near the capital . State TV said one of the Israeli missiles was shot down near the Damascus suburb of Aqraba . <p> There was also no immediate comment from Israel . <p> The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , an opposition war monitoring group that has activists around the country , said the missile attack targeted Iranian and Syrian military positions near Damascus . <p> There were no immediate reports on casualties . <p> In neighboring Lebanon , Israeli warplanes could be heard flying in the country 's airspace at the time of the airstrikes in Syria . Damascus had said in the past that Israeli warplanes have fired missiles into Syria from Lebanon 's airspace . <p> Last month , Israel said it struck dozens of Iranian targets in Syria in a " wide-scale " operation in response to rocket fire on the Israeli-controlled Golan Heights the day before . <p> Israel has repeatedly struck Iran-linked targets in Syria in recent years and has warned against any permanent Iranian presence on the frontier . <p> Iran has forces based in Syria , Israel 's northern neighbor , and supports Hezbollah militants in Lebanon . <p> In November , Israel killed a senior commander of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad , an Iran-backed group in the Gaza Strip , setting off two days of heavy fighting . A separate airstrike targeted but failed to kill an Islamic Jihad leader in Damascus , underscoring the risk of escalation at various pressure points across the volatile region . <p> Copyright 2019 by The Associated Press . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed. 
@@82901130 <h> Gaza protests against Israel suspended for 3 months : organisers <p> Weekly protests in Gaza began in March 2018 , calling for an end to Israel 's blockade of the enclave and for Palestinians to be allowed to return to their ancestral homes inside the Jewish state ( AFP Photo/MOHAMMED ABED ) <p> Gaza City ( Palestinian Territories ) ( AFP ) - Weekly Hamas-backed demonstrations along the Gaza-Israel border will be suspended for three months , protest organisers in the Palestinian enclave said Thursday . <p> Protests on Friday would be the last until March 30 , 2020 , Talal abu Zarifa , a member of the organising committee for the ' March of Return ' , told AFP . <p> The weekly protests began in March 2018 , calling for an end to Israel 's blockade of the Gaza Strip and for Palestinians to be allowed to return to their ancestral homes inside the Jewish state . <p> When they resume , the demonstrations will be monthly , rather than weekly , Zarifa said . <p> He did not give a specific reason for the decision , but the number of attendees has dwindled in recent months . <p> Israel contends that any ' return ' of Palestinians to their ancestral homes would mean an end to its status as a Jewish state . <p> It accused the Gaza Strip 's Islamist rulers Hamas of orchestrating the protests as cover for cross-border attacks . <p> But Hamas has over the last year gradually shaped an informal -- if precarious and at times intermittent -- truce with Israel , under which the Jewish state has slightly eased its blockade of the enclave in exchange for calm along the border . <p> As part of the agreements , Israel has allowed Gulf state Qatar to bring millions of dollars worth of fuel and cash into Gaza every month , easing a humanitarian crisis . <p> Demonstrations have seen Palestinians throw stones and molotov cocktails at Israeli forces along the border , who have used live fire on protesters . <p> The protests initially attracted tens of thousands of people . <p> At least 348 Palestinians have been killed in Gaza by Israeli fire since the marches began , the majority during the demonstrations , according to an AFP toll . <p> A further 7,800 people have been wounded by gunfire , according to the World Health Organization . 
@@82901133 <h> Palestinians to scale back protests on Israel-Gaza border <p> 2 Min Read <p> FILE PHOTO : Palestinian demonstrators shout during clashes with Israeli troops at a protest demanding the right to return to their homeland , at the Israel-Gaza border east of Gaza City April 6 , 2018 . REUTERS/Mohammed Salem <p> GAZA ( Reuters ) - Palestinians in Gaza will scale back protests along the fortified border with Israel , factions in the strip said on Thursday , in a sign of a lasting detente between Israel and Gaza 's Islamist rulers Hamas along the volatile frontier . <p> For nearly 20 months , Palestinians have held weekly demonstrations dubbed the " Great March of Return " , which have often turned violent as people throw rocks and firebombs at Israeli troops who respond by shooting with live fire . <p> Gaza medical officials say 214 Palestinians have been killed since the Friday protests began in March 2018 . In that period , an Israeli soldier was shot dead by a Palestinian sniper on the border during the demonstrations . <p> However , the protests have tapered off in recent months . Analysts attribute the decline to diplomatic efforts by Egypt , Qatar and the United Nations to fend off a wider escalation between Israel and Hamas . <p> The Higher National Committee , a collection of Gaza-based factions and civil society organizations which organize the protests , said there will be a protest this Friday but that demonstrations thereafter would be held monthly and on national occasions . <p> The protesters have called for an end to a security blockade imposed on Gaza by Israel and Egypt , and for Palestinians to have the right to return to land from which their families fled or were forced to flee during Israel 's 1948 founding . <p> Israel rejects any such return , saying that would eliminate its Jewish majority . <p> Israel seized Gaza in a 1967 war and pulled out its settlers and troops in 2005 . It says its blockade is necessary to stop weapons reaching Hamas , which fought three wars with Israel and fired thousands of rockets at it in the past decade . 
@@82902127 <p> TEL AVIV -- Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu rallied members of his Likud party to back him in Thursday 's primary election , touting his security credentials and high international profile to try to chase off the first serious internal challenge to his leadership and extend his decadelong grip on power . <p> Since its inception in the 1970s , the conservative party has had just four leaders , none of whom have ever been voted out by party members . <p> This time , Gideon Saar , a 53-year-old rising star in Likud who has served as interior and education minister , hoped to convince the party faithful that new leadership was needed to win national elections in March , after Mr. Netanyahu failed in two previous votes to draw enough support to form a new government . <p> Facing corruption charges and , in some quarters , rising consternation over his dependence on religious parties , Mr. Netanyahu has campaigned the length and breadth of Israel in recent weeks in a bid to secure a convincing win . <p> On Wednesday , aides rushed the 70-year-old prime minister offstage at a campaign stop in the southern city of Ashkelon after militants in Gaza fired a rocket at the city . Israel responded by carrying out airstrikes against militant positions in Gaza belonging to Hamas , the group that controls the enclave . <p> The weather , too , has threatened the scale of the turnout , with a harsh winter storm lashing the country with rainstorms and high winds as the 116,000 eligible voters began to cast their votes . Turnout appeared to be lower than for a Likud primary in February , according to a Likud spokesperson . <h> Related <p> " Great forces , and not just the weather , are trying to get you to stay home , " Mr. Netanyahu wrote on Twitter as he urged voters to brave the elements . " A large victory for me in the primary will ensure a large victory for Likud in the parliamentary elections . " <p> The polls were set close at 11 p.m . Israeli time , with final results expected Friday morning . <p> In leadership contests since 2007 , Mr. Netanyahu has won more than 70% of the vote . Anything less than that this time may deal a blow to his image as the party 's uncontested leader and harm his chances in the national election , the third in the space of a year . <p> At stake is Mr. Netanyahu 's continued tenure as prime minister , the post from which he seeks to persuade Israel 's parliament to grant him immunity from prosecution after his indictment last month on charges of bribery , fraud and breach of trust . Mr. Netanyahu denies any wrongdoing . If he retains his seat as prime minister , political analysts say he will likely receive preferential treatment from the legal system and have more leverage to amass the votes needed in the Knesset , Israel 's parliament , to secure immunity . <p> During the primary campaign , Mr. Netanyahu repeatedly brandished his security record and his close personal ties to world leaders , including President Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin . <p> He has also sought to depict himself as the victim of a witch hunt by Israel 's national police and legal authorities , telling supporters their democratic rights are being subverted . <p> " They wo n't decide for us . Only we will decide who will lead the Likud and the country , " Mr. Netanyahu wrote in a tweet Thursday . <p> Rena Riger , who served as Mr. Netanyahu 's foreign-affairs director from 2000 to 20003 , while he was n't in office , said she voted for the premier on Thursday because he was the only one with the skill and experience to influence world leaders . <p> " He 's the only global leader that can bring Putin and Trump together , " she said , adding that whil she worked alongside Mr. Saar in Mr. Netanyahu 's office and liked him , " his time has not yet come . " <p> Mr. Saar has long been considered a standout among a rising generation of politicians . His campaign recognized Mr. Netanyahu 's achievements but said the premier 's long career has left him politically stymied and unable to form coalitions . <p> In a chess analogy , Mr. Saar 's campaign ran an advertisement that compared Mr. Netanyahu to a king -- he is sometimes called the " King of Israel " -- who is trapped in every direction and can not move . The advertisement depicted Mr. Saar as a knight , a chess piece with the power to jump over an opponent 's pieces into safety and perhaps into a winning position . <p> " Today is a fateful day for the Likud and for the country . Today it is in our power ... to ensure the continuation of the nationalist camp 's rule , " Mr. Saar tweeted on Thursday . <p> Ofer Cohen , a 55-year-old businessman from Beersheba , said he voted for Mr. Saar because he believed the popular former minister would be able to break Israel 's political deadlock by joining forces with politicians who wo n't work with Mr. Netanyahu . <p> " Netanyahu is blocked , and we want to continue to be in power , " he said . <p> The mere holding of a leadership primary at this pivotal stage for Likud shows the party is no longer singularly united under Mr. Netanyahu , according to David Bitan , a Likud lawmaker and a close ally of the premier . <p> " We 've returned to the age of differing camps within Likud because of these elections , " Mr. Bitan said Thursday in an interview with Army Radio . <p> Corrections &amp; Amplifications The Likud party has had four leaders since its inception . An earlier version of this article incorrectly said it had held four leadership elections . ( Dec. 26 , 2019 ) <p> WSJ opens select articles to reader conversation to promote thoughtful dialogue . See the ' Join the Conversation ' area to the rightbelow for stories open to conversation . For more information , please reference our community guidelines . Email feedback and questions to moderator@wsj.com. 
@@82903024 <h> Organisers say Gaza protests to be scaled back <p> ' March of Return ' protests to be held monthly from March as negotiations towards a Hamas-Israel ceasefire continue . <p> 26 Dec 2019 16:32 GMT <p> Palestinians in Gaza have been protesting each Friday for almost 20 months File : Ibraheem Abu Mustafa/Reuters <p> Palestinians in the besieged Gaza Strip will scale back protests along the fortified separation barrier with Israel , factions in the coastal territory have said , in a potential sign of a lasting detente between Israel and Gaza 's rulers Hamas . <p> The Higher National Committee , a collection of Gaza-based factions and civil society organisations that organise the protests , said there will be a rally this Friday but that demonstrations thereafter would be held monthly and on national occasions , beginning in March . <h> More : <p> For nearly 20 months , Palestinians have held weekly demonstrations dubbed the " Great March of Return " in what began as a grassroots effort to draw attention to the difficult living conditions in Gaza and call for the right of Palestinians to return to long-lost homes in what is now Israel . <p> Some 80 percent of Gaza 's two million people are refugees or descendants of refugees . Israel rejects any such return , saying that it would eliminate its Jewish majority . <p> However , Hamas quickly took control of the protests , which have sometimes turned violent as young men have attempted to cut through the separation barrier and thrown rocks and firebombs at Israeli troops who have used live ammunition against protesters . <p> Israeli fire has killed some 215 Palestinians , most of them unarmed , including 47 people under 18 and two women , according to the Gaza-based Al Mezan Center for Human Rights . Hundreds of others have been seriously wounded in the demonstrations . <p> Israel has said it was defending itself against attacks and infiltration attempts but Palestinians and international human rights groups have accused Israel of using excessive force . <p> Some 215 Palestinians and one Israeli soldier have been killed in the demonstrations File : Ibraheem Abu Mustafa/Reuters <p> The protests have tapered off in recent months , which analysts attribute to diplomatic efforts by Egypt , Qatar and the United Nations to avert wider escalation of the conflict between Israel and Hamas , and broker a ceasefire agreement that would ease the crippling 12-year Israeli-Egyptian blockade . <p> Israel has said any progress would depend on a halt to the protests , as well as rocket fire out of Gaza . <p> Late on Wednesday , a rocket attack believed to have been launched by the Islamic Jihad group forced Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu off the stage during a campaign stop in southern Israel . Israel responded by bombing a series of Hamas targets . <p> Israel says it holds Hamas responsible for all fire out of Gaza , even rockets launched by rival armed groups . 
