@@71447651 <h> The Unfinished ' Coup ' <p> By Dr Ramzy Baroud . Dated : 12/5/2019 11:01:13 AM <h> The end of Netanyahu 's era and the political earthquake ahead <p> This time , nothing seems to work . Israeli Prime Minister , Benjamin Netanyahu , has tried every trick in the book to save his political career and to avoid possible prison time . But for Israel 's longest-serving leader , the honeymoon is certainly almost over.It is an " attempted coup " , is how Netanyahu described his indictment on charges of fraud , bribery and breach of trust by Israeli Attorney General , Avichai Mandelblit , on November 21 . Netanyahu 's loyalists agree . On November 26 , a few thousand Likud party supporters gathered in Tel Aviv , under the title " Stop the coup " , to express their anger at what they see as a massive conspiracy involving Mandelblit , the media , various state institutions , and " disloyal " Likud party members.Netanyahu 's main Likud party rival , Gideon Sa'ar , received much of the verbal abuse . Sa'ar , who almost faded into oblivion after leaving the Knesset in 2014 , emerged once more on Israel 's political scene following the April 2019 elections . Netanyahu 's failure to form a government then was compounded by a similar failure to cobble up a government coalition after the second general elections , held within a few months in September.Since 2014 , no one dared challenge Netanyahu 's reign over the Likud . " There was no need to do so , " wrote Yossi Verter in Haaretz on November 29 . Netanyahu " brought them to power , time after time . But few things happened since then . " It is because of these " few things " that Sa'ar dared to challenge Netanyahu once more . What is significant about Sa'ar 's leadership challenge is not the possibility of him unseating Netanyahu , but the fact that the " king of Israel " no longer commands the type of fear and respect that he has painstakingly espoused over a decade of nearly uncontested rule.As soon as Sa'ar called for new Likud primaries , Netanyahu 's political minions , such as Foreign Minister , Yisrael Katz , and other heavyweight politicians - Nir Barkat , Miri Regev , among others - pounced on Sa'ar , describing him as " disloyal " . The Tel Aviv protesters had far more demeaning words for the rebel Likud member . However , despite the deafening screams and the name-calling , Netanyahu conceded , promising on November 23 , that he would set up and face a party leadership challenge within weeks.Embattled Netanyahu has no other options . Although he may still come out in the lead should the primaries be held on time , he can not afford deepening existing doubts within his party . If he fails to ensure his legitimacy within his own Likud party , he could hardly make the case of being able to lead all of Israel following a possible third general election in March.However , Sa'ar is not Netanyahu 's biggest problem.The picture for Netanyahu - in fact , for all of Israel - is getting more complicated by the day . The Israeli leader has successfully managed to coalesce his own political and family interests within the collective interests of all Israelis . " I 'm doing everything required to ensure the government 's and cabinet 's work is getting done in all the ways required to ensure the safety of Israel 's citizens , " he told a reporter on November 23 , insisting that he is still carrying out his duties as a Prime Minister " in the best possible way , out of supreme devotion to Israel 's security . " Desperate to hang on to power for as long as possible , Netanyahu still employs the same political discourse that helped him unify many sectors of Israeli society for over ten years . But that ploy is no longer reaping the intended result . For one , Netanyahu 's main rival in the Blue and White ( Kahol Lavan ) Party , Benny Gantz , has neutralized the Prime Minister 's success in manipulating the term " security " , for he , too , is an advocate of war , whenever and wherever war is possible.Netanyahu 's last war on Gaza on November 12 , where the Israeli army killed 34 Palestinians , including women and children , is a case in point . During the short-lived destructive war , Gantz was busy trying to form a government , as Netanyahu had already failed that task . Resorting to war , Netanyahu tried to send three messages , all intended for Israeli audiences : one to Mandelblit , to postpone the indictment ; the second to Gantz , to reconsider his decision to block him from taking part in a future government , and the final one to the Israeli public , to remind them of his own supposed ability to reign in " terror " . But all has failed : Gantz announced his inability to form a government on November 20 , preferring failure over extending a lifeline to Netanyahu , whose indictment was imminent . Indeed , the Attorney General 's decision arrived on November 21 , making it the first time in the history of the country that a Prime Minister is indicted while in office . Worse , Blue and White widened its lead significantly over the Likud , according to a public opinion poll commissioned by Israel 's Channel 12 television , which was published on November 26 . But what other languages , aside from that of war - in the name of security - and haphazard accusations of political conspiracies , can Netanyahu possibly employ during this period ? Such tactics often worked in the past . In fact , they worked so well that the entire Netanyahu political doctrine was designed around them . Now , the Israeli leader has run out of ideas , and is quickly running out of allies as well , not only from without , such as his former ally and the head of Yisrael Beiteinu party , Avigdor Lieberman , but from within his own party as well.The reason that Netanyahu is still in power after all the setbacks and outright failures is the fact that his rivals are yet to mobilize the necessary votes and public support to oust him for good . It will certainly take more than Gantz alone to dislodge stubborn Netanyahu from office , for the latter has consolidated and entrenched his rule through an intricate system of political patronage that runs deep through many facets of Israeli society.With this in mind , it seems that the end of the Netanyahu era is finally upon us , but it is likely to be longer and uglier than expected . While it remains true that a fundamental change in Israel 's political system will neither deliver peace and justice to Palestinians - or stability to the region - it could potentially constitute the equivalent of a political earthquake within Israel itself , the consequences of which are yet to be seen.Dr . Ramzy Baroud is a journalist , author and editor of The Palestine Chronicle . His last book is The Last Earth : A Palestinian Story ( Pluto Press , London ) and his forthcoming book is These Chains Will Be Broken : Palestinian Stories of Struggle and Defiance in Israeli Prisons ( Clarity Press , Atlanta ) . Baroud is a Non-resident Senior Research Fellow at the Center for Islam and Global Affairs ( CIGA ) , Istanbul Zaim University ( IZU ) . His website is www.ramzybaroud.net. 
@@71447652 <h> Israeli model for Kashmir <p> Kashmir Times . Dated : 12/5/2019 10:30:45 PM <h> BJP-government 's silence on Israeli model advocated by Indian diplomat is manifestation of tacit approval <p> A serving Indian diplomat in the United States advocating the pernicious Israeli model of apartheid in Gaza strip for Kashmir is a matter of grave concern . The gravity of the situation is further enhanced because the BJP-government has chosen to maintain silence over such remarks that signify a virtual subversion of the Indian Constitution and the principles on which it is structured . The deafening silence is a manifestation of the tacit approval of this rather dangerous , communal , racist and inhuman desire to not only alter the demography of Kashmir but also turn its residents into second rate citizens . One needs to only skim through the surface of the Israeli handling of its West Bank area where the Palestinians have been walled out after usurping their land to understand the brutal and savage nature of such a policy that is now being shamelessly and openly espoused . The diplomat was addressing a gathering of Kashmiri Pandits in New York . The return and rehabilitation of Kashmiri Pandits who were driven out of their homes in 1990s is indeed important and unfortunately has not been taken up by successive governments in the last three decades . However , their tragedy can not be used as a weapon to demonise the Muslims of the Valley and give legitimacy to the case of pushing them out of the Valley . It is in fitness of things to point out that a proper accounting of the circumstances and reasons for the flight of the Pandits has never been done . Though one of the biggest tragedies of Kashmir , it remains contested between many extreme perceptions that need to be reconciled , not used to perpetuate the pernicious idea of propping up one community against the other . Secondly , with the special status of the state gone , it is less likely that those advocating such a dangerous idea have only Kashmiri Pandits in mind in their vision of new settlers . The silence of the government over the remarks of the Indian diplomat raises pertinent questions of whether the abrogation of Article 370 is the stepping stone for emulating the ugly policy of brutalization that Israel follows against its Palestinian citizens in abject violation of international laws and humanity . Stripping Jammu and Kashmir of its special status now puts the Centre in absolute command of the ownership of land in Kashmir . India is not Israel . India is a democratic country where the centre-piece of the constitution is the fundamental rights of the citizens based on the principles of equality , justice , liberty and secularism . Opposed to this , Israel is a fascist country that promotes divisive politics , hatred and war . Such an idea , therefore , is an onslaught on constitutional values . The Israel model does not only jeopardise the interests of the Kashmiri Muslims but also those of the Jammuites irrespective of their religious affiliations . Besides , it also lowers the prestige and image of India internationally . Such a thought process of the fascist forces in India should be an eye-opener and warning signal to those , who vouch and appreciate for diversity of the country . With India 's economy sliding and slipping into an abyss , soon the international significance of the country for the global economy is going to end . Whatever , some in the BJP government may wish to project , the fact is that its Kashmir actions have already received much flak in the international community . The BJP government has important lessons to learn before its xenophobic Kashmir obsession adversely impacts the entire country . 
@@71484879 <h> Read Next <p> You name it and Internet has it all -- whether it be the Internet of Things , Internet of Information , Internet of Bodies , Internet of energy , Internet of Money , and now redefining the entire segment , the world is witnessing the Internet of Skills ( IoS ) . <p> As the name suggests , the Internet of Skills is a process of technology where one can transfer knowledge , expertise , and skills in real-time , without the restriction of physical boundaries . <p> Capitalising on the era of unprecedented Internet speed along with the help of artificial intelligence , the Internet of Skills aims to revolutionise servicing capabilities by offering a solution to digitally deliver one 's skill and expertise to the rest of the world . The primary aim is to extend one 's knowledge in order to teach , learn and interact immediately to any part of the world breaking the geographical barriers . It allows remote operation of technology share between two parties . <p> It is estimated that with the revenue of $20 trillion per annum worldwide , which is 20% of today 's global GDP , IoS will be a huge enabler for skillset delivery , becoming an important technology for service-driven economies around the world . A report predicted that by the year 2020 , 20.4 billion IoT devices will be connected . Researchers believe that such technology will make it easier for best engineers or doctors to provide their services instantaneously , along with creative artists sharing their expertise to teach enthusiasts around the world . <h> Concept &amp; The Tech Behind <p> Coined by King 's College Professor Mischa Dohler and his team in London , the term Internet of Skills ( IoS ) was first developed to help doctors , around the world , in treating patients who are miles away , especially in remote locations , where medical skill is lacking . The team paired up virtual reality with the technology in hand to link doctors with their patients in the most innovative way possible . Sectors like academia , government , healthcare as well as industrial communities are now accepting IoS -- putting human skills at the centre of the technology to revolutionise the operations . <p> The engineering behind the technology integrates end-to-end low latency along with haptic ( relating to the sense of touch ) information transfer instead of the traditional way , where only audio and visual knowledge transfer was done on Internet platforms . The technology claims that with the help of robotics , virtual reality , and artificial intelligence , knowledge , and expertise -- in the field of remote maintenance , remote surgeries , remote teaching and other sorts of physical training -- can be transferred from the input source to destination in no time . A cyber-physical system ( CPS ) results from the integration of different systems are used to control the physical process and uses the feedback to adapt to new conditions in real-time . <p> The three main components of IoS are : <p> Visual technology , which relies on virtual reality headsets <p> Audio component , which requires high-quality earphones or microphones <p> Touch technology , where wearable devices come into the picture <p> Explaining the technology , Dohler mentioned in a blog post , " Imagine this so-called exoskeleton that one can put on their hand , which will pressurise the hands and the joints , guiding the hand to move gently at the beginning , and nudge essentially the body into the right shape and in the right way , until the user 's muscle memory starts to grasp the movement . " <p> One important aspect of this innovative technology , which is also known as cyber-physical systems , is the capability of owning 5G . To bring IoS into life , one needs to encompass the short-latency capabilities of 5G with a response of 400 times faster than the blink of an eye . At present this technology is widely used for remote interactive teaching and remote repairing . <h> Industry Applications <p> With 5G 's ultra-reliable low latency communication , it will be possible to create real-time interactive systems , which will be capable of remotely delivering a virtual experience with a hint of touch . Such applications will create a seamless connection between humans and machines based on haptic interaction . <p> This technology aims to reengineer traditional business processes , along with fundamentally change the way businesses innovate , collaborate and exist , making it more sustainable . However , it requires a high quality of experience ( QoE ) for users to trust the network in order to perform critical operations and repairs . Some of the key areas where IoS can be applied are : <p> Healthcare : With the help of robotics , the Internet of Skills can easily be applied for remote diagnosis , remote surgeries , and treatment in order to reduce the time lag and resources . In fact , Ericsson 5G Tactile Internet Lab has recently collaborated with a team of professors and students of King 's College , London to come up with a revolutionary innovation to address the urgent need for better healthcare across the globe . The team with the help of cutting edge 5G networks has created this technology where doctors can use the haptic gloves along with audio and visual technologies to perform remote surgeries , via a robotic counterpart , on any patient anywhere in the world . <p> The gloves using the sensors provide touch feedback to the robot 's arms , whereas the VR equipment used by the surgeon will have the same environment as the patients . Experts of robotics believe that the introduction of 5G with zero lag in transferring information has definitely provided a new dimension to the whole sector of remote healthcare and robotic surgery . Many vendors are also using this exoskeleton technology in creating ways to support specially challenged and elderly people . <p> Business Communications : Many believe that a huge amount of resources and efforts are been used while communicating in our business environments . With the introduction of seamless connections along with haptic interactions , executives will be able to teleport themselves to the business location , which in turn will reduce the time lag as well as save resources . <p> E-commerce : Online shopping will be another aspect that can totally be revamped with the help of haptic technology . Users will soon be able to try out clothes or touch furniture before buying them online . <p> Some of the other use cases of this technology are to create industry automation , smart cities , self-driving vehicles , smart factories , and doing remote operations for businesses . Businesses will now be able to teleport the skills of their best engineers and doctors to high risk-based areas with the help of tactile technology . Ericsson claims that this technology has the potential to have an impact globally in conquering some of the biggest challenges of the world , such as remote monitoring/surgery of people in need ( e.g. applicable in Ebola-hit areas ) ; enabling remote education ( e.g. teaching a child in Gaza how to paint ) ; or enabling industrial remote decommissioning and servicing capabilities ( e.g. remote repair of a broken car in Africa ) . <p> Another important usage of haptic interaction is to reduce operational costs , which usually turns out to be one of the largest expenditures for companies . The Internet of Skills will reduce such unsolicited costs by matching specific needs in one business location with the best skill in another location . Additionally , technology is also helping Myanmar 's education sector to improve the abilities and subject-matter expertise of teachers in schools and colleges . It has been an ongoing project , since 2016 , as part of the National Educational Strategic Plan ( NESP ) . <h> Outlook <p> The combination of uninterrupted network and tactile technology is believed to be the next paradigm shift of the world , where individuals can share their knowledge , expertise and technical skills in real-time through a digital interface across any distance . Internet of Skills would eliminate the perception of distance and time , giving human immediacy the utmost importance . It marks the beginning of a massive transformation of the world from virtual reality to synchronised reality . " The Internet of Skills will democratise labour globally , the same way as the Internet has democratised knowledge , " believes Dohler . <h> Enjoyed this story ? Join our Telegram group . And be part of an engaging community . 
@@71489553 <h> Glimpses of Palestinian refugee camps then and now <p> Updated : December 17 , 2019 2:02:34 pm <p> Updated : December 17 , 2019 2:02:34 pm <p> 1 / 5 <p> Around them the Middle East lurched from conflict to civil war to peace and back again . But for Palestinian refugees in these camps , there has been little movement over decades . In pic : A combination picture shows a Palestinian woman holding a child at UNRWA 's health centre in Rafah camp in the southern Gaza Strip in 1969 and 2019 . ( UNRWA/Kay Brennan/Handout via REUTERS ) <p> 2 / 5 <p> A key presence in their lives is UNRWA , the United Nations agency which provides services and protection to 5.5 million Palestinian refugees . In pic : A combination picture shows Palestinian school girls waiting in line to collect UNRWA prepared food parcels during the first intifada in the Gaza Strip in this handout picture believed to be taken in 1988 and 2019 . ( UNRWA/Zaven Mazakian/Handout via REUTERS ) <p> 3 / 5 <p> The refugees want the right to return to their families ' former lands in pre-1948 Palestine , lands which now lie inside Israel . In pic : Palestinian students attend a class inside al-Falah Elementary School in Gaza Strip , in this handout picture believed to be taken in 1974 and 2019 . ( UNRWA/Zaven Mazakian/Handout via REUTERS ) <p> 4 / 5 <p> Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu has said that that UNRWA 's longevity had served to perpetuate , not solve , the refugee problem . In pic : Palestinian boys pose for a photo in Aida refugee camp in Bethlehem in the Israeli-occupied West Bank . ( Reuters ) <p> 5 / 5 <p> Many Israelis regard UNRWA - by far the largest humanitarian organisation handling Palestinian refugees - with suspicion , Reuters reported . In pic : Students attend a lesson inside a classroom in Jabal el-Hussein camp in Amman , Jordan , in this handout photo believed to be taken in 1971 . ( Reuters ) 
@@71504473 <h> Muslim World : From plight to power <p> Everywhere in the world we find Muslims subject to discrimination , excesses , harassment , and exploitation at the hands of world powers and their allies . Be it Palestine , Iraq , Afghanistan , or any other region , Muslims are at a receiving end ; and this despite the fact the Muslims have vast potential of men , material resources , the largest oil reserves , vast coastal lines , sea waters , important strategic geographical locations . <p> The Muslims have 57 independent nations and live in significant numbers in countries like USA , UK , Germany , France , China , and off course India has the largest Muslim population . Yet they stand exploited beyond words , why ? <p> One general reason is that Muslims have ignored Quran , Sunnah and the spirit of Islamic brotherhood . Muslim leaders are ignorant and hardly care for Islamic teachings . They only pursue selfish ends and are only after attaining political power . <p> During world War-II Adolph Hitler of Germany killed over six million Jews while millions escaped to different parts of the world . Palestinian Muslims offered them settlements in their own lands . But Jews ultimately occupied the land of innocent Palestinians and have been killing Palestinian 's ruthlessly at the behest of USA . <p> From 1800 AD to 1950 AD , 150 years , sixty thousand books stand published by anti-Muslim sections against Islam and Prophet Muhammad ( PBUH ) , which means that more than a book of blasphemous material was edited a day . It reveals the height of hatred towards Muslims of the world . <p> A survey too reveals that the growth of major religions in USA from 1934 to 1984 ( Fifty years period ) was conducted by a non-Muslim body and the results obtained indicated that Islam grew up 246 percent while Christianity 47 percent in those fifty years . <p> What sword was used by the Muslims in USA to covert Christians to Islam ? Media , both electronic and the print , is largely in the hands of non-Muslims . This gives them the advantage to malign Islam and Muslims . <p> It is a painful irony that others exploit the natural resources of Muslim world and also work in the Arab world in different capacities , eating at the revenue of Muslims . <p> Height of the things can be gauged by the fact that all nuclear powers , except its original inventor , have stolen the technology to build the nuclear weapons . <p> But whenever a Muslim nation tries the same , propaganada is unleashed against her , branding her as a " Rogue Nation " . <p> How Pakistan has been subject to a vilifying campaign in this regard and how Iran 's atomic programme is being scuttled are two glaring examples of this discrimination . Even earlier the atomic plant of Iraq was raised to ground by the Israelis . <p> Under these circumstances , the need has risen to integrate the broken and traumatized Ummah from Indonesia to Morocco and Kazakhstan to Sudan into a single unit , economically militarily , technologically , so that it becomes a power to be reckoned with . For that to happen following measures are required to be taken seriously : <p> Formation of Muslim Economic Community or and Common Muslim Market . The exploitation of natural resources and produce of the Muslim nations will get stopped and can lead to the establishment of economic power of Muslims . <p> Arabic language is required to be made the official language in all the Muslim nations across the globe . The nations like Indonesia , Pakistan , Bangladesh , Malaysia , Afghanistan , Iran Kazakhstan , Bosnia , and Chechnya , where Muslims rule but have the official languages other than Arabic have to take lead in making Arabic as the their official language . It will ensure the proper understanding among the Ummah . <p> Even in countries like USA , UK , Germany , India , and China , where Muslims constitute significant portion of population , the introduction of Arabic as the medium of instruction for Muslims deserves a thought . The educational institutions of international standard for academic and research purposes are required to be set up across the Muslim world . <p> The role of Arab League , Organization of Islamic Countries ( OIC ) and the Islamic Development Bank are not sufficient . These organistaions are to be reshaped and redesigned as per the aspiration of Muslims . <p> Currently , the Muslims constitute over 22 percent of the world population and have governments in the 57 countries , yet they not given a permanent seat in UNO . With the result , the concerns of the Muslims are not only ignored but get always ignored . Thus Muslims have no effective role in the world politics . Muslims must vacate UNO , if they are not given a permanent seat with veto power . Arab League and Organization of Islamic Countries are to be strengthened to the extent that the world has no option but to respond to these institutions meaningfully . <p> Israel is on a killing spree in Palestine since 1948 . What positive role UNO has played in restricting the ruthless and merciless Jews from massacring the innocent Palestinians ? Even countries like USA , UK , Germany , China , and India showed no concern when the bloodshed of innocent Palestinians , in Gaza , at the hands of Jews was on just few month ago , except rendering some lip service , the dangerous weapon against the innocents because USA is the biggest hurdle in stopping the oppressor . <p> Islamic Development Bank has failed to eradicate the illiteracy and poverty from Muslims nations across the globe . It needs to be reorganized to the extent that " Human Development Reports of each Muslim nation with regard to its population , its classification , the potential of economic resources the requirement of essentials to life , the extent of export/import , level of education , both religious and secular , the defense capabilities/need etc. " are to be worked out for drawing and formulating the plans towards growth and development of Muslim world . <p> The utilization of non-Muslims in Arab nations is to be re-arranged to the extent that preference should be given to Muslim professionals , because Muslims , nowadays possesses the required education and skill , both academic and technical . <p> The propagation of Islam in its true sense is to be arranged particularly in non-Muslims nations like USA , UK , Germany , and France , where some sections are trying to malign Islam . The , media both electronic and print , is to be organized as a powerful tool to defeat the anti-Islam plans of global media . <p> By taking these measures Muslim can establish themselves as a power to be reckoned with - economically , militarily , and scientificallyin the world . <h> Muslim World : From plight to power <p> Everywhere in the world we find Muslims subject to discrimination , excesses , harassment , and exploitation at the hands of world powers and their allies . Be it Palestine , Iraq , Afghanistan , or any other region , Muslims are at a receiving end ; and this despite the fact the Muslims have vast potential of men , material resources , the largest oil reserves , vast coastal lines , sea waters , important strategic geographical locations . <p> The Muslims have 57 independent nations and live in significant numbers in countries like USA , UK , Germany , France , China , and off course India has the largest Muslim population . Yet they stand exploited beyond words , why ? <p> One general reason is that Muslims have ignored Quran , Sunnah and the spirit of Islamic brotherhood . Muslim leaders are ignorant and hardly care for Islamic teachings . They only pursue selfish ends and are only after attaining political power . <p> During world War-II Adolph Hitler of Germany killed over six million Jews while millions escaped to different parts of the world . Palestinian Muslims offered them settlements in their own lands . But Jews ultimately occupied the land of innocent Palestinians and have been killing Palestinian 's ruthlessly at the behest of USA . <p> From 1800 AD to 1950 AD , 150 years , sixty thousand books stand published by anti-Muslim sections against Islam and Prophet Muhammad ( PBUH ) , which means that more than a book of blasphemous material was edited a day . It reveals the height of hatred towards Muslims of the world . <p> A survey too reveals that the growth of major religions in USA from 1934 to 1984 ( Fifty years period ) was conducted by a non-Muslim body and the results obtained indicated that Islam grew up 246 percent while Christianity 47 percent in those fifty years . <p> What sword was used by the Muslims in USA to covert Christians to Islam ? Media , both electronic and the print , is largely in the hands of non-Muslims . This gives them the advantage to malign Islam and Muslims . <p> It is a painful irony that others exploit the natural resources of Muslim world and also work in the Arab world in different capacities , eating at the revenue of Muslims . <p> Height of the things can be gauged by the fact that all nuclear powers , except its original inventor , have stolen the technology to build the nuclear weapons . <p> But whenever a Muslim nation tries the same , propaganada is unleashed against her , branding her as a " Rogue Nation " . <p> How Pakistan has been subject to a vilifying campaign in this regard and how Iran 's atomic programme is being scuttled are two glaring examples of this discrimination . Even earlier the atomic plant of Iraq was raised to ground by the Israelis . <p> Under these circumstances , the need has risen to integrate the broken and traumatized Ummah from Indonesia to Morocco and Kazakhstan to Sudan into a single unit , economically militarily , technologically , so that it becomes a power to be reckoned with . For that to happen following measures are required to be taken seriously : <p> Formation of Muslim Economic Community or and Common Muslim Market . The exploitation of natural resources and produce of the Muslim nations will get stopped and can lead to the establishment of economic power of Muslims . <p> Arabic language is required to be made the official language in all the Muslim nations across the globe . The nations like Indonesia , Pakistan , Bangladesh , Malaysia , Afghanistan , Iran Kazakhstan , Bosnia , and Chechnya , where Muslims rule but have the official languages other than Arabic have to take lead in making Arabic as the their official language . It will ensure the proper understanding among the Ummah . <p> Even in countries like USA , UK , Germany , India , and China , where Muslims constitute significant portion of population , the introduction of Arabic as the medium of instruction for Muslims deserves a thought . The educational institutions of international standard for academic and research purposes are required to be set up across the Muslim world . <p> The role of Arab League , Organization of Islamic Countries ( OIC ) and the Islamic Development Bank are not sufficient . These organistaions are to be reshaped and redesigned as per the aspiration of Muslims . <p> Currently , the Muslims constitute over 22 percent of the world population and have governments in the 57 countries , yet they not given a permanent seat in UNO . With the result , the concerns of the Muslims are not only ignored but get always ignored . Thus Muslims have no effective role in the world politics . Muslims must vacate UNO , if they are not given a permanent seat with veto power . Arab League and Organization of Islamic Countries are to be strengthened to the extent that the world has no option but to respond to these institutions meaningfully . <p> Israel is on a killing spree in Palestine since 1948 . What positive role UNO has played in restricting the ruthless and merciless Jews from massacring the innocent Palestinians ? Even countries like USA , UK , Germany , China , and India showed no concern when the bloodshed of innocent Palestinians , in Gaza , at the hands of Jews was on just few month ago , except rendering some lip service , the dangerous weapon against the innocents because USA is the biggest hurdle in stopping the oppressor . <p> Islamic Development Bank has failed to eradicate the illiteracy and poverty from Muslims nations across the globe . It needs to be reorganized to the extent that " Human Development Reports of each Muslim nation with regard to its population , its classification , the potential of economic resources the requirement of essentials to life , the extent of export/import , level of education , both religious and secular , the defense capabilities/need etc. " are to be worked out for drawing and formulating the plans towards growth and development of Muslim world . <p> The utilization of non-Muslims in Arab nations is to be re-arranged to the extent that preference should be given to Muslim professionals , because Muslims , nowadays possesses the required education and skill , both academic and technical . <p> The propagation of Islam in its true sense is to be arranged particularly in non-Muslims nations like USA , UK , Germany , and France , where some sections are trying to malign Islam . The , media both electronic and print , is to be organized as a powerful tool to defeat the anti-Islam plans of global media . <p> By taking these measures Muslim can establish themselves as a power to be reckoned with - economically , militarily , and scientificallyin the world . 
@@71510387 <h> Water used as weapon of war in Syria , Gaza and Yemen <h> Last Updated : Tuesday 01 September 2015 <p> The ongoing war in Syria has destroyed much of the country 's water infrastructure , leaving five million people suffering from a critical water shortage , said Unicef in a statement released on August 25 . Unicef accused parties to the conflict for deliberately targeting the country 's scarce water supply and using it as the weapon of war . <p> In the northern city of Aleppo , the fight has reportedly " crippled " the main pumping station . As a result , the city has recorded around 18 deliberate cuts in the public water supply this year . Taps in some communities were left dry for up to a month . In recent weeks , water prices have increased in Aleppo by up to 3,000 per cent . <p> The water crisis came at a time when families are finding it harder than ever to make ends meet and Syria faces an intense summer heat wave , recorded as worst of the decade . <p> Growing risk of water-borne diseases <p> The disruption to piped water supplies has increased the risk of water-borne diseases , especially among children . The long-duration water cuts have forced families in Damascus , Dera'a , Aleppo , and other areas to " rely on dirty water from unregulated and unprotected groundwater sources , exposing children in particular to the risk of contracting diarrhoea , typhoid , hepatitis , and other diseases " , read the statement . <p> According to Unicef , 2.3 million people in Aleppo , 2.5 million in Damacus and 250,000 people in Dera'a are suffering from water crisis . The water misery is particularly acute for millions of displaced families who have to share limited water supplies in over-crowded camps and shelters . <p> Ongoing fighting and violence has severely damaged the water pipelines and other water infrastructure , but the municipal workers and engineers are unable to carry out the necessary repairs . The frequent power cuts further aggravate the crisis since water can not be pumped out to the public . <p> The war in Syria has worsened the water crisis , and water availability is about half of what it was before the crisis began in 2011 , says the UN release . Water availability had decreased from 75 litres to 25 litres per person within just three years after the crisis , stated the UN report . <p> @ Do not attack the water facilities , treatment systems , pipelines and infrastructure <p> @ Protect water technicians , engineers and allow them to repair water supply installations <p> Conflict aggravated water crisis in Gaza , Yemen too <p> One year since the ceasefire that ended the summer 2014 war on Gaza 120,000 people across the Gaza Strip are still disconnected from the water network and 23 per cent of the territory 's population were not connected to the sanitation network said EWASH Advocacy Task Force and the Coastal Municipalities Water Utility in a joint statement . EWASH is a coalition of local and international organizations and UN agencies working on water and sanitation in the occupied Palestinian territory . <p> Yemen has already been facing a severe scarcity of water for decades . But the civil war that began in March 2015 has destroyed water pipes , storage tanks and the pumping facilities , leaving the Arab nation water dry . The number of Yemenis who lack access to drinking water has almost doubled since the civil war began , according to a report by reliefweb , the United Nations agency . <p> The global index of water stressed countries released this week . also reminds that regional violence and political conflicts has contributed to water stress in the least-water secure Middle East nations . It warns of extreme water challenges for the next 25 years and is a wake-up call for politicians and planners of the region . <p> We are a voice to you ; you have been a support to us . Together we build journalism that is independent , credible and fearless . You can further help us by making a donation . This will mean a lot for our ability to bring you news , perspectives and analysis from the ground so that we can make change together . <p> Comments are moderated and will be published only after the site moderator 's approval . Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name . Selected comments may also be used in the ' Letters ' section of the Down To Earth print edition . <p> Down To Earth is a product of our commitment to make changes in the way we manage our environment , protect health and secure livelihoods and economic security for all . We believe strongly that we can and must do things differently . Our aim is to bring you news , perspectives and knowledge to prepare you to change the world . We believe information is a powerful driver for the new tomorrow . 
@@71514291 <h> Glimpses of Christmas from across the world <p> These photos tell the story of how Christmas looks like in different parts of the world . <p> By AP <p> Published 25.12.19 , 2:28 PM <p> Updated 25.12.19 , 2:35 PM <p> a min read <p> &amp;nbsp <p> Photo Credit : AP <p> Pope Francis prays as he celebrates Christmas Eve Mass in St. Peter 's Basilica at the Vatican , Tuesday , Dec. 24 , 2019 . <p> Photo Credit : AP <p> Christian Armenian pray inside the Grotto of the Church of the Nativity , traditionally believed by Christians to be the birthplace of Jesus Christ , in the West Bank city of Bethlehem on Christmas Eve , Tuesday , Dec. 24 , 2019 . <p> Elephants dressed in Santa Claus costumes sit with students at the Jirasartwitthaya school during Christmas celebrations in Ayutthaya province , north of Bangkok , Thailand . <p> Photo Credit : AP <p> Children sing carols during a Christmas charity event as they gather to deliver gifts for the poor in Seoul , South Korea , Tuesday , Dec. 24 , 2019 . <p> Photo Credit : AP <p> A woman poses for photos near a giant Christmas tree and Christmas themed display during Christmas Eve in Beijing on Tuesday , Dec. 24 , 2019 . <p> Photo Credit : AP <p> Catholic Christians light candles as they participate at a Christmas Eve Mass in St. Antoine Church , the largest church of the Roman Catholic Church , in Istanbul , Tuesday , Dec. 24 , 2019 . <p> Photo Credit : AP <p> A Palestinian Christian man plays with his baby as they wait for the Christmas Mass outside the Holy Family Catholic Church in Gaza City , Tuesday , Dec. 24 , 2019 . <p> Photo Credit : AP <p> A volunteer , centre , serves drinks at a public Christmas dinner as a boy asks Santa Claus for a selfie , in Martyrs Square where anti-government activists are encamped , in Beirut , Lebanon . As Lebanon 's protest movement enters its third month , the economic pinch is hurting everyone . But Lebanese are resorting to what they 've done in previous wars and crises : They rely on each other , not the state . <p> Photo Credit : AP <p> A clown is seen on the streets of Harare in this Saturday , Dec. 21 , 2019 , photo . Zimbabwe faces Christmas amid a harsh economic crisis that has forced many people to queue for cash and for fuel , making it difficult to plan for the festive period . <p> Believers the Christmas mass , in Saint-Germain l'Auxerrois church , in Paris , Tuesday , Dec. 24 , 2019 . Notre Dame Cathedral is unable to host Christmas services for the first time since the French Revolution , because the Paris landmark was too deeply damaged by this year 's fire . <p> Photo Credit : AP <p> London Eye and other buildings on the south bank of the River Thames , illuminated in central London , England <p> Photo Credit : AP <p> Priests and clergy walk in a procession to attend the Christmas celebration midnight Mass at the Cathedral-Basilical in Vilnius , Lithuania , Tuesday , Dec. 24 , 2019 . Over 80 percent of Lithuanians are Christians who celebrate the festival of Christma . <p> Photo Credit : AP <p> People walk in Red Square decorated for Christmas and New Year celebrations , with the St. Basil 's Cathedral in the background in Moscow , Russia . <p> Photo Credit : AP <p> In this picture taken with a long time exposure people walk along the Christmas Fair in front of the Mariendom ( Cathedral of Mary ) and St. Severi 's Church in Erfurt , central Germany . The Erfurt Christmas Market is one of the most beautiful Christmas Markets in the whole of Germany . The square is beautifully decorated with a huge , candle-lit Christmas tree and a large , hand-carved wooden creche . <p> Photo Credit : AP <p> Iranian Christians celebrate Christmas Eve mass at the Saint Joseph Chaldean-Assyrian Catholic church , in Tehran , Iran , Tuesday , Dec. 24 , 2019 . Christianity is a recognized religion by the country 's constitution ; Christians have representatives at the parliament , can go to their own schools and vote in the elections . 
