@@31522809 <h> Three Tsunami disasters Work of Divine ? <h> Commemorating 30,000 lives lost in two hours <p> " Day after Tomorrow " , the blockbuster Hollywood film was enacted in a real life drama on 26/12 , fifteen years ago when giant tidal waves lashed 3/4th of the island 's coast plunging into a crisis of unprecedented nature reminding one of the legendary Viharamaha Devi , daughter of King Kelanitissa who volunteered to sacrifice her life as predicted by soothsayers , for the sake of her countrymen two millennia ago . As the story goes ... , Kelanitissa punished a monk by boiling him alive . The gods , enraged over this brutal act , made the sea rush inland flooding the land . <h> Galle Tsunami - 1907 <p> In between the two well recorded Tsunamis , there had been a minor tremor that caused a mini-tsunami 112 years ago . Flicking through newspapers of a century ago at Archives , the writer came across a news item in Ceylon Observer of January 4 , 1907 : - " Strange Tidal Effect at Galle " -'The Sea Recedes 50 Feet ' --Fish and lobsters stranded -- Galle , Jan. 4 , 4.38 pm ..... ' The sea in harbour first receded at 1.30 in the afternoon some 35 to 50 feet . The whole coast round the harbour is dry for the same distance . Fish and lobsters were caught by coolies and others . The sea receded again several times at intervals of half an hour or so .... the incoming swell has a strong current . There is very high water at the jetty . ... The lighters landing rice from " Ludhiana " are in danger . Some boats narrowly escaped being wrecked on the rocks . .... ' see attachment Banks , private sector companies , and voluntary organizations came forward to help the distraught people . India , Japan , USA , China , France , Russia and Norway provided assistance , while a special Japanese team headed by the Secretary for Foreign Affairs arrived in Colombo within 48 hours . A Matara-bound train , was hit between Seenigama and Hikkaduwa by the second tidal wave killing hundreds including foreigners . Destroying properties worth billions of dollars and killing hundreds of thousands of lives in the region ; the tremor of huge magnitude had the earth vibrating and disturbing its rotation according to Enzo Boschi , renowned scientist attached to Italy 's National Geophysics Institute . People 's behaviour during natural disasters should be understood with the help of key elements like culture and religion ; and how they interact with the environment on a daily basis . Many people since the beginning of recorded history thought that external spiritual force or a divine being is responsible for creating disasters . The disastrous events were believed to be weapons in God 's armoury , used in punishment . In August 2005 , some fundamentalists believed Hurricane Katrina was the work of God to punish the New Orleans , a city famous for vociferous festivals , while others believed it was to punish the US for their role in removing Jewish settlers in Gaza Strip . Kashmir earthquake in 2005 and Pakistan 's floods , worst recorded in the history were interpreted as punishment from God , by the Islamic leaders . The Archbishop of Canterbury , Dr. Rowan Williams , speaking on the tragedy , the most inconceivable disaster of such magnitude concluded , " How can you believe in a God who permits suffering in this scale ? " <h> ' Boxing Day ' Catastrophe <p> The day after Christmas ; December 26 is usually thought a fixed day of the year called Boxing Day . The Tsunami that occurred on a Boxing Day exactly 15 years ago took the lives of over 230,000 persons of all nationalities and religions , proving that nature does not discriminate , and left millions orphaned , widowed or distressed of their loved ones . It was with a sense of shock and dismay that we learned by 9.30 am on Sunday December 26 , 2004 , that a huge earthquake had occurred a couple of hours before close to the island of Sumatra . We had news from time to time of devastating earthquakes in different places of the globe . Earthquakes are measured on what is known as the Richter Scale ( named after Dr. Charles F. Richter ) . Usually , the earthquakes we had heard up to this point were of the order of 4.5 to a maximum of 7.5 on the scale . However , the Boxing day Sumatra earthquake measured 9.4 on the Richter scale . By any standards , this was certainly an enormous quake . The quake had in fact occurred on the subterranean sea bed adjacent to Sumatra . The vertical thrust of the sea bed , consequential from the quake , had pushed the waters almost 70 feet up . Thus creating a huge wave travelling at over 800 km/hour destroying the entire coastal belts of Sumatra , of Nicobar Islands and of Sri Lanka , Tamil Nadu and the Maldives , which forced in a westerly course because of land impediments on the eastward end . The WAVE Tsunami , on coastal area to the west disturbed a large stretch of coastline in the Indian Continent , badly affecting the Province of Aceh , Indonesia where it was estimated 120,000 perished . It affected little over ten countries before coming to a still on the East African coastline upsetting human life in Somalia . Tsunami waves took a little over two hours to reach the island of Sri Lanka , travelling from its epicenter in Sumatra along the ocean . We on that Sunday morning carried on our usual morning habitual chores without any idea of the ' terror ' that was to come . Originally generated by the movement of the sea-bed near Sumatra , these waves clearly lay within the earthquake belts . <h> Tectonic Plate : Sri Lanka as Part of India ? <p> The study of dynamics of the earth 's crust know as " Plate Tectonics " , explains the movement of the earth 's crust causing earthquakes . A study says , millions of years ago , African continent and South America constituted a single adjacent thin layer of sedimentary rock , which due to tectonic properties had separated over the years . They believe that Sri Lanka and the numerous islets over us seem to indicate that we were once part of India . Scientifically referred to as plates , the earth 's crust consist of 3 to 5 of them . The Indo-plate under Indian continent and its neighboring land was connected to the Australian plate , forming a huge and bordering land heap . The friction between these two massive plates or even a crash could lead to the occurrence of quakes . The harm done to our coastal districts is of such an extent that we could not find space to justify it in a newspaper column . One good feature that materialised from the December 26 disaster in Sri Lanka was the coming together of people from all ethnic and religious groups sans differences , conflicts or disagreements which had been a curse since 1950s in our little island . Top politicians and people rose up to the occasion to assist the affected by this tragedy . Cooked food , dry rations , new cloths , medicine and water collected from donors and distributed by volunteers . I felt proud to be a Sri Lankan when Management representatives from a Indian conglomerate who visited our organization to take part in seminar expressed their surprise , at the way our people acted , One of them said , " This is unbelievable , it would never have occurred in my country . " <h> Second Wave <p> The first Tsunami wave after devastating the coastal land , receded back into the ocean creating a stretch of open sand over a hundred metres in to the shallow sea , clearing the sea shore making many people venturing to the ' re-claimed ' shore collecting fish that struggled without water . Within ten or fifteen minutes the second wave which was much bigger encroached , causing extensive destruction beyond our comprehension . Is it correct to call upon God to account for natural catastrophe as per conventional religious point of view ? ' Mind is the forerunner of all conditions ; and all things are mind-made . The evil intentions of our thoughts , speech and actions , will follow us like the carriage that follows the bull ' -- Buddha . ' As you sow you shall reap and as you do unto others it will be done unto you ' -- Jesus Christ . All main religions , whether it be Buddhism , Hinduism , Christianity or Islam , have embodied compassion and love and as the essential motivating factor in all their teachings . We can not conceal our violations of moral and spiritual laws . The penalties of our actions and thoughts build up over time ; will come behind us demanding returns . I conclude by affirming again that unless we address our problems at the deeper level of love and of forgiveness and charity , we will continue to suffer more disasters , not only at a natural level but at political , economic and societal levels as well . <h> Welcome--Mr . Tsunami <p> The Japanese term ' Tsunami ' meaning ' harbour wave ' was alien to Sri Lankans . A joke doing the rounds in social circuit spoke of how the Hawaiian Tsunami Monitoring centre made contact with one of our ministers in the early hours of 26/12 . " There was a tsunami coming from Indonesia in two hrs " , the message said . The minister acting promptly , ordered a delegation to the Airport with a paging board , " Welcome Mr. Tsunami of Indonesia . " <h> Comments - 0 <h> Add comment <p> Comments will be edited ( grammar , spelling and slang ) and authorized at the discretion of Daily Mirror online . The website also has the right not to publish selected comments . 
@@31540333 <h> 2018 year of indifference to human suffering , but hope for 2019 <h> Summit of the year : Trump meeting Kim Jong-un in Singapore <p> ith the controversial actions of the United States President Donald Trump giving rise to a tumultuous world order , the year that comes to an end in three more days can easily be labelled as a year of indifference to human suffering . Tens of thousands of children die of starvations and disease in Yemen in scenes reminiscent of Somalia in the 1990s , but Trump has made little effort to stop the Saudi-Arabia-led war on the poorest Arab nation . Even after , the Senate , as a response to Saudi Arabia 's extrajudicial killing of dissident journalist Jamal Khashoggi , passed last month a resolution urging the US to stop its support for the Saudi-led war on Yemen , Trump puts business with Saudi Arabia before the urgent need to end the Yemeni people 's suffering which the World Food Programme has described as the world 's worst humanitarian crisis . <p> According to the international charity group , Save the Children , more than 85,000 children under five have died of extreme hunger in Yemen since the war began in 2015 , while other aid agencies estimate that of two million Yemeni children , who are mere skins on bones , nearly one hundred die daily in Yemen . The indifference of the world community -- or its complicity -- even after seeing the shocking images of dying children is as appalling as it is puzzling . <p> Despite being beset by regular resignations of senior officials , the latest being Defence Secretary James Mattis , multiple scandals , investigations over collusion with Russia and a government shutdown , Trump is adamant and does what he wants in the way he wants . In his bid to appease Saudi Arabia , Trump also disregards calls to take punitive measures against the Gulf nation for the gruesome killing of Khashoggi in Saudi Arabia 's consulate office in Istanbul on October 2 . Apart from Turkey , the rest of the world has not taken a moral stand on this issue and continues its relations with Saudi Arabia regardless , as though human rights are only a matter to be taken up when powerless states commit excesses . <p> The year also underlined a depressing reality that the world failed miserably to deal with the life-and-death issue of climate change . With 2018 being regarded as the fourth warmest year on record since 1880 , the blow the Trump administration 's self-centred policy dealt to the climate change agreement by withdrawing from it last year had a cumulative effect . With the US , one of the biggest polluters of the planet , not in the picture , the climate conference in the Polish coal town of Katowice this month became just another talk shop . Trump 's make-America-great-again policy does not allow other nations to benefit at the expense of US sacrifices . He has dismissed climate change warnings as a hoax perpetrated by China . <p> The year also saw the United States launching a protracted trade war with China . The tit-for-tat trade sanctions had an adverse impact on the growth of the global economy , affecting largely developing nations . If 2017 was a year of hope for migrants fleeing war and poverty , 2018 is a year of nightmare for migrants , especially those from Latin America . This week , a second migrant child died in US custody as the Trump administration , which is hell bent on building a border wall -- instead of bridges to bring people together -- persists with its tough stand on migrants coming from Latin American nations . Most of these nations , especially El Salvador , Guatemala and Nicaragua , have been pushed into poverty as a result of Washington 's interventionist foreign policy . <p> Yet another Trump action that paid little or no attention to human suffering is the sanctions imposed on Iran . The Trump administration , in yet another controversial move , withdrew from the seven-nation Iran nuclear deal and slapped fresh sanctions on Iran , denying the oil-producing nation the opportunity to raise the living standards of its people suffering under decades of tough international sanctions . The move also shot up world oil prices deepening the economic crises many developing nations face . <p> Talking of human suffering and global indifference , Palestine needs a special mention . This year also is yet another annus horribilis for the Palestinian people . The Trump administration 's recognition of the whole of Jerusalem as the undivided capital of Israel and the shifting of the US embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem dashed the Palestinians ' hope for an independent state with East Jerusalem as their capital . The defiant Palestinians continue their peaceful struggle , with Palestinian refugees in Gaza launching a Great March to Return to draw the world 's attention to their plight , the injustice caused to them and the humiliation they undergo in the hands of Israeli occupation forces . Hundreds of Palestinians have been killed since the launch of the Great March in March this year . Yet the international community 's contribution towards ending the Palestinian people 's suffering is distressingly nominal . <p> The international community 's indifference to the suffering of the Syrian people continues this year , too . There was little progress on the Syrian front in terms of peace moves . With the Syrian troops now in control of much of the country , and the ISIS terrorists on the run , the war has reached a stalemate . But , it could escalate anytime , as Trump is calling back the US troops from Syria and giving regional power Turkey a freehand to deal with the Syrian Kurdish rebel group YPG which Ankara regards as an extension of the Turkish separatist group PKK . <h> A woman holds her skin-on-bones son at a malnutrition treatment center in Sanaa , Yemen . Pic Reuters <p> The Trump administration in a rash decision is also planning to slash the US military strength in Afghanistan by half . Though a US withdrawal is welcome from Syria and Afghanistan , the move should have been accompanied by measures aimed at permanent peace . In terms of world peace , the biggest event this year was the summit between Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong-un in Singapore in June . The meeting , however , was seen more as a cameo performance by the two maverick leaders than any genuine attempt to strike peace . As the year began , the world was gripped by fears of a nuclear war between the US and North Korea over Pyongyang 's missile tests . After the June talks , North Korea dismantled its nuclear weapon test sites , but is now complaining that the US has not kept to its part of the deal . <p> The year also saw a slowdown in China 's growth , but its push to expand the Belt-and-Road Initiative is making progress , nevertheless , amid criticism that the BRI was China 's neocolonial project driven by debt diplomacy . Russia , meanwhile , continues to assert itself in 2018 , getting involved in a war of words with Britain following chemical poisoning attacks on Russian dissidents living in Britain . <p> The year 's another big story is Britain 's struggle to get a Brexit deal approved in parliament to complete its divorce with the European Union in March next year . In South Asia , the setback the Narendra Modi government suffered in recent elections , the defeat of the Maldivian strongman Abdulla Yameen in the presidential election , cricket legend Imran Khan 's rise to prime ministerial seat and , of course , Sri Lanka 's constitutional coup , dominated world headlines . Another significant development of the year was Malaysia 's general election which saw Mahathir Mohamed 's return to power on a platform of anti-corruption in May . <p> On a positive note , though 2018 is a year of indifference , 2019 can be a year of hope , or at least let us hope it will be so , as we see a glimmer of peace hope in the distant horizon with regard to Yemen and Syria . Also 2019 could be an eventful year for the US , with the release of the report on the Robert Mueller investigation into the Trump camp 's alleged liaison with Russia likely any time . Will President Trump survive the probe 's outcome ? This question may dominate the political discourse next year . <h> Comments - 0 <h> Add comment <p> Comments will be edited ( grammar , spelling and slang ) and authorized at the discretion of Daily Mirror online . The website also has the right not to publish selected comments . 
