<p> The crisis in Syria is the result of President Bashar al-Assad 's refusal to engage in political dialogue with the opposition , and not external interventions , the Turkish foreign minister , Hakan Fidan , said after meeting his Iranian counterpart , Abbas Araghchi , for emergency talks in Ankara . <p> Araghchi , by contrast , blamed intervention by Israel for the crisis . But the two sides appeared to agree on the need to convene an urgent summit between Turkey , Iran and Russia , the three main external powers inside Syria . <p> These three powers have been meeting to discuss Syria 's political future as part of the Astana process since January 2017 . A total of 22 meetings have been held in that format , but Turkey believes Syrian intransigence has led to a lack of progress . <p> Araghchi said he wanted the Astana process to be revived as quickly as possible , reflecting the need on all sides to reassess their diplomatic positions due to the Syrian Islamist militia the Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) and Syrian National Army ( SNA ) -- the coalition of Turkey-linked rebels formerly called the Free Syrian Army -- seizing swathes of territory from the control of Assad , including Syria 's second city of Aleppo . Turkey supports the SNA , and is refusing to call for any withdrawal from Aleppo . <p> Iran and Russia , Assad 's key backers , are urging Turkey to persuade the forces it supports to end the offensive before it leads to the breakup of Syria , the fall of Assad , or the country falling into the hands of extremist Islamists . <p> Rebel fighters sit together in the town of Tel Rifaat , Syria , on 2 December . Photograph : Mahmoud Hassano/Reuters <p> It is not clear what Turkey 's ultimate objectives in Syria will be , but it is striking how many other regional actors , including Saudi Arabia , Jordan and the United Arab Emirates , do not want Assad to fall even if they would like Iranian influence to be reduced . Most Gulf states have normalised relations with Syria but received little in return . <p> Fidan said at the joint press conference : " It would be wrong to explain recent developments in Syria with foreign intervention . The latest developments show the need for Damascus to reconcile with its people and the legitimate opposition . " <p> Calling on the Assad government to come to the negotiating table , he added : " We do n't want to see cities falling into ruin ; we do n't want to see people displaced . Stopping refugee flow and having people returning to their homes is essential . " But he also warned against excessive external interventions , and said Turkey could act as a mediator between the armed opposition groups and Assad . <p> Araghchi said " terrorist groups in Syria had connections to the United States and Israel " , and this " caused mistrust " in Syria . He was referring to the US-backed Syrian Democratic Forces , a mainly Kurdish group operating in eastern Syria that Ankara insists is linked with the PKK , a Kurdish group operating inside Turkey . <p> Syrian White Helmet rescuers search for survivors at the site of a reported airstrike on a neighbourhood in Syria 's rebel-held northern city of Idlib on 2 December . Photograph : Omar Haj Kadour/AFP/Getty Images <p> Fidan said Turkey and Iran had agreed to coordinate their actions against the SDF , but it was unclear if this was more than rhetoric . Araghchi -- who had been in Damascus the day before -- said his talks with Fidan " were very direct , transparent , constructive and friendly " . <p> Discussing Syria 's political future , Araghchi did not directly criticise Assad 's intransigence , instead saying : " Necessary measures must also be taken for good governance in Syria . " <p> Iran is concerned that its position inside Syria , including its supply routes into Lebanon and into Syria , will be weakened by the unexpected surge of the largely Turkish-backed forces that have seized Aleppo and moved towards Hama , farther south . <p> Iran 's position has already been weakened inside Gaza and Lebanon , and Tehran can not afford to see its influence reduced further by Assad being toppled . <p> The Iranian president , Masoud Pezeshkian , and the Russian president , Vladimir Putin , expressed their unconditional support for Assad and " restoring constitutional order " after speaking by phone on Monday . Iran and Russia have been working together to prop up Assad since the surprise Russian military intervention to protect Assad in 2015 . <p> It is widely assumed Turkey broadly approved of the HTS-led offensive in advance , but Turkey denies this , and at minimum insists it did not expect to see Syrian army defences collapse as fully they have . In the hurriedly arranged talks in Ankara , Fidan said he did not want the crisis to escalate or the territorial integrity of Syria challenged . <p> But Turkey has a motive to back the offensive , since it feels for months Assad has rebuffed its efforts to secure a political settlement inside Syria . Such a deal would open the way for hundreds of thousands of Syrian refugees inside Turkey to return to their homeland . More than 2 million people fled to Turkey during the civil war in 2011 . <p> A car burns after an airstrike next to a hospital in Idlib , Syria , on 2 December . Photograph : Ghaith Alsayed/AP <p> But Turkey feels Assad has spurned talks by setting preconditions such as demanding Turkish troops leave Syria or Ankara end its support for groups such as the Syrian National Army . Instead , Assad had continued to target Idlib , the stronghold of the opposition inside Syria , pushing thousands of people toward the border with Turkey . This in turn had only deepened Ankara 's fears regarding the acute refugee crisis in Turkey , which has cost the president , Recep Tayyip Erdogan , and his party significant political support . <p> The danger for the Syrian opposition groups is that they find themselves marginalised by the three great powers . Critics say the Astana process has become a mechanism for normalising the military presence of its three sponsors , while minimising interstate friction , and leaving the opposition out in the cold . <p> The last meeting of the Astana process in Kazakhstan in November , for instance , made no progress over the basic issues of the composition of a committee to draw up a new Syrian constitution -- or even the venue where the committee would meet .
