<p> The day also serves as the occasion for the new president 's inaugural speech - Alex Wong/Getty <p> This is followed at 3pm by a military parade called the pass in review , when the new commander-in-chief inspects their troops for the first time . <p> During the parade , the president and vice-president lead a procession of regiments , marching bands and floats down Pennsylvania Avenue from the Capitol to the White House . <p> The traditional parade , which is watched by millions of Americans , dates back to the first inauguration , when local militias joined George Washington 's procession as he made his way from Mount Vernon , Virginia , to New York City to be sworn into office in 1789 . <p> Owing to a calendar quirk , the 2025 inauguration also falls on the same day as Martin Luther King Jr Day . <p> It is just the second time that the state holiday honouring the civil rights leader has fallen on the same day as the inauguration . <h> How many people will attend the inauguration ? <p> Turnout proved to be a bone of contention last time Mr Trump won the presidency . Aides claimed at the time that he had drawn the " largest audience ever " despite aerial photographs appearing to show significantly fewer numbers lining the national mall than had turned out for Barack Obama 's inauguration in 2009 . <p> Mr Trump caused controversy in 2017 when he suggested his crowd , left , was the biggest ever , despite picture comparisons suggesting the one for Barack Obama , right , was far bigger - Reuters <p> The National Parks Service , which manages the flow of people into Washington 's central thoroughfare , does not take attendance numbers . <p> However , reports suggest tens of thousands of people are expected to file into the capital over the weekend preceding the event , both for the inauguration itself and to take part in protests opposing Mr Trump 's election victory . <h> How do you get tickets to the presidential inauguration ? <p> Tickets to watch the inauguration from the grounds of the US Capitol are free , but are in high demand and must be applied for through local congressional district websites . <p> Those who are unsuccessful can still view the ceremony on large video screens on the National Mall , alongside thousands of other spectators . <p> The inauguration will also be streamed for those wanting to watch from home . <p> After Ukraine 's Western allies cleared the embattled country to use long-range tactical missiles against military targets in Russia , Vladimir Putin tested a new hypersonic missile and threatened to deploy it against Kyiv . However , an image circulating online of a supposed cover of The Economist showing the Russian president and US President-elect Donald Trump facing off with the title " Apocalypse " is fake . <p> President-elect Donald Trump is demanding the immediate release of Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza , saying that if they are not freed before he is sworn into office for a second term there will be " HELL TO PAY . " " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " Trump wrote in a post on his Truth Social site . It was not immediately clear whether Trump was threatening to directly involve the U.S. military in Israel 's ongoing campaign against Hamas in Gaza . <p> " I have this impression that ( the Russians ) have unlimited people , " said Oleksandr , a Ukrainian unit commander . " The next Russians , it seems , do not know what happened to the previous Russians . They go there , into the unknown . No one tells them anything about it , and no one comes back . "
