<p> On Friday , Mr Trudeau flew to Mar-a-Lago at short notice to discuss the president-elect 's plans to slap a 25 per cent tariff on all Canadian and Mexican imports if both countries failed to halt the flow of drugs and migrants across the US ' borders . <p> Mr Trump threatened to impose tariffs if both countries failed to halt the flow of drugs and migrants across their borders with the United States . <p> Justin Trudeau and Donald Trump at Mar-A-Lago . Guests said their meeting was ' very friendly and very positive ' , despite the president-elect 's alleged barbed comments <p> During a three-hour dinner in which crab and oysters were served , Mr Trump told the Canadian premier that his country had failed the US by allowing illegal migrants from more than 70 countries to cross their shared border , two people at the table told Fox News . <h> ' Ripping off the US ' <p> Mr Trump is said to have responded : " So your country ca n't survive unless it 's ripping off the US to the tune of $100 billion ? " <p> His comments referred to the US trade deficit with Canada . <p> Mr Trump then suggested that Canada could instead become the 51st US state , which caused the prime minister and others to laugh nervously , Fox News reported . <p> The president-elect is said to have run with the joke , telling Mr Trudeau that prime minister was a better title , but that he could still be governor of the 51st state . <p> The exchange was said to have prompted someone else at the table to weigh in , advising Mr Trump that Canada would be a very liberal state , which triggered more laughter . <p> Mr Trump reportedly went on to suggest that if Mr Trudeau could not meet his demands , perhaps Canada could be divided into two states : a liberal and a conservative one . <p> Despite the verbal jousting , the Canadian guests reportedly called the dinner " very friendly and very positive " . <p> Dominic LeBlanc , the Canadian public safety minister who joined Mr Trudeau at the dinner , said : " The prime minister of course spoke about the importance of protecting the Canadian economy and Canadian workers from tariffs , but we also discussed with our American friends the negative impact that those tariffs could have on their economy , on affordability in the United States as well . <p> " The idea that we came back empty handed is completely false , " Mr LeBlanc continued . " We had a very productive discussion with Mr Trump and his future Cabinet secretaries . ... The commitment from Mr Trump to continue to work with us was far from empty handed . " <p> Mr Trump called the talks " productive " but signalled no retreat from his tariffs pledge . <p> The Trump transition team was approached for comment . <h> Latest stories <p> Canada is scrambling to respond to Donald Trump 's threat of hefty import tariffs , but a purported CNN segment claimed to show Justin Trudeau in tears over the US president-elect 's proposals is fake . The cable news network aired no such footage , and the video of the Canadian prime minister comes from his emotional reaction to a musician 's death in 2017 . <p> Chad Chronister , Donald Trump 's pick to run the Drug Enforcement Administration , said Tuesday he was withdrawing his name from consideration , becoming the second person selected by the president-elect to bow out quickly after being nominated for a position requiring Senate confirmation . Sheriff Chronister , the top law enforcement officer in Hillsborough County , Florida , said in a post on X that he was backing away from the opportunity , which he called " the honor of a lifetime . " " Over the past several days , as the gravity of this very important responsibility set in , I 've concluded that I must respectfully withdraw from consideration , " Chronister wrote . <p> Bill Maher " may quit , " his HBO show Real Time , he told Jane Fonda on the latest episode of his Club Random podcast , because he 's " sh--ting his pants " over having to talk about " very hostile " Donald Trump . " I did all the Trump stuff before anybody , " Maher said , " I called him a con man before anybody I did . He 's a mafia boss . I was the one who said he was n't going to concede the election . I 've done it . I 've seen this f---ing thing play out . " Fonda inquired why Maher would feel the need to stop h <p> An Ohio woman has been jailed for a year for killing and eating a cat . Allexis T. Ferrell 's arrest received worldwide attention after it was falsely used as proof of claims by Donald Trump and running mate JD Vance that Haitian immigrants in Springfield , Ohio were eating their pets . Ferrell , 27 , from Canton , Ohio , pleaded guilty on Monday to cruelty to animals and was given the maximum prison sentence by Stark County Common Pleas Ferrell 's Frank G. Forchione , according to the Canton Repository . <p> China announced Tuesday it is banning exports to the United States of gallium , germanium , antimony and other key high-tech materials with potential military applications , as a general principle , lashing back at U.S. limits on semiconductor-related exports . The Chinese Commerce Ministry announced the move after the Washington expanded its list of Chinese companies subject to export controls on computer chip-making equipment , software and high-bandwidth memory chips . <p> President-elect Donald Trump joked at one point during his dinner with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on Friday night that if Canada ca n't handle the economic effects of a punishing 25 per cent tariff on its goods , it should become the 51st state of the U.S.Public Safety Minister Dominic LeBlanc , who was with Trudeau at the intimate dinner at Mar-a-Lago , said Trump 's quip was quite clearly a joke -- and not some sort of signal of a serious plan to annex Canada . " In a three-hour social evening at th <p> After Ukraine 's Western allies cleared the embattled country to use long-range tactical missiles against military targets in Russia , Vladimir Putin tested a new hypersonic missile and threatened to deploy it against Kyiv . However , an image circulating online of a supposed cover of The Economist showing the Russian president and US President-elect Donald Trump facing off with the title " Apocalypse " is fake . <p> Vanessa Feltz has become the latest star to speak out against Gregg Wallace , claiming he had described a sex act he had performed on his wife while in a BBC lift with her friend.The 60-year-old faces allegations from 13 people across a range of shows over a 17-year period , as reported by BBC News on Thursday , with many others since sharing their experiences . Speaking on her YouTube channel , Feltz recalled : " My friend did not know Greg Wallace . Had never met him before , and in the lift was a young girl who worked on another show . " So the three of them were going up in the lift together and completely unprompted Greg Wallace described a sex act that he had performed on his then-wife that morning . " So my friend had not met Greg Wallace before , had n't asked him about his sex life . Was simply taking him to participate in a BBC programme , and the young lady in the lift was just an innocent passenger . " So this is something that a very close friend and associate of mine told me about at the time . What did anyone do about it ? Of course , absolutely nothing . " <p> President-elect Donald Trump is demanding the immediate release of Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza , saying that if they are not freed before he is sworn into office for a second term there will be " HELL TO PAY . " " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " Trump wrote in a post on his Truth Social site . It was not immediately clear whether Trump was threatening to directly involve the U.S. military in Israel 's ongoing campaign against Hamas in Gaza .
