<p> The rapid advance of Syrian rebels into Aleppo has proved a grievous blow to Bashar al-Assad 's vile regime . Radical Islamist and Kurdish forces have mounted separate assaults that have pushed Syrian army forces back , with speculation that the assault could press on into major cities . <p> It is clear that the situation is extremely fragile , and that Syria could easily extend into extreme chaos . Assad is a monster , but the Islamist rebels are no friends of the West . <p> While a great deal of focus is on these dynamics and the involvement of Russian forces backing the Assad government -- with reports of airstrikes around Aleppo -- perhaps just as significant is the damage dealt to Iran 's ambitions in the Middle East . It seems increasingly likely that the barbaric October 7 assault , far from signalling the beginning of a new era of Iranian strength , was instead the high-water mark for Iranian influence in the region . <p> Over the past year Tehran has had to watch its Hamas allies in Gaza be dealt defeat after defeat , and its Hezbollah proxies in Lebanon be decimated . Iran 's own assaults upon Israel produced minimal effects , and invited in return airstrikes which Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has indicated struck Tehran 's nuclear programme . <p> It is clear that the regime 's great gambit has failed . The current disorder in Syria appears to be directly downstream of decisions taken after October 7 , with Iran-backed militias launching attacks on US-bases in turn resulting in US airstrikes on Iranian positions in Syria , and the barrage of Hezbollah rockets into Israel triggering an eventual Israeli ground-assault into Lebanon . <p> This weakening of Assad 's allies and their positions within his countries appears to have opened the door to the current offensive , and the prospect of what could be a significant loss of power for Damascus . <p> It is clear that Tehran badly miscalculated its decision to escalate its conflict with Israel and the West . <p> While the regime has managed to win some victories in the propaganda war -- successfully persuading many young , Left-wing people in the West that it is Israel that is the aggressor in this conflict in a sickening perversion of the truth -- it has suffered humiliation on the battlefield , and strategic goals it has worked towards for years have been torn to shreds in a matter of months . The result appears to be the implosion of Iran 's dream of regional domination . <p> The Syrian regime has been greatly weakened after Iran exerted enormous effort to stabilise it ; Tehran 's proxies in Lebanon have been devastated ; Hamas has been all-but neutralised as an effective force . There is a golden opportunity for the West to finish the job of shattering Iran 's malign regional influence for an extended period .
