<p> Last year , six young Jewish Israelis and Palestinians embarked on their life 's dream as a boy band bound for Los Angeles to record their debut album . But the day after they arrived , full of hope , in the entertainment capital of the world , their dream looked like it could be shattered . It was October 7 . <p> A new documentary series on Paramount+ follows the first Israeli Palestinian boy band from their beginnings on a bootcamp in Neve Shalom -- part of the search and audition launched by industry hitmakers James Diener and Ken Levitan ( who signed and developed Maroon 5 and Kings Of Leon ) to find the most talented singers and musicians in Israel . <p> As1one were brought together to show the possibilities of co-existence , but that message was painfully put to the test . <p> Lin was the first to see the horror unfolding on his mobile phone feed and he soon discovered that a friend had been killed at Nova festival ; he might have been there with her had he not won a place in the band . <p> " We were so excited to be in Los Angeles together , " says Farah , eyes lit up then quickly downcast . " But then in the morning , that all changed . " <p> They feared the band could n't continue . <p> " I said , it 's either going to bring us together or break us apart , " Farah says . " It brought us together more , because of what we believe in , as a band , because music unites people . But the shock was really hard to deal with . <p> He adds , " I was raised differently to any of the guys , and then losing friends from the war , from the attack , and then being very scared for my family , the Palestinians in Israel , and the Palestinians in Gaza and the West Bank , was a lot of emotions all of a sudden . " <p> He points out that they originate from different backgrounds and opinions and that what first inspired each of them is their traditions and identities . October 7 sparked their first political discussion as a group and they talked openly , their arguments ending in brotherly hugs . <p> " After all the arguments , we said , ' What do we believe in together ? We believe that we want peace and music . ' We saw the similarities in each of us , the humanity . It became more and more important for us to be here in Los Angeles , to work together and to work out the differences , even if we disagree . We want ' let 's all unite through music ' to be the message . " <p> Dogosh , who is quieter than his fellow band members , adds , " We 're not different , but we 're thinking differently . " <p> ' We represent what it 's like to be Israelis and Palestinians in a coexisting environment ' ( Photo : Ross Halfin ) <p> The inner conflict proved another challenge . On the one hand , they had just moved to LA to fulfil their dreams of recording music with top producers and songwriters in the industry . On the other hand , they yearned to be back home with their family and friends . <p> " It 's the happiest thing in the world , but you have the dissonance of everything going on back home and how we 're scared for our families , " says Rozenblat . " In the middle of a session , you check your Instagram and see you lost another friend . It 's very conflicting and you have the highest highs and the lowest lows all in the span of ten minutes . It was really difficult to go through that . " <p> They were given the option of going home , but all decided to stay put . <p> It was only on the boot camp that they realised the producers ' intention of forming a mixed group of Israelis and Palestinians and initially it was a " passive statement " for the band . After the Hamas attack that instantly took on a new and deeper meaning and they rapidly became ambassadors for being Israelis and Palestinians together . <p> " Obviously , we did n't choose the context , " says Rozenblat . " It was supposed to be , ' yes , we 're Israeli and Palestinian , but we 're going to make music , and we 're not here to do anything else . ' Obviously , things changed ... We were thrust into this position to represent where we 're from , to represent our people and what it 's like to be Israelis and Palestinians in a co-existing environment . " <p> It 's undeniably an overwhelming responsibility for young people already in the midst of a life-changing moment . <p> " This is an incredible honour , " Rozenblat quickly adds . " While we are standing for the same ideologies that we were before the war started , now it holds a lot more weight , and we 're proud of that . " <p> Ultimately , they are entertainers , aspiring to perform on the world 's biggest stages the same as any other rising stars . <p> " We are here because we are doing music . That 's what we do best , " says Attia . " We 're showing the world that different people can live and be together , especially as these are the hardest times in the Middle East . Music is the best thing to deliver our message . Now , we are on an important mission . " <p> Philips recalls thinking on the boot camp that it was " nice " to bring them all together , but he also remembers pondering , " I wonder how the world will react ? " <p> That has proven a mixed bag . There are plenty voicing their outrage at the band across social media . " This is a disgusting PR stunt , especially considering what 's happening in Gaza and the West Bank , " slammed one user on Reddit . " It 's just Israeli PR bull**** , " said another . <p> One dismissed the band 's Palestinian members as " traitors " who " sold their souls to become Zionist propaganda " . One Instagram user claimed they were trying to " Boy Band away their Genocide " sic . Meanwhile , the news site Middle East Eye called them " Wrong direction " . <p> But the band refuse to be cowed by negativity . " We 're breathing deep , " says Lin , with a half-smile . " There 's a lot of comments , and it 's OK . We respect everything . But we stick to our truth . We keep on doing what we 're doing . " <p> They choose to focus on the positive voices , such as those praising the band for bringing them hope . <p> " For every artist , the haters will always be there , " Attia says , unperturbed . " If you just focus on the positive , it inspires and motivates you . " <p> I wonder what they make of the extensive boycotts of Israeli arts in the UK . <p> " We would love to perform everywhere in the world , and invite everyone to listen to us , " says Farah . " We came here from our different backgrounds and political agendas , but in the end , we are still together , and we hope this can influence people to also see that , no matter where we come from and where you are , you can listen to the songs . " <p> Rozenblat turns to news reports of divisive protests around the world , and people taking a polarised stance on the war on social media . " It 's either this side or that side . There 's no in-between , " he laments . " And they 'll be throwing up this statistic and that statistic , and it 's very easy to dehumanise us and forget the fact that all these statistics are made up of individuals . <p> " That could be my family . It could be my friend . We want people to stop , and to really look us as people . Not to see Israel and Palestine , not to see two groups feuding , but to see humans , to see musicians ... We humanise ourselves . " <p> The songs of their newly released debut EP , they say , are about hope rather than political . Although some social media dissenters objected to the appropriation of the " all eyes on Rafah " tag for their debut single title All Eyes on Us , an upbeat song which they recorded at Abbey Road studios with the legendary Nile Rodgers on guitar . <p> The songs deal with the wildly opposing emotions of their journey . Together As One captures the band 's purpose , while Stranger is about how it feels to be far from home , to have left their homeland before the war and feel scared to go back , " because you wonder if it 's going to be the same , or different , " Attia says . <p> " There 's the happy side of having our dreams come true . There 's the sombre , deep side about what it 's like to be Israelis and Palestinians . Each song has an important message . " <p> Recording the songs -- not least Stop the World on October 9 , " one of the toughest days " of their lives -- provided catharsis in the turmoil . <p> " The music saved us , " says Philips . " It was probably the worst time of our life , but also the most amazing time , because we got to make our dream come true during the tragedies and music was the thing we put all our emotions into . We wrote about it . We cried about it . And it all shows in the songs . " <p> They are glad that the docuseries captures the true reality of their rollercoaster journey as a six-piece . " We 've been going through so , so much , " says Lin . " That pain gave us strength , and nothing can beat us . Now the sky 's the limit . "
