<p> Mr Stephens , 67 , is a Republican donor who previously campaigned against Mr Trump , before financially backing him at this year 's election . <p> He will replace Jane Hartley , the current ambassador to the UK appointed by Joe Biden , after Mr Trump 's inauguration in January . <p> Mr Stephens is a career investment banker in Arkansas , where he has long supported Mike Huckabee , the former state governor who has been appointed as Mr Trump 's ambassador to Israel . <p> He has not served in any government role , and is currently the CEO and president of the family business , Stephens Inc . <h> ' Wonderful firm ' <p> Writing on Truth Social , Mr Trump said : " I am pleased to announce that Warren A Stephens , one of the most successful businessmen in the country , has been nominated to serve as the United States Ambassador to the Court of St James 's , a role in which he will act as our representative to the United Kingdom . <p> " Over the last 38 years , while serving as the president , chairman , and CEO of his company , Stephens Inc , Warren has built a wonderful financial services firm , while selflessly giving back to his community as a philanthropist . <p> " Warren has always dreamed of serving the United States full time . I am thrilled that he will now have that opportunity as the top diplomat , representing the USA to one of America 's most cherished and beloved allies . " <p> His appointment comes at a time for delicate relations between Mr Trump and Sir Keir Starmer , the British Prime Minister who was accused by the president-elect 's allies of interfering in the presidential election when Labour activists campaigned for Kamala Harris . <p> The two men spoke after Mr Trump 's election victory last month , and have pledged to work together on the " special relationship " . <p> Mr Trump has also pledged to impose blanket tariffs of up to 20 per cent on all foreign imports , including from the UK . British ministers have said they will attempt to persuade him to offer the UK access to American markets . <p> Mr Stephens donated to the Stop Trump movement in 2016 , when Mr Trump first ran for president . <h> Latest stories <p> President-elect Donald Trump has named billionaire investment banker Warren Stephens as his envoy to Britain , a prestigious posting for the Republican donor whose contributions this year included $2 million to a Trump-backing super PAC . Trump , in a post on his Truth Social site Monday evening , announced he was selecting Stephens to be the U.S. ambassador to the Court of Saint James . Stephens is the chairman , president and CEO of Little Rock , Arkansas-based financial services firm Stephens Inc. , having taken over the firm from his father . <p> David Prosser , who rose to become speaker of the Wisconsin Assembly before an 18-year tenure on the state Supreme Court that was marked by a heated altercation with another justice , has died . Prosser died on Sunday after battling cancer for several months , his family said in a statement Monday . A Republican , Prosser served 18 years in the Assembly , the last two as speaker , and the same amount of time on the state Supreme Court . <p> Rep. Jamie Raskin of Maryland announced Monday that he will run to become the top Democrat on the powerful House Judiciary Committee next year , directly challenging fellow Democratic Rep. Jerry Nadler as the party prepares to fight a second Trump administration and an emboldened Republican majority . " House Democrats must stand in the breach to defend the principles and institutions of constitutional democracy , " Raskin wrote in a letter to colleagues . Raskin said in the letter -- obtained by The Associated Press -- that he decided to run for the post after spending the week consulting with House Democrats and " engaging in serious introspection " about where the party is following their stunning electoral defeat last month that handed Republicans control of Congress and the White House . <p> The Alberta government plans to review photo radar sites over the next four months in a bid to reduce the number in the province by 70 per cent.Photo radar sites on all provincial highways will be banned on April 1 , except for those located in school , playground and construction zones . The province says it will grant municipalities permission to set up photo radar sites on a case-by-case basis if the case is made to use them in a high collision area . Those extra sites will be reviewed every two <p> Minnesota Republicans filed a lawsuit Monday to try to force a rerun of a state House race where the incumbent Democrat won by 14 votes -- but in which investigators concluded that election workers probably destroyed 20 valid absentee ballots after failing to count them . It 's a race that could determine the balance of power in the Minnesota House , where leaders from both parties are working out the details of a power-sharing agreement that currently presumes a 67-67 tie when the Legislature convenes next month . A Republican victory in a special election could shift that balance to a two-vote , 68-66 GOP majority . <p> President-elect Donald Trump is demanding the immediate release of Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza , saying that if they are not freed before he is sworn into office for a second term there will be " HELL TO PAY . " " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " Trump wrote in a post on his Truth Social site . It was not immediately clear whether Trump was threatening to directly involve the U.S. military in Israel 's ongoing campaign against Hamas in Gaza .
