<h> US lawmakers back Covid Chinese lab leak theory after two-year probe <p> Donald Trump and government scientist Anthony Fauci ( R ) clashed over the response to the pandemic ( MANDEL NGAN ) ( MANDEL NGAN/AFP/AFP ) <p> US lawmakers concluded a two-year investigation Monday into the Covid-19 outbreak that killed 1.1 million Americans -- backing the theory that the virus likely leaked from a Chinese laboratory . <p> A 520-page report from the Republican-controlled House Select Subcommittee on the Coronavirus Pandemic looked at the federal and state-level response , as well as the pandemic 's origins and vaccination efforts . <p> " This work will help the United States , and the world , predict the next pandemic , prepare for the next pandemic , protect ourselves from the next pandemic , and hopefully prevent the next pandemic , " panel chairman Brad Wenstrup said in a letter to Congress . <p> US federal agencies , the World Health Organization and scientists across the planet have arrived at different conclusions about the most likely origin of Covid-19 , and no consensus has emerged . <p> Most believe it to have spread from animals in China , but a US intelligence analysis said last year that the virus may have been genetically engineered and escaped from a virology lab in the Chinese city of Wuhan , where human cases first emerged . <p> The congressional panel was persuaded by the lab leak theory after meeting 25 times , conducting more than 30 transcribed interviews and reviewing more than one million pages of documents . <p> The investigation included two days of interviews behind closed doors with Anthony Fauci , the government scientist who became the nation 's most trusted expert in the chaotic early days of the 2020 outbreak . <p> Fauci 's clashes with former and incoming president Donald Trump over the response sparked fury on the right , and he now lives with security protection following death threats against his family . <p> Republicans accuse the 83-year-old immunologist of helping to set off the worst pandemic in a century by approving funding passed on to Chinese scientists they accuse of manufacturing the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus that causes Covid-19 . <p> Among its headline conclusions , the report said the National Institutes of Health had indeed funded contentious " gain-of-function " research -- which seeks to enhance viruses as a way of finding ways to combat them -- at the Wuhan Institute of Virology . <p> Fauci angrily denied covering up the origins of Covid-19 before the panel in June , arguing that it would be " molecularly impossible " for the bat viruses studied at the lab to be turned into the virus that caused the pandemic . <p> But the panel 's report said SARS-CoV-2 " likely emerged because of a laboratory or research related accident . " <p> The probe found that lockdowns " did more harm than good " and that mask mandates were " ineffective at controlling the spread of Covid-19 , " contradicting other research showing that masking in public does reduce transmission rates . <p> Social distancing guidelines also came under criticism , although travel restrictions were deemed to have saved lives . <p> Investigators found that Trump 's Operation Warp Speed -- the publicly-funded project to develop Covid vaccines -- was a " tremendous success " but that school closures would have an " enduring impact " on US children . <p> ft/jgc <h> Latest stories <p> The House Select Subcommittee on the Coronavirus Pandemic released its final report Monday , laying out numerous conclusions from its review of the federal pandemic response , including what the Republican-controlled panel believes to be the likely origins of the virus . The 520-page document encompassed a wide range of issues relating to the pandemic including vaccinations , public ... <p> The House Oversight and Accountability Committee 's COVID-19 panel issued its final report on Monday ahead of a hearing this week . The report yields five points of bipartisan consensus and seven findings . The report addresses the origins of the virus ; U.S. funding for the lab in Wuhan , China , from which the report states the virus almost ... <p> Romania 's constitutional court on Monday certified the shock first-round results of the presidential election , confirming the lead of pro-Russia nationalist Calin Georgescu , who will face liberal leader Elena Lasconi in the run-off on Sunday . After a ballot recount , a top Romanian court on Monday validated the first round of a presidential race in which a far-right outsider emerged as the frontrunner , plunging the country into turmoil amid allegations of electoral violations and Russian meddling <p> House Speaker Mike Johnson ( R-La. ) threw his support behind Kash Patel , President-elect Trump 's nominee to head the FBI , calling him an " America First patriot . " In a post on the social platform X replying to the announcement , Johnson congratulated Patel on his nomination . " Kash Patel has extensive experience in national security and intelligence , " he wrote . " He is an ... <p> President-elect Donald Trump is demanding the immediate release of Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza , saying that if they are not freed before he is sworn into office for a second term there will be " HELL TO PAY . " " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " Trump wrote in a post on his Truth Social site . It was not immediately clear whether Trump was threatening to directly involve the U.S. military in Israel 's ongoing campaign against Hamas in Gaza . <p> Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos on Monday described as " very worrisome " the presence of a Russian attack submarine off the country 's coast in the disputed South China Sea.Roy Vincent Trinidad , spokesman for the navy in the South China Sea , said the incident is " not alarming " .
