<p> At an inquest into his death held at Gloucestershire Coroner 's Court on Tuesday , Lady Gabriella , 43 , called for people to be warned about the effects of medications used to treat mental health conditions or she feared more people could die . <p> The inquest was told that Kingston , 45 , a financier , had initially been given sertraline , a drug used to treat depression , and zopiclone , a sleeping tablet , by a GP at the Royal Mews Surgery , a practice at Buckingham Palace used by royal household staff , after complaining of trouble sleeping following stress at work . <p> Kingston returned to the surgery saying they were not making him feel better , and his doctor moved him from sertraline to citalopram , a similar drug . <p> Thomas Kingston and Lady Gabriella Kingston after their wedding at St George 's Chapel in Windsor in 2019 ( PA Archive ) <p> In the days leading up to his death , Kingston had stopped taking medication , and toxicology tests showed caffeine and small amounts of zopiclone in his system . <p> In a statement read out by Katy Skerrett , senior coroner for Gloucestershire , Lady Gabriella said : " Work was certainly a challenge for him over the years but I highly doubt it would have led him to take his own life , and it seemed much improved . <p> " If anything had been troubling him , I 'm positive that he would have shared that he was struggling severely . <p> " The fact that he took his life at the home of his beloved parents suggests the decision was the result of a sudden impulse . " <p> She said she believed his death was " likely provoked " by an adverse reaction to the medication he had begun , and subsequently stopped , taking , in the weeks leading up to his death . <p> " The lack of any evidence of inclination , it seems highly likely to me that he had an adverse reaction to the pills that led him to take his life , " Lady Gabriella said . <p> " I believe anyone taking pills such as these need to be made more aware of the side effects to prevent any future deaths . If this could happen to Tom , this could happen to anyone . " <p> In his final weeks , Lady Gabriella said her husband had " seemed normal " , apart from early in the day after previously taking zopiclone , which she said made him seem " almost hungover " . <p> In her statement , she described their marriage as " deeply loving and trusting " and said he had never expressed any suicidal thoughts to her or others . <p> She added that he had been deeply affected by the suicide of a friend and the " devastating impact it had on other people 's loved ones " . <p> Lady Gabriella , whose wedding to Kingston included Queen Elizabeth II and the late Duke of Edinburgh among the guests , cried while she sat in the coroner 's court as her statement was read out . <p> Thomas Kingston died from a head injury and a gun was found near his body on 25 February at his parents ' home in the Cotswolds ( PA Archive ) <p> Recording a narrative conclusion , Ms Skerrett said : " Mr Kingston took his own life using a shotgun which caused a severe traumatic wound to the head . <p> " The evidence of his wife , family and business partner all supports his lack of suicidal intent . He was suffering adverse effects of medication he had recently been prescribed . " <p> She said she intended to draft a prevention of future deaths report , which would be sent to medical bodies . <p> Mr Kingston 's father , William Martin Kingston , broke down in tears as he described finding his son in the locked bathroom of a detached annexe , having used a crowbar to break down the door . <p> He told the court his son had always had a strong , resilient character , having previously suffered from a pain condition which left him needing help to get up the stairs . <p> He told the coroner that leading up to his son 's death there did not appear to have been any searches for suicide , and no will or note was left , describing the method as " very ragged " which was simply " out of character " . <p> Dr David Healy , a psychiatric medical expert who gave evidence to the hearing , said zopiclone could also cause anxiety , while sertraline and citalopram were both selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) , and essentially the same . <p> Dr Healy said Kingston 's complaints that sertraline was continuing to make him anxious was a sign SSRIs " did not suit him " , and he should not have been prescribed the same thing again . <p> He said the guidelines and labels for SSRIs were not clear enough about going on the drugs in the first place , or what the effect could be when moving from one to another . <p> " We need a much more explicit statement saying that these drugs can cause people to commit suicide who would n't have otherwise , " he said . <p> Addressing the coroner , Martin Porter , counsel for the family , said : " The family do n't blame his GP Doctor Naunton Morgan , she was acting as good doctors do . But the question is whether there is sufficient advice to doctors on SSRIs . " <p> If you are experiencing feelings of distress and isolation , or are struggling to cope , The Samaritans offers support ; you can speak to someone for free over the phone , in confidence , on 116 123 ( UK and ROI ) , email jo@samaritans.org , or visit the Samaritans website to find details of your nearest branch . <p> For services local to you , the national mental health database -- Hub of Hope -- allows you to enter your postcode to search for organisations and charities who offer mental health advice and support in your area . <p> TV presenter Fearne Cotton has revealed she will undergo an operation to remove two benign tumours from her jaw . The podcast host announced the news in an Instagram video on Tuesday , as she revealed she has been supported by fellow presenter Davina McCall , who had surgery on a rare brain tumour last month . <p> The president of South Korea early Wednesday lifted the martial law he imposed on the country hours earlier , bending to political pressure after a tense night in which troops surrounded parliament and lawmakers voted to reject military rule . President Yoon Suk Yeol , who appeared likely to be impeached over his actions , imposed martial law late Tuesday out of frustration with the opposition , vowing to eliminate " anti-state " forces as he struggles against opponents who control parliament and that he accuses of sympathizing with communist North Korea . Police and military personnel were seen leaving the grounds of parliament following the bipartisan vote to overrule the president , and the declaration was formally lifted around 4:30 a.m. during a Cabinet meeting . <p> Donald Trump has filed a motion to dismiss the hush money case in which he was convicted due to his victory in the US presidential election . In May , a New York jury found Mr Trump guilty of 34 counts of falsifying business records to commit election fraud . It was the first time a US president had been convicted of or charged with a criminal offence . <p> US President-elect Donald Trump on Monday warned Gaza militants of massive repercussions if hostages are not released by the time he takes office . " If the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " Trump wrote on his Truth Social platform .
