<h> UK delays full shift to digital immigration system amid eVisa flaws <p> The Home Office is setting up a 24-hour helpline for airlines struggling to identify documents over the new year.Photograph : Fabrizio Bensch/Reuters <p> Passengers will be allowed to use expired identity documents to travel to the UK because of flaws in the eVisa system , a minister has told the Guardian . <p> Seema Malhotra , the migration and citizenship minister , said the government had postponed a planned full shift to the new digital immigration system amid " real fear " of another Windrush-style scandal among minority communities . <p> It follows complaints from eVisa applicants who have failed to gain access to the new digital immigration system so they can demonstrate they have a right to return to their homes in the UK . <p> Most physical documentation proving the right to remain in the UK , such as biometric residence permits , will no longer be valid as proof of residency from 31 December . <p> It is understood that hundreds of UK residents have struggled to access the system from abroad and so can not return to their homes , Home Office insiders said . Migrant workers have complained that without an eVisa , they could not access employment or housing . <p> Malhotra said : " I have heard a range of concerns , including that the move to eVisas might negatively impact the vulnerable and elderly , leaving them unable to demonstrate their rights . I know that international travel is also a particular point of concern ahead of the festive period . <p> " I have therefore brought in changes to reflect these concerns ... This includes working with airlines to allow biometric residence permits or EU settlement scheme ( EUSS ) biometric residence cards that expire on or after 31 December to be accepted as valid evidence of permission to travel until 31 March 2025 . " <p> Malhotra , who represents the multicultural seat of Feltham and Heston , said there were concerns that without access to eVisas , migrant communities could be locked out of their rights . <p> The new Labour government committed to righting the wrongs of Windrush . <p> Malhotra said : " For migrant communities , there is the real fear of something going wrong with Home Office systems and the ongoing impact when it does on every aspect of your life . That 's why we 've been so focused on listening , " she said . <p> The Home Office is setting up a 24-hour helpline for airlines struggling to identify documents over the new year . It is understood that hundreds of UK residents have struggled to access the eVisa system , Home Office insiders said . <p> The Home Office has been issuing eVisas for several years -- including the EU settlement scheme ( EUSS ) after Brexit , skilled work visas , and for Hongkongers applying for the British national ( overseas ) visa . <p> Paper documents were supposed to be completely phased out and replaced from 1 January . The UK Home Office ceased to issue physical biometric residence permits on 31 October 2024 . Employees holding physical permits were required to register for an eVisa before the end of the year . <p> The last government in April announced the plan for a full rollout of eVisas starting on New Year 's Day . Tom Pursglove , the then Tory minister for legal migration , said it would " ensure firm control over who comes here to live , work or study , strengthening border security and preventing abuse of the immigration system " . <p> Malhotra said problems in the system were exacerbated by the plan to launch the rollout on New Year 's Day , when so many people would be travelling and there is an international public holiday . <p> " I still find it staggering that the Tories chose 1 January to roll out the biggest change to immigration documents for a generation on an international public holiday -- risking a cliff-edge , when hardly anyone is working , " she said . <p> Andreea Dumitrache , the chief executive of the3million , the largest grassroots group representing EU citizens in the UK , welcomed the development but warned that there could still be travel chaos over the new year . " The Home Office has a mammoth task ahead . To avoid travel chaos , they need to deliver an exceptionally well organised and resourced communication campaign to get airlines to accept expired documents , worldwide . It can not be left to people to convince carriers to let them travel . It 's clear the current system is not fit for purpose , " she said . <p> President-elect Donald Trump is demanding the immediate release of Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza , saying that if they are not freed before he is sworn into office for a second term there will be " HELL TO PAY . " " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " Trump wrote in a post on his Truth Social site . It was not immediately clear whether Trump was threatening to directly involve the U.S. military in Israel 's ongoing campaign against Hamas in Gaza . <p> China announced Tuesday it is banning exports to the United States of gallium , germanium , antimony and other key high-tech materials with potential military applications , as a general principle , lashing back at U.S. limits on semiconductor-related exports . The Chinese Commerce Ministry announced the move after the Washington expanded its list of Chinese companies subject to export controls on computer chip-making equipment , software and high-bandwidth memory chips . <p> " I have this impression that ( the Russians ) have unlimited people , " said Oleksandr , a Ukrainian unit commander . " The next Russians , it seems , do not know what happened to the previous Russians . They go there , into the unknown . No one tells them anything about it , and no one comes back . " <p> French far-right leader Marine Le Pen appears to be betting her future on ousting President Emmanuel Macron before his term ends in 2027 , lawmakers and analysts say . To do so , she has helped trigger France 's second political crisis in six months . Prime Minister Michel Barnier on Monday chose to ram through parliament a key component of the 2025 budget bill after Le Pen and her National Rally ( RN ) party rejected a last-minute concession aimed at securing their support .
