<p> A proof-of-life video that Hamas released of the American-Israeli citizen Edan Alexander , 20 , whom the terror group is holding hostage in Gaza , is " cruel psychological warfare , " Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu stated on Saturday night . <p> Netanyahu told Alexander 's family on Saturday evening that " he feels the suffering that Edan and the hostages and their families are enduring , " and the prime minister " promised that Israel is determined to take every action to bring them back home , together with all of the hostages held by the enemy , " his office stated . <p> Sean Savett , a spokesman for the White House National Security Council , stated that the video , which runs about three-and-a-half minutes , " is a cruel reminder of Hamas 's terror against citizens of multiple countries , including our own . " <p> " We have been in touch with Edan 's family . The war in Gaza would stop tomorrow and the suffering of Gazans would end immediately -- and would have ended months ago -- if Hamas agreed to release the hostages , " Savett stated . <p> " It has refused to do so , but as the president said last week , we have a critical opportunity to conclude the deal to release the hostages , stop the war and surge humanitarian assistance into Gaza , " he wrote . <p> " This deal is on the table now . President Biden and the United States will continue to work around the clock to secure the release of our citizens including through diplomatic efforts and by increasing pressure on Hamas terrorists through sanctions , law enforcement actions and other measures , " Savett added . ( Biden did not release a statement directly about the propaganda video of the American-Israeli hostage . ) <p> Some publications posted the video , which appears to show Alexander in distress and asking both Netanyahu and US President-elect Donald Trump to negotiate for his release . It also seems to show him crying and saying that anti-government protesters should take to Israeli streets . <p> Rep. Brad Sherman ( D-Calif. ) wrote that " the recent hostage video of U.S. citizen Edan Alexander is a devastating reminder of Hamas 's brutality . " <p> " We must remember that on Oct. 7 , Hamas brutally killed or took captive not only Israelis ( both Jewish and Arab ) , but also Americans and citizens of well over a dozen different countries , " the Jewish congressman added . <p> New Jersey Gov . Phil Murphy ( D ) wrote that " Edan Alexander grew up in New Jersey and has been held hostage by Hamas for over a year . " <p> " I join the Alexander family in urging both the Biden administration and incoming Trump Administration to do everything possible to quickly facilitate an agreement that brings him home safe , " he added . <p> " While it 's some relief to see proof of life of Edan Alexander , a 20-year-old U.S. citizen held hostage by Hamas in Gaza , this is terrorist propaganda , and his loved ones should not have to experience such psychological torture , " wrote Jonathan Greenblatt , CEO and national director of the Anti-Defamation League . <p> Mark Dubowitz , the CEO of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies , wrote that Trump " has a chance to make history . " <p> " In his first term , he excelled at bringing hostages home . Acting now could save lives and begin his second term with a monumental achievement , " Dubowitz stated . " This may be the final opportunity to free the hostages . Time is of the essence . " <p> Joe Truzman , a senior research analyst at FDD , wrote that " Hamas released hostage footage of Israeli-American soldier Edan Alexander , where he asks Israelis to pressure the government to accept a ceasefire . " <p> " Hamas knows when to activate levers to pressure the Israeli government , " Truzman wrote . " Now that there is some reported movement on ceasefire talks , Hamas propaganda has published this footage . Unfortunately , there will likely be more . "
