<h> ' The whole foundation is rocking ' : inside the explosive film about the investigation of Benjamin Netanyahu <p> The Bibi Files contains leaked footage of the Israeli PM being interrogated by police over allegations of corruption -- and argues that these are partly why he has taken the region into the abyss . We meet the journalist behind it <p> The Bibi Files , a new documentary , begins with its eponymous antihero , Benjamin Netanyahu , being read his rights by police interrogators . His oblong , jowled face is well known -- Netanyahu has been Israel 's prime minister for a total of 17 years -- but we are accustomed to seeing him in charge of events , behind a lectern haranguing his country and the world beyond . We have never seen him like this . <p> Late last year , videos of police questioning of Netanyahu , his family , his rich backers and his disillusioned aides were leaked to Alex Gibney , an Oscar-winning American documentary maker and one of the producers of The Bibi Files . The tapes were recorded between 2016 and 2018 and appear for the first time in The Bibi Files , which premiered at festivals in Toronto and New York but still can not be viewed in Israel . <p> During the questioning , we see Netanyahu project derision , bewilderment , boredom -- and anger <p> From the outset , we see Netanyahu literally backed into a corner , behind his desk , fending off a barrage of questions about lavish gifts which the police claim he received in return for favours , and about political favours that they claim were bestowed in return for flattering news coverage . <p> The leaked tapes themselves are compelling , but the director , Alexis Bloom , seeks to go further . The Bibi Files appears to draw a bright , bold , causal line between Netanyahu 's 2019 corruption indictment and the current state of the region . Netanyahu has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing , alleging he is the victim of a politically motivated witch-hunt orchestrated by liberal media and a biased justice system , and he formally pleaded not guilty in a trial which has now continued , off and on , since 2020 . However , the film argues that the trial is part of the reason a desperate Netanyahu took his country and the surrounding region into the abyss . Netanyahu has said throughout the war that he is motivated by the need to reestablish Israel 's security . <p> Raviv Drucker , an Israeli television journalist and co -- producer of The Bibi Files , has devoted much of his career to investigating allegations of corruption surrounding Netanyahu and his family . He says he always operated on the assumption that no one should be above the law , but now swears that , if he had known where Netanyahu would lead the country , he would rather the prime minister had never been indicted . <p> " If you had taken me through some kind of time tunnel and shown me where we are in 2024 , I would have told you : ' Just do n't start with these cases . ' I would throw all of them in the garbage , even though some of them started with my investigations , " Drucker tells me during a work visit to Japan . " This is the honest truth , because none of us would have imagined what Netanyahu would do . " <p> In a series of tableaux , we see the embattled politician confront his accusers . A uniformed officer opens proceedings by warning that anything Netanyahu says may be used in a court of law , and the prime minister reaches for a bottle of mineral water , as if looking for something to do that will come across as nonchalant . In the questioning that follows , Netanyahu will seek to project derision , bewilderment , boredom and anger . Yet sometimes , when the police reveal some unexpected piece of evidence appearing to corroborate their allegations , it is possible to catch a glint of terror in his eyes . <p> The setting for much of the drama is Netanyahu 's surprisingly modest office : an average-sized desk , a big map of the Middle East at his back , a shredder and an unplugged mobile radiator beside him . The prime minister knows full well his interrogation sessions are being filmed and may one day become public , but The Bibi Files is surely an outcome beyond his worst imagining . <p> Bloom , the director and co-producer , is a South African who has previously exposed some powerful and venal men . Her 2018 film Divide and Conquer looks at the rise and fall of the former Fox News boss and Trump-booster Roger Ailes . <p> Drucker , Netanyahu 's nemesis for many years , plays the role of chorus in The Bibi Files , chronicling the prime minister 's slide towards war and extremism . Netanyahu has tried to stop the film coming out with a series of injunctions aimed against Drucker , and his demeanour palpably tenses when the police drop the journalist 's name in one of their sessions with him . <p> Sharp turn to the right ... Netanyahu in The Bibi Files . Photograph : ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? /Toronto film festival <p> Netanyahu tried to shrug off Drucker , as he has largely ignored Israeli media as a whole in recent years , but he could not dodge the police when they asked the same questions . " It 's pretty remarkable . It 's tens of hours of the most powerful men and women in Israel in the most extraordinary situation , where they are fighting for their lives , and it 's amazing to watch , " the journalist says . <p> We do not just see Netanyahu being quizzed , we also watch Israel 's super-rich squirm in the face of questions about the lavish gifts police claim that they presented to the prime minister and his wife , Sara . In the film , giving various accounts from former aides , it appears that the couple were not shy about soliciting such gifts -- though the Netanyahus deny demanding presents from rich friends . In the particular case of a gift of jewellery worth tens of thousands of dollars , Sara tells the police in the film : " I did not personally ask for a ring and a necklace . " Her husband said he had no knowledge of it . <p> In return , it is alleged that favours were distributed , such as a US visa procured for a tycoon thanks to Netanyahu 's direct intervention with the then secretary of state , John Kerry . In another case , it is claimed that a government document was drafted and signed for a mogul , giving him access to hundreds of millions dollars in short-term funds which saved him from bankruptcy . <p> Netanyahu slaloms through the inquisition , dismissing some matters as trivial and private -- simply gifts from close friends -- his eyebrow raised at the impertinence of the questioner . Much of the time he claims simply not to remember . <p> Only occasionally does he seem to lose his temper and bang his desk , but when he does it comes across as just another act in the overall performance . By contrast , Sara Netanyahu 's rage seems genuine . She screams at the policemen that wherever her husband goes in the world , he is " treated like a king " . ( The film was made before the International Criminal Court issued arrest warrants for Netanyahu for war crimes in Gaza . Israel is appealing the warrants and Netanyahu denies the allegations , but meanwhile the prime minister 's travel options are limited . ) <p> The couple 's son , Yair , who we learn in The Bibi Files may be groomed as a successor , is even more unbridled in his contempt for his interrogators than his parents , comparing them to the Gestapo . The inflammatory rhetoric he has spread online embodies the end-point of his father 's political journey from centre-right dealmaker to the head of the most extreme government in Israeli history . It includes previously fringe figures such as Itamar Ben-Gvir , who has a past conviction for inciting racial hatred , and Bezalel Smotrich , a former political activist who was arrested in 2005 in possession of 700 litres of petrol allegedly intended for use in blowing up a motorway running through Tel Aviv -- though he was released after three weeks without charge , and denied the allegation . They are now ministers for national security and finance respectively . <p> Drucker argues that Netanyahu 's sharp turn to the right has its origins in his corruption indictment . The prime minister stunned people by refusing to resign , and when the indictment narrowed the field of Israeli parties willing to form a coalition government with him he turned in 2022 to the only alternative that would keep him in power . <p> " This is the only reason that he established the most far-right coalition that was ever established in the history of Israel , " Drucker said . " Ben-Gvir and Smotrich are two lunatics from the far right . They represented a tiny fraction of the population . " <p> Following the far-right agenda of his coalition partners , meanwhile , entailed focusing the military 's effort in the West Bank in support of Israeli settlers , moving units and weaponry away from the south , where Hamas struck in October last year , killing 1,200 Israelis and taking 250 hostage . " Hamas of course has always wanted to destroy us . It 's not because of Bibi , " Drucker stresses . " But they recognised a great opportunity and they took advantage of it . " <p> Once the Gaza war had been started by Hamas , Netanyahu has had every reason to keep it going , even after almost every Hamas leader and military commander has been killed , among an estimated 44,000 Palestinians in total . <p> His hard-right partners could tolerate a truce in Lebanon but would walk out of the coalition if there is a hostage deal with Hamas involving a prisoner exchange and a ceasefire . That would trigger new elections -- which opinion polls suggest Netanyahu would lose . He would be stripped of the executive power he has been using to stay out of court and potentially out of jail . <p> " That would be a disaster for him , " Drucker said . " He will do everything he needs to keep on going with the war , and he will keep on going until there is a situation when it endangers his political survival . And then he will stop the war . " <p> Throughout the Gaza war , Netanyahu has insisted that it was Hamas who were the main obstacles to a ceasefire deal , but at the same time insisted that he prosecute the conflict until " total victory " , the complete destruction of Hamas . <p> Even if Netanyahu ends up being convicted , Drucker doubts he will ever spend time in jail , but will rather keep his appeals going until his advancing age leads him to be spared from incarceration . <p> But after all his years investigating Netanyahu , culminating in The Bibi Files , Drucker finds that he cares much less about the prime minister 's ultimate fate than he used to . " Two years ago , it was the whole world for us : the rule of law , everybody being equal , even the prime minister , " he says . " But now we are stuck in such a terrible mess in Israel . Our whole foundation is rocking every day beneath our feet . Now all we want is to live without the sirens and having to take our kids to air raid shelters . " <p> The Bibi Files will be released in UK and Irish cinemas and on demand on 13 December
