<h> How the Trump factor pushed Israel towards Lebanon ceasefire <h> The Biden White House may have brokered the deal , Bill Clinton 's Middle East envoy writes , but it 's the next presidency that 's shaping Binyamin Netanyahu 's view <p> The 60-day ceasefire ends fighting in which Netanyahu 's Israel has killed about 3,800 Lebanese people <p> Dennis Ross <p> Sunday December 01 2024 , 12.01am , The Sunday Times <p> The ceasefire agreement between Israel and Lebanon , brokered by President Biden 's administration , is holding . While the skill of Biden 's envoy , Amos Hochstein , was crucial to producing the agreement , a number of realities made it possible . They include Israel 's military achievements , Iran 's implicit acknowledgment of those achievements , the desire of the Lebanese to end the war , and a decisive move from Binyamin Netanyahu , the Israeli prime minister , who was prepared to accept the agreement even though he knew that some of his coalition members and mayors in northern Israel would be likely to oppose it . <p> Those on the right of Netanyahu argued that there was an opportunity to eliminate Hezbollah . He knew that Hezbollah could not be eliminated but could be weakened further , yet he chose to accept the ceasefire -- to the dismay of many Israelis . Netanyahu has not made a career of going against his base but he did so this time and Donald Trump 's imminent return to the White House probably played a part in his decision . <p> To unpick Netanyahu 's reasoning , first consider Israel 's achievements on the battlefield . The Israel Defence Forces ( IDF ) has decimated Hezbollah 's leadership , killed most of its commanders , destroyed as much as 80 per cent of its rockets and dismantled much of its infrastructure . <p> Displaced Lebanese return to their ruined town of Dahiyeh last week after the ceasefire began on Wednesday <p> WAEL HAMZEH/EPA <p> This has not just been a disaster for Hezbollah : it has been devastating for Iran . Hezbollah is the crown jewel of what Iran calls the " axis of resistance " . It trained all the other Iranian proxies , helped them develop their own weapons industries , served as the shock troops for Iran in Syria -- and its pre-war stockpile of 150,000 rockets was a deterrent against Israel attacking the Iranian nuclear programme . That deterrent is now gone . For Iran , the longer the war went on , the weaker Hezbollah would become . It simply could not afford to lose Hezbollah and a ceasefire became increasingly necessary . <p> No doubt in part because of all its extraordinary successes , the IDF was also ready to bring the war to an end . After more than a year of war , it needs to replenish its munitions , and its forces , especially its reserves , are in need of rest . The IDF believes it has achieved its most important war goal : destruction of Hezbollah 's Radwan forces and their infrastructure along the Israeli border , reducing the chance of an October 7-style attack from Lebanon . <h> Advertisement <p> Moreover , the IDF has a long memory of being stuck in southern Lebanon for 18 years after the 1982 war . As one senior Israeli officer said to me : " We know what it means to be stuck in the Lebanese mud and we can not let that happen this time . " <p> So Netanyahu had good reason to go for a ceasefire , provided it ensured that Hezbollah could not come back to the south or reconstitute the threat it had posed . And the weak Lebanese government had a strong interest in ending a war that has killed roughly 3,800 Lebanese people and displaced more than one million . <p> But ending wars in the Middle East is never easy . All the moving parts must be aligned . Here the Biden administration stepped in , with Hochstein orchestrating the moves , knowing that all parties might want this to end -- but none wanted to admit that they needed it to end more than the others did . <p> Amos Hochstein <p> BILAL HUSSEIN/AP <p> The death of Hassan Nasrallah , Hezbollah 's former leader , removed a significant obstacle to a deal . Hochstein and the Biden administration understood that meant it would be possible at long last to implement the provisions of UN Security Council Resolution 1701 -- which mandated the demilitarisation of the area in Lebanon south of the Litani River to the Israeli border and no rearmament of Hezbollah . <p> The group had violated these provisions from the time the resolution was adopted in 2006 . But the circumstances are different now : Hezbollah is dramatically weaker ; Israel , after October 7 last year , will take no chances and will react to any violation ; and the Biden administration is assuming greater responsibility today than it did in 2006 , by monitoring implementation of the agreement and chairing the committee for dealing with possible violations . <h> Advertisement <p> Will the ceasefire in Lebanon provide a spur to ending the war in Gaza ? Biden hopes so , provided the hostages are released . To produce what Biden hopes will be " a day after " in Gaza would require some combination of Arab states -- the United Arab Emirates ( UAE ) , Egypt , Morocco , Bahrain and others -- playing a role in administering Gaza on a transitional basis . That would allow Israel to withdraw and create , in time , a reformed Palestinian Authority to replace Hamas in Gaza . <p> For Netanyahu the political price of this would be high , with the hawkish ministers Itamar Ben-Gvir and Bezalel Smotrich threatening to leave the government . While Netanyahu 's political position has improved over the last couple of months , with his Likud party clearly doing better in the polls , the current coalition would not survive a new election . <p> Polling by the Maariv newspaper last week , two days after the ceasefire , found that neither Likud nor its rivals would gain enough seats to win a majority if there was an election , although it suggested that Naftali Bennett , the former prime minister , might gain enough seats to form a coalition government if he re-entered politics at the head of a new right-wing party . <p> Given that , no one in the current government has an interest in going to the polls -- and that includes Netanyahu . He certainly does not want the government to collapse , but then neither do Ben-Gvir nor Smotrich want to be seen as being responsible for bringing down a right-wing/religious government . <p> From that standpoint , an end to the war -- which does not leave a vacuum but also does not have Israel still in Gaza -- will test both the prime minister and those messianic nationalist ministers who seem primed to challenge him should he withdraw from Gaza and reject their aim of resettling it . <h> Advertisement <p> But here again we see the Trump factor at work . He wants the war in Gaza to be over . In Israel , Trump is seen as a strong supporter of the Jewish state -- although not necessarily a predictable one . In the current circumstances , with Israel increasingly isolated internationally , Trump 's already significant leverage -- meaning there is a cost in saying no to him -- will become even greater . <p> Remember that during Trump 's first term , Netanyahu refrained from annexing territory in the West Bank after announcing that Israel would do so in the areas allotted to it as part of Trump 's peace plan , unveiled in 2020 . <p> Trump has said that expanding the Abraham Accords is a priority for him . These accords , also agreed in 2020 , normalised relations between Israel and the UAE , Bahrain , and Morocco . Trump wants to bring Saudi Arabia on board . But the Saudis will require an end to the war in Gaza and a credible pathway to a Palestinian state . <p> Netanyahu may therefore soon face some hard choices : acquiesce to Trump and risk his coalition , or reject Trump and face uncertain consequences . Knowing that Netanyahu 's priority has always been to neutralise Iran , he may propose a trade-off : if Trump takes care of the Iranian nuclear programme he will respond to what Trump asks of him regarding the Palestinians . For Bibi , the great survivor , agreeing to a ceasefire in Lebanon may be the easy part . <p> Dennis Ross is an American diplomat who served as Middle East envoy under President Clinton , and as a special assistant to President Obama
