<h> Mass migration , war and poverty : How Scotland provides the remedy for bad capitalism <p> The Herald on Sunday met with two globally respected academics to find out precisely how we got into this state , and how we get out of it . <p> Two of the world 's brightest minds have diagnosed what 's wrong with the world and the solutions needed to take us back from the cliff edge . They talk to our Writer at Large <p> IF you want a date for when it all went wrong -- when all our modern woes began , from the cost of living crisis and the rise of populism , to rampant inequality and rage over mass migration -- then head back to 1973 . <p> It 's then that an oil crisis in the Middle East set in train a series of events which would eventually lead to the dire state the world finds itself in today . The crisis would change modern capitalism so profoundly that it became the accelerant for the war , poverty , and division which currently surround us . <p> The oil crisis explains how we got to where we are today . But there 's also a way out . Capitalism can be reformed -- without any need for revolutions or upheavals -- so it works for everyone , not just the rich . We can fix it . We can apply the brakes , reverse away from the cliff edge . <p> And some of the solutions might be found very close to home , here in Scotland . <p> But if we do n't change the course we are on ... well , the chaos we 've lived through already will be just the beginning , and much worse will lie ahead . <p> Two of the world 's brightest minds paint this picture . First , there 's Professor Randall Hansen , an Oxford-educated political scientist and one of the world 's leading experts on migration and war . <p> He holds the chair in Global Migration at the University of Toronto . His book , War , Work and Want : How the Opec Oil Crisis Caused Mass Migration and Revolution , explains the way upset in the Middle East half a century ago unleashed historic tides that today threaten to rip apart Western democracies . <p> Professor Randall Hansen <p> Then there 's the economist Professor Colin Mayer from Oxford University . He 's been dean of the Sa ? d Business School at Oxford , the academic lead on the British Academy Future of the Corporation programme , co-chair of the Scottish Government 's Business Purpose Commission , and a member of the UK Competition Appeal Tribunal , and the International Advisory Committee of the Securities and Exchange Board of India . <p> Mayer 's book , Capitalism and Crises : How to Fix Them , does exactly what it says on the tin . It provides a roadmap to escape the catastrophes which flowed from those events in the Middle East back in 1973 . <p> Prof Colin Mayer <p> Hansen and Mayer have written two essential books -- indispensable to understanding our present dilemmas and the possible remedies . <p> The Herald on Sunday met with both of these globally respected academics to find out precisely how we got into this state , and how we get out of it . <p> Oil <p> Hansen begins by explaining that the French call the three decades after the Second World War " Les Trente Glorieuses " -- The Glorious Thirty . " There was sustained economic growth everywhere of 5-6% per year , " he says . " This supported increased working-class wages , consumerist lifestyles , and expanded living standards . Everyone thought it was going to last forever . But it had an Achilles ' heel -- the whole system was highly dependent on cheap energy imports , above all oil . " <p> That oil came from the Middle East , especially the Persian Gulf states . " They were meant to be our pliant neo-colonial partners . " But that all changed in 1973 when " Opec -- the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries -- said ' enough ' . " <p> Why ? Tensions had simmered over Western support for Israel since the 1967 Six-Day War which led to the occupation of the Golan Heights , West Bank , Sinai Peninsula and Gaza Strip , along with the displacement of around 300,000 Palestinian civilians . The conflict " enraged Arab opinion " , Hansen explains . <p> Then on October 6 , 1973 , the Yom Kippur War broke out between Israel and a coalition of Arab states . On October 16 , Opec announced that the price of oil would go up . An oil embargo was placed on countries that had supported Israel including Britain , America , Canada , Japan , and the Netherlands . And that 's when the 1973 oil crisis began . <p> Hansen says that the " restriction of supply led to a quadrupling of oil prices within one year " , adding : " The oil price surged and destroyed high economic growth in the West -- forever . We 've never recovered . Look at the charts . We went from 5-6% growth to 2.5% . Standards of living and wages had been going up , up , up and then they flatlined . Opec was the cause of all that . " <p> Although the embargo was short-lived , the surge in oil prices effectively " lasted a decade " . As a result , the West endured 10 years of " structural damage " . <p> It 's at this stage that the West " enters the era of neoliberalism " -- in effect , a highly unregulated , free market free-for-all . <p> For waiting in the wings , and soon to be elected amid economic panic , was the Conservative Party under Margaret Thatcher , and the Republican Party under Ronald Reagan -- both supporters of neoliberal policies . Both leaders " were no longer interested in achieving full employment , but rather tempering inflation " . <p> Neoliberalism had n't gained traction during The Glorious Thirty , but now as the economy reeled , it stepped into the spotlight . <p> In Britain , as the oil crisis triggered " mass inflation and declining standards of living " , workers " tried to recapture lost wages through mass strikes " , Hansen explains . That was a gift to Thatcher . She could now blame Britain 's economic woes on " greedy unions " . Thatcher smashed the unions , with miners her symbolic enemy . Reagan also symbolically smashed US unions -- targeting air traffic controllers . <p> Britain 's unions must accept some blame for what happened , Hansen says . They were " partly the authors of their own misfortune " . The " adversarial relationship between unions and management made it very difficult to cope with the economic crisis " . <p> Thatcher <p> Once Reagan and Thatcher " devastated " union opposition , we began to see " the collapse of working-class wages and spiralling inequality . It occurred everywhere in the West but went much further in America and Britain " . <p> North Sea oil helped create the illusion of wealth in Britain , says Hansen . In effect , North Sea oil was exploited by Thatcher to prop up her government . A programme of privatisation began , selling off national assets to corporations . In traditional blue-collar industries like construction " wages and working conditions collapsed " . <p> With unions bust , and wages on the skids , workers voted with their feet and began leaving blue-collar industries . Evidently , some major blue-collar industries just " disappeared " , like shipbuilding . In manufacturing , jobs began to be outsourced overseas . For jobs that could n't be outsourced , corporations " brought in cheap , exploitable migrant labour " . <p> We 're now in the foothills of globalisation . Unions are decimated , wages suppressed , inequality is growing , domestic industries are collapsing , jobs are shifting overseas , and migrant labour is being imported to do the work Brits -- and Americans and other Westerners -- wo n't do . <p> So it was n't mass migration which caused a decline in living standards , it was the economic policies of most Western governments . " Cheap migrant labour was the effect , not the cause of the destruction of working-class jobs , " Hansen adds . <p> The line between Opec , the economic policies of the 1980s , and the rise of populism now becomes visible . " Neither Brexit nor Trump would have happened had there not been the devastation of the unions and working-class wages . " <p> Both Brexit and support for Trump were " partly a protest " by the working class . None of this was inevitable , says Hansen . Denmark , for instance , chose to protect workers ' rights . <p> The effects of the oil crisis would also accelerate terrorism , revolution and war . In Iran , oil money led to the rise of a middle class who wanted more democracy . The Shah eventually fell , but instead of democracy , the Iranian revolution led to an Islamic state . <p> War <p> " THAT gave Saddam Hussein his moment to invade Iran . " But his failure to win the Iran-Iraq War led to the 1990 invasion of Kuwait , as Saddam " did n't have enough oil revenue " . <p> US bases in Saudi during the First Gulf War helped fuel Osama bin Laden 's hatred of the West . The huge increases in oil prices also " led the Soviet Union to invade Afghanistan . Why ? Petro-mania <p> -- this delusional belief that politics has no limits when all this money is gushing in . It led the politburo to abandon its hesitancy " . <p> Afghanistan was then under communist rule and Moscow had been effectively " stealing " the country 's " natural gas for decades " . It looked like the Afghan communist puppet regime was about to topple , which would mean the gas tap getting turned off . So " at a time of peak energy prices , the Soviets invaded " . <p> Bin Laden fought against the Soviets . America armed the Afghan resistance which became the Taliban . " Without the invasion , there 's no Taliban . That 's an indisputable fact . " Events in Afghanistan , in the wake of the 1973 oil crisis , would then eventually lead to the September 11 attacks . Hansen adds : " No Taliban , no al-Qaeda , no Isis . " <p> You can see why Hansen called his book War , Work and Want : " Want refers to our insatiable desire for ever-cheaper products , which supports a continued decimation of working-class wages and dependence on cheap labour . Migrants come for work . Oil creates wars , wars create refugees , and refugees become workers . " <p> The West makes policies which see " refugees drown in the Mediterranean , but when they reach our countries , they build our houses and deliver our food . This is the world we 're living in . The Western economy is structurally dependent on cheap migrant labour " . <p> Refugees <p> GOVERNMENTS across the West " demonise " refugees , yet maintain economic and foreign policies which create more refugees , and suppress domestic wages . It 's not only illogical , but a recipe for disaster . <p> There are chilling echoes of the 1973 oil crisis today . Following the invasion of Ukraine -- very similar to the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan , Hansen feels -- Putin " used oil as a weapon in the same way Gulf States did . He wants to use oil to reorder the political system by establishing energy-based relations with countries like India , Iran and China so he can create a new challenge to the West " . <p> Another ripple from the 1973 Opec crisis was the fall of communism . No fall of communism , no Putin . The 1973 crisis , as we 've just seen , played a role in the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan . However , the Soviet defeat in Afghanistan in turn helped bring about the fall of the communist regime . <p> The oil crisis also fuelled the rise of " political Islam " -- another cause of tension and hate in the 21st century . Political Islam was " not inevitable " . <p> After all , in the early 1970s , America " complained the Arabs were too secular and socialist " . <p> However , Egypt and Syria " turned to neoliberalism in response to the economic oil crisis " . Inequality grew and in turn so did extremism , which Saudi money helped fund . This all greatly undermined any chance of peace with Israel . " There 's an oil dimension to post-1990s terrorism , " Hansen adds . <p> A broken working class , poverty and inequality , mass migration , ethnic and religious tensions , terrorism , distrust of centrist politicians , policies which keep rewarding the rich and hurting the poor <p> -- it 's not hard to see why Donald Trump got another shot at power . Yet with Trump in the White House , there 's real fear that Russia will come out on top in the Ukraine war , the far right will dominate Europe , and democracy itself could start to teeter across the West . <p> Donald Trump <p> Hansen is aware that matters feel " apocalyptic " -- and it all flows from those events in 1973 and the wrong policies enacted by Western governments to counter the shock . The rise of far-right populism has also put the rights of women and some minorities , like trans people , on the line . <p> We now have a situation where some of the most dangerous characters in public life have been empowered . " We did this in two ways , " Hansen says : by the right destroying the working class , and the left neglecting that destroyed working class . " It allowed appalling figures like Boris Johnson to speak for the ' left behind ' . " <p> Unless parties of the centre find a way to appeal again to working-class voters , we could see Europe become a place " where I suspect some would not want to live " . <p> China , Hansen notes , has risen thanks to the 1973 oil crisis , and the outsourcing of jobs and production . Giant corporations like Walmart in America " busted unions and then shifted buying from American companies to China . In response to Walmart 's pursuit of ever-lower prices and its monopoly power , wages were squeezed even further " . <p> Evidently , the unregulated behaviour of corporations has ramped up the climate crisis . And the climate crisis in turn creates migrants from the Global South . Their arrival in the West feeds populism . You can see how the feedback loop seems intractably difficult to break . <p> There was a moment , at least for Britain , when this all could have been stopped . " If the Winter of Discontent had n't happened , if the unions , frankly , had behaved more responsibly , and not turned on a government that had been fairly friendly to them , and Labour had won , we would be in a different world . <p> " Some of these changes would have happened -- look at France and Germany -- but the ideological glee with which the working class was destroyed , the extremism , that would n't have happened . " <p> Blowback <p> IT 'S a case of the ultimate blowback . " Populism is a blowback , the refugee crisis is a blowback , wars and terrorism were blowbacks . " <p> So , can we reverse the car before it goes off the cliff , before the blowback gets worse ? Economist Colin Mayer , that Oxford University professor who is an expert in corporate finance and governance , believes we can -- but only if we completely reimagine capitalism . <p> Capitalism is , says Mayer , " the most powerful engine we 've ever invented " . Capitalism , if handled properly , can grow prosperity , lead to innovation , and alleviate poverty , he adds . But in its current form -- the model that came into existence after the 1973 oil crisis -- it 's causing " inequality , social exclusion , mistrust , and environmental degradation " . <p> Capitalism is now associated with multiple " crises " , Mayer says . <p> " We 've had the dot-com bubble burst , the financial crisis , the energy crisis , the food crisis , and inflation . " The underlying cause is how we 've come to define " profit " . We 're misconceiving " the notion of profit " , Mayer says . <p> If you get profit just right , like Goldilocks with her porridge , then society benefits -- wages grow , solutions are found to problems by entrepreneurs and innovators , lives improve . But the system we have now -- of rapacious pursuit of profit as an end in itself -- " is associated with neither advancement or progress " . <p> " We currently measure profit simply as the difference between the revenue and income that a company earns and its costs in terms of wages , supply costs and capital costs . But that 's not actual profit . <p> " It does n't take account of the costs that a company imposes in terms of paying employees below the living wages , paying suppliers below a fair trade price , polluting the environment , destroying species , or contributing to global warming . <p> " In particular , companies are n't incurring the costs of either avoiding imposing those detriments or , if they do cause them , in cleaning up the mess they create . So the costs that companies report are n't true costs , they are n't what I term a ' just profit ' . When directors declare financial statements as a true and fair representation of their position , it 's no such thing -- it 's neither true or fair . " <p> To arrest the multiple crises stemming from unfettered capitalism , governments need to " ensure that companies incur the true costs associated with their activities " . In other words , pay people fairly , take responsibility for the community your company operates within , and clean up the messes you make . Act like an adult , not a rampaging child . <p> Changing capitalism sounds an impossible task , but Mayer believes it 's not that difficult . For instance , take the 2006 Companies Act . It states that " directors should act in a way that they consider most likely to promote the success of the company for the benefits of its members -- that 's to say , its shareholders . That notion lies at the heart of company law around the world " . <p> Profit <p> IN other words , the role of the company is to maximise financial profit for shareholders . It has no other responsibility , certainly not to " do the right thing " . <p> Mayer is n't against profit -- it 's needed , otherwise there are no businesses or jobs . " But the law should in turn ensure that there 's a duty of care that directors have to other parties , and in particular to parties that the company impacts on and affects -- that includes employees , suppliers , communities , the environment . " <p> A " duty of care " needs to be forced onto companies . Indeed , we need to reimagine the purpose of the corporation . Profit alone is n't enough as a raison d ' ? tre . Companies " should help to solve the problems we face as individuals , societies and the world , and in the process derive a profit from that . Companies should not profit from producing detriments to others . They should incur the costs of avoiding or cleaning up the mess " . <p> What he 's advocating is a form of " caring capitalism " . And you can see how it applies to some of the troubles which flowed from the 1973 Opec crisis , such as suppressed wages . <p> Shareholders have " many privileges " , Mayer says , including " the right to the earnings of their company , but they have obligations and responsibilities as well " . <p> Anyone who thinks Mayer is anti-capitalist better think again . He 's a champion of the founding father of modern capitalism , Scotland 's Adam Smith . Mayer says that the thoughts contained in Smith 's The Wealth Of Nations are " very well known -- the notion that it 's not from the benevolence of the butcher , the brewer or the baker that we expect our dinner , but from their regard for their own self-interest " . <p> However , " we tend to ignore or forget " what Smith said in his other great work The Theory Of Moral Sentiments , " in which he provides the conceptual underpinning that 's required to ensure that markets actually deliver the benefits that we 're looking for from the butcher , brewer and baker " . <p> The underpinning of this " moral law " is that business should " not profit from imposing detriments on others " . It 's effectively " the Golden Rule " . Most world religions have some form of the Golden Rule , which we know best as " do as thy would be done to " . Mayer wants capitalism to find its moral conscience . <p> If we could re-engineer capitalism around this notion , we 'd create an ethical business world which turns a profit by " helping others and solving problems " . Instead , we have a model which earns profit by often " creating problems " . <p> Shareholders <p> MAYER dismisses any question of this being " touchy-feely " . A " duty of care " is n't some soppy concept but an important principle in many of our laws . " I 'm suggesting a duty of care be a central component in the fiduciary duties of directors . To date , their dominant consideration has been in relation to the interests of shareholders . " <p> Nor can it be argued that there 's no precedent , or that capitalism can never be tweaked and reprogrammed . The New Deal in America , and the Welfare State in Britain , were both major changes towards a caring form of capitalism . <p> We also have , and have had , corporations which operate ethically . Britain 's Wellcome Trust -- today one of the largest funders of scientific research <p> -- grew out of the profits of the Wellcome family . " It 's an extremely successful example of a company creating profit and becoming one of the most valuable foundations in the world . " <p> The " enterprise foundation " model -- where highly profitable businesses are owned by foundations like Wellcome -- is particularly successful in Denmark , Mayer says . About " 50% of the stock-market value of Danish companies is attributable to enterprise foundations " . He adds that Denmark also " happens to be the country with one of the highest incomes per capita , lowest levels of inequality , best employee relations , and one of the happiest countries in the world " . <p> Novo Nordisk , the Danish pharmaceutical company which produces insulin , is " the most valuable company by stock-market value of any in Europe " . <p> It is owned by the Novo Nordisk Foundation . In 2023 , the company 's market capitalisation exceeded the GDP of Denmark 's domestic economy . <p> And it 's not like bosses do n't get rich under this more ethical system . In 2024 , chief executive Lars Fruergaard J ? rgensen pocketed around $10 million . So there 's plenty of profit to go around . Communism it ai n't . <p> Mayer adds that underpinning the success of such companies " is a corporate law called enterprise foundation law which ensures that foundations do n't exploit the privileges they 've got , and the companies they own sustain the purpose that the founders had in perpetuity " . <p> He adds : " It 's created extremely valuable companies that have created an immense amount of social and environmental benefit at the same time as creating a lot of financial benefit . " <p> This illustrates , he says , that proposals to overhaul capitalism in nations like Britain and America " is n't just academic dreaming " . <p> Indeed , Mayer says that he and those like him are creating ready-made solutions for politicians to enact . <p> " We 're getting exactly what one would predict from having a malfunctioning capitalist system -- more and bigger crises around the world . That will go on happening . You can be absolutely sure that the combination of artificial intelligence and genetic engineering will create crises bigger than we can conceive of at the moment . <p> " We 're also getting the pushback one would expect in terms of people rejecting the political system , the democratic system , and creating polarised societies . This is what you 'd expect if you try to solve the problem the wrong way . " <p> Reform <p> INSTEAD of reforming the system , many governments have and are pushing for less regulation , which will only exacerbate the failings in capitalism . The problems we see are n't " external " to capitalism -- such as an issue like regulation . " That 's absolutely wrong . It 's internal to this engine of capitalism . Until we recognise that and correct that , we 'll go on creating failed solutions and increasingly polarised societies . " <p> Mayer believes that voters from both left and right would unite around the idea of preventing corporations profiting at the expense of others . His work , he says , " provides a political agenda for whatever party is willing to pick it up and run with it " , adding : " It 's not a complex solution , it 's very straightforward in terms of company law . There should be a recognition that companies can not profit at the expense of others . <p> " That 's not a revolution . That 's not the destruction of capitalism . That 's getting it sorted in a way we can all come together around " . <p> However , will politicians listen ? Will it take some disaster , like the system breaking , before there 's the will to fix it ? " That 's an absolutely justifiable fear , " Mayer says , " and it 's precisely what I 'm concerned about . How many more crises do we go through before people recognise what needs to be done ? " <p> It is not , he says " too nihilistic " to fear economic collapse or political revolution being required as the catalyst for change . That 's because " the direction of travel that we 've been going on over the last 60 years has been very much to reinforce the problems -- namely , we 've intensified the focus on profit at the expense of others " . <p> He notes that in 1962 , the American economist Milton Friedman -- seen as the ideological guru of neoliberalism <p> -- said that " there is one and only one social purpose of business : to use its resources and engage in activities designed to increase its profits " . <p> That 's where it all started going " wrong " , he feels . This became the ideology of Thatcher and Reagan . " What preceded this was a very different notion -- that business was there to perform a social function . <p> " That has been increasingly destroyed and it 's created increasing inequality . <p> " It has come at the expense of left-behind places and left-behind people , and at the expense of nature and the environment . That 's creating the increasing scale and frequency of crises , and that 's why we 're in the position we are today . " <p> Given this ideological shift to more rapacious capitalism only happened within the span of a lifetime , there 's no reason why we ca n't " shift back " , says Mayer , " if people really understand what the underlying problem is " . <p> Hope <p> HOWEVER , change through terrible upheaval " may well be the only way , but it does n't have to be . The history of the world has seen transitions where there has been smooth movement from depression and crisis to reforms taking place " . <p> The Renaissance , for instance , ushered in a more civilised era simply through the power of ideas . <p> That 's why it 's so important , he feels , for ordinary citizens to get a grasp of what 's gone wrong and the possible solutions . <p> There 's a glimmer of hope in Scotland . Mayer co-chaired the Scottish Business Purpose Commission which looked at how companies can do more when it comes to " climate change , environmental sustainability , inequality and fair work " . <p> Mayer says he " was impressed by the support for creating shared prosperity around a common purpose of solving problems in a profitable fashion for others " . <p> He adds : " It 's a good illustration of how Britain as a whole may not be inclined to go in this direction in the immediate future , but there 's absolutely nothing to stop Scotland from advancing this agenda . It wo n't be able to reform UK company law , but it can in essence adopt the policies associated with what 's needed within the context of the UK . " <p> " People who are perfectly good , loving members of their families and communities , when they get put into a company or financial institution , they find themselves in an environment which brings out the most inhumane parts of their behaviour . <p> " They 're just there to generate money for the business , not to express care and concern for others . <p> " That 's what I 'm driving at -- how do we ensure that institutions support our humanity and not undermine it . " <p> Here 's the kicker . The system we 've created is n't even any good for business . It only serves the richest . " Britain is a poorly performing country , " says Mayer , " in terms of its productivity record and its growth . " <p> There is no trickle down , no cascade of wealth from top to bottom . We 're a deeply unequal society . " We 're not building successful businesses , " Mayer adds . <p> " We 're lousy at scaling them up and creating real international champions . " <p> In the past , we were world-beaters in electronics and chemicals . Not any more . " The reason why is this emphasis on the wrong model of business -- simply creating the greatest return for the shareholder base , rather than investing in business , and creating businesses that have a long-term stable growth potential . " <p> In fact , we have the lowest investment rate of any OECD country " by a significant level . We 're simply not investing for the future " . <p> Says Mayer : " Britain is an illustration of how the traditional capitalist model we 've promoted is a source not of economic success , but economic failure . Rethinking business is n't only critical in terms of avoiding armageddon , but also creating successful companies , flourishing economies and prosperity <h> Why are you making commenting on The Herald only available to subscribers ? <p> It should have been a safe space for informed debate , somewhere for readers to discuss issues around the biggest stories of the day , but all too often the below the line comments on most websites have become bogged down by off-topic discussions and abuse . <p> heraldscotland.com is tackling this problem by allowing only subscribers to comment . <p> We are doing this to improve the experience for our loyal readers and we believe it will reduce the ability of trolls and troublemakers , who occasionally find their way onto our site , to abuse our journalists and readers . We also hope it will help the comments section fulfil its promise as a part of Scotland 's conversation with itself . <p> We are lucky at The Herald . We are read by an informed , educated readership who can add their knowledge and insights to our stories . <p> That is invaluable . <p> We are making the subscriber-only change to support our valued readers , who tell us they do n't want the site cluttered up with irrelevant comments , untruths and abuse . <p> In the past , the journalist 's job was to collect and distribute information to the audience . Technology means that readers can shape a discussion . We look forward to hearing from you on heraldscotland.com <h> Comments &amp; Moderation <p> Readers ' comments : You are personally liable for the content of any comments you upload to this website , so please act responsibly . We do not pre-moderate or monitor readers ' comments appearing on our websites , but we do post-moderate in response to complaints we receive or otherwise when a potential problem comes to our attention . You can make a complaint by using the ' report this post ' link . We may then apply our discretion under the user terms to amend or delete comments . <p> Post moderation is undertaken full-time 9am-6pm on weekdays , and on a part-time basis outwith those hours . <h> follow us <p> This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation 's Editors ' Code of Practice . If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then please contact the editor here . If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact IPSO here
