<p> Trump has insisted that he will declare a national emergency and utilize the military to conduct the mass deportations , a proposed effort that has faced criticism from both Democrats and some Republicans . <p> " Let the federal government do the federal government 's job , but have state and local officials do the state and local officials ' job , " Padilla added . " There does n't have to be a conflict unless that 's what Trump wants . " <p> A law from 2017 , California Senate Bill 54 , prohibits the use of state and local resources to aid the federal government in immigration enforcement , Politico noted . Tom Homan , Trump 's appointed border czar , has said that local law enforcement who do n't work with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents to conduct deportations would be prosecuted . <p> Sen. Alex Padilla ( D-CA ) arrives for a vote at the U.S. Capitol in Washington , D.C. , earlier this year . He has said that California will not help the incoming Trump administration with its immigration plans ( Getty Images ) <p> " Some states like Texas want to push the envelope and try to find a way to assist , but there 's no obligation to do so , " Padilla noted . <p> Republican Texas Gov . Greg Abbott has said that if the federal government does n't do its job in protecting the border , the state has the right to step in , such as by installing razor wire on its border with Mexico . <p> California will not " utilize state and local resources to do the federal government 's job for them , " Padilla vowed Sunday . <p> The state 's Assembly Speaker Robert Rivas has said that he will " ensure that people feel protected and they feel welcomed . " <p> Meanwhile , Governor Gavin Newsom has indicated that his state will resist the new Trump administration . <p> " California is the most populous state in the nation , the most diverse state in the nation , home to more immigrants than any state in the nation , " Padilla told CBS . " The last thing you want to do is have immigrants who are victims of crime afraid to come forward to report the crime . The last thing you want is immigrants who may be witnesses to crime be afraid to come forward and share any information they have in the investigation and prosecution of crimes . " <p> The senator also shared his worries about Trump 's relationship with California more generally . <p> " If the federal government will continue to support California in its leadership and so many policy areas , there 's a lot of good work to be done there . But Donald Trump has made it no secret he has it in for California , " Padilla said in reference to FEMA funds that Trump " tried to keep from not the government of California but from California families simply because it 's a state that did not vote for him in the presidential election . " <p> " We 're trying to inoculate ourselves from those types of threats , " Padilla said on Face the Nation . <p> Secretary of State Antony Blinken is heading back to Europe on Monday for what will likely be the last high-level NATO meeting before the Biden administration leaves office next month . Shoring up allied support for Ukraine ahead of President-elect Donald Trump ' s return to the White House in January will top the agenda at NATO foreign ministers meetings in Brussels on Tuesday and Wednesday , according to the State Department . Blinken will " discuss priorities for transatlantic security , including supporting Ukraine 's fight against Russia 's invasion , deepening cooperation with NATO 's southern partners in the Middle East , North Africa , and Sahel regions , and preparing for the upcoming summit at The Hague , " the department said in a statement . <p> Ukraine needs more weapons and stronger diplomatic backing to reach a " just peace " with Russia , President Volodymyr Zelensky argued Monday as German Chancellor Olaf Scholz visited Kyiv.The German chancellor vowed on Monday to prevent Russia from dictating the terms of peace , seeking to alleviate fears that US President-elect Donald Trump may soon force Ukraine to accept a deal favourable to Moscow . <p> US President-elect Donald Trump on Monday warned Gaza militants of massive repercussions if hostages are not released by the time he takes office . " If the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " Trump wrote on his Truth Social platform . <p> US lawmakers concluded a two-year investigation Monday into the Covid-19 outbreak that killed 1.1 million Americans -- backing the theory that the virus likely leaked from a Chinese laboratory.The congressional panel was persuaded by the lab leak theory after meeting 25 times , conducting more than 30 transcribed interviews and reviewing more than one million pages of documents . <p> Ukraine must be placed in the " strongest possible position for negotiations " to end the war with Russia , Sir Keir Starmer has said . The Prime Minister insisted the UK will back Ukraine " for as long as it takes " as he made a speech at the Lord Mayor 's Banquet in London , but for the first time acknowledged the conflict could move towards a negotiated end . <p> The House Select Subcommittee on the Coronavirus Pandemic released its final report Monday , laying out numerous conclusions from its review of the federal pandemic response , including what the Republican-controlled panel believes to be the likely origins of the virus . The 520-page document encompassed a wide range of issues relating to the pandemic including vaccinations , public ...
