<h> Centre-right Fianna F ? il and Fine Gael set to retain power in Ireland <p> Miche ? l Martin , the leader of Fianna F ? il , celebrates after being elected . The party is on course to being the largest in the D ? il.Photograph : Damien Eagers/Reuters <p> The two main centre-right parties in Ireland are expected to start talks on returning to government as the general election put the incumbents within touching distance of forming the 34th D ? il . <p> With all Teachta D ? la ( TD ) seats filled by 10pm on Monday evening , Fianna F ? il -- led by Miche ? l Martin -- and Fine Gael -- led by the taoiseach , Simon Harris -- won 86 seats , just two shy of the 88 needed for a majority . <p> Sinn F ? in were slightly ahead of Harris 's party with 39 TDs and had opened talks with the Social Democrats and Labour , both taking 11 seats each . However , with Fianna F ? il ( 48 TDs ) and Fine Gael ( 38 ) ruling out a coalition with the leftist national party , a left-leaning alliance is unlikely to materialise . <p> With Fianna F ? il now 10 seats ahead of Fine Gael , Harris 's position as taoiseach is likely to come under pressure . <p> If it is to be a direct reprise of the Fianna F ? il-Fine Gael governing partnership of the last mandate , one of the major questions is whether the parties continue their policy of rotating taoiseach , or prime minister . The previous coalition struck a historic agreement to have first Martin and then Leo Varadkar , the then leader of Fine Gael , followed by Harris , serve as taoiseach . <p> Fianna F ? il 's deputy leader , Jack Chambers , said on Monday talks could last for weeks but not the near-five months it took for their coalition with Fine Gael to crystallise last time . <p> " I do n't expect the government to be formed in mid-December , " he told RT ? , adding that time was needed to discuss negotiations within the party and the space to form " a coherent , stable " arrangement . <p> The Sinn F ? in leader , Mary Lou McDonald , has already reached out to the Social Democrats and Labour . <p> Eoin ? Broin , one of the most senior members of the party , said the party would meet on Wednesday where it would " assess " where it would " take things at that stage " . Other party members have said they will try to form a leftist block and make it as " difficult as possible " for another term for Fine Gael , which has been in power since 2011 . <p> The pivotal decision for Fianna F ? il and Fine Gael centres on whether the two parties team up like-minded independent candidates to form the next government or whether they rely on the support of either of the smaller left-leaning parties , the Social Democrats or Labour . <p> Agreeing a programme for government after a campaign that involved big spending promises will involve much horse-trading but all parties are agreed they must deliver on housing and homelessness , the number one priority of the electorate , according to Friday night 's exit poll . <p> Chambers said his party would seek to prioritise its promises . " This is n't about positions or posturing or general groupings . It 's about how we can deliver for the Irish people , " he told RT ? . <p> The government 's previous partner , the Greens , were virtually annihilated in the election with its leader , Roderic O'Gorman , the sole remaining TD of 12 . After scraping in on the 13th count in Dublin West constituency on Sunday night he said he did not think he had a mandate to return to government . <p> The two establishment parties have already ruled out working with Sinn F ? in , which is expected to finish with a similar number of seats as Fine Gael but not enough to lead a stable left-leaning government . <p> Labour and the Social Democrats have both said they would talk to Fianna F ? il and Fine Gael but would first take stock of the position of parties on the left . <p> Ivana Bacik , the Labour leader , described her party 's results as " formidable " given only four sitting TDs had sought re-election . <p> She told RT ? she would not consider " going it alone " into a coalition with the two big parties and they wanted to assess the position of the " TDs who share our vision and our values who want to deliver change " including delivering housing , public services , healthcare , childcare and disability services . <p> " We are serious about delivering change and that 's why we have talked about forging a common platform , " she said . The first people she would talk to are the Social Democrats and O'Gorman , she said . <p> The Social Democrats have also said they are prepared to talk to the established parties but have five red lines , including the demand for a disability minister . <p> Subsequent results showed the party with a 19% share . While it will remain the single biggest opposition party , it represents a significant fall on four years ago . <h> Latest stories <p> US lawmakers concluded a two-year investigation Monday into the Covid-19 outbreak that killed 1.1 million Americans -- backing the theory that the virus likely leaked from a Chinese laboratory.The congressional panel was persuaded by the lab leak theory after meeting 25 times , conducting more than 30 transcribed interviews and reviewing more than one million pages of documents . <p> Forecasters are predicting a widespread frost across the UK , with the potential for -10C ( 14F ) in some places . Most areas will turn dry on Monday evening and , as skies clear , temperatures are set to plummet overnight . " Rural areas , mainly in Scotland , could dip as low as -10C ( 14F ) , while -6C ( 21F ) is possible in parts of Northern Ireland and north Wales , " said Sky News weather producer Chris England . <p> First preference vote shares in Ireland 's election suggest Fianna Fail and Fine Gael are poised to continue their coalition , with Sinn Fein recording its first decline in support in 35 years . Fianna Fail 's leader hailed his party 's performance but said he would let the " dust settle " before attempting to form a new government . Following two days of counting , and with more than 100 of the 174 seats decided by Sunday evening , the return of an administration in which Fianna Fail and Fine Gael took the major role looks most likely . <p> Ireland faces weeks of coalition talks before it gets a new government , as the country 's two major center-right parties work to form a stable administration . With all 174 legislative seats filled Monday after three days of counting election ballots , Fianna Fail had won 48 seats and Fine Gael 38 . " The people have spoken , let us now get on with the work , " said Fianna Fail leader Miche ? l Martin . <p> The results of the election mean Ireland has partly bucked the global trend of incumbents being rejected by disgruntled voters after years of pandemic measures , international instability and cost-of-living pressures.View on euronews <p> Ireland 's general election concluded late-Monday after three days of vote-counting , with the incumbent centre-right parties Fianna Fail and Fine Gael set to retain power following coalition expected to take place in coming weeks.With all 174 seats in the lower chamber of parliament decided since Friday 's vote , Fianna Fail , on 48 seats , was well ahead of the main opposition , the left-wing nationalist Sinn Fein on 39 , with Fine Gael in third on 38 . <p> President-elect Donald Trump is demanding the immediate release of Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza , saying that if they are not freed before he is sworn into office for a second term there will be " HELL TO PAY . " " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " Trump wrote in a post on his Truth Social site . It was not immediately clear whether Trump was threatening to directly involve the U.S. military in Israel 's ongoing campaign against Hamas in Gaza .
