<h> Sign up to The JC newsletter <p> The truest test will be when the residents of the north feel confident in returning and rebuilding their homes <p> Israeli security forces inspect the vicinity of a damaged house in Rinatya village in central Israel at a site hit by rockets fired by Hezbollah from Lebanon on November 24 ( Getty Images ) <p> December 02 , 2024 14:50 <p> Around a year ago I stood just outside Moshav Avivim , looking into Maroun El Ras . I could see ( with binoculars ) the large cardboard cutout of former IRGC Commander Qasem Soleimani ominously pointing south . The Soleimani prop , alongside a model of Jerusalem 's Dome of the Rock , was part of the Iranian Park built by Hezbollah in tribute to the former Iranian military commander who devised the doctrine of surrounding Israel with brutal proxy armies . The park was set up after he was killed by the US military , at the end of President Trump 's first term in January 2020 . <p> What I could not have seen that day was the vast underground network and military infrastructure embedded in villages just like Maroun EL Ras , across the length of the shared border . These underground fortresses that stood ready to facilitate their plan to invade the Galilee have now been destroyed . What seemed unimaginable a year ago as we approach the second Trump administration is now real : Nasrallah and so many of the senior Hezbollah commanders are now reunited with Soleimani . <p> Unlike the Gaza front that caught everyone by surprise , the IDF had well prepared plans to decapitate Hezbollah and they appear to have been implemented with a high level of competence and sophistication . As well as removing the infrastructure in the immediate vicinity of the border and killing the high command , the IDF were successful in removing at least 70 per cent of the missile array held by Hezbollah a year ago . Weapons storage and manufacturing , too , have been set back decades . Hezbollah has been severely decimated - but not completely vanquished . Nevertheless , here are 10 reasons why a ceasefire was the right decision . <p> ? <p> 1 In today 's world there are seldom knockout victories , so it is best to convert military gains to political dividends when the operational criteria have been met . In this case the objective was the conquest of those immediate villages like Maroun El Ras that have direct site into Israel . <p> ? <p> 2 Both Hezbollah 's and Iran 's interests were served keeping Israel in a perpetual state of low intensity conflict ( LIC , that characterised the first 10 months of the war , prior to ' operation beeper ' and the land incursion ) . From their perspective LIC drains Israel militarily , socially , economically and diplomatically . <p> ? <p> 3 On the Israeli side it was widely popular to give the forces a breather . Both the standing army and the overburdened reservists are well overdue a break . Israel was not built for long wars and the fatigue , economic and societal cost weigh heavy on the public . <p> ? <p> 4 Israel scored two valuable diplomatic assets from the Biden administration and credit is due to the outgoing president as well as his tenacious envoy , Amos Hochstein . The first was inserting the US full-on into the future arbitration mechanism , whereas in the 17 years since 2006 it was the UN that criminally failed to hold Hezbollah to account for their blatant violations . <p> ? <p> 5 The second key achievement is the side-agreement between Israel and the US over ' imminent threats ' that can be dealt with at the sole discretion of the IDF ( with longer term threats referred to the US led monitoring committee ) . <p> ? <p> 6 As Prime Minister Netanyahu said in his announcement of the deal , the first benefit of a ceasefire in Lebanon is allowing the military to focus on the Iranian threat . <p> ? <p> 7 In the same address he offered an unsubtle criticism of the Biden administration : " It is no secret that there have been big delays in weapons and munitions deliveries . " If this is the case it makes sense to avoid any gaps in capability and , mindful of the other fronts , it was a good time to press pause . <p> ? <p> 8 Netanyahu alluded to the next president being more amenable to supplying all the weapons Israel wants . We will see . Either way , this agreement was coordinated with and approved by the Trump team . President-elect Trump has made it clear he prefers deals to wars . <p> ? <p> 9 The deal breaks the connectivity , separates the fronts and isolates Hamas . One can only hope that the increased focus on Hamas will lead to a breakthrough and the release of the hostages . <p> 10 There is also a dividend among the wider international community . Following the outrageous decision by the ICC to issue arrest warrants , a reduction in fighting is a favourable optic . It should be positively noted that even though the Starmer government withdrew its defence of Netanyahu and Gallant , nevertheless last week the British Army still hosted the IDF Chief of Staff for meetings alongside other NATO chiefs in the UK . <p> Despite all this , the deal faced criticism from opposition politicians and local heads of the northern communities . They argued this was a surrender agreement , just at the time Israel should be pushing on , as the circumstances presented the opportunity for even more military accomplishments . Another critique is that once the IDF redeploys out of the southern Lebanese villages , their residents will be allowed to return . Many of the critics had hoped for a type of buffer zone or demilitarised area on the Lebanese side ( similar to Kissinger 's plan on the Syrian front that has held since 1974 ) . Another cause for concern that we have already seen in the first few days is that Hezbollah is testing the agreement on the ground . There is speculation that there may be days of renewed fighting ahead , particularly in this adjustment period and while the IDF remain deployed inside southern Lebanon till towards the end of January . <p> Ultimately , the truest test will be when the residents of the north feel confident in returning and rebuilding their homes . In some places that is already happening . The objective must be the complete rehabilitation of the northern communities so devastated by over a year of sustained attacks . This will take time .
