<p> Pro-Palestinian protesters disrupted graduations today ( 30/11 ) , following the re-occupation of the Senate House lawn earlier this week . <p> Around 50 people , including members of Cambridge for Palestine ( C4P ) alongside other student and union groups , staged a protest on King 's Parade as graduands lined up across the street to graduate at Great St Mary 's Church . <p> Graduations had been scheduled to take place in Senate House this morning , but were moved after pro-Palestinian protesters re-occupied the lawn on Wednesday morning . <p> The move was made " to minimise the risk of disruption , " according to an email seen by Varsity , but graduands said the protest could still be heard inside the church . <p> When asked whether the graduation was disrupted , one graduate stated , " of course it was , you could definitely hear it " . Another told Varsity they could hear the drums from inside , but did not express frustration about the protest . " I do n't care at all , I would normally be around here if I was n't graduating " , he said , pointing to the students on King 's Parade . <p> Parents watching their children graduate also stated their ambivalence over the disruption . One stated : " We 're sympathetic to both causes , we think students should be able to graduate but we also support Gaza " . <p> One protester stated that : " Our problem is not with the students , it 's with the University " , accusing Cambridge of being " complicit in the genocide " . They congratulated students at the encampment on Senate House lawn for their " valiant actions , " and condemned the University for having " negotiated in bad faith " . <p> Earlier this month , C4P claimed the University had " stalled " in its commitments to students , " erased " Palestine from its review of arms ties , and " weaponised bureaucracy to reduce student power " . They accused Cambridge of " breaking " the agreement which led to the dismantling of the encampment in Easter term . <p> This came shortly after Varsityrevealed that Trinity had backtracked on its commitment to divest from arms . Despite promises made last term , the Master of Trinity , Dame Sally Davies , told students the College had " no interest in divesting from arms companies " . <p> " Now is the time to keep going , " students said this morning . " We will not stop . How many more Rwandas , Bosnias , Holocausts , will we sit by and watch ? " they asked . <p> A healthcare worker at the University 's hospital trust stated that Cambridge 's actions go " beyond complicity " , and that it is " actively taking part " . He added , referring to the University , " this institution needs to crumble and be rebuilt again " . <p> One student , who was scheduled to graduate today , told Varsity they could " attest to general feelings of utter devastation and pain , especially among working-class home and international students who 've paid significant amounts of money to get here " . <p> " My working class American family spent every single extra dime they had to come over here for graduation , just to have it ripped away , " they explained . They stated that this is " because the uni is choosing not to remove the protesters , or negotiate " . <p> Cambridge for Palestine and the University of Cambridge were contacted for comment . <p> Support Varsity <p> Varsity is the independent newspaper for the University of Cambridge , established in its current form in 1947 . In order to maintain our editorial independence , our print newspaper and news website receives no funding from the University of Cambridge or its constituent Colleges . <p> We are therefore almost entirely reliant on advertising for funding and we expect to have a tough few months and years ahead . <p> In spite of this situation , we are going to look at inventive ways to look at serving our readership with digital content and of course in print too ! <p> Therefore we are asking our readers , if they wish , to make a donation from as little as ? 1 , to help with our running costs . Many thanks , we hope you can help !
