<h> Follow us <h> By granting immunity to Netanyahu , France is fuelling the genocide <p> French diplomacy is ignoring its obligations under international law in return for an illusory regional influence <p> A man holds a placard reading in French ' Gaza bombarded , but Paris ( Macron ) supports the occupier ' at a rally in Paris , on 5 October 2024 ( AFP ) <p> In a statement published on 27 November , the French foreign affairs ministry claimed that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu " and the other ministers concerned " ( ie Yoav Gallant , his former defence minister ) , targeted by an international arrest warrant issued by the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) , benefit from immunities granted to states not party to the Rome Statute , which created the court . <p> France would take these immunities " into account should the ICC request of us their arrest and surrender " , the statement said . <p> In other words , if given the opportunity , France would not arrest or hand over to international justice Israeli leaders accused of war crimes and crimes against humanity . <p> It is an understatement to say that France greeted the issuance of the arrest warrants against Netanyahu and Gallant without enthusiasm , merely " taking note " of the decision last week , while insisting on the fact ( technically correct ) that " this is not a ruling but the formalisation of an indictment " . <p> But until 27 November , it had not mentioned any immunity . <h> New MEE newsletter : Jerusalem Dispatch <h> Sign up to get the latest insights and analysis on Israel-Palestine , alongside Turkey Unpacked and other MEE newsletters <p> Although EU outgoing foreign policy chief Josep Borrell emphasised that compliance with ICC rulings was mandatory for EU member states and G7 foreign ministers announced they would " comply with their respective obligations " , most western states seem rather embarrassed - if not downright hostile , like the United States or Hungary - at the idea of ? ? having to surrender an Israeli leader to the ICC . <h> Yielding to Netanyahu 's blackmail <p> France has attempted to resolve this tension between adherence in principle to the ICC and support for Israel - and to shirk its obligations - through perilous legal acrobatics , consisting of asserting that since Israel is not a party to the Rome Statute , its leaders benefit from immunity . <p> However , officials of all ranks , including a head of state or government , under an ICC arrest warrant are not entitled to immunity , even if they belong to a non-state party to the Rome Statute , such as Israel . <p> France had no such qualms when the ICC issued an arrest warrant for Russian President Vladimir Putin in March 2023 . There was no mention of any immunity . <p> " Anyone responsible for a war crime or crime against humanity will be held accountable , regardless of their status or rank , " then Foreign Minister Catherine Colonna firmly stated . Russia had , however , withdrawn from the Rome Statute in 2016 . <p> The benefit for French diplomacy is illusory , given that the preferential treatment granted to Israel can only further erode its credibility <p> That the ministry 's statement and the opportune " discovery " of this immunity came on the very day the ceasefire in Lebanon was agreed was certainly no coincidence . <p> According to Amir Tibon , a journalist for the Israeli daily Haaretz , " the French government , according to the prime minister 's circle , agreed to publish this statement only in light of an Israeli ultimatum and a threat to otherwise leave France out of the ceasefire negotiations process and mechanism " . <p> It is , therefore , in an attempt to maintain a role in the Middle East that French diplomacy seems to have yielded to what appears as Netanyahu 's blackmail , and twisted the interpretation of the law . <p> But the benefit for French diplomacy is illusory , given that the preferential treatment granted to Israel can only further erode the credibility of states which , like France , claim to justify their international influence by invoking the promotion of an order based on law and human rights . <p> The Washington Post exhibited this double standard point blank in a recent editorial headlined : " The International Criminal Court is not the venue to hold Israel to account . The ICC is needed to help resolve war crimes in Russia , Sudan , Myanmar . " <p> How can one say more bluntly that law does not apply to everyone in the same way , depending on whether or not one is aligned with western interests ? <h> The ' democratic ' character <p> In its initial comment on the issuance of the arrest warrants , the French foreign ministry insisted that " there is no possible equivalence between Hamas , a terrorist group , and Israel , a democratic state " . <p> As if killing tens of thousands of civilians for over a year of war on Gaza , forcibly displacing more than two million people and depriving them of the minimum conditions of survival , and deliberately killing children , health workers and journalists , were all crimes absolved by the " democratic " character of the states that perpetrate them . <p> As if , on the contrary , democracies were not subject to an increased requirement of exemplarity and had , more than any other countries , to refrain from violating their own rules or be subject to the corruption of their democratic character . <p> Instead , most western countries unconditionally protect Israel , which is seen as the ultimate victim since it was the outcome of the monstrous crimes of European antisemitism . <p> In the second part of its statement , which triggered less comments but revealed the political vision underlying the French position , the ministry reiterated France 's identification with Israel , " two democracies committed to the rule of law and to respect for a professional and independent justice system " . <p> For France , the ethnic cleansing of 1948 , the systematic non-compliance with UN resolutions , the illegal occupation of Palestinian territories since 1967 , the colonisation of the West Bank and East Jerusalem , the construction of the illegal separation wall , the apartheid system and , of course , the accusations of war crimes , crimes against humanity , ethnic cleansing and genocide ... none of this calls into question Israel 's commitment to the rule of law or its democratic character . <p> Worse , Foreign Minister Jean-Noel Barrot recently told parliament that " redirecting the accusation of genocide against the government of a people who suffered it is not only a moral error but also a legal error " . <p> These remarks were described by the French Jewish Union for Peace as " negationist " since they deny the accusations , although thoroughly documented , of genocidal acts perpetrated by the Israeli army , supported by explicit calls from political leaders . <p> The Jewish anti-Zionist group also denounced Barrot 's words as " antisemitic " since by " saying that the Israeli government is the government of the Jewish ' people ' , the minister makes French Jews into foreigners in their own country ... a classic antisemitic cliche " . <h> Supporting a downward spiral <p> Wednesday 's press release further said that " France intends to continue working in close cooperation with Prime Minister Netanyahu and the other Israeli authorities to achieve peace and security for all in the Middle East " . <p> More than a guarantee of impunity to spare Netanyahu , France is thus providing its support to the prime minister 's strategic venture : dismantling by force the regional " axis of resistance " deployed by Iran and which brings together the Palestinian Hamas , Lebanese Hezbollah , the Houthis of Yemen , and several Iraqi armed groups . <p> Netanyahu alleges that its eradication would be the key to peace and security . <p> France 's U-turn on Netanyahu 's ICC immunity criticised as a ' lie ' and ' double standard ' <p> But such a prospect overlooks , on the one hand , that the objectives of the Israeli leaders are not limited to establishing a political and military order that guarantees Israel 's regional supremacy . They aim to complete the long effort of the Israeli right to eliminate the Palestinian issue and thus achieve the " Greater Eretz Israel " . <p> Driven by a messianic delirium and uninhibited racism , the national-religious far right has taken control of government action , woven its web through the state , in religious institutions and the military . It is actively preparing the annexation of the West Bank and even all or part of the Gaza strip , as well as the construction of a " Third Temple " in Jerusalem in place of the Al Aqsa Mosque . <p> This idea of peace , with which France concurs , neglects on the other hand the lasting enmities against Israel that the extreme violence inflicted for more than a year has rooted in the minds of Palestinians , Lebanese and Arabs in general , as well as the resilience capacity of the " axis of resistance " . <p> A true peace can not forgo a settlement that guarantees , in all equality , Palestinian national aspirations . However , this prospect is moving away . <p> The ethno-nationalist and authoritarian wave that is gaining ground around the world , and of which Israel , with the support of the future Trump administration , is the paroxysmal expression , has given itself the mission of destroying the liberal international order established to avoid a repetition of the horrors of the Second World War . <p> By responding to the crucial acts of international justice with such casualness in return for an illusory regional influence , French diplomacy is not helping to stop this downward spiral . <p> The views expressed in this article belong to the author and do not necessarily reflect the editorial policy of Middle East Eye . <p> Thierry Br ? sillon is an independent journalist based in Tunis since April 2011 . He previously edited a monthly publication for an international solidarity organisation and covered the conflicts in Africa and in Israel-Palestine . He tweets @ThBresillon <p> Middle East Eye delivers independent and unrivalled coverage and analysis of the Middle East , North Africa and beyond . To learn more about republishing this content and the associated fees , please fill out this form . More about MEE can be found here .
