<h> Protection deal for Amazon rainforest in peril as big business turns up heat <p> One of the cornerstones of Amazon rainforest protection -- the Soy Moratorium -- is under unprecedented pressure from Brazilian agribusiness organisations , politicians , and global trading companies , the Guardian has learned . <p> Soy is one of the most widely grown crops in Brazil , and posed a huge deforestation threat to the Amazon rainforest until stakeholders voluntarily agreed to impose a moratorium and no longer source it from the region in 2006 . <p> The voluntary agreement brought together farmers , environmentalists and international food companies such as Cargill and McDonald 's , and decided that any detection of soy planted on areas deforested after 2008 would result in the farm being blocked from supply chains , regardless of whether the land clearance was legal in Brazil . <p> In the 18 years since , the moratorium has been hailed as a conservation success story that improved the reputation of global brands , enabled soy production to expand significantly without Amazon destruction and prevented an estimated 17,000 square kilometres of deforestation . <p> But next week the main soybean body -- the Brazilian Association of Vegetable Oil Industries ( ABIOVE ) -- will ballot its members about a reform that conservation groups say would gut its effectiveness and embarrass the government of Luiz In ? cio Lula da Silva ahead of next year 's COP30 climate conference in Bel ? m . <p> The association is proposing a change in the way the moratorium is monitored . Instead of assessing an entire farm , it breaks down the analysis to the level of individual fields , which would allow growers to pick and choose which areas of their land are in compliance . <p> In a statement to the Guardian , the association said it remained in favour of the moratorium , but was planning unspecified changes : " Despite all pressures from different stakeholders , in all forums , ABIOVE and its members maintain defence of the Amazon Moratorium , striving to meet the demands of both farmers and consumers , including proposing some updates to the current model . " <p> But conservation groups warn this reform would create a huge loophole and they have threatened to withdraw from the moratorium if it goes ahead . <p> " The question this raises is why the leadership of ABIOVE is pressing ahead with this vote , when it appears to undermine the commitments of its member companies , " said David Cleary , global director for agriculture in the Nature Conservancy . ' The proposed changes to shift to a sub-farm level monitoring system make it possible for farmers to sell to moratorium companies from one part of the farm and non-moratorium companies from another . The monitoring of the moratorium has worked well since 2008 . If it is n't broken , it does n't need fixing . " <p> WWF said any move to end or weaken the soy moratorium could open up 1.1m hectares of forest for soy production and push the Amazon closer to a calamitous tipping point and emitting 300m tonnes of CO2 from deforestation . " This is not just an environmental issue but a critical economic and reputational risk for the entire Brazilian soy industry , " WWF noted in an email statement . " In addition , this could lead to an increase in land speculation , land grabbing and potential conflict in the region . " <p> Others noted the threat to the moratorium would introduce greater complexity and uncertainty into the supply chain , weakening enforcement mechanisms and making it more difficult to hold traders and producers to account . Jane Lino , deputy director of the non-profit Proforest Latin America , said this was part of a wider political agenda . " This movement is not just about the Soy Moratorium , " she said . " It reflects broader resistance to external pressures perceived as infringing on national sovereignty and disrespecting Brazil 's environmental laws . " <p> The proposals come amid moves by rightwing legislators at state and federal level to enact new laws that would also undermine the moratorium . Earlier this year , the state of Mato Grosso approved a new regulation that revoked tax incentives for companies engaged in agreements like the Soy Moratorium . Similar proposals are being put forward in other states and discussed in the national Congress . The national association of soy producers , Aprosoja , is opposed to the moratorium and is using its influence inside the powerful agribusiness lobby , which dominates domestic politics , controls Congress , influences many local governments , and frequently undermines President Lula and his environment minister Marina Silva , to diminish its influence . Brazil 's Administrative Council for Economic Defense has also been prompted to investigate producer claims that the moratorium infringes antitrust regulations . <p> Carlos Klink , a former deputy minister for the environment , emphasised that the political dynamics of Brazil had changed dramatically since the moratorium was introduced . " Look , then and now , " he said of the rise of the agribusiness lobby . " These sectors and these people have come to power . Remember also that the Brazilian government is not that strong . " <p> Part of this is a pushback against the European Union 's deforestation-free trade law , which many Brazilian farmers feel is being used to punish them and help French competitors . Most farmers , who are in compliance with the moratorium , argue they deserve compensation for going beyond the requirements of the law , and conservation groups acknowledge that most farmers are not involved in deforestation and many -- now badly affected by drought and fire -- should be given more encouragement and technical and financial support to conserve vegetation . <p> " The complaint that if you 're asking farmers to go beyond legal compliance you need to offer incentives is actually reasonable . First world governments and funders need to pay much more attention to the incentives question , " Cleary said . " A lot of Brazilian farmers are fully on board with the climate change agenda , including ending deforestation . They 're the most affected by it . But that opinion is n't reflected in the louder producer associations , who have a different political agenda . " <p> Moves to weaken the moratorium could be quashed if global traders , retailers and finance institutions publicly defended it . Some such as Bunge and Louis Dreyfus Company have been strong supporters . Others have sent mixed signals . Conservation groups are concerned that Cargill may not vote to maintain the Amazon Soy Moratorium in its current form , despite a commitment to eliminate deforestation in their Brazil supply chains by the end of 2025 . <p> Until now , the moratorium has given Brazil a reputational advantage . Many want that to remain . <p> With the Abiove vote still days away and the Mato Grosso governor yet to decide how the state 's new regulations will be applied , Klink said the outcome was not yet certain and urged all involved to focus on the progress that has been made . <p> He noted that deforestation fell dramatically in the Amazon last year , and also declined in the Cerrado savanna this year . Other state soy associations , such as that of Goias , did not agree with the Mato Grosso move , he said , and any further steps would damage the national reputation . " Ending the moratorium without anything else to replace it would not bode well for the Brazilian COP and it would create tension for civil society , and even many farmers ' associations , " he said . " I think this has a long way to go , but we have never seen this pressure . " <h> Latest stories <p> Watch live as the Christmas tree on the grounds of the US Capitol is lit in a ceremony presided by house speaker Mike Johnson in Washington DC on Tuesday , 3 December . The tree is traditionally lit by the speaker of the US House of Representatives in a tradition that stretches all the way back to 1964 when Lyndon B. Johnson was in the White House . This year is the 60th anniversary of the Christmas tree lighting ceremony . <p> Residents ' homes in Batangas , Philippines , reportedly shook after the Taal Volcano erupted on December 3 , sending a plume of ash and steam more than 9,000 feet into the air . The Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology ( PHIVOLCS ) said the phreatomagmatic explosion was only a minor event , and the volcano remains under Alert Level 1 . <p> After Ukraine 's Western allies cleared the embattled country to use long-range tactical missiles against military targets in Russia , Vladimir Putin tested a new hypersonic missile and threatened to deploy it against Kyiv . However , an image circulating online of a supposed cover of The Economist showing the Russian president and US President-elect Donald Trump facing off with the title " Apocalypse " is fake . <p> President-elect Donald Trump is demanding the immediate release of Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza , saying that if they are not freed before he is sworn into office for a second term there will be " HELL TO PAY . " " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " Trump wrote in a post on his Truth Social site . It was not immediately clear whether Trump was threatening to directly involve the U.S. military in Israel 's ongoing campaign against Hamas in Gaza .
