<h> Israel 's youngest spokesperson gives British schoolkids lessons in PR <p> Ben Carasso , the " spokeskid for Israel " , came to the UK to share his PR tips with UK children <p> Avital Zalmanovitch-Carasso remembers exactly where the family was when her son Ben , nine , said that he wanted to chronicle how life was for Israeli children since October 7 . <p> " Ben had been in a chess lesson when the sirens went off and we went into our safe room with the teacher . That 's when he said he wanted to make a video . " <p> Since then , Ben , who is from Tel Aviv , has become something of a social media sensation , attracting viewers from Israel and abroad to his English-speaking Instagram and YouTube channels , where he explains what life is like for children like him in his newfound role of " Spokeskid for Israel " . <p> His videos were spotted by Israel 's best-known spokesperson , Eylon Levy , and Ben is now Levy 's youngest recruit to his initiative , the Israeli Citizen Spokespersons ' Office . <p> During a brief break from touring Jewish schools in the UK , courtesy of the World Zionist Organisation , where Ben has been sharing his experiences and giving pupils tips on how they can also do hasbara ( loosely translated as " PR for Israel " ) , he tells the JC that he was inspired by his mother , the daughter of a Holocaust survivor , who travels around Europe lecturing on the Shoah , often with Ben in tow . <p> " My mum always finishes her lectures with ' Never Again ' , but when October 7 started , it happened again . " <p> Ben started to explain to his mother 's students how it felt to be a child in Israel " and we saw that people were listening and asking me questions . We thought it would be a nice thing if I spoke , but I do n't think we thought that I would end up being the spokeskid of Israel , " he says . <p> Seeing that Israel was struggling to win the PR battle on the international stage , he felt compelled to tell Israel 's side of the story -- but through a child 's eyes . " I understand that there are a lot of people against Israel for no reason apart from watching fake news , while Hamas is kidnapping hostages , babies , children , women and men . The world is saying : ' Look , look at the Palestinians . ' But what about us ? I ca n't even put it into words how frustrating it is . " <p> Ben addressing a hostage vigil in Borehamwood in Hertfordshire ( @bencarasso ) <p> Chatting over brunch in Golders Green , north-west London , where , earlier that morning , Ben had spoken at a hostage rally , it is clear why Ben is so well-placed for his role in hasbara . With the maturity of someone way beyond nine years old but with a childlike charm and curiosity , he explains how day-to-day life is for kids like him . " Children in Israel have to grow up very fast . If you are playing in the park or going to school and there is an alarm , what should you do ? Stop everything and go to a shelter or a safe room . Is this a reality for kids ? " <p> Three of his closest friends have been deeply impacted by October 7 in different ways . <p> His best friend Yarin 's father , Hanan Yablonka , 41 , was murdered after fleeing the Nova music festival . His body was retrieved from Jabaliya in northern Gaza in May . " Imagine your best friend form kindergarten losing a father , " says Ben . <p> " My other friend Micah , her cousin is hostage Romi Gonen and Micah told me that she is afraid that Hamas will kidnap her too , and Micah lives in Tel Aviv , not even close to Gaza . Do you understand that is not a world kids are supposed to live in ? " <p> Another friend Yahav had to leave his home in the northern city of Kiryat Shmona when Hezbollah started to launch rockets . " Sadly , this is the reality for kids in the north and the south . They have to get out of their homes and go to a safe place , only because Hamas and Hezbollah decide to throw rockets at Israel . Is this fair ? " <p> Speaking to the JC on International Children 's Day , Ben says he feels a sense of responsibility to also be a voice for the children still held in captivity . Kfir Bibas was nine months old when he was kidnapped by Hamas from Kibbutz Nir Oz with his brother Ariel , who was four . " What have they done wrong ? Kfir and Ariel Bibas are children , and as the spokeskid of Israel and as a child who wants world peace , I feel like I have a mission to free them . " <p> Ben Carasso , Israel 's youngest spokesperson , chatted to the JC during a visit to the UK <p> With the trauma from October 7 , over 100 people still held hostage , the threat of rockets and missiles and the ongoing war against Hamas in Gaza , how do children like Ben cope ? " I think that for kids whose family members are caught up in it , it 's very different for them , but sadly , children like me learn to live with it as we 're over a year into this war . We ca n't be sad all day . We have to speak out and live our own lives because otherwise , it will look like we 're not strong , and we are strong . " <p> One day , Ben says that he hopes he will be able to reach out to Palestinian children , but ever the pragmatist , he says : " I would like to have peace and meet them , but first , their leaders need to stop trying to destroy my country . " <p> In the meantime , Ben will continue to give a voice to Israel 's children in the hope that people around the world will start to listen . A couple of days later , he is due to speak at a public vigil for the hostages in Borehamwood in Hertfordshire . <p> " Sometimes , people say : ' You 're just a kid , so why should we listen to you ? We know better than you . ' But kids tell the truth , so if they 're talking about something that 's happening , you ca n't say no to that . "
