<p> Roula Khalaf , Editor of the FT , selects her favourite stories in this weekly newsletter . <p> The writer is a professor of International Relations emeritus at Sciences Po ( Paris ) and a former senior adviser to the UN secretary-general <p> To a sceptic , the Lebanon ceasefire " arrangements " look like a dignified trick to stop an inconclusive war between Israel and Hizbollah . This is a conflict in which a high-tech military made a substantial number of tactical gains , but not to the point of declaring victory , and a determined armed group lost its leadership and most of its arsenal , but not to the point of conceding defeat . <p> A more emphatic reading would see these arrangements as laying the foundations for western trusteeship over Lebanon . Besides the usual commitment to implement a number of UN Security Council resolutions inherited from past confrontations that had been largely ignored , the new agreement adds a novelty : a " mechanism " to supervise that implementation by a western entity led by an American general of which France is a member . <p> A novelty ? Yes , in the sense that these resolutions had left it to the Lebanese army and to the UN force deployed on the border to impose its implementation , the UNSC routinely taking note of their violations . <p> However , older Lebanese remember a multinational " mechanism " put in place after the Israeli invasion of 1982 that ended , one year later , in a huge attack against the American and French contingents that were part of it . The new " arrangements " do not mention any deployment of western troops along 1982 lines , though it is hard to imagine a monitoring mission without military personnel to carry it out . <p> The " arrangements " clearly delink the situation in southern Lebanon from Israel 's war against Hamas in Gaza , but it necessarily links the southern Lebanese security issue to the acute crisis into which the country has slid during the past five years . Lebanon can hardly deliver its share of the " arrangements " without quickly rebuilding its institutions . The ceasefire was transmitted to a Lebanese state without a president , run by a cabinet that lacks the constitutional authority to make decisions ( and which was informed of " the arrangements " just before they were made public ) and by a parliament that can not in principle meet but to elect a president . <p> This is compounded by the large number of vacant positions in the civil service , let alone the Ponzi scheme at the country 's central bank that deprived millions of Lebanese of their savings . Such a " state " is hardly able to be the interlocutor needed . <p> To be efficient , the " mechanism " implied in the " arrangements " therefore needs to venture into an area not mentioned in its 13 paragraphs : helping the Lebanese rebuild their state . State-building is not fashionable these days but the very raison d ' ? tre of the agreement -- security in southern Lebanon -- presupposes a state that can deliver . <p> To succeed , the mechanism needs not only to be firm where Israel 's incessant violations are concerned ( and Israel has unilaterally violated the arrangements multiple times during their first week ) , but also unyielding in the face of a largely corrupt Lebanese political class . An endeavour rendered more difficult by the basic inequality of the arrangements : while Israel is given the right to use force in order to defend itself , on the Lebanese side this right has been transferred from Hizbollah to the Lebanese army , which is far less well equipped than its Israeli counterpart . <p> This is all the more important as the Fragile ( formerly Fertile ) Crescent lurches from one convulsion to the next . The situation in Gaza and the occupied West Bank remains explosive . Here too , the objective can not be to simply agree on the conditions of a ceasefire but rather to build a Palestinian entity that can help deliver it . <p> Also expected to play a part in the Lebanese arrangements is Syria -- by preventing new transfers of weaponry to Lebanon through its territory . But three days after the plans were published , Syria fell into an acute crisis with rebels led by an Islamist group entering Aleppo and with many other towns in the north-west falling under their control . The rebels ' brand-new clothing and the drones they are using clearly indicate substantial help from Turkey , Syria 's neighbour to the north . The regime in Damascus is ( again ) primarily concerned with its own survival . <p> Delinking these conflicts is the rational way to resolve ( at least some of ) them , even though they are connected by deep roots in history , interstate sectarian solidarities and ideological alignments . Still , partial solutions , however unsatisfactory , are better than a protracted cycle of violence that could engulf the whole region . An effective ceasefire in southern Lebanon , despite the many defects of the " arrangements " , could end up being a good place to start .
