<p> In a press conference in Eccleston Square , he reflected : " I have been 35 years in Jerusalem and this is the worst period I 've ever lived in . " <p> I have met the Cardinal in Jerusalem a couple of times when it seemed that tensions between Jewish settlers and Palestinian Christians -- and Christians generally -- were running high , but " this time is different . It 's a turning point in relations between Israelis and Palestinians , politically , religiously , socially " . <p> The turning point of course was 7 October 2023 when Hamas carried out gruesome atrocities against Israelis , killing around 1,400 of them ; almost 100 of the hostages taken then are still in captivity . It was followed swiftly by Israeli reprisals in Gaza . " This was something new for Israelis " , reflected the Cardinal . " For Palestinians , it was the beginning of a new phase in something that started years ago . " <p> That difference in perspective is radical . Israelis are still traumatised by the greatest loss of Jewish lives since the Holocaust ; Palestinians are devastated by the Israeli campaign against Hamas which has seen enormous loss of civilian life , continued displacement of the civilian population and continuous interruptions to the flow of aid which keeps the population from starvation . <p> " The two readings of the situation are totally different " , the Cardinal says . " It 's difficult to reconcile them . So is their response and their attitudes . Both peoples are traumatised . What is common is the hatred and mistrust . You can see it in the language . " <p> The Cardinal is based in Jerusalem , so not in the thick of things , as in Gaza , but he is able to read the Israeli and Palestinian reactions . " What we are seeing , " he says , " is the language of contempt . If you dehumanise the other , violence becomes something acceptable . There is a lot of hate speech . " <p> But there are also , he reflects , divisions within Israelis and Palestinians as well as between them . " The Israeli population is divided , not about the war , but about the politics . Before the war , you could talk about dialogue . Now no-one is ready to engage " . <p> The Cardinal is a highly intelligent and shrewd man , a calm presence , a Franciscan friar by background -- the Franciscans have been engaged in the Holy Land since the time of St Francis . His reading of the situation is all the more sobering for being equable and dispassionate -- which is not to say unemotional . <p> But it is also possible to discern a sense from him that the crisis has sharpened focus -- and brought a new sense of reality . " The Palestinians and Israelis ... there is no alternative to the obvious fact of co-existence . We have to find creative ways to deal with this . We need new ideas " . <p> " We are at the peak of the war today and it is very difficult to talk about perspective " , he says . " We have to be ready when the conflict is over to think how to rebuild , and that 's not simple . " He 's not just talking about infrastructure . " It 's a crisis of the international community . Clearly it is fragile . " He adds with a little smile : " I 've never understood what the international community is . " <p> The role of religion in this situation is , he thinks , fundamental . " Everything in the Holy Land becomes political and there are also religious connotations . This turning point means we can be positive or negative . We have to do something positive . After this crisis we have to find ways to talk . We ca n't ignore each other . " <p> He does meet Muslim and Jewish religious leaders ( before the conflict , this happened often ) but says that it has to be done discreetly -- one assumes that encounters with the opposing side could play badly with these leaders ' own communities : " it 's difficult to meet because of journalists . We met this year , a lot of local religious leaders who never met before . This situation created a new desire to do something . This is a sign of hope for us ... We ca n't change macro-politics but we can change where we are . <p> " Hope is a difficult word . We need to give confidence . A person of faith has a responsibility not to surrender to the situation . I keep saying that hope is a daughter of faith . Hope is not just expectation but the realisation of patience and mercy . I want to share this " . <p> What 's unexpected is that the Cardinal does seem hopeful , even if few other protagonists involved are . He says that he does not have much to do with the Israeli government and as for the Hamas leadership , they have , he observes , been decapitated . He is neither fazed nor optimistic about the prospects of a Trump presidency ; the Biden administration talked peace , he observed , but still provided arms to Israel . But he still sees possibilities for change . <p> " Things do n't change by themselves . One era is finishing . Another is starting now . We do n't know the dynamics . The conflict must finish . There is needed emotional space . Something will come , but it 's never simple . " <p> The Christian community that has borne the brunt of the crisis in Gaza is the Holy Family Church , targeted in an Israeli airstrike in July . " I am very proud of the community in Gaza " , he says . " They have the right to be angry but they are not . I do n't find a word of anger . " What the patriarchate can do , is direct supplies to the church and to the people in the surrounding area , about 100 tonnes of food every two weeks . Was it difficult to make that happen ? " Sometimes " , he says , " you have to be stubborn . " <p> The church convoys did obtain access to the area . " Sometimes " , observes the Patriarch " being a Catholic is something positive . We are considered a reliable organisation . That can be a good thing . " As for the rest of Gaza , the Cardinal is realistic about what he can do , given the difficulties encountered by UNRA , the UN relief organisation . " We can not replace it ; we can help 4,000 people in a population of two million . " And as he observes , " the problem is not just to deliver aid , but to distribute it " . Indeed , a great deal of aid to Palestinians does not go to those most in need . <p> Before the present crisis , there were any number of initiatives to foster inter-community , inter-religious dialogue , but this dialogue of the like-minded is , the Cardinal thinks , no longer sufficient . " We have to communicate with those who think differently . " So , perhaps there might be fewer encounters with herbivorous Muslims and Jews who have always sought peaceful co-existence ; perhaps more with leaders on the extremes . And the truth is , there is little to lose . <p> As for his own community , he observes that , for all the losses , " our bishops see a lot of life there . There 's been a deepening of Latin Catholic identity " . <p> Christmas is coming and that means the celebrations in Bethlehem . He has in the past called for restraint in the festivities but at the same time he wants to mark the season of joy . " We have to celebrate Christmas as Christmas " , he says . This year , people need that more than ever .
