<p> Keir Starmer has said he wo n't choose between the US and the EU as strong alliances would help Britain to " meet this more dangerous age " . <p> In his first speech to the annual Lord Mayor 's Banquet in London , Mr Starmer fleshed out his foreign policy agenda as the UK grapples with conflicts in the Middle East , Ukraine and Donald Trump 's looming presidency . He said global problems were playing out on Britain 's streets , saying : " Conflicts overseas undermine our security , stir up violence and extremism on our streets and drive up the cost of living . <p> " Meanwhile climate change hits economic growth , leaves us exposed to catastrophic flooding and both of these forces drive unsustainable levels of migration . It all manifests in a feeling among many that the system is n't working for them . " Echoing the Brexit campaign 's slogan , he added : " That it 's time to take back control of our lives , our borders , our livelihoods . " <p> Keir Starmer made the comments in his first speech to the Lord Mayor 's banquet in London ( <p> Image : <p> PA ) <p> The Prime Minister said the UK Government would answer these concerns both at home and abroad . He said the period of relative economic stability in the run up to the 2007 financial crisis was over and the world had " emerged now into the harsh light of day " . <p> Mr Starmer said he would n't choose between alliances with America and Europe , saying : " Against the backdrop of these dangerous times , the idea that we must choose between our allies , that somehow we 're with either America or Europe , is plain wrong . " <p> Despite nervousness in the UK about another Trump presidency , he said the UK would " never turn away " from the special relationship with the United States . He said : " Time and again the best hope for the world and the surest way to serve our mutual national interest has come from our two nations working together . " <p> The PM added : " Our security is even more closely intertwined at every level of our military , intelligence , industry , and R&amp;D . That 's why , when President Trump graciously hosted me for dinner in Trump Tower , I told him that we will invest more deeply than ever in this transatlantic bond with our American friends in the years to come . " <p> Mr Starmer blasted the " shocking legacy " left by the Tories on the global stage , saying successive Conservative governments " turned their back on the world " . And he vowed to rebuild ties with Europe after years of Brexit wars . <h> Be the first with news from Mirror Politics <p> POLITICS WHATSAPP : Be first to get the biggest bombshells and breaking news by joining our Politics WhatsApp group here . We also treat our community members to special offers , promotions , and adverts from us and our partners . If you want to leave our community , you can check out any time you like . If you 're curious , you can read our Privacy Notice . <p> The PM said the future of freedom in Europe is being decided now , with " near and present danger " from Russia in its bloody assault on Ukraine . He said the UK will back Ukraine " for as long as it takes " but for the first time he acknowledged the war could move towards a negotiated end . <p> He said : " We must continue to back Ukraine and do what it takes to support their self-defence for as long as it takes . To put Ukraine in the strongest possible position for negotiations so they can secure a just and lasting peace on their terms that guarantees their security , independence , and right to choose their own future . " <p> He promised to set out a clear pathway to hiking defence spending to 2.5% of GDP and to cement Britain 's position as a leading NATO ally . He said : " There is no growth without security -- and no security without alliances . So to fix the foundations we must meet this more dangerous age with an age of deeper alliances . Even closer ties with the US . An unshakeable commitment to NATO . And renewed relations with our neighbours in Europe -- relations which on any objective assessment are vital for our growth and security . " <p> Mr Starmer also vowed to work to maintain peace in Lebanon and to work towards ending conflicts in Gaza and Syria . <p> On China , he said Britain ca n't look the other way . The PM went on : " We need to engage , to cooperate , compete and challenge on growth , on security concerns , on climate as well addressing our differences in a full and frank way on issues like Hong Kong , human rights , and sanctions on our parliamentarians . I am determined to do that and to keep talking . Because I believe we are stronger when we do . "
