<p> On Sunday ( December 1 ) , tens of thousands of protesters gathered outside the parliament building in Tbilisi , with some of them waving Georgian and EU flags and others donning gas masks . <p> Following the conflicts on November 30 , the interior minister announced that 27 protestors , 16 police , and one media representative had been transported to the hospital . <h> Why is Georgia protesting ? <p> The protests were sparked by Prime Minister Irakli Kobakhidze 's announcement that negotiations to join the EU would be postponed . <p> He claimed it was due to " blackmail " from the bloc , but many people worry that the administration is growing more autocratic and intends to forge deeper connections with Russia rather than Europe . <p> Tomorrow 's meeting of the ? ? ? ? Parliament is unconstitutional : 1/massive electoral fraud has undermined its legitimacy.2/ I refused to called the 1st session and the Constitution does not recognize anyone to act as substitute.3/my appeal to the Constitutional court is pending . <p> Opinion polls show that Georgians are overwhelmingly in favour of joining the EU , and the goal of going the bloc is even stated in the constitution . <p> Protests are also reportedly spreading to other parts of the 3.76 million-person nation , which is situated over the Greater Caucasus mountain range on Russia 's southwest border and Turkey 's northeast border . <h> How did Prime Minister Irakli Kobakhidze react to the protests ? <p> Mr Kobakhidze has avoided commenting on the protests but backed a decision to pause EU discussions , saying the idea of EU is n't completely scrapped . <p> He added : " The only thing we have rejected is the shameful and offensive blackmail , which was , in fact , a significant obstacle to our country 's European integration . " <p> The Georgian Dream remains " committed to European integration ... and we are continuing on our path to the European dream , " according to Mr Kobakhidze . <p> However , a growing number of public officials do n't seem to think that 's true . More than 3,000 teachers and hundreds of civil personnel have signed letters denouncing the decision to postpone EU entry , and some diplomats have even resigned . <p> The decision to stop EU talks has drawn harsh criticism from the US as well . Due to worries about democratic backsliding , the United States has stopped its strategic relationship with Georgia . <p> It read : " The Georgian people overwhelmingly support integration with Europe . The United States condemns the excessive use of force by police against Georgians seeking to exercise their rights to assembly and expression , including their freedom to peacefully protest . " <h> Latest stories <p> A third night of protests in the Georgian capital against the government 's decision to suspend negotiations to join the European Union left 44 people hospitalized , officials said Sunday . An effigy of the founder of the governing Georgian Dream party , Bidzina Ivanishvili -- a shadowy billionaire who made his fortune in Russia -- was burned in front of the legislature . Georgia 's Interior Ministry said Sunday that 27 protesters , 16 police and one media worker were hospitalized . <p> Georgia is convulsed by political upheaval again after its pro-Moscow government , fresh off parliamentary elections denounced as rigged by its critics , decided to suspend negotiations for the small former Soviet republic to join the European Union . The small but ancient Caucasus country , which inhabits a crossroads between Slavic , Turkish and Persian cultures , has recently found itself navigating the geopolitical standoff between Russia under strongman President Vladimir Putin and the democratic , wealthy West . Official results from parliamentary elections on Oct. 26 gave victory to the ruling Georgian Dream party , which was created by Bidzina Ivanishvili , a shadowy billionaire who made his fortune in Russia . <p> Israel 's prime minister says he will " respond with force " after Hezbollah fired towards an Israeli military post in disputed territory in Lebanon . Israel said they had been launched toward Mount Dov , a disputed Israeli-held territory known as Shebaa Farms in Lebanon , where the borders of Lebanon , Syria , and Israel meet . Hezbollah said it fired projectiles as a " defensive and warning response " after what it called " repeated violations " of the ceasefire deal by Israel . <p> The White House is working on a ceasefire and hostage release deal in Gaza but is " not there yet , " the US National Security Advisor told NBC on Sunday , with fighting in the conflict raging on as regional leaders meet to discuss the crisis.Speaking in Jerusalem on Sunday , Israeli Foreign Minister Gideon Saar said there were " indications " progress could be made on a deal securing the release of hostages by Hamas in Gaza . <p> White House national security adviser Jake Sullivan said on Sunday that the militant group Hamas is feeling the pressure in the wake of the Israel-Hezbollah ceasefire deal last week . " I do think that Hamas is feeling the pressure . They 're feeling the pressure because one of their main partners in crime here , Hezbollah , has now cut ... <p> In a landmark ruling , Belgium 's court of appeals on Monday said that five women , born in Belgian-ruled Congo and now in their 70s , had been victims of " systematic abduction " by the state when they were abducted from their mothers as small children and brought up in Catholic institutions because of their mixed-race origins . The Belgian state was ordered Monday to pay reparations to five mixed-race women who were forcibly placed in an orphanage 70 years ago under a colonial-era practice that judge <p> French Prime Minister Michel Barnier used Article 49.3 of the constitution on Monday to force his 2025 social security budget through parliament without a vote . The move , intended to bypass the opposition , has triggered a no-confidence motion that could topple the government . " It is now up to you ... to decide if our country should have a financial law that is responsible , indispensable and useful for our fellow French citizens , or if we are to enter into uncharted territory , " Barnier told lawmak <p> French Prime Minister Michel Barnier is bracing for a no-confidence vote this week , a political reckoning almost certain to topple his fragile government and send shockwaves across the eurozone . Barnier on Monday invoked a rarely used constitutional mechanism to push through the contentious 2025 budget without parliamentary approval , arguing it was essential to maintain " stability " amid deep political divisions . The move immediately drew sharp backlash , with Marine Le Pen 's far-right National Rally and the leftist New Popular Front both filing no-confidence motions in response , setting the stage for a vote as early as Wednesday that could see Barnier 's ouster . <p> President-elect Donald Trump is demanding the immediate release of Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza , saying that if they are not freed before he is sworn into office for a second term there will be " HELL TO PAY . " " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " Trump wrote in a post on his Truth Social site . It was not immediately clear whether Trump was threatening to directly involve the U.S. military in Israel 's ongoing campaign against Hamas in Gaza . <p> Protesters rallied in Georgia 's capital for a fourth straight night on Sunday and there were signs that opposition was spreading across the country to the government 's decision to suspend talks on joining the European Union .
