<p> He was born in Lebanon , moved to Texas as a teenager , and ran his family 's business conglomerate in Nigeria . Now , he will be providing counsel to his powerful relative at a time of proliferating conflict around the Middle East , including the ongoing conflict in Gaza and a rebel group 's stunning seizure of Aleppo in Syria . <p> ' I am proud to announce that Massad Boulos will serve as Senior Advisor to the President on Arab and Middle Eastern affairs , ' Trump posted on his Truth Social site . <p> ' Massad is an accomplished lawyer and a highly respected leader in the business world , with extensive experience on the International scene . He has been a longtime proponent of Republican and Conservative values , an asset to my Campaign , and was instrumental in building tremendous new coalitions with the Arab American Community . ' <p> Trump called him a ' dealmaker ' and ' unwavering ' supporter of Middle East peace . <p> He was also sensationally charged with hiring a prostitute for $25,000 to seduce his brother in law , then sending a videotape of the event to his sister . He later pleaded guilty to witness tampering . <p> Former New Jersey Gov . Chris Christie , who prosecuted the case as a U.S. Attorney , said at the time : ' No matter how rich and powerful you are or poor and unpowerful , if you have violated the federal law in the district of New Jersey or if you are corrupting our political system , this office will bring you to justice . ' <p> He called Charles ' crimes the ' most loathsome , disgusting crimes ' he had ever prosecuted . <p> Trump hailed Kushner , who he worked with as a fellow real-estate developer in New York , as a ' tremendous business leader , philanthropist , and dealmaker , who will be a strong advocate representing our Country &amp; its interests . ' <p> Trump , 78 , announced on Saturday afternoon that Charles ( pictured here with sons Josh and Jared ) will serve as the US Ambassador of France . The former president pardoned Charles in 2020 . The father-of-four was sentenced nearly two years in prison for a tax fraud conviction <p> Son Donald Trump , Jr. , serves as an honorary chairman of Trump 's transition , and as an advisor helped push Trump 's selection of J.D. Vance as his running mate .
