<h> Israel responds to Hezbollah rocket attack with airstrikes on south Lebanon <p> William Christou in Beirut <p> 2 December 2024 at 11:46 am*4-min read <p> Smoke rises as a result of an Israeli airstrike near the south Lebanon village of Meiss El-Jabal on Monday.Photograph : Atef Safadi/EPA <p> Israel has carried out a series of airstrikes in the Nabatieh district , south Lebanon , in response to Hezbollah rocket fire near a watchtower , in the deadliest attacks since a ceasefire came into effect last week . <p> The Israeli PM , Benjamin Netanyahu , promised there would be a strong response to Hezbollah 's attack , and the Israeli military later said it had " struck Hezbollah terrorists , dozens of launchers , and terrorist infrastructure throughout Lebanon " . <p> Lebanon 's health ministry said at least nine people had been killed in Israeli strikes on the two southern towns of Haris and Talousa . The Israeli bombing constituted the most significant attacks since the ceasefire was established on Wednesday . <p> The Israeli military had previously carried out several strikes over the past week , but at a lower intensity . Israeli media reported on Sunday that France , which is supposed to supervise the implementation of the deal , had accused Israel of violating the ceasefire agreement 52 times since its establishment . <p> Hezbollah had launched two rockets near a watchtower in the occupied Shebaa farms earlier on Monday night . They landed in an open area and caused no injuries . In a statement , the group said the attack on the watchtowers was an " initial warning defensive response " against " repeated violations " by Israel of the ceasefire agreement . <p> The resumption of tit-for-tat strikes in south Lebanon and north Israel has caused concern that fully-fledged fighting between Hezbollah and Israel could resume just five days after a ceasefire was announced . <p> Residents of Lebanon braced themselves for Israel 's response to Hezbollah 's attack on Monday night , with a witness saying that people started leaving Dahiyeh , the southern suburbs of Beirut where Hezbollah enjoys strong support , shortly after Netanyahu vowed to retaliate . <p> " We are tired , we ca n't handle any more of this . People barely just got back to their homes , " said Ali , a resident of Beirut from Tyre , south Lebanon . <p> Fighting has taken a heavy toll in Lebanon , with almost 4,000 people killed by Israeli strikes , more than 1 million people displaced and ? 6.7bn in damages over the last 13 months . Residents of south Lebanon had just begun to return to their homes this week and begin repairs . In north Israel , more than 60,000 people remain displaced by Hezbollah rockets . <p> The ceasefire mandates that Israeli troops leave south Lebanon and Hezbollah 's fighters vacate the area south of the Litani River , about 18 miles north of the Israel-Lebanon border , within 60 days . The deal ended 13 months of fighting that began after Hezbollah launched rockets at Israel on 8 October 2023 " in solidarity " with Hamas 's attack a day prior . <p> A key point of contention in the ceasefire has revolved around Israel 's right to unilaterally enforce what it deems to be violations of the truce . Israel has sought assurances from the US that it could take action against Hezbollah on its own if the Lebanese army fails to stop Hezbollah from acting in south Lebanon . <p> Israeli officials have stressed that it will maintain the right to carry out attacks and reopen the front in Lebanon if it feels the ceasefire deal is not being respected . <p> During a tour in south Lebanon on Monday morning , the head of Israel 's military Lt Gen Herzi Halevi said : " We will attack with great force in the face of Hezbollah 's dangerous violations , this is what we will continue to do . We have plans and targets that are ready to be implemented at any moment . " <p> Hezbollah has said that Israel does not have the right to carry out attacks in Lebanon or fly its aircraft in Lebanese airspace , saying this would be an encroachment of Lebanese sovereignty . The Hezbollah MP , Hassan Fadlallah , said on Wednesday that the group is ready to respond if Israel violates the truce , saying the ceasefire agreement recognises " the right of the two parties to self-defence " . <p> Analysts have said that Hezbollah , weakened from more than a year of fighting , does not want to reignite a war with Israel but must play a balancing act by not appearing too docile in the face of continuing Israeli strikes . <p> Western diplomats have reportedly cautioned Israel to be less aggressive in its attacks on Lebanon and urged it to allow the monitoring mechanism , which is meant to supervise the ceasefire , to begin its work . US Maj Gen Jasper Jeffers arrived in Beirut on 27 November to co-chair the ceasefire committee alongside US envoy Amos Hochstein . <p> During a briefing with reporters on Monday , state department spokesperson Matthew Miller said the ceasefire had not broken down and that the US-led enforcement mechanism would address violations . <p> " If we do see violations of the ceasefire , we 'll go to the parties and tell them to knock it off , " Miller said . <h> Latest stories <p> Israel has carried out daily strikes in Lebanon since Thursday , the day after a ceasefire went into effect . On Monday , Hezbollah fired two projectiles , which landed in an open area , according to the Israeli military <p> US President-elect Donald Trump on Monday warned Gaza militants of massive repercussions if hostages are not released by the time he takes office . " If the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " Trump wrote on his Truth Social platform . <p> Israeli jets Sunday launched an airstrike over a southern Lebanese border village , while troops shelled other border towns and villages still under Israeli control , Lebanon 's state-run National News Agency reported . The attacks come days after a US-brokered ceasefire agreement between Israel and Hezbollah went into effect .
