<p> Second , this money is being offered as loans and various other types of funding mechanisms which require repayment or access to materials and natural resources , at preferential rates . <p> From a distance , this seems to be more of the same wealth extraction under the guise of " helping out " these poor relations that are the victims of the profligacy by the developed world exacted on the developing world for several hundreds of years . <p> It is a " weel kent " fact that migration starts with the need to survive , and risk to life is caused by the lack of water or too much of the wrong type , like sea water . Expanding this a little further , the lack of fresh drinking water drives warfare , and more migration . <p> As a species , we have migrated all over the world facing even greater challenges than we do now , as we are even better organised , with more technological innovation available . <p> If the developed world ( which includes Scotland , England , Wales and Ireland ) will not pay up what 's needed to stem the rise of global temperature and the risks of inundation , they ( we ) will need to hire more police , border guards , fences , walls , razor wire , to stem the tide of migrants . <p> Oh , the irony facing Scotland of having a falling population . It does n't seem to have been a very fair COP . <p> When I was at primary school in Haddington in the 1940s , the word used for an apple-core was a gowk . Because we were hungry and because of the necessity of not being found eating in class , we always ate the gowks . I still do . It was years before I realised the apple core 's white face and black pip eyes really does look like a gowk ( ghost ) . <p> Professor Baird , being in Orkney , will have a good ear for the Orcadian speech . That was my mither 's tongue , so I have been cheered to read the Auld and New Testaments , the whole Bible translated into Doric , the Scots of the north and north-east . This was published a few months ago , the culmination of 17 years of dedicated work by Gordon M Hay , a lawyer in Peterhead , in whose native tongue it is . <p> The Bible brought to us by Ninian ( AD 350-420 ) and Columba ( AD 540-597 ) would be in Latin , though taught by them in Pictish and Gaelic . There was a Gaelic Bible printed two-and-a-half centuries ago , but in spite of the fact that generations of Scots missionaries have translated the Bible into other languages all over the world , there was never till now a whole Bible in Scots . <p> The Doric New Testament is as lively and relevant to us as the Aramaic was to Galilee . Why has it not been properly recognised on the Scottish cultural scene ? It should be being thought about , discussed , criticised and celebrated . It should be being compared with Lorimer 's Scots New Testament , which saw the light of day in 1983 . <p> Instead -- an eerie silence . What ails us ? <p> Lesley Findlay Fort Augustus <p> IT 'S difficult sometimes , when you stand too close to something , to see it , but it seems to me as though that nice Mr Starmer has already introduced his " assisted dying bill " by the simple act of denying us old ' uns the ? 400 energy grant . <p> Far too many of us will be " assisted " by this act of his . <p> Do you know , I am not alone in thinking Thatcher was bad , but this one beats her hands down . <p> MY own belief is that if one chooses to end one 's life , for whatever reason , after careful counselling and consideration , then that is a right . In principle , then , but that is as far as it goes . Terminal care is expensive , personal funds for the inheritance of others can be drained away in nursing care . The demand for hospital beds grows . <p> The problem for me is that not only is this a personal choice but also one for the authorities . We live in a capitalist society and the clue is in the name ; a system dedicated to the pursuit of wealth . We see the policy of austerity meant to address the country 's financial state resulting in the dilution of public services . Will the idea ever take hold in the Treasury that old , disabled and terminally ill people are a bit too expensive ? Then the PR and propaganda machines fire up to persuade the nation . Those in power will tell us that life is sacred : those same administrators who aid and abet the Gaza genocide . <h> Why are you making commenting on The National only available to subscribers ? <p> We know there are thousands of National readers who want to debate , argue and go back and forth in the comments section of our stories . We 've got the most informed readers in Scotland , asking each other the big questions about the future of our country . <p> Unfortunately , though , these important debates are being spoiled by a vocal minority of trolls who are n't really interested in the issues , try to derail the conversations , register under fake names , and post vile abuse . <p> So that 's why we 've decided to make the ability to comment only available to our paying subscribers . That way , all the trolls who post abuse on our website will have to pay if they want to join the debate -- and risk a permanent ban from the account that they subscribe with . <p> The conversation will go back to what it should be about -- people who care passionately about the issues , but disagree constructively on what we should do about them . Let 's get that debate started ! <p> Callum Baird , Editor of The National <h> Comments : Our rules <p> We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues . The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege , not a right , however , and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused. <h> follow us <p> This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation 's Editors ' Code of Practice . If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then please contact the editor here . If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact IPSO here
