<h> Live feed <p> David Weiss , the justice department special counsel who successfully prosecuted Hunter Biden on fraud and gun charges , hit back at Joe Biden 's assertion that his son has been unfairly prosecuted . <p> In a filing opposing the dismissal of Hunter Biden 's tax fraud case in California , Weiss said : <p> The defendant filed eight ( 8 ) motions to dismiss the indictment , making every conceivable argument for why it should be dismissed , all of which were determined to be meritless . Of note , the defendant argued that the indictment was a product of vindictive and selective prosecution . The Court rejected that claim finding that " as the Court stated at the hearing , Defendant filed his motion without any evidence . And there was none and never has been any evidence of vindictive or selective prosecution in this case . <p> Biden pleaded guilty to the tax charges , after a jury in Delaware earlier this year found him guilty of lying about his drug use on a background check form he filled out to purchase a firearm . <p> In the filing , Weiss argued against dismissing the tax case , saying that it should instead be closed , with no further action taken against Biden . Here 's more from Weiss : <p> The defendant did not docket the pardon nor has the government seen it . If media reports are accurate , the Government does not challenge that the defendant has been the recipient of an act of mercy . But that does not mean the grand jury 's decision to charge him , based on a finding of probable cause , should be wiped away as if it never occurred . It also does not mean that his charges should be wiped away because the defendant falsely claimed that the charges were the result of some improper motive . No court has agreed with the defendant on these baseless claims , and his request to dismiss the indictment finds no support in the law or the practice of this district . <p> Donald Trump has named the billionaire investment banker Warren A Stephens -- who poured millions of dollars into GOP coffers during the last election cycle -- as his nomination as ambassador to Britain . <p> A " previously undisclosed whistleblower report " on Pete Hegseth , Trump 's pick for defense secretary , highlighted allegations of financial mismanagement , sexual impropriety , and personal misconduct , which forced him to step down from two non-profits he ran . <h> Trump names billionaire investment banker as US ambassador to the UK <p> Trump has named the billionaire investment banker Warren A Stephens as his nomination as ambassador to Britain . Making the announcement on Truth Social , Trump called Stephens the " one of the most successful businessmen in the Country " , and said he had always dreamed of serving the United States full-time . <p> Stephens is the chair , president and CEO of Stephens Inc , a privately owned financial services firm headquartered in Little Rock , Arkansas , but he 's also a big political spender with a history of throwing millions behind the candidates and causes he favors . <p> He has n't always been on team Trump , even donating against him in the early years , but Stephens poured millions of dollars into GOP coffers during the last election cycle -- including at least $3m donated to the Super Pac Make America Great Again Inc . <p> Mr Stephens used an opaque holding company to own an approximately 40 percent stake in a loan business accused by the federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau of cheating working-class and poor Americans . While earning millions from the investment , Mr Stephens helped finance a political onslaught against the bureau , never mentioning his personal connection to the fight . <p> Trump highlighted in his announcement post that Stephens " has built a wonderful financial services firm , while selflessly giving back to his community as a philanthropist " . <p> Speaking on CNN , the congressman Dan Goldman voiced support for the pardon , citing how the incoming administration may double down with politically motivated actions . <p> " I find it pretty ironic and hypocritical that so many Republicans have seemed to find the rule of law when it comes to Joe Biden 's pardoning of Hunter , and are happily ignorant of the rule of law when it comes to Donald Trump and everything he has done , " he said . <p> " It is yet another example of how Donald Trump is a danger to our rule of law . " <p> As reported by the Guardian 's Ed Pilkington , Patel is a " deep state " conspiracy theorist and Trump loyalist who has long denigrated the FBI as a pillar of the " corrupt ruling class " . He has threatened to fire its top echelons and shut down the agency 's headquarters , and has publicly pledged to prosecute political opponents and members of the media who he considers enemies of the Administration . <p> West Virginia Senator Joe Manchin said he understood the president 's pardon , telling CNN 's Manu Raju that he was n't going to " cast stones " , but that Biden would better protect his legacy if he also pardoned Trump . <p> " The bottom line is this , Joe Biden is still a father and that paternal it kicked in and that 's what it is , " Manchin said , adding that it would be balanced by " throwing everything out on Trump " : <p> What I would have done differently and my recommendation as the council would have been , why do n't you go ahead and pardon Donald Trump for all his charges and make it you know , it would have gone down a lot more balanced , if you will ... Rather than going through all these court cases and getting , you know , the president has to be the president for the next four years , fighting all these criminal and all this other stuff 's coming after him , just clean that slate up . Let 's get this behind us and move forward . That 's what I -- that would have been my recommendation . <p> Despite the worrying allegations leveled against him , Donald Trump 's pick for defense secretary , Pete Hegseth , continues to make the rounds of Republican senators whose votes will be vital to his confirmation . <p> He was on Capitol Hill today , meeting with the Alabama senator Tommy Tuberville : <p> Pete Hegseth arrives for a meeting with senator Tommy Tuberville at the Capitol on Monday . Photograph : Samuel Corum/Getty Images <p> Joe Biden 's decision to pardon his son after months of saying he would do no such thing amounts to a brazen broken promise by the outgoing president . It also resembles just the sort of thing Donald Trump would do , the Guardian 's David Smith reports : <p> A loving act of mercy by a father who has already known much sorrow ? Or a hypocritical political manoeuvre reminiscent of his great foe ? Maybe both can be true . <p> Joe Biden 's announcement on Sunday that he had pardoned his son Hunter , who is facing sentencing in two criminal cases , is likely to have been the product of a Shakespearean struggle between head and heart . <p> On the one hand , Biden is one of the last great institutionalists in Washington . " From the day I took office , I said I would not interfere with the Justice Department 's decision-making , " he said in an unusually direct and personal statement on Sunday . To undermine the separation of powers goes against every fibre of his political being . <p> On the other hand , Biden is nothing without family . His speeches are peppered with references to his parents . As a senator , he once took a train from Washington to Wilmington , Delaware , so he could see his daughter Ashley blow out the candles on a cake made for her eighth birthday , then cross the platform and take the next train back to work . <h> Jill Biden backs pardon for Hunter Biden <p> At a White House holiday season event earlier today with families of National Guard members , reporters asked first lady Jill Biden about Joe Biden 's decision to pardon his son , Hunter . <p> " Of course I support the pardon of my son , " Jill Biden replied . <p> Hunter Biden is the son of Joe Biden and his first wife , Neilia Hunter Biden , who died in a crash crash in 1972 along with the president 's daughter , Naomi . Joe and Jill Biden have been married since 1977 . <p> David Weiss , the justice department special counsel who successfully prosecuted Hunter Biden on fraud and gun charges , hit back at Joe Biden 's assertion that his son has been unfairly prosecuted . <p> In a filing opposing the dismissal of Hunter Biden 's tax fraud case in California , Weiss said : <p> The defendant filed eight ( 8 ) motions to dismiss the indictment , making every conceivable argument for why it should be dismissed , all of which were determined to be meritless . Of note , the defendant argued that the indictment was a product of vindictive and selective prosecution . The Court rejected that claim finding that " as the Court stated at the hearing , Defendant filed his motion without any evidence . And there was none and never has been any evidence of vindictive or selective prosecution in this case . <p> Biden pleaded guilty to the tax charges , after a jury in Delaware earlier this year found him guilty of lying about his drug use on a background check form he filled out to purchase a firearm . <p> In the filing , Weiss argued against dismissing the tax case , saying that it should instead be closed , with no further action taken against Biden . Here 's more from Weiss : <p> The defendant did not docket the pardon nor has the government seen it . If media reports are accurate , the Government does not challenge that the defendant has been the recipient of an act of mercy . But that does not mean the grand jury 's decision to charge him , based on a finding of probable cause , should be wiped away as if it never occurred . It also does not mean that his charges should be wiped away because the defendant falsely claimed that the charges were the result of some improper motive . No court has agreed with the defendant on these baseless claims , and his request to dismiss the indictment finds no support in the law or the practice of this district . <h> More Democrats signal discomfort with pardon of Hunter Biden <p> An increasing number of Democrats is voicing their objections to Joe Biden 's decision to pardon his son , Hunter Biden , who was expected to soon be sentenced on federal tax and gun charges . <p> In a statement released last night , the president said he had opted to pardon Hunter because he believed he was a victim of " selective prosecution " that was intended to undermine his sobriety . In the hours since , several Democrats have said they disagreed with its decision , because it undermined Biden 's stated commitment to the rule of law . <p> Among those newly speaking out are Vermont senator Peter Welch , who wrote on X : <p> President Biden 's pardon of his son Hunter is , as the action of a loving father , understandable -- but as the action of our nation 's Chief Executive , unwise . <p> And Colorado congressman Jason Crow : <p> The Hunter Biden pardon was a mistake . I sympathize with a father 's love , especially in a family that has experienced so much personal tragedy . I also understand the legal arguments in favor of a pardon . But Presidential pardons are never judged solely on the merits of the case , particularly when it involves a family member . Presidents hold enormous power and responsibility and must be held to a higher standard . They must instill trust and promote the American people 's faith in their democracy . And right now , upholding the fabric of our democracy is one of our most important tasks . <p> We have yet to hear from the top Democrats in Congress , House minority leader Hakeem Jeffries and Senate majority leader Chuck Schumer . Nancy Pelosi , the former House speaker who remains influential in the party , also has not commented publicly . <p> While Donald Trump did not mention Hamas specifically , the group is plainly aware that he will soon be the next US president , and in a recently released video , an Israeli-American hostage appealed to Trump to make a deal for his release . Here 's more , from the Guardian 's Edward Helmore : <p> The White House has condemned a Hamas-issued propaganda video of Israeli-American hostage Edan Alexander urging president-elect Donald Trump and Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu to make a deal to free remaining hostages in Gaza , calling it " a cruel reminder of Hamas 's terror against citizens of multiple countries , including our own " . <p> In the video , titled " Soon ... Time is running out " and posted on Saturday on the Telegram channel of Hamas 's military wing , the Qassam Brigades , Alexander calls on Trump to use his " influence and the full power of the United States to negotiate for our freedom " . <p> Alexander , who has been held by Hamas since 7 October 2023 , appears to be under duress as he states that he has been held captive for more than 420 days . <p> " Please do not make the mistake Biden has been doing , " he says , adding that he does not want to " end up dead like my fellow USA citizen , Hersh " , a reference to American-Israeli Hersh Goldberg Polin , who was killed while being held by Hamas in August . <h> Trump demands release of Middle East hostages before he takes office , or ' there will be ALL HELL TO PAY ' <p> Donald Trump has issued a vague threat to groups who have taken hostages in the Middle East , telling them , to release their captives before his inauguration or else " there will be ALL HELL TO PAY " . <p> The message , posted on Truth Social , follows news that Omer Neutra , a US-Israeli citizen believed to be taken captive by Hamas in the Gaza Strip , has been dead since the 7 October attack . Dozens of other hostages , a small number of whom have US citizenship , are believed to remain the group 's captivity . <p> Everybody is talking about the hostages who are being held so violently , inhumanely , and against the will of the entire World , in the Middle East - But it 's all talk , and no action ! Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity . Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America . RELEASE THE HOSTAGES NOW ! <h> Raskin seeks judiciary committee leadership role <p> Jamie Raskin , the Maryland congressman and long-time critic of Donald Trump , is seeking to become the top Democrat on the House judiciary committee , CNN reports . <p> Jamie Raskin . Photograph : Will Oliver/EPA <p> The network said it obtained a letter from Raskin declaring his intention to challenge New York representative Jerry Nadler for the role as ranking member , setting up what it calls an " intraparty fight " . <p> Raskin wrote that he had spent a week consulting colleagues and " engaging in serious introspection " about running for the senior committee role : <p> This is where we will wage our front-line defense of the freedoms and rights of the people , the integrity of the Department of Justice and the FBI , and the security of our most precious birthright possessions : the Constitution and the Bill of Rights , the rule of law , and democracy itself . <p> The New Yorker has published details from a " previously undisclosed whistleblower report " that allegedly led to the departure of Pete Hegseth , Donald Trump 's pick for defense secretary , from two veterans ' advocacy groups . <p> The Fox News host faced " serious allegations of financial mismanagement , sexual impropriety , and personal misconduct " that saw him forced to step down from Veterans for Freedom and Concerned Veterans for America ( CVA ) , two nonprofits he ran . <p> Pete Hegseth . Photograph : Instagram <p> A " trail of documents " includes claims Hegseth was " repeatedly intoxicated while acting in his official capacity -- to the point of needing to be carried out of the organization 's events " , during his 2013-2016 presidency of the CVA , the New Yorker reported . <p> Under Hegseth 's leadership , the seven-page report alleges , the organization became a " hostile workplace that ignored serious accusations of impropriety , including an allegation made by a female employee that another employee on Hegseth 's staff had attempted to sexually assault her " at a Louisiana strip club . <p> Tim Parlatore , an attorney for Hegseth , told the magazine the claims were " outlandish " and fueled by a " petty and jealous disgruntled former associate " . <p> In a White House statement Monday , the president and first lady said Neutra , a Long Island native and Israeli Defense Forces tank commander who was 21 on the day of the attack , had planned to return to the US for college , and was dedicated " to building peace " : <p> Less than a month ago , Omer 's mother and father joined me at the White House to share the pain they 've endured as they prayed for the safe return of their son -- pain no parent should ever know . They told me how Omer 's grandparents were Holocaust survivors and how their family 's strength and resilience has been carried through the generations . <p> During this dark hour -- as our nation joins Omer 's parents , brother , and family in grieving this tragic loss -- we pray to find strength and resilience . And to all the families of those still held hostage : We see you . We are with you . And I will not stop working to bring your loved ones back home where they belong . <h> The day so far <p> Joe Biden 's pardon of his son Hunter Biden , who pleaded guilty to federal tax evasion charges and was convicted of firearms charges , has attracted condemnation from his Republican adversaries and even from someDemocrats . The White House defended the move , with press secretary Karine Jean-Pierresaying " it was not an easy decision to make " , and that Biden still has confidence in the justice department even after he said his son was a victim of " selective prosecution " . The president is en route to Angola as he makes the first visit by a US president to sub-Saharan Africa since 2015 . <p> Here 's what else has happened today so far : <p> Jean-Pierre said Biden will announce more pardons and grants of clemency in the final weeks before he leaves office . <p> Some Democratshave defended Biden 's pardon of his son , including New Jersey congressman Josh Gottheimer . <p> Legal expertssaid the Biden 's pardon of his son was unusual in its scope , and comparable only to the pardon former president Gerald Ford gave to his predecessor , Richard Nixon .
