<p> In late 2016 , soon after Donald Trump was elected to his first White House term , many women were diligently knitting pink " pussy " hats to wear at a huge march where they protested against the election of a man who had recently boasted that he would " grab " women . <p> There were other protests too . And across much of non-Trump-voting America , there was a sense of activism and engagement amid the shock of a Trump victory as many ordinary Americans galvanized themselves for what turned out to be one of the most chaotic presidencies in US history . <p> Eight years later , the response of many centrist and left-leaning Americans to a Trump second term has been more muted . For many anti-Trump voters -- and even some institutions -- the return of Trump prompts a feeling of just wanting to ignore it all , including politics more broadly , and focus their energy elsewhere . <p> In New York City , residents were once shocked that one of their own -- Donald Trump , a man once close to Democratic power brokers in the city -- had been elected , as a Republican , over Hillary Clinton . In the aftermath of November 's shock national election , they are more apt to say , " Well , we got whipped , " and move on to other topics . <p> The left-leaning media outlet MSNBC has lost 47% of its audience since election day , according to Nielsen Media Research , while the Los Angeles Times and especially the Washington Post saw subscribers flee by the hundreds of thousands after the billionaire owners of each paper chose at the last minute not to make a presidential endorsement . <p> After a year of intense energy , propelled by political events including two Trump assassination attempts and Joe Biden stepping down from his campaign , the mood in New York has deflated : call it the great tune-out of late 2024 . <p> It is , said Sonia Ossorio , executive director of the National Organization for Women NYC , " a coping method " . <p> " Women 's relationship to politics is like a bad romance : you call a friend to remind you how toxic it is , " Ossorio said . " Coming to terms with the election and feeling a sense of instability about the future is personal right now , and people feel drained . It will take time and needed collective reflection to regroup . " <p> In New York 's Washington Square Park , the site of 2016 anti-Trump protests that segued seamlessly into protests for #MeToo , Black Lives Matter , the overturning of Roe v Wade , Ukraine , Gaza and more , today there 's almost no overt sign of resistance to Trump 2 . <p> Hundreds of thousands march down Pennsylvania Avenue during the Women 's March in Washington DC in 2017 . Photograph : Bryan Woolston/Reuters <p> " For me it 's an exhaustion , " said Josh Marcus , a 39-year-old tech worker from El Paso , Texas , who was visiting the park with his partner , Marisha Hicks , a stay-at-home mother . The pair had come on vacation to gauge whether it might be time to move back to New York , in part to leave Texas politics behind them . <p> " We went from disappointment that Biden was staying in , " Marcus said , which changed when " he dropped out , Kamala came in and we felt a little bit better and she had a chance . But it was the complete opposite when it came to election day . " <p> Hicks , 45 , said she was in a period of mourning . " The first time it happened I was in complete shock . This time , I almost expected it . So now I 'm personally focused on strategizing for the next four years . " <p> Both said too many losses to Trump -- whether it be the Russia investigation , two impeachments , the failure of federal prosecutions and a felony conviction that appeared to do little to slow his momentum , if not the reverse -- had led to a sense of inevitability . <p> " It kept happening , " said Marcus . " We 'd be thinking , ' Surely he 's not going to get past this ? ' But then you just come to expect he will -- and he did . " <p> Hicks said she had hopes that the non-politically motivated , those who did not vote at all , would now be the ones to start a revolution . <p> " I voted , but I can totally empathize with those who did n't . People are definitely giving Trump less attention . I certainly do n't want to read his tweets this time around . " <p> Jaylen Alli , a street artist in the park , said he was n't " too big on politics in general . I do n't waste my energy , my opinions or my thoughts on these kinds of constructs . Politics is a selfish machine that does n't help the people . " <p> A new study from the Cambridge Judge Business School analyzed the relationship between traditional media and social media and found that news articles were being influenced by the latter to adopt a more negative tone . <p> " In the aftermath of the US election , people might well feel overwhelmed by the volume of negative news they 've been exposed to , " said the study 's co-author Joe Watson . <p> " Taking a break could be important for many reasons , including to recover . " <p> Rosie Creamer , 54 , a fashion shoot producer who was shopping for the Thanksgiving holiday on Sixth Avenue last week , said : " I ca n't live my life in a future trip about what 's going to happen . " She added : " Trump said he 'd build a wall and make Mexico pay for it . Did that happen ? No . " <p> Creamer said she had started to pay less attention to media reports , and to take them with a bigger grain of salt . " Every time I read an article saying ' This could happen , ' I stop reading . It also means it could not . So we 'll see . I 'll proceed accordingly . " <p> Rachel O'Leary Carmona , executive director at Women 's March , is planning another march on Washington in January for which the group , she says , has collected 100,000 signatures . At least 470,000 people were at the women 's march in 2017 , and more than 2 million were estimated to have joined protests around the world . <p> " I think we 're seeing a different reaction " this time around , Carmona said . " Folks are stunned and taking time to figure out what this means . " <p> One change could be for protest to become more localized , moving away from the kind of tightly choreographed marches that characterized Trump 's first term . The protest group Indivisible has put out a new protest manual that notes political power resides in many places . <p> According to Carmona , the diffusion of protest from national to local is an option , but she believes marches remain useful -- perhaps even more so now -- because she believes they bring new people into movements . " They help tell our story and demonstrate our agenda to people where they are at . They bring the movement to the people , not the people to the movement . <p> " I 'm sure that once folks are rested , they will be back in their lane , fighting , " she added . " But not every intervention is for every person . "
