<p> It was the first time a US president had been convicted of or charged with a criminal offence . <p> MrTrump had tried to cover up " hush money " payments to a porn star in the days before the 2016 election . <p> When Stormy Daniels ' claims of a sexual liaison threatened to upend his presidential campaign , Trump directed his lawyer to pay $130,000 ( ? 102,000 ) to keep her quiet . <p> A judge delayed Mr Trump 's scheduled 26 November sentencing indefinitely last month to give him the chance to seek dismissal . <p> A dismissal would erase Mr Trump 's historic conviction , sparing him of a criminal record and possible prison sentence . <p> The judge could also decide to uphold the verdict and proceed to sentencing , delay the case until Mr Trump leaves office , wait until a federal appeals court rules on Trump 's parallel effort to get the case moved out of state court or choose some other option . <p> The president-elect 's lawyers argue having the case loom over his four-year presidential term that begins on 20 January would cause " unconstitutional impediments " to his ability to govern . <p> Prosecutors have until 9 December to respond . <p> The filing references the pardon Joe Biden issued to his son on Monday , in which the president said Hunter Biden was " unfairly prosecuted " on gun and tax charges . <p> Mr Trump 's lawyers said : " President Biden argued that ' raw politics has infected this process and it led to a miscarriage of justice ' . These comments amounted to an extraordinary condemnation of President Biden 's own DOJ department of justice " . <p> The Manhattan District Attorney Alvin Bragg " has engaged in ' precisely the type of political theatre ' that President Biden has condemned " , the filing added . <p> " This case is based on a contrived , defective , and unprecedented legal theory relating to 2017 entries in documents that were maintained hundreds of miles away from the White House where President Trump was running the country . " <p> The district attorney 's " disruptions to the institution of the presidency violate the presidential immunity doctrine because they threaten the functioning of the federal government , " the filing said . <p> The prosecutors ' " ridiculous suggestion that they could simply resume proceedings after President Trump leaves office , more than a decade after they commenced their investigation in 2018 , is not an option , " the filing claimed . <p> Mr Trump 's lawyers also claimed the case should be thrown out because of his " extraordinary service " to the US , adding that his " civil and financial contributions to this city and the nation are too numerous to count " . <p> The president-elect has said he intends to nominate the lawyers who wrote the filing - Todd Blanche and Emil Bove - to top jobs in the justice department , which they criticise in the documents . <p> A drunk driver who was spotted " running away " from the scene of a crash asked police if they could " speak tomorrow " as officers found him lying in bed . Karl Coleman was more than twice the legal alcohol limit after hitting a parked car in Wisbech , Cambridgeshire , on 21 October and has been banned from driving for 20 months . In bodycam footage released by Cambridgeshire Police , Coleman replied " no comment " when asked if he 'd had a drink and said he did n't know where his car was . <p> A bout of pneumonia led Queen Camilla , the wife of King Charles III , to cancel several events , she told guests at Buckingham Palace on Tuesday , according to UK media.Camilla missed last month 's Remembrance Day commemoration events due to the chest infection . <p> Hundreds of people in England with a rare form of eye cancer are set to have access to a " pioneering " drug , the NHS has announced . Following approval by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence ( NICE ) , patients diagnosed with uveal melanoma can now be offered a drug called tebentafusp . The cancer is thought to affect between 500 and 600 people in the UK each year , and develops from cells in the middle layer of the eye . <p> President-elect Donald Trump is demanding the immediate release of Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza , saying that if they are not freed before he is sworn into office for a second term there will be " HELL TO PAY . " " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " Trump wrote in a post on his Truth Social site . It was not immediately clear whether Trump was threatening to directly involve the U.S. military in Israel 's ongoing campaign against Hamas in Gaza .
