<p> The White House has condemned a Hamas-issued propaganda video of Israeli-American hostage Edan Alexander urging president-elect Donald Trump and Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu to make a deal to free remaining hostages in Gaza , calling it " a cruel reminder of Hamas 's terror against citizens of multiple countries , including our own " . <p> In the video , titled " Soon ... Time is running out " and posted on Saturday on the Telegram channel of Hamas 's military wing , the Qassam Brigades , Alexander calls on Trump to use his " influence and the full power of the United States to negotiate for our freedom " . <p> Alexander , who has been held by Hamas since 7 October 2023 , appears to be under duress as he states that he has been held captive for more than 420 days . <p> " Please do not make the mistake Biden has been doing , " he says , adding that he does not want to " end up dead like my fellow USA citizen , Hersh " , a reference to American-Israeli Hersh Goldberg Polin , who was killed while being held by Hamas in August . <p> In a statement , national security council spokesperson Sean Savett said the war in Gaza " would stop tomorrow and the suffering of Gazans would end immediately -- and would have ended months ago -- if Hamas agreed to release the hostages " . <p> The White House statement continued that a hostage deal was currently " on the table " and that President Joe Biden and the US would " continue to work around the clock to secure the release of our citizens , including through diplomatic efforts and by increasing pressure on Hamas terrorists through sanctions , law enforcement actions , and other measures " . <p> Last week , Biden said there existed " a critical opportunity to conclude the deal to release the hostages , stop the war , and surge humanitarian assistance into Gaza " . <p> But the video is directed squarely at the president-elect , who held a picture of Alexander while meeting with his parents , Adi and Yael , in New York on the one year anniversary of the Hamas attack . <p> At an event in Florida later that day , Trump called the attack " one of the darkest days in all of history " before pivoting to blame then presidential rival and vice-president Kamala Harris and Biden for the " weakness " he said gave Hamas confidence to launch the attack . <p> Yael Alexander told rallygoers at " Hostage Square " in Tel Aviv on Saturday that she was " shaken by the video " and had spoken with Netanyahu . <p> She said the Israeli leader had " strengthened me and assured me that now , after the deal in Lebanon , the conditions are ripe to release you and bring you home " , referring to a 60-day ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah in Lebanon that went into effect on Wednesday . <p> In the video , Alexander , who grew up in New Jersey and joined the Israeli army after high school , addresses prime minister Netanyahu in Hebrew . " I heard you speaking to the people of Israel on the news , and I am very disappointed . I heard that you will give $5m to whoever brings us back alive . The prime minister is supposed to protect his citizens and soldiers , and you neglected us . " <p> Alexander continues : " The fear is at its peak , and we are dying a thousand times every day that passes , and no one feels for us . The people of Israel : Do not neglect us . We want to return home with a full mind . " <p> In a statement released on Saturday , the Hostages and Missing Families Forum called the video " shocking " and it had provided " definite proof that despite all the rumors there are living hostages , and they are suffering greatly " . <p> " One year after the first and only deal , it 's clear to everyone : returning the hostages is only possible through a deal . After more than 420 days of continuous abuse , starvation , and darkness , the urgency of bringing home all 101 hostages can not be overstated , " the statement reads . <p> Netanyahu 's office said the Israeli prime minister had spoken with Alexander 's family and " really feels the anguish that Edan , the hostages , and their families are going through " . <p> It added that the prime minister reassured the family that " Israel is working resolutely and in every way possible " to bring about the release of the hostages " who are in the hands of the enemy " . <p> Separately , the New Jersey governor , Phil Murphy , said on X that he joined with the Alexander family " in urging both the Biden administration and incoming Trump administration to do everything possible to quickly facilitate an agreement that brings him home safe " .
