<p> Sadly for photographers , the BBC does not explain what a queer lens is , or reveal where we can buy this remarkable piece of technology . That , however , need not detain us today . The bigger issue is that the BBC has included Baptiste on its annual list of the world 's 100 most " inspiring and influential women " . Which means that , of the 100 women , only 99 are actually female . <p> Still , we should n't be surprised . At least one male has been included in the BBC 's " 100 women " list for each of the past nine years . And we all know why . It 's because these lists are n't really about celebrating women . They 're about promoting the BBC 's own favourite progressive causes and ideologies . And this year , it 's more blatant than ever . <p> So , while numerous women are hailed for championing " women 's rights " , no one is hailed for championing women 's rights to have single-sex sports and changing rooms . One woman on the list , Kemi Badenoch , does support such things , but the BBC chooses not to mention that -- it includes her purely for her skin colour ( " the first black woman to lead a major UK political party " ) . Meanwhile , it finds space for a " campaigner for sex workers ' rights " . Because of course nothing is more inspiring to women than prostitution . <p> Inevitably , Gaza looms large -- which means lots of opportunities for the BBC to highlight the barbarity of Israel . Four women are Palestinians : a paediatrician ( " Israeli airstrikes ... did not stop Shireen Abed from taking care of newborn babies in Gaza " ) ; an agricultural engineer ( " Water and sanitation facilities have been damaged or destroyed by Israeli military action " ) ; a journalist ( " She posted a video of herself in her apartment during intense Israeli airstrikes " ) ; and a fashion designer ( " Mjalli has used her garments to tell stories about Palestinians " ) . <p> Meanwhile , three women are Israeli . Note , however , that one of them campaigns for Israel to end its war against Hamas ( " taking part in demonstrations to call for an immediate ceasefire " ) , while another is " an outspoken critic of the Israeli government for failing to find a way to bring the hostages home " . No mention of what the third Israeli thinks . So , to summarise : seven women from Israel/ Palestine , and at least six of them oppose Israel 's actions . <p> On to US politics . Naturally , the BBC applauds an " immigrant rights campaigner " who helped file " criminal charges against Donald Trump " . In an ostensible concession to balance , the BBC does also include a Republican senator . But it 's Susan Collins , who just happens to be a ferocious critic of Trump . No room for Nancy Mace , the pro-Trump Republican who 's campaigning for women 's loos to be female-only . <p> I have n't even mentioned the fact that over 10 per cent of the women are included because they 're " climate pioneers " ( or " ecofeminists " ) . But I think my point is already made . This infuriating list tells you all you need to know about BBC bias . I would n't mind if it had been compiled by The Guardian . If you do n't like The Guardian 's politics , you do n't have to buy it . Yet all of us are required by law to pay for the BBC . And this is what it does with our money . <p> Obviously the BBC will deny that its list is biased . Indeed , it states that the list was " measured " for " due impartiality " .
