<h> Sign up to The JC newsletter <h> It 's not a good time to be Jewish and work in the arts <p> Jews have given so much and yet we are slowly being erased <p> December 03 , 2024 17:09 <p> It 's not a good time to be a Jewish creative . It 's very hard to get Jewish stories off the ground at the moment . It was reported recently that half of British publishers are refusing to take books by authors who are identifiably Jewish , with many mainstream publishing houses deeming Jewish books off-limits . <p> Along with many others , I have experienced the strange responses this year from British broadcasters and production companies to the pitching of Jewish documentary and scripted dramas . It 's never quite an outright " no " , instead feeble excuses such as " it 's not quite the right time " . <p> Last month , I opened the Jewish Film Festival gala night at the Curzon Mayfair in London with ( I hope ) a rousing speech saying how important it is to support the festival , as it is a platform for telling our stories ( both nationally and internationally ) and sharing our experiences with a wider audience -- as well as employing openly Jewish actors writers and crews , many of whom fear they are being marginalised . <p> Michael Etherton , UKJFF 's CEO , has written in the JC of his despair at how many cinemas refused even to get back to him about showing films for the 2024 festival . It is never a downright " no " , just a ghosting , pervasive silence . <p> Jews have given so much and yet we are slowly being erased . I wonder whether Robert Popper or Simon Amstell would have succeeded in getting Friday Night Dinner and Grandma 's House on terrestrial television these days . I would like to think that the brilliant Simon Schama would still get The Story of the Jews commissioned by the BBC in 2024 . But something tells me it 's unlikely . Similarly Simon Sebag Montefiore 's seminal book and documentary Jerusalem : The Biography might not find such a straight move from page to screen . <p> But in a good news story I 'm delighted to say that my Merchant of Venice 1936 is coming back into the West End by popular demand . It was n't just Jewish audiences that made it a sellout at the Criterion Theatre in London and around the country on its national tour ( there is even talk of a European and international life for it ) . <p> It was , rather , the broader message of the play that has cut through . It 's that message I wanted to tell , based on the story of my great-grandmother , an immigrant from the Russian Pale of Settlement . She escaped the pogroms in Mohilev after being sent to England in 1906 as a young girl , and ended up a widow living just off Cable Street in the tenement slums -- coming face-to-face with Oswald Mosley at the Battle of Cable Street in 1936 . <p> The production really does speak to people . Seeing a female Shylock for the first time on stage has unlocked Shakespeare 's play for many , with its beautiful language and biting dark heart . But I think the real reason that the play has been such a success is the legacy of the Battle of Cable Street itself , and the production 's setting against the historical backdrop of English upper-class fascism and Jew hatred , where the mounted police protected Mosley and his black shirt militia on the march of intimidation to the Jewish community in London 's East End . <p> The resonances with what we are seeing on the streets of London today are so clear . Cable Street shows how important unity is in the face of organised hatred , and for people to stand alongside a vulnerable community , forcing a hate march into retreat . <p> In 1936 , the Irish working class , the English working class , the dockers and the small Afro Caribbean community -- ordinary heroes and anti-fascists from all over the country -- stood with their Jewish neighbours at the entrance to Cable Street where Mosley and his army wanted to pass through . Milk floats were overturned . Barricades were set up . <p> Children threw marbles from windows and rubbish onto the fascists ' heads . They could not pass . <p> My grandma always told me that his was the best of England , a British civil rights moment that needed to be recalled again and again ( as it was in our family ) , passed down proudly through the generations . <p> The British Jewish community is vulnerable today . It finds itself under attack and misunderstood , particularly for those of us who work in the arts or media , healthcare , education or the public sector generally , not to mention students and young people . We find ourselves marginalised and alone . <p> Film using original news footage runs throughout our production . Watching 4,000 mounted police protecting the huge swathe of Black Shirts shouting " Get rid of the Yids " at the top of their voices , raising their arms in seig heils , is chilling stuff . But today we see regular marches with hateful banners and slogans , spitting faces contorted with hatred . In the recent incident outside the Jewish community centre JW3 , elderly pensioners and young families were screamed at and intimidated . <p> Supposedly , this is all about Israel , but in reality , it often crosses the line into the same vernacular , images and slogans of 1936 , with Jewish school buses attacked , school children abused by adults and little girls pelted with glass in the East End of London . And that was just this week 's news . <p> The message of The Merchant of Venice 1936 is that whatever people 's opinions are of Israel , of the Gaza war and of the Israeli government , they should nonetheless be able to stand up for a marginalised community under threat . The production is a plea for people to stand together . To share a common humanity . To stand against hatred of any sort . <p> Please come and support us in the West End and on tour . This is our story and it needs to be told .
