<h> ' Baseless ' upcoming Amnesty International report is a new ' blood libel against the Jewish state ' <p> Amnesty International Secretary General Agnes Callamard gives a press conference in Madrid on December 13 , 2022 ( Getty Images ) <p> An upcoming Amnesty International report that claims to have evidence that Israel is " committing genocide " in Gaza has been labelled " baseless " and a " gross distortion " . <p> The report , titled " ' You feel like you are subhuman ' : Israel 's genocide against Palestinians in Gaza " accuses Israel of carrying out acts prohibited under the Genocide Convention " with the specific intent to destroy Palestinians in Gaza " . It is due to be released tomorrow . <p> It comes after Prime Minister Keir Starmer firmly rejected calls to describe Israel 's military action against Hamas in Gaza as genocide at a Prime Minister 's Questions ( PMQs ) in November . <p> In response to allegations about Israel 's conduct made by Independent MP Perry Bar Ayoub Khan , Starmer said : " It would be wise to start a question like that by reference to what happened in October of last year . " <p> He went on : " I 'm well aware of the definition of genocide , and that is why I 've never referred to it as genocide . " <p> Leading human rights lawyer Arsen Ostrovsky has called the report the " latest assault " by Amnesty against Israel , which it accused in 2022 of operating an " apartheid regime " against Palestinians , an allegation that was rejected by its own officials on the ground . <p> " This report , written under the guise of ' international law and human rights ' , is utterly baseless and replete with malicious lies , gross distortions of truth and fabrications of law , " said Ostrovsky , CEO of The International Legal Forum . <p> " To accuse Israel of ' genocide ' in Gaza is a gross and egregious subversion and weaponisation of the very term itself , made even more unconscionable given the October 7 attacks were the largest mass slaughter of Jews since the Holocaust . <p> " This report , which also entirely absolves and whitewashes the heinous actions of Hamas , while abandoning the fate of the remaining hostages still in their captivity , is nothing short of a blood libel against the Jewish state . " <p> Jonathan Turner , Chief Executive of UK Lawyers for Israel ( UKLFI ) , also expressed outrage , telling the JC : " Amnesty International has an extensive history of producing false reports " . <p> He highlighted how Amnesty 's press release for its investigation relies on causality figures produced by Hamas " as if they are reliable , despite analysis by statisticians and other evidence showing fabrication " . <p> He added : " They do not mention that nearly half of the Palestinian casualties are combatants . They do not observe that the ratio of Palestinian civilians to combatants killed is much lower than normal in urban warfare worldwide , despite the enormous difficulties caused for the IDF by Hamas and other terrorists being embedded in , around and underneath densely populated urban areas . " <p> According to Turner , reports from Amnesty should not be given credibility , considering what he considers the NGO 's anti-Israel stance . <p> " Reports from Amnesty International should be given no more credibility than the mediaeval blood libels that Jews poisoned wells and killed Christian children to make unleavened bread for Passover , " he said . <p> " In the short term , these false allegations will endanger Jewish people . In the long term , it is those propagating and circulating them who will end up in the dustbin of history . " <p> Reacting to the report , Lord Leigh of Hurley told the JC : " Amnesty International has a long history of attacking Israel and clearly does n't understand what genocide really is . There is no evidence of a single civilian being targeted . " <p> He added that the NGO does not seem to be concerned about the " calls for genocide by those chanting ' From the River to the Sea ' " . <p> In a JC investigation from 2022 , it was revealed that Amnesty 's own staff had condemned its incendiary report issued that year accusing Israel of " apartheid " . <p> Social media posts from the NGO 's employees in Israel reveal that they judged the dossier to be " problematic " and " flawed " , while former Conservative MP Theresa Villiers accused the NGO of " peddling lies " by using the " apartheid slur " to raise money . <p> Amnesty says it conducted its investigation over nine months , from October 7 2024 to July 2024 . It claims to have gathered evidence through conducting interviews , fieldwork , analysing satellite imagery and the statements of Israeli officials .
