<h> This is the last article you can read this month <h> You can read more article this month <h> You can read more articles this month <h> Sorry your limit is up for this month <p> ART , literature , film and theatre have the power to stimulate our minds , to motivate us to engage and be active . Here 's three from this year that have particularly impacted on me . <p> First the book , Act Now ( Common Sense Policy Group , Manchester University Press , ? 9.99 ) , written by a collective of leading figures from academia , politics and industry , who are utterly convincing in their argument that the time has come in the UK for real change . We need to rebuild from the ground up , not just reignite the economy but reform the whole structure of society . <p> As well as exposing the huge catalogue of failures that have put many lives at the point of collapse such as healthcare , housing and child poverty , every chapter in this book provides recommendations -- a series of sensible , pragmatic ideas based on an achievable vision , and practical actions for change , such as bringing privatised services back into public ownership and community control . Act Now should be a compulsory read for all MPs , in particular our newly elected prime minister . <p> The word " change " was much flouted in the recent election campaign , but the journey has barely started . <p> A second book , Collapse Feminism by Alice Cappelle ( Repeater Books , ? 10.99 ) , opened my eyes to the " manosphere , " a wide variety of internet-based men 's groups who frequently assert the old misconception that men are naturally dominant , promoting nonsensical narratives about women together with objectionable arguments against feminism including claims that women have no role in society outside reproduction , and that women should be denied the right to vote . <p> Misogyny , racism and homophobia are all part of a right-wing fundamentalism which is on the rise , partly due to extremist groups legally purchasing internet space to target young audiences -- and men in particular -- and social media algorithms that decide what content appears on an individual feed and for how long . Amnesty International has warned of a dramatic deterioration worldwide of women 's rights . <p> One of the major events of the year in Liverpool , a city that has one of Britain 's oldest Arab communities , is the Arab Arts Festival . A highlight for me was Oranges And Stones , performed at Unity Theatre , a theatre founded in the 1930s and originally known as Merseyside Left Theatre . <p> Its aim was to promote left-wing theatre focusing on working-class theatre goers , presenting work that challenged accepted norms , crossed boundaries , posed questions . It toured factories and attended political rallies of all kinds such as the Daily Worker Bazaar and the Merseyside Peace Council before moving in 1980 to a permanent base in Liverpool 's Hope Place . <p> The bold and visionary Palestinian Ashtar Theatre 's production of Oranges And Stones , a play without words where actions , story , emotions are acted out dramatically through music and movement , unravelled the legacy of the Balfour Declaration of 1917 . In 1919 , Britain was entrusted with the temporary administration of Palestine , which meant acting on behalf of both Jewish and Arab inhabitants , which it repeatedly failed to do . <p> Oranges and Stones conveyed deeply moving images of occupation and settlement , made even more significant in the wake of the present conflict in Gaza . <p> At the end of the performance , the two Palestinian actors , Tamasha and Shubbak , left the stage floor and invited us to ask questions . In this face-to-face session , I got a real insight into the reality of their lives . <p> " Can we really understand where we are going ? " they said . " What is the future ? They ban us from having a parliament and they accuse us of not being democratic . " Being a Palestinian means being a refugee by default . Worldwide , over 70 per cent of Palestinians live in refugee camps . <p> Symbolising deep issues , it 's a long time since I have seen live theatre as powerful and deeply moving as Oranges And Stones produced by a dynamic Palestinian theatre with a truly progressive global perspective .
