<p> First Minister John Swinney chairs a Cabinet meeting of the SNP Government ( Image : PA ) <p> THE relentless and indiscriminate attacks . The obstruction and denial of life-saving humanitarian aid . The forced displacement of 90% of the population . The incommunicado detention and torture of Palestinians . Israel 's actions have killed and seriously injured tens of thousands , including thousands of children , often wiping out multiple generations of families . Gaza 's water , sanitation and healthcare systems have been destroyed , and people are being forced to live in conditions that expose them to a slow and calculated death . <p> The hell and destruction that Israel has unleashed on Palestinians in Gaza since the deadly and horrifying Hamas attacks of October 7 , 2023 has been brazen , continuous , and at a level and speed not seen in any other conflict in the 21st century . And it has taken place against the backdrop of a decades-long unlawful occupation and system of apartheid . <p> And that has serious implications for countries around the world , including our own . We can no longer watch on as Israel acts with impunity . As a state party to the Genocide Convention , the UK Government has a legal obligation to help prevent genocide . That must now mean immediately ending all arms transfers to Israel . It must mean pressing for multilateral and targeted sanctions at the UN Security Council against Israeli and Hamas officials implicated in crimes under international law . And it must mean supporting the ongoing International Criminal Court investigation into Palestine and executing any ICC arrest warrants , including for Benjamin Netanyahu . <p> But there are also implications for the Scottish Government . Only two weeks ago , we at Amnesty called on Scottish ministers to conduct an urgent review into Scottish Enterprise funding for arms companies . Freedom of Information disclosures to us from Scottish Enterprise and the Scottish Government showed that ? 3 million of Scottish Enterprise grants have been given to arms companies since 2023 , with those companies seemingly waived through Scottish Enterprise 's human rights due diligence checks . Despite many of them being linked to states guilty of carrying out international humanitarian law breaches , including Israel , not one has ever failed one of Scottish Enterprise 's human rights checks . <p> Concerningly , the disclosures also showed that the level of checks performed on a company is dependent only on the level of financial support it receives , rather than the company 's involvement with or links to human rights abuses . This casts serious doubt on a process that should be designed to protect against human rights abuses and not to turn a blind eye to companies whose activities are linked to such abuses . <p> Protesters outside the Leonardo factory in Edinburgh last month ( Image : Siobhan Chalmers ) One of the companies awarded Scottish public money is Leonardo , manufacturers of the precision targeting systems used in F-35 jets , which are being used daily in Gaza to bombard the population . The numbers of dead and injured in Gaza can seem so vast as to almost become abstract , but it is F-35 jets that likely carried out the air strike on December 14 , 2023 that killed the parents , sister , wife and three children of Ahmad Nasman . Ahmad described to Amnesty how " my body survived but my spirit died with my children , it was crushed under the rubble with them " . <p> It is Israel that is responsible for the devastation wrought on people like Ahmad and his family . And it is the UK Government that is responsible for arms exports from our shores . But the Scottish Government must now finally acknowledge that -- if Scottish Enterprise 's human rights checks routinely waive through funding for arms companies providing arms to a state carrying out genocide -- then those checks are simply not credible . At best , they are insufficient . At worst , they risk complicity with the most serious of international humanitarian law violations . <p> The Scottish Government must heed this wake-up call , live up to its legal and moral obligations , and urgently review both Scottish Enterprise 's funding of arms companies and the human rights checks that allow that funding to take place . In the context of an ongoing genocide , there is simply no other option . <h> Why are you making commenting on The National only available to subscribers ? <p> We know there are thousands of National readers who want to debate , argue and go back and forth in the comments section of our stories . We 've got the most informed readers in Scotland , asking each other the big questions about the future of our country . <p> Unfortunately , though , these important debates are being spoiled by a vocal minority of trolls who are n't really interested in the issues , try to derail the conversations , register under fake names , and post vile abuse . <p> So that 's why we 've decided to make the ability to comment only available to our paying subscribers . That way , all the trolls who post abuse on our website will have to pay if they want to join the debate -- and risk a permanent ban from the account that they subscribe with . <p> The conversation will go back to what it should be about -- people who care passionately about the issues , but disagree constructively on what we should do about them . Let 's get that debate started ! <p> Callum Baird , Editor of The National <h> Comments : Our rules <p> We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues . The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege , not a right , however , and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused. <h> follow us <p> This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation 's Editors ' Code of Practice . If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then please contact the editor here . If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact IPSO here
