<h> ' Labour should fund massive council house-building programme ' <p> As we enter the cold winter months many senior citizens will have a choice to make again this year , with soaring fuel bills due to rise again in January 2025 can they afford to eat , and heat their homes ? <p> Many will not be able to do both . <p> The Labour Party before the general election predicted an additional 4000 senior citizens would die of hypothermia if the last Tory Government scrapped the Winter Heating Allowance this winter , what did Labour and our local MP Douglas McAllister do ? They scrapped the Winter Fuel Allowance for 11 million senior citizens many of whom reside in West Dunbartonshire , within weeks of gaining office in May 2024 . Hypocrites . <p> No money for our senior citizens to heat their homes but Labour are giving the fascist regime in Ukraine ? 3b to bomb the elderly in Russia . <p> Labour also continue to sell weapons to the Zionist Government in Israel to bomb civilians in Gaza with 45,000 already killed , many of them women and children yet Sir Keir Starmer comes out with the same mealy mouthed defence , Israel has the right to defend itself . Starmer as a lawyer knows it is the occupied people , the Palestinians , under International Law who have the right to defend themselves , not Israel who is the occupier . <p> A rough estimate is it will cost ? 650m to defray the increase in National Insurance payments for the 32 councils in Scotland and other public sector staff . Will the Labour Government compensate the public sector in Scotland for this unbudgeted burden ? <p> WDC has over 4000 applicants on the housing waiting list . The council only has 10,000 homes in total . The council has declared a housing crisis as many other council 's in Scotland have done due to the shortage of public sector homes for rent . Homelessness is on the rise across Scotland . <p> If the Labour Government are keen to grow the economy then a good start would be to initiate and fund a massive council house-building programme across Scotland to deal with the homeless crisis and the shortage of suitable council homes across the country . This would create jobs and increase tax revenues . <p> This would be investment based on real desperate need in our country , for the tens of thousands languishing on council waiting lists for years for a suitable rented home . <h> Comments : Our rules <p> We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues . The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege , not a right , however , and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused. <h> follow us <p> This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation 's Editors ' Code of Practice . If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then please contact the editor here . If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact IPSO here
