<p> Hello . It looks like you 're using an ad blocker that may prevent our website from working properly . To receive the best experience possible , please make sure any ad blockers are switched off , or add https : **25;2541;TOOLONG to your trusted sites , and refresh the page . <h> Switzerland votes ' oui ' to Eurovision <p> It was confirmed by referendum on November 24 that Basel will indeed be hosting the next Eurovision contest . The Swiss singer Nemo won it this year back in May , and the winning country automatically gets the right to host the next contest -- but nothing can be taken for granted in Switzerland . <p> It 's not that Switzerland does not care about Eurovision . The competition is multilingual , middle of the road musically , and tending towards neutrality -- it 's Switzerland incarnate . When Nemo won , there was a quiet sense of elation in Switzerland . It was the country 's third victory and the first since 1988 , when the competition was won for Switzerland by a certain C ? line Dion ( yes , she is Canadian ) . <p> But the problems started with Nemo 's 2024 victory . Eurovision has become increasingly political . In 2023 , the competition became a four-hour protest against Russia 's invasion of Ukraine , and this year there were demonstrations outside the venue in Malm ? over Gaza . <p> There were three Swiss contenders to host the next contest : Geneva , the most international city ; Zurich , its largest city ; or Bern , its capital . <p> The choice of Basel , a city a little larger than Oxford , was probably a good one . Basel has a long history of tolerance , having hosted many exiles over the years , including Nietzsche , Jung , Karl Jaspers and Hermann Hesse . <p> Back in September , the legislature of the Canton of Basel approved a sum of ? 30m of funding and in most countries that would have been the end of it . Not in Switzerland . There was already resistance to Eurovision being held here and the opposition was moving faster than the government . <p> In July , the right wing party , the Federal Democratic Union ( FDU ) , announced that they would force a referendum , whatever the choice of city . It 's a fringe party that wins little over 1% of the vote in federal elections and pledges to uphold Christian values . It holds just two seats in the National Council , one of the two houses of the federal parliament . <p> The party argued that not only is Basel 's financial commitment to Eurovision a total waste of money , but also that Eurovision discriminates against Christianity . <p> As an example , it cited the case of a previous Swiss entry by the Salvation Army group that was not allowed to use this name , and accused the competition of " actively supporting occult and satanic performances " . In this regard , they pointed to Bambi Thug , the group that represented Ireland in 2024 . Bambi Thug are probably grateful for the extra publicity . <p> Forcing a referendum at the canton level is not too difficult , as you simply need to collect 2,000 signatures in support of your motion . As all the signatories had to be local , the FDU organised supporters from around the country to go to Basel to sign up . On October 28 , they submitted their petition with more than twice the required number of names . <p> The canton of Basel-Stadt ( actually it is a half canton ) then added this referendum to several others scheduled for a vote on November 24 . In the event , Basel 's population were unconvinced by the arguments against Eurovision . Two-thirds voted in favour of going ahead with the funding . <p> This tussle over Eurovision highlights something fundamental about Switzerland . On the one hand , the federation has always been liberal , creative and even anarchic , as demonstrated in its being the home of the Dada art movement , the forerunner of Surrealism . <p> On the other hand , Switzerland did n't give women the vote until 1971 . The country somehow weds these two contradictory strands in a somewhat uncomfortable union through its decentralised , federalised system of direct democracy - -- both elements constantly twirling around each other . The result is a country that 's simultaneously both fundamentally liberal and conservative at the same time . <p> Ivan Hutnik lives and writes in and out of Chablais in Swiss Romande <p> Hello . It looks like you 're using an ad blocker that may prevent our website from working properly . To receive the best experience possible , please make sure any ad blockers are switched off , or add https : **25;2568;TOOLONG to your trusted sites , and refresh the page .
