<p> Hundreds of academics have written to Lord Hague of Richmond , the newly elected Oxford chancellor , saying that an Oxford Union debate which praised the October 7 attacks on Israel broke the law . <p> Professor Sir Vernon Bogdanor , ? Baroness Deech and Professor Peter Hacker are among the signatories of an open letter to Hague , who was elected the new chancellor of Oxford University last week . Hague confirmed to The Times yesterday that he had ? reviewed the open letter and said he " shares the concerns of the signatories " . <p> The union , which is independent from the university , debated the motion " This house believes Israel is an apartheid state responsible for genocide " . <p> One speaker described the attack on Israel as " heroism " and the letter ? criticises the " inflammatory rhetoric , aggressive behaviour and intimidation " at the event last Thursday . <p> Jonathan Sacerdoti , the opposing speaker and the son of a Holocaust survivor ? , wrote a piece for The Spectator accusing the union of " disgracing ? itself " by giving voice to " the forces of bigotry , hatred and mob rule " . He said that the audience was an openly hostile " baying mob " that interrupted every pro-Israel speaker with jeers and abuse . <h> Advertisement <p> A pro-Israel activist was ejected from the chamber after dismissing audience members as " terrorist supporters " . <p> The signatories said : " We unequivocally condemn the incendiary remarks made by some speakers in support of Hamas and terrorist violence . Such statements are not only morally reprehensible but also in clear violation of the law . " <p> Hundreds of academics have written to Lord Hague of Richmond , the newly elected Oxford chancellor <p> OFFICE OF WILLIAM HAGUE/PA <p> It ends by saying : " Let Thursday 's debate be a turning point . Let it serve as a reminder that while disagreement is inevitable in discussions of such gravity , the manner in which we engage is just as important as the ideas we share . Anything less is a betrayal of the university 's values and a disservice to its community . " <p> The letter said that the debate was a " failure on all counts " and suggested that it subjected Jewish students to antisemitism and intimidation . It said : " Debate should challenge ideas , not debase and attack entire communities . Free speech is vital but it must be exercised responsibly and within the bounds of the law . " <p> Hague said : " I have seen the open ? letter and , from what I have heard of last week 's debate ... share the concerns of the signatories . When I take office as chancellor ... I will do my utmost to ? encourage a culture of debate that will at times be fierce and strongly felt but should always be respectful and never intimidating . <h> Advertisement <p> " I will use future discussions with students and others to help ensure Oxford is an open and inclusive place for both academic excellence and free , civilised debate . " <p> The Union for Jewish Students and the Oxford Jewish Society expressed " deep concern " about the debate , ? saying that Jewish spaces have been vandalised and alleging instances of antisemitism . <p> In a joint statement , they claimed that the union debate organisers " did not create an avenue for education or constructive dialogue but rather capitalised on and fanned the flames of the tense and divided atmosphere on campus , to gain attention and publicity " . <p> They said : " This left Jewish students feeling alienated and unsafe at a time when they were already facing an unprecedented rise in antisemitism . Recently , a Jewish student space was vandalised with a swastika , protests have featured chants such as " globalise the intifada " and " from Oxford to Gaza , long live the intifada , " and visiting speakers have been greeted by shouts of " Zionists are not welcome in Oxford .
