<h> How Britain should navigate the new nuclear age <h> Share <h> How Britain should navigate the new nuclear age <p> The dawn of a third nuclear age demands a ' national and collective sense of purpose ... leadership and a willingness to act ' . That was the message of the head of Britain 's armed forces when he delivered his annual lecture to the Royal United Services Institute this week . <p> Admiral Sir Tony Radakin has been chief of the Defence Staff for three years -- usually a full term -- but was asked earlier this year to stay in post for a further year , until autumn 2025 . His tenure has seen Russia 's invasion of Ukraine , the 7 October Hamas attacks on Israel and the resulting conflicts in Gaza and Lebanon , Iran 's ballistic missile strikes on Israel and the Houthi campaign against commercial shipping in the Red Sea . It has not been , in the language of the Royal Navy in which Radakin serves , a quiet watch . <p> This week he warned that , after a period marked by disarmament and counter-proliferation , the world has now entered a new age of nuclear competition . Previous international agreements have weakened , nuclear technology is advancing and there are now what Radakin called ' multiple and concurrent dilemmas ' : essentially , more people with greater access to nuclear weapons . The temperature of the geopolitical situation has been raised by Vladimir Putin 's threats to use tactical nuclear weapons in Ukraine and intimidatory changes to Russia 's nuclear doctrine . <p> Is Radakin channelling Private Frazer of Dad 's Army , telling us we 're doomed ? Or do we need to take a deep breath and reach a careful but calm assessment of the state of international relations ? <h> Most popular <h> Can Meghan and Harry stoop any lower ? <p> Nuclear weapons are unprecedented in their destructive capacity : by the 1960s , the Pentagon 's single integrated operating plan anticipated that an initial nuclear exchange between the United States and the Soviet Union would kill 500 million people . They are also extraordinary in being almost entirely unused . The first atomic bomb , developed by the Manhattan project , was tested on 16 July 1945 ; the 15-ton Little Boy was dropped on Hiroshima on 6 August followed by the 21-ton Fat Man on Nagasaki on 9 August . No nuclear weapon has ever been used in anger again , 79 years on . <p> Instead , nuclear weapons exist as a last resort , a powerful deterrent but also , quixotically , they are a capability which has failed in its purpose if it is ever used . A nuclear conflict can never be ' won ' in a meaningful sense , as Annie Jacobsen explained in painstaking detail in her recent book , Nuclear War : A Scenario . What matters is how the threat of these weapons is presented and understood , and what assessment is made by others of each country 's likelihood of using them . <p> This point was a key theme of Radakin 's address . Russia 's threats , exercises and simulations have been ' designed to coerce us from taking the action required to maintain stability ' in Ukraine , while Nato 's nuclear umbrella remains a powerful guarantee of Europe 's security . <p> There is only a remote chance of a significant direct attack or invasion by Russia on the United Kingdom . And that is the same for the whole of Nato . Russia knows the response would be overwhelming , whether conventional or nuclear . The strategy of deterrence by Nato works and is working . <p> This means that a central part of our military capability is not only represented by equipment and manpower , but also through the attitude and determination the United Kingdom projects -- and how that is perceived by potential adversaries . The chief of the Defence Staff argued that our resolve has to be credible , which means we must have the resources and personnel to take military action when necessary . This resolve also has to be demonstrable ; there is a degree of provocation to which we must respond . That ' keeps us safe even in a more dangerous world ' . <p> This is not a simple message . Radakin is not telling the people of Britain that the bulldog spirit and a stiff upper lip will keep us safe . There are nine states with nuclear capabilities , of which Russia , China and North Korea have a loose alliance and competing interests to those of Nato and the West . <p> China has repeatedly played down the nuclear option . North Korea , the secretive and paranoid Hermit Kingdom , is a wild card because of the dominance of its unpredictable ruler Kim Jong Un . Russia is rationalist but bullying , and Vladimir Putin , a KGB officer to his fingertips , lives and breathes feint and deception . <p> There is no failsafe deterrent against nuclear war . The prospect remains real but remote . Radakin has been clear about ways in which we can make it less likely : better , larger , more lethal armed forces , underpinned by a national resolve , military and civilian , to deploy them where necessary to defend our interests . Reaching that stage remains a huge task , and the question now is whether we -- the government , the political classes , the electorate as a whole -- are capable of achieving it . I hope so . The alternative is no alternative at all . <h> Share <h> How Britain should navigate the new nuclear age <h> Read next <p> The last time I took my wife to watch Millwall play a home game , a gentleman a few rows in front of us took grave exception to the behaviour of an opposing player and identified him , very loudly , as the author of The Critique of Pure Reason -- repeatedly and with venom . Having vented his
