<p> Last week , apparently catching the world by surprise , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) rebels launched a surprise offensive against government-controlled positions in northwestern Syria . Within 72 hours , incredibly , they had expelled Assad 's troops from large swathes of Aleppo . HTS 's triumph restored a rebel presence to Aleppo for the first time in eight years and paved the way for the unfreezing of the Syrian Civil War . <p> Predictably , Russian fighter jets -- supporting their ally , Assad -- responded by bombing rebel-held areas of Aleppo and Idlib . Iran-aligned Kataib Hezbollah and Fatemiyoun militias also joined the fight on the dictator 's behalf . <p> Regardless of what Russia and Iran do next , HTS 's attack has shattered the mirage of authoritarian stability that allows Assad to repress Syrians with impunity . For Putin , Assad 's vulnerability is an especially bitter pill to swallow . Russian jets and Wagner Group mercenaries arrived in Syria in 2015 and helped Assad turn the tide of the civil war . It was brutual , but effective . <p> The Kremlin successfully advertised its Syrian model of counterinsurgency to African countries like Central African Republic and Mali that faced spiraling threats of transnational terrorism . The decisive success of Russia 's military intervention convinced its historic foe Saudi Arabia to engage with Moscow and immeasurably bolstered Russian great power status in the Middle East . <p> But Russia 's triumph in Syria was always premised on myths . Although Putin insisted that Russia played a vital role in decapitating the Islamic State of Iraq and Levant ( ISIS ) and al-Qaeda , more than 90% of its airstrikes targeted Syrian rebels who were unaffiliated with either terror group . The February 2018 Battle of Khasham irreparably tarnished the Wagner Group 's image of strength , as 200 of its mercenaries perished at the hands of the US military . <p> Now the biggest myth of all , the stabilisation of Syria , has been eviscerated . <p> To add salt to Russia 's wounds , Assad 's travails are partly the product of Moscow 's own grave miscalculations . Russia 's full-scale invasion of Ukraine forced to incrementally divert military resources from Syria . Su-25 fighter jets and a S-300 air defense system were redeployed to the Ukraine frontlines . As experienced Russian forces in Syria were reassigned to Ukraine and some Wagner Group mercenaries did not integrate with the Russian Armed Forces after Yevgeny Prigozhin 's ill-fated June 2023 mutiny , the Kremlin 's capacity to protect Assad diminished . <p> Assad turned to Iranian forces to replace the departed Russian troops . Everything seemed stable until Hamas 's October 7 terrorist attack against Israel and the outbreak of the Gaza War . Israel regularly struck the Damascus and Aleppo airports , as they provided infrastructural support for Iranian arms smuggling , and Russia 's engagement with Hamas and Hezbollah destroyed established communications channels with Israel on strikes on Syria . <p> Russia diverted scarce personnel to nine observation points in the Syrian-controlled Golan Heights and IRGC commanders repeatedly found themselves in the line of fire . This created a security vacuum for HTS to exploit . <p> While the West cheers on Russia 's miscues , they do not paper over the disastrous consequences of its disengagement from Syria . After Assad brutally recaptured Aleppo in 2016 , the West abandoned the Syrian rebels that it had supported since 2011 . The US retained economic sanctions against Syria and thwarted reconstruction investments by signing Caesar Syrian Civilian Protections Act in 2019 . These measures were inadequately enforced . Assad 's allies created a labyrinth of front companies to shield themselves from Syria 's economic collapse and retain power . <p> The West 's attitude of resignation encouraged its Arab partners to give up the fight against Assad . As Egypt , the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain normalised relations with Damascus , Assad escaped from regional isolation . The final straw was Assad 's reinstatement in the Arab League , which ushered the path for Saudi Arabia 's reconciliation with Syria and a potential Syria-Turkey thaw . <p> As the Syrian opposition 's moderate core disintegrated and its one-time allies deserted its cause , HTS has assumed the torch of the Arab Spring revolutionaries who so bravely defied Assad in 2011 . To cede the anti-Assad fight to a group that has been intertwined with al-Qaeda for most of its existence and champions " Popular Jihad " is a humiliating capitulation for the West . <p> As Syria 's semi-frozen civil war threatens to reignite , the West has an unexpected chance to rectify these historical mistakes . The time is now for the West to develop some moral fiber in the face of HTS terrorism and Assad 's brutality .
