<h> French PM Michel Barnier loses no-confidence vote as government collapses in fresh crisis for Macron <p> Tom Watling and Chris Stevenson <p> 4 December 2024 at 3:30 pm*4-min read <p> Michel Barnier has become the shortest-serving French prime minister in modern history as opposition parties have ousted his government in a historic no-confidence vote -- which hands president Emmanuel Macron a fresh political crisis . <p> Mr Barnier 's government is the first to be forced out by such a vote in more than 60 years , with the trigger being a clash over the country 's budget for next year . A majority of 331 voted in support of the motion to remove him ; a minimum of 288 was needed . <p> Opposition parties tabled the motion after Mr Barnier controversially used special constitutional powers to force through a budget without a vote . The former Brexit negotiator was only appointed by Mr Macron in September . <p> The National Assembly , France 's lower house of parliament , is deeply fractured , with no single party holding a majority . It comprises three major blocs : Mr Macron 's centrist allies , the left-wing coalition New Popular Front , and the far-right National Rally ( RN ) . Both opposition blocs , typically at odds , have united against Mr Barnier , accusing him of imposing austerity measures and failing to address citizens ' needs . <p> " We have arrived at the moment of truth , " far-right National Rally leader Marine Le Pen told parliament as the debate on the no-confidence motions started . And hard-left France Unbowed MP Eric Coquerel told Mr Barnier : " You will be the first prime minister to be censured since Georges Pompidou in 1962 . " <p> Fellow LFI member Mathilde Panot demanded that Mr Macron also resign , though the French president has insisted he will stay until his term ends in 2027 . <p> The genesis of this latest crisis was the snap election called by Mr Macron in the summer that led to a hung parliament . While the left-wing alliance topped the July poll and National Rally was the single party with the most votes , Mr Macron 's centrists eventually struck a deal with the centre-right and conservatives to form a government . <p> The president spent weeks in drawn-out talks with figures from across the political spectrum , before eventually settling on Michel Barnier to head a government . This time , Mr Macron is said to be aiming to install a new prime minister quickly , three sources told Reuters . <p> One of the sources said Mr Macron hoped to have someone in place as soon as Saturday , when a high-powered guest list , including US president-elect Donald Trump , is due to gather in Paris for the reopening of Notre-Dame Cathedral . " Nothing has been decided , " the Elysee said in response to a request for comment . <p> That would avoid leaving a hole at the heart of the European Union at a time when Germany is also weakened and in election mode , just weeks before Mr Trump re-enters the White House . <p> However , any new prime minister would face the same challenges as Mr Barnier in getting bills , including the 2025 budget , adopted by the divided parliament . There can be no new parliamentary election before July . <p> In a TV interview on Tuesday , Mr Barnier said he still believed his government could survive and called on MPs to act with " responsibility " and think of " the country 's best interest . " <p> " The situation is very difficult economically , socially , fiscally and financially , " he said , speaking on national television TF1 and France 2 on Tuesday evening . " If the no-confidence motion passes , everything will be more difficult and everything will be more serious . " <p> But RN chief Jordan Bardella said such optimism showed that the government was " completely out of touch with what is happening in the country " . <p> " Stop pretending the lights will go out , " Mr Coquerel said , noting the possibility of an emergency law being adopted to levy taxes from 1 January based on this year 's rules . " The special law will prevent a shutdown . It will allow us to get through the end of the year by delaying the budget by a few weeks . " <p> The tumult that has followed Mr Macron 's decision to call a snap election in the summer has diminished his standing at home and abroad . Since then , France 's CAC 40 stock market index has dropped nearly 10 per cent and is the heaviest loser among top EU economies . <p> Mr Macron 's term as president runs until mid-2027 and he can not be forced out by parliament , but the RN and the hard left have already been saying he should resign as he faces his biggest crisis in years . <p> As he lacks a majority in parliament , Mr Macron 's opponents could shoot down one pick for prime minister after another . <p> Ms Le Pen says a government reshuffle stands little chance of long-term success , while a dissolution of parliament is constitutionally not possible before July -- 12 months after the last election -- leaving only one option : Mr Macron steps down . <p> However , the constitution gives extensive powers to the president in crisis situations . He can call referendums and has the admittedly extreme possibility of invoking emergency " full powers " under Article 16 , drafted by the founders of the Fifth Republic with wartime in mind . The president has responded to demands to resign by pledging to fulfil his role " with all my energy , to the last second " . <p> ( Bloomberg ) -- French lawmakers will hold a no-confidence vote Wednesday , with far-right leader Marine Le Pen expected to join forces with a left-wing coalition to topple the government.Most Read from BloombergAs Wars Rage , Cities Face a Dark New Era of Urban DestructionRiyadh Metro Partially Opens in Bid to Ease City 's Traffic JamsPrime Minister Michel Barnier used a constitutional mechanism on Monday to force through an unpopular budget , leading to a leftist coalition and Le Pen 's National Ral <p> STORY : Expectations that French Prime Minister Michel Barnier 's government will collapse this week , kept investors on high alert on Tuesday ( December 3 ) . The euro languished close to a one-week low in morning trade.Barnier 's budget seeks to rein in the euro zone 's second-biggest economy 's spiralling public deficit through $62.9 billion in tax hikes and spending cuts.He 's expected to face no-confidence motions on Wednesday , or possibly Thursday.The country 's finance minister , Antoine Armand , on Tuesday ( December 3 ) said France is at a critical juncture due to uncertainty over the country 's budget.He told a French television station that politicians had a responsibility " not to plunge the country into uncertainty " with a no-confidence vote.The vote could lead to the first French government to be forced out by a no-confidence vote since 1962 . Sylvain Bersinger is Chief Economist at Asteres Consulting . " What makes France different in Europe is really this political instability for about the last six months . So if the government falls , which is becoming more and more likely now , that will certainly bring a rise in interest rates on French sovereign debt , of how much it 's difficult to say , but the trend upwards seems quite likely . " The budget has been strongly opposed by politicians on both the left and far right.And collectively , they have enough votes to topple Barnier.National Rally leader Marine Le Pen has already confirmed her party would vote for the left-wing coalition 's no-confidence bill as well as her own.If the no-confidence vote does indeed go through , Barnier would have to tender his resignation . <p> France 's far-right party of Marine Le Pen is expected to join forces with a left-wing coalition to topple the government of Prime Minister Michel Barnier in a no-confidence vote . &amp;nbsp ; Meanwhile , &amp;nbsp ; President &; ... Macron&amp;nbsp ; called on lawmakers to reject the vote that could throw the country into further political turmoil . Bloomberg 's Kriti Gupta reports from Paris . <p> President Emmanuel Macron completed his state visit to Saudi Arabia on Wednesday as France 's government faced being ousted in a no-confidence vote.The first French state visit to Saudi Arabia since 2006 came against the backdrop of a major political crisis that threatens to force out the minority government of Prime Minister Michel Barnier . <p> Far-right leader Marine Le Pen displayed the influence she wields on France by toppling the government but she is also facing a trial that risks banishing her from politics for good.That gave Le Pen unprecedented power over French politics , which she used by backing a no-confidence vote that toppled the government of Prime Minister Michel Barnier late Wednesday . <p> Gaza 's civil defence agency said the Israeli military issued evacuation calls Wednesday as it heavily bombarded the northern town of Beit Lahia as part of an intensive two-month operation. - ' Dozens of bodies ' - The military frequently issues evacuation calls in northern Gaza where , since October 6 , it has pressed a major offensive it says is aimed at stopping Hamas from regrouping . <p> Watch live as Keir Starmer faces Kemi Badenoch at PMQs on Wednesday ( 4 December ) as his reset Brexit plans suffer another blow . The prime minister looks set to lose another key ally in a blow to his plans to reset the UK 's post-Brexit relationship with the European Union . Michel Barnier looks likely to be ousted as French prime minister on Wednesday in a no-confidence motion after he pushed through a controversial budget without a vote .
