<h> Philanthropist son of Holocaust survivors defunds Cambridge over ' infestation ' of anti-Israel bias <p> Activists from Cambridge for Palestine set up a Gaza encampment for more than 100 days outside King 's College ( Credit : Felix Armstrong ) <p> A Jewish philanthropist has defunded Cambridge University over what he describes as an " infestation " of anti-Israel bias that has taken hold of the university since October 7 . <p> Ivan Berkowitz , an American corporate executive , withdrew a ? 315,000 donation to fund a book project at Trinity College , his alma mater , accusing it of failing to properly investigate the vandalism of a Lord Balfour painting in March . <p> Speaking to the JC , Berkowitz condemned the university for its " fixation on elevating wokeness at the expense of the Jewish community " , adding that the same " virus " had taken hold in Cambridge 's law faculty , which he accused of shutting down debate on the Gaza conflict . <p> Speaking about the vandalism of the Balfour painting at Trinity , he said : " There 's a video of the occurrence , and the claim is still that there 's not sufficient evidence . " <p> Berkowitz , who is the son of Holocaust survivors , said he doubted that the " forensics at Trinity are so bad " that they can not identify the perpetrator , considering the number of " Nobel laureates sitting at high table in science and physics " . <p> In March , Palestine Action posted online a video of an activist slashing the 1914 portrait and vandalising it with red paint , but there have been no arrests and the investigation is ongoing . <p> The philanthropist was also dismayed at reports claiming that the Master of Trinity , Dame Sally Davies , was considering divesting the college from arms companies linked to Israel following pressure from pro-Palestine student activist groups . <p> A Palestine Action activist destroys a 1914 painting of Lord Balfour <p> Berkowitz , who gained a PhD in law at Trinity College , Cambridge , took particular aim at the activities of the Lauterpacht Centre for International Law ( LCIC ) , of which he is an honorary fellow . <p> On friday , the centre was due to host a panel discussion entitled " A Discussion on International Law and Palestine : Responsibility , Reparations &amp; Reconciliation " , which Berkowitz said was likely to take an unbalanced approach to the conflict . <p> The panel features guest speakers Penny Green , who in 2016 tweeted denials of Labour 's antisemitism , and has repeatedly called for Israel to be boycotted ; and Makram Khoury-Machool , who eulogised the architect of October 7 , Yahya Sinwar , as " a fierce fighting leader who proudly defended his nation until the last breath and drop of blood and presented a role model for future generations " . <p> Berkowitz has funded a three-year , ? 400,000 donation to the Lauterpacht Centre but now says that he is reviewing his philanthropic association with the organisation . <p> " It 's crucial for me to deal with the rot that has infested the place . It 's like when a house first sees the infestation of a particular thing that creates an infection , like mould . There is mould already , but you can deal with it , you can scrape it off , you can try to work with it , unless it becomes too powerful , " he said . <p> Berkowitz 's attack on Cambridge followed the resignation of major Jewish arts patron Candida Gertler from all her voluntary positions within UK arts institutions after she was targeted by a boycott campaign over her links to Israel . <p> His ? 315,000 donation to Trinity College had been due to fund the Rabbinic Book Project at the college 's Wren Library , which aims to bring to light under-studied works central to Jewish history and preserve them in Cambridge . <p> " I would have loved to be identified with something so special and something that is so representative of what the Wren Library stands for , which is preservation of and study of archival material that is unavailable elsewhere , " said Berkowitz , but said he felt compelled " to make a statement " and withdraw himself from the project . <p> Speaking about the law centre , Berkowitz said its founder , the Jewish giant of international legal scholarship and Zionist Sir Elihu Lauterpacht , would be " turning in his grave " if he knew about its present activities . <p> Lauterpacht was the son of Hersch Lauterpacht , the British international lawyer and human rights activist who developed the concept of crimes against humanity . <p> ? The centre was recently directed by Eyal Benvenisti , an Israeli attorney and Whewell Professor of International Law at Cambridge until earlier this year . Speaking about the law department , Berkowitz said : " Many of the younger professors are very ' woke ' when it comes to Israel . They do not side with the Israeli view , and they do n't side with the idea that Israel has a right to defend itself . " <p> The new director of the Lauterpacht centre is Professor Sandesh Sivakumaran , and Berkowitz wrote to him about the planned debate on " law and Palestine " saying : " As a pillar of the academic study of international law , I 'm surprised to see that LCIL appears to have shut down dialogue on such a sensitive subject . The roster of speakers seems to exclude those who would represent the merits of an alternative view that should be heard in this case . <p> " The very structure of the event , which is framed as a compassionate and international law-focused symposium , minimises the necessary rigorous attempt to balance such a fragile discussion . " <p> Sivakumaran told Berkowitz that " this is obviously a situation on which it is difficult to find uniformity of views " and " my sense is that there is no possible line-up that would satisfy everyone as to its composition " . <p> " I 'm disappointed , " said Berkowitz . " It 's not a comfortable feeling to know that the environment has so changed -- in law schools in general but in this specific place -- where the dangerous notions conveyed will permanently affect the beliefs and practices of the lawyers who will come out of these places . Clearly , you have to blame the academy , " he said , calling the anti-Israel bias a " virus " . <p> Despite his upset , Berkowitz retains an attachment to the university where he still delivers lectures every Michaelmas term in his specialist area of law . <p> " I have very strong feelings about what they taught me and the experiences I had there , I do n't want to dismiss that , " he said . He recalls his college days fondly , and noted how the " place is so lit up with genius , it takes your breath way " . In the US , Berkowitz is considering withdrawing his funding for Harvard Medical School , where he set up a collaboration between the American Ivy League and the Clalit Research Institute in Israel . <p> Named the Ivan and Francesca Berkowitz Family Living Laboratory Collaboration , the Harvard project brings together biomedical researchers , clinicians , and data scientists from the United States and Israel to revolutionise treatments , care , and prevention , and even helped Pfizer in developing its Covid vaccine . <p> " The underlying reason for doing all these things was for my wife and I to subtly bring attention to the good that comes out of Israel , " said Berkowitz , who believes " conventional ways to fight antisemitism " , such as building museums , " are useless and financially wasteful " . He added : " another museum is not going to do the job . I have yet to hear from a group of high school or college kids that visited a tour at the museum come back and say ' Oh , how can I possibly be anti-Jewish after all of this ? ' " <p> By considering withdrawing funding to Harvard , Berkowitz is following in the footsteps of more than 1,600 alumni who vowed to withhold donations last year , including billionaire Len Blavatnik who donated more than $270 ? million to the Ivy League university . <p> The final straw for the donors after mounting antisemitism on campus post-October 7 was the congressional testimony of former president Claudine Gay in December , who failed to condemn calls for the genocide of Jews as harassment , or state that Jewish students had the right to feel safe on university grounds . <p> In August , a federal judge in Boston ruled that Harvard University had " failed its Jewish students " and must face a lawsuit over campus Jew-hate that arose following Hamas 's October 7 attack . Explaining his passion for defending Israel and combatting antisemitism , Berkowitz brought up the fact that he and wife descend from Holocaust survivors . <p> " In each case , they did n't escape the war , they survived the war , " he said . " My wife 's father and mother were in Auschwitz and survived Auschwitz , which in itself is traumatic . And my mother survived underground in Budapest by having a Christian name that she bought off a funeral director of a dead person , and my father was in labour camp . " <p> Even though his parents did n't speak extensively about their experiences , " it 's in my guts " , he said . <p> The donor is also " disappointed " and " crestfallen " over what has happened at New York University ( NYU ) , to which he pledged $800,000 25 years ago to fund the Berkowitz Fellowship at its law school . <p> NYU was one of the many US colleges overrun by pro-Palestine campus protests last spring . In July , the university settled a discrimination lawsuit brought by Jewish students , who claimed that their peers at NYU burned an Israeli flag , made throat-slitting gestures and yelled " Gas the Jews " at a group of students participating in an Israel vigil . <p> Berkowitz is happy for the fellowship to continue , which each year is awarded to a senior scholar whose area of research addresses issues from a broad spectrum of Jewish learning and civilization . <p> But when recently asked if he would take part in a symposium to celebrate 25 years of the fellowship , he refused . <p> " It started before October 7 . The antisemitism on campus at NYU has become out of control , and it did infest the law school . So , I told the guy who runs the programme : ' I 'm not going to do this 25-year celebration . And frankly , I want to have nothing to do with the university other than make sure that the fellowship continues . ' " <p> Professor Louise Gullifer , Chair of Cambridge 's Law Faculty , said : " The University abhors antisemitism and racism in any form . The university is also fully committed to academic freedom and freedom of speech within the law . In that spirit , a symposium focused on international law and Palestine is being held at the Lauterpacht Centre for International Law . We encourage our community to challenge ideas they disagree with and engage in rigorous debate . " <p> Dame Sally Davies , Master of Trinity , said about the incident at the College on 8 March 2024 : " I am shocked by the attack in our College on our painting . I condemn this act of vandalism . We are cooperating with the police to bring the perpetrators to justice . As a community we continue to support each other . " <p> NYU told the JC : " Respectfully , NYU was among a handful of universities that responded on October 8 , condemning Hamas ' terrorist attack . Just a few weeks later , NYU issued the first 10-Point Plan among universities to address safety , bigotry and antisemitism . NYU was also among the first universities to .. clarify that the use of code-words such as ' Zionist ' could violate the University 's Non-Discrimination and Anti-Harassment policies . " Trinity College , Cambridge University and Harvard were contacted for comment .
