<h> Share <h> Macron is the author of his own despair <p> ' Notre-Dame has been restored to its full level of glory , and even more so , ' said the President-elect Donald J. Trump this week , as he confirmed that he would be honouring Emmanuel Macron with his presence for the big reopening of France 's most famous cathedral on Saturday . ' It will be a very special day for all ! ' <p> Just like Trump , Macron relishes such stately occasions , and it would be churlish to deny him credit for Notre-Dame 's impressive reconstruction following the devastating fire that shocked the world in 2019 . Paul McCartney has reportedly been given an ' exceptional authorisation ' to sing ' Imagine ' within the sacred walls , while the rapper Pharrell Williams will perform outside . <p> Victor Hugo noted : ' On the face of this aged queen of our cathedrals , by the side of a wrinkle , one always finds a scar . ' While Notre-Dame may have risen from the ashes , Macron 's government is a smouldering ruin . Macron once compared himself to Jupiter ; now he more resembles Ozymandias . <p> The French President is reported to be depressed , disagreeable with colleagues , sulking in his palace <p> He is the author of his own despair . He was never loved , had made numerous unforced errors , but he was until June at least indisputably in charge , with a relative majority in the National Assembly , a renewed mandate of his own in 2022 , some pension reforms successfully implemented by decree . France seemed buzzy , a country open for business . <p> But then he threw it all away when he made the irrational bet that he could see off the resurgent Marine Le Pen , whose party had just won the European parliament elections . He should have ignored her . <p> Lyndon Johnson said the first lesson of politics is to learn to count , and Macron , the supposed Mozart of finance , proved himself innumerate . Le Pen did n't win a majority in the subsequent National Assembly elections but she did win 11 million votes and 143 seats -- a Rassemblement National record . In Britain , with the same vote share , she would have won a huge parliamentary majority . Although in a minority , she has nevertheless demonstrated her power over Michel Barnier -- and , implicitly , Macron himself . <p> Although Macron has been quoted channelling Edith Piaf , claiming that he regrets nothing , this is surely bravado . He is reported to be depressed , disagreeable with colleagues , often sulking in his palace , emerging only for photo opportunities , preferably abroad . As his government struggled to survive this week , he flew to Riyadh for a state visit , after claiming credit ( improbably ) for brokering the Lebanon ceasefire . He 's now looking for a new prime minister , his sixth . <p> Barnier 's ministry survived for 12 weeks before colliding with the reality of mathematics . Even though Barnier is supposed to be a master negotiator -- questionable , given the mutually destructive EU-UK Brexit agreement -- he could n't talk his way out of the fundamental problem that he had n't the votes in the Assembly to pass his budget , raising taxes and cutting expenditure , even after granting numerous concessions to Le Pen . His minority government duly collapsed . <h> Most popular <h> Can Meghan and Harry stoop any lower ? <p> We may not quite have seen the back of Barnier . He and his ministers could remain in place as a technical government with no legislative mandate , pending replacement . And since there 's no immediate likelihood of cobbling together a new government or coalition , that could be some time . <p> In the meantime the financial markets are spooked , though not yet panicking . Mighty France is paying similar interest rates to Greece . Why ca n't the French live within their means ? The French have some of the highest taxes in the OECD , yet spend even more . It 's a French version of dine and dash . After the binge , borrow the money to pay the bill . <p> Countries have got along without governments before but France is in an especially delicate position . It is crippled by a 6 per cent fiscal deficit amounting to debt worth 112 per cent of GDP -- not just imprudent but a violation of EU rules . The budget that would have raised taxes and cut expenses is not simply a technical exercise in paying teachers and keeping on the lights . It was meant to prove to the world that France has a serious government . That proof remains undelivered . <p> Macron looks like the lamest of ducks but still has possible moves . An extreme scenario has him responding to the collapse of the government and the impossibility of creating a new one by seizing power under Article 16 of the constitution , allowing presidential rule by decree in the event of a grave and immediate threat to the Republic . This would be the first presidential rule by decree since that of Charles de Gaulle in 1961 during the Algerian war of independence . Is it credible that Macron might attempt this -- a final throw of the dice ? He has a reputation for risk-taking , so it 's not impossible . <p> Or could he resign , as is demanded by the left ? He 's put the country into a slough of despond . Perhaps resignation might be honourable , but it 's hard to see how it solves any problems and it could even make matters worse . This makes it even less likely than a triggering of Article 16 . <p> With Macron unable to run again , and likely to remain in place until the next presidential election in April 2027 , who might be his successor ? This is now the subject of obsession in the political salons . <p> Ironically , since Macron 's intention had been to neutralise her , Le Pen , 56 , is the current frontrunner to replace him in 2027 . This will be her fourth go at the presidency . There 's no doubting her resilience . Her hobby is breeding Bengal cats , an especially strong-willed and aggressive breed , reflective of her own character . Her politics are populist but hardly extreme right . She 's Eurosceptical and wants to tame Brussels , but has ditched her idea of exiting the euro . She 's an economic nationalist , essentially a Poujadiste with leftish economic policies . She proposes a stronger government approach to immigration , integration and crime -- all popular causes with the electorate . <p> Le Pen has dumped or sidelined all the fascists from her party , expelled her notorious father , Jean-Marie Le Pen , who is in any case gravely ill , and tacked so sharply to the centre that some of her supporters are muttering that she has sold out . The party has rebranded from the National Front founded by papa to the more inclusive National Rally . She 's a lawyer and resilient politician but has no real government experience . Can she really execute a programme ? She will not find many friends in le conglom ? rat -- the French Blob . <p> Le Pen at the National Assembly in Paris , 2 December 2024 ( Getty Images ) <p> The big ' but ' is that in 2027 Le Pen could be in jail and disqualified from office , for alleged embezzlement by paying party functionaries from European parliament budgets . The trial ended last week . The judges will rule on guilt and penalty in March , but this could run and run . The maximum sanction is three years in prison and disqualification from public office . <p> Then there 's Jean-Luc M ? lenchon , loosely a French version of Jeremy Corbyn , although angrier , a rabble rouser given to epic tantrums . There 's a video of him squaring up to a policeman in 2018 , screaming : ' I am the Republic . I 'm a politician . Get out of my way . ' He was given a three-month suspended sentence for his behaviour . <p> M ? lenchon , 73 , is chummy with numerous extreme leftists , wokeists , transgenderists , greenies and Islamo-gauchistes . He has a hatred of Nato , and his economic policy is Venezuelan . He talks of a 90 per cent tax rate , of lowering the retirement age , of exit taxes on the fortunate trying to leave . He 's reportedly a millionaire and wears a bespoke Mao jacket . His portmanteau political movement France Insoumise has 71 deputies ( of 577 ) in the National Assembly , including a member of Antifa on an antiterrorist watch list . <p> M ? lenchon ran for president of France in 2012 , 2017 and 2022 . In 2012 he finished fourth in the first round , with 11 per cent of the vote . In 2017 he was third , with 20 per cent . In 2022 he again placed third , with 22 per cent . In a crowded field , that might be enough to make it to round two . In 2017 , Le Pen made it to the second round with less . This , given the variable geometry of the first round in a French presidential election , could mean she could face M ? lenchon in the decisive second round . The revolutionary vs the cat lady . In this startling scenario , Le Pen would probably win . The French wo n't buy what M ? lenchon is selling . It would send the bond markets into a death spiral . <p> M ? lenchon at a pro-Gaza demonstration in Geneva , 3 February 2024 ( Getty Images ) <p> There are also centrist and moderate rightists who might present themselves to the electorate . ? douard Philippe , a former Macron prime minister ; Bruno Retailleau , the tough-talking Barnier interior minister ; the perennial Fran ? ois Bayrou , mayor of Pau . Even the former socialist president Fran ? ois Hollande is mulling a comeback . <p> On the ? le de la Cit ? in Paris , where private groups are being given tours of Notre-Dame before the formal reopening this weekend , there are some arguments over the aesthetics of the restoration , but mainly there 's awe at the luminosity and craft . There have also been rude social media insults directed at the President , who has not been shy in taking credit . Macron promised to save Notre-Dame , and he delivered . It 's a monument to himself . His presidency , not so much . <h> Macron is the author of his own despair <h> Read next <p> The last time I took my wife to watch Millwall play a home game , a gentleman a few rows in front of us took grave exception to the behaviour of an opposing player and identified him , very loudly , as the author of The Critique of Pure Reason -- repeatedly and with venom . Having vented his
