<p> With Eddie Marsan , Rachel Riley and Dame Maureen Lipman at the March Against Antisemitism in November 2023 <p> On October 7 , Jewish students tried to mourn those murdered on that day a year earlier in Israel -- many of them their age . But their commemorations did not pass without incident . <p> At UCL , protesters called for Intifada and chanted : " From the river to the sea " , forcing students to use side entrances and fear attending lectures . At Queen Mary , students surrounded a vigil , chanting " Globalise the intifada " , with at least one Jewish student being followed home to shouts of " F*** Israel " . <p> At King 's , chants for the eradication of Israel ; at SOAS , signs calling the Jewish state a " baby killer " and threats that " You will never be free of us until Palestine is free of you ! " ; at Goldsmiths , chants of " From Gaza to Beirut , all our martyrs we salute " and " When people are occupied , resistance is justified " ; at London Met , an effusive eulogy for the leader of Hamas published by a lecturer ; at a Jewish student party , an Israeli flag burned by a gatecrasher . <p> And that 's just London . There was also the swastika etched onto the Chabad student centre at Oxford , the abusive stickers at Newcastle and Edinburgh Universities , the Cardiff student union representative " joking " about bullying Zionists and the abuse of a Nova massacre survivor at Birmingham . <p> The list goes on -- and these incidents all took place subsequent to the " Tentifada " encampments being erected at universities across the country . <p> But it 's not just on campuses . Over the past year , antisemitic hate crime has quadrupled , and Jews are now the most targeted faith minority in the country , despite our minuscule numbers . <p> The figures for the general population 's attitude towards Israel are bad , but among young people , they are dire . <p> As our polling of the British public , conducted by YouGov , showed , one third of British people believe that Israel treats the Palestinians like the Nazis treated the Jews , a view which is antisemitic according to the IHRA definition of antisemitism . This is the highest figure that we have ever recorded in our polling . But the figure rises to a shocking 48 per cent -- nearly half -- of 18 to 24-year-olds . <p> Almost one in five British people believe that Israel can get away with anything because its supporters control the media , a figure that rises to one third among 18 to 24s . <p> Nearly one fifth of young people do not believe that Israel has a right to exist as a homeland for the Jewish people , compared to just under one in ten of the British public overall . Almost a quarter of the general population think that Israel and its supporters are a bad influence on our democracy . Among young people , the figure is a staggering 43 per cent . <p> It is not just antisemitism as expressed in relation to the Jewish state . Classic anti-Jewish tropes are also more prevalent among British youth . For example , one in ten people in Britain believe that , compared to other groups , Jewish people have too much power in the media . Among 18 to 24 year olds , this rises to 16 per cent . <p> With antisemitism and extremist propaganda rampant on social media , antisemitic activist-academics posing as scholars , trade unions and activist groups looking to penetrate schools , countless reports of radical religious rhetoric in mosques and a biased mainstream media that regularly platforms terrorist-sympathisers and fawns over " peaceful " protesters and activists who criminally damage property , is it any wonder that British schools and campuses look how they do ? <p> But we know that the situation is bad . The real question for us , as a community , is what we are going to do about it . At Campaign Against Antisemitism , we have dedicated staff who assist students when incidents arise on their campuses , and we regularly provide antisemitism training to university societies on request , as we do to public bodies , companies , charities and others . <p> We provide free legal representation and litigate when necessary . We also have a considerable following across multiple social media platforms and a podcast , through which we reach young audiences to try to counter what they are hearing elsewhere and give encouragement to young Jews and their allies . <p> We have repeatedly written to university chancellors and organised open letters , petitions and protests , and , where appropriate , submitted complaints to regulators regarding students qualifying in regulated professions . We have also engaged with the Office for Students and the Department for Education and made policy recommendations to ministers . <p> All this is to say nothing of our work on policy and policing , identification of antisemites , innovative awareness-raising campaigns and many other projects . <p> But all of this only works when the authorities -- the government , police and CPS , university administrations , headteachers , media executives and others -- understand that our intolerance for surging antisemitism is not just our view , but the community 's view -- and that it is very strongly held . <p> To that end , we are asking everyone to join us at 1pm this Sunday to march in central London once again . <p> Last year , the March Against Antisemitism united our community and its organisations and drew more than 100,000 people in the largest gathering against antisemitism since Cable Street . <p> Now , after an unimaginably dreadful year of unprecedented levels of Jew-hate , we must march again . We can not assume that , without collective action by British Jews and our friends , our country will settle back into its tradition of tolerance and decency -- particularly given the radicalisation of young people in our country . <p> If we do n't stand up to extremism , it will win . <p> We owe it to ourselves and our children -- and to wider British society -- to fight for our future .
