<p> President Yoon 's martial mistake , a plunging rouble , and cousin marriages <p> Today 's Big Question <h> President Yoon 's martial law : why did he do it ? <p> Yoon Suk Yeol 's late-night declaration and then reversal of martial law in South Korea came as a surprise to everyone , even some in his own administration . <p> Already " deeply unpopular and under growing pressure " , Yoon 's use of the " nuclear option " to try and save his presidency will almost certainly see him forced to resign , if not face more severe consequences , said the BBC . <p> What did the commentators say ? Yoon 's move was an " act of desperation " , one of a " boxed-in " president who is " isolated and impulsive " , said Christian Davies and Song Jung-a in the Financial Times . Since narrowly taking office in 2022 , he has faced mounting problems , including a " slowing economy , historically low approval ratings and an opposition-controlled parliament " and alleged corruption scandals involving his wife . His declaration of martial law was an apparent attempt to " rally rightwing political forces behind him " , but that has " backfired spectacularly " and he is now " more politically and legally exposed than ever " . <p> However , despite the political difficulties Yoon was facing , the move may not entirely have been out of desperation but one " of anger " , suggested Myunghee Lee on The Conversation . Having already been in an " incredibly weak position " , the president must have known that " calls for impeachment " may be " intensified by his actions " if he declared martial law . <p> There were " some clues " in Yoon 's speech as to " what he was thinking " , and he was clearly " frustrated " with the assembly , which has recently slashed the government budget and left him a " lame duck " president , said Laura Bicker at the BBC . He called the assembly a " den of criminals " and a " monster that destroys the liberal democratic system " , but it is clear he " misread his country and its politics " when deciding to declare martial law , said Bicker . <p> What next ? Yoon 's " extreme measure " also " points to a deeper malaise " , said The Economist , and a political landscape where " polarisation has become deeply entrenched " and opponents view " each other as mortal enemies " . <p> There is little expectation that Yoon can continue as president after the " latest fiasco " , added the magazine , but it perhaps presents an " opportunity for the country to reflect and regroup " , or it could simply " fuel further division and enmity " . <p> The Explainer <h> Russia 's rouble collapse <p> Russia 's wartime economy may be starting to feel the strain of the conflict , as Western sanctions finally begin to bite . <p> Last week Russia 's currency , the rouble , plunged to its lowest rate against the dollar since the immediate aftermath of the country 's invasion of Ukraine in February 2022 . <p> Why is it happening now ? The catalyst for the recent currency crisis seems relatively innocuous when compared to the already stifling international sanctions that preceded it . <p> The US Treasury Department imposed new restrictions on around 50 Russian banks , including Gazprombank , the financial arm of the giant state gas firm that had been used for foreign purchasers of Russian gas payments . This created a " dollar rush " , said The Spectator , " but make no mistake : the rouble 's devaluation has been on the cards for some time " . <p> Can the Kremlin do anything about it ? The Kremlin is " engaged in a tricky juggle " , reported AP News . Massive government spending on the war effort has kept the economy growing more strongly than many expected . But it has also resulted in inflation running at over 8% annually to October , which in turn has prompted the central bank to raise interest rates to 21% . <p> In this context , a weaker rouble is a " double-edged sword " , said The Economist . A lower rate against the dollar boosts the rouble value of oil exports , " helping plug the government 's widening deficit " . At the same time , " it also pushes up the price of imported goods -- something that matters for both consumers and the government 's war effort " . <p> What does it mean for the future ? The rouble " remains battered " , said Fortune , " and resources for preventing a further collapse are shrinking " . A case in point is Russia 's National Wealth Fund , which has been " tapped repeatedly to prop up the rouble " , leaving the Kremlin with less firepower to battle another currency collapse , said Bloomberg . <p> Vladimir Putin told reporters last week that " there are certainly no grounds for panic " . But the rouble and inflation remain key concerns for the Kremlin . " The inflation rate and the exchange rate , those two are very visible and you can feel it in your pocket , " Russian economy expert Janis Kluge told AP , adding " there is no propaganda in the world that will convince you prices are not rising when prices are rising " . <p> QUOTE OF THE DAY <h> " In a war of scale -- not a limited intervention , but one similar to Ukraine -- our army , for example , on the current casualty rates would be expended in six months to a year . " <p> Al Carns , the veterans minister , who is also a reservist , tells a conference that the British army would be destroyed in less than a year if subjected to the casualty rate suffered by Russian forces in Ukraine . <h> Poll watch <p> Nearly four in five Brits ( 78% ) admit to bending the rules of board games at Christmas . In a survey of over 2,000 adults by Mattel , 49% said cheating was the main cause of rows during the festive season with 78% admitting to trying to bend the rules . <p> IN THE SPOTLIGHT <h> Cousin marriage and a change in the law <p> The UK government is under pressure to outlaw marriages between cousins following moves in several Scandinavian countries to ban such unions . <p> The Tory MP Richard Holden has tabled a question for the justice secretary , asking her to assess the potential merits of outlawing consanguineous marriages . Holden said there are " serious concerns " around the health risks of children born to parents who are biological relatives . <p> Keeping it in the familyMarriage between cousins has been legal in Britain " since the Reformation " , wrote Justin Marozzi for The Spectator . Charles Darwin and Queen Victoria were among the eminent Britons who married their cousins , a history which includes multiple royal unions . <p> Attitudes to such relations have varied " throughout Western history " , said The Economist . Historically , and up to the present day in some parts of the world , marriage between cousins has been encouraged as it " secures wealth and reinforces social connections " within a family . <p> Today , an estimated 10 to 15% of newborns worldwide have consanguineous parents , said Deutsche Welle , largely because cousin marriage is " socially embedded " in many regions of the world , including South Asia , North Africa and the Middle East . <p> Children at riskA briefing exploring child deaths in Bradford , Birmingham and the London borough of Redbridge , found that " 20-40% " of them may be " due to genetic disorders associated with consanguinity and chromosomal conditions " . But " while the practice persists " among British Pakistanis , said DW , it " appears to be declining " . In a study of 13,500 families between 2007 and 2011 , the Born in Bradford project found 60% of couples of Pakistani heritage were either first cousins , second cousins or other blood relatives , but a follow-up study between 2016 and 2020 found " sharp decline " -- from 60% to 40% . <p> Those who are in such marriages often " choose to keep quiet " , said The Economist , because the " ick " factor " prevails in Western culture " , and the " family dynamics can be difficult to explain to others " . <p> In a response to Holden 's parliamentary question , Alex Davies-Jones , the Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice , said the government would consider the issue . This means they will " lob it into the long grass " , Marozzi said in The Spectator . But evidence indicates that the British Pakistani community " is already having the conversation " , regardless of the legal status of cousin marriage . <h> Good day ? ? ? ? ? <p> ... for teachers in England , after pupils have seen improvements in their science attainment and " high " maths results " maintained " despite the pandemic , according to a major international study conducted every four years . Researchers said the results of the Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study " go against predictions around the continuing negative impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on pupils ' achievements " . <h> Bad day ? ? <p> ... for residents of Slough , as the Berkshire town was ranked as the most miserable place to live in Britain , according to a yearly happiness study by Rightmove . The study was completed by more than 35,000 people across the country and questions included whether they felt proud to live in their area . But it 's not all doom and gloom , as there will be " few who can dispute " Slough 's " strong transport connections " said This is Money . Slough Borough Council 's website points out that within 10 minutes ' drive of Slough is the M25 , Europe 's busiest road . <p> picture of the day <h> Back to school <p> Palestinian teacher Doha al-Attar runs a class for children in a heavily damaged classroom in Khan Yunis where she was displaced , a personal initiative she says aims to resume education and support children as the war continues between Israel and the Palestinian Hamas group in the besieged Gaza Strip . <h> One Hundred Years of Solitude : ' epic ' adaptation <p> It 's surely a " fool 's game " to try to adapt Gabriel Garcia Marquez 's Nobel-prize-winning novel , " One Hundred Years of Solitude " , into a television series , said Keith Watson in The Telegraph . " How do you film the unfilmable ? " <p> Capturing the " labyrinthine " book 's " towering themes " and " magic realist " imagery should be almost impossible . But , as the first episode of Netflix 's " epic " adaptation unfolds , you 're drawn into Marquez 's tale like " succumbing to the surreptitious skills of a hypnotist " . <p> Filmed in Colombia with an almost entirely Colombian cast , the series is a " deeply personal " project for the Marquez family , who have " closely guarded " the rights to the book since the revered writer 's death , said Veronica Villafa ? e in Forbes . <p> It 's " remarkable " how close the Netflix show gets to " recreating not just the substance but also the kinetic spirit of the book " , said Judy Berman in Time . Over eight hour-long episodes , the century-spanning series manages to " tell a dynamic story without oversimplifying Marquez 's grand themes " . <p> Each episode features " surreal images from the novel " that " could easily have looked silly " but somehow manage to " retain their poetic profundity " . And there are outstanding performances throughout : Claudio Cata ? o brings a " haunting stillness " to Aureliano , while Nicole Montenegro injects " wildness " into the role of the " nearly feral " orphan , Rebeca . <p> One Hundred Years of Solitude will air on Netflix from 11 December <h> Statistic of the day <p> 132 : The number of known asteroids that have passed closer to Earth than the moon since October 2023 , according to Nasa . Yesterday morning a space rock entered Earth 's atmosphere over Yakutia in northeastern Siberia , creating a massive fireball witnessed by people in the region , according to the agency . It was the first of two expected asteroid fly-bys this week . <p> instant opinion <h> Today 's best commentary <p> Money is starting to talk in British politicsDaniel Finkelstein in The TimesIn American politics , " money is king " , writes Daniel Finkelstein , so " if you do n't have much " , it is " hard indeed " to succeed . The " consequences are predictable " , with politicians spending a " huge proportion of their time raising funds " . " I fear " this trend is " about to arrive in British politics " through " online advertising of a very targeted kind " . Money has " just begun its ascent to the political throne " and " we may not be able to stop it " . How to prevent another Gregg Wallace scandalLucy Vallance in The SpectatorWe should " stop employing the people we know are problematic " , writes Lucy Vallance . A " further solution " would be " empowering everyone to speak out " , not just " those who are in a position where they can weather the storm " . But , when employment is " scarce " and the industry " small " , that is n't always " a realistic expectation " , so the Wallace episode should " also encourage us to be a bit more open about the industry 's dark underbelly " . <p> Why I will never , ever tip in the pubEmily Watkins on the i news siteSometimes , writes Emily Watkins , humans " are n't so amenable to change " . Despite a " notable increase " in digital card machines prompting us to add percentage tips when we pay , British pub-goers " apparently remain quietly non-compliant " . Tipping is " antithetical " to the culture of pubs and " nothing less than an affront to the natural order of things " . In contrast to restaurants , " part of the pleasure " of pubs is " being left to fend for yourself " . <p> word of the day <h> E-tattoos <p> Scientists have developed a new technology that can measure brain waves using electronic , temporary scalp tattoos . These e-tattoos " could act as a quicker and more convenient way to monitor brain activity and diagnose neurological conditions " , compared to EEG tests , according to Live Science . And unlike their permanent counterparts , e-tattoos can be simply scrubbed off using alcohol wipes or washed off with shampoo . <h> In the morning <p> Arion will be back with our Morning Report tomorrow , which includes a look at the latest plastic surgery trend taking hold among followers of Donald Trump .
