<p> The American music executives Ken Levitan and James Diener had a big idea and a clear plan . Taking note of the Korean band BTS 's global success , they travelled to Israel , whittled down a thousand applicants to six talented young men and put together a pop sensation called As1one , billed as the first Israeli-Palestinian boy band . They flew them to Los Angeles , housed them in a shared apartment in West Hollywood , and teamed them up with songwriters and producers . Then , the day after their plane touched down , the October 7 attacks happened . <p> " I was scrolling on Instagram at 6.30 in the morning when I saw a story about a hostage , " says the blond-haired Niv Lin , a former professional basketball player who grew up in the desert , not far from the site of the Nova festival . Like all the band members , he is in his early twenties . " We 're used to things happening in Israel but we woke up to this crazy reality . " <p> " We had been waiting a year to come out to Los Angeles and work on our music , " says Nadav Philips , a muscular , chisel-jawed former wedding singer from Tel Aviv , who prior to joining As1one had never spoken to a Palestinian . " It was like someone took your dreams and threw them in the garbage . Then we realised that we had a bigger mission here . " <p> Remarkably it is all captured on As1one , a four-part docuseries on Paramount+ that began as a standard fly-on-the-wall pop documentary but became something else entirely as the conflict took hold . In one of the heated arguments after news of the attack , Philips points out that as a gay man he could be killed in Hamas-controlled Gaza . Aseel Farah , a Palestinian Christian from the Israeli city of Haifa , with a background as a rapper and dancer , retorts that innocent people are killed every day in Gaza . But after thinking about jacking it all in and going home to be with their families , all six members decide to stick it out . <p> The band was whittled down from a thousand applicants to six men <p> GILBERT FLORES/BILLBOARD VIA GETTY IMAGES <p> " It is hard to be far from home when your home is on fire , " says Neta Rozenblat , a fresh-faced pianist and songwriter who grew up in Tel Aviv . " We all called our families on October 7 and got the same message : you guys need to stay . You are more helpful in Los Angeles , showing the world about this co-existing , beautiful thing , than coming back to Israel and ending the band . " <h> Advertisement <p> In doing so they got to hear the other side of the story of a region devastated by generational conflict . " It never happens , especially during the worst war ever , that Israelis and Palestinians are having to deal with it together , " says Ohad Attia , a guitarist from Tel Aviv with a love of Led Zeppelin . " And we 're being filmed while doing it . " <p> " No matter what side you 're on , in Israel it is dangerous to even talk about these things , " Farah points out . " There are very few Israelis who are courageous enough to talk to a Palestinian , or a Palestinian who will talk to an Israeli about what they 're going through . October 7 happened and I saw these people in the band , who were my friends , going through a lot of pain . At the same time , I know the history of our region , I knew Israel was going to retaliate and a lot of people would be lost . It is still going on today . So we all had our personal reactions but then along came this music that was keeping us in the same room , the same place . It made us become who we are . " <p> Have the wider communities been supportive of As1one ? After all , one Palestinian talent scout was so horrified at Ken Levitan and James Diener 's initial proposition that she flicked her cigarette ash at them , although eventually she was won over . " Many people were not understanding , simply because of the division we all live with , " Rozenblat says . " But every band gets haters and most people do want hope for Israelis and Palestinians . We also get obsessive fans . Which we love . " <p> It is strange , talking to As1one . As they sit in formation for a video call from their apartment in West Hollywood , three on the floor and three on chairs , they look and act like so many other boy bands : polite , photogenic , toned , disciplined . They talk about starting each day with a workout , how good band members Nadav and Sadik Dogosh are at cooking , how Americans are always surprised by their blunt Middle Eastern way of doing things . <p> The songs , which they worked on with LA songwriters and producers , fit the boy band bill . First single All Eyes On Us is an upbeat pop funk banger featuring Nile Rodgers on guitar , Stranger is a heartfelt ballad about understanding one another , and Together as One is a Backstreet Boys-like singalong about " peace beyond the skyline " . There are rousing harmonies , intimate acoustic guitar moments and words about dancing as if the whole world is watching . <h> Advertisement <p> But most boy bands do n't talk about the complexities of the Israel-Palestine situation , or their part in it . " As Israeli Palestinians we do n't want to be tokenised , " Farah says . " It 's easy to say : here 's this band , they 're going to find the solution to world peace . But we 're musicians . We do n't have the solution to anything . It 's about bringing something from the region to the global stage , so while the war made the nature of the band so much more important , for us it was always about our craft , our art . " <p> The documentary also captures the less serious situation of being six young men thrown together in an LA apartment and forced to get along and work together . It follows the band members as they marvel at the sheer size of Los Angeles , get chatted up by two girls in a gym , and are told off by Levitan and Diener for not putting enough passion into their delivery . At one point they take a trip to the Joshua Tree National Park , where Lin builds a memorial to a friend killed on October 7 and finds himself consoled by Farah as he does it . A homesick Dogosh , who had never been on a plane before flying to LA , loved the California desert in particular . <p> " In Bedouin culture we live very simply , with a couple of animals and a tin house , " says the quietly spoken Dogosh , whose piercing eyes must have helped to mark him out for boy band inclusion . " In Joshua Tree I thought : two sheep and a cow and I 'd be happy here . You do n't need much to live . " <p> Could As1one be an unlikely breakout success ? As Rozenblat points out , the songs may relate to their own identities at an extremely volatile moment , but like all the best pop songs they should have universal relevance . " Stranger might be about lost love or an old friend but we wrote it about leaving Israel as it transformed from a happy place to something very different . Will we feel like strangers in our own home when we return ? " <p> What did it feel like to return ? " I am speaking from the Israeli perspective but the whole country was talking about the hostages , " Philips says . " We were in our bubble in LA . It was shocking to get back and see the grief . " <h> Advertisement <p> An EP is on its way in the new year and there are ongoing rehearsals for a tour . " We 're musicians , pop artists . We 're not politicians and we do n't have a solution for any of this , " Philips says . " All we can do is show people how to act with patience , and maybe start to listen to the other side . No matter who you are , Israeli or Palestinian , you can enjoy the music and forget about the bad stuff for a while . This is our goal . " <p> As Rozenblat concludes : " We are Israelis and Palestinians who want peace in our home . And we want to make good music for everyone to listen to . That 's it , really . " As1one is on Paramount+ . All Eyes On Us is out now
