<p> A Palestinian woman walks past a damaged wall bearing the UNRWA logo at a camp for internally displaced people in Rafah ( Getty Images ) <p> The British government has committed an additional ? 19 million of aid to Gaza , including ? 7 million to the controversial UN agency for Palestinian refugees , Unrwa . <p> A total of ? 12 million would be directed to the United Nations ' Office for the Co-ordination of Humanitarian Affairs ( OCHA ) and World Food Programme ( WFP ) and ? 7 million to Unrwa 's Flash Humanitarian Appeal for Gaza , the government said on Monday . <p> The announcement came as Development Minister Annelise Dodds took part in a humanitarian conference in Cairo focused on alleviating suffering in Gaza as part of a three-day visit to the Middle East . <p> In a trip to the West Bank , she is set to meet Palestinian Prime Minister Dr Mohammad Mustafa , visit an Unrwa-operated refugee camp as well as visit areas affected by settler violence . <p> Dodds will then arrive in Israel and , according to a government statement , hold " meetings with Israeli representatives " and " call on Israel to remove impediments to getting aid into Gaza and discuss finding a lasting resolution to the conflict " . <p> The minister will also meet the families of UK and UK-linked hostages in Israel and " will reiterate that the UK continues to exercise every possible diplomatic lever to see the hostages immediately and unconditionally released " , the statement said . <p> Dodds said ahead of the conference that the situation in Gaza was " catastrophic . Gazans are in desperate need of food , and shelter with the onset of winter . The Cairo conference will be an opportunity to get leading voices in one room and put forward real-world solutions to the humanitarian crisis . " <p> She continued : " The UK is committed to supporting the region 's most vulnerable communities , pledging additional funding for Unrwa , and to supporting the Palestinian Authority reforms . " <p> Dodds also called on Israel to " immediately act to ensure unimpeded aid access to Gaza . I will meet counterparts both in Israel and the OPTs ( Occupied Palestinian Territories ) to discuss the need to remove these impediments , bring about a ceasefire , free the hostages and find a lasting solution to the conflict . " <p> The UK was one of several countries that stopped funding Unrwa in January 2024 after Israel accused its employees of participating in the October 7 attacks and subsequent violence , a decision reversed by the Labour Party in government . <p> Leader of the centre-right opposition party Yisrael Beiteinu , Avidgor Lieberman said at the time : " Unrwa employees not only collaborate with Hamas , but were involved in the murder , kidnapping and rape of Jews on October 7 , and they continue to assist Hamas in the war against Israel to this day . " <p> In an interview with the JC , the former leader of Israel 's Labour Party was scathing about Unrwa and said that " a lot of people who work in Unrwa are Hamas 's people " . <p> Unrwa has maintained that only 0.66 per cent of its 30,000 staff have been " identified as being implicated in breach of neutrality allegations " .
