<h> Brian Thompson 's death has elicited little sympathy . I do n't need to spell out why <h> Memeing a murderer <p> If you spotted the person who shot Brian Thompson , would you a ) turn them in to the police or b ) continue to go merrily about your day ? <p> Judging by the gleeful reaction to the UnitedHealthcare CEO 's murder , 99% of the United States would choose option b . There have been a lot of memes after Thompson was gunned down in what appears to have been a targeted attack in Manhattan . There have been a lot of jokes about pre-existing conditions and denied coverage . There have been a lot of shocking stories about how UnitedHealthcare has ruined people 's lives by denying coverage . What there has n't been is very much sympathy for the 50-year-old insurance CEO . In a country that ca n't agree on much , an awful lot of people seem to agree with the Clarence Darrow quote : " I 've never wished a man dead , but I have read some obituaries with great pleasure . " <p> I do n't need to spell out why Thompson 's death has elicited so little sympathy . It does n't matter how great a guy he might have been to his friends and family ; he was a top executive at a company that has treated millions of people very poorly . Health insurance in the US is a racket that is more focused on increasing profits than providing care . And UnitedHealthcare is particularly egregious when it comes to getting its customers to pay enormous premiums , then turning around and denying them care when they desperately need it . According to data from ValuePenguin , a consumer research site owned by LendingTree that specializes in insurance , the company dismissed about one in every three claims in 2023 . That 's the most of any major insurer : the industry average is 16% . <p> Denying claims is apparently very profitable . UnitedHealth has a market value of $566bn , and generated nearly $372bn in revenues last year . It 's the fourth-biggest publicly traded US company by sales . Thompson himself got a nice little cut of that : he earned $10.2 million in 2023 . He was also very good at selling his stocks at opportune moments : Thompson was one of three UnitedHealth Group executives named in a class-action lawsuit accused of dumping more than $120m of stock while the company was the subject of a federal antitrust investigation . <p> In short : Thompson was the face of an unfair system that has screwed millions of people over . Nobody knows what the motive behind Thompson 's murder was yet , but the shooter wrote " deny " , " defend " and " depose " on the shell casings left at the scene -- which echoes the title of a book about predatory insurance company practices . There has been a lot of speculation ( and it is purely speculation ) that the shooter may have been someone whose loved one was denied coverage by UnitedHealthcare . <p> Whatever the motive , many people seem to think Thompson got what he deserved . The glee we 're seeing does n't just stem from animosity towards insurance companies , but anger towards an unfair system in which the elite rarely seem to face any consequences for their actions . The banks that caused the 2008 financial crisis got bailed out while regular people lost their homes . The key executives behind the opioid crisis may never see a jail cell , despite the lives they have ruined . Joe Biden gave his son Hunter a pardon . Donald Trump will become the first president convicted of a felony . <p> To be clear : I am not in any way condoning Thompson 's murder or endorsing vigilantes shooting CEOs on the street . Murdering anyone is quite clearly wrong . But please spare me the pearl-clutching from people ( mainly politicians and billionaires ) who are shocked by the satisfaction Thompson 's murder has inspired , yet who happily endorse or ignore other forms of violence . It 's quite illuminating to see who is vocally outraged by Thompson 's death yet indifferent to murder on an industrial scale . Representative Ritchie Torres , for example , has tweeted that Thompson 's assassination " is so shocking that it leaves one speechless " . Meanwhile , Torres is working overtime to whitewash the mass murder of Palestinians in Gaza -- which Amnesty International has labelled a genocide . Violence is apparently not shocking when it 's against people you consider subhuman rather than wealthy white CEOs . Nor does violence seem quite as shocking to some when it 's baked into an economic system that kills people via greed and neglect rather than with a gun . <p> Now that the US is finally having a nationwide conversation about how much people hate health insurance companies , the big question is this : will anything change ? There has been one bit of positive news : Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield said on Thursday that it would reverse a decision to put a time limit on anesthesia . It 's not clear whether Thompson 's murder had anything to do with this , but negative sentiment towards insurers likely did factor in . <p> Still , I would n't get too optimistic about imminent systematic change . Rather than making their business models more humane , it 's likely that health insurance companies will simply invest more money in private security . Indeed , it seems that security companies are already seeing an uptick in business . This is the world we live in , I guess . One man 's murder is another man 's business opportunity . <h> Academic trolled by misogynists is ' unfazed ' <p> Dr Ally Louks , a University of Cambridge supervisor , recently posted a picture of herself on X with her completed PhD , which was on the politics of smell ( a scentillating subject ) . Because some men can not stand to see a woman being happy , some large rightwing accounts targeted Louks and she was bombarded with rape threats . " I feel quite unfazed by the vitriol , " she said about the trolling . I 'm glad she 's unfazed but the fact that we seem to have normalized online misogyny is unacceptable . <h> Tradition of smacking women 's bottoms with cow horns draws scrutiny <p> " An annual festival on a German North Sea island that had drawn criticism over a practice of men hitting women with cow 's horns passed without reports of assaults this year , " the Associated Press reports . Now , that 's certainly a lede you do n't see every day . <h> Man disrupts TV interview about women feeling unsafe in public spaces <p> A journalist in Britain was interviewing a mother and daughter about an experience with attempted sexual assault when a man interrupted filming and reportedly became aggressive . <h> Keira Knightley ' stalked by men ' amid early fame <p> " There was an amount of gaslighting to be told by a load of men that ' you wanted this ' , " Knightley told the Los Angeles Times about shooting to fame as a teenager . " It was rape speak . You know : ' This is what you deserve . ' It was a very violent , misogynistic atmosphere . " <h> The abortion case that could set a precedent across Latin America <p> In 2013 , a young woman known as Beatriz was denied an abortion in El Salvador despite her high-risk pregnancy . Beatriz died a few years later after being involved in a traffic accident but her case made it to the inter-American court of human rights ( IACHR ) . A ruling is expected soon and could open the way for El Salvador to decriminalize abortions , setting an important precedent across the region . Before the IACHR ruling , however , it looks like activists linked to the US hard right are running a disinformation campaign trying to discredit the case and attacking feminists involved with it . <h> The week in pawtriarchy <p> This week in cat stats : women who owned a cat but no dog overwhelmingly voted for Kamala Harris in the election . Meanwhile , I 'm afraid to report that dog owners leaned towards Trump , according to AP VoteCast 's survey of more than 120,000 voters . Talk about paw choices .
