<h> Letters to the Editor <p> Madam , -- Pace Andrew Brown ( Press , 22 November ) , others of us did speak in defence of Archbishop Welby : I , for instance , both on Newsnight ( 18 November ) and in the Independent ( 19 November ) . <p> I 'll say again what I said then . Nothing would have made any difference in 2013 . How can I know with such certainty ? Because our daughter walked into a police station after I blew the whistle on Smyth ( Mail on Sunday , 2012 ) with my article in her hand and tried to give them his identity . The police were not interested . They refused even to log it . <p> As late as 2017 , they were n't : which is why ( I was told at the time ) Channel 4 News approached Smyth unilaterally , thus alerting him to flee the country . Police had repeatedly done nothing . A close friend gave very similar evidence that same year , and police still could n't recognise criminal activity : it took several years and a different force to take the matter forward to prosecution . <p> As for suggesting that anyone would have taken the slightest notice in the 1980s : " Indeed , sir ? You wish to report schoolboys being beaten ? And would you also like to tell us that fish swim in the sea ? " <p> The reason that I wrote in 2012 and not before was because , post-Savile , we were all more aware . We had started to recognise things that we had n't seen before . If I had pitched the same article a few months -- let alone years -- earlier , it would n't have got past conference . <p> Why do we need all these endless , pointless ( and , in the case of Makin , invidiously speculative and perhaps actionable ) " reports " ? Because we are too stupid , too cowardly , and too historically amnesiac to face the blindingly obvious : Smyth did very wicked and terrible things , most people who knew him had no idea , and police did n't act when they could have done . <p> Advertisement <p> And now some very good people have been vilified for being in the wrong place at the wrong time and reacting as any of us might have done . <p> ANNE ATKINSObservatory House6 The CrescentBedford MK40 2RU <p> From the Revd Dr David Heywood <p> Madam , -- Professor Veronica Hope Hailey ( Comment , 22 November ) demonstrates convincingly that restoring trust in the Church requires radical reform . The Makin report echoes several previous reports in lamenting the lack of accountability which allowed those in authority to overlook and minimise the effects of abusive behaviour . <p> Would it , therefore , be an opportune moment to point out that no diocesan bishop is subject to any effective means of accountability ? The Church 's patriarchal and paternalistic culture ( little changed since the days of male-only bishops ) allows and expects each to function as a little king or queen in their own diocese . <p> Surveying the hierarchical systems of his own day , in which people in power were often looked up to and viewed as benefactors , Jesus was succinct in his response : " It shall not be so among you " ( Luke 22.26 ) . It would seem that repentance is long overdue . <p> DAVID HEYWOOD5 Scholars Walk , QuedgeleyGloucester GL2 4SQ <p> From Dr Margaret Wilkinson <p> Madam , -- While our thoughts are quite rightly with those who have experienced church-related abuse as children , we must also acknowledge the problems faced by adults who do not meet the criteria for vulnerability , but who , nevertheless , experience church-related abuse . This may have been domestic abuse , spiritual abuse , sexual abuse , or other forms of abuse . <p> Those who have suffered encounter the now well-documented problems faced by survivors of church-related child abuse , including reluctance to accept that such abuse occurs , obfuscation , failure to act , and lack of accountability . <p> The Church as an institution appears reluctant to recognise the need to respond to such situations , despite the well understood problems that arise from the abuse of power and of deference . <p> MARGARET WILKINSON27 River Grove ParkBeckenhamKent BR3 1HX <p> From the Rt Revd Dr Peter Selby <p> Madam , -- In your leader comment ( 15 November ) , you impute rather dubious motives to bishops who did not join the Bishop of Newcastle in calling for the Archbishop of Canterbury 's resignation ; she herself has spoken of them even more negatively . I think it more likely that they trusted the Archbishop , through his prayers , and the private support and advice that he will have received , to reach the right decision , even if he could n't make public the stages of his reflection . <p> Advertisement <p> And , unlike the Bishop of Newcastle , they will have had regard to the principle that publicly attacking fellow bishops , let alone calling for their resignation , is a freedom that you give up when you accept office as a diocesan bishop ; and you certainly do n't make public their private letters to you . Such action by survivors who experienced Smyth 's abuse and the Church 's neglect is completely justified ; bishops acting in that way will certainly not make the Church a safer place : quite the opposite . <p> That is even more the case when the Bishop of Newcastle cites the " reputation " of the diocese of Newcastle as a reason for denying Lord Sentamu permission to officiate , when among the most telling criticisms of the Church 's handling of cases of abuse is precisely that it has given priority to reputation over justice and care for individuals . <p> As Lord Sentamu 's bishop for seven years , and then later as bishop of the diocese neighbouring his , I had the privilege of gaining much from his extraordinary combination of wisdom , courage , and friendship . When he and Lady Sentamu decided to move to Berwick , I was delighted to think that a diocese in which I had served , and its bishop in particular , would benefit from such a remarkable resource . <p> Sadly , Dr Hartley 's unjust treatment of Lord Sentamu , and her intransigence in the face of requests to reconsider the matter , while inflicting hurt primarily on him , bring with them , if she but knew it , a serious loss to her and to the diocese , including , of course , harm to its reputation . <p> PETER SELBYAssistant bishop , diocese of SouthwarkAddress supplied <p> From Mrs Pam Walker <p> Madam , -- After a long career in safeguarding , and in response to last week 's correspondence , I would like to point out three fundamentals of safeguarding , which I fear some in the Church have failed to grasp . <p> First , there is no excuse for abuse , for enabling abuse , for denying and minimising abuse , for hiding evidence of abuse , for choosing not to deal with abuse . <p> Second , safeguarding is everyone 's responsibility , no matter how important or unimportant their part in an organisation . <p> Third , safeguarding is not an agenda item that can be moved down the agenda as other issues take precedence . Instead , it should underpin everything that an organisation -- in this instance , the Church -- does . <p> PAM WALKERThe Tower HouseHartburn , Morpeth NE61 4JB <p> From Canon Stephen Mitchell <p> Madam , -- The Bishop of Guildford may be right in saying " Abusers espouse all theologies and none " ( " Reckoning time for Evangelicals " , News , 22 November ) ; but that does n't let theology off the hook . <p> Advertisement <p> A theology that robs people of self-worth , agency , curiosity , and experiences of God outside the confines of church is abusive . Priests who seek to mirror their all-knowing , all-powerful , and all-loving God fail to give their parishioners strength to resist abuse . Theories of atonement which portray God as an abusive father are no comfort to victims of abuse . <p> Madam , -- The Revd Jonathan Frais ( Letters , 22 November ) discusses the similarities between the warring nations Russia and Israel . He turns Canon Paul Oestreicher 's arguements ( Comment , 8 November ) around , claiming that there are very few similarities . <p> He claims : Israel did not launch the latest invasion . This flies in the face of news reports over the past 12 months or so . Israel has invaded Lebanon , as it has before , not to mention Gaza over the years . Israel warns civilians of impending attack : the Israel Defense Force 's cynical warnings are made in the knowledge that you ca n't just up sticks and move your elderly and children suddenly . Then the IDF creates casualties of whom most are women and children . <p> Israel is a tiny state : it is a nuclear state , size is irrelevant when you are backed by the United States and the UK . Israel offered to forgo land : over the years it is has been consuming territory in the West Bank , removing generations of landowners and destroying agricultural land . <p> Israel is a proper democracy with a free press . Really ? It has just censored its own well-established Haaretz newspaper and had previously banned Al Jazeera from reporting within the country . It is a plus that LGBT rights are protected , but , as for Israels claim to have biblical and archaeological evidence for its existence , the Bible also tells us that the Israelites achieved that by driving out the occupants of the land that they invaded , not to mention getting rid of foreign wives from exile . Nothing has changed . <p> ROBIN PATERSON22 Manston WayLeeds LS15 8BR <p> From Roger Backhouse <p> Madam , -- There indeed is a case for Israel 's democracy and comparatively free press , as made by the Revd Jonathan Frais . Attacks by Hamas were indeed barbaric and gave Israel worldwide sympathy . <p> Unfortunately , Israel was established using terrorist methods , including hostage-taking , assassinations , and violence driving Arabs from their homes . As is well documented in the Church Times , Israel 's forces currently encourage land grabs and expulsion of inhabitants , including Christians , in the West Bank and Negev . Anywhere else and by any other country , that would be called ethnic cleansing , if not genocide . Freer democracies , however commendable , lose credence when they busily oppress others . <p> Advertisement <p> I am no theologian , but the argument that there is biblical and archaeological reason for Israel 's present existence is rather thin . That " This land was given to us by God , " which I have heard from Jewish friends , and which Mr Frais presumably consider a reason for Israel , begs the question that if God gave the land , why should he not also take it away ? At least two ultra-orthodox groups argue , logically enough , that the establishment of modern Israel was an anti-messianic act and one that is sinful . <p> ROGER BACKHOUSE11 Orchard RoadUpper PoppletonYork YO26 6HF <p> From the Revd Nathan Eddy <p> Madam , -- The Jewish festival of Chanukah , marking the rededication of the Jerusalem temple in the second century BCE , begins this year on the evening of the 25 December . This Advent , as we in the Church ponder the coming of the Prince of Peace and the mysteries of God 's ways , we do well also to remember our Jewish neighbours -- and neighbours of other faiths -- in a time of polarisation , increased prejudice , and unprecedented strain on faith relations . Good relations are n't just for Christmas -- but they are certainly important this time of year , of all years . <p> Madam , -- Your report of Lord Harries 's finding nuclear deterrence awesome to support and then linking it to cyber threats ( News , 8 November ) prompted me to look up the debate in Hansard on 31 October . For such an important issue , I was surprised that it lasted less than an hour and only 11 peers spoke , all in favour . I wondered where other church voices were . <p> In 2018 , the General Synod carried a motion recommitting the Church to peacemaking and calling for the elimination of nuclear weapons ( News , 9 July 2018 ) . Is this still the thinking and will of the Church of England as a whole and , if so , what has it been doing about it ?
