<h> Israeli military kills four doctors in raid on Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza , eyewitnesses say <p> Shrouded bodies line the courtyard of Kamal Adwan Hospital , as Palestinians survey destruction wrought by an Israeli military raid on the medical facility in northern Gaza , on December 6 . <p> AFP/Getty Images <p> CNN -- <p> Four doctors were killed at Kamal Adwan Hospital in besieged northern Gaza on Friday , after Israeli forces stormed the compound , killing and injuring dozens of people in surrounding areas , eyewitnesses told CNN . <p> Israeli troops also forced health care workers and patients to leave the facility , and destroyed critical medical supplies , according to a statement by Dr Hussam Abu Saifya , the hospital director . <p> In the early hours of Friday , the Israeli military sent two plain clothed messengers into the hospital , who told people over a megaphone to evacuate , Abu Saifya added . The military detained a " large number " of young men in the two-hour raid , including health workers and Palestinians who had sought refuge , added Abu Saifya . <p> Israeli quadcopters unleashed a blaze of " intense and direct fire " as military vehicles encircled the facility , Abu Saifya recalled , before corralling patients , displaced people and health workers in the courtyard and forcibly taking them to a checkpoint further south , towards Gaza City . <p> " Initially , there was a series of airstrikes on the northern and western sides of the hospital , accompanied by intense and direct fire , " Abu Saifya said in a statement on Friday . " They approached me and ordered me to evacuate all patients , displaced persons , and medical staff , gathering everyone in the hospital 's courtyard and forcibly taking them to the checkpoint . <p> " In the morning , we were shocked to see hundreds of bodies and wounded individuals in the streets surrounding the hospital , " the doctor added . " The situation is catastrophic in northern Gaza , particularly in the vicinity of Kamal Adwan Hospital . " <p> Members of an Indonesian medical delegation -- the only team performing surgery at Kamal Adwan -- were among those forced to leave and not allowed to return , according to Abu Saifya . <p> Hours later , the Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) withdrew from one of the last remaining functioning facilities in northern Gaza . Hospital staffers and patients left the facility to find hundreds of bodies and wounded people lining surrounding streets , Abu Saifya added . <p> A photo posted by Abu Saifya on social media showed at least 17 shrouded bodies laying on the hospital courtyard . Another 20 people were left injured and " in need of urgent care , " he said . The Israeli military severely damaged oxygen generators overnight , Abu Saifya told CNN , saying there are now just two " inexperienced " surgeons available to administer life-saving care at the hospital . <p> The Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) denied striking or operating within Kamal Adwan Hospital in a statement to CNN , instead saying that its forces fought " against terror infrastructure and terrorists " in the nearby Jabalya area . <p> " IDF troops continue to operate against terror infrastructure and terrorists in the Jabaliya area , including adjacent to the Kamal Adwan Hospital , " it said . " Simultaneously , in recent weeks , coordinated efforts with international organizations have been underway in order to transfer patients , companions , and medical staff to other hospitals which are operating in the Gaza Strip . " <p> The statement added that the IDF is in " continuous contact " with Kamal Adwan to deliver supplies and equipment . According to COGAT , the Israeli agency that manages policy for the Palestinian territories and the flow of aid into the strip , 161 aid trucks entered Gaza on December 4 . <p> There was no official evacuation order ahead of the raid on Kamal Adwan Hospital , according to a United Nations official . " People started to climb the wall to escape , and this panic attracted IDF fire , " the UN health 's agency representative for the Occupied Palestinian Territory , Rik Peeperkorn , said on Friday . <p> Health workers nurse Palestinians injured by the Israeli military in Kamal Adwan Hospital , in Beit Lahya on December 6 , 2024 . Israeli forces stormed the facility on Friday , killing at least four doctors <p> AFP/Getty Images <p> Human rights agencies have repeatedly accused Israel of subjecting residents in parts of northern Gaza to relocation or starvation . Since October , 2023 , 58% of 273 missions led by the UN 's World Health Organization were denied , canceled or impeded , the agency said on Friday . <h> ' All forms of killing and violence ' <p> The attack on Friday was the second such raid by the Israeli military since forces sprung an incursion on three cities in northern Gaza on October 5 , razing entire streets , spawning severe hunger and leaving emergency crews unable to rescue people wounded by the onslaught . <p> The Israeli military has said the assault is targeting Hamas ' renewed presence there . More than 3,700 Palestinians have been killed , according to Gaza 's Government Media Office ( GMO ) . Another 10,000 people have been injured , the GMO said on Monday . <p> At least 30 people were killed by Israeli bombing on houses around Kamal Adwan overnight , according to Dr Munir Al Bursh , the director general of the Ministry of Health in Gaza . <p> CNN footage from Kamal Adwan Hospital on Friday shows a huge orange blaze lighting a pile of rubble in the courtyard . Inside the facility , medical workers nursed injured Palestinians , including young children . Many of those moaned from the pain of open wounds , while others lay motionless on the floor . <p> In another clip filmed outside the hospital , dozens of men could be seen looking around helplessly , and trying to lift wounded people heaped under thick layers of debris . <p> On Thursday , an Israeli drone struck and killed a 16-year-old boy in a separate attack as he was entering the hospital 's X-ray department in a wheelchair , Abu Saifya told CNN . The teenager , Mahmoud Abu Al-Eish had been wheeled to the facility by his sister , who is a nurse at the hospital , Abu Saifya said . Another man in his thirties was also killed . <p> CNN has reached out to the Israeli military for comment on Abu Saifya 's allegations . <p> At least 1,050 health workers have been killed since Israel launched its war in Gaza after the Hamas-led October 7 attacks , according to the Ministry of Health in Ramallah . The Israeli military launched a renewed incursion on three cities in northern Gaza on October 5 , saying it is targeting Hamas ' renewed presence in the area . <p> " Kamal Adwan Hospital is now being subjected to a new war crime , and the occupation forces are practicing all forms of killing and violence in it and around it , " the health ministry in Ramallah said on Friday . " The remaining wounded inside it are suffering from severe wounds and are in immediate need of treatment . <p> " For more than a year , the ministry has been appealing on a daily basis to provide protection for treatment centers , health cadres , ambulance crews and vehicles and volunteer medical teams , to stop the aggression , and to allow the entry of urgent medical supplies and the exit of the wounded for treatment . "
