<p> The city of Homs has witnessed an outpouring of emotions this evening . Many are celebrating what they believe to be the imminent fall of the Assad regime , and others have begun tearing down images of the president . Here is a clip we 've looped from the centre of Homs , filmed at the Officers ' Club hotel . <h> Summary of the day <p> It is approaching 1am in Beirut , Tel Aviv and Gaza City , and 2am in Damascus . <p> Syrian rebel commander Hassan Abdul-Ghani said early on Sunday that insurgent forces had " fully liberated " Syria 's central city of Homs , Reuters confirms . Homs is a city of strategic and hugely symbolic importance to the militants and to the opposition as a whole . <p> Syrian opposition forces have begun to encircle the capital city of Damascus after a lightning offensive brought rebel factions to Bashar al-Assad 's doorstep and led the president 's office to deny he had fled the country . <p> Government forces have withdrawn from much of the central city of Homs , according to a Syrian opposition war monitor and a pro-government media outlet . <p> Speaking in Doha , the UN special envoy for Syria , Geir Pedersen , said he had secured the joint agreement from the foreign ministers of Turkey , Iran and Russia to hold urgent talks in Geneva with a date to be agreed upon shortly . <p> Protesters brought down the statue of the late father of the Syrian president , Bashar al-Assad , in a main square in Jaramana suburb , nearly 10km from the centre of Damascus . <p> The UN in Syria denied rumours that it was evacuating all staff from the country , but confirmed that it is " strategically reducing its footprint by relocating non-critical staff outside the country " . <p> At least 30 Palestinians were killed in Israeli airstrikes on Gaza on Saturday , according to local health officials . <p> Lebanon 's health ministry said on Saturday that Israeli airstrikes had killed six people in the country 's south , just 10 days into a ceasefire between Hezbollah and Israel . <p> Syrian opposition forces have begun to encircle the capital city of Damascus after a lightning offensive brought rebel factions to Bashar al-Assad 's doorstep and led the president 's office to deny he had already fled the country . <p> The advance came just a week after Islamist insurgents led by Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) retook Aleppo in northern Syria , inspiring rebel factions all across the country to rise up against the Syrian army . <p> Overnight , opposition factions in the southern provinces of Daraa and Suwayda routed government forces and took control over wide swathes of the district . By the afternoon , opposition fighters had entered Daraya , about 5 miles from the centre of the capital . East of Damascus , members of the Free Syrian Army took control over the ancient city of Palmyra . <p> As rebels advanced from the south and east towards the capital city , forces led by HTS began fighting the Syrian army in the central Syrian city of Homs . Homs is a strategic asset for the Syrian government , linking it to Tartous and Latakia -- provinces where Assad has traditionally enjoyed strong support . <p> Syrian state media reported that government forces were concentrating on stopping HTS 's advance in Homs , carrying out heavy airstrikes on rebel forces there and sending reinforcements to the central Syrian city . <p> If Homs were to fall to the rebels , the government would be besieged in Damascus . Opposition forces would be advancing from the north , south and east of the country . <p> The government in neighbouring Iraq said that 2,000 Syrian soldiers had fled across their border . Al Jazeera showed footage of Syrian tanks and other military vehicles packed with soldiers crossing into Iraq . <h> Rebel leader says insurgents combing Homs after government army flees <p> An insurgent commander said that forces spearheaded by Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham are combing Homs after forces loyal to Damascus have fled . <p> " An incursion into the neighbourhoods of the city is now underway and we are combing it in preparation for declaring it completely liberated , " said LtCol Hassan Abdul-Ghani in a statement . <p> Homs is a city of strategic and hugely symbolic importance to the militants and to the opposition as a whole . The city is a key juncture on the highway that leads to the capital Damascus , connecting it with coastal regions traditionally loyal to Assad . <p> It also saw some of the fiercest fighting in the early years of Syria 's civil war , when rebels battled to seize neighbourhoods from president Bashar al-Assad 's control . <p> The loss of Homs would mean that Syria 's major provincial capitals would no longer be controlled by Assad 's regime in Damascus , fundamentally altering his grip on the country his family has ruled for decades . <h> Rebel fighters claim to have entered key city of Homs - report <p> William Christou <p> Syrian opposition media reports that Syrian government forces have withdrawn from Homs city and fighters from Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) have entered the city proper . <p> Videos showed members of state security branches fleeing their posts in Homs before the rebel advance . Syrian state media did not acknowledge the loss of the city , but said that HTS fighters had entered the city 's suburbs and outlying villages . <p> If Homs were to fall to rebels , Damascus would be cut off from Tartous and Latakia -- coastal provinces where Bashar al-Assad has historically enjoyed strong support . Rebel forces would then be approaching the country 's capital city from the north from Homs , from the south from Daraa and Suwayda province and from the east from the ancient city of Palmyra . <p> Lebanon 's health ministry said on Saturday that Israeli airstrikes had killed six people in the country 's south , just 10 days into a ceasefire between Hezbollah and Israel . <p> Agence France-Presse reports that both Israel and the Iran-backed Hezbollah have been accused of violating the truce , which took effect on 27 November to end a conflict that has left thousands dead in Lebanon and caused mass displacement on both sides . <p> According to the ministry , " The Israeli enemy 's airstrike on the town of Beit Lif resulted in the martyrdom of five people and the injury of five others . " It added that a separate drone strike killed one person in the town of Deir Seryan . <h> Residents of isolated Syrian refugee camp liberated after more than 10 years <p> William Christou <p> Residents of al-Rukban camp rejoiced on Saturday night , after the Syrian army soldiers which had enforced a more than six-year-long siege on the camp abandoned their positions and fled . <p> Al-Rukban , a camp formed in 2014 in the arid no man 's land between Syria and Jordan , houses about 10,000 refugees who fled the Syrian government 's crackdown on protesters during the country 's revolution . In 2018 , the Syrian army and the Jordanian government imposed a siege on the camp , forcing residents to survive on meager amounts of food brought in periodically by a few smugglers . <p> " I can not describe the feelings , the words do n't exist . I will be able to return to my village after 14 years , " said Yasser , a resident of the camp originally from a village outside Homs in central Syria speaking under a pseudonym in case government forces returned . Yasser had read a few hours earlier that the Syrian army had been driven out of his home town by rebels led by the Islamist group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) as part of its attempt to take Homs city . <p> Pictures sent to the guardian showed Syrian army vehicles , tanks and artillery abandoned where soldiers had fled or had been killed by members of the Free Syrian Army . The Free Syrian Army had patrolled the 55-kilometer demilitarized zone around the camp , supervised by US forces as part of its global coalition to defeat the Islamic State . <p> On Saturday , the Free Syrian Army had broken out of the demilitarized zone , killing the remaining Syrian army soldiers and capturing the ancient city of Palmyra . <p> Leaving al-Rukban had been a dream for Yasser and for the other camp residents . Living conditions in the camp had deteriorated in recent years , with food and medical supplies scarce . Syrian soldiers had tightened their siege on the camp , preventing smugglers from reaching the camp . During the last survey of a UN clinic before it closed down in 2020 , almost 100% of children under five who went to the clinic were malnourished . <p> Still , camp residents had to wait before they could return home . The area around the demilitarized zone had been heavily mined , and would take some time to clear . <p> " We have to wait around 20 days . I will be counting every second , " Yasser said . <p> Amid rampant speculation as to the whereabouts of President Bashar al-Assad as the rebel offensive presses ever closer to the capital , Bloomberg 's Sam Dagher reports that the leader of an increasingly shrinking rump state is making a last-ditch effort to hold on to power . This includes indirect diplomatic overtures to the US and President-elect Donald Trump . <p> One proposal , according to Dagher , conveyed through the United Arab Emirates , offers to sever Syria 's ties with Iran-backed militant groups like Hezbollah -- but only if western powers use their influence to curb the fighting . <p> Assad has ordered his army to retreat and focus on defending Damascus , effectively relinquishing control of much of the country . <p> As government forces withdraw from cities and towns across Syria , there is a scramble to preserve documents that could be used to hold members of President Bashar al-Assad 's regime to account for crimes against humanity . The Syrian journalist Qusay Noor points to video that appears to show " a huge warehouse of records and reports on citizens in the Political Security Branch " in the city of Suwayda . <p> Allow content provided by a third party ? <p> This article includes content hosted on embed.bsky.app . We ask for your permission before anything is loaded , as the provider may be using cookies and other technologies . To view this content , click ' Allow and continue ' . <p> But , according toRim Turkmani , director of the Syria conflict research programme at the London School of Economics : " The notorious State Security branch of Mukhabarat in Homs has evacuated its building , setting tons of documents -- evidence of their crimes -- ablaze on the roof . Friends in the city witnessed the evacuation from their balconies , and now , many in Homs are overwhelmed with tears of relief and joy . " <p> " As opposition forces continue to take control of key sites across Syria -- central offices , prisons , political , intelligence offices , and military branches -- we are witnessing a historical moment in the search for justice ! " Rawan Shaif of Amnesty International notes on Bluesky . " These documents are not just pieces of paper -- they are the threads that connect us to the past and to the hope for accountability . They hold the potential to expose the full extent of the crimes committed and the perpetrators behind them . They are essential for holding individuals , command , and perpetrators accountable and ensuring that justice is pursued . But the road ahead requires preservation ; these materials , these records and accounts , must be safeguarded , archived , and kept secure . Some incredibly emotional times ahead , but the work is just beginning . "
