<h> Follow us <h> Why Syria is more relevant today than before <p> Facing a surprise attack on Aleppo by opposition groups , Damascus is in a position of strength after years of rebuilding regional ties <p> A rebel fighter carries a weapon as he stands at the entrance of Saraqeb town in northwestern Idlib province , Syria on 1 December 2024 ( Reuters ) <p> Amid the swift and stunning collapse of Aleppo following an assault led by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , which is internationally sanctioned as a terrorist group , it is important to pause and recall that we have been here before . <p> The advance by HTS and Turkish-backed rebels in Syria suggests that Turkey is playing its cards before US president-elect Donald Trump takes office , driven by its existential fear of a Kurdish enclave in northern Syria . <p> Turkey had been frustrated with Syrian President Bashar al-Assad 's repeated refusal to come to the negotiating table and meet with Turkish President Recep Tayyib Erdogan , although both Syrian and Turkish defence and intelligence chiefs have met regularly in Russia . <p> Al-Assad has been negotiating through his ministers while relying on the UAE , Saudi Arabia and Russia for the diplomatic push . <p> Yet , while the finger of blame has been pointed at Turkey , the Israel factor can not be discounted . <h> New MEE newsletter : Jerusalem Dispatch <h> Sign up to get the latest insights and analysis on Israel-Palestine , alongside Turkey Unpacked and other MEE newsletters <p> Just days before the fall of Aleppo , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu threatened Syria against facilitating aid to Hezbollah - and it is no coincidence that this crisis began shortly after the Lebanon ceasefire was finalised . <p> It was almost timed perfectly to suggest that there has been some sort of nod to the armed groups in Idlib . Some Syrian opposition groups have acknowledgedthat Israel 's ceasefire helped them . Turkish-backed groups went so far as to thank Israel and further said they want good relations with Tel Aviv . <h> A key difference <p> But while many observers assert that Assad is on the ropes , his main backers , Russia and Iran , are already flexing their military and diplomatic muscle - and unlike the previous time Assad was in trouble in 2012 , major players in the region , including Saudi Arabia , the UAE , Jordan and Iraq , are publicly backing Syria 's sovereignty . Iraq said it shall help Syria militarily as well . <p> With the exception of Qatar , all Arab ambassadors are back in Damascus - and since the fall of Aleppo , there has been a reaffirmation of support for Syria , marking a key difference from when the conflict was viewed as a civil war . <p> Indeed , as Aleppo was falling , the UAE and US were on the verge of potentially removing sanctions on Syria . Assad must now finally take their advice on rapprochement with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan before the situation spirals out of control . <p> There has been much talk of increased tensions in the occupied Golan Heights , with Israel violating the 1973 buffer zone as it ordered some army units to move out of the demarcated UN line since 1973 , almost as if they anticipated trouble to create a buffer zone like in Lebanon along the Litani river . <p> Amid the reordering of Lebanon , one thing that has stood the test of time is Syria 's ability to remain relevant , despite all the damage it has incurred <p> At the same time , there has been a quiet flurry of diplomatic activity in recent months , from the Italians to the Saudis , placing Assad centre-stage for a potential new shakeup in the Levant . <p> A number of EU countries , led by Italy , are calling for a major rethink of ties with Syria , spurred by the need to engage Assad for their own migration and security issues . Erdogan is almost begging Assad for a meeting , and with the UAE already increasing aid to Syria to help displaced Lebanese people , Damascus is set to regain a key role in the region after the dust settles in Beirut and Gaza . <p> Syria has carefully maintained a low profile during Israel 's genocidal war on Gaza . Whilst being a key member of the axis of resistance for the last 40 years , Syria has not been averse to talking or doing deals with Israel . It has at numerous timesalmost solved the issue of Golan , so it knows the balance . <p> US President Donald Trump 's new Arab envoy , Massad Boulos , is a political ally of Assad 's best friend in Lebanon , Suleiman Frangieh , who is one of the key candidates for the presidency . <p> Those who know the history of Lebanon and the Palestine Liberation Organisation ( PLO ) will know just how critical Syria is to the delicate balance of the region 's unorthodox relationships , which are not quite as black and white as they seem . Everything is not simply what faraway DC analysts label as " Shia versus Sunni " . <p> A recent report outlines how , in the lead-up to Iran 's 1979 revolution , Syria refused safe passage to Iran 's Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini to avoid further antagonising Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein . Prominent Syrian journalist Ibrahim Hamidi goes further in explaining the nuances of what Syria was trying to achieve in Lebanon and Palestine , as Syrian troops and allies sometimes clashed with Hezbollah to protect their own interests . <p> But the Israelis know that for any final peace with the Palestinian people , there must first be an understanding with Damascus . <p> Similarly , Hamas 's recent U-turn on its relationship with Syria - alongside Israeli support for Syrian armed groups against Assad , and Tel Aviv 's now-famous contention that there would have been no Syrian uprising " if Assad made peace with us " - show how intricately linked the Palestinian file is to Syria 's endgame for Israel . <p> To be clear , Syria is under no illusions : half the country has been reduced to rubble . But its strength has never been an all-out powerful military or strategic arms advantage . It is what author David Lesch has called Syria 's ability to punch above its weight . <p> It is Syria 's ability to outlast its opponents and ride out the storm , rather than beating its opponents into submission . Assad , despite Israel 's frequent strikes on Iranian targets in Damascus , has not taken any retaliatory actions that could further raise Israel 's ire . <h> Pivot from Iran to Gulf <p> Similarly , according to Hamidi , who is one of the well-informed Syrian journalists , Syria has clamped down on the activities of Hezbollah and Iran-affiliated militias in the country , with Russian help - leading some analysts to question the viability of Iran-Syria ties . <p> While Iran is not quitting Syria , Damascus has other options , as the UAE and Saudi Arabia are helping Syria with the influx of Lebanese refugees , and the EU views strengthened ties with Damascus as a potential way to mitigate its own migration problems . <p> While Syria depends on Russia and Iran militarily , its global diplomatic support has increased , from Italy , to Saudi Arabia , to China <p> Perhaps the most important element of Assad 's pivotal role in the current mess is Erdogan 's eagerness to meet him . Assad has so far rejected these overtures , saying it would not be an easy path to reconciliation with Turkey . Erdogan , however , has been pleading with Russia to bring Syria to the table . This rejection appears to have prompted Turkish-backed groups to reshuffle the cards in northern Aleppo . <p> The big " so what " from all of this is that even in Syria 's diminished capacity , after more than a decade of war , almost every month we are seeing more ambassadors and global leaders return to Damascus . <p> They see Assad as the best option not just for Syria , but also to help both the Syrian and Lebanese refugees -who fled Lebanon during the recent war - and to resolve the deadlock of the Lebanese presidency . More than a year ago , France acquiesced to a plan to push Assad 's best friend , Frangieh , as the best candidate for president in Lebanon , against the wishes of other European allies . <p> Amid the reordering of Lebanon , one thing that has stood the test of time is Syria 's ability to remain relevant , despite all the damage it has incurred . While Syria depends on Russia and Iran militarily , its global diplomatic support has increased , from Italy , to Saudi Arabia , to China - and this will eventually decide the future of Syria , and the region . <p> The views expressed in this article belong to the author and do not necessarily reflect the editorial policy of Middle East Eye . <p> Kamal Alam specialises in contemporary military history of the Middle East . He was a Fellow at the Royal United Services Institute from 2015 to 2019 . Currently , he is a Fellow at The Institute for Statecraft and a non-resident Senior Fellow at the Atlantic Council , and he lectures at several military staff colleges across the Middle East . <p> Middle East Eye delivers independent and unrivalled coverage and analysis of the Middle East , North Africa and beyond . To learn more about republishing this content and the associated fees , please fill out this form . More about MEE can be found here .
