<p> The atrocity ordered and masterminded by Sinwar , the late leader of Hamas , on Oct 7 last year has proved similarly momentous , its consequences reverberating well beyond the slaughter grounds of the kibbutzim on Gaza 's borders . <p> Each wave has weakened Iran , hurting its regional ambitions of dominance , diminishing its stature and prising loose its network of proxies and clients across the Middle East . <p> The latest , of greater magnitude than most expected , is washing over Syria so fast that it has triggered headlong panic in Tehran . <p> Amid the dawning realisation that the Assad regime was probably unsalvageable , the Iranian government scrambled to evacuate its diplomats and military officers from Damascus . <p> So undignified and frenzied was the scramble for the exits it took a while for stunned Middle East observers to realise that Iran was essentially scuttling its decade-long mission to prop up the regime of Bashar al-Assad and abandon the Syrian dictator to his fate . <p> With rebels on the outskirts of Damascus and rumours that Assad had fled , the last significant element of Iran 's network of proxies and clients across the Middle East seemed to be toppling at breakneck speed . <p> " Normally empires collapse gradually and then suddenly , " said a Western diplomat with years of experience in the Middle East . " But Iran 's informal empire , its network of influence , is , by historical standards , collapsing very fast . An emergency recalibration is now under way in Tehran . " <p> Others liken it to the helplessness with which the communist regime in Moscow watched the unravelling of the Warsaw Pact in the late 1980s . <p> Whether such comparisons are overblown remains to be seen , but Western diplomats , analysts and even members of the Iranian armed forces and political establishment acknowledge that Tehran 's options are dwindling . <p> If the regime is to shore up its weakening position , they say , Iran will probably either have to adopt pragmatism and enter into genuine , meaningful negotiations with the West -- or it will have to race to build a nuclear warhead . <p> As it scrambles to adjust to the unpredictability of Donald Trump 's incoming administration , it may well seek to do both . <p> In the past week , the Iranian government has sent out conflicting messages . <p> Mohammad Javad Zarif , one of Iran 's 15 vice-presidents , called for negotiations over the country 's nuclear programme , saying that Masoud Pezeshkian , Iran 's new , ostensibly reform-minded president , wanted to " engage constructively with the West " and " manage tensions " with the United States . <p> At the same time , however , both the United Nations and the US intelligence agencies have concluded that Tehran has rapidly escalated work on building a nuclear weapon . <p> A report released on Thursday by the office of Avril Haines , the US director of national intelligence , warned that Iran had now accumulated enough material to make more than a dozen nuclear weapons . <p> The following day , Rafael Grossi , the UN 's chief nuclear inspector , confirmed that Iran was quadrupling its stockpile of uranium enriched to 60 per cent , close to the level needed for a nuclear weapon . <p> In other words , Iran is close to reaching a juncture at which it may have to decide whether it goes all-in on all-out , at least for a while , on its nuclear programme . Amid evidence of division and recrimination within the regime , it is not a position that Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , Iran 's supreme leader , wanted to find himself in -- not yet , anyway . <p> A year ago , the ayatollah was in a much more comfortable position , protected -- so he believed -- by a network of proxy and allied militias in Gaza , Lebanon , Syria , Iraq and Yemen . He called them his " axis of resistance , " a " ring of fire " that would not only defend the Shia Muslim world and Iran 's dominance within it but would one day consume Israel , a country he vowed to destroy by 2040 . <p> The proxies , coupled with Tehran 's nuclear ambitions , made Iran arguably the most powerful Muslim state in the Middle East , strong enough to be feared by both Israel and the Sunni Arab countries of the Gulf . <p> Yet the proxy strategy was always a risky one . It allowed Iran to project power well beyond its borders , to make mischief and wage war at arm 's length and the luxury of deniability , however implausible . <p> But the groups it supported did not always march to the beat of Iran 's drums , sometimes pursuing agendas that did not always align with Tehran 's wishes . <p> That was particularly the case with Hamas , a Sunni outfit that may have been beholden to Iran that provided it with arms , cash and training but that appears not to have sought permission from Tehran before launching last year 's attacks . <p> Sinwar 's massacre unleashed waves of devastation that scythed through Iran 's Middle East policy as an enraged Israel took its vengeance first on Hamas and then on Hezbollah , which had joined the fray . <p> Instead of its ring of fire engulfing Israel , it blew backwards , scorching through neighbouring states and Iran 's expensively constructed militias until the heat was felt in Tehran itself . <p> Within little more than a year , Israel had severely weakened both movements , killing both Sinwar and Hassan Nasrallah , the Hezbollah leader , decapitating their high commands and eliminating thousands of their most capable fighters . <p> The impact was less obvious in Syria initially . <p> Having nearly been toppled early on in the country 's 13-year civil war , the Assad regime had turned the tide against its assorted foes thanks to Russia 's bombers and Iran 's support on the ground , much of it supplied by Hezbollah , essentially becoming an Iranian client state in the process . <p> Yet the truth was that , with Hezbollah teetering , a vacuum had opened up in Syria , an opportunity Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , a former al-Qaeda affiliate that broke away in 2017 , had spent years training and preparing for . <p> Sweeping down from its bases in the north , it seized Aleppo , which Assad 's forces had battled for four years to reconquer , in just four days , before capturing Hama , a city that had never previously fallen to the rebels , racing through shattered Homs by Saturday morning and reaching the outskirts of Damascus just hours later . <h> In no position to save Assad <p> Yet in the face of this dramatic change of fortune Iran looked on impotently , concluding that , without Hezbollah , it was impossible to save Assad for a second time . <p> As the situation unfolded , staggered Iranian military insiders spoke of their deep frustration at how the demoralised and underpaid Syrian army , always feeble beyond a handful of elite brigades , had simply turned tail as the rebels advanced . <p> " Many were surprised by their swift advance and are reluctant to offer full support and send forces this time , " one said . " Some of them say that he Assad has had 10 years to prevent this but did nothing because he knew we would be there for him . " <p> The cost of the Assad regime falling would be huge for Iran . Syria is a vital land bridge that allows it to resupply Hezbollah . A rebel victory would effectively isolate the Lebanese movement , leaving the sea the only route for rearmament , a far from ideal option . Without Syria , Iran is deeply enfeebled . <p> While it had other proxies in Syria in the form of Pakistani and Afghan Shia units , which Tehran ordered to fall back on Damascus in a desperate attempt to hold the capital , even this was an acknowledgement that neither was capable enough to hold the lime , let alone launch a counter-attack . <p> Even Iran 's Shia militias in Iraq were of no use . Not only was there not enough time to deploy them , but ordering them to deploy across the border would have further strained ties between Baghdad and Tehran , according to analysts . <p> Effectively shorn of its axis of resistance , Iran 's horizons have narrowed to a choice between pragmatism and , quite literally , going nuclear . <h> Pragmatism in the past <p> Iran has pursued pragmatism in the past , adopting warmer relations with the West during the presidency of Ali Akbar Rafsanjani from 1989 to 1997 . With Mr Pezeshkian in office , such a route is more plausible . <p> The question , however , is whether Mr Trump would be willing to countenance a rapprochement with Iran . <p> Although fond of making a deal , particularly one he could represent as a swift foreign policy triumph , there are plenty of Iran hawks in his cabinet , said Daniel Roth , research director at United Against Nuclear Iran , an advocacy group headed by Jeb Bush , the former governor of Florida . <p> " Many of Trump 's cabinet picks are very vocal in their anti-regime outlook , " he said . " You have people like Marco Rubio secretary of state designate who has been on the record many times about the real dangers of Iran . So ultimately I think Trump is going to go pretty hard on Iran . " <p> Sensing Iran 's weakness , Mr Trump is unlikely to countenance anything that appears to be less than the complete dismantling of its nuclear programme . <p> Tehran 's divided regime therefore faces the choice of whether it wants to be a neutralised Iran on good terms with the West or a nuclear-armed country that could drag the Middle East into all-out war . <p> As for the incoming Trump administration , it faces a moment of great opportunity -- and great danger , too .
