<p> You 'd be forgiven for forgetting that Syria is in the midst of a civil war . The battle between President Bashar al-Assad 's government and Islamist rebel forces had receded from the Middle East spotlight , giving way to the war in Gaza and other conflicts in the region -- at least until rebel forces last week shockingly took Aleppo , the country 's second-largest city . <p> The " stunning " attack on Aleppo is a " direct consequence of new wars that have erupted outside Syria 's borders , " said The Wall Street Journal . Assad withstood the rebel challenge with assistance -- often brutal -- from Russia , Iran and Lebanon-based Hezbollah . But Russia is now preoccupied with its own war in Ukraine , and Iran and Hezbollah have been worn down by fighting with Israel . For Assad 's backers , " Syria is a sideshow at best , " said the Journal . That gave the rebel group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HST ) an opening to attack . <p> It also creates more turbulence in a turbulent region . The new round of fighting " raised the prospect of another violent front reopening in the Middle East , " said The Associated Press . One particular concern is that Russia and Turkey , " each with its own interests to protect in Syria , " will be drawn back into the war , and into a battle with each other . The renewed civil war has the " potential to be really quite , quite consequential , " said Charles Lister , an analyst with the Middle East Institute . <h> What did the commentators say ? <p> The early rebel victories " could reshape the regional balance of power in ways directly affecting the U.S. , " Andrew Latham , professor of international relations at Minnesota 's Macalester College , said at The Hill . The fall of Assad would be a " devastating blow to Iran 's influence in the region . " It would also undermine Moscow 's " credibility as a reliable ally " in the region . Those developments would be a " welcome strategic gain for America , " Latham said . " The stakes are high . " <p> " Do n't write off Assad , " Jeremy Bowen said at the BBC . His regime has a " core of genuine support " among Syrians who see him as the " least bad option " compared to jihadist groups that " dominate the rebellion . " But other anti-Assad groups could rise up , and " his regime will once again be in mortal danger . " In any case , the Aleppo attack is another sign that the region 's post-Oct. 7 turmoil is not receding , Bowen said . Instead , we have yet " more proof that the war gripping the Middle East is escalating , not subsiding . " <h> What next ? <p> " Assad 's grip on power seems tenuous , " Steven A. Cook said at the Council on Foreign Relations . But it 's difficult to get a clear picture of what 's happening on the ground . There are no international journalists in the country , making the reports we do get " likely to be rife with misinformation and disinformation . " The U.S. has 900 troops in Syria on a mission to contain the Islamic State , but President-elect Donald Trump may try ( again ) to withdraw them when he takes office . Another critical issue surrounds Russia 's reaction . Vladimir Putin will want to defend his country 's position in Syria , Cook said , " but it is unclear yet whether that includes defending Assad . " <h> Sign up for Today 's Best Articles in your inbox <p> A free daily email with the biggest news stories of the day -- and the best features from TheWeek.com <p> Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over . <p> Joel Mathis is a writer with 30 years of newspaper and online journalism experience . His work also regularly appears in National Geographic and The Kansas City Star . His awards include best online commentary at the Online News Association and ( twice ) at the City and Regional Magazine Association .
