<p> Trinity College has been referred to the United Nations special rapporteur for the occupied Palestinian territories over alleged complicity in " international crimes related to Israel 's unlawful occupation " of Palestinian territories . <p> The College 's investments been submitted as evidence in a report by the UN Human Rights Council on the role of the private sector in the Israeli offensive in Gaza . The evidence was submitted by the International Centre of Justice for Palestinians ( ICJP ) . <p> The report focuses on how private businesses and universities are potentially complicit in the occupation of Palestinian territories , and how Trinity may be " aiding and abetting international crimes against Palestinians , violating Palestinians ' fundamental human rights and disregarding human rights due diligence requirements " . <p> This comes after the College 's undergraduate ( TCSU ) and postgraduate ( BA Society ) student unions launched an open letter campaign , urging the College to cut ties with arms companies . <p> The letter , published on Friday ( 29/11 ) , calls on Trinity to " immediately divest and sever all ties with companies complicit in the war in Gaza , " along with establishing an " oversight committee " to implement an ethical investment policy , and hold an open meeting to address student concerns around divestment . <p> The letter follows the news last month that Trinity had not divested from any arms companies , despite previous reports that the College had divested . <p> Students were allegedly told that " Trinity will be and is in the process of divesting " in Easter term . However , in a recent meeting with the TCSU and the BA Society , Sally Davies , the College 's Master , stated that Trinity had " no interest in divesting from arms companies " . <p> Trinity currently holds investments in multiple arms companies , according to Freedom of Information requests . This includes Elbit Systems , which produces 85% of the drones and land-based equipment used by the Israeli army . <p> Trinity was issued a legal notice over potential " complicity " in " war crimes " over their investments in Elbit Systems in Lent term , due to their ties to " plausible genocide " in Gaza . <p> During Davies ' meeting with the College student unions , students also asked whether the College would introduce a humanitarian response fund for the war in Gaza , similar to its response to Ukraine . In response to this , Davies indicated that she " regretted " the support the College gave to Ukraine due to the precedent that it set for responses to humanitarian crises . <p> This news led to fresh student outrage , with activists protesting outside the College last month , calling on them to divest . During a recent protest outside Greenwich House , one speaker labelled Davies ' comments as " unconscionable evil " . <p> A spokesperson from the ICJP told Middle East Eye : " Our submission to the call for input highlights cases from ICJP 's work , including Trinity College and JNF UK , as complicit third sector organisations " . <p> " By shining a spotlight on third sector complicity , the UN Special Rapporteur has an opportunity to help fill the accountability gap that currently exists in the UK , " they continued . <p> Trinity College was contacted for comment . <p> Support Varsity <p> Varsity is the independent newspaper for the University of Cambridge , established in its current form in 1947 . In order to maintain our editorial independence , our print newspaper and news website receives no funding from the University of Cambridge or its constituent Colleges . <p> We are therefore almost entirely reliant on advertising for funding and we expect to have a tough few months and years ahead . <p> In spite of this situation , we are going to look at inventive ways to look at serving our readership with digital content and of course in print too ! <p> Therefore we are asking our readers , if they wish , to make a donation from as little as ? 1 , to help with our running costs . Many thanks , we hope you can help !
