<p> There is no region where Donald Trump was and is more popular than the Arab world . He speaks a language of power they understand : using military strength and maintaining loyalty to friends . He is not a spineless politician . <p> To many in the Middle East , Trump appears more Arab than American : he rules from the centre , promotes loyal family members to political positions , speaks from his heart , owns prime real estate , holds grievances , and is able to feel the pulse of a situation instinctively . These skills will get him far , but Harold Macmillan 's warning about " Events , dear boy , events " will make or break Trump 's legacy if he does not make the right choices in the months ahead . <p> A destabilising , anti-American , anti-Israeli poison is polluting the air of the Middle East and wider Muslim world . The political oxygen of the region is full of toxic substances spread by two entities : the ( Shia ) revolutionary government of Iran and the ( Sunni ) Muslim Brotherhood , born in Egypt . Hezbollah , Hamas , al-Qaeda , Isis and Hayat Tahrir al-Sham in Syria are all variants of a venom that violates peace and prosperity . <p> From the almost weekly hate marches in London to the anti-Jewish riots on American campuses since the October 7 attacks on Israel , the toxin of political Islamism is protected by the fact that it has now spread far beyond the Middle East . But Trump immediately banning the Muslim Brotherhood and its affiliates in America would force Europe to reconsider the financial , media , and mosque networks used by Iran and the Brotherhood in their own countries to project power back into the Middle East . So a Muslim Brotherhood ban , not a Muslim ban , is needed urgently . <p> A policy shift from Washington under Trump to confront Tehran would also strengthen the West 's allies in the Middle East . Renewed sanctions on the Iranian regime , bold preparedness to destroy its nuclear weapons programme , and the removal or minimisation of its octopus-like imperial tentacles in Yemen , Syria , Lebanon , Gaza , and Iraq would open the pathway to eliminating ideological pollutants and reshaping the region towards greater pluralism and tolerance . <p> Trump possesses the strength of conviction and military power , consolidated by his loyalty to his Arab and Israeli friends , to then build on the signature achievement of his previous presidential term : the Abraham Accords . But Iran and the Muslim Brotherhood have made his job of achieving greater peace and normalisation with Israel more difficult . Israel 's war in Gaza has radicalised millions of young people in Saudi Arabia and the wider region , making the need to see some form of a Palestinian state , guaranteeing Israel 's security and achieving dignity for Palestinians , more urgent . <p> Israeli polling does not show willingness for the creation of a Palestinian state . Palestinian schools and mosques teach a culture of Jew-hatred and killings . This is the deadlock that must be undone . With American security guarantees , Trump could mobilise Arab and Muslim nations to assist in this difficult process . <p> Trump will not persuade more countries to sign up to the Abraham Accords , but other nations could normalise their diplomatic and trade relations with Israel in other ways . Senegal and Morocco already have a peaceful relationship with Israel . Mauritania could be the next candidate for closer ties . It has an outsized influence on global Islamic scholarship , and Trump would find willing partners in the country seeking to normalise relations with Israel . <p> Similarly , in Indonesia , the largest Muslim nation in the world , there are major political parties and leaders willing to reach a rapprochement with the Israelis . Then there is Imran Khan in Pakistan , currently in prison on trumped up charges , but a friend of sorts to Trump and his wife . Could the president-elect call for his release and demand that Pakistan , in return for financial assistance and other help , re-imagine its relationships with Israel ? It would outsmart India , too . <p> Trump 's peacemaker impulse , however , must be encouraged and supported while knowing that within the ranks of his inner circle are influential men and women with dangerously misplaced views . Events could empower the wrong people at the court of King Trump . <p> Indeed , ahead of his January 20 inauguration , the balance of power in the Middle East is already shifting . Israel has weakened Iran , Hamas , and Hezbollah , but the situation in Syria is again becoming dangerous . Assad is a mass murderer , but the Islamist rebels marching towards Damascus will not be any better in government and will provide a new base for Hamas , al-Qaeda , and other enemies of the West . Trump may have to find solace in Trotsky 's warning that " you may not be interested in war , but war is interested in you " . <p> But the broader conditions in the Middle East are conducive to a new approach by the president-elect . The West has partnerships now in the Middle East that are not dominated by the struggles of T E Lawrence , or by Churchill 's handling of Arab nationalists . The political and economic gravity is no longer in Cairo or Baghdad , but in Riyadh , Abu Dhabi , and Doha . These are pro-American cities and countries with which the West can advance common interests in security , trade and innovation . <p> In Abu Dhabi and Riyadh , I hear talk of joint Arab-Israeli space exploration and artificial intelligence-empowered medical advances . In Cairo , I hear talk of Gaza tunnels and terrorism . Trump 's choices are clear . <p> Ed Husain is a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and a professor at Georgetown University 's School of Foreign Service
