<h> Sign up to The JC newsletter <h> Are Israel and Hamas about to reach a deal ? <p> The imminent arrival of President Trump has changed the dynamics <p> Khan Yunis in the southern Gaza Strip ( Getty Images ) <p> December 05 , 2024 09:55 <p> This week has been full of difficult news from Gaza . Omer Neutra , one of the hostages , was found to have been killed on October 7 and his body taken to Gaza , while the IDF also retrieved the body Itai Svirsky , another hostage . <p> At the same time incoming US President Donald Trump has demanded the hostages be released : " If the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity . " <p> Trump 's vow to make Hamas pay if the hostages are not returned has put new wind in the sails of a possible deal in Gaza . This has also come in the wake of a ceasefire in Lebanon . Israel launched operation Northern Arrows on September 23 , intensifying airstrikes and a ground operation against the Iranian-backed terrorist group . The two month campaign appeared successful . Hezbollah lost thousands of fighters . Israel carried out a large number of airstrikes on Hezbollah munitions and rocket launchers . Israel was able to show that the Hezbollah bogeyman that could supposedly rain down destruction on Israel was partly a paper tiger . <p> The war in Lebanon has distracted from the war in Gaza . Hamas has counted on Israel getting fatigued by more than a year of fighting . While the early months of the campaign against Hamas after October 7 were intense and many Hamas members were eliminated , things slowed down in the spring of 2024 . Since then Israel has not sought to completely defeat Hamas and remove it from Gaza . Instead the IDF has continued campaigns in certain neighbourhoods of Gaza . <p> In November 2023 , when the first hostage deal took place , Israeli authorities said military pressure would bring more deals . However , there have been none . Instead , Hamas appeared to believe that international pressure would result in Israel being forced to stop the war . Hamas assumed that it could keep the hostages and play for time . <p> However , things have now changed . Israel has not been forced to stop the war . Israel is operating in northern Gaza , where it has eliminated more than 1,000 terrorists in Jabaliya , and it continues to expand its control of the Netzarim corridor south of Gaza city and also continues to hold on to the Egyptian border . The IDF has three divisions in Gaza , one in the north , one in Netzarim and one in the south . Israel has shown that it is willing to be resilient in terms of keeping up the fight . <p> Hamas may now think it can cut a deal prior to the Trump administration coming into office . This would enable it to try to stay in power in Gaza and get a respite from more than a year of fighting . Hamas might assume it can squeeze some kind of claim of victory out of the awful war it caused through the October 7 massacre . Hamas likely knows that if it waits until Trump takes over , that Israel will feel complete support to do whatever it wants in Gaza . Hamas has also lost the Hezbollah card to play . Hezbollah is weakened and no longer able to keep a second front open in northern Israel . Meanwhile Iran is distracted in Syria as the Syrian regime faces setbacks . <p> Hamas had gambled on the idea that it would be able to keep up the pressure on Israel via multiple Iranian-backed fronts . The Houthis in Yemen target ships , militias in Iraq use drones to attack Israel . Hamas thought this would keep Israel distracted . It also wanted to build on October 7 to try to get support in the West Bank . Hamas assumed that if it could get a hostage deal and get Israel to leave Gaza it would appear to be a winner . It assumed it could then leverage this to get power in the West Bank and take over from the Palestinian Authority . Now , Hamas likely feels more isolated . It sees that it has n't been able to get Israel to leave Gaza . <p> In any kind of deal there is always a question about which side wants it more . Israel has shown that it is willing to wait and also wage other wars to deter enemies . Hamas gambled on international pressure on Israel and also on Israel growing fatigued from the war . Hamas knew it would suffer losses but assumed it could withstand the losses . <p> Today Hamas continues to control central Gaza and it has shown an ability to recruit new members and to exploit humanitarian aid to stay in power . This is how Hamas has survived in the past , via working with international organisations and exploiting them to stay in power . Israel has sought to pressure these international organisations , such as UNRWA . The pressure may be working : UNRWA is often critical of Israel but its increasingly shrill statements betray its own sense that it is losing its grip on Gaza . <p> Reversing decades of Hamas rule and the way it controls Gaza will be difficult . However , after more than a year of war Hamas may be ready for a deal that gives it some respite . Israelis would also like a respite from one of the longest most traumatising wars in its history . Israel will want to deter enemies in the region and prevent any spillover from Gaza to the West Bank . Much is at stake . The pressure by Trump on Hamas and his willingness to push for a deal could have the necessary effect to get the ball rolling . <p> Seth J. Frantzman is the senior Middle East analyst for the Jerusalem Post , an adjunct Fellow at The Foundation for Defense of Democracies and author of The October 7 War : Israel 's Battle for Security in Gaza ( 2024 )
