<h> Assad regime on brink as Syrian rebels begin to encircle Damascus and claim second city <p> Jabed Ahmed and Tom Watling <p> 7 December 2024 at 3:35 pm*4-min read <p> Syrian leader Bashar al-Assad 's 24-year rule appears on the brink of collapse as Syrian rebels claim to be seizing full control of the vital city of Homs and advancing towards the capital Damascus . <p> The insurgents , led by the jihadi group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , said opposition forces have started the " final stage " of their offensive by encircling Damascus . <p> It is the first time opposition forces have reached the outskirts of the Syrian capital since 2018 , when government troops recaptured the region adjacent to the capital following a years-long siege . <p> Underscoring the possibility of an uprising in the capital , protesters in a Damascus suburb tore down a statue of Mr Assad 's father and smashed it to pieces . In other suburbs soldiers changed into civilian clothes and deserted their posts , residents said . <p> Rebel fighters parade in the streets of Hama after capturing the city in central Syria ( AFP via Getty Images ) <p> The insurgents have also entered the suburbs of Homs , according to residents and military sources . The rebels reportedly breached government defences from the north and east of the city . In the early hours of Sunday , Syrian rebel commander Hassan Abdul Ghany said that insurgent forces " fully liberated " Syria 's central city of Homs . <p> A rebel commander said they had also taken control of an army camp and villages outside the city . <p> The Syrian military , which has been reinforcing Homs and hammering the rebels with intense airstrikes , did not immediately comment on the reports . <p> Homs , parts of which were controlled by insurgents until 2014 , is a major intersection point between Damascus and Syria 's coastal provinces of Latakia and Tartus , where President Assad enjoys wide support and where his Russian allies have a naval base and airbase . Homs province is Syria 's largest in size and borders Lebanon , Iraq and Jordan . <p> Earlier today , the rebels said they seized control of the southern city of Daraa -- the birthplace of the 2011 uprising against Mr Assad -- as they pressed on with their lightning advance . <p> Anti-government fighters celebrate in Hama ( AFP via Getty ) <p> The Syrian army withdrew from much of southern Syria on Saturday , leaving more areas of the country , including two provincial capitals , under the control of opposition fighters . <p> Since the rebels swept into Aleppo a week ago , government defences have crumbled across the country as insurgents seized a string of major cities and rose up in places where the rebellion had long seemed over . <p> The rebels have already seized Aleppo in the north , Hama in the centre , Deir ez-Zor in the east and Suweida and Deraa in the south . <p> Syria 's military said it was carrying out airstrikes around Hama and Homs and reinforcing on that front . It also said it was repositioning around Deraa and Suweida , without acknowledging their capture by rebels . <p> After years locked behind frozen front lines , the insurgents have burst out of their northwestern stronghold in Idlib and pushed the swiftest battlefield advance by either side since a street uprising against President Assad mushroomed into civil war 13 years ago . <p> The Syrian president regained control of most of Syria after his major allies -- Russia , Iran and Lebanon 's Hezbollah group -- came to his aid . However , his allies ' attention has been diverted by other crises , including Vladimir Putin 's invasion of Ukraine and Hezbollah 's conflict with Israel over the war in Gaza . Russia 's embassy in Syria has urged Russian nationals to leave the country . <p> The rapid pace of these events has prompted fears across the Middle East of a fresh wave of regional instability . Western officials say the Syrian military is in a difficult situation , unable to halt the rebel gains and forced into retreat . <p> Hezbollah sent some " supervising forces " to Homs on Friday but any significant deployment would risk exposure to Israeli airstrikes , Western officials said . Israel attacked two Lebanon-Syria border crossings on Friday , Lebanon said . <p> Iran-backed Iraqi militias are on high alert , with thousands of heavily armed fighters ready to deploy to Syria , many of them amassed near the border . Iraq does not seek military intervention in Syria , a government spokesperson said on Friday . <p> The leader of HTS , Abu Mohammad Al-Julani , said the group aims to " build Syria " and bring Syrian refugees back home from Lebanon and Europe . Another opposition commander , Hassan Abdul Ghany , urged Syria 's military officers to defect in a video statement aired on Friday . <p> The foreign ministers of Iran , Iraq and Syria -- three close allies -- gathered in Baghdad on Friday to consult on the rapidly changing situation . Iraqi foreign minister Fuad Hussein expressed " deep concern " , saying his government is closely following the situation in Syria . <p> Police have reportedly resorted to more heavy handed tactics in a bid to clamp down on the unrest with more than 400 protesters , including opposition leaders and activists , detained and more than 100 people treated for injuries.View on euronews <p> ( Bloomberg ) -- Syrian rebels have entered Homs , a war monitor said , in a swift advance on the last city before the capital Damascus and a major threat to President Bashar al-Assad 's rule.Most Read from BloombergA Chicago Skyscraper Cements the Legacy of a Visionary Postmodern ArchitectNYC 's Run-Down Bus Terminal Gets Approval for $10 Billion RevampKansas City Looks Back on its Long , Costly Ride With MicrotransitIf the city falls it would effectively cut the shortest land route between the Syrian <p> British Prime Minister Keir Starmer will begin a multi-day visit to the Gulf on Sunday , his first trip to the region since taking office , seeking stronger economic and defence ties with the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia . He will aim to boost investment and deepen defence and security partnerships , the government said in a statement on Saturday , describing the two Middle Eastern countries as " some of the UK 's most vital modern-day partners . " Starmer , elected to lead the world 's sixth-largest economy in July , will arrive in the UAE on Sunday , where he is due to hold talks with President Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan on Monday . <p> Britain 's leader Keir Starmer makes his first trip to the Gulf as prime minister from Sunday , seeking to attract investment from the region 's oil-rich states , Downing Street announced.Starmer 's trip comes after Britain last week rolled out the diplomatic red carpet for Qatar 's emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al-Thani who enjoyed a state visit to the UK . Starmer discussed trade with the royal during talks in Downing Street that coincided with Qatar announcing it will invest ? 1 billion ( $1.3 billion ) <p> At a church in Syria 's Aleppo , Christian worshippers attended mass days after their city came under the control of Islamist-led rebel forces who have sought to allay residents ' concerns over their nascent rule.Rebels led by the Islamist group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) captured Aleppo last week in a lightning offensive against President Bashar al-Assad 's forces , raising fears in Syria 's second-largest city . <p> The mother of a hostage who appears in the latest " proof of life " video released by Hamas has doubled down on her criticism of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , making an emotional appeal for him to do a deal for the captives ' return . <p> President-elect Donald Trump gave his strongest endorsement yet of his defense secretary nominee Pete Hegseth in which he addressed allegations of Hegseth 's drinking habits in an interview with NBC 's Kristen Welker . The clip was posted as a sneak preview of Trump 's first one-on-one interview since winning the November election , with the full interview set to air on Sunday . Trump told Welker that he remains unfazed by reports that Pete Hegseth , a military veteran and former Fox News host , had suf <p> Alice Weidel , co-leader of the far-right Alternative for Germany ( AfD ) , on Saturday said it was a " great day " for her party as she was nominated as its candidate to be chancellor ahead of snap elections in February . " Today is a great day for the party and a great day for Germany . "
