<h> For The New York Times , antisemitism has a name but genocide does not <p> Genocidal Zionists supported by the ' paper of record ' have long attempted to silence the world through false charges of ' antisemitism ' . It no longer works <p> A pro-Palestinian demonstrator holds a mock edition of The New York Times at a rally marking the anniversary of the Nakba , on 18 May 2024 in New York City ( Michael Nigro/Sipa USA ) <p> I read The New York Times daily as a barometer - as a farmer would heed a bellwether , or an old-fashioned European anthropologist would stare at the behaviour of a faraway tribe - to see which way the liberal Zionist wind is blowing . <p> I strongly recommend that people with a smidgeon of sanity left in them in this exceedingly diabolical political culture do the same : never read the Times or its ilk for news and analysis , but as the archival evidence of the liberal savagery that has long sold itself as " the world order " . <p> Consider the big song and dance that Times editors , reporters and columnists made about " antisemitism " in Amsterdam in the aftermath of a gang of Israeli hooligans singing and dancing to genocidal chants , and challenging decent human beings either to confront them or else run for cover . <p> Before and after a Uefa Europa League football match in Amsterdam on 7 November between Israeli club Maccabi Tel Aviv and Dutch club AFC Ajax , militant Israeli thugs exported their habitual savageries and unleashed them on a European capital for the whole world to see . <p> What is an Israeli football team doing in a European football game ? <h> New MEE newsletter : Jerusalem Dispatch <h> Sign up to get the latest insights and analysis on Israel-Palestine , alongside Turkey Unpacked and other MEE newsletters <p> Well , of course , where else should a European settled colony play football , except in the continent that created the garrison state ? <p> True to their habitual behaviours inside the settler colony , these platoons of Israeli louts had torn down a Palestinian flag from the facade of a building and burned it , attacked and vandalised taxis with Arab drivers , while all the while chanting , " Let the IDF Israeli army win , we will fuck the Arabs " , " Fuck you Palestine " , and " Why is there no school in Gaza ? There are no children left there . " <p> Just take the words " Arab " and " Palestinian " out of these slogans for a second , and replace them with " Jews " and " Israelis " - and see what happens . <h> Enter The New York Times <p> As soon as news of the Israeli thuggery in Amsterdam broke , the Times went into high gear to distort , deviate , manoeuvre , meander and rush to place the word " antisemitism " in headlines . <p> " What to Know About the Attacks on Israeli Soccer Fans in Amsterdam , " read one headline of an 8 November article , explaining that " Dutch and Israeli officials described the clashes after a soccer match as antisemitic " . <p> By the following day , The New York Times had joined officials in Israel and Amsterdam to declare the Amsterdam incident as ' antisemitic ' <p> Bret Stephens , one of the two chief pro-Israel columnists gainfully employed at the Times , was immediately called into action that same day to decry : " The Age of the Pogrom Returns " . <p> Stephens begins by invoking the memory of his grandparents , who experienced antisemitic violence . ( Apparently , only Zionists have grandparents . Palestinians never have any grandparents slaughtered by Zionists . They were born and are killed as terrorists . ) <p> He goes on to quote a Dutch official , who wrote on X : " Barbarians on scooters are riding through our capital city hunting Israelis and Jews . " It seems that what the Israeli hooligans were doing in the streets of Amsterdam was not considered barbarism , but those who resisted them were barbarians . <p> Initially , the narrative of " antisemitism " and " pogroms " in Europe had only been promoted by Israeli and Dutch officials and the Times 's ardent Zionist columnist . <p> But by the following day , the Times had joined officials in Israel and Amsterdam to declare the incident as antisemitic : " Amsterdam Bars Protests After Antisemitic Attacks on Soccer Fans . " <p> Why Dutch support for Israel 's football hooligans has roots in colonial racism <p> By 10 November , even the Israeli dissident columnist Gideon Levy had joined Stephens to condemn the " pogrom " in Haaretz . However , he pointed out another glaring fact that Stephens and his ilk habitually leave out : " An ugly , criminal pogrom against Israeli soccer fans took place in Amsterdam on Thursday . Similar pogroms , carried out by settlers , take place almost daily in the West Bank . " <p> By 10 November , the Times was consolidating " antisemitism " as the official brand name of what had happened in Amsterdam : " Chaos , Provocations and Violence : How Attacks on Israeli Soccer Fans Unfolded " . It again described the events as " antisemitic assaults on visiting Israeli soccer fans , and incendiary chants and attacks by some Israelis " . <p> Not only did the Times publish dozens of articles about the alleged " antisemitic attack " in Amsterdam , but a damning Electronic Intifada report also showed an internal email exchange with a Times senior manager who killed a Dutch reporter 's investigation into the Israeli hooligans . <h> ' Antisemitism ' in , genocide out <p> The Times is very generously serving a plateful of false " antisemitism " charges , but it is not so accommodating when it comes to calling Israel 's war on Palestinians what it is : a genocide , as was most recently confirmed in an Amnesty International report . <p> Earlier this year , investigative and responsible journalists miles away from midtown Manhattan exposed how the selfsame Times had " instructed journalists covering Israel 's war on the Gaza Strip to restrict the use of the terms ' genocide ' and ' ethnic cleansing ' and to ' avoid ' using the phrase ' occupied territory ' when describing Palestinian land , according to a copy of an internal memo obtained by The Intercept . " <p> According to the report : " The memo also instructs reporters not to use the word Palestine ' except in very rare cases ' and to steer clear of the term ' refugee camps ' to describe areas of Gaza historically settled by displaced Palestinians expelled from other parts of Palestine during previous Israeli-Arab wars . " <p> The New York Times , leading the entire media stratosphere in the US and Europe , does not simply print false antisemitism charges ; it manufactures misleading political terminology , as its editorial board members keep their heads buried deep in the sand . <p> They edit their paper , hiding behind the facade of American military might , and not standing in front of unmistakable truths . <p> The anti-Arab , anti-Muslim , anti-Palestinian hatred displayed by Israeli hooligans is discounted , while legitimate anger against such thuggery is branded as " antisemitic " . Arabs , Muslims and Palestinians subjected to this thuggery should have all just " turned the other cheek " in order to not be branded antisemitic . <p> Fun fact here for Times readers : the paper does report that the Israeli thugs were chanting , " Why is there no school in Gaza ? There are no children left there . " But apparently these were mere " provocations " and not genocidal slogans , at a time when the Israeli army , with the full participation of the US , continues to perpetrate genocide . <h> Jews and Muslims of the world , unite <p> There has been a sustained history of anti-Jewish hatred in Europe and the US , which continues to this day . The Palestinian national liberation movement has never been part of that disease . <p> Palestinians would have fought against the occupiers of their homeland if they were Chinese , Japanese , Indian , Iranian , Turkish , or extraterrestrials from Krypton and Arrakis . <p> Palestinians fight the occupiers of their homeland not because they are Jews ; they fight them because they have stolen their homeland . And they will fight them to their dying day , to their last breath , to their last remaining fighter . <p> A protester is seen during a pro-Palestinian rally near the White House in Washington DC , on 5 October 2024 ( Aashish Kiphayet/NurPhoto ) <p> Falsely charging the whole world with antisemitism unless they witness Israel 's genocide at work and look the other way , and shut up , is now routine among Zionists . <p> As such , the false , abusive and pernicious accusations of antisemitism by outmanoeuvred Zionists must be carefully and responsibly separated from actual occasions of antisemitism , such as when neo-Nazis sport the swastika in the West , and American and European fascists like Donald Trump and Viktor Orban - both great allies of Israel - entertain them . <p> Jews and Muslims are now at the forefront of fighting Zionism , racism , antisemitism , Islamophobia , xenophobia , and other similar hateful projects <p> Years ago , I wrote , and I still believe , that antisemitism and Islamophobia are the two nasty sides of the same coin - which means Jews and Muslims are the most natural allies fighting them both in solidarity with each other . <p> Today , genocidal Zionists seek to justify the ethnic cleansing of Palestine and to silence the world through revolting charges of antisemitism . It no longer works . <p> Jews and Muslims , as a result , are now at the forefront of fighting Zionism , racism , antisemitism , Islamophobia , xenophobia , and any other similar hateful project threatening the safety and sanity of our world . <p> In this darkest hour of Palestinian history , as genocidal Zionists are slaughtering them in their tens of thousands , it is absolutely imperative - for the sake of a fair , just and pluralistic Palestine - to keep our Jewish sisters and brothers more than ever in our immediate love and trust , for the Zionists have stolen Palestine with the same criminal ferocity as they have sought to steal and occupy Judaism . <p> The views expressed in this article belong to the author and do not necessarily reflect the editorial policy of Middle East Eye . <p> Hamid Dabashi is Hagop Kevorkian Professor of Iranian Studies and Comparative Literature at Columbia University in the City of New York , where he teaches Comparative Literature , World Cinema , and Postcolonial Theory . His latest books include The Future of Two Illusions : Islam after the West ( 2022 ) ; The Last Muslim Intellectual : The Life and Legacy of Jalal Al-e Ahmad ( 2021 ) ; Reversing the Colonial Gaze : Persian Travelers Abroad ( 2020 ) , and The Emperor is Naked : On the Inevitable Demise of the Nation-State ( 2020 ) . His books and essays have been translated into many languages . <p> Middle East Eye delivers independent and unrivalled coverage and analysis of the Middle East , North Africa and beyond . To learn more about republishing this content and the associated fees , please fill out this form . More about MEE can be found here .
