<h> The Gregg Wallace scandal is odious . But should it be in the news ? <p> Some think the Gregg Wallace scandal has been overly represented in the news . But is this true ? Eliot Wilson reflects on the role of the media . <p> If you are not interested in the conduct of Gregg Wallace , the former greengrocer whose laddish , shiny-headed persona has been part of the BBC 's Master Chef for 20 years , then the news headlines last week were not the place for you . <p> Wallace has been portrayed as boorish , predatory and displaying unrepentant and sexually unacceptable behaviour towards a dismaying number of women . He is at the centre of a many-threaded debate about relations between the sexes and conduct in professional and private contexts , captured admirably and rationally by this paper 's opinion editor Alys Denby . <p> One strand of the argument , especially on social media , has been a contemptuous dismissal of the coverage of Wallace , which has come in two parts . The first is a high-minded belief that Wallace represents a societal obsession with quotidian celebrities ( fair ) , and that his behaviour is not really important ( incorrect ) . <p> Flowing from that is the argument that we are expending energy reporting on and reading about a television presenter concealing his penis with a sock when we should be concentrating on Ukraine , Gaza , pensioners ' winter fuel costs , farmers ' inheritance tax or your chosen hobbyhorse . <p> There will be disagreements over the prioritisation : recollections may vary , to use the late Queen Elizabeth II 's masterfully lapidary yet charged phrase . But it prompts a broader , valid question about our media ecosystem : who decides what is " news " ? <h> What deserves to be in the news ? <p> It is a given that some form of judgement will always and everywhere be required . Even rolling news has only the day 's 24 hours to accommodate events and analysis , and some stories will achieve greater prominence than others . That can partly be mitigated by the vast spectrum of sources now available to us , transferring a degree of editorial control from broadcasters to consumers -- which may be good or bad . <p> Each news source will still have to make its individual judgements , however . The BBC , ITN , Sky News , News UK , GB News , DMGT , Press Holdings , Reach : they are all playing a zero-sum game . Commercial enterprises have to serve their customer base or they will not endure , but most of us accept there is also an element of public responsibility . That is why we have Ofcom , IPSO and Impress to regulate the media at all . <p> News reporting should not be reduced to by-the-numbers clickbait . There remains an important distinction between " the public interest " and stories which interest the public . I am a firm believer in free-market competition and plurality and de minimis regulation focusing on the prevention of abuse , wilful deception and harm , but none of that means the " curation " of news is irrelevant . <h> The consumer vs the media <p> Ideally we would rely on responsible and sober editorial judgement , but we know that is not always the case . Equally , we are in a period of kicking against the pricks , rejecting hierarchy and expertise in favour of a false democracy of knowledge . Only a third of us trust most news most of the time . The BBC and Channel 4 carry the additional burden of being public service broadcasters , and we have lost consensus on what that means ; the problem was pinpointed by Baroness Fox of Buckley in a debate in 2021 in anticipation of the launch of GB News . <p> The last thing we need is a state-mandated order of precedence for news . Choice has a critical role to play , accepting that consumers have agency and will determine what they want to know , with commercial consequences for media platforms . Somehow , however , we also need to insert an element of editorial selection which is careful and considered , as well as being seen as fair and frank . <p> Transparency may be the key element . There is nothing wrong with media outlets having a particular standpoint -- call it bias if you like -- if it is overt and does not suppress alternative points of view . The Daily Mirror and the Telegraph will rarely agree and that is fine . Bias is much less dangerous than pretended impartiality . <p> It need not always be hyper-seriousness . The BBC 's " Reithian principles " are often invoked , but we should remember that Lord Reith , a serious yet restless and devout Presbyterian , preached a duty to inform , educate and entertain . We will all sometimes think a story has too much or too little prominence . What we need to create , somehow , is a public confidence that an editorial judgement has been made fairly , honestly and transparently . If that can prevail , there is always the option of changing channels .
