<h> Western military pressure has been unable to stop Houthis attacks along the Red Sea , IISS report <p> However despite the effort , since November 2023 the number of transits of merchant ships through the Red Sea has decreased by roughly 50% . <p> The Houthis are growing in strength and trade through the Red Sea is declining despite ongoing international military pressure on the rebel group , a study has warned . The report from the International Institute for Strategic Studies ( IISS ) said missions such as Operation Prosperity Guardian , Operation Poseidon Archer and EUNAVFOR Aspides had made little impact . <p> The paper , called Navigating Troubled Waters : The Houthis ' Campaign in the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden , said military strikes had only temporarily disrupted the group 's capabilities . <p> The UK , as well as other Western powers , have made extensive efforts to contain Houthi attacks . Two US Navy destroyers recently shot down Houthi missiles and drones that were targeting three US commercial ships in the Gulf of Aden . <p> Earlier this year , RAF Typhoons carried out airstrikes against Houthi targets in Yemen , and HMS Diamond downed nine drones and a missile during her six-month mission in the region . <p> Elsewhere in the southern Red Sea a French destroyer downed drones under the Greek-led Operation Aspides . But despite the effort , since November 2023 the number of transits of merchant ships through the Red Sea has decreased by roughly 50% . <p> The Houthis , formally known as Ansar Allah , are a Shia-led rebel movement that emerged in the Sa'dah province of Yemen in the 1990s . Initially focused on addressing local grievances against the Yemeni government , the group evolved into a significant military and political force , gaining control of Yemen 's capital , Sana'a , in 2014 . <p> Since then , the Houthis have become a central player in Yemen 's ongoing civil war , which has drawn in regional powers such as Saudi Arabia and Iran . Backed by Iran , the Houthis have developed an extensive arsenal , including ballistic and cruise missiles , un-crewed aerial vehicles ( UAVs ) and naval mines . <p> Since Israel 's war in Gaza following the 7 October attacks , the Houthis have expanded their operations to the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden , targeting merchant vessels and launching missile and drone attacks . <p> Operation Prosperity Guardian is an international naval mission aimed at safeguarding Red Sea trade routes from Houthi attacks . Led primarily by Western powers , including the UK and the US , the operation involves patrolling key maritime chokepoints , escorting merchant vessels and responding to hostile actions . <p> While the operation has successfully prevented the loss of civilian lives at sea , it has not deterred Houthi aggression or restored pre-2023 levels of maritime traffic . <p> The question remains , why have n't the Houthis been weakened ? The IISS report highlights several factors explaining the Houthis ' resilience despite sustained international military pressure : Terrain and concealment , Iranian support , Evolving tactics , refining targeting criteria and weapons system ; The use of low-cost , high-impact weapons , such as UAVs and uncrewed surface vessels , places disproportionate strain on the expensive defensive systems of their adversaries , and finally , international operations , including Operation Prosperity Guardian and EUNAVFOR Aspides , are primarily naval and lack ground components , limiting their ability to neutralize Houthi positions or disrupt supply chains .
