<p> Among the keys to Donald Trump 's political success is the moral illiteracy of his most outspoken opponents . Obviously , Trump has no shortage of flaws himself -- ones that extend well past mean tweets . In spite of those deficiencies , however , he is viewed by even his most reluctant supporters as a bulwark against ideas -- and ideologies -- far more threatening than he ever could be . <p> Think about the radicals adamant that children should have access to " treatments " meant to indulge the lie that girls can become boys and boys can become girls . Think about the open borders enthusiasts who hold to the bizarre view that any enforcement of any immigration law is immoral . Think about the technocrats sure that they can tax and regulate an earthly society into a utopia . And think of the throngs marching in the streets in support of a " globalised intifada " , in solidarity with the barbarians who carried out the October 7 genocidal attack on Israel . <p> And then there is MSNBC 's Joy Reid . On Tuesday , the TV host criticised Trump for " spending his time sitting in his golden palace , Mar-a-Lago , muscling other countries like he 's Tony Soprano with a social media site " . But one of the examples she gave was highly revealing . She cited his demand that Hamas -- memo to the MSNBC faithful , that 's not a country -- " release all hostages being held in Gaza before his inauguration , or there will be , quote , ' all hell to pay in the Middle East ' " . <p> That damned Don Soprano , making demands on Hamas ! Who does he think he is ? <p> MSNBC host Joy Reid is enraged President Trump has given Hamas a deadline to return the American hostages they kidnapped on 10/7 . <p> The host is so out of touch with reality , and any coherent moral compass , that she apparently thinks it is legitimate to attack Trump for threatening savages who kidnap , rape , and murder Jews as punishment for being Jewish , and Americans for the crime of being American . <p> Part of her confusion doubtlessly stems from a reflexive opposition to all things Trump . If the president-elect does it , says , or believes it , it must be wrong . Such a logical fallacy has condemned many before Reid to similar self-immolations . <p> But there is also an unmistakable ideological component to Reid 's lamentation of the plight of the terrorists . Her worldview -- one shared by professors , columnists , Hollywood bigwigs , and Left-wing activists across the country -- is that of the witches of MacBeth : Fair is foul , and foul is fair . <p> Yes , they oppose Trump because of who he is and what he 's done . But they also oppose all of the best parts of what he represents . <p> The US is not perfect . But while so many take this truth as evidence that America is part of an imperialistic power structure on the wrong side of history , Trump correctly identifies the country as not just the unambiguous " good guys , " but the lynchpin preventing the real imperialists -- the Russians , Chinese , and Islamists -- from sowing death and destruction across the globe . <p> For this reason , America 's interests are , by and large , the interests of all those who seek peace , prosperity , and freedom for all . So when Trump promotes those interests or flexes American muscle -- especially in a case as clear-cut as this one -- that 's something to celebrate , not deplore . <p> Most understand that much to be axiomatic . That 's why if Democrats continue to listen to the Joy Reids of the world , they will be playing against Trump with one arm tied behind their back .
