<h> Starmer to meet Saudi crown prince in push for infrastructure cash <p> Keir Starmer sets out his ' plan for change ' last week . His trip to the Gulf states is in pursuit of overseas investment in green energy.Photograph : Darren Staples/PA <p> Keir Starmer will meet Saudi Arabia 's de facto leader , Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman , as part of a controversial trip to the region this week designed to drum up investment for his pledge to overhaul British infrastructure . <p> In his latest overseas trip , the prime minister will head to the Gulf this weekend . He will first travel to the United Arab Emirates for a meeting with its president , Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan , before travelling on to Saudi Arabia . Starmer will use the trip to push for a free trade deal with a group of six Gulf nations -- Bahrain , Kuwait , Oman , Qatar , Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates . <p> However , officials said that the UAE and Saudi Arabia are already big investors in the UK . Trade with Saudi Arabia is worth ? 17bn , supporting almost 90,000 jobs across the UK . Starmer will also use the trip to push for a ceasefire between Israel and Gaza , the release of hostages and an acceleration of aid . <p> The government is seeking closer ties with the regimes in pursuit of investment needed to deliver the green energy Starmer has promised . Downing Street described them as among the UK 's " most vital modern-day partners " to increase investment and deepen defence and security ties . <p> " Driving long-term growth at home requires us to strengthen ? partnerships abroad , " Starmer said . " That is why I am travelling to the Gulf this week , to build a network of partners for the UK that is focused on driving high-quality growth , boosting opportunities and delivering for the people at home . " <p> The government is engaged in a concerted pursuit of Gulf state investment . Starmer 's trip comes days after the state visit to Britain by Qatar 's emir , Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani . Deals were agreed on a green energy partnership , and defence and security cooperation . <p> British Prime Minister Keir Starmer will begin a multi-day visit to the Gulf on Sunday , his first trip to the region since taking office , seeking stronger economic and defence ties with the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia . He will aim to boost investment and deepen defence and security partnerships , the government said in a statement on Saturday , describing the two Middle Eastern countries as " some of the UK 's most vital modern-day partners . " Starmer , elected to lead the world 's sixth-largest economy in July , will arrive in the UAE on Sunday , where he is due to hold talks with President Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan on Monday . <p> Keir Starmer is set to be the first UK prime minister to hold a bilateral meeting in Cyprus since Ted Heath 53 years ago but he will arrive with questions over the future of the UK 's bases on the island and tensions over the breakaway Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus <p> Britain 's leader Keir Starmer makes his first trip to the Gulf as prime minister from Sunday , seeking to attract investment from the region 's oil-rich states , Downing Street announced.Starmer 's trip comes after Britain last week rolled out the diplomatic red carpet for Qatar 's emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al-Thani who enjoyed a state visit to the UK . Starmer discussed trade with the royal during talks in Downing Street that coincided with Qatar announcing it will invest ? 1 billion ( $1.3 billion ) <p> French officials solved an awkward seating dilemma at the Notre Dame cathedral re-opening on Saturday by placing First Lady Brigitte Macron between US President-elect Donald Trump and Joe Biden 's wife and daughter in the front row at the ceremony.Jill Biden , representing the outgoing president , as well as the couple 's daughter Ashley , were also seated on the front row but with Brigitte separating them from Trump . <p> ( Bloomberg ) -- Syrian rebels have entered Homs , a war monitor said , in a swift advance on the last city before the capital Damascus and a major threat to President Bashar al-Assad 's rule.Most Read from BloombergA Chicago Skyscraper Cements the Legacy of a Visionary Postmodern ArchitectNYC 's Run-Down Bus Terminal Gets Approval for $10 Billion RevampKansas City Looks Back on its Long , Costly Ride With MicrotransitIf the city falls it would effectively cut the shortest land route between the Syrian <p> The word " Merci " was projected on to the front of Paris ' Notre-Dame cathedral as it reopened on Saturday , in thanks for its salvation after a devastating fire that brought the 860-year-old building close to collapse five years ago . <p> Prince William will attend the ceremony marking the reopening of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris on Saturday . " His Royal Highness is travelling at the request of His Majesty 's Government on behalf of the United Kingdom . " <p> Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said on Saturday it was inadmissible to allow what he called a terrorist group to take control of Syrian lands . He was speaking in the Qatari capital Doha after meeting the Turkish and Iranian foreign ministers following a rapid advance by Syrian rebels led by the Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) militant group that threatens President Bashar al-Assad 's rule . " It 's inadmissible to allow the terrorist group to take control of the lands in violation of agreements , " said Lavrov during a political forum in Doha . <p> Kemi Badenoch has hit back at Sir Keir Starmer for joking about her comments on working at McDonald 's - saying he would face calls to resign if he were a Conservative prime minister . Ms Badenoch , who replaced Rishi Sunak as Tory leader last month , has spoken extensively about her time working at the fast food chain .
