<p> An internationally recognised Israeli historian has concluded that his country is committing genocide in Gaza after compiling a vast , methodical report documenting a litany of war crimes committed since Israel 's invasion began last year following the Hamas-led attacks of 7 October . <p> Lee Mordechai , an associate professor at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem , who has also held a fellowship at Princeton University in the US , has published a report titled " Bearing Witness to the Israel-Gaza War " which , in its English translation , is 124 pages long and contains over 1,400 footnotes . <p> Using eyewitness reports , video footage , articles , photographs , eyewitness evidence and over investigatory material , much of it recorded by Israeli soldiers , the historian has produced what Haaretz calls " the most methodical and detailed documentation in Hebrew ( there is also an English translation ) of the war crimes that Israel is perpetrating in Gaza " . <p> Some of the most shocking incidents documented by Mordechai include a Palestinian woman with a child being shot while waving a white flag , starving girls being crushed to death while queuing for bread , a handcuffed 62-year-old Palestinian man getting run over by an Israeli tank and an air strike targeting people trying to help a wounded boy . <p> The database includes thousands of videos , photos , testimonies , reports and investigations documenting the atrocities Israeli forces are committing in Gaza , where over 44,500 Palestinians have been killed during the war . <h> New MEE newsletter : Jerusalem Dispatch <h> Sign up to get the latest insights and analysis on Israel-Palestine , alongside Turkey Unpacked and other MEE newsletters <p> Mordechai also includes a section on " The media , propaganda and the war " , noting that the current war has been " enabled and facilitated by massive media efforts to shape discourse in Israel as well as in the West -- in countries such as the United States , Canada , the United Kingdom and Germany " . <h> Corpses , killings and sunsets <p> Haaretz led its report on Mordechai 's document by drawing attention to footnote 379 , which refers to a video clip showing a large dog eating the corpse of a Palestinian . <p> " Wai , wai , he took the terrorist , the terrorist is gone - gone in both senses , " says the Israeli soldier who filmed the dog eating the dead body . A few seconds later , the soldier pans away from the corpse to the scene around him . " But what a gorgeous view , a gorgeous sunset . A red sun is setting over the Gaza Strip , " he says . <p> ' What all these acts have in common is the deliberate destruction of a group ' <p> - Lee Mordechai , Israeli historian <p> Mordechai 's compendium details the killing of children by Israeli soldiers , the murder of entire families , the starvation and shooting of civilians , tanks running over prisoners and corpses , and much more . <p> Footnote 354 of the document shows footage of Palestinians being shot by Israeli forces while raising a white flag . The video footage , first published by Middle East Eye , shows many people waving white flags while apparently evacuating their homes . A woman with a small child is shot dead by an Israeli sniper , with the child managing to escape . <p> The historian first published the document in January and has been publishing updated versions of it ever since . <p> " I felt that I could not continue to live in my own bubble , that it was a matter of life and death , and what was happening was too big and contradicted the values I grew up with here , " he told Haaretz . <p> In his report , Mordechai confirms the veracity of the fatality figures published by Gaza 's Ministry of Health . According to the historian , claims that these numbers are exaggerated are groundless , and even the Israeli government treats the health ministry 's data as accurate . <p> Of the tens of thousands of people killed in the war , Mordechai includes in the document the death of four premature babies after Israeli forces decided to evacuate the hospital they were in . A nurse looking after five babies was forced to choose the strongest one , which was allowed to survive . <p> Other footage compiled by the historian -- and again often filmed by Israeli forces themselves -- shows a soldier forcing bound and blindfolded prisoners to send regards to his family and to say they want to be his slaves . <p> Israeli soldiers are photographed holding stacks of money they plundered from Palestinian homes in Gaza and an Israeli army bulldozer is seen destroying a large pile of food packages from a humanitarian aid agency . <p> In another clip , an Israeli soldier sings , " Next year we 'll burn the school , " while a Gazan school is engulfed in flames in the background . Numerous video clips documented by Mordechai show Israeli soldiers modelling women 's underwear they have looted . <h> Genocide <p> The links included in " Bearing Witness to the Israel-Gaza War " also lead to graphic footage of bodies strewn about the haunted streets of the Palestinian enclave , of people crushed under the rubble and of puddles of blood everywhere . <p> In some footage we hear the cries of people who have lost their entire families in a single instant . There is also documentary evidence attesting to the killing of disabled people , sexual assault and humiliation , the burning of homes , random shooting , forced starvation , looting and more . <p> War on Gaza : The Palestinian doctors found dead in the ruins of al-Shifa hospital <p> Mordechai argues that Israel 's war reached a brutal peak during the second incursion into al-Shifa Hospital in March , when the Gaza City medical complex became the site of mass killings . <p> The Israeli army argued that Hamas was using the hospital as a base , but did not provide sufficient evidence to back up this claim . <p> Another brutal peak has been Israel 's complete siege and assault on northern Gaza since early October , which has been widely described as ethnic cleansing . <p> In an appendix to his report , Mordechai explains why he thinks Israel 's actions in Gaza constitute genocide . <p> " We need to disconnect the way we think of genocide as Israelis - gas chambers , death camps and World War II - from the model that appears in the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide ( 1948 ) , " he writes . <p> " There do n't have to be death camps for it to be considered genocide . It all boils down to the commission of acts and the intent , and the existence of both has to be established . <p> " In regard to committing acts , it 's killing , but not only -- there is also wounding people , abduction of children and even just attempts to prevent births among a particular group of people . What all these acts have in common is the deliberate destruction of a group . " <p> Middle East Eye delivers independent and unrivalled coverage and analysis of the Middle East , North Africa and beyond . To learn more about republishing this content and the associated fees , please fill out this form . More about MEE can be found here .
