<p> Influence is exerted in many ways , through political acts , creative endeavours , technological breakthroughs and community building . Whatever form it takes , it is defined by what it achieves -- by changing the world we live in . Nowhere is this more clear than in the FT Weekend Magazine 's Women of 2024 issue , a list of 25 of the world 's most influential women , written by the world 's most influential women . <p> This year we celebrate women who are remaking the world we live in today , from Europe 's competition commissioner Margrethe Vestager , whose decade shaping the conversation about fair competition in digital markets came to a conclusion this year with two landmark rulings , to the phenomenon that is Taylor Swift , who upended an industry with the highest grossing tour of all time . <p> This special project was put together , over several months , in consultation with hundreds of FT journalists across dozens of bureaus , our readers and industry leaders . <h> Creators <p> Taylor Swift <h> by Sheryl Sandberg <p> She 's a mastermind who has upended an industry . She 's a tortured poet who bares her soul yet always stays bejewelled . She 's fearless , a Miss Americana who unites people across countries and cultures . Her Eras Tour is the highest grossing of all time , but Taylor 's impact is far greater than the sum of her ticket sales . Her true power is in the global community she has built -- one that shimmers with joy , deep connection and friendships forged by trading bracelets and screaming lyrics in unison . <p> Singing and dancing with my daughters at her concerts are memories I will cherish forever . And watching them look up to her and see a model of vulnerability and resilience , passion and purpose , generosity and ambition makes me grateful that we are all growing up in the era of Taylor Swift . Taylor proves she does n't need to be " The Man " to reach the highest pinnacle of success . She can win by being herself . <p> Sheryl Sandberg is the founder of Lean In , former COO of Meta and a proud Swiftie <h> Chemena Kamali <h> by Sienna Miller <p> Since she became creative director of Chlo ? last year , Chemena Kamali has brought back a style of dressing that celebrates women . It 's a flirtatious , aspirational and fun way to dress that leaves you feeling very powerful , but also effortlessly cool . Returning to the house where she first worked as an intern in her early 20s , Chemena said she wanted to focus on expressing " the most honest form of femininity " . Joining Chlo ? was as natural " as breathing " , she said . She 'd been waiting to share her vision for many years . <p> Chemena correctly intuited that the world was ready to celebrate this empowered femininity . Throughout her presidential campaign this year , vice-president Kamala Harris looked spectacular in Chlo ? , delivering the biggest speech of her political career at the Democratic National Convention in a custom made Chlo ? suit . " Wearing Chlo ? is about feeling like yourself , " Chemena said . <p> Sienna Miller is an actor , model and fashion designer <h> Sally Rooney <h> by Lena Dunham <p> It 's getting hard to count how many generational voices , the chosen ones who will explain the nature of being female to the rest of us , are anointed each year , each month , each week , as if the greatest goal for any woman writer is that they become the pre-eminent source of information for and about women . <p> Sally Rooney 's first two novels , Conversations with Friends and Normal People , set sail on these winds , aided and abetted by TV shows that captured swooning hearts everywhere . Rooney 's dagger-sharp prose and spare , unconventional aesthetic were at times overshadowed by a Rooney industrial complex . <p> It was her third novel , Beautiful World , Where Are You , in which she went meta , telling the story of two best friends , one a famous novelist and one an editor barely scraping by , that made it clear that the issues that propel Rooney 's work , class dynamics , the politics of fame , what powers we need for self-expression , are not the issues that were imposed on her simply because of her age and gender . Intermezzo , her most ambitious novel by far , goes a step further , centring a pair of brothers and making their girlfriends the supporting observers , using quietly aerobic prose and point-of-view shifts to create something grand and intimate . It 's becoming even clearer that she 's not just the female voice of a generation , but the humane voice of a century . <p> Lena Dunham is a writer , actor and director <h> Who are FT readers ' women of 2024 ? <h> Emma Stone <h> by Kathryn Hunter <p> On my first day on the set of Poor Things , the most extraordinary thing happened . A child with the body of a young woman arrived , walking with the stumbling but purposeful gait of a two-year-old , eyes wide and brilliant . It was Emma , in character . I had heard about the incredible Emma Stone , read about her , seen her in films . But nothing could prepare me for the talent I witnessed in person . Her skill and dedication were unlike anything I 'd ever seen . <p> Playing Swiney to Emma 's Bella was a wondrous experience . I remember asking how we should orchestrate an ear-biting sequence . To my astonishment I was met with a confident , " Oh please , just go ahead and bite my ear . " Her performance will be remembered as a landmark in cinema history , and her awards -- an Oscar , Bafta and Golden Globe for Best Actress -- absolutely deserved . Emma is also a remarkable mother and businesswoman . She excels in every aspect of her life . <h> Elyanna <h> by Arwa Haider <p> Arabic pop culture felt globally amplified in 2024 , an overdue mainstream awakening headed up by strong female artists and diaspora voices . Among them , a spotlight fell on the charismatic Elyanna , aka Elian Marjieh , a 22-year-old Palestinian singer-songwriter . Her summer snapshots included being invited by Coldplay to join their headline set at Glastonbury . Watching it , you were struck by Elyanna 's sweetly melodic Arabic vocals but also her elegant , easy-going confidence . <p> Elyanna has earned heavyweight music industry backing from the likes of The Weeknd collaborator and Universal Arabic Music founder Wassim Slaiby . She has high-profile fans , including Lana Del Rey , who styled Elyanna 's video for the dreamy track " Al Kawn Janni Maak " , an Arabic take on " La Vie En Rose " . Musically , she coolly holds her own , spanning R&amp;B pop to zajal folk poetry . She made history at Coachella 2023 , where she performed the festival 's first ever full set in Arabic . As she points out : " Even if you do n't understand what I 'm saying , you can still feel it . " <p> Arwa Haider is an FT pop and culture critic <h> Charli XCX <h> by Gillian Anderson <p> This year , Charli has reclaimed the word " brat " for women everywhere , released an album that reached the top 10 in 12 countries , captivated Brooklyn with changing messages on a painted wall , and even influenced the US election , when she inadvertently set Kamala Harris 's campaign with young voters in motion . Charli has a clarity of vision and an unashamed audacity to act upon it . Throughout her genre-defying music career , she has shunned labels and customs in favour of staying true to herself . Charli 's clear sense of who she is and what she wants continues to be an inspiration to us all . <p> In a world where it can be exhausting to be the rebel , Charli can genuinely say , " I went my own way and I made it . " I ca n't wait to see how she wields her power next . <p> Gillian Anderson is an actor and author <h> Adejok ? Bakare <h> by Maria Balshaw <p> Adejok ? Bakare is a very special chef . She gives us food that breaks new ground and excites the heart as well as the taste buds . In her restaurants , first a pop up in Brixton and more recently at Chishuru in Fitzrovia , she gives us conviviality . This is a place you want to meet friends and explore new culinary horizons . <p> Nigeria-born Adejok ? is a trailblazer . This year she became the first Black woman to gain a Michelin star in the UK , for Chishuru , which is Nigerian-Ghanaian-global . Her restaurant is a fitting exemplar of this diverse , dynamic city . She is a proud bearer of her country 's and her continent 's culinary traditions , as we saw when she cooked a memorable dinner last autumn at Tate Modern . Only weeks after Chishuru opened she left her kitchen and cooked in honour of legendary Ghanaian artist El Anatsui on the occasion of his Hyundai Commission , " Behind the Red Moon " . The art and food were thrilling . <h> Heroes <p> Arundhati Roy <h> by Naomi Klein <p> After her 1997 Booker Prize-winning debut The God of Small Things , Arundhati Roy became a kind of self-assigning war correspondent . She sought out the places and people in India experiencing maximum pain , maximum injustice , maximum state violence : Kashmir , the Maoist insurgency , the aftermath of the Gujarat Massacre , nuclear weapons test sites , and the movement to defend the Narmada Valley from drowning . But she did not write about these conflicts and issues like a war reporter . She wrote about them like a novelist . <p> She brought her tremendous gifts as a writer -- her bottomless capacity for imagination , her devastating eye for detail and for the perfect , unforgettable metaphor -- to find poetry in protest chants and gallows humour in guerrilla warfare . So many struggles for justice and survival were better understood , more deeply felt , because she chose to help us see them through her artist 's eyes . <p> Roy was awarded the 2024 PEN Pinter Prize in April . In June , reports came that she could face charges under India 's draconian anti-terrorism laws . It 's a reminder that we can not take any writer 's freedom or safety for granted , no matter how renowned . A huge part of what I cherish about Roy is that , like the best public intellectuals , she helps us understand our moment in history . This is hard . Change is constant and mostly incremental ; big shifts tend to sneak up on us . How do we know when we are in a new chapter , one that requires different things of us ? We know , partly , because our writers tell us . <p> Naomi Klein is an author , journalist and associate professor of geography at the University of British Columbia . She gave the encomium for Arundhati Roy at this year 's PEN Pinter Prize <h> Bisan Owda <h> by Heba Saleh <p> Feisty , emotional and articulate , video blogger Bisan Owda , 26 , has become a voice of her people in Gaza , vividly documenting their plight under Israel 's offensive following the October 7 2023 attacks on the Jewish state . Owda has highlighted every aspect of the catastrophe , reaching millions around the world on social media , filming displacement camps , hungry children and shattered towns . She rages against Israel 's " genocide " and does not hide her tears . <p> Owda won an Emmy in September for her AJ+ documentary " It 's Bisan from Gaza and I am Still Alive " , filmed in October 2023 , when her family sought refuge along with thousands of others in the al-Shifa hospital in Gaza City . A US group , Creative Community For Peace , tried to get the nomination rescinded , accusing Owda of ties to a US-designated terrorist group , the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine . But the awarding body said it could find no link . Owda has also been awarded a Peabody : " For showing bravery and persistence in the midst of imminent danger , and for carrying a heavy journalistic burden as the entire world looks on . " <p> Heba Saleh is the FT 's Cairo correspondent <h> Gis ? le Pelicot <h> by Le ? la Slimani <p> The trial has already become historic . For 10 years , Gis ? le Pelicot , now aged 71 , was drugged by her husband and offered up to strangers recruited online . If the case fascinates it is not only because of the ignominy of the acts , in their magnitude and horrific banality , but because of the unique figure of the victim . After years of abuse , Pelicot has become a heroine , an icon of feminism . She could have had a closed trial but she chose to relive her suffering in public in the name of all victims of sexual violence , everywhere . <p> Each day in court she faced her husband and his 49 accomplices . Aged 22 to 67 , they were ordinary men -- journalists , fire fighters , civil servants . Each day , Pelicot resisted what they had done to her . She resisted the humiliation during the screening of the videos and during the accused 's petty excuses . Today , on walls all over France , you can find posters and graffitied images of her face , with those sunglasses , and one word : " Merci " . <p> Le ? la Slimani is a writer <h> Yulia Navalnaya <h> by Zhanna Nemtsova <p> Yulia Navalnaya devoted her life to her husband , Alexei , the most powerful Russian opposition politician of the Putin era . On the day of Alexei 's death , while incarcerated by the Russian state , Yulia was at the Munich Security Conference . She called on the global community to unite against the evil regime . I met Yulia that evening and spent a couple of hours with her and a handful of her closest allies . I was amazed at how she held herself together under such awful circumstances . My father , Boris Nemtsov , was also a prominent critic of Putin and was assassinated in 2015 in Moscow while organising a rally against the Russian invasion of Ukraine . Yulia was unsure what to do next , specifically whether or not to enter politics . But soon she announced that she would continue to fight for her late husband 's cause . Yulia is the first woman to have become the most influential leader in Russian resistance , ending the decades of male domination in opposition . The strength of her character and her ability not to bend under pressure make her an inspiring personality . <p> Zhanna Nemtsova is the co-founder of the Boris Nemtsov Foundation <h> Simone Biles <h> by Anna Wintour <p> What is there left to say about a young woman who requires ( and deserves ) almost every superlative in existence to even begin to describe her ? Simone Biles is , of course , the greatest and most decorated gymnast in history , as we all witnessed , again , this summer watching the Paris Olympics , where she gathered three more gold medals to add to the four she 'd already won . Inside Bercy Arena , Simone was simply radiant with both determination and positivity behind her trademark smile , something that I and the rest of the enraptured crowd felt with a palpable , almost electric force . <p> Perhaps nobody has ever harnessed such talent and strength in such a small frame . She stands at 4ft 8in , but her accomplishments are larger than life . She has demonstrated her bravery in so many ways : winning the US nationals with broken toes on both feet , winning the World Championships with a kidney stone . She 's also embodied a different kind of strength throughout her life , speaking about her struggles with ADHD and anxiety , her early years living in a foster home and , perhaps most memorably , about the abuse she and so many other gymnasts endured under a broken system . Amid all this , Simone has had the presence of mind and the hard-won confidence to know exactly who she is and how inspirational she can be . " I 'm not the next Usain Bolt or Michael Phelps , " she said at her first Olympics , in 2016 . " I 'm the first Simone Biles . " <h> Jasmin Paris <h> by Eilish McColgan <p> Less than 1 per cent of the UK population have finished a marathon . But there 's an even more elusive finish line no woman had ever crossed before this year . In March , Jasmin Paris became the first woman ever to complete the Barkley Marathons in Tennessee , one of the world 's most challenging ultra-marathons . The course , which changes every year , covers 100 miles and involves 60,000ft of climb and descent , about twice the height of Mount Everest . But Jasmin , a vet and mother of two from Scotland , has form when it comes to ultra-running . She won the UK 's 268-mile Montane Spine Race in 2019 , breaking the record by 12 hours -- despite stopping to express breastmilk for her baby . <p> These are monstrous feats of endurance , so to see a fellow Scot achieving them is hugely inspiring . I find the mental aspect of ultra-running fascinating . I do n't know what possesses someone to look at the Barkley Marathons and think , " 80 hours of running ? Yeah , I 'll give it a go . " Yet there 's something extraordinary about the people who do . They want to go beyond their limits , to experience something that not many others have . It 's not about speed . It 's about endurance . Jasmin has inspired so many other women to push outside their comfort zone and go beyond what 's deemed possible . <h> Anne Hidalgo <h> by Leila Abboud <p> Saying the name Anne Hidalgo to a resident of Paris provokes starkly different reactions . Some laud the capital 's mayor for her sweeping green initiatives . Others rant about profligate spending and traffic jams . But there is little debate over the credit that is due to the 65-year-old Socialist for helping to pull off a spectacular summer Olympic Games that featured events held against backdrops like the Eiffel Tower and Versailles . <p> Hidalgo , elected as the first female Paris mayor in 2014 , has said she will not run for a third term in 2026 . Rivals are already circling . She has put her mark on the city by enacting progressive policies like rent control and building more social housing , as well as setting an example for how municipalities can cut carbon emissions and plan for global warming even when international efforts stall -- a hard act to follow . <h> Leaders <p> Margrethe Vestager <h> by Lina Khan <p> Margrethe Vestager became the European commissioner for competition 10 years ago , at a time when policymakers generally viewed dominant tech platforms as benign , if not beneficial . But policymakers think differently about these companies in 2024 , in part because Margrethe thought differently about them in 2014 . She was one of the first law enforcers in the world ? to take action against these platforms for undermining competition , harming their users and stifling innovation -- actions that initially garnered reactions ranging from scepticism to scorn . <p> But Margrethe had the courage to stand her ground , even under pressure from powerful figures . Now , governments around the world have followed her lead and taken steps to rein in these companies . Time has largely proved her right . She deserves tremendous credit for shaping a decade-long conversation about fair competition in digital markets , a conversation that has played a part in changing the global economy . <p> Lina Khan is chair of the US Federal Trade Commission <h> Rachel Reeves <h> by Mariana Mazzucato <p> Rachel Reeves ' appointment as the first woman to be chancellor of the exchequer marks a crucial milestone . She is also the first Labour chancellor in 14 years . The significance of her achievement is matched only by the magnitude of the challenge she has inherited . She needs to kick-start what is currently a low-investment economy ( both public and private ) that is not delivering for the British people 's living standards , land and waterways , or the country 's crumbling infrastructure . <p> As chancellor , she has already implemented some encouraging changes , such as adjusting the nation 's fiscal rules to better measure returns on public investment , and increasing funds for health and education . Her true test will be whether she can tackle the current economic challenges , but with a positive narrative -- no more doom and gloom -- in order to inspire expectations of growth and increase people 's trust in the wider policymaking process . She should keep in mind an important lesson from the US election this year : that if voters do n't feel improvements in their everyday lives , even successful policies wo n't be rewarded . <p> Mariana Mazzucato is Professor at University College London and Director of the UCL Institute for Innovation and Public Purpose <h> Lisa Su <h> by Tsai Ing-wen <p> Lisa Su is a trailblazer . She started her journey in Taiwan , before moving to the US at the age of three . There she received her PhD in electrical engineering from MIT at the age of 24 . She was one of the first to research silicon-on-insulator technology . Since then , Su has made pivotal contributions to new semiconductor technologies that have introduced new industry standards , from Texas Instruments ' Semiconductor Process and Device Center , to IBM 's Emerging Production division , to Freescale Semiconductor . <p> Su has shattered glass ceilings , becoming the first female CEO to lead AMD , the AI chipmaker based in Silicon Valley , and she has broken stereotypes in her industry . She received the prestigious IEEE Robert N Noyce Medal for outstanding contributions , and has championed diversity , equality and inclusion in Stem industries . She is a role model , as well as an example of perseverance and strength who inspires us all . <p> Tsai Ing-wen is the former president of Taiwan <h> Ursula von der Leyen <h> by Kristalina Georgieva <p> Ursula von der Leyen has led the European Commission through a period of turbulence with grace and determination . I find myself aligned with her on many fronts . We both believe in building a strong economy . We both believe innovation can raise productivity and living standards . And we are both proud grandmothers dedicated to making the world a better place for future generations . <p> The NextGenerationEU plan she spearheaded is helping EU countries transform themselves to meet the challenges of a shock-prone world . The REPowerEU plan bolstered Europe 's energy security and ramped up production of renewable energy in line with its climate ambition . <p> In her second-term , her efforts to deepen the single market could usher in a new era of opportunities for people and businesses in Europe . <h> Kamala Harris <h> by Rana Foroohar <p> Kamala Harris never had an easy hand . With only 100 days in which to wage a presidential campaign , she had the heaviest lift imaginable , at the most crucial moment in American politics in decades . <p> We know the result , but it does n't negate her efforts . As the first woman of colour to be a nominee , she leveraged her passion for women 's rights , civil rights , the Supreme Court and a different US stance in Gaza to win over more younger voters and women . She changed the Democratic pitch from " democracy " to " freedom " , rebranding what had been a conservative word . And yet , she lost working-class voters in the places that mattered most as Trump solidified gains around the country . <p> This may have been because Harris failed to distance herself from billionaire donors trying to dictate policy . It may have been because she failed to win the conversation about jobs , tariffs and unions . Or it may simply have been that America was n't ready for its first female , minority president . Whatever the reasons , Harris 's candidacy changed the election , and the political debate , in 2024 and beyond . <p> Rana Foroohar is the FT 's global business columnist <h> Cristina Junqueira <h> by Luiza Trajano <p> Cristina Junqueira , co-founder of the world 's largest digital bank , Nubank , has always demonstrated a transformative restlessness . She began her career at the University of S ? o Paulo , where she graduated in industrial engineering , and worked her way up through Brazilian institutions including Ita ? Unibanco . Few know it , but our paths crossed when she was at LuizaCred ( a joint venture between Magalu and Ita ? ) . There , I was able to witness her commitment and attention to detail , and her constant search for innovation . Her ability to identify opportunities and lead change was proved with the founding of Nubank in 2013 , revolutionising the Brazilian financial system and promoting financial inclusion . <p> Since then , Nubank has grown a solid customer base and had a successful stock market listing . Cristina transformed challenges into innovation and built solutions that address real market needs . Her presence on this list reflects the importance of recognising leaders who shape the future with courage and strategic vision , which are so important in Brazil . <p> Luiza Helena Trajano is chairman of the board of Magazine Luiza and of the Women of Brazil Group <h> Fei-Fei Li <h> by Melinda French Gates <p> Known as " the godmother of AI " , Fei-Fei Li is one of the most important leaders on artificial intelligence in the world today , and one of the most creative and compassionate scientists I 've ever met . Not only did she help develop AI as we know it , but she is leading the charge to make sure it 's used to advance human dignity . For that to happen , more diverse perspectives need to be involved in developing and implementing AI technology , which is why she has helped students of all backgrounds break into the field through her non-profit , AI4ALL . <p> I loved learning more about Li 's hopeful vision for AI in her memoir , The Worlds I See . It 's a fascinating peek behind the curtain of a scientific breakthrough , as well as an inspiring personal story of her journey as an immigrant , daughter , student and teacher . <p> She 's now pushing the frontiers of AI to change people 's lives in tangible ways , such as enabling robots to deliver medical supplies and using augmented reality to help surgeons do safer , less invasive procedures . <p> I 'm grateful that Li is at the helm of this revolution . AI is such a powerful tool . We need leaders with moral sensibilities like hers to make sure power is used to serve humanity . <p> Melinda French Gates is a philanthropist and founder of Pivotal Ventures , which is focused on advancing social progress and increasing women 's power and influence globally <h> Claudia Sheinbaum <h> by Gillian Tett <p> When Claudia Sheinbaum Pardo assumed the role of president of Mexico in October 2024 , she made history in many ways . Not only is she the country 's first female president , but also the first former climate scientist to hold the post . Sheinbaum faces another historical moment : with Donald Trump about to become the 47th US president , she confronts an American leader who has threatened to slap 25 per cent trade tariffs on its southern neighbour to remake regional trade . <p> As former head of Mexico City , Sheinbaum has plenty of experience in dealing with tough challenges and is renowned for her steely character . Since she won the election with a landslide , she has enjoyed a strong mandate . But the task confronting her now will be momentous , since she comes from a leftwing party that embraces principles Trump 's team abhors . As a life-long feminist , she is determined to present a strong front against bullying tactics . Stand by for fireworks , and a big test of whether a woman can not just lead Mexico , but do so in the face of Trump 's own version of Maga machismo . <p> Gillian Tett is Provost of King 's College , Cambridge and an FT columnist <h> Christine Lagarde <h> by Minouche Shafik <p> Navigating rough waters is Christine Lagarde 's daily bread . She learnt her trade as a lawyer , as a minister in France , and as head of the IMF and the European Central Bank . But I suspect it is her experience as a synchronised swimmer and scuba diver that has helped most . Central banking is all about maintaining stability through confidence in the system , and Christine conveys serenity while working incredibly hard beneath the surface . <p> At the ECB , she has shown strength and clarity while synchronising policy across the 20 economies of the Eurozone to tame inflation through a pandemic and the war in Ukraine . Her eight years at the IMF saw her contain debt crises in several Eurozone countries and stop contagion to the rest of the world economy . She put in place programmes to stabilise countries around the world with a more flexible approach to fiscal policy that protected the most vulnerable . <p> Scuba diving enables her to see things that others on the surface might miss -- like the fact that climate change imposes risks to financial stability or recognising that having more diverse views around the table guards against groupthink . Her inclusive style of leadership means that she has motivated sailors on every ship that she captains . <p> Minouche Shafik is a member of the House of Lords <h> Julia Hoggett <h> by Sharon White <p> Julia Hoggett gives hope and optimism to women and gay people everywhere that you can be an outstanding leader and be yourself . The word " authentic " is so overused , but that is what she is . Whip-smart , articulate , open and brave . Walking into a room of business leaders in the UK , you can count the number of women on two hands . The fact that Julia is among that tiny number is wonderful . <p> There is almost no more important financial role in Britain today than the one she holds as CEO of the London Stock Exchange , making sure London can supply the capital that great companies need to grow . She 's not afraid to court controversy when she feels it is warranted , as with her call for a " constructive discussion " on UK CEO pay , which is far outstripped by US salaries . And at a time when so many leaders are retreating from action on diversity and inclusion , Julia does the opposite . She tells her own story of coming out as a gay woman with confidence , and works tirelessly to open up opportunities to talented people under-represented in finance . <p> Sharon White is a former chairman of the John Lewis Partnership <h> Ruth Porat <h> by Jane Fraser <p> Enter Ruth Porat 's name into a Google search and you will receive hundreds of results highlighting her accomplishments as a leader : a trailblazer at Morgan Stanley , a trusted adviser to the US Treasury department during the 2008 financial crisis and the longest-serving CFO of Google . <p> What the headlines wo n't tell you is how Ruth leads . She knows how to instil financial discipline without stifling innovation . She leans heavily on data without sacrificing creativity . She knows how to invest for the long term without losing sight of what needs to get done today . And she believes in technology as a force for good . For instance , she 's currently leading an effort at Alphabet to understand how AI can detect and diagnose breast cancer . <p> I am always in awe of Ruth 's optimism , resilience and determination to get the job done . Ruth is a powerhouse . If you do n't believe me , Google it .
