<h> Thousands of Chabad rabbis meet in the shadow of UAE murder <p> Rabbis recite a prayer at the annual group photo in front of the Chabad-Lubavitch world headquarters ( Shmulie Grossbaum/Chabad.org ) <p> Last week in New Jersey , at the gala banquet capping off Chabad 's 41st annual International Conference , 6,500 rabbis made a shiva call to Jerusalem . <p> " All of us will jointly extend our condolences , " Rabbi Levi Duchman , the chief rabbi in the United Arab Emirates , said to an audience seated around hundreds and hundreds of round tables , everyone Zoomed into Israel . <p> Levi Duchman , chief Chabad rabbi of the United Arab Emirates <p> Behind Duchman was the image of planet Earth , showing the breadth of Chabad outposts all over the world . Chabad , an organisation known to Jews all over the world is famous for having emissaries , or shluchim , everywhere , including remote locales places with minuscule Jewish populations . In attendance were rabbis from more than 100 countries and all 50 American states . <p> Rabbis of the Caribbean mixed with rabbis from all over Europe and South America , as they 've done for decades . <p> But this year 's conference was different . <p> The UAE have released the names and photos of the three suspects arrested in connection with the murder of Rabbi Zvi Kogan <p> Just a week before , Chabad had lost one of their own : Rabbi Zvi Kogan , an emissary to the United Arab Emirates , had been abducted and murdered by Uzbek citizens , allegedly in the pay of Iran . <p> Back in New Jersey , the crowd stood from their seats . <p> " May Hashem comfort you among all mourners of Zion and Jerusalem . " Duchman recited from behind his podium , as Kogan 's family watched along in Jerusalem from his parent 's house . <p> The tragedy in UAE is just one of many during a difficult year filled with skyrocketing antisemitism , war in Israel , and war in Ukraine . It 's also one of many tragedies Chabad has dealt with since the 1950s , when the Chabad spiritual leader , also known as the Rebbe , Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson , began the custom of sending shluchim across the world to support Jews wherever they may wander . <p> This year 's conference , held throughout Crown Heights , the Brooklyn neighbourhood where the Chabad movement is headquartered , was the largest rabbinic gathering in the world . The theme was lech lecha , which means " go forth " -- God 's commandment to Abraham to spread the message of one God to others . <p> The annual group photo of all the Chabad Shluchim ( Shmulie Grossbaum/Chabad.org ) <p> You ca n't allow tragedy to transform " into group misery or group fear or even rage , " Rabbi Yosef Chaim Kantor , an emissary in Bangkok , who has attended the conference for 31 years , told the JC . <p> " Our job is to make sure that the memory of the rabbi Zvi Kogan and the energy of his life gets transformed into and multiplied in a way that should counter the evil and the darkness , " he said . " We have a collective searing pain , a hole that can not be filled , but the pain needs to be taken to a place of action , movement , growth . " <p> It 's the same message the Rebbe had given his followers in 1956 after a terror attack at a Jerusalem Chabad school left five children and their teacher dead : turn towards Torah and mitzvot , he said , and grow . <p> Coming together at the convention was powerful , because " We 're all in the same boat , " Kantor said . Whether on college campuses or in countries thousands of miles away , " We 're all identified as Jewish . We 're all high profile . Our job is to bring people together . Our job is to be out there dressed the way we 're dressed , exuding the confidence that we exude , confidence only in Hashem . " <p> The five-day conference , also known as the kinus , meaning gathering of people , was filled with workshops held throughout Crown Heights about European Jewry , rising antisemitism , fundraising , Jewish life on campus , social media , end-of-life counseling , and mental health , but the sessions were merely " a technicality , " Rabbi Bentzi Sudak of Chabad-Lubavitch of Hampstead Garden Suburb in London , who has attended the conference for 20 years , told the JC . " It 's the energy that you feel that can not really be put into words . " <p> What truly matters is the shmoozing , Kantor said . " Getting together and encouraging each other , taking ideas from each other , networking , brain brainstorming . It 's the water cooler conversations in the tents outside the Rebbe 's resting place . " <p> Rabbis at the Ohel in Queens ( Shmulie Grossbaum/Chabad.org ) <p> The Rebbe passed away in 1994 , and the conference included a visit to his Queens grave . In the coffee area outside , Kantor bumped into a fellow rabbi who informed him of a philanthropist who wanted to support his work . It was a connection he would have not made if he had n't attended . <p> Every year since 1984 , the rabbis attending gather outside the Chabad headquarters for a group photo , filled with thousands of black-hatted rabbis who all attempt to look at the camera at the same time . It 's a very Jewish version of Where 's Wally . A joyous moment , yet , even then , the rabbis acknowledged their losses , saying prayers for Israel , the hostages , and for Kogan <p> Much of the conference may have seemed similar to past events , Rabbi Motti Seligson , director of media at Chabad , told the JC : " The overall principles are the same , overall values , and the work that needs to be done is the same ... We are talking about Jewish life from cradle to grave , every minute of the day and every minute of the night . " <p> Having a shiva call at a gala is " quite poignant and quite difficult , " Sudak said . " You 're looking at your colleague 's father on the screen . That really shakes you . Your reaction to that is , ' We must not let the Jewish people be defined by that . ' " <p> Instead , he said , you need to create meaning for Jewish culture and Jewish identity that is joyful and not defined by antisemitism . <p> The gala was also attended by influencers and politicians including US congressmen Mike Lawler and Ritchie Torres . <p> There were hours of speeches by Chabad emissaries who spoke different languages , including by a rabbi who used sign language to share how he uses what some see as a handicap to connect with others . In a video , one Maryland urologist shared how Chabad helped him learn to spread mitzvot himself , showing the ripple effect of their work . Even Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu sent recorded remarks . The event ended with everyone up and bouncing , grabbing each other 's shoulders and dancing with joy . <p> ( Shmulie Grossbaum/Chabad.org ) <p> On his journey back to Thailand , Kantor plans to stop in Israel to visit a first cousin whose son was killed in Gaza . With over 20 hours of travel , he will have plenty of time to decompress . <p> The conference , the mourning , the banquet , the dancing was " a collective hug that we have for each other , " Kantor said . " The collective hug that we are empowered to transmit to the people of Israel , to the Jews , and to humanity . "
