<h> Live feed <h> IDF claims hundreds of strikes in Syria over last 48 hours <p> The latest update from the Israeli military says it has carried out more than 350 airstrikes targeting weapons stockpiles and strategic infrastructure in Syria over the past 48 hours . <p> In a statement posted to X , the Israeli Defense Forces ( IDF ) said the air force conducted the crewed aircraft missile strikes on Syrian military targets including weapons production sites in the cities of Damascus , Homs , Tartus , Latakia and Palmyra . <p> ? In 48 hours , the IDF struck most of the strategic weapons stockpiles in Syria to prevent them from falling into the hands of terrorist elements . ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ' ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? : <p> The targets included airfields , anti-aircraft batteries , drones , aircraft and tanks . <p> The IDF said 130 strikes were " during ground operations " and aimed at weapons depots , military structures , launchers and firing positions . <p> Israeli defense minster Israel Katz said earlier Tuesday that the Syrian navy fleet was wiped out in overnight strikes , and that Israeli ground troops were " establishing themselves " in the buffer zone between Syria and the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights . <p> At least seven Palestinians were killed and several others wounded in an Israeli airstrike on a house in the Nuseirat camp in the central part of the Gaza Strip , medics told Reuters early on Wednesday . <p> And in Beit Hanoun town in northern Gaza , medics said an Israeli airstrike killed and wounded several people . Rescue workers said several people were trapped under the rubble of a house . <p> There was no immediate comment from the Israeli military on the two attacks reported by Palestinian medics . <p> A Palestinian woman and a child stand at the door of a house next to a building destroyed during an Israeli strike in the Nuseirat camp in the central Gaza Strip , on 10 December 2024 . Photograph : Eyad Baba/AFP/Getty Images <p> Israeli forces have been operating in Beit Hanoun , the nearby town of Beit Lahiya and the Jabalia refugee camp since 5 October , fighting Hamas militants waging attacks from those areas and preventing them from regrouping . <p> The Biden administration has urged the rebel group that led the ouster of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad not to assume automatic leadership of the country but instead run an inclusive process to form a transitional government , Reuters reports , citing two US officials and a congressional aide briefed on the first US contacts with the group . <p> The communications with Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , a group formerly allied with al-Qaida and designated a terrorist organisation by the US , are being conducted in coordination with Washington 's Middle East allies , including Turkey . The administration is also in touch with president-elect Donald Trump 's team about the matter , one of the officials said . <p> The discussions , which have taken place over the last several days , are part of a larger effort by Washington to coordinate with various groups inside Syria as it tries to navigate the chaotic aftermath of the sudden collapse of the Assad regime on Sunday . <p> The US-backed , Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) and Syria 's Turkey-backed rebels reached a ceasefire agreement in the northern city of Manbij through US mediation " to ensure the safety and security of civilians , " SDF commander Mazloum Abdi said early on Wednesday , Reuters reports . <p> " The fighters of the Manbij Military Council , who have been resisting the attacks since November 27 , will withdraw from the area as soon as possible , " Abdi added . <h> Summary of the day <p> It 's just after 2am in Damascus and Moscow , and 1am in Beirut , Tel Aviv and Gaza City . Here 's what we 've been following today : <p> Israel says it has carried out more than 350 airstrikes targeting weapons stockpiles and strategic infrastructure in Syria over the past 48 hours . The IDF said the air force conducted the crewed aircraft missile strikes on Syrian military targets including weapons production sites in the cities of Damascus , Homs , Tartus , Latakia and Palmyra . It said 130 strikes were " during ground operations " and aimed at weapons depots , military structures , launchers and firing positions . <p> The world " has nothing to fear " from the new Syrian regime , the leader of rebel group Hayat Tahrir al Sham ( HTS ) has told Sky News in what the network says are his first comments to a western media outlet since his organization toppled Bashar al-Assad on Sunday . Ahmed al-Sharaa , also known as Abu Mohammed al-Jolani , attempted to reassure foreign nations in his remarks and promised Syria " will be rebuilt " . <p> Russian deputy foreign minister Sergei Ryabkov said Moscow is " providing sanctuary " for deposed Syrian leader Bashar al-Assad , having transported him to Moscow on Sunday " in the most secure way possible " . " He is secured , and it shows that Russia acts as required in such an extraordinary situation , " he told NBC News . <p> Two US warships escorting three merchant vessels in the Gulf of Aden successfully repelled a drone and missile attack by Houthi rebels early Tuesday , according to the US Central Command ( Centcom ) . " US navy destroyers USS Stockdale ( DDG 106 ) and USS O'Kane ( DDG 77 ) successfully defeated a range of Houthi-launched weapons while transiting the Gulf of Aden , Dec 9-10 , " it said in a statement posted to social media . <p> The insurgent group that overthrew Bashar al-Assad 's government in Syria claims to have wrested control of the eastern city of Deir el-Zour after intense battles with the Kurdish-led , US-backed Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) , AP reported . A member of the Islamic group Hayat al-Tahrir Sham ( HTS ) said in a recorded video that the group would sweep neighborhoods to secure the city . The nearby city of Boukamal had also fallen to HTS , the person said , adding that Raqqa and Hasakah were subsequent targets . <p> The US has asked Syria 's Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) rebel group to help locate and free missing American journalist Austin Tice , a state department official told reporters on Tuesday . The release of photojournalist Tice , who was abducted and imprisoned by Bashar al-Assad 's regime in 2012 , is a top priority of the Biden administration in the aftermath of the dictator 's overthrow , Matthew Miller , a state department spokesperson , said at a Tuesday briefing , Reuters reported . <p> Outgoing US secretary of state , Antony Blinken , has called for an " inclusive " political process in Syria , saying the US would eventually recognise a new government if it renounces terrorism , destroys chemical weapons stocks and protects the rights of minorities and women . " The Syrian people will decide the future of Syria . All nations should pledge to support an inclusive and transparent process and refrain from external interference , " Blinken said in a statement . <p> The UN would consider taking the Syrian rebel group that toppled the regime of Bashar al-Assad off its designated terrorist listif it passes the key test of forming a truly inclusive transitional government , according to a senior official at the world body . Geir Pedersen , UN special envoy for Syria , held out the prospect of removing Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) from the organisation 's list of proscribed terrorist groups . But he said the group could not seek to govern Syria in the way that it had governed Idlib , the northern province where it was based and from where it led the military breakout that resulted in the sudden collapse of the Assad regime . <h> Syrian rebels make further advances <p> The insurgent group that overthrew Bashar al-Assad 's government in Syria claims to have wrested control of the eastern city of Deir el-Zour after intense battles with the Kurdish-led , US-backed Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) , AP reported . <p> A member of the Islamic group Hayat al-Tahrir Sham ( HTS ) said in a recorded video that the group would sweep neighborhoods to secure the city . The nearby city of Boukamal had also fallen to HTS , the person said , adding that Raqqa and Hasakah were subsequent targets . <p> Separately , the UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said at least 218 people were killed in three days of fighting between Turkish-backed forces and the SDF in Manbij , a city 280 miles ( 450km ) north east of Damascus , AFP said . <p> Reuters reported Monday that the US and Turkey reached an agreement for the safe withdrawal of SDF fighters from Manjib . Turkish president Tayyip Erdogan praised what he said was a clearing out of " terrorists " from the city , which the SDF captured three days earlier . <h> US warships repel Gulf of Aden missile attack <p> Two US warships escorting three merchant vessels in the Gulf of Aden successfully repelled a drone and missile attack by Houthi rebels early Tuesday , according to a social media post by US Central Command ( Centcom ) . <p> " The destroyers successfully engaged and defeated multiple one-way attack uncrewed aerial systems and one anti-ship cruise missile , ensuring the safety of the ships and their personnel , as well as civilian vessels and their crews . " <p> A statement from the Yemen-based Houthi rebels said they had targeted the five ships . Attacks on merchant shipping have become increasingly common since Israeli launched military action in Gaza in response to the Hamas terrorist attacks of 7 October 2023 . <p> The media advocacy group Reporters Without Borders has said deposed Syrian president Bashar al-Assad must face trial for the murders and mistreatment of scores of journalists . <p> In a statement , Jonathan Dagher , the group 's Middle East desk chief , also said the situation in Syria remained perilous for journalists after the seizure of power by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , an Islamic rebel group accused of killing six journalists and abducting at least eight others between 2012 and 2019 : <p> With more than 180 journalists killed and executed by the regime and its allies since 2011 , and with the imprisonment and torture of reporters in his prisons , Bashar al-Assad made Syria one of the worst countries in the world for media professionals . <p> We demand that Assad be prosecuted for his crimes . Justice , long overdue , must finally be served for all victims of his abuses . <h> US asks Hayat Tahrir al-Sham to help locate American journalist Austin Tice <p> The US has asked Syria 's Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) rebel group to help locate and free missing American journalist Austin Tice , a state department official told reporters on Tuesday . <p> The release of photojournalist Tice , who was abducted and imprisoned by Bashar al-Assad 's regime in 2012 , is a top priority of the Biden administration in the aftermath of the dictator 's overthrow , Matthew Miller , a state department spokesperson , said at a Tuesday briefing , Reuters reported . <p> Miller said that message had been sent via intermediaries to HTS , the faction that led the rebel operation that unseated Assad and which the US considers a terror group . <p> " In all of our communications with parties that we know talk to HTS , we have sent very clearly the message that as they move through Syria liberating prisons , our top priority is the return of Austin Tice , " he said . <p> " We want anyone who 's operating on the ground in Syria to be on the lookout for him , and if they do find him , to return to him to us safely as soon as possible . " <p> On Sunday , Biden told reporters at the White House : " We think we can get him back " , while acknowledging he had " no direct evidence " of the status of Tice , a journalist from Houston , Texas , whose work has appeared in newspapers including the Washington Post . <p> The Guardian 's Ruth Michaelson reports on the death in the notorious Sednaya prison of Mazen al-Hamada , a Syrian human rights activist whose torture and suffering became a symbol of the Assad regime : <p> When he spoke to lawmakers and in lecture theatres around the world , Mazen al-Hamada 's face told the story of brutal torture by Bashar al-Assad 's regime . The discovery of the Syrian activist 's body inside the notorious Sednaya prison on the outskirts of Damascus brought the news that he never lived to see its downfall . <p> Mazen al-Hamada . Photograph : FreeMazan/Twitter <p> Hamada 's sunken eyes and haunted face , his tears as he described the depth of horrors he experienced , made him a symbol of the crimes the Assad regime committed against those who spoke out against it . <p> Hamada was detained and tortured alongside tens of thousands of people after the 2011 uprising against Assad 's rule . <p> " Mazen had endured torture so cruel , so unimaginable , that his retellings carried an almost otherworldly weight . When he spoke , it was as if he stared into the face of death itself , pleading with the angel of mortality for just a little more time , " wrote Hamada 's friend , the photographer and director Sakir Khader . <p> He " became one of the most important witnesses against Assad 's regime " , he said . <h> IDF claims hundreds of strikes in Syria over last 48 hours <p> The latest update from the Israeli military says it has carried out more than 350 airstrikes targeting weapons stockpiles and strategic infrastructure in Syria over the past 48 hours . <p> In a statement posted to X , the Israeli Defense Forces ( IDF ) said the air force conducted the crewed aircraft missile strikes on Syrian military targets including weapons production sites in the cities of Damascus , Homs , Tartus , Latakia and Palmyra . <p> ? In 48 hours , the IDF struck most of the strategic weapons stockpiles in Syria to prevent them from falling into the hands of terrorist elements . ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ' ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? : <p> The targets included airfields , anti-aircraft batteries , drones , aircraft and tanks . <p> The IDF said 130 strikes were " during ground operations " and aimed at weapons depots , military structures , launchers and firing positions . <p> Israeli defense minster Israel Katz said earlier Tuesday that the Syrian navy fleet was wiped out in overnight strikes , and that Israeli ground troops were " establishing themselves " in the buffer zone between Syria and the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights . <p> Hezbollah leaders have expressed their displeasure at Israel 's military action in Syria , rejecting what the group calls an " occupation " by the country it has itself been fighting in Lebanon . <p> " We hope to see Syria stabilize ... and take a firm stand against Israeli occupation , while preventing foreign interference in its affairs , " the Iran-backed armed group said in a statement , reported by AFP . <p> The Israeli military said Tuesday it had struck most of the strategic weapons stockpiles in Syria in the last 48 hours , and that missile ships struck two Syrian navy facilities . It has also sent troops into Syria from the demilitarized buffer zone adjoining the country . <p> Israel says it is trying to stop weapons from the ousted Assad regime falling into the hands of Islamic extremists . <p> With little more than a month to go until Joe Biden leaves office , the outgoing US president is making a final concerted push for a ceasefire in the 14-month-old Israel-Hamas war . <p> He is sending more senior aides to the Middle East in the next few weeks , a White House official said Tuesday , reported by Reuters . <p> Jon Finer , the US deputy national security advisor , told the news agency there was " increased energy " towards a ceasefire after this month 's deal between Israel and Hezbollah : <p> There is a momentum in that process ; that momentum increased when we and our partners achieved a ceasefire in the conflict between Israel and Hezbollah in Lebanon . <p> Finer did not specify which officials were going to the region or what progress they have made . Israel , the Gaza militant group Hamas , and a number of third parties have been involved in negotiations . <p> Biden 's team is in touch with incoming president Donald Trump on regional issues , Finer said , including efforts to secure the release of the American journalist Austin Tice , kidnapped in Syria more than a decade ago . <h> HTS leader says world ' has nothing to fear ' from new Syrian regime <p> The world " has nothing to fear " from the new Syrian regime , the leader of rebel group Hayat Tahrir al Sham ( HTS ) has told Sky News in what the network says are his first comments to a western media outlet since his organization toppled Bashar al-Assad on Sunday . <p> Ahmed al-Sharaa , also known as Abu Mohammed al-Jolani , attempted to reassure foreign nations in his remarks , Sky said , and he promised Syria " will be rebuilt " : <p> Their fears are unnecessary , God willing . The fear was from the presence of the Assad regime . The country is moving towards development and reconstruction . It 's going towards stability . <p> People are exhausted from war . So the country is n't ready for another one and it 's not going to get into another one . <p> The source of our fears was from the Iranian militias , Hezbollah and the regime which committed the massacres we are seeing today . So their removal is the solution for Syria . The current situation wo n't allow for a return to panic . <p> Israel 's prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu , who appeared in court in Tel Aviv on Tuesday facing corruption charges , has found time to post to X a short video threatening Syria 's new leaders if they engage Iran . <p> " If the new regime in Syria allows Iran to re-establish itself , or allows the transfer of weapons to Hezbollah , we will respond strongly and exact a heavy price from it , " Netanyahu said , in a Google translation from the post 's original Hebrew . <p> Russia 's deputy foreign minister has been talking with NBC News , telling the network in an interview billed as exclusive that his country is providing sanctuary for Bashar al-Assad having transported him to Moscow on Sunday " in the most secure way possible " . <p> The admission from Sergei Ryabkov is the first time a Russian official has confirmed the former Syrian leader 's presence in the country , NBC said . Ryabkov said : <p> He is secured , and it shows that Russia acts as required in such an extraordinary situation . <p> I have no idea what is going on with him right now . It would be very wrong for me to elaborate on what happened and how it was resolved . <p> Ryabkov said Russia would continue to support Assad , and would refuse to hand him over to the international criminal court ( ICC ) to be tried for human rights abuses if asked . <p> " Russia is not a party to the convention that established the ICC , " Ryabkov said . <h> Israeli military says it has struck most of Syria 's strategic weapons stockpiles <p> The Israeli military said it had struck most of the strategic weapons stockpiles in Syria in the last 48 hours , and that Israeli naval missile ships had struck two Syrian navy facilities . Israel has been striking several areas across Syria , claiming it is trying to stop weapons from the ousted Assad regime falling into the hands of Islamic extremists . <p> The UK-based war monitor , the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , said Israel has carried out more than 300 airstrikes across the country since Bashar al-Assad was overthrown on Sunday . <p> The UK government on Tuesday defended its decision to carve-out components of F-35 fighter jets from its suspension of some export licenses to Israel , despite a previous admission of a " clear risk " that the components might be used to commit or facilitate a violation of international humanitarian law ( IHL ) . <p> On Tuesday , UK arms exports to Israel came under scrutiny by the business and trade select committee , after a September decision by the Labour government to suspend 30 of 350 existing arms licenses excluding all UK components for the F-35 fighter jet programme . <p> " Nobody can fail to be moved by the horrific pictures we see on our television screens , " defence minister , Lord Coaker , told the committee . <p> " The programme that the F-35 is part of which delivers peace and security in many parts of the world and defends our freedom and we have to make those judgements and they 're tough judgements to make . " <p> An Israeli F35 fighter jet takes off from an undisclosed location in central Israel in April 2024 . Photograph : Abir Sultan/EPA <p> The government made its September decision based on evidence concerning the treatment of Palestinian prisoners and restrictions on the supply of humanitarian aid to Gaza . <p> However , it has n't reached a definitive conclusion on allegations regarding Israel 's conduct of hostilities in the ongoing conflict that has killed more than 44,000 people in Gaza and destroyed much of the territory 's infrastructure . <p> According to court documents , in the government 's previous assessment of Israel 's record of compliance with IHL , it was unable to reach a decision in 411 of 413 incidents considered , which campaigners have called " unprecedented " . <p> " We have to have concrete evidence that IHL is being violated and it is a reality that deaths and destruction do not automatically equate to IHL violation , " said the foreign office 's director for defence and international security , Stephen Lillie . <p> Ministers said it was possible for F-35 components contributed by the UK - such as ejector seats and batteries - to be tracked by the US , where they are sent . The committee also questioned whether information from reconnaissance flights over Gaza in recent months is used to assess IHL violations . <p> Coaker said the purpose of the RAF flights was to look for hostages and see if they could be found . He added : " We 're not ignoring it , but we 're not using it for that purpose . " <p> The government said it is currently undergoing its ninth legal assessment by the UK foreign office of whether Israel is in breach of IHL . Licenses for arms exports to Israel are due to be debated in Parliament on Monday . <p> The Lebanese army has said it had fired warning shots after gunmen crossed the border from Syria , approached an army border post and fired shots in the air . The army said the warning shots forced the gunmen to return to Syria , Reuters reports . We will give you more on this developing story as we get it . <p> There are legitimate concerns about the risks of sectarian violence in Syria and a resurgence of extremism in the country , the EU 's new foreign policy chief Kaja Kallas has said . <p> " It is very , very early to tell whether this goes to the right direction , " the former Estonian prime minister said , adding that " the first signals are good , but we are not rushing into any kind of arrangements yet , if we do n't have certainty " . <p> EU foreign ministers are expected to discuss the rapidly developing situation in Syria when they meet in Brussels on 16 December . <p> Kallas said the fall of the brutal Assad regime , which was backed militarily by Iran and Russia , represented a blow for Moscow and Tehran . <p> " For Putin and the Iranian regime , the fall of Assad is a huge blow for both , " she said .
