<h> Record levels of antisemitism on UK campuses , CST report reveals <p> CST recorded 325 university-related antisemitic incidents in the last two academic years -- compared to the 150 university incidents recorded between 2020-2022 . ( CST ) <p> University-related antisemitic incidents have increased by 117 per cent over the last two academic years , according to figures released by the Community Security Trust ( CST ) on Monday . <p> The scale of antisemitism on Britain 's university campuses has reached unprecedented levels , with a total of 325 antisemitic incidents , the highest ever recorded in relation to universities . These include 53 incidents in 2022/23 and 272 in 2023/24 . The figures mark a sharp increase from the 150 incidents logged in the two previous academic years . <p> The surge coincided with the fallout from the October 7 terror attacks in Israel and the conflict in Gaza , which triggered a spike in anti-Jewish hatred . October 2023 alone saw 85 university-related incidents , the highest monthly total ever recorded . The incidents recorded that month outstripped the totals for the entirety of the previous academic year and were the highest monthly total ever recorded . <p> Top 10 universities with the highest number of incidents ( CST ) <p> Among the litany of incidents were ten violent assaults , including one where eggs were hurled at a group of Jewish students in St Andrews returning from an event with the Chief Rabbi . In Cambridge , a student wearing a Jewish Society ( JSoc ) fleece was spat on , while in another episode , a Jewish student wearing a kippah was told to move away from a Gaza encampment because his very presence was deemed " provocative . " <p> Most incidents fell under the category of abusive behaviour , which includes verbal attacks , antisemitic graffiti , and online abuse . At one student union , graffiti reading " Kikes out " defaced a toilet cubicle . In another case , Hitler was glorified in a student WhatsApp group , with messages such as " I 'd bring Hitler back if I could . " At the National Union of Student ( NUS ) conference , swastikas and " f*** Zios " were daubed onto several toilets . <p> Swastikas at the NUS conference ( CST ) <p> The CST recorded 26 threats , including bomb hoaxes and violent messages . In one instance , a JSoc was sent an email threatening mass murder : " I placed multiple explosives inside of the Synagogues . The explosives are well hidden and they will go off in the morning . Everyone inside will die in a pool of blood " . These emails were found to be a hoax , designed to intimidate Jewish communities across the country . In another incident , a JSoc received a death threat on X that stated : " I 'm going to kill you and your whole forkin team sic " . <p> One hundred and fifty-two of the 325 incidents during these two years occurred online , 138 of which were recorded in the academic year 2023/24 . In one example , a JSoc WhatsApp group was infiltrated by trolls who bombarded it with antisemitic slurs , forcing the group to shut down . The unknown individuals in the group chat posted on October 12 2023 " F**** Israel " and " f***ing dirty Jewish c***s " . Following the incident , the JSoc removed the individuals , closed the group chat , and set up a new one with tighter safeguards . <p> Shortly after the Hamas massacre , a JSoc WhatsApp group chat was subjected to coordinated harassment for several infiltrators ( CST ) <p> Some of the perpetrators recorded by the CST were university staff and student union officers - those entrusted with creating safe environments for students . The CST reported 23 such incidents by staff in 2023/24 . <p> During one incident , a faculty member at a university posted on X " Hebrew propaganda reveals some very devious lies . The ease with which the Jew , whether ordinary or influential , describes the mutilations of war is indicative of a placid cruelty " and " Ethnic cleansing is their proven goal . Blood is their only guide , their master is the devil " . On the same day he also posted a Martin Luther quote invoking blood libel stating : " The Jews have been the bloodthirsty sleuths and murderers of all Christendom for over fourteen hundred years " . <p> The report noted 21 antisemitic incidents involving students ' union officers or student societies over the two academic years : 18 incidents in 2023/24 and three during 2022/23 . The CST said , " These incidents can often leave Jewish students reluctant to engage with student union officers elected to represent them or to participate in specific student societies . " <p> In one incident , during a bar crawl organised by the Medical Society and Law Society , students drawing on T-shirts wrote " I heartHitler " , " Jew " and a caricatured Jewish face on the back of a known Jewish student 's T-shirt . <p> During other incidents , student unions were plastered with posters calling for " Intifada until victory " , a union officer took to social media to glorify Hamas 's October 7 attack and a student union passed a ceasefire motion which included an article calling for the union to invest educational resources into " How to spot lies , propaganda and Zionism " . Jewish students who attempted to speak against this motion were reportedly intimidated and harassed , with one student who took the stage to speak being escorted out by security for his safety according to the CST . <p> Posters calling " Intifada until Victory ! The fight for a free Palestine " were plastered on campus . ( CST ) <p> There were four incidents of mass-produced antisemitic literature , compared to no reports in the previous two years . During one incident , staff members at a sociology department found copies of the newspaper " The Light " - notorious for Holocaust revisionism and explicit antisemitism - in their campus building . <p> In response to the alarming report , CST Chief Executive Mark Gardner said : " British universities have suffered for decades with antisemitism , but these latest figures are worse than ever before . Jewish students should be able to lead a normal life and CST 's report includes several recommendations to that end to crack down on this anti-Jewish hatred and provide Jewish students with the support and protection that they need and deserve . " <p> Gardner called on university authorities , the government and the police to stand up to " extremists who are permitted to harass , intimidate and disrupt on campus . " <p> Union of Jewish Students president , Sami Berkoff , noted that " stark picture of the challenges faced by Jewish students and staff " . <p> " It is clear that urgent action is needed . It is essential to recognise that antisemitism does not exist in a vacuum . The legitimisation of extremist rhetoric on campuses , including support for terror groups , emboldens protestors and further alienates Jewish students . Universities must reaffirm their commitment to being inclusive spaces by taking strong and unequivocal stances against all forms of hate . <p> " No student should need to choose between their faith and their education or feel unsafe expressing their identity . If universities fail to protect Jewish students , they fail in their broader mission to foster safe and inclusive communities for all , " Berkoff said .
