<p> The collapse of Syrian President Bashar Assad 's regime creates new uncertainties , yet from an Israeli security perspective represents a net strategic gain . <p> Iran invested tens of billions of dollars and over a decade of effort into smuggling advanced weaponry and deploying tens of thousands of Shi'ite militia operatives in Syria . Those efforts have now been wasted . <p> After losing its influence in Gaza and Lebanon due to Israel 's military achievements against Hamas and Hezbollah , Assad 's collapse in Syria has delivered another major defeat to Iran 's regional aspirations . <p> The Assad regime was one of the central pillars of Iran 's plan to achieve regional hegemony , and for positioning its axis in a manner intended to lead to Israel 's collapse . <p> The bridge Iran constructed to link itself to the Mediterranean and Israel 's northern doorstep has collapsed . The scale of Iran 's loss in Syria , in terms of money , arms , time and effort , can not be overstated . Iran 's regional stance , already deteriorating , has now been further weakened . <p> The Assad regime was an integral part of an Iranian " ring of fire " that would encircle the Jewish state with heavily armed proxy terror armies . The ring of fire vision was pioneered by the late Iranian Quds Force commander Qassem Soleimani . <p> It was one of the factors that turned the Iranian-led Shi'ite axis into the most capable and dangerous of Israel 's adversaries . <p> Assad 's downfall is a direct knock-on effect from the devastating blows that Iran 's main regional proxy , Hezbollah , suffered in neighboring Lebanon . Israeli aerial and ground operations left Hezbollah severely weakened . The Sunni rebels in neighboring Syria saw their chance and took it . <p> Assad lacked capable allies -- Hezbollah could not send in ground reinforcements from Lebanon like it did during the civil war , Russia is preoccupied with its invasion of Ukraine and Iran is facing increasing regional isolation . <p> On the ground , US-aligned Kurdish Syrian Democratic Forces have moved into Deir al-Zour in eastern Syria near the Iraqi border , while the Israeli Air Force repeatedly struck critical border crossing points between Syria and Lebanon . This means that Iran 's ground corridor -- meant to allow the seamless passage of weapons and personnel from Iran and Iraq from the east , into Syria and Lebanon , has crumbled . <p> As Lt. Col. ( res . ) Marco Moreno , a former senior officer in the IDF 's Human Intelligence Unit 504 , told JNS on Dec. 1 : " The Assad regime allowed Syria to be the Philadelphi Corridor the Gaza area bordering Sinai , used to smuggle weapons on steroids . " He added that many of the weapons Hezbollah used against Israel in the recent war came from Syria . <p> The Syrian route was essential for Iran 's weapons pipeline to Hezbollah . But Tehran 's entrenchment in Syria also included setting up weapons production centers on Syrian soil , which nourished not only Hezbollah but also tens of thousands of Shi'ite militiamen stationed in Syria . <p> Iran attempted civilian , religious and cultural entrenchment in Syria , promoting ethnic cleansing of Sunni communities , while aiming to secure a loyal demographic Alawite and Shi'ite foothold . With Assad 's fall , these extensive and costly efforts have come to nothing . <p> This does not mean all is now quiet on the Syrian front . The umbrella Syrian coalition of Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , led by Abu Mohammed al-Jolani and formerly tied to Al Qaeda under the name Jabhat al-Nusra , has emerged as the dominant Sunni insurgent force . The Syrian National Army -- a nationalist rebel coalition backed by Turkey -- is another major player on the ground . <p> Israel will have to monitor their activities closely . Yet , when stacked against the capabilities of the Iranian-led Shi'ite axis , these Sunni rebels represent a far weaker force , with fewer advanced capabilities and a limited focus that remains largely confined to Syrian territory , at least for the near future . <p> According to multiple international media reports , Israel has not waited for strategic weapons in Syria to fall into uncertain hands . On Dec. 5 , Israel 's Army Radio , citing reports from Syria , stated that Israel had conducted airstrikes southeast of Aleppo while the area was still under Assad 's control . <p> By reportedly preemptively neutralizing these strategic threats , Israel ensured that the collapse of the Assad regime would not lead to the proliferation of dangerous weapons . <p> Along the border with Syria , the Israel Defense Forces took measured steps to ensure security . <p> The IDF said on Sunday that " in accordance with the situational assessment following the recent events in Syria , including the entry of armed personnel into the buffer zone , the IDF has deployed forces in the buffer zone and in several other places necessary for its defense , to ensure the safety of the communities of the Golan Heights and the citizens of Israel . We emphasize that the IDF is not interfering with the internal events in Syria . The IDF will continue to operate as long as necessary in order to preserve the buffer zone and defend Israel and its civilians . "
