<h> ' Our father did not die for nothing ' : disbelief turns to jubilation in Damascus <p> The road to Damascus was lined with discarded army uniforms . In a panic , Syrian army soldiers stripped down in the streets in the early hours of Sunday morning , realising their leader , Bashar al-Assad , had abandoned them after 54 years of his family 's rule over Syria . <p> Syrian army tanks , which were supposed to stop the lightning rebel offensive that started just 11 days earlier , stood empty in front of checkpoints with posters of the late leader Hafez al-Assad , his face half torn . Out of habit , a driver stopped and rolled down the window , but there was no one at the checkpoint . <p> " No more checkpoints , no more bribes , " Mohammed remarked , smiling as he sped towards the Syrian capital city . <p> Damascus was still in a state of disbelief , smoke from battles the night before hung over the city like a fog . Windows shook from the occasional explosion , the target and the warring party unknown . Just hours before , it was announced that Assad had fled the capital and that his regime had fallen . <p> The head of Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , Mohammed al-Jolani -- the most prominent of the rebel leaders in Syria -- announced that the former Syrian prime minister Mohammed Gaza al-Jalali would lead a transitional government in the coming months . <p> Residents of Syria were dazed by the day 's events . " I feel as if I am in a dream , I have n't slept and I ca n't absorb what 's happened , " said Fatimeh , a Syrian originally from Idlib , as she approached Damascus . " I am from Idlib , " she said once more . For years she would n't dare say where she was from when she was in Damascus , for fear that any affiliation with the province held by Islamist rebels would provoke retaliation . <p> Al-Jolani , who this week dropped his nom de guerre in favour of his birth name -- Ahmed al-Shaara -- was also chasing after rebel forces . It was fighters from the southern province of Deraa , not HTS , who reached the gates of Damascus . HTS fighters were preoccupied with securing Homs , Assad 's last lifeline to his coastal strongholds of Tartus and Latakia . <p> The rebel leader arrived at the landmark Umayyad mosque in the old city of Damascus in his first public appearance on Sunday after the fall of the Assad government . Seeing the rebel leader in the mosque , located in the former heartland of the government , would have been unthinkable just a few days earlier . To Syrians , the message was clear : Assad was gone , and rebels were in control . <p> With the president ousted , the kingdom of silence had suddenly come alive . Hundreds of people gathered in Umayyad Square , where the ground was littered with bullet casings -- not from fighting , but from celebratory shooting . Fighters passed families AK-47s , which they fired into the air with glee , the tracer rounds ' red glow fading in the distance . <p> Jolani had forbidden the firing of guns into the air , for fear a stray bullet could hurt someone -- but his instruction was quickly forgotten amid the jubilation . " The tears were falling by themselves , my father , my brothers , so many people were killed , " a woman said in the square , declining to give her name . Her daughter chimed in : " Now we know our father did not die for nothing . " <p> Amid the celebration , a woman rolled down her window to ask a passerby , was anyone from Sednaya here ? The prison , about 20km from the capital city , was perhaps the most notorious of all of the Syrian government 's detention centres . Rebels had opened its doors on Sunday morning and thousands of prisoners left all at once , each heading in a different direction . <p> Driving through Damascus , Mohammad Abu al-Zeid , a commander from the rebel group Operations Room to Liberate Damascus , along with two other fighters from southern Syria , pointed out the embassies that lined the swanky Mezzah district in Damascus , most of them now empty but undamaged . <p> " We are not touching any of the public institutions -- those are for the new state to come , " Abu al-Zeid said . <p> Abu al-Zeid had started his day by storming the headquarters of Syrian state television . He led a squadron of fighters who commandeered the broadcast -- reading from a piece of paper as he declared the end of the Assad regime . <p> Now , he was occupied with navigating the city he had just helped capture . He kept getting lost , making U-turns and squinting at Google maps . It was the first time he had been in the capital city in years . <p> Not even the rebels seemed to anticipate having taken Damascus so quickly -- they travelled around the capital city seemingly in a daze . Their guns , which they had been firing just hours before , now sat in the boot of the car untouched . <p> " We did n't want to have to fight for 13 years , we should n't have had to . We wanted change , not to have to bring down a regime , " said Wassim al-Khatib , one of the fighters under Zeid 's command , as he looked over the lines of broken military equipment which littered the streets of Damascus . <h> Latest stories <p> Half a century of rule by the Assad family in Syria crumbled with astonishing speed after insurgents burst out of a rebel-held enclave and converged on the capital , Damascus , taking city after city in a matter of days . Opposition forces swept across the country and entered Damascus with little or no resistance as the Syrian army melted away . President Bashar Assad , Syria 's ruler for 24 years -- succeeding his father , Hafez Assad -- fled the country . <p> Several airstrikes hit the Syrian capital on Sunday , just hours after the Syrian opposition took control of Damascus . A powerful airstrike hit the Kafar Sousah neighbourhood where the Bashar Assad regime 's security and customs headquarters were based . <p> Israeli army tanks and armoured vehicles crossed the border fence , marking the so-called Alpha line and entering the buffer zone which separates the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights from Syria on Sunday night . <p> Syrian insurgents toppled President Bashar al-Assad 's on Sunday after a stunning , two-week offensive that saw major cities slip from the regime 's fingers one by one , until rebel forces captured the capital Damascus almost without a fight . More than 50 years of Assad family rule in Syria collapsed with astonishing speed after insurgents burst out of a rebel-held enclave in the country 's north , capturing Aleppo and a string of other cities in a matter of days , before converging on Damascus . Opposi <p> Donald Trump on Sunday pushed Russian leader Vladimir Putin to act to reach an immediate ceasefire with Ukraine , describing it as part of his active efforts as president-elect to end the war despite being weeks from taking office . " Zelenskyy and Ukraine would like to make a deal and stop the madness , " Trump wrote on social media , referring to Ukraine 's president , Volodymyr Zelenskyy . In a television interview that aired Sunday , Trump also said he would be open to reducing military aid to Ukraine and pulling the United States out of NATO . <p> Not when it comes to events currently under way in Syria , a country straddling the fault lines of the Middle East . The collapse of the Assad regime will be the most significant event yet in the upheaval that 's followed the 7 October attacks by Hamas in Israel last year . It will be the end of a brutal reign of terror that has lasted since the Assad family , under patriarch Hafez Assad , seized power in the early 1970s . <p> Syria 's iron-fisted leader Bashar al-Assad is the second generation of an autocratic family dynasty that held power for more than five decades and his disappearance amid a lighting rebel advance cap an astonishing reordering of power in a strategically vital Middle Eastern nation . <p> ( Bloomberg ) -- With Syrian rebels edging ever-closer to the capital , President Bashar Al-Assad is making a last-ditch attempt to remain in power , including indirect diplomatic overtures to the US and President-elect Donald Trump , according to people with direct knowledge of the situation.Most Read from BloombergA Chicago Skyscraper Cements the Legacy of a Visionary Postmodern ArchitectNYC 's Run-Down Bus Terminal Gets Approval for $10 Billion RevampKansas City Looks Back on its Long , Costly Ride <p> President-elect Donald Trump called for former Wyoming Rep. Liz Cheney and other members of the committee investigating the January 6th riots on Capitol Hill to be jailed in his first sit-down interview since winning the election . Trump appeared to shock NBC journalist Kristen Welker with his remarks . The Meet the Press moderator sharply raised her eyebrows in disbelief and tried to clarify what he meant by the suggestion . Commenting on whether the House Select Committee on the January 6 Attack
