<p> It was not a coincidence that the Syrian group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) began its push for the city of Aleppo on the same day that Israel and Hezbollah agreed a ceasefire to end the fighting in Lebanon . The domino effect set in motion by Hamas on 7 October 2023 is still rippling through the Middle East , this weekend resulting in the spectacular downfall of Syria 's president , Bashar al-Assad . <p> A country that suffered under a Ba'athist regime for 60 years , as well as 14 years of civil war , is celebrating hard-won freedoms as thousands of disappeared people pour out of Assad 's infamous prisons . What comes next in Syria , which still has to grapple with deep internal and sectarian problems , is uncertain . In Iran , though , the picture is clearer : Ayatollah Ali Khamenei can no longer deny that Tehran 's political and military " axis of resistance " has collapsed . <p> Hezbollah , the Shia Lebanese movement long backed by Iran in their shared fight against Israel , miscalculated in coming to Hamas 's aid in the war in Gaza by opening a front on the UN-demarcated blue line that separates the Lebanese from their Israeli neighbours . <p> After almost a year of tit-for-tat cross-border attacks that displaced hundreds of thousands of people from their homes , Israel stepped up its campaign in September . It managed to wipe out much of Hezbollah 's command structure in airstrikes , including its longtime secretary general , Hassan Nasrallah , and drove the group 's fighters away from the demarcation zone in a ground offensive . <p> Two months later , Tehran told Hezbollah it could not afford to take more losses and the group came limping to the negotiation table , agreeing to a ceasefire on terms favourable to Israel . <p> Iran has long needed Hezbollah in neighbouring Syria , too , where the Lebanese group , together with Russian forces , were instrumental in the Assad regime 's survival when it was on the brink of falling to assorted rebel forces in 2015 . But bled dry by the wars with Israel and Ukraine , neither side was willing or able to come to Damascus 's aid this time . <p> Syrian rebels broadcast first news bulletin on state television -- video <p> The Islamist HTS , along with an umbrella of Turkish-backed militias known as the Syrian National Army , sensed a moment of opportunity , gambling that Assad 's allies were weakened and disorganised . They moved on Aleppo , reportedly to stymie a planned regime offensive on their strongholds in north-west Syria , and found that Damascus 's corrupt and demoralised army was caught unawares and offered little resistance . <p> After 14 years of bloodshed that triggered the worst refugee crisis since the second world war , created Islamic State and stoked the flames of populist politics around the world , scenes from around Syria this weekend once again resemble the hopeful early days of the Arab spring protests . <p> There are major geopolitical repercussions for the region and the rest of the world . The crimes committed in the regime 's prisons , now exposed to the light of day , will require robust and internationally coordinated efforts to bring Assad and his lackeys to justice . <p> Assad 's fall effectively severs the weapons , materiel and personnel route from Tehran to Hezbollah , particularly if Syrian Kurdish forces , which have expanded their control of the desert border between Syria and Iraq , remain in position with US backing . Hezbollah , already isolated , will be further weakened , making it more vulnerable to Israeli attack or infiltration . <p> Iran will be forced to double down on its network of proxies in Iraq and its links to the Houthi militia in Yemen , but crucially it no longer has a direct presence or influence on Israel 's borders . It may instead focus on its nuclear programme , but the re-election of Donald Trump -- who orchestrated a " maximum pressure " policy towards Tehran during his first term -- means Khamenei will have to proceed with caution . <p> In the short term , Israel should be delighted with events in Syria , coming as they do on the back of victories over other elements of the axis of resistance -- the decimation of Hezbollah and the near eradication of Hamas in the Gaza Strip -- although they are accompanied by new challenges . <p> The Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) entered the Syrian-controlled part of the Golan Heights on Saturday for the first time since 1974 to help repel an assault by rebel forces on a UN outpost near the Druze village of Khader , a few hundred metres from Israeli-occupied territory . On Sunday the IDF said two extra brigades had been deployed and troops sent into the buffer zone to keep Islamist rebel groups and potential refugee flows away . <p> Israel is also worried about where the Syrian regime 's heavy weaponry and likely reserves of chemical weapons will end up , as well as potential renewed Iranian efforts to smuggle arms and materiel into the occupied West Bank through Jordan . <p> At this point it is hard to imagine the HTS leader , Abu Mohammed al-Jolani , sitting down to sign a peace deal between Syria and Israel that finally settles the fate of the Golan Heights . But as the past 14 months have proven , nothing in the Middle East is off the table any more .
