<h> Radio 4 comedy is back for 82nd series - time for some new jokes ? <p> Monday lunchtime and Naga Munchetty was catching up with what 's been happening in Syria on 5 Live . " Barry Marston , who leads the Jihadist Media Team at BBC Monitoring , is with me in the studio , " she told her listeners , before adding , " I did n't know we had a Jihadist media team . " <p> Me neither . But the BBC does and for the next 15 minutes Marston gave an informed and fascinating account of what has been going on in Syria and the region and what might happen next in the light of what he and his team have been observing . <p> As a listener with no real knowledge of the subject it seems to me the BBC has been doing a good job in covering this fast-moving story . I 've seen Americans on social media complaining that their own news coverage has been non-existent in comparison . Of course others have been comparing the BBC 's coverage of Syria with that of the conflict in Gaza and found it very wanting in the case of the latter . <p> In any case the BBC 's reach is on display in moments like this . Tuning into Times Radio on Tuesday morning Stig Abell and Aasmah Mir were talking to former Tory leader William Hague about the situation - he had just written a column in the Times on the subject - and framing that conversation largely through a British lens . It 's unfair to judge the station 's coverage on the back of this isolated moment but it did feel a little insular in comparison . <p> Closer to home , Phoebe McIndoe concluded County Lines , her series on the grooming of children to commit crime , on Radio 4 on Monday morning . It 's been an at times harrowing listen , but this last episode saw McIndoe look for answers to the problem . Said answers included giving kids more alternatives to criminal activity and even legalising drugs to undercut the economics of OCGs ( Organised Crime Groups ) . The latter was an idea promoted here by a former police officer , by the way . <p> McIndoe , whose own brother became involved in county lines drug dealing , offered another answer , love . Her brother found a way out of crime via the devotion of his parents and a girlfriend " who held a mirror up to him , " McIndoe said . " Now for the first time he has a job and the beginnings of a stable life . " <p> Naga Munchetty ( Image : free ) Not everyone will have that option , unfortunately . But this has been a fascinating series , albeit depressing and even frightening when you stand back and look at the picture it paints of childhood in some parts of the UK at the moment . <p> This is all very heavy , is n't it ? Time for some comedy ? A new series - series 82 if you 're keeping score - of I 'm Sorry I Have n't A Clue started on Radio 4 on Monday evening in the 6.30pm slot . Well , the Radio Times says it 's a new series but some of the jokes seemed to have more than one layer of dust on them . <p> Rather like Just a Minute , I 'm Sorry ... is one of those unsinkable Radio 4 programmes that may change personnel but remains much the same as when it started back in 1972 . I guess that 's the appeal . <p> Maybe there are fewer double entendres flying around these days . Frankly it 's more like single entendres , particularly from Tony Hawks . But Caroline Quentin did nail singing the lyrics of I am a Cider Drinker by the Wurzels to the tune of A Whiter Shade of Pale , so the world is n't totally lost . <p> Here 's a surprise . Who do you think is the favourite band of The Herald Magazine 's cover star Andrew Ridgeley ? Queen ? Roxy Music ? Wham ! even ? None of the above , he told Radio 2 's Vernon Kaye this week on Tracks of My Years " XTC are about my favourite band , " he revealed on Friday before choosing to play a pretty deep cut , The Disappointed , from the 1992 album Nonsuch . You think you know someone ... <p> Finally , back to Monday morning . The Irish singer Lisa O'Neill was the final guest on Woman 's Hour on Radio 4 . Signing off , she offered a motto for this near festive moment in the calendar . <p> " Empathy as opposed to apathy , I suppose , is the flag I 'm flying at the moment . " That seems a good flag to fly , at any time of year . <p> Listen Out For <p> Book at Bedtime , Radio 4 , Monday to Friday , 10.45pm Radio 4 is offering us a series of uncanny stories from the US writer Shirley Jackson , author of The Haunting of Hill House , read by Sara Kestelman . Is it me or has it suddenly got cold in here ? <h> Why are you making commenting on The Herald only available to subscribers ? <p> It should have been a safe space for informed debate , somewhere for readers to discuss issues around the biggest stories of the day , but all too often the below the line comments on most websites have become bogged down by off-topic discussions and abuse . <p> heraldscotland.com is tackling this problem by allowing only subscribers to comment . <p> We are doing this to improve the experience for our loyal readers and we believe it will reduce the ability of trolls and troublemakers , who occasionally find their way onto our site , to abuse our journalists and readers . We also hope it will help the comments section fulfil its promise as a part of Scotland 's conversation with itself . <p> We are lucky at The Herald . We are read by an informed , educated readership who can add their knowledge and insights to our stories . <p> That is invaluable . <p> We are making the subscriber-only change to support our valued readers , who tell us they do n't want the site cluttered up with irrelevant comments , untruths and abuse . <p> In the past , the journalist 's job was to collect and distribute information to the audience . Technology means that readers can shape a discussion . We look forward to hearing from you on heraldscotland.com <h> Comments &amp; Moderation <p> Readers ' comments : You are personally liable for the content of any comments you upload to this website , so please act responsibly . We do not pre-moderate or monitor readers ' comments appearing on our websites , but we do post-moderate in response to complaints we receive or otherwise when a potential problem comes to our attention . You can make a complaint by using the ' report this post ' link . We may then apply our discretion under the user terms to amend or delete comments . <p> Post moderation is undertaken full-time 9am-6pm on weekdays , and on a part-time basis outwith those hours . <h> follow us <p> This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation 's Editors ' Code of Practice . If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then please contact the editor here . If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact IPSO here
