<p> The Pope has unveiled a Palestinian nativity scene gifted to the Vatican , featuring a representation of the baby Jesus in a keffiyeh-clad manger . <p> Pope Frances opened the annual nativity scene at the Vatican on Saturday , featuring the traditional Palestinian national scarf draped on Jesus 's cradle . <p> Speaking at the event , a wheelchair-bound Francis called on believers to " remember the brothers and sisters , who , right there in Bethlehem and in other parts of the world , are suffering from the tragedy of war , " <p> " Enough with wars , enough of violence ! " he said before condemning the arms industry " that thrives on war and death . " <p> Titled " Nativity of Bethlehem 2024 " , the keffiyeh-clad scene was designed by Palestinian artist pair Johny Andonia and Faten Nastas Mitwasi . Made of olive wood and iron , it will be displayed in the Paul VI Hall and is not the main nativity scene in St Peter 's Square . <p> Two Palestinian children also presented Francis with a " Star of Bethlehem " plaque , reading " Glory to God in the highest , and on earth peace , goodwill toward men , " in Arabic and Latin . <p> The plaque and the scene were organised by the Higher Presidential Committee for Church Affairs in Palestine , an organ of the PLO , and the Palestinian embassy to the Vatican , along with several institutions in Bethlehem . <p> Pope Francis prays before the Palestinian " Nativity of Bethlehem 2024 " during its inauguration ( Photo : Getty Images ) <p> PLO executive committee member Ramzi Khouri joined the pope at the inauguration of the scene and expressed " warm greetings " from Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas . <p> Khouri shared " deep gratitude for the pope 's unwavering support for the Palestinian cause and his tireless efforts to end the war on Gaza and promote justice , " according to a PLO press release . <p> The nativity scene builds on the trope that Jesus - born in Judea to a Jewish mother - was a Palestinian . In 2014 , President Abbas attracted controversy for calling Jesus a " Palestinian messenger " and suggested Israel was to blame for the exodus of Christians from the Holy Land . <p> The unveiling of the nativity scene comes after the pope made a series of interventions about the ongoing war in Gaza . In November , excerpts from a book revealed that he called for an investigation into whether Israel 's strikes on the strip constitute genocide . <p> In " Hope never disappoints . Pilgrims towards a better world " , based on interviews with the pope , Francis noted , " According to some experts , what is happening in Gaza has the characteristics of a genocide , " <p> " It should be carefully investigated to determine whether it fits into the technical definition formulated by jurists and international bodies , " the pontiff added . <p> The Palestinian Community of Rome said in response to the comments , " We have always expressed gratitude to His Holiness for his support of human rights , justice , and Palestinian self-determination . Pope Francis has consistently voiced concern over Palestinian suffering and called for respect for international law . " <p> Francis has met with Israeli family members of those taken hostage by Hamas and has called for their release . <p> However , in a letter to Middle Eastern Catholics on the first anniversary of the attack , the pontiff never mentioned Hamas nor did he make explicit reference to the hostages . The letter also quoted passages from the Gospel of John that have historically been used to fuel religious antisemitism.
