<h> Fireworks ring hollow after a year of conflict <p> Late Monday night , walking home from Westminster to my London flat by the Thames , I heard fireworks : the crack , bang and echo reverberating around City streets . I saw the glow in the sky above the river . So another festive season begins , new salvoes of rockets above us . It will carry on like this through Christmas to New Year 's Eve . I always loved fireworks but this year something is different , something wrong in the sight and sound . The thrill has gone from gunpowder , rockets , explosions and streaks of fire in the heavens . We 've seen the fireworks over Gaza . We 've seen the rockets heading for northern Israel . We 've heard the explosions in Beirut . Please God , fewer fireworks now , not more . <h> Wallace is not Assad <p> This seems to have been the year of the tumbrils . Almost every week some new suspect is loaded on to the wagon and carted off to the media guillotine , as the jeering mob crowds the wheels and throws rotten fruit . On the basis that life is short and therefore I 've never watched MasterChef , Bake Off or Strictly , and do n't intend to , I had n't the least idea who Gregg Wallace is before he hit newspaper headlines and the lead stories on BBC news broadcasts . Why ? Day after day we have been subjected to this stupid , grubby story about some stupid , grubby behaviour and it took the total collapse of the murderous Syrian government to drive it away . Bashar al-Assad and Mr Wallace do both sound quite unpleasant but I feel that questions of scale should be taken into consideration . <h> War on Welby <p> Last month it was the Archbishop of Canterbury to the guillotine . Two weeks ago in this Notebook I suggested that Justin Welby ( of whom I am hardly a fan ) should not have resigned . I have never had a more universally hostile response from Times readers . No , readers , I did n't " fail to read the room " . The room was wrong and I am unrepentant . Of course , once the guillotine comes down its victim is toast , finished , over , and ( after our minor sneerfest at an infelicitous speech in the House of Lords ) our attention wanders away from Welby in search of new tumbrils . <p> So do n't expect this story to get any attention , but take a look at a recent Church Times . The former Bishop of Oxford , Richard Harries , has drawn the headline to my attention : " Makin was wrong , retired senior police officers say -- the Church did properly refer Smyth abuse to the police in 2013 , they say . " <p> he three officers ( said to have extensive safeguarding experience ) do n't want to be named -- or it would be the tumbrils for them , too -- but they are unanimous . The Makin report that forced Welby to go stated that , contrary to Welby 's claim , " there was never a formal referral to Cambridgeshire police " and that the archbishop should have seen to it that there was . The officers say there is no such thing as a " formal referral " : you refer or you do n't . The church did . The police decided to take no action . <h> Advertisement <p> In my view Welby should not have let it rest there , even if this should have been a matter for his subordinates . Nobody should ever rely on the judgment of the police and Welby was feeble . He was not , however , complicit . But the bar has now been lowered so far that we 'd better prepare the tumbrils for future deacons , vicars , bishops , archbishops , TV chefs , chief constables , pop stars , newscasters , MPs , bankers ... anyone to feed our lip-smacking appetite for what 's really displacement activity in a nation chained to its sofas and sinking gently into oblivion . Rotten tomatoes at the ready ! Oh what a lovely war . <h> I 'm branching out <p> From the ridiculous to my sublime new tree-ties . Screwfix has faced Storm Darragh and stayed standing . Or rather , my five young Dutch elm disease-resistant Wingham elms have stayed standing . We planted them just before the storm and needed to tie each ( about six feet high ) to their supporting stakes . Wire or cord cuts into bark , so normal practice has been to use heavy rubber straps that cost ? 2- ? 5 each . Each ! Screwfix sells a 5m roll of 50mm-wide one-sided Velcro strapping for ? 6.49 . We strapped up the elms loosely . Blow Darragh , blow -- and Darragh did . I walked into the field on Monday fearing the worst . Every tie intact , every elm erect . Hey Screwfix , gizza job as an influencer !
