<p> The events now unfolding in Syria could bring many things : the beginning of the end of three , maybe four wars , the unravelling of the so-called axis of evil -- or the dawn of a new dark age which will propel millions more refugees to Europe . We may see all of these . The direction of travel , I believe , will be apparent within days . <p> The fate of President Assad was always going to be closely linked to the fates of the mullahs in Iran and of Putin in the Kremlin . The Iranian regime had created proxies across the Middle East and beyond to bolster their ramshackle regime in an attempt to prevent the future . The Shi'ite mullahs funded and mentored Hamas , a distinctly radical Sunni organisation , finding common ground in their hatred for Israel and the West . They supplied and mentored the Houthi rebels in Yemen as well as the radical militias in Iraq . But the jewel in their crown of subversion was always Hezbollah : a state within a state in Lebanon . The staggering client state of Syria was a key ally . <p> This morning the Assad regime has fallen . The fate of Assad himself is unknown but speculation is that his aircraft fell victim to a Russian made missile system operated by his enemies . The Russians are desperately evacuating their warm-water naval base at Tartus -- all the Russian ships there actually put to sea days ago . The nearby Russian airbase is being evacuated too . <p> This is a disaster for Putin , given that he now has no warm water naval access . Tartus is now or soon will be surrounded by enemies and the Bosporus is closed to Russian warships due to the ongoing Ukraine war . Putin 's illegal Ukraine invasion has closed off access to the Mediterranean Sea from the Black Sea bases of Odesa and Sevastopol -- which he no longer controls -- and Novorossiysk . Russian warships can now reach the Mediterranean only by departing from the Arctic or Baltic on a long trip around Europe via Gibraltar . The fledgling Russian base in Libya is now seriously compromised . <p> Government soldiers and allies are taken into custody by rebel fighters on the road between Homs and Damascus in Syria on Sunday Dec 8 2024 Credit : Ghaith Alsayed/AP <p> The mullahs in Tehran will be reeling and on high alert against any demonstrations at home with their regional empire smashed . In fairness the chaos is all their own doing . Their crazy gamble to stymie the looming Abraham accords -- brokered by Donald Trump in his last term between Israel and the moderate Arab kingdoms -- using the proxy attack led by Hamas on the 7th of October last year has led to the destruction of Hamas as a military force . It has also led to the annihilation of the leadership of their most important regional asset , Hezbollah , and the degradation of their military power such that they were unable to bolster the regime in Syria . Within Syria the Iranian-officered auxiliary military forces -- the Pakistani Liwa Zainebiyoun and the Afghan Hazara Shi'ite Fatemeyoun -- will be fugitives from the rebels now . The Iranian sponsored popular militias in next-door Iraq will be impotent in the face of sensible moves by the government of Iraq to maintain stability internally by sealing its borders . <p> So who are the winners ? Turkey 's President Erdogan has been presented with both risks and opportunities . No friend of Assad , his ambition to renew the reach of the Ottoman Empire moves a step forward . But so do the ambitions of the Kurdish factions to his south . Back in 2014 I travelled to Iraq to advise the Kurdish regional government in the face of the rise of Isis . At that time , I saw the opportunity for an alliance of Kurdish factions in Iraq , Iran and Syria to create a Kurdish sphere of control from the mountains of Iran to the Mediterranean Sea -- potentially with a port , Tartus , and an independent outlet for their oil wealth . That would have presented both the West and Israel with a reliable ally in the region . Today that is achievable but hampered , potentially fatally , by infighting and personal hubris amongst the various Kurdish leaders . <p> Israel has made it clear it would not wish to intervene in Syria but the contrast between a benign regime in Syria at best and a radical Islamic regime at worst must be food for thought . Lebanon will face more turmoil . The potential is there for it to rid itself of the cancer of Hezbollah but also the real risk of a new civil war with Sunni and Shia groups set against each other . <p> The fluidity of the situation is such that the risks and the opportunities presented are historic . I fear the weakness of the fading Biden administration means that the USA will be unlikely to scoop up the potential winnings , but with a Trump administration only weeks away the opportunities loom large . <p> Trump could use the Syria situation to further his interests regionally as well as broker a peace in Ukraine . He will be wargaming the fall of the regime in Iran as well as the consequences of such a development . This could be the time to bolster the moderates in Iraq to forge a new stable and influential partner . Within Iraq , I see statesmanlike individuals such as the National Security advisor , Dr Saifaldin Al Darraji , with the quick wits and mental agility to further Iraqi national interests and regional influence . <p> What is certain is that the war in Syria is in its last mile , and so are the wars in Gaza and Lebanon . Both sides may soon seek a ceasefire in Ukraine . The future of the Houthi rebels in Yemen now also looks dubious with regime change in Tehran a possibility . <p> The coming weeks will be a crucial era that historians of the future will study with interest . We are living through it . <p> Colonel Tim Collins is a former British Army officer who served with the SAS and as commander of the Royal Irish during the invasion of Iraq in 2003 , when his before-battle speech to his soldiers made headlines around the world
