<p> Twenty-four years ago , Israel almost managed to achieve through diplomacy what it had repeatedly failed to achieve over decades on the battlefield : the end of Palestinian armed resistance . But the Camp David peace talks in the summer of 2000 , overseen by US president Bill Clinton , broke down , never to be fully revived . <p> While the Israelis and Palestinians blamed one another for refusing to budge enough to get a deal done , the years that followed saw the rapid rise of a military alternative , with Hamas in Gaza , Hezbollah in Lebanon , Shia militias in Iraq and eventually the Houthis in Yemen exponentially increasing their power and projection . <p> Palestinians walk on a dirt road lined with rubble from buildings destroyed in Israeli strikes in the Shujaiya neighbourhood of Gaza City on 7 October , 2024 ( Photo : Omar al-Qattaa/AFP ) <p> All of these groups committed to a strategy of asymmetric warfare against Israel -- and secondarily the US -- as the only viable option for Palestinians and the wider region . Led by Iran as the " Axis of Resistance " , they also all relied to a great extent on Tehran for financing and access to military hardware and technology . <p> In fact , it is unlikely that any of them could have built up their vital hard power without such support , especially Hamas which perhaps relied the most on smuggled Iranian weaponry for its pre-7 October build-up . " If not for Iran 's support for the resistance , " Yahya Sinwar , the now deceased leader of Hamas , said in 2019 , " we would not have obtained these capabilities . Our Arab nation has deserted us in our difficult moments , while Iran has supported us with weapons , equipment and expertise . " <p> The axis is now clearly reeling ( although not destroyed ) . Hamas has been shredded by Israel as a coherent fighting force in Gaza and militancy in the occupied West Bank has been effectively suppressed by enduring cooperation between the Israel Defence Forces and the Palestinian Authority , despite mounting settler violence and the ever expanding occupation inflicted by Israel on Palestinians . <p> Members of armed groups and civilians gather at the Umayyad Mosque in Damascus after sixty-one years of Baath Party rule in Syria collapsed ( Photo : Abdulkerim Muhammed/Anadolu via Getty Images ) <p> Hezbollah also sustained deep blows , especially over the past three months , to its leadership and military infrastructure . Perhaps most significantly for the long term , the collapse of Bashar al-Assad 's Syria this weekend -- long a non-fighting member of the axis -- means that Hezbollah 's supply lines into Lebanon , and therefore its future as a formidable fighting force , are in grave danger . In fact , Hezbollah could soon be landlocked as it never was before , with Israeli forces from the south delivering strikes in Lebanon on an almost daily basis despite the ceasefire and hostile Syrian forces that Hezbollah fought for 12 years in Syria taking up positions all along the Lebanese-Syrian border . Shia militias in Iraq , too , reportedly refused to come to Assad 's aid as they had before , effectively ensuring that the vital supply routes between Iran and Lebanon will remain severely compromised , if not severed soon enough . <h> Read Next <p> Walled off in Gaza and cut off in Lebanon , Palestinian armed groups like Hamas or Hezbollah both seem to have only one last hope to regenerate themselves as credible fighting forces able to strategically face-off with Israel : a significantly increased commitment and intervention by Iran . Given the new geographic , political and military challenges , such support would have to go well beyond what Iran offered before 7 October . <p> Iranian leaders thus find themselves in a sharp bind . They know that if they choose the expensive , enormously difficult task of rearming their remaining allies , Israel and the new Trump administration will very likely directly escalate the fight , knocking out energy infrastructure , leadership and nuclear facilities . Even though there are some differences within Trump world over attacking Iran , Trump himself in recent days and over the past several months has signaled as much should his entreaties for a deal be rebuffed . <p> Can Trump offer a reasonable deal to Tehran that minimises the humiliation of an Iranian step down from both its regional alliances and nuclear programme , one which therefore allows the different factions to accept what would effectively amount to a cessation of hostilities with its two most bitter enemies ? Even if he could manage such a heavy lift with deft diplomacy and restraint -- a tall order for a president not known for either quality -- Israeli leaders appear further emboldened by their recent string of victories and are unlikely to step back from maximalist demands on their last remaining state enemy . In the space of only a few weeks , key figures in Israel have repeatedly signalled that they intend to create more " facts on the ground " , including widening the long-standing occupation of Syrian lands in and around the Golan Heights , accelerating the effective annexation of the West Bank and militarily occupying large parts of Gaza for the foreseeable future . <p> With the substantial diminishment of Iran and its allies in the region , Israel is now tantalisingly close to the best chance it has had since 2000 for realising the end of Palestinian armed resistance , this time by definitively severing " the head of the octopus . " <p> Given the heavy influence of hard -- line supporters of Israel in Trump 's inner circle , maximalist demands on Iran that go well beyond limitations on its nuclear programme have a very good chance of carrying the day when the new American president formulates his offer to Tehran . Of course , there will be concerns over posing submission or war to Iran with all of the growing uncertainty and instability in the Middle East . <p> The potential for a revived Isis in liberated Syria , open war between Turkey and the Kurds as well as ongoing hostilities between what remains of the Resistance Axis and Israel are all a dangerous enough backdrop without adding a massive new state vs state conflict . <p> However , given the " Liquid Moment , " as Trump 's son-in-law Jared Kushner put it in late September , where formerly unreachable goals are now supposedly attainable , it does n't seem as though either the Trump team or Israeli leaders will give these concerns much pause .
