<p> At Reach and across our entities we and our partners use information collected through cookies and other identifiers from your device to improve experience on our site , analyse how it is used and to show personalised advertising . You can opt out of the sale or sharing of your data , at any time clicking the " Do Not Sell or Share my Data " button at the bottom of the webpage . Please note that your preferences are browser specific . Use of our website and any of our services represents your acceptance of the use of cookies and consent to the practices described in our Privacy Notice and Cookie Notice . <h> Change to over 140,000 people 's pensions in Merseyside <p> Guidance said councillors could n't make political decisions when it came to pensions investments ( Image : Gareth Fuller/PA Wire ) <p> Merseyside Pension Fund will not hold investments in companies that manufacture weapons forbidden by international treaties signed by the UK government . This is following a decision by Wirral Council 's pensions committee which oversees the fund and its over 140,000 members . <p> A report published before the Pensions committee said they had received 161 letters about the issue with 119 being from local taxpayers and 42 from pension fund members . The report also said not all of the companies raised by the campaign group were in the aerospace and defence sector . <p> ? <p> Redington , a consultant who explored the issue for the local authority , produced a report which said that for some companies , civil aviation was their main focus while some produced parts for weapons such as armour , engines or fuselage . Other businesses in the sector are also based in Wirral providing employment and paying Business Rates . <p> The Local Government Pension Scheme advisory board have offered guidance to councils overseeing pension funds , particularly in relation to Israel and Gaza . They said it was not " not appropriate for investment decisions to be driven directly by the political views " of politicians local or national in overseeing a fund . <p> Nigel Giffin KC also said it was incorrect to suggest " it would be unlawful for administering authorities to invest , or continue to invest , LGPS funds in undertakings engaged in certain activities with a bearing upon Israel 's conduct in and in relation to Gaza or the other Palestinian territories . " However officers said they would provide a further report on any investments that may be linked to a number of suspended licences to Israel linked to the war . <p> ? <p> During the meeting , councillors unanimously approved the recommendations put forward by officers . However a change calling for a report on the steps required and the implications of divesting from companies supplying arms to Israel was voted down . <p> Officers said one American company Textron would have be excluded as a result of the changes approved but more recent advice suggested that " it no longer produces controversial weapons . " However Director of Pensions Peter Wallach said he 's not checked that this new information was correct yet . <p> Councillor Tony Cox said legal advice had to be followed and argued 42 letters from members out of 140,000 was a small number given public awareness of the issues , adding : " We have got to be realistic here . That suggests that the vast overwhelming majority believe that this is n't something that is top of their agenda at this point in time . " <p> Article continues below <p> However Councillor Ann Ainsworth raised concerns about the suggestion 75% of scheme members would need to support any change that could significantly affect the pension fund , arguing this threshold was too high . Officers was based on legal advice to avoid challenges in court . <p> Cllr Chris Carubia said the issue was not simple and disinvesting from companies was complex with many issues outside of Israel and Palestine . He said : " To just say disinvest in that company . It 's not that simple . That company may invest in a single chip that might be 0.01% of that company 's whole remit . " <p> However Cllr Pat Cleary said the recommendation was a good step forward but did n't address the concerns raised by members of the public attending the meetings . He said : " It 's very easy to come up with not to do something , " adding : " Until we get to grips with this and until we address the issues they are concerned about then we 're going to go around in circles for a long time . "
