<p> It came as Israeli fighter jets began a bombardment of weapons sites in Damascus , as the Jewish state took preventive measures to quash weapons leftover from the Assad regime getting into the hands of extremists . <p> The alleged Israeli airstrikes hit the Mazzeh district of Damascus on Sunday , according to one Lebanese and one Syrian security source speaking to Reuters . Additionally , jets believed to be Israeli bombed the Khalkhala air base in southern Syria that was evacuated by the Syrian army overnight . <p> According to Reuters , at least six strikes hit the main air base in the north of the city of Suwayda that has a large stockpile of rockets and missiles left by Syrian troops . <p> They caused extensive damage to the main customs headquarters and buildings adjoining the military intelligence offices within the security complex , which is located in the Kafr Sousa district of Damascus . <p> The research facility was also damaged , the sources said , speaking to Reuters on condition of anonymity . <p> One of the sources said the strikes had hit infrastructure used to store sensitive military data , equipment and guided missiles parts . <p> Israel has watched the rapid overthrow of Assad 's government with a mixture of hope and concern as officials weigh the consequences of one of the most significant strategic shifts in the Middle East in years . <p> Assad was supported during the country 's long civil war by Iran and Russia . <p> Israeli officials have expressed concern that chemical weapons and other prohibited munitions and missiles that Syria had kept for decades could now fall into the hands of the Islamist-led rebels who stormed into Damascus on Sunday . <p> Growing up in Saudi Arabia until the age of seven , he then moved to Damascus where his grandfather had been displaced following the 1967 Six-Day War in which Israel took control of the Golan Heights . <p> He says he was radicalised by the second intifada in 2000 , one of the most bloody times of the Israel-Palestine conflict . <p> In 2021 , he told PBS Frontline : " I was 17 or 18 years old at the time , and I started thinking about how I could fulfil my duties , defending a people who are oppressed by occupiers and invaders . " <p> On Sunday , Ehud Yaari , an Israeli Lafer international fellow of the Washington Institute said : " The concerns about chemical weapons and heavy missiles falling into the hands of the rebels are certainly justified , but let us remember that there is a huge distance between seizing chemical materials and the ability and , of course , the desire to use them . " <p> The Israeli military did not comment on the reported strikes when approached by The Telegraph . <p> " We have to take action against possible threats , " Mr Netanyahu said Sunday . " One of them is the collapse of the Separation of Forces Agreement from 1974 between Israel and Syria . <p> " This agreement held for 50 years . Last night , it collapsed , " he added , after militia fighters entered the 50 mile long buffer zone and tried to take over a UN outpost and the Syrian army abandoned its position . <p> " We gave the Israeli army the order to take over these positions to ensure that no hostile force embeds itself right next to the border of Israel . This is a temporary defensive position until a suitable arrangement is found , " Mr Netanyahu said . <p> " Ground troops are engaged in combat on four fronts : against terrorism in Judea and Samaria , in Gaza , in Lebanon , and last night we deployed troops into Syrian territory , " he said on Sunday . <p> " We have excellent ground troops working together , infantry , armour , engineering , and artillery , and they are co-operating with other branches of the IDF : air , sea , and intelligence , " Mr Halevi said as the country braces for any possible onslaught of Islamic extremists on its Syrian border . <p> Israel captured the Golan in the 1967 Mideast war and later annexed it . The international community , except for the United States , views it as occupied , and the Arab League on Sunday condemned what it called Israel 's efforts to take advantage of Assad 's downfall to occupy more territory . <p> Israel is on high alert after last year 's Oct 7 atrocities in which thousands of Hamas fighters infiltrated Israel , killing over 1,100 mostly civilians and taking over 250 more hostage . <p> Mr Netanyahu said that the collapse of the Syrian regime was " the direct result of our forceful action against Hezbollah and Iran , Assad 's main supporters " , referring to two direct hits on Iran as the two countries ' shadow war came out into the open with two direct attacks from each side this year .
