<p> Hello . It looks like you 're using an ad blocker that may prevent our website from working properly . To receive the best experience possible , please make sure any ad blockers are switched off , or add https : **25;2447;TOOLONG to your trusted sites , and refresh the page . <h> Putin braces for Syria 's shockwaves <p> People celebrate atop a toppled statue of Syria 's former president Hafez al-Assad in Damascus on December 8 . Islamist-led rebels took Syrica 's capital in a lightning offensive , sending President Bashar al-Assad fleeing and ending five decades of Baath rule in Syria . Photo by Louai Beshara/ AFP <p> The advance of the Syrian opposition rebels led by the Islamist group , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , over the last week explosively reawakened the dormant Syrian civil war . Their success inspired ordinary Syrians living across the country to take the streets and proclaim the end of the brutal dictatorship that began in 1971 when Hafez al-Assad took over the presidency of Syria and ended sometime over the weekend when his son , Bashir al-Assad , fled the country . <p> Images of long-suppressed people pulling down statues of a dictator are greeted with enthusiasm in the West , but the situation in Syria is complex . HTS grew out of the Al-Nusra Front ( Al-Qaeda 's ( AQ ) official affiliate in Syria ) . Its leader , Abu Mohammed al-Jolani fought in the Iraqi insurgency against the US as a member of the group that eventually became Islamic State ( ISIS ) . <p> Other forces operating in Syria include Turkish-backed rebels supported by the Turkish military , Kurdish forces -- including the US-backed People 's Defence Units instrumental in defeating ISIS -- and Syrian government forces supported by Russia and Iranian proxies . It is the only country in the world to have both a US base ( al-Tanf ) and Russian military bases . <p> The consequences of the reignition of this conflict will reverberate outwards from Aleppo , Hama , Homs and Damascus , impacting countless Syrians on the ground , competing ideological and ethnic groups across the region and Bashir al-Assad 's key ally , Vladimir Putin , thousands of miles away in the Kremlin . As well as losing face , Putin has lost Russian military personnel and equipment as well as revenue streams for his war in Ukraine . <p> The civil war began in 2011 as a popular uprising during the wider Arab Spring protests . Assad set his brutal Baathist secret police in motion to crack down on the protestors , prompting the formation of armed rebel groups such as the Free Syrian Army . By mid-2012 , an insurgency had escalated into a civil war . A counter-terrorism ally of the West became an international pariah , allowing Putin to re-establish strong relations between Russia and Syria . <p> Over the next two years insurgent forces , receiving arms from Nato and Gulf Cooperation Council states , made significant advances against the government forces . In 2014 Iran launched a major intervention to support Assad . Russia followed in 2015 . <p> This turned the tide of the conflict . Russia 's intervention primarily consisted of intensive air and missile strikes , but also , in support of the ground offensive by Iranian forces ( including their proxy Hezbollah ) , Putin deployed the private military company Wagner . <p> Wagner 's actions included the 2018 Battle of Khasham , when , alongside Syrian militia , they tried to seize control of an oil field from the US army and allied militias . A priority of the group was to seize control of oil and gas reserves and through a series of Russian companies extract the profits from them , making themselves rich and helping fund Putin 's wars . <p> Their greed was what got them kicked out of Syria when the need for them on the battlefield appeared to have receded . Some of the funding streams they established remained . <p> Syria thanked Russia for their support by being the only Middle Eastern country to vote against the UN General Assembly Resolution , denouncing the Russian invasion of Ukraine . <p> Before launching this offensive , opposition forces will have banked on Russian forces , which have been scaled back from 2015 levels due to redeployments to Ukraine , being unable to ramp back up as easily . They will have assumed the losses of proxies , Hamas and Hezbollah , in Gaza and Lebanon , meant Iran would also be unable to provide the same support as previously . <p> Even though they have professionalised as a military force and are leveraging drone technology , the opposition would not have expected government forces to capitulate so quickly . The garrisons in the north turned out to be hollowed out by corruption and undermined by under-manning . <p> Aleppo , the first city to fall , was held by the rebels between 2012 and 2016 . It was during its siege that Assad dropped chemical weapons , crossing western red lines to no real consequence . Russian and Syrian air forces dropped cluster munitions on populated areas and carried out " double tap " airstrikes to target responding rescue workers . The siege left over 31,000 people dead . It was retaken with ease and the opposition continued towards Hama . <p> Hama also has symbolic significance . On a visit to Syria in early 2001 , US congressmen received a lecture from Assad on how to combat terrorism . " Join the approach that has long been charted by Syria , " he suggested . <p> He was alluding to the flattening of Hama by Syrian tanks in 1982 in an operation by security forces serving Bashir 's father and predecessor , Hafez al-Assad , that killed 25,000 people and destroyed the Syrian Islamist movement led by the Muslim Brotherhood . It has remained a city opposed to Assad 's rule . As Hama fell , Assad raised his soldiers ' salary by 50% . <p> Homs was more strategically important . It sits at the crossroad that leads west to the heartland of Assad 's support , east to the sea and Tartus , the Russian Navy 's only operational base in the Mediterranean , and south towards Damascus . Its impending fall convinced Syrians across the country of Assad 's vulnerability and became the tipping point . <p> Assad pulled his forces back to protect the capital , but even the more well-equipped and well-prepared government forces , such as the Republican Guard , melted away . In war momentum and morale are key and the opposition had both , the government forces had neither . <p> Assad hoped that the calvary would arrive as it did in 2015 . Iran looked to send reinforcements , but realised they were not going to be enough so instead started pulling out its forces . <p> Putin dithered , before initiating a panicked withdrawal of his military and advised all Russian citizens to leave . Some Russian soldiers embedded within Assad 's forces have already been killed . <p> After the staggering Russian losses in Ukraine , Putin decided he did not have the numbers to commit more to their deaths in the defence of Damascus . The loss of the strategically important Tartus will hurt . <p> Putin 's success in preserving Assad 's regime supported his assertion that Russia was still a global power . It also highlighted the failure of the US and allies to honour their promises of support to the rebels . Not supporting Assad now as that success is turned to failure , denies Putin his self-awarded high ground . <p> While celebrating Assad 's downfall , it is important to remember HTS 's roots . Although it has cut ties with AQ , it is still classified as a terrorist group by the UN . <p> Al-Jolani , has claimed , " I ask God that it be a conquest in which there is no revenge , but rather a conquest full of mercy and love . " Their record of love and mercy towards other ethnic and religious groups is so far bare . <p> Human rights groups have regularly reported executions following detentions for " moral reasons " in the areas HTS have held in northwestern Syria . AQ has already urged the rebels to turn on " Jews and Crusaders " ( their term for all Christians ) . Turkish president Recep Tayyip Erdogan may use the situation to further persecute Kurdish groups within Syria . <p> When groups of differing ideologies who were united by a single objective achieve that objective , what they have in common becomes less than their differences . Strong leadership and compromise will be needed to prevent Syria going the way of Libya 's chaos of competing factions . <p> Syria 's prime minister , Mohammed Ghazi al-Jalali , has stayed in Damascus to help with a transition of power , claiming in a social media post that Syria " can be a normal country that builds good relations with its neighbours and the world . " This was the hope of many involved in 2011 during the Arab Spring . Sadly , few states were able to deliver on the promise of democracy . <p> Donald Trump 's impending return to office is another complicating factor for what comes next in Syria . It is unlikely he will have much interest in this conflict , but his unpredictability further occludes the picture . <p> He is unlikely to want to intervene other than to support Israel 's interests . Considering recent US history in the region , no action may be the best course of action . <p> Israel is watching with interest . This conflict will disrupt Iranian weapon supplies to Hezbollah , weaken Iran 's regional influence and further undermine Ayatollah Khamenei , But a safe haven for Islamist groups and unaccounted-for chemical weapons on their border will create another threat they may feel they need to deal with . <p> People in both Iran and Russia will see that even the most seemingly resilient , decades-long , autocracies can be quickly toppled when a critical mass of opposition is reached . <p> If we have learnt anything from the post-9/11 wars in the Middle East , dramatic power shifts after decades of dictatorship create unpredictable vacuums that are filled by violence . Within this tragically complex situation , Putin has seen the options as being the order of autocracy or chaos . <p> This time chaos does not suit Putin , but he has been proven powerless to prevent it , and this failure may have wider repercussions for him and many others . <p> Andy Owen is a former UK military intelligence officer <p> Hello . It looks like you 're using an ad blocker that may prevent our website from working properly . To receive the best experience possible , please make sure any ad blockers are switched off , or add https : **25;2474;TOOLONG to your trusted sites , and refresh the page .
