<h> Grangemouth oil refinery closure is not just an industrial issue <p> I WRITE with grave concern regarding the impending closure of the Grangemouth refinery , a decision that threatens to devastate Scotland 's economy and industrial heritage . As a former Alba Party MP candidate , I feel compelled to shed light on the far-reaching consequences of this short-sighted action and call for immediate intervention . <p> The Grangemouth refinery is not merely an industrial site , it is a cornerstone of Scotland 's economy . In 2023 , the refinery , its supply chain and induced spending contributed a staggering ? 403.6 million to Scotland 's GDP , representing a significant percentage of our nation 's entire economic output . This single facility supports 2822 jobs across Scotland , with 532 direct employees at the refinery itself . <p> The closure of Grangemouth would be economic suicide . It would make Scotland the only top 25 major oil-producing country in the world without an oil refinery , severely compromising our energy security and industrial capabilities . <p> The refinery 's importance extends far beyond mere numbers . It provides high-quality employment , with average salaries 45% above the local average in Falkirk . The loss of 532 well-paid , technical jobs would be a crushing blow to the local community , potentially triggering a domino effect of economic decline . <p> Moreover , the refinery 's closure would disproportionately affect the local area , with 57% of employees residing in Falkirk and an additional 11% in West Lothian . The resulting unemployment could exacerbate existing areas of deprivation in Grangemouth , leading to increased social challenges and reduced opportunities for our young people . <p> This is not the first time that Grangemouth has faced closure . Former first minister Alex Salmond successfully intervened on two occasions to save Scotland 's only oil refinery , demonstrating the kind of leadership and foresight that is sorely lacking today . <p> The current Westminster and Scottish governments have failed miserably in their duty to protect this vital asset . Their inaction stands in stark contrast to Salmond 's decisive interventions and their meek words offer cold comfort to the thousands of workers and families whose livelihoods are at stake . <p> ( Image : Jane Barlow ) <p> We can not allow this horrific act of industrial vandalism to proceed unchallenged . I urge our policymakers to take immediate action by investing in modernising the refinery to ensure its long-term viability and compatibility with our net-zero goals ; exploring options for government intervention , including potential nationalisation or public-private partnerships , and developing a comprehensive industrial strategy that recognises the strategic importance of domestic refining capacity . <p> To the public , I say , make your voices heard . Contact your MPs and MSPs , sign petitions -- such as that at **42;595;TOOLONG ... -- and join demonstrations . <p> We must show that Scotland will not stand idly by as our industrial heritage is dismantled . As Salmond said : " The closure of Grangemouth would be a national disgrace , transforming a site with 10,000 years of combined expert knowledge into a mere import terminal . We can not allow Scotland 's natural resources and the jobs theysupport to be exported only to import refined products at a premium . " <p> The stakes could not be higher . The closure of Grangemouth is not just an industrial issue . It is the defining economic challenge of our time . We must act now to save Grangemouth , protect our economy , and secure Scotland 's industrial future . <p> IT appears the SNP have relaunched " a renewed grassroots campaign in a bid to unite the support for Scottish independence " and " turn it into a movement " . <p> I remember it was a powerful movement back in 2014 and 2015 before things rapidly went downhill , ending up with a disastrous election result in July this year . <p> Apparently , the party has " four key points on how independence supporters can get involved and turn the vision into a reality " . The suggestion is made that SNP members should convert three friends to the cause . <p> I try to persuade what friends who will listen to me that independence is still a good idea but it is difficult when , after many years as an SNP supporter , you are finding it increasingly difficult to persuade yourself . <p> I am not sure how the general public outside of the readers of The National will even know of the website 's existence , perhaps given its content that is just as well . If this is an example of a " renewed grassroots independence campaign " I fear for our future . <p> Anne Laird <p> Inverness <p> TWO classy columns side by side in yesterday 's Sunday National showing the very best in journalism -- Ruth Wishart and Andrew Tickell 's brilliant , incisive and hilarious takes on our political masters ongoings . I wish they were writing every day . <p> Jim Butchart <p> via email <p> THE war in Gaza is a war on children . Israel has killed more than 14,000 children , bombed , starved or buried in the rubble . But the futures of more than two million Palestinian children are still on the line . We can not look away now . With Trump returning to power and no end in sight for Israel 's brutal occupation , " ending the war " wo n't be enough for Palestine 's children . Even if it stops the bombs it wo n't deliver freedom . <p> The goals are clear : stop the bloodshed , end the occupation , and achieve equal rights for all . But the path to get there must be shaped by those whose lives are most at stake : Palestinians . Israel says the horrors in Gaza are necessary for its security . But there can be no security when the future of an entire generation is being sacrificed . <p> It 's not just about the last year in Gaza , Israel 's occupation has lasted for decades . Now , for the first time in generations , we could help unite fragmented voices into one clarion call for freedom . Only pressure on Israel and its backers in the West and the US will lead to a democratic secular state for all . <h> Why are you making commenting on The National only available to subscribers ? <p> We know there are thousands of National readers who want to debate , argue and go back and forth in the comments section of our stories . We 've got the most informed readers in Scotland , asking each other the big questions about the future of our country . <p> Unfortunately , though , these important debates are being spoiled by a vocal minority of trolls who are n't really interested in the issues , try to derail the conversations , register under fake names , and post vile abuse . <p> So that 's why we 've decided to make the ability to comment only available to our paying subscribers . That way , all the trolls who post abuse on our website will have to pay if they want to join the debate -- and risk a permanent ban from the account that they subscribe with . <p> The conversation will go back to what it should be about -- people who care passionately about the issues , but disagree constructively on what we should do about them . Let 's get that debate started ! <p> Callum Baird , Editor of The National <h> Comments : Our rules <p> We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues . The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege , not a right , however , and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused. <h> follow us <p> This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation 's Editors ' Code of Practice . If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then please contact the editor here . If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact IPSO here
