<p> If you have a daughter or a grand-daughter or a sister , close your eyes and try to picture her in hell . Deep underground , caged , struggling to breathe in the foetid air , unwashed , ragged clothes , a mane of curly hair crawling with lice , in pain from gunshot wounds to her hand and leg , starving , dehydrated , watched over by men who want to rape or murder her and may put a bullet through her head on a whim ; a young woman stripped of everything that makes us human except , perhaps , some irreducible sense of who she was and may yet be again if she is saved . ( A flickering hope , almost extinguished , but not quite . ) And now the camera moves in closer and we see something etched on the young woman 's left arm , a tattoo : " My mum is always right , " it says . <p> This is Emily Damari , 28 , and she had been held hostage by Hamas for over a year when I sat down on Wednesday to interview the mum who is always right . <p> " 425 days , " says Mandy Damari , in a parched weary voice , the south London twang with its wide vowels still surprisingly strong after over 40 years living in Israel . Mandy has been using that voice a lot this week in the UK , petitioning Sir Keir Starmer ; Kemi Badenoch ( both PM and Leader of the Opposition mentioned Emily and Mandy in the House of Commons ) ; Nigel Farage ( Mandy was impressed ) ; Foreign Secretary David Lammy ( not impressed at all , but we 'll come to that ) ; broadcasters ; ambassadors ; lobby groups -- basically anyone who might be able to do something to free her daughter or at least relieve her torment with some humanitarian aid . <p> Mandy has appealed to the Prime Minister and other leaders to help the hostages but is shocked by their complacency <p> Making speeches to world leaders is the very last thing this tiny ( she is just over 5ft ) , unassuming kindergarten teacher would have felt comfortable doing before Emily was taken captive . But the maternal instinct -- which turns out to have the tensile strength of tungsten under pressure -- has over-ridden her fear of the spotlight . Earlier this week she gave a stirring address to Labour Friends of Israel , and , while welcoming their good intentions , she did not hold back from rebuking the UK 's actions ( or rather shaming lack thereof ) . " Last month , the British government voted for an unconditional ceasefire in the UN that would leave Emily and the other hostages in the hands of Hamas , giving them no incentive to ever release them , " she said , " That vote shocked me and broke my heart . " <p> When we speak at the kitchen table of her friend 's house in north London , Mandy Damari has a forcefield of pain around her , which lends an extraordinary stillness and gravity to that slight figure , but there is anger not far beneath . She is furious with the UN where she recently spotted an uplifting statement in pretty calligraphy on the wall about human rights . " ' No one should be subject to cruel , inhuman , degrading treatment or punishment ... ' , it said . Well , that 's just lip service because my daughter is getting nothing that is written down on their poster . I said to them , ' you 'd better take that down because you 're not doing your job . ' " <p> Having visited its President twice in Geneva , she is angry too with the Red Cross . " They basically say they 're trying to do as much as they can , but Hamas is a terror organisation and we ca n't force them to do anything even though it 's a war crime . What is going on ? ' We 're doing as much as possible ' , but that 's what everyone says . So why are n't you getting humanitarian aid in there to Emily and the others when we know humanitarian aid is going into Gaza ? And they just say , ' well , we ca n't do it . They wo n't let us in . ' " <p> Does she believe them ? <p> " I believe they can do more . I believe everyone can do more . The Tory government cut funding to UNRWA ( the UN relief agency in Gaza ) after some staff were linked to the October 7 attacks but Labour has reinstated the funding -- where is that money going ? " A senior Foreign Office official told Mandy : " Do n't have a go at the Red Cross . They 've got a difficult enough job as it is . " And I was like , you must be kidding . Their job is to help people all over the world regardless of their religion or nationality and they do nothing for the Israeli hostages who are in the most barbaric situation imaginable . " When I suggest attitudes would be different if the hostages were n't Jewish , Mandy does n't disagree . <p> Mandy speaking about Emily at a press conference last week : ' The government voted for an unconditional ceasefire in the UN that would leave Emily and the other hostages in the hands of Hamas ' Credit : Shutterstock <p> The British government , meanwhile , has made sympathetic noises and then goes and does exactly the opposite of what it has promised . Two hours after her " very nice " meeting with David Lammy , the Foreign Secretary tweeted about writing to the Israeli government " to urge action on the unacceptable humanitarian situation in Gaza " and he did n't mention Emily or the hostages once . " It was a kick in the stomach straight after that meeting , and I thought , bloody hell , he knows I 've been saying we need humanitarian aid for the hostages or at least a sign my daughter is alive , and there was no mention at all of what we 'd said " . <p> A rare shaft of light came just minutes later when President-elect Trump tweeted that there would be " all hell to pay " in the Middle East if the hostages were not released before his inauguration in January . Hamas would be " hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied history of the United States of America . " <p> She says she is deeply cynical about politicians in general . " Politicians are not real people . They are led by power and money and ego . This whole thing is a game and it 's about how much people are willing to give up . " Her child is a pawn in that greater game . " I 'm a kindergarten teacher for two to three-year-olds . I know how to potty train children and teach them that the world is a good place , but I 've got no idea what the strategy of anybody is . I know my daughter was taken from her home when we were on a ceasefire . I just want them to get her back . " <p> Born in Beckenham 63 years ago , Mandy was just 20 when she went to volunteer for a month on a kibbutz . One day it rained heavily and , on her way back from the orchard , a man with dark curly hair and dark eyes offered her a lift in his cotton picker . She fell in love with him , a talented footballer who coached youth teams for 25 years until , tragically , he developed early-onset Alzheimer 's ( in a care home , he has no idea his darling girl is missing ) . <p> The couple married and settled in the idyllic Kfar Aza kibbutz in southern Israel , just two miles from the Gaza border , going on to have three sons and a daughter , who was born in 1996 . The children spoke Hebrew and had their father 's striking looks , so much so that , when Mandy took them to visit grandparents and aunts and uncles in the UK every year , people would ask if they were adopted . But Mandy remained remarkably British , believing that you should always form a queue ( baffling to Israeli relatives ) and her kids imbibed those English values . " When they went to parties , people always commented how incredibly polite they were because I 'd taught them please and thank you of course . " <p> Baby sister to three brothers , Emily became a tomboy who excelled at sport and inherited her dad 's charisma and charm . Playing football until she was 12 , she became an ardent Tottenham Hotspur fan ( prompting a Spurs fans ' chant , " She 's one of our own , Emily Damari , bring Emily home " ) . When I ask her mother what she was like at school , Mandy laughs and the veil of sadness which hangs heavily on her face lifts for a moment : " She was very naughty and good at getting out of homework , but the teachers always loved her . That 's Emily 's character ; naughty but lovable . " <p> When I met Mandy fleetingly back in September at the hotel in central Israel where survivors from kibbutz Kfar Aza were housed after October 7 , she said no offence but she did n't want to talk to a journalist . I understood her nervousness . If she drew attention to Emily , the last British hostage in Gaza , did that give her daughter a better chance of survival or put her in greater danger ? Trying to second-guess members of a death cult makes you paranoid . <p> The summary execution of six young hostages ( including the American Hersh Goldberg-Polin , whose mother Rachel did everything to publicise her son 's plight ) after 11 months in captivity jolted Mandy into a new sense of urgency , I think . She is now getting as much publicity as she can for the daughter who marked her 28th birthday in a tunnel under Gaza in June . <p> " That was a real low point , " Mandy recalls , " It made me feel like , what does it matter if we know Emily was still alive in March , because the six hostages were all alive and then something happened IDF soldiers came too close and they 're dead the next minute . The terrorists could film Emily , like they filmed Hersh , and then say , ' Okay , you 've done your video ' and put a bullet through her head . " <p> The one sliver of hope she has is that Emily is worth more to the terrorists alive than dead . " But they 're not nice , rational people , Allison , they 're psychopathic monsters and they might suddenly think , ' Oh well , we 're losing , let 's just kill them all . ' And that will be a good way to get back at Israel in the same way they raped those women at the Nova festival because rape is a way of destroying your enemy , or so I 've learnt this past year . So if Hamas feel they 're in a corner and they 're not going to get what they want , they 'll just kill them all . So we need a ceasefire now to get as many people out alive as possible , and they would feel that they 're getting something for it , rather than dragging this thing on and on until it 's too late , because they feel they 've lost so much that they 're going to kill them all . " <p> It was 6.30am on October 7 2023 when Mandy Damari woke to the sound of a siren . She lived on her own in a house about two minutes ' walk from her daughter Emily , who had a small place of her own in Kfar Aza 's youth quarter . Mandy 's son also lived nearby with his wife and two small daughters . A sleepy Mandy thought it was just another siren -- occasional rocket attacks were not unknown that close to Gaza although a ceasefire with Hamas had held for a long time -- but padded to her safe room just in case . Then , the alerts on her phone started to go mad . The Kfar Aza WhatsApp group warned residents to stay indoors because there was an infiltration by terrorists . Mandy heard gunshots outside and shouting in Arabic . One text said that the mayor , who lived a couple of doors away , had been murdered . <p> " Emily messaged me to say , ' Do n't go out of the safe room , Mum . ' I said I needed the loo because I had n't been to the bathroom and she was like , ' Mum , this is serious , Do n't leave the safe room , do n't leave it ! ' " <p> Mandy did n't hear from Emily again for over an hour so she sent her a message saying , " Are you asleep ? And Emily replied , ' Are you mad ? I 'm petrified , I 'm not asleep . ' " <p> The night before , Emily had been to a friend 's birthday party and had quite a lot to drink . Afterwards , she dropped by her mum 's house in high spirits and teased her saying , ' You do n't love me when I 'm drunk . ' And there she was sitting on my sofa smiling and winking at her brother , " Mandy recalls . <p> So , that terrible October morning , Mandy sent her a message -- " I love you when you 're drunk " -- because I was sure I was never going to get out of that room alive . And Emily sent me a little heart emoji back at ten past eight . And that was the last message I got from her . " <p> Mandy phoned her brother Rob in Leeds , saying she was calling to say goodbye and asked him to tell their father that she loved him . There was no electricity and Mandy was in the dark , her phone soon out of charge . She used the safe room to take private English lessons after kindergarten finished so she came across one of the mini torches she gave as a prize to her students and turned it on sparingly to preserve the batteries . She also found a small bottle of Rescue Remedy , spraying a couple of drops on herself every hour . <p> Mandy could n't see anything , but she heard a burst of gunfire out the front . What she did n't know is that terrorists shot at her front door and somehow a bullet jammed the lock , probably saving her life . Eventually , at about six o'clock in the evening , she heard Israeli voices and became one of the first to be rescued . At a local petrol station , she was reunited with her son and family . No one seemed to know what had happened to Emily , although someone reported that nobody dared attempt a rescue because her area was over-run with terrorists . <p> I walked through the youth quarter on my visit in September ; it looked like the charred aftermath of an apocalypse . All the small , single-storey houses were destroyed . Almost all of Emily 's twentysomething neighbours were murdered , save one who hid behind a mattress and the twins Ziv and Gali Berman who were also taken hostage . <p> At first , Mandy assumed her daughter was fine . " Well , she must have escaped . It 's Emily . There 's no way she 's going to die . " <p> Why did you think that ? <p> " Because it 's Emily . She 's resourceful , she never takes no for an answer , optimistic things will work out as they always do when Emily 's there . " Mum and daughter had been to an Ed Sheeran concert in London the previous year and " she managed to get us inside this golden ring somehow . Blagged her way in . I 'm such a pessimist I always think we 'll never find a parking space and Emily laughs , ' Do n't stress , we 're gon na get one , Mum , ' and it 's there . She seems to make her own luck which is why I have hope that she 's still alive . Because she does know how to survive . " <p> As the days went by and there was no news , Mandy started to believe Emily had been murdered , that they would identify her body at the Shura army base which had become a giant improvised morgue processing the mutilated corpses of scores of girls Emily 's age . <p> It was 11 intolerable days before the Damaris got a message from the Israeli government saying they suspected Emily had been taken hostage ; a week later they confirmed she was in Gaza . <p> Mandy was torn between relief and fear . " My mind was saying , would n't it have been better for her to be murdered and not taken hostage because she 's going to get raped or attacked by Hamas because they were mad in what they did on the seventh of October . " <p> Mandy got no more information until the November ceasefire when she was told that Emily was on a list of women and children who were scheduled for release . <p> This news gave hope to others on the kibbutz , too . In total , 19 people from Kfar Aza were taken hostage and 12 came back - women and children - in that November deal . Emily was not among them , but several had been with her in Gaza and were able to tell Mandy how she was . <p> Hungry for every scrap of knowledge about her child , Mandy has managed to piece together a rough picture of Emily 's life in captivity . " At first , they were kept in a house and they were optimistic . They thought they were going to get released and there was no way Israel would leave hostages in Gaza . Then , the bombing started and the group Emily was with nearly died because a bomb went off very close to where they were staying . But they survived . I told you she 's lucky ! " <p> Mandy learned of her daughter 's injuries -- gunshot wounds to one hand and a leg sustained when Hamas snatched her , also shooting and killing Emily 's beloved cockapoo Choocha . <p> Emily with her mother <p> " They said she was n't getting treated for her injuries , just a bit of pain relief and some out-of-date iodine apparently , and for the first few days she was totally out of it . Then she recovered and started taking care of everyone . This young girl told me that every day Emily used to wake up and start singing , ' It 's a great morning . ' It 's a really terrible song , but it was like an ironic thing , and she got them all singing along . " Emily talked a lot to the older children too , trying to reassure them . <p> Mandy was not surprised to learn her daughter became a go-between between the guards and the hostages . " Another good character trait is that she knows how to get on with anyone in any situation ; she 'll know how to deal with them . Emily took care to be very respectful with their captors : every time she would step out of the room to go to the bathroom she 'd make sure she put on a hijab and covered herself up . She knew how to get on well with the guards , so that they liked her , I suppose . " <p> Mandy suspects Emily must have met girls in Gaza who had been sexually assaulted because one released hostage recalled a conversation Emily had with a guard in which she said to him , " You know what has happened to these women ? You know this is not your religion -- why are you doing it ? " <p> Mandy says she does n't know what the guard replied but it shows " she was n't afraid of them " . <p> So far in the interview , I have tried to be detached and keep my feelings in check -- Mandy 's are the only emotions that matter in this room -- but my own daughter is just five months older than Emily and I am suddenly moved beyond words . Just imagine the courage and the spirit it took for Emily Damari to reprimand a terrorist like that . <p> " You should be very proud of her , " I say and Mandy nods . " She 's very special , you know , she 's an amazing character , which is why she has so many friends . " <p> Later eyewitness reports , dating from when Emily and other hostages had been moved below ground into the vast network of tunnels , were less positive . " They said she had lice and she was constantly scratching , her hair , her body and everywhere . There was only cold water to wash in and a bucket to go to the toilet . No privacy . They wore the same clothes that they 'd had on for the last month and a half , put them back on when they were wet , which is why they got rashes . They were sleeping on thin mattresses that were really smelly and horrible . " <p> As well as enduring her own personal nightmare , Mandy has been living with the wider grief suffered by her community . About 800 people lived on the kibbutz : as a kindergarten teacher , Mandy knew all the parents and children . She went to 64 funerals of friends and neighbours in the first few weeks after October 7 , when she still did n't know the fate of her own child . People wondered aloud how she had the strength , but she says she found it oddly comforting to lose herself in something other than worrying about Emily . <p> She tells me she received proof that Emily was alive at the start of this year and another " proof of life " a few months ago . ( Mandy seems reluctant to say more lest she give something away . ) " Quite a few months ago now , so it 's totally useless because they would n't say how Emily was , if she was walking , if she was eating , it was just she 's alive , that 's it . And it does n't make any difference because you can say she was alive five minutes ago , and in the next five minutes she could be murdered . " <p> Mums are hard-wired to fret about tiny things that will improve their children 's lives , stuff that will give them any slight advantage , and Mandy 's brain continues to do so . Even though she ca n't see Emily or ask her how she is , she clearly obsesses over her situation . When they recovered Hersh Goldberg-Polin 's body from a tunnel , his spine was curved , Mandy says . " Hersh was tall , but Emily is short like me , maybe a bit taller , five feet three , which is good , so perhaps she can stand up in the tunnel ? " Her daughter may be held in some dark stinking airless poky hole , but at least she wo n't have to stoop the whole time -- something to cling to at least . <p> Does she think about what kind of state she 'll be in if she 's released ? <p> " Of course , I mean even for a strong person like Emily it 's going to be a lot . The conditions there are dreadful physically and mentally , well , it 's mental terror , is n't it ? It 's not like they 're in jail . They are in danger every second of their life . So what kind of toll is that taking on her brain ? You know , I was in my safe room for 12 hours with the terrorists outside , and I thought , ' That 's it . I 'm going to die . ' And I 've got a blackout from that period , I ca n't remember much at all . What is it like for Emily after 425 days of that type of terror , every single day ? " <p> Mandy tells me that when Israeli soldiers recovered the body of another young female hostage , Eden Yerushalmi , Hamas had starved her so she weighed 79 pounds -- 22 pounds less than before her abduction . " I mean , Emily was thin to begin with . She used to go running all the time so at least she 's very fit , so maybe she 'd be okay . But the hostages were getting like half a pitta bread and a date to eat . They were n't getting enough food definitely . So she 's probably starving . " <p> Unbidden , a thought comes to my mind of the Jews who survived the concentration camps and Mandy seems to read my mind . " They came out of Auschwitz and they looked like skeletons . So it does n't matter what Emily looks like . Well , it does matter . But , I mean , as long as she 's alive , that 's , you know , that 's the hope -- that she 's alive . " <p> I ask Mandy how she is doing and she shrugs ; indifferent , she clearly could n't care less how she is . " People say , you go and have massages , go to a psychologist . I wo n't do it until Emily 's back , because I 've got no time to sit with these people . I 've got no patience . If anyone talks to me for more than half an hour my concentration wanders . " All she will say is that she is not suffering from PTSD , because she is not " post " the " traumatic stress " . Rather , like Emily 's captivity , it feels neverending . <p> Mandy says she thinks she 'd know if Emily was dead : ' I look for signs . Sounds stupid , I know . Yesterday , I grabbed something to eat . And I was looking at the crisps , and they were called Emily crisps ' Credit : Heathcliff O'Malley <p> A social worker does check in with her once a week and she has a shared bond with parents of other hostages -- Talia Berman , mother of the twins Ziv and Gali ; Aviva Siegel , who was released from Gaza but whose American husband Keith is still there . " She 's a very good friend because she speaks English and she worked with me in the kindergarten . " Mandy gets huge comfort from her friendship with Simona Steinbrecher who knows exactly what she 's going through because her 31-year-old daughter Doron is also a hostage in Gaza . <p> The hostage relatives have a meeting once a week and , occasionally , Mandy goes to the hostage forum in Tel Aviv , although she dislikes the way the hostage cause has become politicised and turned against the Government . " Hamas are to blame , nobody else . " Emily is one of a hundred hostages remaining in the tunnels under Gaza , although not all are alive . <p> Her daughter is her last thought before falling asleep and her first thought on waking . She has a big photo of Emily next to her bed . <p> Do you talk to her ? " Yes , in the morning . I say , ' Keep strong and keep alive . You know I love you . Send you a hug , a virtual hug . Just send me a sign that you 're alive . ' " <p> Mandy thinks that she 'd know if Emily was dead . Although she 's not religious , she says she has a spiritual side . " I look for signs . Sounds stupid , I know , but I do get them occasionally . " Yesterday , she went for a coffee before a TV appearance and grabbed something to eat . And I was looking at the crisps , and they were called Emily crisps . Have you ever heard of crisps called Emily ? And there 's all sorts of weird things like that . " <p> Towards the end , with dusk falling , she tells me perhaps the cruellest thing of all . " Emily thinks I 'm dead . The released hostages told me that she thinks I 'm dead and her brother 's dead because Hamas told her there 's nothing left of your kibbutz , and there 's no one left alive . " Maybe Mandy does interviews like this one and speaks out hoping somehow that someone tells Emily that her mother is fighting for her . My God is she fighting for her . I ca n't believe that a love so fierce and devoted is n't felt by her child . <p> There are reports that Israel is willing to negotiate a ceasefire for the " release of all surviving women , all living men over the age of 50 who are held captive and hostages in serious medical condition " . The name Emily Damari is on the list .
