<h> Britain has lost its once great development prowess <p> It was my good fortune to serve in the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office ( FCDO ) at a time of perilous global upheaval . <p> Vladimir Putin 's brutal and illegal invasion of Ukraine , escalation in the Middle East , famine in east Africa and devastation in Sudan have upped the ante in ways I thought had been consigned to history . <p> I entered the House of Commons just a few years before the cold war ended . Today the world is once again in the grip of a galloping surge in tensions , where international institutions are being undermined , narrow nationalism is once again rearing its head , and the renewed spectre of nuclear confrontation is hovering dangerously into view . <p> We need exceptional minds to ward off the brewing storm , and Britain deploys that in spades through its extensive diplomatic network . Travelling the world I often marvelled at how skilfully our ambassadors navigated sensitive political terrains . I recall one diplomat who had secured a concession from her Chinese counterparts after a spirited exchange in perfect Mandarin . Our diplomats really are something else . <p> The 2020 merger of the Department of International Development and Foreign Office was like trying to mix oil and water <p> There remains one glaring weakness . The ' D ' in FCDO -- development -- is still struggling to be heard . The 2020 merger of the Department of International Development ( Dfid ) and Foreign Office was like trying to mix oil and water . There are brilliant diplomats of great experience and dexterity on the one hand , and the remnants of the Dfid caucus on the other , where key parts of Britain 's development prowess are undermanned and the extraordinary collection of brilliance which propelled British expertise into global superstardom has dissipated . <p> The greatest proof of this is when disaster struck in Gaza . As deputy foreign secretary I was responsible for driving forward Britain 's humanitarian response , but the truth is that had Dfid still existed it would have led the way with New York and Geneva to produce a comprehensive plan , which would almost certainly have been accepted by the Israeli government . <p> In the event we all chipped in -- Americans , Jordanians , Brits , Germans , Qataris and others -- but the ad hoc nature of these interventions was sub-optimal given the political and logistical complexities we faced . We tried to deliver aid by sea , but a pontoon broke up in bad weather . <p> We also tried airdrops , which killed five people . Why go down dangerous and less effective routes when there is a perfectly decent roads network ? Because when there is no centralised strategic plan , there is no common platform from which to negotiate ways forward . <p> We often talk ourselves down in Britain . While our global influence may have declined , our soft power exercised through Dfid had become our superpower , where for many in their darkest moments after flood , earthquake and disaster , Britain has been a beacon of hope and light . Dfid transformed Britain 's place in the world . <p> The problem now is this : any effort to recreate Dfid in strength , depth and splendour would lead to several years of disruption and structural change which would set development back even more . <p> That 's why I tried to make the merger work by bringing in structural changes and publishing a white paper which articulated Britain 's new development offer as part of the wider diplomatic machinery . <p> Diplomacy and development are different but in the national interest must be joined seamlessly to tackle the myriad crises and inequalities around us . Anything less would be second best . If the " D " in FCDO continues to play second fiddle when it needs to be front and centre of Britain 's international efforts , I fear there will be no choice but to tear down the structures once again . There is only so much we can match and bend , before we replace .
