<h> Your support helps us to tell the story <p> From reproductive rights to climate change to Big Tech , The Independent is on the ground when the story is developing . Whether it 's investigating the financials of Elon Musk 's pro-Trump PAC or producing our latest documentary , ' The A Word ' , which shines a light on the American women fighting for reproductive rights , we know how important it is to parse out the facts from the messaging . <p> At such a critical moment in US history , we need reporters on the ground . Your donation allows us to keep sending journalists to speak to both sides of the story . <p> The Independent is trusted by Americans across the entire political spectrum . And unlike many other quality news outlets , we choose not to lock Americans out of our reporting and analysis with paywalls . We believe quality journalism should be available to everyone , paid for by those who can afford it . <p> The Americans were n't suddenly swinging in behind the rebellion that swept away more than 50 years of rule by the Assads . The Pentagon unleashed B-52 bombers , F-15 fighters and A-10 Warthogs because the coalition that roared into Damascus , led by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , has its roots in violent global Islamist extremism . <p> The US , aided by small units of British Special Forces and MI6 , has a significant presence in eastern Syria , where it uses bases protected by Syrian Kurds , and some desert hideouts , to campaign against what remains of the so-called Islamic State . <p> The sudden victory of rebels over the Syrian government meant that , no matter how newly moderate HTS and its allies may say they are , Isis will want to reclaim some of the territory it once ruled . And it 's got a lot more in common with Syria 's rebels now than it ever did with the ousted , secular , Assad regime . <p> In Damascus , the HTS leader , Ahmed al-Sharaa , called for the establishment of a transitional government . His people have issued orders banning random shooting and insisting that women should not be forced into conservative Islamic dress . His message is " we 're not Isis " . <p> The HTS leader Ahmed al-Sharaa 's nom-de-guerre is Abu Mohammed al-Golani , meaning father of Mohammed from Golan <p> But he was . And he was also in al-Qaeda . And plenty of the militia who make up the coalition that has won this phase of Syria 's civil war are fellow travellers with the ideology of al-Qaeda 's Osama bin Laden and Isis 's Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi . <p> Just as some areas liberated from Assad after 2012 became a magnet for jihadi fanatics from around the world , so , inevitably , a Syria entirely freed from the dictator will draw extremists to a landscape that has been freed from the hypocrisy , murder and corruption that characterised Assad 's secular rule . <p> They will have overpowering resentments to draw on , too . Whatever the HTS-led coalition and transitional team may claim to want , many will flock to Syria to create a state they hope will be a beacon in the darkness that 's been cast across the Middle East . <p> Al-Sharaar 's nom-de-guerre is Abu Mohammed al-Golani -- meaning father of Mohammed from Golan . <p> The Golan heights are Syrian territory taken by Israel in 1967 . On Sunday , Israel took a bit more to establish a " buffer zone " . He 'll want to liberate Golan from Israel every bit as much as he wanted to save Damascus from Assad . <p> And as an Islamist who believes in the brotherhood of Muslims through the Umma ( the worldwide Muslim community ) , he 's now presiding over a Syria that has vanquished Arab nationalism ( in the form of Assad 's Ba'ath Party ) and may now serve as a base to recover territory , and avenge lives , lost to Muslims . <p> The appeal to potential recruits is obvious . <p> Some 80 per cent of the 43,000 people killed by Israel in Gaza over the last 13 months have been women and children . The international criminal court has issued an arrest warrant for Benjamin Netanyahu , the Israeli prime Minister , and former defence minister Yoav Gallant , for war crimes . The UK seems vague about whether these Israelis risk arrest here . The US has rejected the ICC 's ruling outright . <p> Israel continues to get military aid from America , and to be able to buy weapons from the UK . <p> There 's no suggestion in the West that Israel , which continues to grab Palestinian land illegally in the West Bank and appears to have a plan to drive all 2.5 million Palestinians out of Gaza , will risk economic sanctions if it does so . <p> Compare that to the crippling sanctions that have been rightly imposed on Moscow , the ICC ruling that would mean president Vladimir Putin would risk being collared at Heathrow , and the aggressive weapons embargo facing the Russian Federation . Putin 's regime has killed , the UN estimates , about 12,000 civilians in just under three years . <p> To many non-extremists this looks like racism and hypocrisy on the part of the West . It 's just the latest example of how brown lives do n't matter to Western leaders . The US-led invasion of Iraq showed how little Washington knew , or cared , for the consequences of its violence . <p> Barack Obama 's refusal to make good on his promise to punish Assad for his chemical weapons attacks on his own people drove that point home , as did his earlier refusal to back the democratic forces that rose against the Assad regime in the first place . <p> Now Syrians , mostly Sunni Muslim , have solved their own problem by ridding their landscape of Assad . <p> As they did so the US smashed as much of Isis as it could to prevent extremists flooding west to Damascus , and Israel bombed all the sophisticated weapons it thought were in Syria to prevent anyone using them to , say , liberate the Golan . <p> Syria 's new leadership may want to create a safe sensible new nation to create a country that the millions of refugees want to return to and make good on their promise of safety for religious and ethnic minorities . <p> But the very success of the rebellion may be its undoing as it will attract many who have much more dangerous plans . America 's recent bombings show how close some of those dangers now are .
