<p> LONDON - Lebanon dollar bonds rallied by around 2 cents on Monday after rebels in neighbouring Syria toppled President Bashar al-Assad , fuelled by expectations the events could weaken Lebanese armed group Hezbollah and bring change to the country . <p> Lebanon 's 2029 bond gained the most , up 2.03 cents to bid at 12.76 cents on the dollar , its highest level since late 2021 , Tradeweb data showed . <p> The price remains deeply distressed , but the bonds have rallied at several points since Israel began bombing Lebanon and agreed a ceasefire with Hezbollah , with investors attributing the gains to hopes that if the group is weakened , it could break a political deadlock in the defaulted nation and enable progress towards sustainable fiscal policies . <p> In Syria , rebels seized the capital Damascus in a lightning advance and Assad fled to Russia , ending 13 years of civil war and more than 50 years of his family 's brutal rule . <p> Analysts said the latest events meant Iran had lost a key component of its arc of influence in the region , as well as its overland link with Hezbollah in Lebanon . <p> " This undermines Hezbollah further , which , in the near term , means lower security risk for Israel and a potentially more market-friendly government in Lebanon , " said Hasnain Malik at Tellimer . <p> Hezbollah has played a big part in the power struggle in Lebanon , which has had no head of state or fully empowered cabinet since ex-President Michel Aoun 's term ended in October 2022 , deepening institutional paralysis in a country where one of the world 's worst economic crises has been festering for years . <p> The latest events might force a weakened Hezbollah to play a more constructive role in much needed political normalisation , said Tim Ash , senior sovereign strategist at RBC BlueBay Asset Management . <p> " New international focus on a wider Levant reconstruction effort will surely drag Lebanon along with Syrian coattails - assuming some stability and political reform in Syria itself , " Ash said in emailed comments . <p> Israel 's international bonds also strengthened a touch , up as much as 0.4 cents before trimming those gains . The 2043 bond was being bid at 85.40 cents in the dollar , Tradeweb data showed . <p> The cost of insuring exposure to the country 's bonds eased to 106 basis points , data from S&amp;P Global Market Intelligence showed . That is the lowest level since Oct. 11 , 2023 , in the immediate aftermath of Hamas ' Oct. 7 attack from Gaza . <p> Disclaimer : The content of this article is syndicated or provided to this website from an external third party provider . We are not responsible for , and do not control , such external websites , entities , applications or media publishers . The body of the text is provided on an " as is " and " as available " basis and has not been edited in any way . Neither we nor our affiliates guarantee the accuracy of or endorse the views or opinions expressed in this article . Read our full disclaimer policy here .
