<h> Mandy Damari named Telegraph ' women of the year ' <p> Mandy Damari , mother of British hostage Emily Damari named Telegraph ' women of the year ' ( Image : Getty ) <p> The Telegraph has named Mandy Damari , a British mother whose daughter Emily was taken hostage by Hamas during the October 7 attacks , to its " Women of the Year " list , compensating for her absence from the BBC 's prestigious 2024 list of 100 " inspiring and influential women . " <p> Despite her global campaign to secure her daughter 's release , which has included high-level meetings with political leaders and the UN , Damari was excluded from the BBC 's list . <p> Michael Deacon of the Telegraph pointed out that this omission gave the impression that the BBC 's list was " not really about celebrating women " . <p> Yet , Damari 's extensive efforts -- travelling across the globe , meeting high-level political leaders , engaging with the UN , and working with humanitarian organisations -- have gone unrecognised . <p> Since her daughter 's kidnapping , Damari has dedicated herself to advocating for her daughter 's release , meeting with the President of the International Red Cross in Geneva twice to demand more action . <p> In a recent interview with The Telegraph , Damari spoke candidly about the frustration she 's felt with the international community and the British Governments response . " Last month , the British government voted for an unconditional ceasefire in the UN that would leave Emily and the other hostages in the hands of Hamas , giving them no incentive to ever release them , " she said . <p> " That vote shocked me and broke my heart . It would make the situation worse for everyone . It was as if the British government was saying that these hostages , including my daughter , are expendable . " <p> Damari has expressed her belief that governments and organisations can do more , saying , " I believe everyone can do more . " <p> She is also critical of the UK government 's approach to funding , particularly following the Tory government 's decision to cut funding to the UN Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees ( UNRWA ) , after links between some staff and the October 7 attacks were discovered . " Where is that money going now ? " she asked . " Why are we not using it to help the hostages ? " <p> Damari also expressed her deep dissatisfaction with the limited role of humanitarian organisations , especially the International Red Cross , in responding to the crisis . Despite her personal visits to Geneva to meet with Red Cross officials , she felt that their efforts were insufficient . <p> " They basically say they 're trying to do as much as they can , but Hamas is a terror organisation , and we ca n't force them to do anything even though it 's a war crime , " she said . " What is going on ? Why are n't they getting humanitarian aid to Emily and the other hostages when we know aid is going into Gaza ? They just say , ' Well , we ca n't do it . They wo n't let us in . ' " <p> Despite these setbacks , Damari remains undeterred in her mission to bring her daughter home . <p> She has received multiple pieces of " proof of life " from Emily , which have given her some hope that her daughter is still alive . <p> Damari has continued to call for an immediate ceasefire to protect the remaining hostages , stressing that time is running out . " We need a ceasefire now to get as many people out alive as possible , " she said , adding that prolonging the conflict increases the chances of the hostages being killed . <p> In contrast , Einav Zangauker , an Israeli woman whose son Matan was also taken hostage during the October 7 attacks , was included in the BBC 's list . <p> Zangauker has become an " outspoken critic of the Israeli government " , demanding a ceasefire to ensure the safe release of hostages .
