<p> A survivor of the 1945 Nagasaki nuclear blast has accepted this year 's Nobel Peace Prize on behalf of a group representing survivors of the US atomic bombings , and called for a world free from nuclear weapons . <p> Terumi Tanaka , 92 , is one of the three co-chairs of Nihon Hidankyo , a group for those who lived through the US atomic bomb attacks on Nagasaki and Hiroshima , and demanded " actions from governments " to achieve a nuclear-free world . <p> " The nuclear superpower Russia threatens to use nuclear weapons in its war against Ukraine , and a cabinet member of Israel , in the midst of its unrelenting attacks on Gaza in Palestine , even spoke of the possible use of nuclear arms , " Mr Tanaka said . " I am infinitely saddened and angered that the nuclear taboo threatens to be broken . " <p> Calling for an end to the use of nuclear weapons , he said : " I hope that the belief that nuclear weapons can not -- and must not -- coexist with humanity will take firm hold among citizens of the nuclear weapon states and their allies , and that this will become a force for change in the nuclear policies of their governments . " <p> Mr Tanaki recounted the pain and trauma he witnessed in 1945 in an interview with The Independent last month . He was just 13 when the 10,000lb atomic bomb " Fat Man " was dropped on Nagasaki on 9 August 1945 , landing around 3.2km from his family home . The scenes from that day would be " imprinted on his brain " forever , he said . <p> " I was lying down reading a book and then suddenly there was just light everywhere . Everything was completely white around me , and I heard this huge sound . It was like nothing I had ever experienced in my life but of course , I could sense that something very dangerous was happening . " <p> Mr Tanaka said he went to ground zero and walked around the city for days looking for five of his relatives . <p> " Three days later , you could still see hundreds of bodies everywhere , and the injured were just crouching in the shadows not receiving any care or attention at all . This is not a situation the human race should be living in . This is not what humans should be doing to each other . " <p> In his address in Oslo on Tuesday , he said that Nihon Hidankyo 's movement had undoubtedly played a major role in creating a " nuclear taboo " -- cementing the idea that such weapons must never be used again . <p> Ukraine 's Volodymyr Zelensky expressed " deep gratitude " on Tuesday for the " strong resolve " shown by US President-elect Donald Trump to end Russia 's war in Ukraine , after the pair met for three-way talks organized by French President Emmanuel Macron in Paris on Saturday . Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said Tuesday he was grateful for Donald Trump 's " strong resolve " to end the war in Ukraine , after meeting the US president-elect in Paris last week.French President Emmanuel Macron hosted t <p> SEOUL ( Reuters ) -South Korean President Yoon Suk Yeol gave an order to " drag out " lawmakers from parliament after he declared martial law on Dec. 3 , an army commander said on Tuesday amid concerns of a power vacuum with Yoon 's office saying it had " no official position " on who was running the country . Yoon is now the subject of criminal investigations on insurrection charges . Yoon said on Saturday he was entrusting his legal and political fate in the hands of his ruling People Power Party ( PPP ) . <p> A truck driver narrowly escaped death on December 10 after he lost control of his vehicle on a sharp curve and plunged into the Gan River in China 's Jiangxi province . After miraculously escaping the sinking vehicle , he remained trapped on the roof of the truck until passersby spotted him the next day .
