<p> Business and Trade Secretary Jonathan Reynolds said that the factional fight against Corbynism was worth it because it resulted in Jewish former MPs returning to the party . <p> Speaking on Monday evening to a Jewish Labour Movement ( JLM ) Chanukah reception in a central London Synagogue , Reynolds told the 150-strong crowd : " Many of you were directly involved in the fact that we had to wrestle , literally wrestle , control of the Labour Party machine back in order to do the right thing . " <p> He spoke about attending " nine and 10-hour meetings " on the Labour Party 's governing body , the National Executive Committee and sub-committee meetings to ensure moderates had control over the party apparatus . <p> The Business and Trade Secretary then shared an anecdote about Labour left members of the NEC attempting to stage a walkout of a key meeting , adding " it was on Zoom , and they could n't find the ' leave ' button " , to an eruption of laughter from the audience . <p> Reynolds said he would " do every single minute of those meetings again in a heartbeat , not just because that meant a Labour victory and a Labour government , but because it meant a Labour victory in Barnet and Bury . Because it meant people like Luciana Berger and Louise Ellman back in the Labor Party . Where they belong . " <p> Speaking to the JC after the event , Reynolds was asked whether the Labour government 's decision to suspend some arms sales to Israel had made engaging with the Jewish community more difficult and said " what we have chosen there in terms of what 's in the scope of those restrictions is the right balance " . <p> But said that he had the " ambition " to secure a free trade agreement with Israel . <p> " The resilience that you are showing , the leadership that you are showing , is vital , and you need to know that you that we have all of your backs in government , here at JLM " , she said , adding : " and any support that we can offer in the months going forward , as we tackle this scourge , you have it , so stay strong . Stay resilient . Keep your heads held high . " <p> The Finchley MP also spoke of her admiration for Mandy Damari , mother of 28-year-old Emily who is being held hostage by Hamas , who she met last week . <p> " The bravery and resilience of that woman and so many of the hostage families is something to behold in the face of some of the worst psychological , personal torture that one can imagine " , the Justice Minister told the room . <p> Those sentiments were echoed by co-leader of Progressive Judaism Rabbi Charley Baginsky who told the audience : " As we celebrate Chanukah , our hearts will remain heavy for those impacted by war in Gaza , for the hostages still waiting for freedom , for lives lost and for families grieving unimaginable losses " . <p> The reception was attended by communal figures including Board of Deputies president Phil Rosenberg and the Jewish Leadership Council 's public affairs director Russel Langer . <p> JLM national chair Mike Katz , who revealed that one in five of Labour MPs were either members or allies , told the JC he was delighted about how it went : " For the first time in 15 years , our Chanukah celebration was joined by government ministers -- even better that one was Jewish ! <p> He continued : " It was great to be able to reflect on the positives of Labour winning power , in the context of a very difficult year for our community , facing record levels of antisemitism and remember the plight of the hostages still captive in Gaza . The Business Secretary heard us loud and clear on the importance of the government not resting on either issue . "
