<p> When Alexis Bloom first watched the leaked police interrogation videos in which the Israeli prime minister Binyamin " Bibi " Netanyahu vehemently denies charges that he accepted gifts -- cigars , champagne and jewellery worth tens of thousands of dollars -- for political favours , she had two reactions . " How fascinating , and then , oh my God , I do n't speak Hebrew ! " <p> Excerpts from these interrogations underpin Bloom 's riveting documentary The Bibi Files , an excoriating expos ? of Israel 's longest-serving leader . The film examines how Netanyahu 's efforts to evade prosecution and cling to power have influenced his political decisions , including his coalition with far-right parties and his handling of the war in Gaza . Since his indictment in 2019 on charges of bribery , fraud and breach of trust -- charges he denies -- Netanyahu has managed to delay his trial multiple times , most recently citing the war and personal security concerns . His testimony is now scheduled to begin on December 10 , coinciding with the film 's week of release in the US and the UK -- timing that is not lost on Bloom . " The family are sort of monomaniacal about what 's written and said about them . They must be deeply annoyed by the film , if nothing else . " <p> Bloom and the Academy award-winning producer Alex Gibney ( Taxi to the Dark Side ) began work on a film about Netanyahu in 2023 -- before October 7 -- when the mass protests against his proposals to weaken the powers of Israel 's Supreme Court were at their peak . " My original motivation was to try and understand the upheaval that was happening in Israel , " Bloom , 49 , explains on a video call from her Brooklyn home , having just returned from school drop-off . " Everybody was saying it was connected to Netanyahu 's trial , and he was sort of insouciant about it . I saw an interview with him where he batted away the question like a fly . For months , there were hundreds of thousands of people protesting in the streets and it seemed he barely deigned to respond to the question . So , the connection between the protests and Netanyahu , even before we received the leaked material , was obvious . " <p> Netanyahu 's wife , Sara Netanyahu , with their younger son Avner in 2009 <p> DAVID SILVERMAN/POOL/AFP <p> The videos -- sent to Gibney in late 2023 by a source via Signal ( Bloom declines to reveal by whom ) -- comprise hundreds of hours of recordings made between 2016 and 2018 . The Bibi Files also contains unpublished testimonies by Netanyahu 's wife , Sara , their son Yair , close associates and tycoons including the Hollywood producer Arnon Milchan , who -- it is alleged -- Netanyahu helped with a tax break and visa issue in exchange for expensive gifts . <p> The film contextualises the incriminating footage with a portrait of Netanyahu that includes his carefully crafted image as " Mr Security " and a wife prone to angry mood swings . As well as demanding an opulent lifestyle , Sara Netanyahu seeks to control her husband 's political and media image . She is incredibly powerful , Bloom says . " And it was important for me that the tapes bring that to light . " <p> In addition , there are contributions from the investigative journalist Raviv Drucker , Israeli statesmen , colleagues , the former Shin Bet director Ami Ayalon and former Israeli prime minister Ehud Olmert , who was jailed in 2016 for corruption . There were , however , several people who chose not to speak out . " It 's like oaths that people try to keep , " Bloom says . " One is a kind of patriotism , that they do n't want to speak to foreign media because they find it unpatriotic . This runs deep in Israel . And the other is that they felt that it was disloyal to criticise during times of war . And I think there is a fear of Netanyahu . If they have business in Israel or they 're looking to enter politics in the future , they considered it too risky . I just found it incredibly disappointing , to be honest . " <h> Advertisement <p> Despite Netanyahu 's attempts to block it , The Bibi Fil initially screened as a work in progress at the Toronto Film Festival in September . It is illegal to show the film in Israel , Bloom explains , not for political reasons but because of an Israeli law that grants privacy to individuals who have been filmed in official proceedings . But she is aware that , even though it is geo-blocked , the film is being pirated and " passed around in WhatsApp groups like wildfire " . <p> Watch the trailer for The Bibi Files <p> Netanyahu 's interviews take place in his nondescript office . He is dismissive , often combative , banging his fist several times on the desk , barking that the accusations levelled at him are nonsense and that witnesses are liars . As well as lavish gifts , he is accused of providing a much-needed signature for the Israeli businessman Shaul Elovitch , owner of the news site Walla . In return , Netanyahu was allowed to influence positive coverage of himself and his family . We learn from Avi Alcalay , former editor-in-chief of the site , that " parsley " was the code word for more photos , and " less paprika " meant less critical . <p> One of Netanyahu 's tactics is to respond to any allegation with " I do n't remember " to the point that a police officer asks him if he realises that his response to 95 per cent of their questions is that he does not remember . The film then cuts to Nir Hefetz , Netanyahu 's former aide , the family 's former spokesman and adviser and a key prosecution witness who says Netanyahu has a photographic memory for details . " It 's jaw-dropping , " Bloom says . " The police say , ' Did your wife receive champagne ? ' He does n't know . He was in the car when they loaded up the trunk with dozens of bottles ! " <p> " The videos show us his supreme confidence , his ease with lying and manipulation , " she continues . " He 's a great performer and I almost thought of that as a title . He 's so comfortable in front of the camera . He almost lives for it , in a way . " <h> Advertisement <p> Bloom and Gibney , with whom she collaborated on We Steal Secrets : The Story of WikiLeaks ( 2013 ) , have said that they set out to make a " truth to power " film . Was there anything she learnt about Netanyahu that surprised her ? " The criticism that was expressed about him off camera , " Bloom replies . " I always try to maintain a middle ground and I 've never had such hair-raising things said to me in private about a leader . People would say he thinks he 's touched by God , and I was taken aback by that . It was said consistently that he lies , he 's hiding things , he thinks he 's better than everyone . " <p> Nir Hefetz , Netanyahu 's former aide , the family 's former spokesman and adviser and a key prosecution witness <p> ARIEL SCHALIT/AP <p> How do you make the considerable leap from receiving Cuban cigars to trying to control the media ? " It 's all connected , " she says . " Once you feel that l ' ? tat c'est moi , the state is me , there 's nothing that you can not do . There 's a famous line from Nixon about the tape recordings at Watergate when Frost asks him , ' Was it illegal ? ' And Nixon says , ' If the president does it , it 's not illegal . ' " <p> After October 7 , the film-makers paused working on the film . " I remember thinking , how can I make this film now ? " she says . But she returned to visit four times in the following months and realised the story was still important , just " that the stakes were higher " . <p> The Bibi Files makes no secret of Bloom and Gibney 's animosity towards Netanyahu -- is she concerned that some viewers may perceive the film to be anti-Israel or even antisemitic ? She is not . " Everyone interviewed is Israeli . And there 's a large segment of the Israeli population who believes Netanyahu should go -- the polls say around 70 per cent . By that logic , they 'd all be anti-Israel . " <p> She thinks that hardcore " Bibi-ists " will hate the film and not believe anything in it . " No matter what Bibi does , they 're going to vote for him . But there 've been a lot of people who 've said to me , ' I found it very informative . I had no idea . You 've allowed me to understand the big picture . ' That 's all we 're trying to do . " <h> Advertisement <p> Netanyahu in court for his long-running trial for alleged corruption <p> KAHANA/AP <p> Born in Johannesburg to a Jewish father and German mother , Bloom moved to England in 1988 , and then to the States in 1999 . She graduated from Berkeley Graduate School of Journalism in 2001 . Her work includes the Emmy-nominated films Bright Lights : Starring Carrie Fisher and Debbie Reynolds ( 2016 ) , which she made with her husband , the actor , director and producer Fisher Stevens ( Succession , Beckham ) and Divide and Conquer : The Story of Roger Ailes ( 2018 ) . She is also known for Catching Fire : The Story of Anita Pallenberg ( 2023 ) <p> Not only is Netanyahu 's trial looming , but he is now subject to the International Criminal Court 's arrest warrant . " I think Netanyahu 's alliance with the extreme right has led him to take some terrible decisions , " Bloom says . " The way he 's waged this war has meant a lot of unnecessary deaths -- both in terms of Gaza , and in terms of the Israeli hostages . " <p> Bloom 's hope is that viewers will see that character is not incidental to plot . " If you are power hungry and fuelled by entitlement and self-preservation , you have proportionately less time to think about the civic body , " she says . " For me , Bibi 's lack of integrity is going to take Israel and the surrounding region to a terrible place . " The Bibi Files is in select cinemas from December 13 and on demand ( Apple TV+ , Amazon , Google Play )
