<p> A Gaza protest at Cambridge University ( Photo by HENRY NICHOLLS/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> A Cambridge University professor bragged to colleagues that he relished watching videos of Hamas terrorists killing Israeli soldiers . <p> The conversation was reported to this newspaper by a Jewish academic at the same college , who said he had removed outward signs of his identity over fears that his family would be in danger . <p> It comes as the JC reveals widespread antisemitism at Oxbridge , with Jewish students reporting being spat at and targeted with swastika graffiti while others have described feeling " muzzled " in seminars and afraid to voice their views . <p> The Jewish academic , who wished to remain anonymous , removed his mezuzah from their door after October 7 because of the possibility it could lead to the " endangering " of his " family and children " . <p> Shortly after October 7 , he said , he was in college with fellow academics when he heard one professor remark that he had been relishing videos of Hamas attacking Israeli soldiers . <p> " He said the clips ' gave him reassurance about the world ' , " the Jewish academic recalled . " Whenever he felt down about the conflict , he went and watched videos of Israeli soldiers being wounded . I was repulsed that he could derive any type of gratification from human suffering . " <p> The academic , who lost a family member in the October 7 massacres , said there was " atmosphere of extremism that has come to surround this issue " at Cambridge , adding : " The voice of moderation , of civility , of co-existence between Israelis and Palestinians has been lost . <p> " In the most conspicuous of places , faculty members on social media will consistently lend credence to the view -- it 's a view reiterated consistently -- that Israel is a genocidal state , a pariah , indistinguishable from the Nazi regime " . <p> On Monday , the Community Security Trust reported that antisemitic incidents at British universities had increased by an unprecedented 117 per cent over the last two academic years . The period saw a total of 325 antisemitic incidents , a record high . <p> Two weeks ago , an overwhelming majority of students attending an Oxford Union debate revealed they would not have tried to prevent the October 7 massacres , had they had prior knowledge of them . <p> Academics at both Oxford and Cambridge said the universities had been engulfed by a culture of antisemitism and Israel-hate that one described as " totalitarian " , while Jewish students there told the JC about being abused on the street and on campus as academics established a " chilling " atmosphere of anti-Zionism in classes . <p> Others spoke of their distress over the anti-Israel " herd instinct " that dominated lecture halls , classes and common rooms . <p> Netanel Crispe , a Jewish student from Yale University who spent two terms at Cambridge this year , said he had been called an " effing Jew " while returning home from Chabad one night this year . <p> He said that one of his Jewish friends who was doing a master 's at Cambridge was " spat at " on their way to class while wearing a Star of David necklace . <p> In January , one Israeli student at Oxford claimed to have been " targeted " with anti-Israel material stuffed into their mailbox . <p> The offender reportedly wrote a letter of apology , but allegedly kept their student welfare position at the college , leaving the Israeli feeling " frustrated " . <p> On the morning of Simchat Torah this year , the Hebrew anniversary of October 7 , a swastika was scrawled on the front of the Chabad student centre in Oxford . <p> Several students also spoke about of being " muzzled " in class around conversations to do with Israel . <p> Members of the Pinsker Centre , a campus-based foreign policy think tank which facilitates productive dialogue about the Middle East at UK universities , told the JC they had received reports of students at Oxford altering their work for fear of being marked down due to their opinions about Israel . <p> " I could talk to you for a while about specific examples of students not feeling comfortable identifying as Israeli in lectures and seminars and not feeling comfortable to express their views , " said Mackenzie France , director of strategy at the Centre . <p> " We 've had reports of people changing what they are going to write in their essays and their dissertations because they 're afraid of their supervisor 's views on Israel . " <p> David Abulafia CBE , Professor Emeritus of Mediterranean History at Cambridge , accused the university of adopting a policy of " appeasement " towards pro-Palestinian activists , who he says have supported acts of " criminal damage within the collegiate university " . <p> In June , the university 's graduation building , Senate House , was sprayed with red paint by the same activist group to reflect what they called " Palestinian bloodshed " . <p> After mounting pressure from the Gaza student encampment -- a separate protest group to Palestine Action -- the university announced in July that it would collaborate with student activists in a dedicated task force to address their divestment demands . <p> Writing to the university authorities in August , Professor Abulafia -- the former chairman of the History Faculty , who has been a Fellow of Gonville and Caius College since 1974 -- voiced concerns about the move . <p> " You have not explained why it is permissible to negotiate with a party that has supported acts of criminal damage within the collegiate university and shows its vocal approval for the genocidal programme of proscribed terrorist organisations , " he wrote . <p> In late November , the Gaza encampment re-emerged in Cambridge , this time on the Senate House lawn , where Professor Abulafia witnessed " a very loud demonstration " involving the controversial chant " from the river to the sea , Palestine will be free " . It was " screeching through a megaphone " , he said . <p> " I find it intimidating , and I 'm sure a great many Jewish students find it intimidating . I 've spoken to academics who find it intimidating , " he said , and wrote again to the university . <p> Professor Abulafia has not received a response to his latest complaint . " To me , the really big problem is the way that the university is just avoiding the issue , " he said . <p> " They student activists are motivated by this obsessive hatred of Israel , which at times spills over into what many of us regard as overt antisemitism . And the university can not possibly be associated with this . <p> " There is a sort of herd instinct among academics . One tends to think that academics are intelligent people who can make up their own minds . But actually , a great many of them seem to be incapable of doing this when it comes to political issues . They tend to follow their leader and in this case , it will generally be a leader who is on the left , sometimes quite far to the left . <p> " There 's something rather totalitarian about the way academics often act over political issues in which , to be regarded as fully human , you have to agree with the current ideology . The term Orwellian is being used so often , but it does apply . " <p> Professor Abulafia added that he had had conversations with students who had expressed " fear " over writing openly about Israel in their university work . <p> Doctor Miri Freud-Kandel , a Fellow and lecturer in Modern Judaism at Oxford , told the JC that " we need to teach better " . <p> Amid the rise in antisemitism and the escalation of campus tensions since October 7 , she said , academics in Oxford have recognised the need to teach the history of Israel with more " nuance and context " . <p> She recently finished teaching a new lecture course , adapted from a pre-existing one on modern Judaism , called " Modern Judaism through the Lens of October the 7th " , that was taken by a broad range of students across the humanities and the social sciences . <p> This step was an attempt to rectify the framing of Israel in critical theory as a " setter-colonial state " , a portrayal which she said was " frightening " because " it 's so misguided , it 's so counterfactual " . <p> She said : " It 's a simplification of historical reality that fails to acknowledge the complexity and distinctiveness of the Jewish experience . It reflects the dominant influence that an American academic framing exerts over an awful lot of scholarship in the Anglophone world , and there is a requirement to address that and complicate it . <p> " What I argued in my Zionism lecture is that actually Zionism is best understood as its own version of the ' revolt of the colonised ' . Rather than seeing Zionism as a form of settler colonialism , it 's actually quite the opposite . It 's an embrace of the experience of being colonised through dispersion and exile . " <p> Last week , the JCrevealed that Jewish philanthropist , Ivan Berkowitz , had refused to grant ? 300,000 to fund a Rabbinic Book Project at Trinity College Cambridge because of an " infestation " of anti-Israel bias at the university . <p> In the wake of the chaotic Oxford Union debate , which descended into anti-Israel abuse , Sir Vernon Bogdanor CBE , who was Professor of Government at Oxford from 1996 to 2010 and now has the same position at King 's College London , told the JC that " a crisis of antisemitism has gripped elite universities " . <p> He said that the " appalling " environment at the university today did not resemble the atmosphere a few years ago . <p> His view was echoed by Baroness Deech DBE , the former principal of St Anne 's College , Oxford . She accused the university of not taking firm enough action to abate the " disgraceful " spread of antisemitism on campus . <p> More than 300 academics -- including Baroness Deech and Sir Vernon -- signed an open letter condemning the " inflammatory rhetoric , aggressive behaviour and intimidation " during the Oxford Union debate , at which a majority of 278 students voted in favour of the motion , " This house believes Israel is an apartheid state responsible for genocide . " <p> One speaker at the event , Miko Peled , a pro-Palestinian activist , argued that the events of October 7 were " not terrorism " but " acts of heroism " . <p> Baroness Deech told the JC : " For a great university like Oxford , with students from all over the world , which has been home to some of the most distinguished Jewish professors , scientists , Nobel Prize winners , and of course , students over the last century and a half , it is absolutely disgraceful and unbelievable that antisemitism and the denial of free speech and the failure of action on the part of the authorities should be allowed to prevail . " <p> She added : " It 's a failure . The university has put out statements , but they 're like the statements you get all over the place , like ' there is no place in Oxford for racism , Islamophobia , etc ' . It does n't mean anything . We want action . We want training for the army of equality and diversity officials in the meaning of antisemitism . We want students to be disciplined when they are behaving in an antisemitic way . We want gestures of support at every college . " <p> She added : " It 's only when Jewish students are persecuted that there 's a failure of action . " <p> After the Oxford Union debate , the Union of Jewish Students issued a statement calling on Oxford to take " urgent action " to combat the spread of antisemitism , citing increased harassment , intimidation and the glorification of violence over the last term . <p> A spokesperson for Cambridge University said : " We abhor antisemitism and any form of racism . Senior members of the University have been in regular contact with Jewish groups . Our priority is , and will remain , the safety and wellbeing of our staff and students . We will not tolerate unlawful discrimination , bullying , intimidation or harassment of any individual or group . Where staff or students have faced racist incidents , we will support them to report them to the police and raise a complaint through the university where appropriate . <p> " The working group ( set up to look into investments in and research funded by companies belonging to the defence industry ) was developed to reflect a broad range of relevant experience and views . It was agreed the group would include student membership . We remain keen to move forward with this important process and want to ensure the full range of views on these complex and vital issues are represented . " <p> A spokesperson for Oxford University told the JC : " The Oxford Union is not part of the University and must speak for itself about its events , which are neither regulated or recognised by the University . <p> " Oxford University thoroughly rejects and condemns antisemitism , and has clear policies spelling out there is no place for unlawful discrimination of any kind here . As our website states , we have adopted the IHRA definition of antisemitism in support of our work . We are committed to ensuring that all students feel safe , included and free to express lawful views . We investigate all formal complaints made about harassment or discrimination at the University and have taken steps to urge Jewish students in particular to report such incidents when they occur . <p> " The University has worked hard with our Jewish and Israeli students and staff over the past year to strengthen our response to harassment and discrimination . In the past term alone , we have together implemented a wide range of practical actions and many Jewish students and staff have acknowledged the progress made . <p> " Measures include new training for student leaders , freshers and staff , reinforcing to all students our expectations that they adhere to our disciplinary code and with our equality and harassment policies , and working with the Oxford Jewish Society to help students in reporting incidents and concerns . We have also established a task and finish group to consider student experiences with racial and religious discrimination , and which will recommend ways in which we can further improve our response . Throughout , we have made clear to all members of our University that they must conduct themselves with respect , civility and empathy . "
