<h> As Reform rises , a hard-left party could be next <h> Farage 's right-wingers are stealing headlines but it is only a matter of time before Labour 's Corbynite exiles regroup <p> This was always going to happen , was n't it ? Sir Keir Starmer has been prime minister for five months . Kemi Badenoch has led the Conservative Party for not even six weeks . Yet already His Majesty 's Government and Most Loyal Opposition are little more than the ensemble cast of the Nigel Farage Show . All anybody in Westminster wants to talk about is Reform UK and its leader . <p> Drinking at the same reception as Farage -- an occupational hazard at Christmastime -- feels increasingly like crashing a party thrown in his honour . Labour MPs and advisers , feeling sore , wonder if he might actually become prime minister if things keep going wrong . The democratic marketplace is in meltdown and there he is , circling menacingly : the vulture capitalist of Clacton . <p> All true . But it 's not the whole story . Reform may have monopolised attention but they do not own the title deeds to political insurgency . Something is stirring on the radical left too . You ca n't write a comprehensive history of New Labour without the reaction and rebellion it inspired from people such as Ken Livingstone , George Galloway , Tommy Sheridan , Dennis Canavan and other self-confessed socialists who beat them at the ballot box . Like the outline of a Victorian nobleman emerging from a daguerreotype , it was that volatile chemical reaction that gave the Blair project its form and definition . The same is true of this Labour government . <p> As cabinet ministers have been told repeatedly in their political meetings at Downing Street , this Labour leadership knows who its voters are . They are , in short , the one in nine Conservative voters who switched to Labour in July -- in marginal seats it was one in four -- and who did so because they believed Starmer had changed the Labour Party and shared their values on issues such as patriotism , national security and fiscal prudence . That , at least , is how the results were read by strategists in No 10 and it is these voters , some of them now tempted by Reform , who inform the things the prime minister says and to whom . His new anti-Tory catchphrase , " a one-nation experiment in open borders " , illustrates the point . <p> From this we can infer something else . This Labour Party knows who its voters are n't . Or , rather , the voters it is happy to lose . In July tens of thousands of those people , many of them Muslim , reached the same conclusion . In Blackburn , Dewsbury &amp; Batley , Birmingham Perry Barr , Islington North and Leicester South , the result was an independent MP . In Birmingham Ladywood , Bethnal Green &amp; Stepney and Ilford North , it meant a close shave for ministers such as Shabana Mahmood , Rushanara Ali and Wes Streeting . Look at places like Peterborough too , where George Galloway 's Workers Party won 12 per cent of the vote and nearly turned a Labour gain into a Tory hold . Starmer saw his own majority fall by 17 per cent in the teeth of an independent challenge and Green surge . <h> Advertisement <p> It 's possible to dismiss that set of results , coming in the midst of the Israeli assault on Gaza , as a one-off . But that may prove to be blindly optimistic . The conflict did dominate those independent campaigns but these were candidates who occupied a space to the left of Labour on public spending and welfare too . More often than not they capitalised on the failure of councils that Starmer 's team admit are dysfunctional and mismanaged . <p> Given everything this government is saying on migration and benefits , can we really expect voters who abandoned the Labour Party once to return as if nothing has happened ? That is before we consider what geopolitics and the Middle East look like in 2029 , which is probably to say not very pleasant . Ministers who bore the brunt of independent advance are under no illusions : their opponents are not going away . As one cabinet source notes , with weary resignation : " It 's a phoney war , soon to restart . " We have come a long way from the conversation I had in September with a minister who predicted that at least two of Jeremy Corbyn 's new colleagues wanted to take the Labour whip . <p> So can we expect an opposite if not quite equal reaction to an unpopular Labour government on the left as well as the right ? Do n't forget that seven Corbynite MPs elected under Starmer in July are now suspended by Labour , politically homeless , and mostly unrepentant about their rebellion on the two-child benefit cap . This week The Spectator suggested they may find a new home in a political party set up by the Independent Alliance , Corbyn 's backbench grouping . Friends of the former Labour leader deny suggestions that we can expect a new party in January but , having abandoned his lifelong and sentimental attachment to Labour , his mind is open to a new force on the left . Len McCluskey is among those who appear to be throwing their weight behind Collective , a talking shop that may yet evolve into an organised network of left-wing independents . One of his cannier advisers suggests that as many as 20 seats might be in play for an outfit that defined itself against western foreign policy and austerity . <p> That is certainly optimistic but , looking at the results and the polls , one would n't necessarily call it deluded . Nor , if everyone is being honest , is the Labour Party any longer a home for what we understand as Corbynism . In Parliamentary Socialism , a book whose merciless and prophetic conclusions now read as if they were written by Morgan McSweeney , Ralph Miliband -- the Marxist philosopher father of Ed and David -- bemoaned the " isolated and often pathetic figures " of the Labour left , " bitterly at odds with not only their leaders but with that large and permanent majority of the Parliamentary Labour Party " . He urged his fellow left-wingers to see through their " paralysing illusions about the true purpose and role " of Labour in Westminster . <p> Ralph himself would be the first to point out that five or even 20 MPs will not remake British politics by themselves . But in this volatile age of multiparty politics , mediated unpredictably through first-past-the-post , even small disruptions are having outsized impact . Whether the local populists of the Independent Alliance are the best men -- and they are all men -- to do it is debatable : their politics and voting records are already more complicated . If their presence has been noted in the Commons it has been for votes against VAT on private school fees and , in one case this week , a defence of cousin marriage . But the bridgehead to Westminster is there . As the right revolts , the hard left could yet cross it too .
