<h> Get the latest Birmingham Live breaking news on WhatsApp <p> Veteran Birmingham city councillor Martin Brooks has resigned from the Labour Party with a dramatic swipe at the city 's leaders and the national Government . They have overseen ' the destruction of the social fabric of the city ' and been responsible for ' poor governance ' and multiple ' fiascos ' , he claimed . <p> A staunch left winger and pro-Palestine activist , Coun Brooks has been at odds with his party and the local leadership for months , vocally expressing his fury over plans to close libraries , youth centres and day centres for disabled adults as part of swingeing cuts . He has also criticised Labour 's response to the crisis in Gaza and ignored guidance to avoid protest rallies . <p> Coun Brooks is currently suspended by the party , pending an investigation , and has been barred from using a Labour group office and facilities inside the Council House . He claimed he was being penalised for saying publicly what some other councillors were saying privately , and for standing up for his constituents over cuts that would ' destroy the social fabric of the city ' . <p> In a video on his social media channels and a statement shared with BirminghamLive , Coun Brooks set out why he was quitting the party he had served all his life , and said he was now standing as an Independent councillor for Harborne . We understand that , as well as facing a probe by the Labour party over allegedly personalised attacks on colleagues , he is also the subject of separate complaints to the council 's standards committee about his conduct . He has denied any wrongdoing and claimed he was being victimised for speaking out . <p> Coun Brooks said : " In the last year or so I have found myself increasingly at odds with the actions of the Labour leadership of Birmingham City Council . In my own ward the council is pursuing the closure of Harborne Library , one of the best-used libraries in the city and a key resource for primary schools who use it regularly . Even using the flawed data from the libraries consultation there was no justification for closing this library . <p> " Similar library cuts and closures across the city , coupled with youth centre closures , will have a devastating affect on the life chances of our young people in this , the youngest of European cities . Over recent months I 've also had the privilege of working with carers of citizens using Harborne Day Centre , a council facility providing day care for highly vulnerable citizens , and valuable respite for their carers . <p> " In October the city council cabinet agreed the closure of this and other centres , leaving south Birmingham with seriously inadequate provision . Again the consultation was process was poor , and the decision was based on flawed data . The outcome is some of our most vulnerable citizens will be deprived of essential facilities . <p> " Birmingham and other conurbations have suffered greatly from the effects of years of cuts by the previous Tory government . However , Birmingham 's problems have undoubtedly been exacerbated by the poor governance of the council leadership . <p> " Examples of this include the protracted uncertainty over the city 's equal pay liabilities which are a direct result of the council giving preference to one group of workers over others . The fiasco resulting from the poor implementation of the council 's ' Oracle ' computer system has led to massively increased costs and uncertainty regarding the council 's financial position . <p> " As a result of these failures we are facing nothing short of the destruction of the social fabric of our city . Labour activists in the city anticipated the election of a Labour Government would lead to a better understanding of the crisis facing us . " <p> " Yet Keir Starmer has stated the Government Commissioners appointed by Michael Gove should be left ' to get on with the job they 've been appointed to do . ' In October the lead commissioner Max Caller rode roughshod over the city council 's scrutiny process when he rejected multiple valid call-in requests from councillors across the parties over the flawed Cabinet decision to close day care centres . The council leadership has not even challenged this attack on our democratic structures . <p> " On a national level , as someone who has worked across the Western Balkans with communities devastated by armed conflict and even genocide , I was appalled by Keir Starmer 's statement following the terrible Hamas attack on October 7 , 2023 . That he used the attack to justify crimes against civilians in Gaza was despicable . <p> " I believed at the time that the tens of thousands of Labour Party members who oppose our Government 's complicity in the Gaza genocide would be able to bring some influence to bear on an incoming Labour Government to take a principled position against the aggressors . In this I was wrong . <p> " I will continue to serve the residents of Harborne Ward from now on as an Independent councillor . I am also keen to work with other individuals , groups and parties who are committed to protecting Birmingham 's public services . " <h> Brumwish 2024 - buy a gift for a child in need <p> BrumWish 2024 is Birmingham Live 's festive drive to get thousands of gifts to children and young people across our city - among them the homeless , the vulnerable , kids in care , kids who are poorly or struggling , and kids who have little . <p> Donate money to the appeal fund hosted by Thrive Together Birmingham - this will help pay for gifts for kids with specialist needs or specific wishes . <p> Buy a gift and , even better , rope in friends , neighbours and workmates to do the same , then drop off your pressies at Edgbaston Stadium , Edgbaston Road , B5 7QU on Friday 6th December , 10am - 3pm ; Saturday 7th December , 10am - 1pm ; or Monday 9th December , 10am - 1pm . Volunteers will be there to help you . Please do n't wrap your gifts . You can also drop off by arrangement until Monday 16th December - contact Louise on 07469 979286 . <p> Thanks to our partnership with #Toys4Birmingham , every single gift will find a good home in the loving care of a child living in B&amp;Bs or hotels , hostels or refuges , children receiving support from specialist organisations and charities , and families being supported by children 's centres and charities around the city . <p> Thank you to Amazon UK and the amazing team at the Sutton Coldfield depot for their support . <p> Coun Brooks has been a Birmingham councillor since 2022 , having previously served on the council from May 1982 to May 1999 . He is a former international fieldworker in Bosnia , Kosovo and Serbia and was made OBE in 2008 for his peacekeeping work in eastern Europe . <p> A Birmingham Labour spokesperson said : " Counc Brooks was suspended from the Labour Party and investigations into his conduct were ongoing . He has decided to leave the party before those investigations were concluded . " <p> He is the second member of the ruling Labour group to quit in recent weeks . Coun Shabina Bano , also elected in 2022 and also facing a party investigation , defected to the Liberal Democrats last month . <p> Story Saved <p> You can find this story in My Bookmarks.Or by navigating to the user icon in the top right .
