<p> President-elect Donald Trump 's appointee to advise him on Middle East affairs , Massad Boulos , is reported to have significant discrepancies between his public profile and documented business background , casting doubt on the thoroughness of the former president 's vetting process . <p> Corporate records reviewed by the New York Times reveal that Boulos , father-in-law to Tiffany Trump , is frequently described as a billionaire mogul , but actually manages a truck dealership in Nigeria that generated less than $66,000 in profit last year . The company , SCOA Nigeria PLC , is valued at approximately $865,000 , with Boulos 's personal stake worth just $1.53 , according to the securities filings in the Times report . <p> The advisory position , which does not require Senate confirmation , follows Boulos 's prominent role in Trump 's 2024 campaign outreach to Arab American voters , particularly in key swing states like Michigan . Boulos positioned himself as a critical intermediary , helping Trump navigate complex political sentiments within Arab American communities -- and doing Arab-language interviews with media in the region . <p> While Boulos has been active in Arab American political circles , his murky business background and lack of diplomatic and policy expertise raises questions about the depth of the vetting process conducted by Trump 's team -- who were also said to be caught-off guard by accusations against Pentagon nominee Pete Hegseth . <p> During the campaign , Boulos pounded the pavement in Michigan to tout Trump 's foreign policy record , claiming he was " the only president in modern US history who did not start any wars " , despite Trump resupplying Saudi Arabia with an arms package , including precision bombs and munitions , for its brutal war in Yemen . <p> Boulos 's political connections are multifaceted . He 's reported to maintain relationships with various Lebanese political figures , including Christian politician Sleiman Frangieh , an ally of Hezbollah whom the militant group endorsed for president . <p> Boulos 's own background includes a failed parliamentary run in Lebanon in 2009 . It was his son Michael 's marriage to Tiffany in Mar-a-Lago in 2022 that significantly elevated the family 's political profile . <p> A May meeting with dozens of Arab American leaders in Michigan highlighted the challenges of Boulos 's political positioning . The gathering , which included Trump adviser Richard Grenell , reportedly became tense when Grenell repeated controversial comments about removing Palestinians from Gaza 's " waterfront property " , causing frustration among attendees . <p> Trump announced the appointment on Truth Social in early December , describing Boulos as " a skilled negotiator and a steadfast advocate for PEACE in the Middle East " . <p> We will guide you through the aftermath of the US election and the transition to a Trump presidency <p> Enter your email address <p> Privacy Notice : Newsletters may contain info about charities , online ads , and content funded by outside parties . For more information see our Privacy Policy . We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply . <p> after newsletter promotion <p> If appointed , Boulos would inherit a Middle East in profound crisis , with Israel 's destructive and more than year-long war in Gaza leading to at least 45,000 dead Palestinians and international arrest warrants for the Israeli prime minister , Benjamin Netanyahu , former defense minister Yoav Gallant and Hamas leader Mohammed Deif . The portfolio also includes a new era for Syria as rebels toppled longtime autocrat Bashar al-Assad and war-torn Lebanon with ongoing strikes between Hezbollah and Israel . <p> The appointment also follows a pattern of Trump selecting family-connected individuals for key positions , with Boulos joining Ivanka Trump 's father-in-law , Charles Kushner , who was named as the potential US ambassador to France .
