<p> Roula Khalaf , Editor of the FT , selects her favourite stories in this weekly newsletter . <p> A defiant Benjamin Netanyahu denounced Israel 's media and prosecutors after he finally took the stand in his long-running corruption trial , deriding the proceedings as a dangerous distraction from the country 's wars in the Middle East . <p> The prime minister 's appearance , the first of what could end up being weeks of questioning , took place after repeated legal wrangling by his team designed to prevent him from being called on to testify . Proceedings began in 2020 but were long delayed by Covid , legal manoeuvring and the wars in Gaza and Lebanon . <p> Netanyahu 's harshest domestic critics have accused him of extending the conflict against Hamas in Gaza to delay this day of reckoning , while his supporters have demanded that he be unencumbered in order to lead the war effort . <p> The prime minister , who was charged with bribery , fraud and breach of trust in three complex , overlapping criminal cases focused on his relationships with wealthy business people , attempted to establish in the courtroom what he has alleged for years : that a left-wing media and prosecutorial cabal was engaged in a " ruthless witch-hunt " . <p> Prosecutors allege that Netanyahu accepted expensive presents such as champagne and cigars from wealthy friends in return for favours , and in other instances , offered regulatory advantages to media outlets to win favourable coverage . He has denied all the charges . <p> The hours of testimony on Tuesday barely touched on the facts at the heart of the case , however . Instead , Netanyahu 's attorneys led him through a line of questioning in which he presented himself as the harangued leader of an embattled state , who worked 17 hours a day to keep Israelis safe while fighting off lies and libel from journalists . <p> " I took criticism and attacks , insults , libel and lies , in a scope that very few people , and no one in Israel has ever faced , " he said . " There has never been such a biased media in any democracy , possibly in any country on Earth , as there is in Israel . " <p> His meandering testimony swung between crucial world events -- from the 1916 Sykes-Picot Agreement that partitioned the Middle East between western powers to Netanyahu 's 2015 break with then US president Barack Obama over Iran 's nuclear programme -- and the mundane . <p> The prime minister discussed his work habits , the number of documents he signed a day and the rare cigar he allows himself but , he said , he never has a chance to finish . <p> " Sometimes I sin with a cigar that I ca n't even smoke in peace because of the constant interruptions , " he said . " And by the way , I hate champagne . " <p> The trial has convulsed the nation 's politics , triggering multiple elections and has pitted Israel 's longest-serving premier -- who began his first of several terms in 1996 -- against a judicial system he has sought to tame through controversial reforms that triggered mass street protests . <p> Netanyahu , who has become increasingly reliant on the support of far-right political parties to stay in power , suffered a dramatic drop in popularity over his failure to prevent the October 7 2023 surprise raid by Hamas , in which the Palestinian militant group killed 1,200 people . <p> Israel 's subsequent offensive in Gaza has killed more than 44,000 people , according to Palestinian health officials , and Netanyahu 's domestic approval ratings have improved as the country landed devastating military blows against Hamas , Hizbollah in Lebanon , and Iran . <p> The testimony is set to turn more confrontational in the coming days when prosecutors are finally able to question him about the evidence they have collected in multiyear probes . <p> Those include allegations that Netanyahu and his wife Sara were plied with hundreds of thousands worth of expensive gifts , and that Netanyahu offered a trade to a newspaper publisher in which he would receive favourable coverage in exchange for helping dent a rival newspaper 's circulation . <p> But on the first day of the trial that could decide not just his political future , but also his personal freedom , Netanyahu unveiled a legal strategy that mirrors his political persona : that of a man who has sacrificed much for the nation , now the subject of a witch hunt that places Israel itself at risk . <p> During his short stints out of office , Netanyahu said : " I enjoyed trips , meals , even made a good living . " But then , he told the court , he was called back to serve Israel . " I went back to the coal mines . "
