<p> Roula Khalaf , Editor of the FT , selects her favourite stories in this weekly newsletter . <p> With tickets costing up to ? 3,200 and the event broadcast live on national television , there is every reason to expect the opening night of La Scala will be an evening of stellar opera . In a year when global conflicts have dominated headlines , the stage was set for a production that also felt timely . Verdi 's La forza del destino fits the bill : a sweeping revenge epic set to the backdrop of the 18th-century wars in Spain and Italy . With its idealistic conscripts and atmosphere of enveloping destruction , this was surely a work that would resonate . <p> War was certainly on the minds of those who participated in this year 's offstage drama . Before the audience of VIPs could push past paparazzi to take their seats -- guests included operatic veterans Pl ? cido Domingo and Jos ? Carreras -- pro-Palestine demonstrators brought traffic in the centre of Milan to a halt . And the smattering of boos aimed at Russian soprano Anna Netrebko at the curtain call was presumably punishment for her refusal to condemn Vladimir Putin 's war on Ukraine . <p> Leo Muscato 's time-travelling staging , the first of this opera at La Scala in 25 years , sets each act in a war from a different era , to make the point that human destruction is eternal . The result is a disorienting mish-mash that fast forwards from what appears to be the war of the Austrian Succession of the libretto to a bombed-out cityscape finale that brings to mind contemporary Gaza or Lebanon . <p> Muscato employs a revolving stage so that a succession of attractive scenes -- moodily lit groves on a summer 's evening , candle-holding friars before an altar -- can rotate into view . This stratagem allows for seamless transition into set numbers featuring the chorus ( in rollicking form as peasants , servants and pilgrims ) arranged on steps . <p> However , the sequence of tableaus badly lacks dynamism and anything in the way of a compelling overarching idea , leaving the singers to offer deeper insights . Netrebko , while lacking vocal heft in some of her role 's bigger moments , drew in listeners with luminous , expressive singing , winning applause that far overshadowed the final boos . Brian Jagde , stepping in for an indisposed Jonas Kaufmann , was a thrillingly virile Don Alvaro armed with a powerful middle range and ringing top notes . Ludovic T ? zier dominated proceedings as Don Carlo di Vargas , his rich baritone a joy to listen to . <p> Further standouts included Vasilisa Berzhanskaya 's zealous Preziosilla , Alexander Vinogradov 's solemn Padre Guardiano and Carlo Bosi 's farcical Trabuco . Riccardo Chailly conducted a clean and well-paced reading of the version of the score Verdi wrote for La Scala in 1869 -- tight and punchy in belligerent outbursts and spaciously dramatic where he needed to be . But the sheer importance and mass appeal of this operatic event does not lend itself to risk-taking onstage .
