<h> Maurice Saatchi : I have fallen in love again at 78 <h> The former Conservative Party chairman and advertising titan was devastated when his wife , the writer Josephine Hart , died of cancer in 2011 . Now he 's in a relationship with Lynn Forester de Rothschild , who lost her own husband two years ago <p> ' My life is over , " Lord Saatchi explained to me the last time we met , two years ago . We were sitting in the drawing room of his house in West Sussex , which had become a shrine to his dead wife . The advertising titan had taken its location off Google Maps but etched her name , Josephine Hart , into the lawn . He would eat a breakfast of grapefruit segments with Hart at her mausoleum after her death from primary peritoneal cancer . It was clear this reclusive multimillionaire who had " loved his wife passionately and beyond reason for 27 years of marriage " was still deranged by grief 11 years after her death . <p> Hidden behind a high hedge of laurels and rhododendrons , the house was covered in ivy . In the hall , Hart 's boots were still lined up with her fur hats . There were dark red roses between the portraits and Post-it Notes from his wife to " M " . Carved in stone above the library were the words " Shall we dance ? " Hart only wore black and white with dark red lipstick and the house mimicked her monochrome simplicity . Her clothes were in 14 wardrobes upstairs ; the 1,628 letters she sent her husband were neatly catalogued . This was a Grimm 's fairytale , the story of a man who , with his brother , Charles , ran the world 's biggest ad agency , Saatchi &amp; Saatchi , became Margaret Thatcher 's most trusted political guru and a late 20th-century legend , before disappearing from the glare of public life . I felt sad for this astonishingly erudite , clever and lonely man who said he talked to Hart every day " but she does n't answer " . <p> Saatchi with his late wife , Josephine Hart , 2005 <p> REX FEATURES <p> Today , at 78 , he appears happy and relaxed . It 's transformational . He ca n't stop smiling . " Really , do I look that happy ? " he says , clearly pleased . Yes , I reply . " Marvellous , " he says . He is still wearing the same glasses and billowing white shirt , but he no longer looks pallid and haunted as we wander through the House of Lords , gossiping . He has fallen in love . It 's my love story of the year , I suggest . He laughs . " In love again , " he replies , enjoying the sound of it . This advertising genius likes to think in three or four words . His mantra at Saatchi was " brutal simplicity of thought " . <p> Everyone can see it , I say . We sit down in the tearoom of the House of Lords on a Wednesday afternoon and fellow peers keep coming up to chat warmly . One even asks if his new relationship is romantic . " Yes " , he says , blushing slightly . <h> Advertisement <p> " My lord , nice to see you , and looking so well . We are here for you , " the waiter in the Lords tearoom exclaims . " Could we have tea for two , please , " Saatchi says , examining the scones , crumpets , teacakes and muffins . " A plate of sandwiches and maybe some little cakes . I did n't have any lunch and I 'm rather hungry , " he explains . He has his appetite back . <p> " You do n't want to write about how I found love again at 78 , " he tells me . " It 's a touching story , a widow and a widower , but it 's not exactly a rom-com . " Yet he has rewritten the ending to his tragedy by falling in love with Lynn Forester de Rothschild , 70 . It does n't take much prompting before he is telling me how much he adores her . <p> He first met Lynn 25 years ago when both their partners were still alive . She had married Sir Evelyn de Rothschild , a scion of the banking dynasty , in 2000 , having been introduced to him by Henry Kissinger . The Clintons invited them to honeymoon at the White House . " Lynn and Evelyn became friends of ours . We were often a four . We 'd go on holiday together , have dinners . Then Josephine died , followed by Evelyn . We went from four to three to two . " He trails off . <p> With Bill and Hillary Clinton in New York this year <p> GETTY IMAGES <p> The couple tried to comfort Saatchi in his unbearable grief when Hart died in 2011 . " Evelyn , unlike everyone else , would ring and harangue me about politics . It was n't an accident . He did n't want me to think about a dead person and he was one of the only people who could lift me out of my sunken gloom . " The years went by and then Sir Evelyn had a stroke and was in a wheelchair by 2022 . " He was incredibly stoic . The week before he died , he said he wanted to see me . He was 91 , and this tall-shouldered , magnificent man had shrunk and was almost unable to move any more , not even his eyes . It was shattering . Lynn looked after him , but she was exhausted too . I felt their pain . " <p> The widow and the widower remained in touch , but nothing happened . " We were just friends . It never occurred to me or her , never . I never thought , ' Wow , Lynn is very attractive , ' although obviously she is . She never thought , ' I wonder what he 'd be like ? ' Until we did . I know the exact time we flipped . We were at Harry 's Bar for dinner . How you get from a platonic relationship into a romantic one is a mystery . But it happened in a split second , in the eyes . Everything changed . I really had n't thought about any woman except Josephine for years . But Lynn suddenly said something and then I felt it . I was shocked . But she is a formidable , fascinating woman and I realised that we could make it happen . " <h> Advertisement <p> The phone rings and it 's Lynn . " Hello , dearest , " he says . The founder of the Coalition for Inclusive Capitalism is about to give a major speech in New York . He wishes her good luck . " She 's brilliant , she really does n't need it , " he says , " but it 's lovely we can be there for each other now . " <p> How did their relationship evolve ? <p> " Slowly . We had separate lives and quite a few houses . She 's in New York now . Older people like us have what 's called baggage and the issue from our previous marriages , that is , children . " In other words , they now have a blended family . " She has three grandchildren in America , so she is there for Thanksgiving for three weeks and then for Christmas , which is annoying , but you ca n't avoid it . " He has his stepson , Adam , and son , Edward . " She thinks I should be with her , but it 's all very new to me . Maybe we 'll alternate . " <p> Sir Evelyn and Lady de Rothschild in 2003 <p> GETTY IMAGES <p> They have n't tried to change each other , he says . " We are too old for that . She does n't want to redecorate my house or change my appearance . She has four spectacular houses in London , New York , Martha 's Vineyard and Aspen . We can have our own space , though I would prefer that she never left now . " <p> It 's an astonishing turnaround . " Yes , I thought life was over . People say I was very miserable and unhappy for years . I do n't remember it , but it must have been because I was in mourning . The nature of Josephine 's death was dire , " he says . " It felt a calamity , a catastrophe . " <h> Advertisement <p> It did sound utterly ghastly . Hart was his boss at his first job at the magazine company Haymarket . Saatchi took her to the Hemingway suite at the Ritz in Paris for their honeymoon and they replicated the trip every year . She became an acclaimed novelist while encouraging him to take over the world . His brother , Charles , the art collector , and Maurice , the two middle children of a Jewish family from Baghdad who had settled in Hampstead , north London , were determined to succeed . Their Mad Men life appeared gilded as the brothers created a string of memorable ads and Maurice campaigned to ensure Margaret Thatcher won three elections , starting with his " Labour 's not working " poster . He once told me he never washed up a plate or drove his own car . <p> Then one day , just before Christmas , Hart mentioned she had a mild stomach ache . Their doctor thought she looked fine but suggested as they were in London she could have a scan . " Off she went , only she did n't come back . I grabbed someone who said , ' We found some stuff . ' " They were sent to a specialist . " He said , ' Malignant . Advanced . Inoperable . ' The consultation lasted two minutes . She turned to me and whispered , ' Our life is ruined . ' Fourteen months later , she was dead . " <p> The couple told none of their friends about her illness right up to her death . " She was destroyed by the chemotherapy and treatments , " he says . It all came back to him when the Houses of Parliament started discussing the new assisted dying bill last month . " MPs and peers were talking about the end of life , and I could empathise . Cancer is the most frightening word in the English language for me . It was horrific -- the weight loss , the fatigue , the weakness , the nausea . Everything shrivelled . " <p> With his brother and business partner , Charles , 1986 <p> KEITH MACMILLAN <p> Would she have taken her own life if she could , I ask tentatively . " The doctors said even though this cancer is known to have a 100 per cent mortality rate , there is always hope , and we both found that comforting . But at the end they also explained to me that they wanted to put a ' do not resuscitate ' sign on her door . It is the starting point of saying there is no point to her life any more . I resisted it at first , then I realised there was no point in endlessly reviving her when she slipped into a coma . " <p> He has n't quite answered the question . But he managed to change the law , after Hart 's death , to speed up the chances of curing cancer with his Medical Innovation Bill of 2016 , which allows doctors to experiment with more treatments . " The mortality rate for Josephine 's cancer was exactly the same as it was 40 years before . I had to do something . " It was his proudest moment when the bill led to the Access to Medical Treatments ( Innovation ) Act . " Nothing would solve her cancer , not time or energy or money or love . I could n't face being unable to do anything for her , but this might help others . " <h> Advertisement <p> He has huge sympathy for those who battle 20 years of illness . " I 'm not sure what would have happened had Josephine had multiple sclerosis or dementia or motor neurone disease or Parkinson 's , but I 'd feel desperately sorry for their partners too . Whatever the disease , it 's dreadful , harrowing , extremely uncomfortable to watch . Exhausting for the carer too . " <h> The challenges of moving on <p> He once told me that he would feel he had betrayed his wife if he moved on . Does he think she would approve now of his new relationship ? " I had an interesting conversation with Bob Geldof and Lynn . I said in my most serious , sentimental voice , ' I believe that if Evelyn and Josephine were looking down now , they would say , ' This is good . ' There was a short silence , then Geldof said , ' Self-serving bullshit , ' and we all laughed because we 'll never know what Evelyn and Josephine feel now . " <p> How would he have felt if he had died and Josephine had found another great love ? " I would want her to live like Miss Havisham with all the lights out and the curtains drawn . Is that terribly selfish of me ? " It 's quite self-obsessed , but honest . " I did wait 12 years . " I suspect Hart , who once talked to me about the loss of three of her siblings by the age of 17 , would be pleased . She knew how to grab life by the throat . <p> The tale of a widow and widower does feel particularly poignant . " That 's a nice thought , but there is also a practical benefit . In that if the two living people , the new lovers , knew and liked the two deceased , it helps greatly . We can chat about them . It 's not like Rebecca in Daphne du Maurier 's novel . I can say , ' Josephine was brilliant , ' she can say , ' Evelyn was wonderful , ' and neither of us feels threatened . " <p> With Margaret Thatcher in 2010 <p> REX FEATURES <p> In her novel Damage , Hart wrote , " Damaged people are dangerous . They know they can survive . " Saatchi believes it . " But I nearly went under . I did think of ending it all . It was such a shock to lose your soulmate . How can a woman in her sixties who is that fit , always running and exercising , suddenly be told she 's going to die and then disappear before my eyes . " He must worry about Rothschild now . " It ca n't happen twice . She says she is going to live to 100 . I might die tomorrow because I 'm less fit . " <h> Advertisement <p> Should n't he try to keep healthy for her sake ? " No , I ca n't change now . Lynn has brought me to a fitness trainer , but it does n't work . It 's extremely boring . She asks me to go for walks , but she strides . It 's a march at speed . That is not my idea of a stroll . " He will have to compromise . " You 're right , I must . She has to as well . And I think we will . " <p> They are both Jewish , which he finds interesting . " Jews are hated now after what they are seen to have done in Gaza . I still ca n't see the point in bombing whole cities , but it is good to be able to talk to her about it all . " <h> Questions of politics <p> They also have astonishing address books as well as deep pockets , having toyed with buying The Telegraph newspaper together . They know everyone from the King to the Pope . Their political views differ though , surely ? Saatchi has been a crucial component of the modern Tory party . Rothschild is a key figure among Democrats . " True . I went to her home in Martha 's Vineyard this summer and there was a whole procession of Democrat presidents and congressmen and senators and attorney generals . They did n't mind that I was a Tory , but Lynn did say , ' Do n't say Donald Trump is wonderful and could be a great president , ' so I did n't . When people asked for the British perspective , I would reply , ' I do n't think it would be appropriate for a member of parliament of one country to interfere in the affairs of another sovereign nation . ' " <p> But they do n't argue about politics . " She will always be a Democrat ; I will always be a Conservative . Hillary and Bill Clinton are her tremendous friends . But I also thought Bill was astonishingly charismatic and clever . I 've found American politics gripping . I do sometimes say to Lynn that Trump could do good . There is something called the madman theory : people do n't want to agitate the madman in case the insane person reacts in a bonkers way . That might work in his favour with the Middle East and Russia . " <p> In the House of Lords for the state opening of parliament last month <p> AFP <p> Saatchi has also mellowed when discussing British politics . He is no longer prepared to be too rude about Labour . " They could recover . I do n't remember Margaret Thatcher being this bad , though she was disliked from the beginning . The Tories were all sunk in a complete gloom at the beginning of this year , but now we think maybe we have come out of our death spiral and could even win next time . It 's quite galvanising . " <p> What 's his professional view of Keir Starmer ? " He appears to be a very straightforward , reasonable person . He looks like a prime minister . But he won the election by following a strict strategy -- saying nothing , not giving the Conservative Party any chance to destroy him . He was prepared to look bland if people thought him safe . " And now ? " They obviously want to return to a traditional version of socialism , which is something that involves fairness and justice and correcting inequality . But they do n't seem to be able to express that . They need to own it rather than announcing policies to steal money from freezing OAPs or struggling farmers , and it was incompetent to pretend they were the party of business and then hammer them at the first budget . It just infuriated everyone . " <p> But he wo n't be returning to politics . " I am going to carry on having my nice life with Lynn . I 've done my bit . I did their advertising for years , I was Conservative Party chairman and chairman of the Centre for Policy Studies a centre-right think tank . I did the front bench for five years in the Treasury , which was murder . What more can I do ? I just want to write now . " <h> Ad man turns author <p> Ah , his new book . That is ostensibly what we are here to talk about . Only it 's called Orgasm , so it was quite hard to launch straight into it while having tea in the Lords . It 's very expensive at ? 80 , but it is beautifully created , with gorgeous illustrations and musings about his life . The chapters examine a series of contemporary myths , among them Dinner Parties are Fun , Conservatives are Cruel , We Will Rest in Peace and Truth is Good . " It is like a commonplace book . Marcus Aurelius started it . Authors then collected things they saw and heard and put them together in the view they may be interesting to others . " <p> And his views always are . But why Orgasm ? Is that an advertising gimmick ? " I called it Orgasm because it is one of the few words that still make people feel uncomfortable . But the title is not literal ; it 's about intellectual explosions of the mind . I wanted to explore whether it 's true that there can be a moment of truth and wisdom that can emerge from a clash of ideas . " <p> Saatchi at home in London <p> MARK HARRISON FOR THE TIMES MAGAZINE <p> In the book , he talks about the three easiest words to say : " How are you ? " After he lost Hart , he hated going to parties because he never knew what to reply except , " Terrible , " or , sulking , " People would open up about their own losses and I would realise I was not alone in this insanity , but it was hard to keep up any level of gaiety . " What does he say now ? " I do n't know . I 'm more interested now in how other people are . " Ca n't he just say " happy " ? " I think I am . You must tell Lynn . She 'll be pleased you 've noticed , " he says . " But I ca n't go around saying , ' I 'm happy . ' It 's a bit intimate and I do n't want to sound flashy or boastful . I would n't say I was rich either . " Most would think he deserves some respite after years of depression . " Thank you . Yes , it would be nice , " he says , as though he still ca n't believe his luck . <p> But does Lynn mind sharing the West Sussex house with Josephine ? She must find it a little odd . " No . She teases me a lot , saying I have created a shrine , and we both laugh . But she does also tell me I am amazing , and I do it back . I did n't realise how lonely I had become . " <p> Saatchi said at the launch of his book that he found it hard to believe that anyone can achieve anything without support and encouragement . " It 's true . It 's hard to do anything alone . I really believe that . As humans we are not very good by ourselves . " How does he now feel at 78 , looking back at the young Saatchi , just 24 , setting up an advertising company ? " Then I wanted to do anything that was likely to make me king of the world . Now I do n't care . I just want to be happy . "
