<p> The Holocaust Memorial Day Trust is launching 80 Candles for 80 Years to mark the anniversary of the liberation of the extermination camp Auschwitz-Birkenau ( Photo : HMDT ) <p> The Holocaust Memorial Day Trust ( HMDT ) has announced it is undertaking an " independent review of its governance processes and procedures in relation to major communications " . <p> This comes after the JC revealed that the trust had used text relating to the war in Gaza in the official invite to the UK 's Holocaust Memorial Day ceremony . <p> In a statement on Monday , HMDT described the incident as an " error in the wording of the invitation " and that they had " unreservedly apologised " for this . <p> Last month , the JC discovered that the official invitation for the ceremony referred to the " devastating violence against Palestinian civilians in Gaza " as a result of Israel 's war against terrorist group Hamas following its atrocities on October 7 . <p> The review into HMDT will be led by Lord Harrington , a former minister under Theresa May and Boris Johnson and former Conservative MP for Watford . <p> Harrington , who is Jewish , was described by HMDT as " a long-standing and widely respected supporter of Holocaust commemoration and education " . <p> HMDT 's statement continued to say that the review would make recommendations to the organisation 's board " with the aim of ensuring that any future major communications from the Trust are issued only after full and proper discussion and agreement by its Board of Trustees . " <p> In November , the JC also exposed that HMDT was nearly involved in a similar incident relating to using text regarding the conflict in Gaza on invitations to events but were stopped by the group 's honorary vice president Lord Pickles . <p> The former Conservative cabinet member told the JCthat while he did n't believe it was the intention of HMDT to " undermine the Holocaust " -- and the staff were " decent people " -- he criticised a " benign woke-ism " within the organisation that resulted in actions which outraged many in the Jewish community . <p> In an interview , revealed that " last year , they were having a similar kind of dilemma in their language " but " through persuasion " , and after his direct intervention , the text relating to Gaza was not used . <p> " You ca n't do the Holocaust-light . You ca n't water down the Holocaust " , he added . <p> HMDT went on to say that " staff will now remain fully focused on the significant commemorations in January 2025 to mark 80 years since the liberation of Auschwitz-Birkenau so as to ensure that millions of people in the UK continue to learn the lessons from the unique , world-changing and unprecedented horrors of the Holocaust . " <p> HMDT 's original actions caused discomfort for several Holocaust survivors and their descendants . <p> One , who spoke to the JC anonymously , said they were " uncomfortable as a survivor in the event being politicised " . <p> Lord Carlile KC , the former independent reviewer of terrorism legislation and son of a Holocaust survivor , said HMDT " should have been much more careful in the words they used " . <p> He continued : " The Shoah is a uniquely horrible event that is not being replicated in Gaza . Whatever criticism one might make of Israel 's military tactics , to equate it with the Holocaust is factually and legally inaccurate . " <p> At the time , HMDT Chair Laura Marks CBE said : " We apologise unreservedly that in our letter of invitation to the Holocaust Memorial Day National ceremony next January we referred to the Israel Gaza conflict . This was not appropriate and should not have happened . "
