<h> Get the latest Bristol Live breaking news on WhatsApp <p> A Palestinian woman living in Bristol has urged council chiefs to stop investing pensions in the arms trade . In a tearful speech , she called on councillors to divest millions of pounds from the Avon Pension Fund which are currently held in shares of firms making weapons used by Israel . <p> The Avon Pension Fund has ? 6 billion in assets , invested for staff at over 450 employers , including Bristol City Council , universities and schools . According to the Palestine Solidarity Campaign , the fund has invested almost ? 20 million in the arms trade and companies it claims are profiting from illegal Israeli settlements . <p> This includes General Dynamics , which produces the guns on fighter jets used to attack Gaza , and Northrop Grumman , which makes missile delivery systems for the Israeli Air Force . The fund is administered by Bath and North East Somerset Council , although Bristol is represented by Green Councillor Fi Hance on the fund 's committee . <p> Protesters gathered outside Bristol City Hall ahead of a full council meeting on Tuesday , December 10 , demanding councillors table a motion next month to call for the fund to divest from the arms trade . Several protesters also spoke to councillors during the meeting . <p> Lama Qidan , a Palestinian woman living in Bristol , said : " My family is back in the occupied territories in Palestine . They 've encountered some really difficult times , they have done so my whole life . This is the most livestreamed genocide that we 've ever seen . Every day I see my people shattered to pieces . It 's absolutely devastating . <p> " As the council , you must have something to do with the decision that Avon Pension Fund makes . I urge you to use whatever is in your power to ensure that investments are made into companies that are ethical and do n't violate human rights . " <p> Lama Qidan , a Palestinian woman living in Bristol ( Image : Bristol City Council ) <p> Youssef Ezzat added : " The council claims that they 're not responsible , which is not true . This is our taxpayer money and the council should invest it in an ethical way , and not funnel our money to companies who are complicit in genocide . Passing a motion will put political pressure on the Avon Pension Fund to divest from these arms trade companies . " <p> Complicating any decisions on divestment , most of the fund 's assets are pooled into the Brunel Pension Partnership , which controls over ? 30 billion of assets for several Local Government Pension Scheme funds . However , over 1,500 petitioners have now urged Bristol City Council to encourage the Avon fund to divest from firms " complicit in Israel 's attacks on Palestinians " . <p> Green Councillor Tony Dyer , leader of the council , said : " Anybody who has watched the terrible scenes in Palestine can not fail to be moved , and must take whatever action they can to try and prevent that from happening even further . Sadly , Palestine is n't the only place where we 're seeing people being killed and slaughtered . <p> " In the end it 's up to national governments , who need to step to the fore and put an end to what 's happening in Palestine immediately . These protests , coming out on a regular basis , appear to finally be having an impact on the pension fund . Any public pressure will have some influence . It 's impossible to say how much -- but staying silent is not an option . <p> " The more we put pressure on , by having public statements , having the marches we 've had on a regular basis here in Bristol and elsewhere right across the country , it must have an influence . People have to listen . " <p> Similar protests are taking place across the country , to encourage other funds in the Local Government Pension Scheme to divest from the arms companies involved in Israel 's attacks on Palestine . In the Bristol region , the repeated protests appear to be having an impact on decision-makers . <p> Responding to the growing public pressure , the Avon Pension Fund committee is now " considering its next steps " . The chair of the committee said the fund had ? 14 million invested in arms companies , " which primarily supply NATO partners and the UK " . <p> In a statement , Liberal Democrat Cllr Paul Crossley said : " War in the Middle East is a tragedy . The committee 's thoughts are with everyone affected , including people with family in the region . Various campaign groups have asked about Avon Pension Fund 's investments in companies who provide the Israeli military with defence products . <p> " We invest our ? 6 billion of assets to make pensions affordable for our 140,000 members and their employers . As responsible investors , we also invest to meet our net zero goals , for positive real-world impact , and to address issues such as human rights . <p> " Ongoing conflicts across the world , including in the Middle East , can lead to tragic abuses of human rights . Through pooled funds managed by Brunel Pension Partnership , Avon Pension Fund has ? 14 million of its ? 6 billion assets in companies involved in arms manufacturing and servicing , which primarily supply NATO partners and the UK government . <p> " The pension committee is considering different statements from various stakeholders and its legal and financial guidance , before it decides the fund 's next steps , which it will confirm as soon as possible . " <p> The investments in the arms industry are made through a specific passive equity fund , which is " aligned to the Paris agreement " , referring to a landmark decision made in 2015 on reducing greenhouse gas emissions . One challenge in divesting from the arms trade is there is no similar passive equity fund , and setting a new one up would prove expensive and complicated . <p> Cllr Fi Hance , Bristol 's representative on the Avon Pension Fund committee , said : " Like many others I have been horrified by events in Gaza . The thought that Bristol City Council could be complicit in the suffering of so many people is really distressing . I am therefore doing all I can to investigate how we can divest from companies that are linked to this ongoing genocide . <p> " From what I can see , the APF invests funds in a passive pool product , which splits money across thousands of companies at a low cost . The product that the APF invests in was chosen on its climate credentials , and includes a few companies in the ' aerospace and defence ' category . <p> " There are currently no products that are Paris-agreement-aligned and exclude aerospace and defence . As I understand it , to do this would require a new index to be set up at significant upfront cost , and other local authorities that have looked into this have faced significant legal barriers . <p> " I will continue to look over all options and work with campaigners , other local authorities and the APF to do whatever we can to make sure our investments are aligned with our values as human beings . " <p> Story Saved <p> You can find this story in My Bookmarks.Or by navigating to the user icon in the top right .
