<p> Iran 's supreme leader has claimed the US and Israel acted as the command centre that engineered the downfall of Syria 's former president , Bashar al-Assad , and the ousting of Iran from the country . <p> He also claimed Iranian intelligence had sent warnings to the Assad government about a possible attack for three months and predicted Syrian youth would eventually recapture the country , remarks that are unlikely to make it easier for Iran to build strong relations with the new leaders in Damascus . <p> Making his first comments since the collapse of a key pillar of Iran 's " axis of resistance " , Ayatollah Ali Khamenei told a gathering in Tehran : " There should be no doubt that what happened in Syria is the product of a joint American and Zionist plan . Yes , a neighbouring government in Syria plays an obvious role in this regard , and is still playing it -- everyone sees this -- but the main conspirator , mastermind , and command centre are in America and the Zionist regime . We have evidence . This evidence leaves no room for doubt . " <p> His reference to a neighbouring government seems to be about Turkey , which played a key role in supporting the opposition forces that fanned out from Idlib in a well-planned military operation that was far more successful than they had ever envisaged . <p> But Khamenei insisted : " Let everyone know that this situation will not remain as it is . The fact that some people in Damascus celebrate , dance , and violate the homes of others while the Zionist regime bombs Syria , enters their territory with tanks and artillery , is unacceptable . The Syrian youth will undoubtedly stand firm and overcome this situation . " <p> Ayatollah Ali Khamenei also appeared to make reference to the ' obvious role ' of Turkey in the Syrian government 's collapse . Photograph : AFP/Getty Images <p> He also called for the media to be be less negative about Iran , reflecting the fact that in recent days an open and self-critical inquest has been under way in Iran about what went wrong with its strategy in Syria , and its consequences for Iran 's future security , including whether to seek reconciliation with the west or instead build nuclear weapons . There have already been two closed sessions of the parliament to discuss the crisis , one held with the foreign minister and the other with the military . <p> Iran is already losing privileged access to the new Damascus government due to be dominated by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) until at least next March , and was not among the group of Arab states offered a briefing on Tuesday in the capital . By contrast , Qatar , a country that refused to recognise Assad , is due to reopen its embassy shortly , and is likely to be a key player in trying to persuade the Sunni HTS it needs to be inclusive if it is to thrive and enjoy sanctions relief . In a further blow to Iran 's status as defenders of the Palestinian cause , Hamas , the leaders of the Palestinian resistance in Gaza , has welcomed the fall of Iran 's ally Assad . <p> One of Shia Iran 's earliest concerns is protection of Shia mosques such as the Sayyida Zaynab mosque near Damascus . <p> Across Iranian social media , and in the reformist press , an open debate has started about how much Iran invested in propping up Syria and whether this was worthwhile . An early discussion point is whether Iran will ever be able to persuade the Syrian government to repay the financial debt owed to Iran , variously put at $30bn to $40bn . Investments in car plants are also in jeopardy . So far 10,000 Iranians have been flown home from Syria . <p> Pictures of the Syrian prisons such as Sednaya are also widely available on Iranian X. <p> Faizullah Arabsorkhi , a reformist political activist , wrote : " If Bashar Assad had believed that governing the country without the people was impossible , he might have had a different fate . " <p> Javad Zarif , Iran 's vice-president for strategic affairs , admitted mistakes had been made in Syria but argued the moment had come to change Iran 's foreign policy mindset from a threat-oriented attitude to an opportunity-oriented one . <p> He said : " The reason for Assad 's downfall was his arrogance over his victory over the militants , and his failure to convert the military victory into a win-win political agreement and the establishment of an inclusive government . But the speed of the fall was unpredictable for no one . <p> " Military victories are temporary , and history shows that if they do not lead to a win-win political agreement , they can be the beginning of defeat . " <p> He insisted the axis of resistance would not be weakened , but many observers have pointed to the loss of ammunition supply lines into Hezbollah in Lebanon . <p> Zarif and the foreign minister , Abbas Araghchi , have been trying to end Iran 's regional isolation by strengthening diplomatic relations with countries such as Saudi Arabia . They are also trying to reopen talks with the west on the monitoring of its nuclear programme . <p> A persistent Iranian analysis of the surprise speed of the collapse was the impact of sanctions since the US Caesar Act implemented in June 2020 , and the fact that soldiers were being paid only $16 to $17 a month , sufficient for 3 days . Araghchi said the army had seemed to be psychologically unprepared to fight . <p> One of Iran 's most cited political analysts , Abbas Abdiu , delivered a scathing note saying " in just one week all political , economic , and military investments have gone up in smoke " . He blamed those who had refused to listen to the criticism of the strategy , and insisted official state TV channels refuse to give airtime that warned the defence of Assad would come unstuck . <p> He wrote : " Apparently , all the interested parties knew what would happen in Syria except Iran . Not a single person in Iran had woken up from this pleasant and , in fact , disturbed dream to declare the danger . <p> " Bashar al-Assad is over , but this is a beginning for Iran . First of all , it should be answered very quickly and clearly where the mistake was and how much did we pay ? Is it possible to form a credible and independent expert group and answer this question ? If not , then know that we are in a state of compound ignorance and error . " <p> He said one reason for Assad 's fall was that Iran no longer had the power to provide support since its oil revenues , military power , and Hezbollah 's power in Lebanon have all decreased . <p> One Iranian based in Amol said " ordinary Iranians are widely discussing Assad 's fall , and what it means for Iran . Very few even middle-rank Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps agree with the Assad regime . Everyone knew it was a dictatorship that was being supported . " <p> Aware of the criticism , Khamenei insisted " Iranian troops had been there to provide advice to the Syrian government on defeating Islamic State " , and reminded the audience that Syria had been one of the few countries to back Iran in the deadly Iran-Iraq war .
