<h> The winners and losers of the political earthquake in Syria <p> Syrians gather at Umayyad Square to celebrate the collapse of 61 years of Baath Party rule ( Photo : Anadolu ) <p> cancel **31;2070;TOOLONG Share bookmark Save <p> share cancel **34;2103;TOOLONG <p> At first glance , the international winners and losers following the overthrow of Syrian president Bashar al-Assad are obvious enough . The US , Israel and Turkey come out ahead because their long-term enemy in Damascus has lost power , while his traditional supporters -- Russia , Iran and Hezbollah -- have seen a crucial ally defeated . <p> Is Syria finished as a unified nation state ? And , if not , who will be in charge and what will their policies be ? <p> Israel is an obvious beneficiary from the fall of Assad and a weakened Syria , a country which , not so long ago , was a potent military adversary . Yet last weekend , Israeli ground forces advanced without resistance beyond the demilitarised zone on the Syrian-Israeli border into Syrian territory , taking over the Syrian-held part of the summit of Mount Hermon . <p> Meanwhile , Israeli air strikes range all over Syria , from Tartus and Latakia on the Mediterranean to the outskirts of Damascus , destroying the heavy weapons of a Syrian army that has just disintegrated . <p> Israel can claim a crucial role in the fall of Assad because it was its open war against Hezbollah since September , combined with its attacks on the Iranian Revolutionary Guards in Syria , that deprived Assad of help from two of his most important allies . Israel now has an uncontested regional dominance it has never possessed in the past , able to make air strikes everywhere from Yemen to Iran . <p> This could not have happened without unconditional support from President Joe Biden , but US backing might be even greater with President Donald Trump back in the White House . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu might feel in a few months that Trump will allow him to expel Palestinians from Gaza into Egypt , and formally annex the West Bank . <p> Yet the undiluted nature of Israeli success can be exaggerated and , in some respects , Israel , despite its recent military successes , is a more insecure and uncertain place today than it was 18 months ago . <p> If the purpose of the Hamas raid into Israel on 7 October 2023 was to destroy a political status quo in the Middle East unacceptable to Palestinians , then it was a wild success . Israel may have shattered Iran 's much-vaunted " Axis of Resistance " against Israel , but this grouping never did much between 2006 and 2023 . Degrading it is not the game-changer that some imagine . <p> The US , Israel and the rest of the world face the same dilemma , which is that they do not know who or what will replace Assad in Damascus . Wishful thinking abounds . <p> Supposedly , Abou Mohammed al-Golani , along with the former al-Qaeda affiliate , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , have converted since 2016 into pluralists , tolerant of Syria 's religious and ethnic diversity . Golani said all the right things about abjuring revenge and respecting the religion of others while he was on the road to Damascus , but speaking in the great Umayyad Mosque he spoke critically about " Shia Iranians " , frightening Syrian Alawites , who belong to a branch of Shi'ism and were formerly the ruling elite . Some are already in flight . <p> It is not every day that Western states cautiously welcome into power a man and a movement they had formerly labelled as " terrorists " . They may also gulp a bit when they hear that the Taliban in Afghanistan has also congratulated them for having the correct " Islamic values " . <p> Moreover , Golani was not first radicalised by Assad 's atrocities , but by the Palestinian second intifada in 2000 . " I was 17 or 18 years old at the time , and I started thinking about how I could fulfil my duties , defending a people who are oppressed by occupiers and invaders , " he is quoted as saying in an interview in 2021 . <p> He went to Baghdad in 2003 to fight against the American invasion and occupation , becoming a member of al-Qaeda until he was detained and imprisoned in Camp Bucca , the US-run prison camp close to the Kuwait border . <h> Read Next <p> Turkey is the other country in the Middle East that benefits most from the victory of HTS , playing a substantial , though somewhat uncertain , role in organising it . It was Turkey that sustained the Idlib opposition enclave , refuge to three million people on the Syrian side of the Turkish frontier . Turkey greenlighted the HTS offensive , but apparently saw it as a way of putting pressure on Assad to have a dialogue with the opposition and to get him to stop bombing Idlib . Ankara was astonished by the swift unravelling of the regime . <p> But Turkey had a further objective , which was to drive back the Syrian Kurds , numbering two or three million , from Aleppo province , west of the Euphrates and -- in the longer term -- to destroy their US-protected quasi-state in northeast Syria . <p> This military campaign is barely reported in the media , but it has already produced bloody clashes and forced thousands of Kurdish refugees to flee . The Turkish-controlled Syrian militia , the Syrian National Army , has captured the Kurdish-controlled , though predominantly Arab , city of Manbij in fighting in which 50 died , according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights . It says that 11 members of the same family , including six children , were killed by a Turkish drone . <p> Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan will draw a domestic political benefit from the fall of Assad , since some of the three million Syrian refugees in Turkey can begin to go home . What is less clear is how far Turkey will want to develop into a greater regional power by making itself the protector of a new Syria . <p> As for the losers in the political earthquake in Syria , Russia and Iran will downplay their losses , blame everything that went wrong on Assad 's wrongheadedness -- and seek to fish in troubled waters . Hezbollah , badly damaged in its war with Israel and now with its supply route to Iran cut , is in far deeper trouble . <p> Syria will probably stay as the arena where foreign powers fight each other through local proxies -- and Syrians will be their victims .
