<h> An account on X , formerly known as Twitter , that allegedly belonged to Arsenal kit man Mark Bonnick shared a series of controversial posts and has led to an investigation <p> Arsenal have confirmed that they have opened an investigation after youth kit man Mark Bonnick was accused of posting antisemitic comments on social media . <p> Bonnick works within the Gunners ' academy and it is alleged that an account on X , which has his name and photograph , has been involved in a series of exchanges with members of the Jewish community . The accusations come amid an armed conflict between Israel and Hamas-led Palestinian militant groups which is taking place in the Gaza Strip . <p> On December 4 , the account which is believed to belong to Bonnick , in response to someone , posted : " Hamas offered to release all hostages in October . Zionist Israel refused . Persecution complex . " Three days later , a post read : " Why should they be protected any more than any other community ? Some see this as the problem Jewish communities thinking they should be put before others . " <p> During an argument about the Israel-Hamas war , there are said to be references to ' Jewish supremacy ' and ' ethnic cleansing ' . The account has since been deleted . The exchanges , however , have been published by another account on the platform and were seen by the Times . <p> It 's understood that Arsenal have received a complaint from at least one supporters group following the posts . The Premier League club said in a statement : " We are investigating this matter in line with our internal policies and procedures . Arsenal stands against all forms of abuse and discrimination . " <p> Should Bonnick be found responsible for the posts , he could also be the subject of an investigation by the FA as a participant in the game . <p> Arsenal will play two more Champions League fixtures in January before the first phase of this season 's new format comes to a conclusion . The Gunners are on course to qualify automatically for the knockout stages but should they drop below eighth position , they 'd be involved in a two-legged play-off which would take place in February . <p> The Gunners welcome Everton at 3pm on Saturday before hosting Crystal Palace in the Carabao Cup next Wednesday . Coincidentally , Arteta and Co. will travel to Palace four days later in the Premier League . Their final match of 2024 is at home to Ipswich Town on Friday , December 27.
