<p> Israel has a long history of capturing territory during wars with its neighbours and occupying it indefinitely <p> A boy carries an unexploded rocket propelled grenade at the site of an Israeli air strike in Qamishli in northern Syria that targeted shipments of weapons that belonged to Syrian government forces ( Photo : Delil Souleiman/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> Israel launched a wave of heavy air bombardments across Syria on Tuesday , in what local media described as the largest air assault in the Israeli air force 's history . The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , a UK-based monitoring group , said it documented more than 300 such strikes against research centres , arms depots and military infrastructure . <p> Israel 's apparent quest for absolute security at the expense of diplomacy has led to a war on multiple fronts , but as the US diplomat Henry Kissinger once mused : " Absolute security for one power means absolute insecurity for all others . " <p> The aftermath of an Israeli strike on the Barzeh scientific research centre affiliated with the Syrian defence ministry in northern Damascus ( Photo : Omar Haj Kadour/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> At the same time , the Israel Defence Forces ( IDF ) have reportedly crossed beyond the Golan Heights . <p> The international community , with the exception of Israel and the United States , considers the Golan Heights to be Syrian territory held by Israel under military occupation since the dying days of the 1967 Arab-Israeli War . <p> Three security sources said on Tuesday the Israelis had advanced beyond the demilitarised zone . One Syrian source said they had reached the town of Qatana , several kilometres to the east of the zone and just a short drive from Damascus airport . <p> Some Arab nations including Qatar and Saudi Arabia have accused Israel of a " land grab " in Syria , but Israeli officials say the move was " limited and temporary " to ensure the security of its own citizens . <p> While the UN special envoy for Syria , Geir Pedersen , has condemned Israel 's actions , Western nations have largely been silent , with the exception of the UK , which has defended Israel . <p> All this does nothing to bring security to an already fragile region , said Fawaz Gerges , professor of international relations at the London School of Economics . He argued that , once again , Israel 's supposed military expansion beyond a UN-monitored buffer zone in Syria flies in the face of international law . <p> " Since when has Israel 's occupation of any territory Arab territory been temporary ? " he said , pointing to the occupation of the West Bank and reported plans to split Gaza in half . <p> " It 's more than just a grab land , it 's about this rogue behaviour at this really critical juncture for a country Syria that has been plagued by war and violence . <p> " When they say security , what they mean is absolute security for Israel , which does not exist . If you really want absolute security for Israel , you have to occupy the whole Middle East , because absolute security and international relation does not exist . " <p> The IDF initially denied it entered Syrian territory beyond the demilitarised zone after various media reported sources as saying the Israelis had advanced to within 25km ( 15 miles ) of Damascus . The IDF 's Arabic language spokesperson Avichay Adraee said the reports were " completely incorrect " . <p> But the IDF international spokesperson Nadav Shoshani later acknowledged that Israeli forces were operating in " area of separation , and then a few additional points " . <p> An Israeli military vehicle returns from the buffer zone with Syria , near the Druze village of Majdal Shams in the occupied Golan Heights ( Photo : Jalaa Marey/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> He clarified : " When we say a few additional points , we 're talking the area of separation or the area of the buffer zone in vicinity . " <p> He added that these places were " points for defence " and the IDF was operating as part of a " process of trying to make sure the area keeps safe " and ensure stability . <p> Israel 's defence minister , Israel Katz , said the country 's navy " successfully destroyed the Syrian fleet " overnight , adding that he , along with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , had directed the IDF to establish a " sterile defence zone " in southern Syria to " prevent the entrenchment and organisation of terror " there . <p> Marina Miron , a post-doctorate researcher in the Department of War Studies at King 's College London , argued that Israel was using the situation in Syria , where the Assad regime has been toppled by opposition rebels , to its advantage to create a huge buffer zone . <p> " Syria has been a very important strategic partner for Iran that also allowed transfer weapons to Lebanon , " she told Al Jazeera . <p> " Now Israel is taking this opportunity , having weakened Iran-aligned Hezbollah , to establish this buffer zone and also take the Golan Heights -- not for security reasons , but for resources such as water , in order to minimise the Iranian influence and cut off Iran from Hezbollah . " <p> Israeli actions in the Golan Heights and Syrian territory in recent days trample a 50-year ceasefire agreement with Syria which established the buffer zone , Pedersen warned . " This needs to stop , " he said . <p> His comments were echoed by the UN Secretary General Ant ? nio Guterres , whose spokesman , Stephane Dujarric , said the UN peacekeeping force deployed in the Golan Heights , known as Unidof , " informed the Israeli counterparts that these actions would constitute a violation of the 1974 disengagement agreement " . <h> Read Next <p> While the US , Israel 's strongest ally , has not immediately commented on the developments , the Foreign Secretary David Lammy defended Israel 's extensive bombing of Syria by saying Israel had " legitimate " concerns . <p> " It 's right to understand that Israel has legitimate security concerns in a country that 's housed Isis and al-Qaeda , " he said . <p> Not that Israel needs the UK 's or other Western nation 's approval for its military actions . Netanyahu had already decided that the 1974 disengagement agreement with Syria had " collapsed " with the rebel takeover of the country . Israel has a long history of capturing territory during wars with its neighbours and occupying it indefinitely , often citing security concerns . It annexed the Golan Heights in 1981 in a move not recognised internationally , except by the US . <p> Meanwhile , people in Damascus are terrified of the approaching huge explosions and fires , said Professor Gerges , who opined that Israel 's actions in the past year in Gaza and Lebanon showed it was flagrantly flouting international humanitarian law on an epic scale , despite legal challenges in the International Court of Justice and International Criminal Court . <p> " People talk about geopolitics , Israel is one of the most important subversive states now , vis-a-vis Syria , " he added . " Israel 's action could really undermine and complicate the transitional process in Syria . <p> " It 's basically doing everything that any law-abiding nation should not be doing under the pretext of security . It 's not security , it 's absolute security for Israel . " <p> And so Israel 's quest for absolute security continues . It may want to ignore the late Kissinger 's advice anyway , seeing that he has long been considered a war criminal whose policies led to the deaths of thousands of civilians .
