<p> Hello . It looks like you 're using an ad blocker that may prevent our website from working properly . To receive the best experience possible , please make sure any ad blockers are switched off , or add https : **25;2300;TOOLONG to your trusted sites , and refresh the page . <p> Conservative peer Daniel Finkelstein today used his Times column to ruminate on Reform 's latest batshit conspiracy theory -- that Arla Foods , the dairy giant that produces Lurpak butter , is working with Bill Gates to poison humanity . <p> In case you 'd missed this one , the company is adding Bovaer , an entirely safe cow feed additive thought to help reduce methane production , to its products . Reform has sniffed -- no pun intended -- a plot , with MPs Rupert Lowe and Richard Tice announcing they are boycotting Lurpak , and Tice , with depressing inevitability describing Arla 's use of the additive as " woke " . <p> " It is not necessary for anyone to actually read a research report into the safety of Bovaer , let alone understand it , " wrote Finkelstein . " The only thing people are required to comprehend is that they should n't trust the food standards people or the scientists . Instead , they should trust tweets by Tice based on an article he read in The Daily Telegraph . " <p> In response to Finkelstein 's column , Tice turned his language up a notch . The Jewish peer , he wrote on X , " wants to experiment with our bodies " , adding : " No thanks . " <p> The language would be particularly disgusting even had Finkelstein 's family not been so terribly reduced by the Holocaust , a genocide during which bodies were literally experimented with . Finkelstein 's mother , Mirjam Finkelstein , was a Holocaust survivor of the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp . His grandmother was one of seven siblings in Poland and the only one to survive the war . <p> Tice has been critical of Gaza protestors in the past for some of their tasteless comments surrounding the Holocaust . Seems it 's fine , though , when it involves someone questioning your cherished belief a malevolent tech billionaire is tampering with your butter ! <p> Hello . It looks like you 're using an ad blocker that may prevent our website from working properly . To receive the best experience possible , please make sure any ad blockers are switched off , or add https : **25;2327;TOOLONG to your trusted sites , and refresh the page .
