<h> Sign up to The JC newsletter <h> With Trump 's return , will the Abraham Accords make a comeback ? <p> The last time the president was in power , Israel made peace with Arab nations for the first time in decades <p> Benjamin Netanyahu and Donald Trump participate in the signing ceremony of the Abraham Accords ( Getty Images ) <p> December 10 , 2024 09:30 <p> Two months ago , when Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu delivered his " blessing and curse " speech at the UN -- framing the curse as Iran 's evil axis and the blessing as the Abraham Accords , which could expand further -- he mainly had two countries in mind : Saudi Arabia and Indonesia . <p> These could have been two strategic , game-changing agreements that would have dealt a significant blow to Iran 's plans of imposing a siege and an all-Islamic war against Israel . But the Hamas war temporarily halted both . <p> Now , Trump and his team are putting these advanced drafts back on the table , shaking off the dust and actively seeking to push them forward . <p> First in line is Saudi Arabia , the guardian of Islam 's holy sites and the world 's largest oil exporter . Riyadh 's fear and loathing of Iran has led the kingdom over the past year to manage two seemingly contradictory relationships : one with the US and the West , with a wink toward Israel , and another with Russia and Iran , alongside gestures toward the Palestinians . <p> Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman is torn between two main options : waiting for Trump to resume talks on a full defense alliance with the US , in which case part of Saudi compensation would be normalisation with Israel ; or signing a more limited military defense agreement with the US , before Joe Biden leaves office , without requiring normalisation with Israel . <p> The grand deal would ensure , via a defense alliance , that the US would come to Saudi Arabia 's full defense in the event of Iranian threats or attacks . The scenario Saudi Arabia fears most is a severe Iranian strike targeting them in retaliation for Israeli attacks . <p> In such a deal , the US would provide Saudi Arabia with a nuclear reactor for peaceful purposes ( theoretically , it could later be used to enrich uranium to military levels ) , F-35 jets and advanced air defense systems . Saudi Arabia , in turn , would sign a normalisation agreement with Israel , legalising and expanding economic ties and upgrading military and intelligence cooperation that , according to foreign reports , already exists . <p> The smaller deal would relieve Saudi Arabia of having to normalise relations with Israel , as the latter is unwilling to meet the Saudi demand for practical steps toward establishing a Palestinian state with eastern Jerusalem as its capital . It would reduce cooperation with the US to joint regional military exercises , broader than what currently takes place , and assist Saudi Arabia in fields like cybersecurity , artificial intelligence and drone defense capabilities . <p> Each of these two agreements has a different American approval process . The smaller deal would likely not require congressional approval , and Biden could proceed with it as he did with the security agreement with Bahrain ( announced in September 2023 ) under his executive powers or by declaring Saudi Arabia a major non-NATO ally . <p> If Biden tries to push for a smaller deal through Congress , he will encounter difficulties due to the absence of normalisation with Israel . However , a larger deal would require congressional approval in any case . <p> From Saudi Arabia 's perspective , the smaller agreement is not optimal , as it does not guarantee full US protection if Saudi Arabia is attacked . A full , formal defense agreement approved by Congress would , in theory , also bind the next president , Trump . Therefore , Saudi Arabia 's inclination right now is to wait for him rather than take a step that might offend him . <p> On the other hand , the Saudis remember their frustrations with Trump , who did nothing in 2019 when Houthi rebels overcame Saudi Arabia 's air defense systems . The Houthis caused significant damage to Aramco 's oil facilities in Abqaiq , using dozens of Iranian drones and missiles launched from Yemen . <p> Saudi Arabia fears a similar retaliatory attack , following Israel 's damaging strike on Hodeidah Port in Yemen last September . According to foreign reports , which Saudi Arabia has denied , Israeli jets flew through Saudi airspace during that attack . <p> The latest indication about the timing and direction Saudi Arabia will choose -- a larger or smaller deal -- came during an investment conference in Riyadh , where Saudi Foreign Minister Faisal bin Farhan Al Saud participated . <p> Prince Faisal made it clear that his country would not recognise Israel without the establishment of a Palestinian state . On this issue , he explained , Saudi Arabia is patient : It will proceed with the US in areas like trade and artificial intelligence , " areas not related to third parties , " which can move quickly , while defense cooperation is more complicated . <p> Meanwhile , at least until Trump takes office , Saudi Arabia is taking precautions against Iran , though not in ways that Israel or the U.S. would approve . Riyadh is getting closer to both Iran and Russia . This is not an ideological shift toward Shia ideology or the clerics in Tehran , but rather about interests . <p> The Saudis believe this is currently the safer path to prevent Iran or its proxies from attacking them ; safer than what they could expect from the outgoing Biden administration , which they have difficulty trusting . <p> In the spirit of this rapprochement with Iran , Crown Prince Mohammed , who only a little over a year ago declared that " normalisation with Israel is not a question of ' if ' but ' when , ' " now says Israel is committing genocide in Gaza . He even instructed his UN delegation to vote in favour of granting full membership to the Palestinians . <p> As part of the security network Saudi Arabia has set up against its real enemy -- Iran -- foreign ministers from both countries have already met ; the Saudi and Iranian military chiefs of staff have held talks , and the countries participated in a joint naval drill . <p> A US official close to Trump 's administration believes this is a temporary , tactical collaboration , and certainly not fundamental . " When circumstances change , and that will happen soon , " the official says , " Saudi Arabia will make its choice again . The ceasefire deal in Lebanon and the deal Trump wants Israel to secure before entering the White House , also with Hamas in the south , will be a major catalyst for such a change . "
