<p> Hello . It looks like you 're using an ad blocker that may prevent our website from working properly . To receive the best experience possible , please make sure any ad blockers are switched off , or add https : **25;2246;TOOLONG to your trusted sites , and refresh the page . <p> An explosion high in the sky , an object at first just a silver dot comes into view , floating to earth on a parachute , landing with a thud and a cloud of dust . <p> It 's a capsule from a spacecraft . There is a rush to open the hatch , and out step three cosmonauts . <p> " My heart gave a skip when I saw that in a TV documentary , " says photographer Andrew McConnell . " It was 2014 and I had just returned from filming the conflict in Gaza , where I had witnessed the very worst of humanity , yet here were humans working together and achieving the seemingly impossible . I resolved to go and see it for myself . " <p> The result was a collection of photographs in his book Some Worlds Have Two Suns . But the result was not what he intended . <p> Cosmonauts had been blasted into space from a launch pad in Kazakhstan regularly since 1967 to work in the International Space Station . Three months later they would return to Earth in the tiny capsule , a mere 2.2 metres long and just as wide at its maximum , bumping down on the same few square miles of the country 's bleak steppes . <p> McConnell 's plan was to photograph the faces of the cosmonauts , to take portraits that captured the drama they must have felt working on the space station , to reveal the high emotion that such an adventure aroused . Surely their faces would tell their own story of courage , determination , even bravado , which would reflect the quixotic fact that they had briefly inhabited two worlds . <p> He quickly discovered just how mundane space travel could be , at least as far as the cosmonauts were concerned . " They land , they are taken out , plopped down on a chair , handed a phone to call home , given a hat and sunglasses to protect their eyes , and then sort of sit there smiling with blank expressions while the press and the space organisations fuss around . <p> " The fact is , " he laughs , " when you 've seen one astronaut , you 've seen them all . " <p> While he pondered what to do , a group of villagers from the nearest community came by . He turned his camera towards them and soon found they were more interesting than the cosmonauts . What seemed to him at first to be a " boundless void " was crowded with " unexpected details " . <p> He was to make many trips to the region between 2015 and 2023 , often staying in the same village , getting to know the people , their nomadic heritage and their mysteries , which helps to explain why the first image in the book is not of a cosmonaut but of an old man standing in a snowy waste , stick in hand , hat and overcoat tightly bound by a broad belt . Behind him , the steppe seems to go on for ever , featureless apart from a strip of trees on the horizon separating the dirty white land from the slate of the sky . You can feel the cold . <p> Turn the page to find a track lined with walls of snow that have been thrown up by the plough as it cleared the way through . A solitary bird perching on a lump of ice emphasises the sheer emptiness of it all . We see a dog ambling through a cemetery towards a distant horizon , made all the more desolate because the snow is grey . It has been polluted by emissions from the nearby steelworks -- pictured on another page in all its industrial monstrosity -- which blacken the snow as they fall . <p> But the comfortless mood is cheered by a man standing proudly in his modest kitchen next to a table laden with cakes and bread ; a lady in the colourful garb of the region poses awkwardly in her home ; lads cavort in a river in the summer , when the glum monotone of winter is replaced by green fields and blue skies . <p> But McConnell challenges our perceptions by changing tack . He transports us to a landscape littered with the flotsam and jetsam of space travel , nose cones and abandoned bits of metal . He reminds us what his project was intended to be about with a rocket menacingly poised on the launch pad preparing to take its three passengers into space . <p> With such contrasting images it 's hard to nail down a theme . Apart from a brief statement at the end of the book by the photographer himself there is no attempt to provide a context , no picture captions , not even page numbers . McConnell says : " As a press photographer I was always trying to explain everything to the viewer . Here I 'd rather they experience it for themselves , bring their own ideas to it . " <p> What is evident is that the bits and bobs of redundant space machinery play only a small part in McConnell 's observations of this remote world . A boy in a balaclava and a red coat plays in the yard of his home with his sister . His home is simple , made of concrete with a tin roof and boasting a huge TV satellite dish . In the yard alongside crates of empty bottles is a nose cone from a capsule . Its use ? As a coal store . <p> In another scene , a girl balances on a discarded shard of spaceware while making a fence with a sheet of fibreglass from an abandoned capsule . <p> A young lad in grubby anorak and trousers sits rather defiantly on a begrimed armchair surrounded by the detritus of a landfill site . Smoke rises gently by his feet , caused by the permanent fires of rubbish that burn just below the surface . It 's reminiscent of the smoke that billows out at a rocket launch just before take off . <p> McConnell contrasts a sports hall shaped like an enormous yurt , in which players plan tactics for a football match , with a table of food ( for no obvious reason other than the delicious symmetry of the fare on display ) and with horses trotting in the snow in search of feed past eerily abandoned flats . Two venerable sisters , maybe twins , in similar red coats and gay headgear stand hand in hand . <p> He is keen to point out the bird 's nest with four perfect eggs and the tumbleweed he found in a deserted home , shaped in a strangely beautiful filigree . " Nature at its most sublime is a wondrous thing , " he muses . <p> The longer he spent in the area , the more he came to understand that the people were not terribly interested in the space travellers but were nonetheless connected to the " strange ritual " of the landings . He chanced on a family group gathered on a rock , apparently in prayer or some ancient ritual , and as he photographed the scene the sense of connection between such earthly devotions and the distant world visited by the space travellers was palpable to him . <p> Again , he found something mystical about the time he was camping in the shadow of ancient tombs when a Soyuz landed nearby . Was it too fanciful to compare the cone-like structure of the tombs with the capsule ? <p> While he pondered that , out of the mist rode two men on horseback , drawn , perhaps , to that very spot by the ritual of the intergalactic ferry service . <p> " I wanted to reflect the idea of being on the threshold of our world and that other world up there , " says McConnell . " These descendants of nomads are once again on the edge of a new horizon . " <p> Some Worlds Have Two Suns by Andrew McConnell is published by Gost , ? 60 <p> Hello . It looks like you 're using an ad blocker that may prevent our website from working properly . To receive the best experience possible , please make sure any ad blockers are switched off , or add https : **25;2273;TOOLONG to your trusted sites , and refresh the page .
