<h> Biden administration races to secure a ceasefire in Gaza with Trump 's backing <p> Palestinians inspect damage at the site of an Israeli strike on a house at the Nuseirat refugee camp in the central Gaza Strip on December 7 , 2024 . <p> Ramadan Abed/Reuters <p> CNN -- <p> The Biden White House is working increasingly closely with officials from the incoming administration as it races to try to reach a ceasefire and hostage deal to halt the war in Gaza between Israel and Hamas before Donald Trump is inaugurated on January 20 , according to multiple people familiar with the discussions . <p> Not only would the Biden White House like to finally reach a ceasefire in its final weeks in office , but Trump 's desire to start his second term with both the Lebanon and Gaza conflicts wrapped up and the hostages held by Hamas released has breathed new life into a framework that collapsed several months ago . <p> Five sources familiar with the conversations said there has been close coordination , with Trump 's team being kept apprised of the sensitive and painstaking work by Joe Biden 's administration . <p> The primary efforts are still being guided by Biden 's team and the two officials driving the ceasefire deal , CIA Director Bill Burns and the White House 's Brett McGurk . Their counterpart in the Trump camp is Steve Witkoff , Trump 's recently named Middle East envoy . <p> Witkoff visited both Israel and Qatar at the end of November , two sources familiar with his travel said . In his meeting with the Qatari prime minister , a principal mediator of the talks , they discussed the war in Gaza and the potential for a ceasefire deal . <p> In a social media post last week , Trump proclaimed that he wanted the hostages to be released by the time he takes office , warning that otherwise : " There will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against humanity . " <p> During a bitcoin conference in Abu Dhabi , Witkoff echoed his boss , telling Reuters : " Listen to what the president has got to say . It 's not a pretty day if they 're not released . " <p> Secretary of State Antony Blinken even sought to spin Trump 's bellicose warning , also telling Reuters that the president-elect 's post was " a powerful reflection of the fact that we as Americans are determined to get the hostages back . " <p> " I think that 's a strong position across parties held by the United States , and we 're going to pursue every avenue we can in the time that we have left to try to get the hostages back and to get a ceasefire , " he added . " And I think the president-elect 's statement reinforces that . " <h> Biden officials have welcomed Trump 's support <p> Despite sharp policy differences between Biden and Trump on countless issues , current administration officials have welcomed the president-elect 's support rather than seeing conflict in the work to try to support a hostage deal . <p> " Both the outgoing and incoming teams are in constant touch , so there will be a smooth transition , " national security adviser Jake Sullivan said Monday on CBS , adding that he spent " considerable time " briefing his expected successor , Rep. Mike Waltz , on Syria over the weekend . <p> Trump has bucked speculation that he might prefer to see the end of the 14-month war on his watch , surprising some who thought that might mean more credit for the 47th president . <p> " He 's still going to want to take the credit , he 's still going to take the win , " said a source familiar with Trump 's thinking . " But he 's going to get credit for maintaining the ceasefire . " <p> Witkoff did not respond to a request for comment . CNN has reached out to the Trump transition team . <p> A year since the last truce in Gaza fell apart , participants in the talks are clear on their efforts but sober about their likelihood of success . <p> " I 'm not going to sit here and describe the intricacies of the negotiations in public , but we very much believe a ceasefire is possible , " said Jon Finer , Biden 's deputy national security adviser , said on CNN on Monday . " It 's a huge priority of this administration to try to achieve one . " <p> The other principal Middle East adviser Trump has named , Massad Boulos , said recently that the war is " practically over " and that only the question of a hostage deal remains , which should happen " immediately " and not be linked to any " day-after " plans . <p> " There might be some disagreement on certain Palestinians to be released in the deal , but apart from that the two camps have agreed on the broad outlines of an agreement , " Boulos told French outlet Le Point . <p> The flurry of contact and travel by Biden and Trump officials will soon include a trip by Sullivan to Israel this week for talks on a range of issues , including Gaza . He follows James Rubin , a top deputy to Blinken , who visited Jerusalem last week . <h> Trump officials engaging with Israelis <p> Key members of Trump 's national security team -- and the president-elect himself -- have also been engaged with members of the Israeli government , including Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . Incoming national security adviser Waltz recently met in Washington with Netanyahu 's closest aide , Ron Dermer , according to one source familiar with the meeting . <p> Hamas and other groups are believed to be holding 100 hostages in Gaza -- all but four of whom were captured on October 7 , 2023 . Around half are believed to still be alive , according to people familiar with the intelligence . <p> The framework again under discussion reflects earlier efforts spearheaded by the Biden administration , Qatar and Egypt , in which a first " humanitarian " phase would see the remaining female , elderly and wounded hostages be released in exchange for hundreds of Palestinian prisoners . <p> Turkey is now involved in the discussions since Qatar closed the Hamas political office in Doha and much of the negotiating team decamped to Turkey , according to a diplomat involved in the talks . <p> A major sticking point in the discussions was Hamas ' insistence there would be no ceasefire without up-front guarantees that Israel would end the war altogether , which Netanyahu has refused to do . Hamas had backed off that requirement before talks fell apart , and it 's unclear where it stands , particularly in the wake of Israel 's killing of the group 's leader , Yahya Sinwar . <p> A source familiar with the negotiations told CNN that Israel is seeing more flexibility from Hamas and that Qatar is applying more pressure on the Gaza-based militant group as Doha looks to get into Trump 's good graces ahead of his inauguration . <p> " Indirect negotiations are underway . We can be more optimistic than before -- but we are not there yet . I hope we will be there , " Israeli Foreign Minister Gideon Sa'ar said Monday . <p> Trump has named Adam Boehler , who worked in his first administration and who is a college friend of his son-in-law Jared Kushner , to serve as his top official for hostage affairs . <p> A former national security official who worked in the president-elect 's first administration said they expect Boehler to take on a more active role in the Gaza negotiations than the office under Biden , which is called SPEHA . <p> Ruby Chen , whose son Itay Chen was taken hostage and later confirmed to have been killed on October 7 , told CNN he hopes Boehler 's selection " gives him the mandate to succeed in our case . " <p> " SPEHA can dedicate 100% of their time " to US hostages , Ruby Chen said , noting that the office " has congressional approval to actually have dialect conversations with terrorist organizations . " <p> " So there might be a place for SPEHA Adam Boehler to actually take the lead in having direct conversations with Hamas to discuss the release of the hostages in the new administration , " he said .
