<p> Frida Ghitis is a world affairs columnist . She is a CNN contributor , the senior columnist at World Politics Review and a contributing columnist for the Washington Post . <p> No one would accuse Hamas leaders of being the first to make a strategic miscalculation of epic proportions in the Middle East . After all , from Napoleon to former U.S. President George W. Bush , the region 's history is strewn with the calling cards of leaders whose ambitions turned to disaster . <p> Even so , the collapse of Syria 's Assad family dynasty -- a more than half-century-old enterprise of brutality , repression and corruption -- places Hamas ' plans to reshape the Middle East in firm contention for the title of ( to paraphrase another contender , Iraq 's former dictator Saddam Hussein ) the Mother of all Miscalculations . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Hamas did mean to cause regional upheaval . But surely , the last thing it wanted was to trigger the unraveling of the so-called " Axis of Resistance , " Israel 's encirclement engineered by Iran . Yet that 's exactly what it did . <p> Shortly after the Oct. 7 rampage -- or the " big project " as Hamas called it -- one of its leaders explained to the New York Times that the goal was to " change the entire equation and not just have a clash " with Israel . And indeed , the entire equation has now changed , just not in the way Hamas intended . <p> Obtained by news organizations , detailed minutes of the militant group 's planning meetings describe the deliberations that took place during its secret stages . Later dubbed the " Al-Aqsa Flood , " the plan aimed to bring in Iran 's network of proxies , along with Palestinians across Israel , the West Bank and other Arab countries , to start a renewed perennial war against Israel . <p> Hezbollah , the Iranian proxy that had become the most powerful player in Lebanon and a crucial element in Iran 's international network , provided Hamas with support in this , although it seemed less than wholehearted . Even so , it ended up costing Hezbollah dearly , just as it later did Syrian dictator Bashar Assad . <p> The documents also show a perfunctory comment by Yahya Sinwar , the group 's then leader in the enclave , saying ordinary Gazans would face sacrifices . Similarly , in a television interview , exiled Hamas leader Ghazi Hamad explained that Palestinians are " proud to sacrifice martyrs . " And unsurprisingly , the only part of Hamas ' project that unfolded as expected was the calamity that befell the Palestinians of Gaza . <p> Initially , however , the operation succeeded beyond Sinwar 's wildest dreams . Oct. 7 was a catastrophe for Israel , the deadliest day since the Holocaust for the Jewish people . And Israel has undoubtedly paid a high price in diplomacy and reputation in the wake of its ferocious response to the attack . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> And yet , Hamas ' decision resulted in much greater devastation -- human , strategic and political -- to its own side . <p> Israel 's furious counterattack has left Gaza in ruins and crushed Hamas into a faint remnant of its former self . And the tsunami triggered by Oct. 7 has n't stopped sweeping the region since . <p> Yahya Sinwar was killed in Gaza two months ago , shortly after the group 's exiled leader Ismail Haniyeh was assassinated in the stunning explosion of an Iranian government guesthouse in Tehran . Mahmud Hams/Getty Images <p> A few days after the attacks , Hamas military chief Mohammed Deif urged Palestinians in Jerusalem , Jaffa , Haifa and across the West Bank to join in the fight , telling them to " kill , burn , destroy ... " But no such uprising occurred , and Deif himself was killed by Israel last summer -- as were most of Hamas ' leaders , including Sinwar , the mastermind of the attack . <p> Sinwar was killed in Gaza two months ago , shortly after the group 's exiled leader Ismail Haniyeh was assassinated in the stunning explosion of an Iranian government guesthouse in Tehran . Only hours earlier , at the inauguration of the Islamic Republic 's new President Masoud Pezeshkian , the two had clasped their hands in the air , conspicuously reaffirming their partnership . But by then , Iran 's dominance over several Arab countries was already facing disaster . <p> In solidarity with Hamas , Hezbollah chief Hassan Nasrallah had started launching rockets at Israel on Oct. 8 , vowing keep going as long as the war continued . Israel , meanwhile , demanded an end to the bombing so that tens of thousands of displaced Israelis could return to their homes . Then , one day in mid-September 2024 , in an operation that seemed like crude science fiction , the pagers of Hezbollah fighters started exploding , maiming hundreds across Lebanon . Their walkie-talkies blew up next . <p> It was n't just Hezbollah 's equipment that was infiltrated either . Day after day , Israel bombed the meeting places of the Shiite militia 's top echelons . And on Sept. 27 , an Israeli strike in Beirut killed Nasrallah , the man who had led Hezbollah for more than 30 years . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Under Nasrallah 's leadership , and later with Russia 's support , Hezbollah had saved Assad from his own people in a raging civil war . He had worked to establish pro-Iran militias in Iraq , build the Houthis in Yemen and , above all , turned his group into one of the most important component of Iran 's anti-Israel strategy . The mightiest of Tehran 's proxies , the group seemingly guaranteed that if Israel tried to destroy Iran 's nuclear installations , its vast arsenal could be unleashed against the Jewish state . <p> But Israel killed Nasrallah , followed by his presumed successor Hashem Safieddine and then , among other top leaders , Hezbollah 's military commander Ibrahim Akil , who was wanted by the U.S. in connection with the 1983 bombing of its Beirut embassy . Hezbollah 's top echelons were essentially destroyed , along with much of its deadly arsenal . <p> So , with thousands of Hezbollah fighters injured or dead , the group 's leadership decimated , and Russia -- Assad 's other patron -- tangled up in another conflict , unlikely to forcefully come to his aide , rebels in Syria saw their moment . <p> There was no one left to defend Assad , and the offensive took less than two weeks . The Syrian leader had to flee , and the Alawite regime he inherited -- built by his father Hafez Assad more than 50 years ago -- quickly crumbled . <p> Who could have imagined that the Oct. 7 attacks would end in the collapse of the Assad regime , the death of Nasrallah , the defanging ( at least for now ) of Hezbollah , the collapse of much of Iran 's ability to project power across the Middle East and the humiliation of Russia as its prot ? g ? became a political refugee and Moscow 's ability to project power in the region was crippled ? <p> Alas , nobody knows what 's next for the region . Nerves are on edge . It 's too soon for anyone to confidently declare anything like a lasting victory . The aftermath of Hamas ' monumental miscalculation is yet another Middle East lesson in the law of unexpected consequences .
