<p> A Labour MP heckled Jeremy Corbyn during a parliamentary debate on Syria on Monday evening , demanding he " apologise " as the former Labour leader failed to condemn Assad but criticised Israel instead . <p> David Taylor , who represents Hemel Hempstead , chanted " no apology then " , and " apologise " during a fractious session in the House . <p> Corbyn did not mention former Syrian despot Bashar al-Assad in his intervention in the House of Commons , but spoke generally of the " horrors of war , torture and imprisonment " . <p> Instead , the independent MP for Islington North asked whether Foreign Secretary David Lammy was " satisfied that Israel will withdraw immediately from the area that it has illegally occupied over the past couple of days , just north of the already illegally occupied Golan heights ? " <p> He also asked about the presence of Turkish troops in northern Syria . <p> Although not clearly picked up by either the television microphones or the Deputy Speaker in the chair , Taylor confirmed that he heckled Corbyn to the JC . <p> He added : " It 's well-documented that Corbyn and co spent more energy casting doubt on whether chemical weapons were being used than on ways to protect civilians . I 'm glad our party has moved on from this period . " <p> He continued : " What 's crucial now is that Syrian voices are at the forefront of our approach going forward , and I 'm confident they are , particularly with the ? 300m increase in funding for the White Helmets announced by the Labour Government last week . I hope we can find a political solution for a free Syria and the international community steps up to help with the humanitarian situation and reconstruction . " <p> In 2016 , human rights activists , including Peter Tatchell , disrupted a speech given by Corbyn to demand he do more to condemn Assad and Russia 's role in the conflict in Syria . <p> In 2018 , he refused to blame President Assad for a chemical weapons attack that killed civilians . <p> Assad 's regime of tyranny is exemplified by the horrific scenes from Sednaya prison , where even children have been subject to the most abhorrent acts imaginable . <p> In his own intervention in the debate yesterday , Taylor attacked " some Members of this House " for " the denial and downplaying of Assad 's crimes over the years " . <p> He shared " the delight of my Syrian friends that Assad has gone " adding , " I only wish that the world had acted to support the Syrian people sooner , and that our dear friend Jo Cox was around to see this . " <p> Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad was compared to an escaping rat by Foreign Secretary David Lammy , who told MPs : " There were those who used to call Assad ' the lion of Damascus . ' Now we see the reality : Assad is the rat of Damascus , fleeing to Moscow with his tail between his legs . How fitting he should end up there . We see streets of Syrians cheering his demise , tearing down his statutes and re-uniting with loved ones who had been disappeared . " <p> The Foreign Secretary added that : " Assad 's demise is not just a humiliation for him and his henchman ; it is a humiliation for Russia and Iran . Iran 's so-called axis of resistance is crumbling before our eyes , and all Vladimir Putin has got from his attempt to prop up Assad for more than a decade is a fallen dictator filing for asylum in Moscow . " <p> Lammy went on to say that " with events moving so quickly , the government have been taking every available opportunity to underline our priorities " and had spoken to regional allies , including Israel 's Foreign Minister Gideon Sa'ar over the weekend . <p> On Sunday night , Sa'ar posted on X that he and Lammy had " discussed the dramatic developments in Syria , the need to protect its minorities and the security ramifications for Israel . We also discussed the ceasefire in Lebanon , The situation in Gaza and the opportunity to achieve a hostage deal . " <p> I spoke tonight with my counterpart , UK Foreign Secretary David Lammy @FCDOGovUK . We discussed the dramatic developments in Syria , the need to protect its minorities and the security ramifications for Israel . We also discussed the ceasefire in Lebanon , The situation in Gaza and ... <p> Back in the Commons , another left-wing MP also used the statement on Syria to criticise Israel . <p> Labour MP Kim Johnson , who , like Corbyn , did n't mention Assad in her intervention , followed up on the former Labour leader 's questions by asking " what will happen if the Israelis decide that it ( their incursion into Syria ) is not temporary " , to which the Foreign Secretary responded " My honourable Friend rightly says that that territory is illegally occupied . I confirm from the Dispatch Box that , as has been the case under successive Governments , the UK assessment is that it is occupied land . " <p> Speaking to reporters on Monday afternoon , asked about reports of an Israeli strike on Syrian chemical weapons facilities , a Downing Street spokesperson said : " it is a priority for all of our allies to ensure that all parties respect international law , including the chemical weapons convention , and any use of chemical weapons would be unacceptable . " They added that there was " a UN-led process around chemical weapons . " <p> The continued : " Israel has been very clear that their actions in the in the buffer zone has been defensive , limited and temporary , and more generally , our position is that we focused on a political solution and peace and stability in the region . "
