<p> For years , residents of Ghouta , an embattled opposition-held region on the outskirts of Damascus , grew used to death loudly announcing its presence . When Syrian and Russian jets or helicopter gunships roared overhead , bombs were never far behind . But the night of 7 April 2018 was different . <p> According to an extensive investigation by the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons ( OPCW ) , two yellow cylinders were dropped from a Syrian air force helicopter , crashing through the top floor of one apartment building and landing on a balcony of another , in the eastern Ghouta town of Douma . The noise they made was negligible compared with the explosions of barrel bombs and airstrikes . But the concentrated green-yellow chlorine gas that hissed out of the canisters was no less deadly . <p> In air raids during the five-year-long siege of the town , the people of Douma usually sought shelter in basements . Chlorine is not as dangerous as sarin -- a nerve agent that deposed president Bashar al-Assad deployed against civilians on several occasions in the 13-year civil war . But because chlorine is heavier than air , it sank down through the storeys and street-level gratings into two basements . At least 43 people choked to death , their blistered bodies blue and black when civil defence workers bought the corpses out to the street . <p> We can escape the bullets and the tanks , but chemicals travel through the air . We were afraid <p> Abdulhadi Sariel , Douma resident <p> Hamad Shukri , now 16 , was 10 when the attack happened one street over from his home . In photographs taken at the time , he can be seen cradling his distressed baby brother , holding an oxygen mask to the infant 's face in a makeshift hospital that treated about 100 survivors still struggling to breathe . <p> " I remember it very well because there was no explosion , only gas . The adults were throwing water on everyone to try and wash the chemical off , " he said . " I did n't understand what was happening . I just knew that people were dead . " <p> The last rebel group fighting in Douma surrendered to the regime the next day . For six years , afraid of reprisals , the town had grieved in silence for loved ones lost to chemical attacks and countless others killed by conventional weapons . But after an astonishing and rapid offensive by rebel forces led by the Islamist group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , more than 50 years of Assad family rule collapsed last week , when the dictator fled to Russia rather than mount a final defence of the capital , Damascus . <p> ' I did n't understand what was happening . I just knew people were dead ' : Hamad Shukri , 16 , was 10 when the attack happened . Photograph : David Lombeida/The Observer <p> After decades of repression in one of the most oppressive police states in the world , Syrians are finally free to tell their stories , and Assad 's repeated use of chemical warfare against his own people can no longer be ignored , covered up or denied . <p> Tawfiq Diab , 79 , lost his wife , Hanan , and his four children , aged between eight and 12 -- Mohammed , Ali , Qamar and Joudy -- in the chlorine attack , and barely survived himself . He did not know that his family -- along with his brother and sister-in-law and their seven children , an uncle , and 30 neighbours -- had been killed until he regained consciousness in hospital 10 days later . To this day , he is still not even sure where their bodies were taken by regime forces . <p> " After I was awake I started asking questions but police came and told me ' do n't ask about them ' , " he said . " I was arrested and spent a week at the police station . They told me ' we will cut off your tongue ' if you speak . <p> " We were silenced against our will ... Now we can talk . " <p> Abdulhadi Sariel , 64 , lived on the opposite side of the street from where the chlorine cylinders landed , and said his family had survived because they stayed on a higher floor . One of his daughters still has respiratory problems as a result of the attack , he said . <p> " No one in that basement came out alive . Their bodies turned to black , their clothes went green and were burnt , they crumbled and stuck to their bodies . The clothes looked like wood , " he said . " We threw out all of our clothes but you can still see the effect on the curtains . <p> " We can escape the bullets and the tanks , but chemicals travel through the air . We were afraid , children were afraid . " <p> When the Syrian government allowed OPCW investigators to visit Douma a few weeks later , Diab , Sariel and many other survivors said they had been warned to tell the visitors that people had died from inhaling smoke and dust , not chemicals . " The commanders said ' if you say a word other than what we tell you , we will kill you ' . But I always kept the curtains as evidence for this moment , when the truth would come out , " Sariel said . <p> Hamad Shukri , aged 10 , helping his baby brother to breathe in the aftermath of the attack . Photograph : Hasan Mohamed/AFP/Getty Images <p> Syria spiralled into a devastating war after the regime cracked down on peaceful pro-democracy Arab spring protests , spawning the worst refugee crisis since the second world war and the rise of Islamic State . At least 300,000 people have been killed and 100,000 have gone missing since 2011 -- most thought to have disappeared into the regime 's notorious prison system . <p> Since Assad 's downfall , fighting has continued between Turkish-backed Arab rebels and US-backed Kurdish-led forces across Syria 's north , and Israel has launched a huge bombing campaign aimed at destroying the regime 's conventional and chemical weapons stocks . <p> Assad agreed to destroy his chemical arsenal in 2013 after international outrage over a sarin attack on another neighbourhood of Ghouta that killed hundreds of people . However , chlorine was used to attack rebel-held areas dozens of times afterwards , and sarin several times , in attacks likely to have been carried out by the regime , according to Human Rights Watch . <p> The Syrian government denied ever using chemical weapons , claiming that the attacks had never happened or that rebel groups had staged them . Russian-driven disinformation campaigns and conspiracy theories have insulted victims and obstructed the pursuit of justice , with Moscow repeatedly using its veto as a permanent member of the UN security council to delay or block investigations or set up a special international criminal court tribunal for Syria . <p> Chemical weapons were just one of the horrors Assad unleashed on his own people . Much of Ghouta was reduced to rubble by airstrikes and barrel bombs , and after enduring years of siege , most civilians fled to the rebel-held north west as their neighbourhoods fell one by one . Today , viewed from the highway , the scale of the destruction is akin to that caused by Israel 's war on the Gaza Strip ; abandoned concrete husks , home to nothing but dust and ghosts . <p> In recent years , the international community had quietly accepted that Syria 's war was all but over : about 3 million people who fled the regime were trapped in a pocket of the north west of the country , but the frontlines had grown cold since a ceasefire in 2020 . <p> Assad was slowly being rehabilitated : last year , Syria was welcomed back to the Arab League , and several western countries , keen to send refugees home , made moves to restore diplomatic relations . The US , which had long held a firm line on sanctions and Assad 's political isolation , also concluded that it would no longer " stand in the way " of reconciliation efforts . <p> Many Syrians had despaired of the regime ever being held accountable for its crimes . Formidable challenges lie ahead in the wake of Assad 's departure , but dreams of justice , freedom and a fairer society are no longer just fantasy . <p> In Douma on Friday afternoon , chairs had been put out on the unpaved street , a sound system was blasting Egyptian pop music , and traditional wedding dancers were getting ready for the evening 's celebrations . " We continued our lives , we kept going , day by day , " said Diab , who lost his family in the 2018 chlorine attack . " Now liberation has arrived . "
