<h> The new carve-up of the Middle East will not bring peace <p> NEWSLETTER ( ? ) Whoever rules Syria in future will be in charge of a much-degraded state <p> December 14 , 2024 7:00 am ( Updated 9:39 am ) <p> An Israeli flag on the top of a hill near the so-called Alpha Line that separates the Israeli-controlled Golan Heights from Syria , in the town of Majdal Shams ( Photo : Matias Delacroix/AP ) <p> cancel **31;736;TOOLONG Share bookmark Save <p> share cancel **34;769;TOOLONG <p> This is Dispatches with Patrick Cockburn , a subscriber-only newsletter from i . If you 'd like to get this direct to your inbox , every single week , you can sign up here . <p> Mystery surrounds some of the final steps that led to the overthrow of Bashar al-Assad , but there is no doubting the giant importance of his fall for the Middle East and the world . <p> The Israeli Prime Minister , Benjamin Netanyahu , said : " Something tectonic has happened here , an earthquake that has n't happened in the 100 years since the Sykes-Picot Agreement . " <p> Netanyahu commonly exaggerates Israel 's achievements and his own role in them . But he is correct about the seismic political changes under way following the collapse of the Syrian state and to compare them to the Sykes-Picot Agreement in 1916 , when the UK and France agreed to carve up the Ottoman Empire . <p> We are now seeing a new carve-up , as Netanyahu last week ordered the Israel Defence Forces ( IDF ) to advance in the Golan Heights , seizing part of the demilitarised zone formerly held by the Syrian army . <h> Winners and losers <p> The IDF captured a piece of Mount Hermon , from the top of which it is possible to see Damascus 40 miles away . At the same time , some 300 Israeli air strikes destroyed Syria 's military infrastructure , according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights . <p> At first sight , the list of winners and losers looks simple enough . Russia and Iran have lost out as outside powers ; the Palestinians , Hezbollah and Shia Muslims have been defeated within the region ; Greater Israel and Greater Turkey are now the pre-eminent regional powers with enhanced clout ; and the US becomes sole hegemon as Russia loses a crucial ally in the Middle East . <h> Misplaced euphoria <p> The original Sykes-Picot agreement is not exactly a happy precedent , as it ushered in a century of oppression , autocracy and war . President Joe Biden , his Secretary of State , Antony Blinken , and his National Security Adviser , Jake Sullivan , were smirking this last week about defeating America 's chief enemies in the region . <p> But the present administration is handing president-elect Donald Trump a poisoned chalice in the shape of a Middle East in which the old order has dissolved but nobody can predict what will replace it . <p> Euphoria over the fall of Assad is similar to catastrophically misplaced jubilation over the fall of Saddam Hussein in Iraq in 2003 , and Muammar Gaddafi in Libya in 2011 . Both were dictators who did many bad things ( though Saddam was far worse than Gaddafi ) . But the biggest mistake was not to see that they were both the symptoms as well as the cause of what was dysfunctional in their countries . <h> Islamist regime <p> Just after the US capture of Baghdad in 2003 , I met an Iraqi brain surgeon in his hospital , where the nurses were all carrying Kalashnikovs to deter looters . He said to me : " The Americans should remember that Saddam was a real tough guy -- and he still had trouble ruling this country . " <p> The same is true of Syria . Both countries are a fascinating but lethal mosaic of rival communities , each with outside sponsors . The Sunni Arab majority is now taking over from the Alawites , a Shia Islamic sect to which the Assad family and most of the Syrian elite have belonged for half a century . <p> Along with other Syrian minorities , many are not going to wait around to see how the new Islamist regime in Damascus intends to treat them . " If you are going to run , run early " is an old Kurdish refugee adage . <h> Paused asylum applications <p> I had an example of this just as I was beginning to write this article when I received a message from a Syrian Christian acquaintance living in the UK , asking me if I had any advice for him about crossing the Lebanon-Syria border . He wanted to travel quickly to Damascus , where his parents have a house , and then smuggle them into Lebanon , where he believes they will be safe . <p> I also have a Syrian Kurdish friend who , after Turkish-backed Arab militias forced his parents to flee from their farm in northern Syria , is waiting in a European country for his asylum claim to be granted , after which he will bring over the rest of his family . <p> Tragically , many European states are now pausing asylum applications -- though for Syrian Kurds and Christians , the situation has got more , not less , dangerous . <h> A taste for violence <p> A problem is that many leaders are discovering that violence works . It has for Turkey in northern Syria . For Israel , scorched earth has become the default policy . Biden broke with traditional US policy by supporting Israel in seeking a military solution to all its problems . Trump is likely to be even more permissive and may possibly allow Netanyahu to expel Palestinians in Gaza into Egypt , or give US backing for an Israeli war with Iran . <h> Read Next <p> Those who succeed through violence swiftly get a taste for it . " Netanyahu wants to be remembered as the one who created Greater Israel , not just as a political schemer accused of corruption who abandoned 100 hostages in Gaza , " writes Aluf Benn in the Israeli newspaper Haaretz . " That 's why he 'll try to cement Israeli control in northern Gaza . That 's why he wo n't rush to withdraw from the newly occupied territories in the Golan . " <p> Israel is not the only country fast-expanding in the region . In many ways , it is easy to see why Assad 's regime collapsed . It always had a narrow sectarian Alawite base of support , it was corrupt and -- because of US economic sanctions and the loss of its oilfields to the Kurds -- it was broke . <p> Army officers were being paid $30 ( ? 25 ) and conscripted men $10 ( ? 8 ) a month . They survived by extorting money from civilians . Assad was blind to his own weakness and was caught by surprise by Israeli successes against his allies , Iran and Hezbollah , while Russia was preoccupied by war in Ukraine . <h> Blitzkrieg assault <p> The mystery is not so much the fragility of the Assad regime as the strength of the rebels who destroyed it . Their well-trained , well-armed units burst out of Idlib , the opposition enclave on the Turkish border on 27 November , and never stopped going until they reached Damascus . But Idlib was a much-bombed , deeply impoverished place , not unlike Gaza , with much of its population living in tents . Where did the resources for a well-organised military offensive come from ? <p> The most credible explanation for the blitzkrieg assault by the rebels is that they were trained by Turkey and paid by Qatar . This is the explanation of Steven Simon , a former senior US government official now at the Quincy Institute for Responsible Statecraft . <p> He sees what happened as " essentially a Turkish coup " , arguing that the Turks and Qataris have constituted an axis since the early days of the Syrian civil war in 2011 , and they have finally achieved their objective of overthrowing Assad . <p> Israel and Turkey have won impressive victories , but the struggle for Syria -- and the Middle East -- will go on . <h> Further Thoughts <p> The carve-up of Syria continues apace . I always liked the little Arab city of Manbij , a bustling place of 300,000 people not so far from Aleppo , but under Kurdish control . Just west of the Euphrates , it has done good business in recent years from its position on the front line between Syrian government territory and the great enclave controlled by the Kurdish-dominated Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) backed by the US in northeast Syria . <p> Crude oil from the oilfields controlled by the Kurds would travel in road tankers to a Homs oil refinery held by the government . Tankers carrying gasoline and other refined product would come the other way to supply the Kurds . <p> But on Monday the US told the Kurds to get out of Manbij in the face of an attack by the Turkish proxy Syrian National Army militia . If the SDF , operating under the guise of something called the Manbij Military Commission , did not do so , then the Pentagon would not use its airpower to protect them . The latter had no choice but to comply . Such is the chaos that the SDF accidently shot down a US drone , thinking it was Turkish . <h> Beneath the Radar <p> The belief that universities in the UK should be run like private businesses with students treated as customers was always likely to end in disaster . With their fees pinned at ? 9,250 a year rising to ? 9,535 in 2025/26 , this is too little to save universities from chronic deficits unless they can recruit foreign students whose fees are uncontrolled and far higher . <p> Though universities routinely express shock at the suggestion that they drop their standards to recruit as many Chinese , Indian and Nigerian students -- the main countries of origin for foreign students in the UK -- as possible , this is untrue . <p> Student recruitment agencies , whose profits depend on maximising recruit numbers , have a strong incentive to downplay or ignore inadequate English language ability . The universities become complicit in this cover-up when they likewise ignore complaints by their academic staff that many foreign students do not understand what they are being taught . <p> This has long been known to anybody associated with a university . A friend teaching at one leading UK university told me that his department had been about to fail a whole group of Chinese students , when university managers pleaded with them not to do so , because this might lead to the supply of Chinese students drying up , with a devastating impact on the university 's finances . The pleas worked and the students were given a basic pass . <p> This year , the head of one university told me that he thought " nothing would change until government ministers , senior civil servants and MPs find that the best and brightest of their children can not get a place at a good UK university because a foreigner got there first " . <p> Foreigners may also discover that they are not getting their money 's worth . An excellent BBC radio documentary interviewed an Iranian student who had been offered a course at one university at ? 50,000 a year , had accepted another at ? 16,000 , but then found that most of her class could not speak adequate English . <p> When she complained about this , the university simply offered to move her to a different course . Significantly , an academic who confirmed this collapse in standards had to do so anonymously and with an actor voicing his remarks -- in case his university might identify him as the whistleblower and take punitive action against him .
