<p> A website advertising jobs at the CCRC tells prospective candidates : " As a remote-first organisation the majority of our staff work from home , travelling to the office a couple of times a year on average . <p> " This means that you can work anywhere in the UK . " <h> CCRC leadership under pressure <p> The commission is currently hiring for a head of investigations , which the job description states will be " based at home " , with some required travel across the country . <p> Working from home is listed as one of the " benefits " a successful candidate can " look forward to " , with candidates told : " Remote working ( anywhere in the UK ) -- we will supply all the kit you need to work from home comfortably and safely . " <p> Mr Malkinson , who was released from prison in 2020 and only had his conviction quashed in July 2023 , twice applied for his case to be referred for appeal by the CCRC , but was turned down . <p> Following a review that found that Mr Malkinson had been " failed " by the commission , Shabana Mahmood , the Justice Secretary and Lord Chancellor , said that she was seeking to remove Helen Pitcher , the CCRC chairman . <p> It is understood that the decision over Ms Pitcher 's future is now in the hands of an independent panel , which will go on to make a recommendation on whether she should keep her position . <p> The commission has now been told to look back over all cases which have the " possibility of DNA opportunities " , with thousands expected to be reviewed . <p> Most appellants have already lost an appeal before the CCRC examines their case . However , if staff can uncover new evidence or failings in the conviction process , then the organisation may send the conviction back to the Court of Appeal . <p> Only an appeal court can ultimately decide if a conviction is unsafe . <h> ' Indicative of a broader problem ' <p> The commission , an independent public body funded by the Ministry of Justice ( MoJ ) receives about 1,500 applications for reviews each year . <p> It has referred about 3 per cent of applications to the appeal courts since it was founded . <p> Mr Jenrick said : " The CCRC handles the most sensitive cases . <p> " It is concerning that they are operating such a loose operating model , rarely even going into the office . <p> " This is indicative of a broader problem , with unconscionably long delays in our courts and the system not even operating at the capacity the Lady Chief Justice has said is available . " <p> It comes as MoJ figures showed on Thursday that court backlogs have risen to around 73,000 cases , which is nearly double the pre-pandemic number of 38,000 . <p> The Lady Chief Justice has previously criticised the Government 's decision not to fund crown courts to operate at maximum capacity . <p> A CCRC spokesman said : " We are a remote working organisation . Remote working allows us to recruit high-calibre staff from across the UK . <p> " Technology allows our staff to work safely , securely and effectively from home , and they are provided with the equipment they need to do this . <p> " A small number of staff work in our Birmingham office each day and others visit as needed . " <p> A pub landlord says he may be forced close his canal-side pub which has been in business since the 1850s due to a noise complaint from a single neighbour . The Rising Sun , in Berkhamsted , Hertforshire , UK is the ' last remaining Victorian alehouse ' built to service the Grand Union canal ' . But landlord Mark Granger , 57 , fears he may have to close the pub after a resident moved in and complained about the noise of regulars drinking at tables outside . In June last year the neighbour made a formal complaint to his local council which began an investigation . <p> Famed British cellist Sheku Kanneh-Mason , who became a household name after performing at the wedding of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle , has said he had to cancel a concert in Canada after the country 's largest airline denied his pre-booked seat for his cello . <p> Sean " Diddy " Combs is accused of sexually assaulting three men , including one of his former employees , who he allegedly plied with spiked alcoholic drinks , according to new civil lawsuits filed Thursday in New York . The lawsuits , filed by anonymous accusers , alleged a similar pattern of conduct by Combs between 2019 and 2022 . The assaults are alleged to have happened at New York City hotels and in East Hampton . <p> Prince Harry and Meghan Markle seem to be galloping away from any association with their new show about polo , after it was ridiculed by critics as a tin-eared foray into the " world 's stupidest sport . " Notably , there has been no visible promotion for the show , entitled , imaginatively enough , Polo ; no interviews or podcast episodes with Meghan or Harry have dropped , and records suggest there are no premieres or press events scheduled to support its launch earlier this week . It 's a grim turn of eve <p> China has repeatedly called for peace talks to resolve the Gaza war , sparked by an unprecedented Hamas attack in October 2023 to which Israel retaliated with a blistering attack on the Palestinian territory . But a video purportedly showing China 's Foreign Minister Wang Yi waiting for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to initiate a handshake has been edited -- the original footage from their meeting in December 2013 shows Wang was listening to a translator . There is no official record of <p> Ukraine , a global producer and exporter of grain and oilseeds , is ready to supply food to Syria following the fall of Bashar al-Assad , Ukrainian Agriculture Minister Vitaliy Koval told Reuters on Friday . Russian and Syrian sources said earlier that Russian wheat supplies to Syria had been suspended over uncertainty about the new government and payment delays . Syria imported food from Russia during the Assad era and it is unclear how relations between Damascus and Moscow will take shape under the new government . <p> Query : which of the uncle-nephew pair that is Prince Andrew and Prince Harry makes the heart sink faster and sooner ? The very words " close confidant of the Duke of York " on the news this morning made a nation think , " uh-oh " before we even learned that the confidant in question was a ) one of Andy 's inner circle and b ) associated with the Chinese Communist party and c ) is now excluded from the UK ( having lost his appeal in court against that judgment ) as a risk to national security . Another of the Duke 's little lapses of judgment , one of a series that began , I would say , with his marriage to Sarah Ferguson in 1986.
