<h> Follow us <h> Russia-Ukraine war : Can Trump finally end it ? <p> Biden 's recent decision to authorise the use of long-range missiles against Russian territory raises questions about Nato 's larger goals <p> Ukrainian army engineers are pictured along the frontline in the Donetsk region in October 2024 ( Press service of the 24th Mechanized Brigade Named After King Danylo/AFP ) <p> One of the first crucial testing grounds of President Donald Trump 's foreign policy will probably be the US relationship with Europe , and in particular , the new administration 's position on the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war . <p> During his campaign , Trump claimed he could end the war in Ukraine within 24 hours . It is curious , then , that in his first call with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky after winning the November election , he was assisted by Elon Musk , better known now as the " First Buddy " . <p> Due to his strong business interests in Tesla manufacturing , it would have been understandable if Musk had been involved in Trump 's first discussions with China , but not the Russia-Ukraine file ; Trump never stops surprising . <p> The incoming president has not , however , provided specific details as to how he would accomplish the complex task of ending the war in Ukraine and , as far as is known , no details emerged from the trilateral meeting arranged by French President Emmanuel Macron and Ukraine President Vladimir Zelensky , aside the solemn re-opening of Notre-Dame Cathedral . <p> There have been rumours of an internationally monitored ceasefire plan along the current battleground lines , which , in principle , would seem to accept Russian annexations . But as with every ceasefire agreement ( the recent Lebanon example proves it ) , the devil would be in the details . <h> New MEE newsletter : Jerusalem Dispatch <h> Sign up to get the latest insights and analysis on Israel-Palestine , alongside Turkey Unpacked and other MEE newsletters <p> Not only would it be unusually difficult to agree on the final track of an eventual ceasefire line in Ukraine , but it is also foreseeable that the mere selection of monitoring nations would be highly controversial , amid a total lack of trust among the parties involved . <p> This is not even to mention the bigger question mark : why would Russian President Vladimir Putin accept a deal now , when he is apparently winning on the ground , and the incoming US president - who has done nothing to conceal his intentions to throw Ukraine under the bus - is less than two months away from taking office ? <h> Losing ground <p> Unsurprisingly , among European and Ukrainian leaders , and throughout the US foreign policy and security establishment , there are fears that the new administration in Washington will hand the Ukrainian " hot potato " over to Europe , in order to better focus its own attention on more relevant theatres , such as East Asia ( the alleged China threat ) and the Middle East ( achieving peace in Gaza and Lebanon on Israel 's terms , with a possible further fatal blow inflicted on Iran ) . <p> The Europeans , after all , are in Trump 's view unforgivably responsible for not paying enough for their own defence . <p> Such fears are reinforced by an almost exhausted Ukrainian army , which is in the process of being slowly rolled back from the Kursk region and progressively losing ground in the Donbas . <p> This is occurring as Europe continues its slow and agonising descent into a dystopian perception of the world around it , and by consequence , into sheer irrelevance , or forced compliance to all the new US administration 's diktats . <p> If the composition of Trump 's foreign policy team is an index of what may come next , the markers are all highly concerning <p> After having established a long list of red lines on the use of some of its own weapons systems against Russia because of the inherent risks , and seeing them crossed one after another , the Biden administration recently crossed the last one by authorising the use of its Army Tactical Missile System ( Atacms ) against Russian territory . <p> President Joe Biden took this decision in the last weeks of his administration , after the American people had already voted Trump back into the White House . This is quite an unusual move for an exiting president during a transitional period . There are many possible explanations for such a choice , but a couple are most likely . <p> Firstly , this could be part of a " counter-insurgency " against Trump , aiming to corner him into continuing the war in eastern Europe , thus diverting the incoming president from his war on US institutions . The armchair warriors who are part of what Trump 's supporters call the " deep state " may even welcome an overreaction from Putin ( a mini-nuclear strike , or reprisals beyond Ukraine 's western border ? ) to escalate and lock in the conflict for years to come , irrespective of Trump 's wishes . <p> Secondly , it might have instead been agreed with Trump - who has remained curiously silent on Biden 's apparently reckless move - to give him better leverage ahead of possible forthcoming negotiations with Putin . <h> Neocon warmongers <p> There is not enough evidence yet to tip the scales in favour of one hypothesis or another . But if the composition of Trump 's foreign policy team is an index of what may come next , the markers are all highly concerning - because , with the notable exception of Tulsi Gabbard as his pick for director of national intelligence , Trump is stacking his team with declared neocon warmongers . <p> Trump 's real challenge in executing his foreign policy , in Ukraine and elsewhere , will hinge on whether he can finally dismantle decades of groupthink-shaped foreign policy decisions , built upon on the US systematically projecting its own mindset onto its foes by assuming they would play according to Washington 's script . <p> The damage that this approach has caused to the interests of the US and its unfortunate allies in recent decades will never be sufficiently appreciated . <p> In the case of Russia , the Atacms move could be a textbook case of mistakenly assuming that this added pressure will coerce Putin into caving in to some western demands , or push him towards a reckless reaction similarly functional to the western narrative . <p> Putin , who is not new to this type of game , has thus far not taken the bait . Instead , he has shown that he possesses further tools , short of the mini-nuclear strike imagined by some western planners , to deal with what in Moscow 's perception are stupid and dangerous western provocations . For the first time , Russia used a hypersonic medium-range missile against a facility in Ukraine , showing that it can accomplish devastating , targeted destruction without risking significant escalation . <p> If Nato had counted on a cornered Putin , it would do well to reconsider its options . In other words , as far as the Ukrainian file is concerned , the ball seems to be back in the West 's court . <p> As a final cherry on the cake , it should not be forgotten that , notwithstanding their huge military budgets , most Nato members have not yet grasped or developed hypersonic missile technology . Unsurprisingly , the incoming US administration might also be preparing a major audit of how the Pentagon has spent - or wasted - trillions of dollars in weapons procurement in recent decades . <p> It is probably time that everyone finally understands - and the hope is that Trump gets this notion , and awakens European sleepwalkers too - that the war in Ukraine will either be won by Russia , or lost by everybody . <p> Never has a quick and realistic negotiated solution been so direly needed , although -- at the same time -- it is highly uncertain if and how much the Syrian debacle will affect Vladimir Putin 's calculus and Donald Trump 's negotiating approach . <p> The views expressed in this article belong to the author and do not necessarily reflect the editorial policy of Middle East Eye . <p> Marco Carnelos is a former Italian diplomat . He has been assigned to Somalia , Australia and the United Nations . He served in the foreign policy staff of three Italian prime ministers between 1995 and 2011 . More recently he has been Middle East peace process coordinator special envoy for Syria for the Italian government and , until November 2017 , Italy 's ambassador to Iraq . <p> Middle East Eye delivers independent and unrivalled coverage and analysis of the Middle East , North Africa and beyond . To learn more about republishing this content and the associated fees , please fill out this form . More about MEE can be found here .
