<h> Revelling in a CEO 's killing is where phone obsession has taken us <h> We 've always slowed down to look at car crashes . But now there are a thousand a day to stare at <p> What does the story , breathlessly reported last week by the tabloids and dominating my social media feeds , of the OnlyFans model who slept with a hundred men in 24 hours tell us about the way we have sex now ? That 's what many people seemed to be asking , with the strong suggestion that the answer was : nothing good . <p> The actual answer is this : almost nothing . Trying to extrapolate from this episode to learn about the sex lives of you and me would be like trying to work out what doctors are like by looking at Harold Shipman . It does , however , tell us something about the way we pay attention now . <p> This is an important topic to consider . Today , attention is everything . Everyone is trying to get yours . Advertisers , musicians , television channels , The Sunday Times . Get people 's attention and you secure money , success , stability , a future . And in a world that is saturated with content -- dragging our attention every which way -- it 's clear what you must do if you want to stand out . You have to be extreme . <p> This is immediately obvious in the world of pornography . Habitual viewers ' brains are so flooded with explicit imagery that simple rutting just is n't going to cut it . To succeed , a piece of pornography has to have a thousand hideous bells and whistles , at least one stepsibling and a woman sleeping with a hundred men in a day . <p> But it 's not just porn . We can see people responding to the same incentives across the board . There 's the " TikTok prankster " Mizzy , whose shtick seems to be harassing strangers on the street . Then there 's MrBeast , the most popular man on YouTube , who takes part in -- and encourages others to take part in , for vast cash prizes -- an ever-escalating succession of bizarre and demeaning challenges . <h> Advertisement <p> Those are two of the most successful attention-getters . But we see the same phenomenon everywhere : ordinary people sharing their personal traumas or pushing their opinions to the extreme . <p> All this damages the people involved . Mizzy was imprisoned last year for breaching a court order preventing him from posting videos without the consent of the passers-by featured in them . Five female contestants on MrBeast 's upcoming Amazon Prime show are suing , citing a " practice and pattern of sexual harassment " . The New York Times reported that 20 people were taken to hospital during the making of the show , and spoke to one contestant who had gone 20 hours without being fed . The poor OnlyFans girl put out a documentary in which she is filmed crying after her experience . <p> The bleak thing is , the crying is just as much a driver of attention as the sex . And this tells us something important . Yes , the push towards the extremes damages the people involved , but it also damages us , the viewers . <p> Every day , our brains are hammered by these endorphin shots of the extreme , the absurd . What does it do to us ? I fear we might become rather like those poor men whose brains are so addled by the baroque complexities of internet porn that they struggle to get an erection when faced with the comparative banality of a real-life , naked human woman . Online we dash between jolts of excitement , feeling everything and so feeling nothing . <p> Here 's an example of that " feeling nothing " . Last week a 26-year-old man was arrested for the murder of Brian Thompson , the chief executive of United Healthcare . Immediately on Thompson 's death , social media erupted with crowing , with jokes . The assassin was hailed as a kind of folk hero , standing up for Americans oppressed by health insurers . Never mind that a father of two was dead , or indeed -- for those who can not bring themselves to care about the death of a father if he is also a chief exec , a common attitude , it seems -- that a clearly disturbed young man 's life is now ruined . No . To those observing , this was just more content . Another sugar hit . Another stunt to pull our attention . <h> Advertisement <p> Where does this instinct come from ? I think in part it comes from the fact that many of us now see our news -- the pictures of children blown apart in Gaza , the videos of hostages released after a horrifying ordeal -- in the same place as we see our stupid jokes , our clips from Wicked , our videos of a woman crying after having sex with a hundred men . It all becomes the same thing : just a rolling stream of content for our entertainment and attention . <p> This is not the internet 's fault . It is ours . The internet is only giving us what we want . There have always been those who celebrate political murders -- think of the glamorising of the IRA . There have always been those who slow down to look at a car crash as they pass on the motorway . The difference now is that there are a thousand car crashes a day to stare at . The difference now is that everyone publishes the grim thoughts that they might once have kept in their head . The difference is that others then celebrate them for it . <p> I found myself thinking about the brief period when I had TikTok on my phone . I found that the more I used it , the more the algorithm adjusted to what I wanted . Not what I thought I wanted . What I wanted . <p> And what I wanted , it turned out , was videos of a robotic voice reading out people 's stories of the most absurd and miserable things that had happened to them . " My husband left me for my sister . " " My son wo n't speak to me any more because he 's joined a cult . " <p> Clearly , somewhere in my head , there is an instinct for revelling in human misery . I had n't realised it was there until TikTok 's algorithm showed it to me . But once I knew , I had two choices . Lean in and revel in it . Or decide to stop feeding it . I deleted the app . <h> Advertisement <p> We all have unfortunate instincts within us . When it comes down to it , we are all just highly evolved apes that got lucky . Social media capitalises on these base instincts , makes them stronger , gives us what we want . <p> But we do n't have to take it . We can decide to stop feeding those instincts . I do n't think it 's overegging it to say that this is what separates us from the apes who did n't get so lucky . To have this choice is our privilege , and also our responsibility .
