<p> Hello . It looks like you 're using an ad blocker that may prevent our website from working properly . To receive the best experience possible , please make sure any ad blockers are switched off , or add https : **25;11410;TOOLONG to your trusted sites , and refresh the page . <h> The film that put Netanyahu in court <p> Displeased by the prospect of becoming a star of the silver screen , in the autumn of this year , Benjamin Netanyahu went to court . <p> Attempting to prevent documentary film The Bibi Files from premiering at the Toronto International Film Festival , the Israeli prime minister filed suit alleging that its bounty of incriminating footage had been obtained by illegal means . In what would be merely the latest in a series of legal setbacks he has suffered in 2024 , the Jerusalem District Court rejected his claim . <p> " Netanyahu is very thin-skinned , " Alexis Bloom , the film 's director , tells me . Not content with attempting to prevent the picture reaching Canadian eyes , its subject also requested that the police investigate one of its producers . So for Bloom , the stakes are high . <p> In answer to my question as to whether the director herself might face arrest were she to set foot in Israel , Bloom replies , " I 'm not gon na test that ... I think it 's probably best for me not to go to Israel while he 's prime minister " . <p> The Bibi Files ' long march to the screen began when Alexis Gibney , another of the film 's producers , received leaked footage of Netanyahu , his wife Sara and their son Yair , as well as a coterie of benefactors and employees , facing questions from Israeli police officers investigating corruption in the corridors of power . After three years of digging , in 2019 , " Bibi " -- the childhood nickname is used by the prime minister 's allies and enemies alike -- was formally indicted on charges of bribery and fraud . <p> On December 10 , he finally appeared in court . " I have waited eight years for this moment , to say the truth as I remember it , " he said on the stand . <p> The qualification is important ; in footage seen in the The Bibi Files , Netanyahu 's memory operates some way below spec . Despite otherwise impeccable powers of recall for details and dates , when it comes to having received champagne and cigars from wealthy supporters , he can barely remember a thing . <p> Of course , as Netanyahu sees it , there are bigger fish to carpet-bomb . As he reminded the court , " I am leading the country through a seven-front war " . <p> At the outset of the project , Bloom was asked by her husband whether audiences would be interested in a movie about the machinations of the Israeli state . Perhaps not , but the atrocities of October 7 , 2023 and those that have followed in their wake have afforded The Bibi Files a visceral urgency that might otherwise be lacking . <p> In itemising the lengths to which Netanyahu will go to avoid dining on porridge , the film declines to spare the viewer the sight of terrorists murdering people and pets , or of the ruins of Gaza jutting from the ground like broken teeth . Never mind the mayhem , clearly , the fog of a Forever War has its uses . <p> " In all honesty , " Bloom tells me , " I think Netanyahu is going to dedicate every cell of his being to staying out of prison ... He will deploy everything possible through his lawyers . <p> " He 's said that the fall of Syria was down to him , and is such a tectonic shift in the region that he has to be on duty 24/7 watching and handling this Syrian situation . So he 's going to try everything possible to continue delaying -- which he can do . Just because he testified today , that does n't mean that he 's going to finish doing so . " <p> But if the events of last October cast a dramatic shadow , elsewhere , it is vulgarity that catches the eye . The Netanyahus are spivs , really -- brittle hustlers who , when cornered by the cops , resort to obfuscation and outrage . <p> Sara , of whom Bibi is frightened to death , is a resentful complainer who kvetches that her family 's personal circumstances pale in comparison to those of their friends Donald and Melania . Eldest child Yair is a feckless playboy whose online ranting has found favour with the -- no , really -- neo-Nazi website The Daily Stormer . Weird is relative , of course , but these relatives are pretty weird . <p> As they were bound to do , the fun and games come to an end with the inevitable reckoning . In order to keep the Bibi Show on the road , extremists such as Itamar Ben-Gvir are lassoed into government as coalition partners . A plan to bring the judiciary under prime ministerial control causes outrage in Israel ; citizens take to the streets of Jerusalem and Tel Aviv . <p> Attempts to pit the Palestinian Authority against Hamas leave scores of thousands dead . But no amount of bloodshed , or hostages imperilled in Gaza , can spare Netanyahu from the dock . As his assistant says , " I always knew the cops would call " . <p> Of the prospect of Bibi being brought to book , Alexis Bloom is less than hopeful . Speaking from her home in Brooklyn , she tells me of her fears that " Israel is so traumatised and frankly exhausted that I do n't know whether they have the energy any more to send him to jail . He might cut a plea deal and end up getting a rap on the knuckles or a suspended sentence or something like that . " Evidently , it 's not for nothing that the director toyed with calling her film The Wounded Animal . <p> In a country in which surveillance footage can only be made public with the consent of those caught on camera , the prospect of The Bibi Files going unseen by the Israeli public has been obviated by the staggering number of people who have watched it via unorthodox means . Elsewhere , in the United States , nervous editors have warned critics against reviewing the film ( seeking to protect her sources , Bloom declines to name specific publications ) . Reassuringly , in Britain , media organisations have proved willing to provide the oxygen of publicity . <p> Good . With its patient dispensation of eye-popping details , The Bibi Files provides a masterclass in sophisticated storytelling . It 's also a riot of unchecked privilege . <p> The sight of the Netanyahus angrily and airily dismissing the evidence mounted against them serves as a warning against the folly of power . As a younger man studying at MIT , in Massachusetts , Bibi requested that his tutors double his workload so he could complete his studies in half the time . Yet here he is , brought low by a weakness for booze and smokes , baubles and gifts . <p> After many months mired in his moral turpitude , I ask Alexis Bloom if she found anything to admire about Benjamin Netanyahu . At the end of a silence lasting a full 10 seconds , the answer comes that she respects his ongoing appetite for reading . <p> With demands on his time , this most ridiculous and unrepentant of world figures has even found the perfect place for periods of solitude with the printed word . " I find it humorous that he reads on the toilet , " she says . <p> The Bibi Files is in UK and Irish cinemas and on demand now <p> Hello . It looks like you 're using an ad blocker that may prevent our website from working properly . To receive the best experience possible , please make sure any ad blockers are switched off , or add https : **25;11437;TOOLONG to your trusted sites , and refresh the page .
