<p> A West Midlands Police officer was attacked at a Birmingham Gaza demonstration and was ' punched badly ' according to eyewitness Hamza , with police vehicles flooding Priory Queensway - one man has been arrested ( Image : @hamza877btw ) <p> A police officer has been attacked following an ' outburst ' at a Birmingham Gaza demonstration . Demonstrators had marched from Handsworth Park to the city centre on Saturday ( December 14 ) . <p> But a man , who was said to be part of the demo , reacted in an ' outburst ' according to eyewitness , Hamza , The witness said : " It was at around 3pm . The demo had been going on and going well when a man had an outburst with a male police officer near McDonald 's on Cherry Street . <p> ? <p> " There was just a male a female police officer there at the time . The man then started attacking the police officer in Union Street . He was punched badly . " <p> Hamza said one of the officers ' pressed the panic button ' which led to a number of police vehicles quickly responded to the incident . He said : " The man fled the scene , leaving the officer with minor injuries . <p> Article continues below <p> " Both officers went after him and this led the panic button to be pressed , with a lot of response cars responding to The Priory Queensway , where the man got caught and arrested . I 'd say around 10 police cars responded to the incident . " <p> West Midlands Police confirmed a man has been detained and is being questioned . A spokeswoman for the force said : " A 46-year-old man was arrested on suspicion of assaulting a police officer and remains in police custody . " <p> At Reach and across our entities we and our partners use information collected through cookies and other identifiers from your device to improve experience on our site , analyse how it is used and to show personalised advertising . You can opt out of the sale or sharing of your data , at any time clicking the " Do Not Sell or Share my Data " button at the bottom of the webpage . Please note that your preferences are browser specific . Use of our website and any of our services represents your acceptance of the use of cookies and consent to the practices described in our Privacy Notice and Cookie Notice .
