<h> New Weird Britain : 2024 in Review by Noel Gardner <p> The torrent of interesting records from the British underground showed no signs of slowing in 2024 , says Noel Gardner , who picks out 10 of his favourites and 10 others that might have otherwise passed him by <p> It 's been another banner year for new , weird , British music , certainly from my vantage point , and I hope the five bimonthly columns I 've filed during 2024 have introduced someone reading to something good . In addition to all the bands , projects etc getting their NWB due for the first time , a wealth of previous reviewees have continued on their golden path . <p> Yet , as one ponders 2025 , not all is rosy . Until this year , NWB had only ever been published in a Britain governed by the Conservative Party , and many featured acts came of artistic age during this period . That changed in July , when Sir Keir Starmer 's Labour stormed to electoral victory with nearly 34 per cent of the vote , and in the months hence no stout-hearted Briton will have avoided being swept up in the wave of positivity that 's drowned this island like an abandoned climate pledge . <p> There 's a school of thought , supported by countless historical examples , that cutting-edge , confrontational music needs some sort of social adversity to thrive . To this end , as I look out into a United Kingdom -- and a happily united one at that -- whose subjects can risk a jig as they stroll the high street , knowing the sitting government are working in the interests of their wellbeing whether they 're a large or merely small business owner , I wonder : what now for the energy of anger ? For weird music 's sake , then , let 's hope this moment will pass and these people reveal themselves as sociopathic , spite-fuelled genocidal vermin as soon as possible . <h> Noel Gardner 's top 10 New Weird Britain releases of 2024 <p> Aniruddha ' Dhangsha ' Das ' second live-recorded album on the spin is a comprehensive reinvention of his sound , taking his passion for bass culture and tearing junglisms into deeper realms of rhythmic noise abstraction . <p> A radio session for the BBC 's Late Junction , though Penumbra is the unexpurgated version of what these two creative titans cooked up upon meeting for the first time . Voice and double bass parts looped and interwoven to rich and compelling effect . <p> The eight children who appear in this iteration of the Todmorden-based PPYO are blessed with a great tutor -- Mark Williamson , aka ambient producer Spaceship -- but the free-beat wood-and-metal sounds are all the kids ' handiwork . <p> London 's Dean Rodney Jr both fronts The Cowboys and records solo music at an unfathomable rate . Here is a mere two songs from that archive on lathe-cut 7-inch , both lyrically giddy with bar-crawling romance and musically bumpin ' in pitched-down electro style . <p> Luke J Murray , of Iceman Junglist Kru and other ventures , steps up with his goofiest alias yet . This 12-inch is a four-strong trippy blizzard of breakbeats , distortion , dark samplage and rotten eggs dropped on club dancefloors . <p> A little under an hour of truly frostbitten tones from the crypt : one of more than a dozen 2024 releases by Carl Fleischer under this pleasingly unsettling pseudonym , it brings dub and isolationism into the orbit of 80s style industrial clank . <p> Brave new worldbuilding here from the producer once known as Inga Copeland , who recorded as Hype Williams with Dean Blunt . Unrecognisable introduces us to two fictional fashionable freedom fighters via nine tracks of dark synth , electro bass and rap drums . <p> Greyly buoyant popped-up post punk with an eye for life as it 's actually experienced and absurdist scenarios of a Marcel Wave singer and sometime fiction writer Maike Hale-Jones ' mind . Takes the legacy of members ' ' ex ' bands , Sauna Youth and Cold Pumas , to somewhere new and better . <p> The Manc dude behind Primitive Knot , Cromlech , Bone Pit , Skuul and some others keeps ' em coming . Daast is him doing industrial techno with emphasis on the techno , a come-and-go aura of halftime drum &amp; bass , and the sullen menace he 's established over a now-sizeable discography . <p> " Songs from a long time ago sourced from various places , " is the tagline for this tape of electronically treated Gaelic folk from Glasgow 's consistently crucial GLARC label . They 're not wrong , but it 's so much more : droning , keening postmodern collisions of the trad and the avant where both parties trade the respect they deserve . <h> 10 New Weird Britain releases that got away <p> Gary Stewart , aka Bantu , and Aniruddha Das ( see number 10 on the previous list ) are partners in sound going back decades . In the early 90s they made two nonpareil outsider acid house EPs as Ani-Roy and , most recently , Stewart passed over his set of deep , bleak dub/noise minimalist jamming to Das for editing and mastering . The result , nine-track tape Instability , teems with analogue chestplate-whackers and a way with process that compares simultaneously to early computer-lab electronic music , noise from the first flushes of the home synth era and the bleeding-edge digitalisms of now . <p> This release might be my favourite thing Jacken Elswyth has been involved with . She 's the E in GUE , who are completed by David Grundy and Laurel Uziell : this trio did collab on a tape in 2018 , with Elswyth 's solo banjo on one side and Grundy and Uziell doing ambient noise on t' other . Here , all three are working towards the same goal of rustic aural enlightenment by means of the freest free folk conceivable . Dense banjo clusters cut through like metal talons , seasick plates of drone arrive with Grundy 's melodica and Uziell 's accordion , and over 55 minutes GUE land somewhere between Eugene Chadbourne , Pelt and Aine O'Dwyer . <p> This winning ramble over jagged rocks by the Glasgow-based Reeve is , equally , testament to the international punk-not-punk community 's lines of communication and the weirdness old and new on tap in his home city . Reeve plays the acoustic bass , sometimes with lissom delicacy and other times like a post-hardcore pugilist , and sings socially sussed poetic songs of bathos and fantasy . As for his guest musicians , Andy Kerr -- guitarist on most of the best Nomeansno records -- plays on four songs , and Cathy Heyden and Lorenzo Prati make a smashing if brief sax duo on ' Apotrope ' . For fans of , wait for it , Dawson and Richard Dawson . <p> Steve ' Jah Warrior ' Mosco releases his meditative dub productions at a brisk rate , with 2024 no exception , but usually as 45s : an artist album by the Manchester-originated , London-based artist is a rare event indeed . Dub From The Heart parts one and two were released in 1997 and 98 , for context , and this ten-track addition to the series is a textbook example of the classic UK dub sound which Mosco played a healthy part in making flesh . Largely instrumental , with some tracks enlivened by introductory toasting by vocalists including Ranking Joe and Hughie Izachaar , DFTH3 is a luxurious suite of chiming melodies , spacious echo units and woodblock percussion . <p> Martin Fisher , remaining member of former duo J-Walk , has been making records for about 30 years and seems pretty pivotal to the Manchester scene of yore containing the Fat City shop , Grand Central Records , Rae &amp; Christian and what have you . Frankly , I tended to find that stuff a big snooze , so this current iteration of J-Walk is a turn up for the books : breezy DIY digidub on ' Black Lion Passage ' and ' African Custard ' , an On-U Cabaret Voltaire in ' Botox Fomo ' , ' Monotropicalia 's Balearic proto-dubstep . The back sleeve has a glued-on A4 sheet listing equipment used and advice on " how to make such a thing " in what might be a Desperate Bicycles homage . <p> Two projects fronted by Tom Bryant , who used to be part of Brighton post punk band Desire . His solo recordings as The Living Rainbow favour clandestine lo-fi shuffling over high volume or other rock aesthetics : on The Dusty Clock , ticktocky programmed drums meet gently gothic basslines , mid-80s jangle pop guitars , hypnagogic keys and Bryant 's halfway-to-a-croon vocal style . Sanctuary Of Praise , whose second tape album Solace was released at the beginning of 2024 , are a band for the purposes of occasional live shows at least , although there are no credited names on the sleeve and the vibe is rather like an austere coldwave sibling to The Dusty Clock . In each case , though , something oddly compelling emerges . <p> This six-track CD is the debut physical release by Blood Of Aza , a twentysomething electronic producer from Surrey who 's accrued a fanbase ( including Aphex Twin , apparently ) through posting grey market remixes and original compositions to Soundcloud . The music side of Tar is them , with the vocals undertaken by Warren Jones of Richmond noise-rap duo Prison Religion . Its first three untitled cuts are skin-peeling stuff , ramming Jones ' chaw-spitting apoplexy headlong into some sort of trap/gabber/hyperpop howl-y trinity . Those are followed by three remixes which harbour moments of relative placidity but go ballistic when NYC producer Ghozt and Shitney Queers -- that 's Shitney Queers -- get on board . <p> Heavy contender for the bleakest LP of 2024 comes from Dominic Goodman , formerly one third of Mosquitoes . That group 's ' thing ' was a disassembled type of rock music : as UEVPD , he severs any such tendencies and cocoons himself in a sort of blackened electroacoustic ambience . Eight untitled pieces combine synths and field recordings , treated in such a way as to hint at dub in its grimy crackle and droning low end , mnml techno in its stark quasi-percussion . If you 've ever heard someone walking up the stairwell of a multistorey carpark and been struck by the pleasing acoustic properties , this album -- especially its seventh track , which does indeed sound like that -- is for you . <p> More improvisers with initials ! This time , ZD is short for Zac and Dave Kavanagh , who live in Birmingham and have also been hailed in NWBs past for their occasions of sludgy abandon as two-thirds of Haq 123 . In that group , jazz was more of a threat than a reality , but on Three Little Birds , the second ZD Grafters CDR ( format sidenote : there 's a vinyl version due on the Crackedankles label in early 2025 ) , it 's been carried out . With Zac -- a teen drummer with maybe a decade 's experience ( ! ) -- grabbing this first chance at free playing with both hands , Dave sets the bass tone to ' brutish churn ' , adds electronic frosting and an old pal , Riddell Thomas , on sax , dragging the results towards Zu and The Thing . <p> Of the many Palestinian benefit compilations that have been released in 2024 , I 'd like to highlight this 38-song one on account of its featured acts ' proximity to this column . These include Tristwch Y Fenywod ( and member-related project Hawthonn ) , Teresa Winter , Karl D'Silva , Michael Kasparis , Matthew Shaw , LASH -- members of Es and Sniffany &amp; The Nits -- and Sunken Grove , aka Ellis Green of the Verdant Wisdom label . Other notable contributions come from Glasgow 's wavey indie trio S Antigone , Offa 's Dyke 's finest Krautrockers Moon Goose and the layered folk drone of Elspeth Anne . Proceeds from When I Survive will go to two displaced people from Gaza City , Yahya Al Hamarna and Yousef Abdellatif.
