<h> Silence on cousin marriage is the unspeakable face of liberalism <h> Time and again brave souls try to speak out against the dangerous and degenerate practice , and they are stopped <p> Science has been corrupted . I hate to say it , but it 's the only conclusion I can reach after months of researching cousin marriage -- a ban on which was debated in parliament last week . It 's been a period of frustration , obfuscation and institutional omerta : the antithesis of the open inquiry described so eloquently by Plato and Popper . <p> Let me start by telling you about Dr Patrick Nash , a somewhat shy legal academic who in 2017 came across an intriguing finding . He noticed that much of the " extremism " emanating from Pakistani communities seemed to have a " clan " component . The perpetrators were linked not just through ideology or religion but by family ties stretching through generations . He noticed something else too : these communities were cemented together by cousin marriage , a common practice in Pakistani culture . By marrying within small , tightknit groups , they ensure everything is kept within the baradari , or brotherhood -- property , secrets , loyalty -- binding them closer together while sequestering them from wider society . <p> At this point Dr Nash had n't come to understand the genetic risks , the patriarchal oppression and the bloc voting , nor the growing evidence that rates of cousin marriage strongly correlate with corruption and poverty , but -- like any good scholar -- he thought he 'd do a bit more digging . <p> But then something odd happened : several academics invited him to the pub for a " drink and chat " . He thought nothing of it , but it turned out to be an informal tribunal . " It was put to me that I might consider another line of inquiry that would be more ' culturally sensitive ' , less likely to provide ' ammo for the right ' and less likely to ' make life more difficult for myself ' as a junior , untenured academic , " he told me . " It was sinister . " <p> You might dismiss this as a one-off or perhaps the testimony of an overly sensitive scholar , but bear with me . You see , I sought to study this area during a sabbatical last year . It 's a subject close to home : when I went to Pakistan as a youngster to meet the extended family , my dad half-joked that he could arrange a marriage with a cousin . He said it lightheartedly but the conversation stuck with me . As I grew up , I kept noticing stories that revealed the genetic risks of cousin marriage and how it could lead to cultural separation . It seemed an area ripe for deeper research . <h> Advertisement <p> But I quickly discovered that researchers would n't return emails or calls . When I got through to one geneticist , he said : " I ca n't go there . " It was like hitting a succession of ever-higher brick walls . I then came across evidence that scientists examining the UK Biobank had found that levels of incest ( father-daughter , siblings etc ) were significantly higher in the British Pakistani community than the wider population . This was a disturbing finding , possibly indicating abuse of a shocking kind . But the paper was never published , disappearing into what I can only describe as an Orwellian memory hole . When I approached the researchers , they were not prepared to talk on the record . One said that he feared he might not be able to bring up his children if he whispered the truth and lost his job as a result . It was like something out of Kafka . <p> What I hope you are gleaning from all this is how scientific inquiry is being distorted and suppressed out of an almost crippling fear of offending cultural sensitivities ; how information vital to the public interest is being censored out of concern that it might be prejudicial to the " customs " of immigrant communities . It is a phenomenon that directly parallels the Rotherham scandal , in which young girls suffering horrific abuse at the hands of mainly Pakistani gangs were betrayed by the police and social services , which refused to investigate for fear of appearing racist . <p> Eventually I wrote a column calling for a ban on cousin marriage in April last year . I was assisted by Nash , who had continued his research despite being warned off ( his trump card was that his salary was paid not by his university but by the Woolf Institute , an independent body committed to free speech ) . To my surprise , the piece became one of the most-read stories of the year and was picked up in Scandinavia . Not long afterwards Norway , Denmark and Sweden announced plans to prohibit cousin marriage and Tennessee passed legislation . <p> Last week the movement picked up momentum when the Tory MP Richard Holden gave a brave speech in parliament calling for a ban . He was strongly opposed by Iqbal Mohamed , one of the independent " Gaza bloc " of MPs , who argued that cousin marriage is a good thing since it " strengthens family bonds " , perhaps the most stunning piece of ( unintentional ) satire in modern political history . Mohamed 's intervention , however , seemed to do the trick . After first implying that it had an open mind on a ban , the government changed its position to " no plans to legislate " , doubtless fearful of losing more seats to the Gaza bloc . I suspect it will come to regret this cowardly retreat . <p> But the other striking aspect of the debate was the sinister influence of scientific malpractice . MPs on all sides kept referring to the genetic risks of cousin marriage as " double " those of relationships between unrelated couples . This " fact " is endemic throughout the media , from the BBC to The Telegraph , and for good reason : journalists trust what scientists tell them . But the stat is n't true -- indeed , it 's absurd . When inbreeding persists through generations ( when cousins get married who are themselves the children of cousins ) , the risks are far higher , which is why British Pakistanis account for 3.4 per cent of births nationwide but 30 per cent of recessive gene disorders , consanguineous relationships are the cause of one in five child deaths in Redbridge and the NHS hires staff specifically to deal with these afflictions . <h> Advertisement <p> Perhaps you 'll permit me to finish with a personal reflection . My motive in writing about cousin marriage is simple : I believe that banning it will free families from horrific genetic diseases and liberate the most vulnerable from the patriarchs who control and often brutalise segregated communities . But the longer I 've studied this area , the more I 've come to realise that our societies face a potentially bigger problem : the corruption of large parts of institutional science . I 'd long known about how ultra-progressivism had infiltrated the humanities , but I had naively assumed that the " hard sciences " were immune to ideological capture . I was wrong . <p> I realised something else too . I was a victim of racism growing up , ostracised for long periods at school for the colour of my skin , which is why I 've spent my life fighting the bigotry of the hard right . But I now believe the soft bigotry of the left is more insidious . After all , you can see and challenge a thug using the P-word , but how to combat the subtler bias that has seeped into our institutions ? Ponder the scientists who , with the terrible certainty of their own virtue , played down the risks of cousin marriage , thereby denying the very community they presume to help crucial information ; the researchers who concealed information on incest to " protect " minorities , thereby condemning the most vulnerable to sickening abuse . <p> The philosopher John Gray has said that hyperliberalism is the most illiberal of all modern ideologies . I 'd go one stage further . It is also -- in its consequences , if not in its intent -- the most racist .
