<h> ' A whole new world opened up ' : the radical project taking Israel-Palestine into schools <p> Helen Pidd and Courtney Yusuf <p> 14 December 2024 at 6:11 am*6-min read <p> Pupils from Lancaster Royal Grammar School and an Islamic school take part in a Parallel Histories session based on the history of **27;420;TOOLONG : Gary Calton/The Observer <p> It has dominated the news agenda for the past 14 months , but inside most British classrooms , it 's as if 7 October never happened . Half a million pupils studied history at GCSE or A-level last year , but just 2,000 tackled the origins of the Middle East 's most contentious war : why Israel was born , what that meant for the Palestinians , and the decades of occupation and violence that followed . <p> It 's not that children are n't interested . They hear about it at home , in their communities and of course on social media , where a bitter and bloody 100-year-old schism is boiled down to 15-second clips . But inside school , it 's all just too difficult . Too dangerous , even . <p> All of which made the scene in the hall at Lancaster Royal grammar school ( LRGS ) this month even more remarkable as pupils from the selective Lancashire state school came together with boys from an Islamic school to explore and debate key elements of the Israel-Palestine conflict . <p> About 50 students aged 13 to 18 took part in the session , organised by Parallel Histories , an educational charity working with more than 1,000 schools across the UK and a further 400 worldwide . <p> Some of the children looked nervous ( " I was worried about saying the wrong thing , " one boy admitted afterwards , relieved that his fears had been unfounded . ) The older pupils , veterans of the Parallel Histories method -- which also has courses on the Troubles in Northern Ireland , as well as Putin and Ukraine , and " great " leaders including Churchill and Thatcher -- were chomping at the bit . <p> Layla , 18 , used to be at a school that was too scared to tackle contested histories . " We did the Vikings , Elizabeth I , British crime and punishment and the Nazis . So all very typical stuff . And then I came here and suddenly a whole new world was opened up to me . " <p> The Parallel Histories method -- developed by the late LRGS history teacher Michael Davies after he took pupils on what now seems an unimaginable school trip to Israel and the West Bank in 2014 -- encourages children not to shy away from competing narratives but to lay them out , side by side . They are taught to examine the source evidence and debate alternative interpretations before coming to their own view . The curriculum and all teaching materials are available on the Parallel Histories website for parents -- or indeed anyone -- to examine . <p> " You can understand both sides of the story without just seeing a post on Twitter that says one side and it 's very populist , whereas this lets you see the evidence and make your own mind up about that argument , " said Layla . <p> Even before the 7 October attacks , teaching Israel-Palestine was difficult : in 2021 , the only exam board to offer curriculum material and a GCSE history option on the region withdrew its two textbooks after being accused of favouring the case for Israel . <p> On the day we visited , the youngest students , from year 9 , were tackling the Balfour declaration , the 1917 memo in which the UK declared its support for the creation of a Jewish homeland in Palestine . The year 10s were doing the 1967 six-day war , or Naksa , which resulted in an Israeli victory over the combined forces of Egypt , Jordan and Syria -- and the occupation of the West Bank , Gaza and East Jerusalem . And the year 12s were examining who was responsible for the failure of the peace process right up to the present day . <p> Each group was split into two , with half told they would be arguing the Israeli perspective and half the Palestinian view , with each using primary sources ( letters , memos , speeches , etc ) to make their case . <p> Key to Parallel Histories is that the groups then swap sides -- in this case after a much-anticipated pizza lunch -- and are forced to counter the arguments they have just been making . <p> During the first session , Zain , 17 , could be heard arguing that " deep divisions between the Palestinian political parties Fatah and Hamas helped to derail any prospect of a peace deal " . He was countered by Sol , 16 , using a UN security council briefing to make the Palestinian case that Israelis have ignored repeated resolutions to stop building settlements in the occupied territories . <p> Arguing for Israel did not come naturally to Zain : " I 'm very pro-Palestine . I have family working there , " he said . " But it is interesting to see from another perspective how other people think , and it is valuable . " <p> It was important for schools to teach Israel-Palestine , said Sol , otherwise " you have these two extreme sides who wo n't really listen to each other , and therefore you ca n't achieve peace , because neither side will hear out what 's going on " . <p> Emma , 16 , said the session had helped her " gain empathy for both sides , with more nuance . It 's not just black and white . Both sides have good arguments . " <p> Hassaan , 14 , said schools should n't fear teaching the subject . " We should learn about this , especially since it 's on the news so much and most of us do n't know the history . " <p> Learning about the Balfour declaration , which followed decades of Jewish persecution in Russia , helped him better understand the conflict , he added : " By looking at these sources , by learning this much , you understand how simple things like this can lead in the future to a big conflict like the one that 's occurring right now . " <p> Al-Yasa , an LRGS old boy who now teaches history at the Islamic boys ' school , said : " I think it 's really important that we talk about contentious topics , because if we do n't , other people do in their own echo chamber . And where best to teach contentious topics than in school , where we can teach the kids to articulate their views in a controlled and safe manner ? " <p> Nonetheless , teaching like this comes with risks , which is one reason his school asked to not be named in this piece . But Al-Yasa thinks Parallel Histories is the best way of countering extremism -- far better than the government 's controversial Prevent strategy , which turns teachers into informants . <p> " My previous head , when I introduced him to Parallel Histories , said : ' This is what prevention looks like . This is Prevent , when they 're able to look at sources , able to articulate it in a safe environment . ' " <p> The charity hopes to extend its work to 3,000 schools with money from our annual appeal , and expand its staff of five . <p> Bill Rammell , a former Labour minister who took over as Parallel Histories ' chief executive this year , said the methodology had never been more important . <p> " Society is more divided than ever before . We live with social media , where the algorithms just feed us the news and the views that accord with what we believe . And there 's a real sense of schism . And I think Parallel Histories and the way we teach , the debates we organise , enables young people to cut through that , to have empathy and understanding for both sides of the arguments , and , in a sense , builds their capacity to reach out across the divides . And I think it genuinely does contribute to social cohesion . " <p> South Korean lawmakers on Saturday impeached President Yoon Suk Yeol over his failed martial law bid , with the opposition declaring a " victory of the people " . " Yoon had no choice but to declare martial law . <p> When General de Gaulle arrived in Paris on 25 August , 1944 to mark the French capital 's liberation from Nazi occupation , his official reporter was by his side to document the historic moment . That reporter was France 's first female WWII correspondent , but her name was lost to history -- until a fellow journalist brought her story to light . France 's news agency , Agence France-Presse ( AFP ) , was founded 80 years ago on 20 August , 1944 , just a few days before the liberation of Paris.In October last y <p> Pro-EU demonstrators in Georgia on Saturday forced authorities to postpone the switching-on of festive lights on a tree at the heart of protests outside parliament , hailing this as a " small victory " . The postponement was " a small victory for us , " said Irina Machavariani , who had come to the protest with her mother . <p> ON THE GROUND : The Rukban camp was supposed to provide refuge to those fleeing chemical weapons attacks and other atrocities , writes Bel Trew . The thousands who became trapped there could only pray for survival until the fall of Assad 's regime <p> Abu Mohammad al-Jolani , leader of Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , has become Syria 's new strongman , replacing the Alawite regime of Bashar al-Assad . Once a partner of al Qaeda , Jolani now speaks the language of tolerance towards Syria 's ethnic and religious minorities and told his fighters to refrain from extrajudicial violence . Videos emerging on social media , including one apparently showing the execution of four suspected regime collaborators , suggest that not all of his fighters are following hi
