<h> Syria has always shaped the past ; Trump ignores it at our peril <h> The fall of Assad in Damascus is the latest upheaval for a city used to seeing empires rise and fall . The world has a stake in what comes next <p> Faisal , centre at the 1919 Paris Peace Conference with his enigmatic adviser Lawrence of Arabia to the right , was made king of Greater Syria in 1917 after helping to launch the Arab Revolt <p> ALAMY <p> Simon Sebag Montefiore <p> Friday December 13 2024 , 5.00pm , The Times <p> ' Syria is a mess " wrote Donald Trump as the HTS militias marched on Damascus to overthrow the diabolical Assad dynasty . " THE UNITED STATES SHOULD HAVE NOTHING TO DO WITH IT . THIS IS NOT OUR FIGHT . LET IT PLAY OUT . DO NOT GET INVOLVED ! " This is the next US commander-in-chief , who wishes to neutralise Iranian malignity , though an Iranian empire is impossible without access to Syria ; wishes for a safe Israel , though that is impossible with a hostile Syria ; and hopes to complete his Abraham Accords , a real strategic shift after decades of paralysis , yet this too will be impossible without Syria , historic heartland of the Middle East . <p> The fall of Assad is a rare moment of jubilation after years of blood-splattered conflict , but its geopolitical significance lies not just in the freeing of Syria but its special place in Arab history and west Asia . It is a history that sweeps Syria from biblical Aram-Damascus to the revelation of Muhammad , the Arab empire and the glories of the imperial Umayyads via Saladin , Napoleon , Kaiser Wilhelm , the Arab Revolt , the French Mandate , the Baathists and the Assads , and now Trump and Abu Mohammed al-Jolani . <p> Syria 's great cities , Damascus and Aleppo , are among the oldest continuously inhabited cities , settled in the third millennium BC , possibly millennia earlier . Damascus and its king Biryawaza appears in the Egyptian pharaonic archives of Amarna c1350BC . It was the capital of Aram-Damascus at the same time as the Jewish biblical kingdoms of Judah and Israel ; the peoples of this region shared common ancestry and Semitic language and are among the forebears of modern Jews , Palestinians and Syrians . <p> Even biblical history has faint echoes of today : these small kingdoms fought each other or joined forces to fight the predatory eastern empire , Assyria . In the 880s , King Ben-Hadad was captured by the Israelites and forced to grant Israel trading rights in Damascus . In the 830-820s King Hazael of Aram-Damascus defeated Israel and Judah , conquering what is now northern Israel , which he celebrated with the Tel Dan stele that also confirms the existence of King David as the founder of a Jewish kingdom . Damascus , like Jerusalem , was built around a temple , to the rain god Hadad on the site of today 's Umayyad Mosque . Like Israel , Aram-Damascus was annexed by Assyria , then ruled by Babylon , then Persia . <h> Advertisement <p> When Alexander the Great conquered Persia , Syria became part of the Greek world , the base of his general and successor Seleukos . His dynasty ruled the eastern half of the Alexandrian empire for over a century based in Syria at their capital Antioch ( Antakya , Turkey ) . The collapse of the Seleucids drew Rome into Syria , annexed by Pompey the Great in 63BC . <p> In the syncretism of the times , Rome merged the Arab god Hadad with Jupiter , and when Constantine converted his empire to Christianity , Damascus 's Jupiter Temple became the Cathedral of St John , receptacle of the Baptist 's head offered to Herod Antipas and Salome . Soon after 602 , Syria was conquered by Khusru II , shah of Sasanian Persia -- the last time until the 21st century when Iran dominated Syria . <p> Growing up in Hejaz , the Prophet Muhammad had visited Syria -- known in Arabic as Bilad al-Sham ( Land of the Left , looking from Mecca ) -- and he was familiar with the Jewish and Christian scriptures that sanctified the wider Holy Land . Out of the Muslim schism that became Sunni and Shia , the Meccan princeling and Muhammad 's brother-in-law Muawiya emerged as caliph of an Arab empire with its capital in Damascus . <p> Muawiya , founder of the Umayyad dynasty , was the very definition of a shrewd Arab ruler , famous for his timeless political wisdom : " I never apply the sword when the lash suffices , nor the lash when my tongue is enough . If there is even one thread binding me to my fellow man , I do not let it break . If he pulls , I loosen . If he loosens , I pull . " <p> The Umayyads made Syria the cradle of Arab grandeur but their successors moved the Arab capital to Baghdad . Syria only regained its centrality in 1170s when Saladin , a Kurdish warlord from Tikrit ( Iraq , later hometown of Saddam ) recaptured Jerusalem from the Crusaders , ruling Syria and Egypt from Damascus , where he is buried . <h> Advertisement <p> Under Ottoman rule from Istanbul , multi-sect , multi-ethnic greater Syria , inhabited by Sunnis , Shias , Christians , Jews , Alawites , Kurds and Jews , kept its special place . In the late 18th century , European powers were drawn into Syrian politics by the decline of the Ottomans . <p> Napoleon 's invasion in 1799 was foiled by the brutal governor of Damascus , Jazzar <p> ALAMY <p> In 1799 , Napoleon invaded hoping to found a French empire but was foiled by the brutal governor of Damascus , Jazzar ( Butcher ) Pasha , a manumitted Bosnian slave and assassin who ensured the loyalty of his courtiers by amputating parts of them ( his chief minister , a Damascene Jewish potentate who ran Greater Syria for 30 years , had one eye , one ear and no nose by the end of his career ) . <p> In 1898 , when Kaiser Wilhelm II sought alliance with the Ottomans , he visited Damascus and Saladin 's crumbling tomb . His host , Sultan Abdul-Hamid II , used ethnic violence , between Turks , Kurds and Christian Armenians , to solidate his fraying empire . <p> European concepts of nationalism and enlightenment inspired the Arab Awakening -- the Nadha -- based in Greater Syria . But it was the 1908 Young Turk Revolution that inspired Arab nationalists based in Syria to found the secret societies al-Ahd ( the Covenant ) and al-Fatat ( Young Arabs ) . <h> Advertisement <p> In 1914 , after a trio of Turkish ultra-nationalists -- the Three Pashas -- seized power in Istanbul and joined the First World War beside Germany , they launched a genocide against Armenians , many of them murdered in northern Syria . Britain encouraged Hussein Amir of Mecca and his sons Faisal and Abdullah to rebel against Istanbul in return for promises of empire . <p> Optimism for a free Syria may prove short lived <p> AMMAR AWAD/REUTERS <p> In 1915 Prince Faisal visited Damascus , secretly joining al-Fatat . In 1916 he helped launch the Arab Revolt . When the British General Allenby invaded Palestine in 1917 , Faisal , accompanied by his enigmatic adviser Lawrence of Arabia , rode with them to take Damascus where he was declared King of Greater Syria , including Lebanon , Palestine and Jordan . Centuries after Muawiya and Saladin , Syria was again the heart of an Arab realm . <p> Except France and Britain had a secret plan to carve up the Ottoman Empire . Britain took a " mandate " for Palestine and Iraq while France received Greater Syria , and both embraced a plan for a " homeland " for Jews in their ancestral Holy Land -- providing the project did not undermine existing Arab populations . As the French marched into Syria , King Faisal resisted but was defeated . ( Instead he was given the throne of Iraq ; his brother Abdullah the throne of Jordan . ) <p> In 1925 , Syrians rebelled but the French crushed them , planning to divide their mandate into five or six statelets for each minority -- with Lebanon for their Maronite Christian favourites . After the Second World War , France acquiesced reluctantly to grant independence to multi-sect Syria and a Maronite-ruled Lebanon , both imperial-modelled states that had never existed before -- but their birth was shaken by the events in British Palestine . <p> When the Jews declared independent Israel , Syria and other Arab states invaded to destroy it . Israel defeated them , humiliating Syria which was just functioning as a fragile democracy . In March 1949 , in the first of many military coups , General Husni Zaim seized power and opened negotiations to meet the Israeli PM Ben-Gurion and make peace . Weeks later , officers arrested and executed him and Syria remained permanently at war with Israel -- a pattern that should now be broken . <h> Advertisement <p> These Franco-British imperial manipulations inspired a Syrian Christian named Michel Aflaq to found in 1947 a new party , Baath ( Resurrection ) that combined pan-Arab nationalist-socialism , anti-imperialism , anti-Israelism with secular , totalitarian tendencies . It won the devotion of nationalists in Syria such as Hafez al-Assad , a young Alawite pilot . In 1963 , the Baathists seized power ; in 1969 , General Assad , now president , founded a dynasty that ruled Syria until last week , ruling through a Stalinist cult of personality , his secret police trained by the KGB , and Nazi SS advisers . <p> Bashar Assad , left , took over the rule of Syria from his father Hafez , who had taken control of the country in 1971 <p> AP <p> Meanwhile the Iraqi Baathists led by General al-Bakr and his young cousin Saddam Hussein , seized power in Baghdad . The two Baathist states tried to merge but Saddam resisted ; and the two became enemies . When the Shah of Iran was overthrown in 1979 , Saddam invaded Iran while Assad made an alliance with the ayatollahs in Tehran . Assad flew to Moscow to ally with Leonid Brezhnev 's Soviet Union , to which he granted the Tartus naval base in return for the weapons that enabled him to attack Israel in 1973 . <p> In 1976 , civil war in Lebanon gave Assad the chance to recreate a Greater Syria . He sent in 30,000 Syrian troops while backing the rise of Iran 's proxy militia , Hezbollah . In 2005 , his successor son , Bashar , with Hezbollah , assassinated the former Lebanese leader Rafik Hariri , an outrage that led to the expulsion of Syrian troops but ultimately to the capture of the Lebanese state by Hezbollah and Iran . <p> Fighters from the Free Syrian Army 's Tahrir al Sham brigade fire at Syrian army positions during the battle for Damascus <p> REUTERS <p> When in 2011 the Arab Spring hit Syria , Assad crushed the rebellion , releasing jihadist prisoners who contributed to the rise of the terror sect Islamic State . Its self-styled caliph , al-Baghdadi , sent a young Syrian henchman with the nom de guerre al-Jolani , who had joined Isis in Iraq , to go home and create a Syrian militia later allied with al-Qaeda . <p> As Syria broke apart , Jolani , after many schisms and feuds among terrorist sects , formed his Islamist coalition now called Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS , or Organisation of Liberation for Syria ) in Idlib in the north . Assad survived with Iranian and Russian help , in a frenzy of butchery and torture that cost 600,000 lives . The Iranian dictator Khamenei seemed triumphant with an empire from Iraq to Lebanon . <h> Advertisement <p> Then Iran overreached . On October 7 , 2023 , Hamas and then Hezbollah attacked Israel . After its failings and humiliation , Israel smashed both . Iran crumbled . Russia is distracted by Ukraine . And Jolani is now forming an apparently technocratic-Islamist coalition in Damascus , recognised by all sides including the Kurds . <p> Syrian politics are so complex it is wise to leave the analysis to Syrian experts such as Hassan Hassan , Charles Lister and Aaron Yelin , who will tell us whether the chameleonic potentate Jolani , now calling himself Ahmed al-Shara , offers tolerance , democracy and peace , or will return to Taliban-style persecution of minorities and women . <p> Only Syrian people can decide ; the Iraq fiasco proved the US should not " build nations " . We can only celebrate Syria 's exhilarating freedom . But the occupying Turks are still bombing the Kurds in the north ; the US strafes Isis remnants ; and Israel has seized an empty buffer zone on Mount Hermon as it demolishes Assad 's chemical arsenal . <p> In this world game of power played out in Syria , the losers are Russia , now barely in control of Tartus naval base , and Iran , whose Shia crescent has sunk into a Shia eclipse : without Syria it loses Lebanon . <p> Families arrive at the Umayyad mosque for Friday prayers in Damascus <p> LEO CORREA/AP <p> The winners are Turkey and Israel , now the paramount powers that in their hostility have much in common : the two most successful post-Ottoman states , formed by nationalist rebellions against imperial Britain , both the result of ethnic war and violent partition . They are sophisticated militarily and economically , their success in peril from religious-nationalist extremism and degraded governance . <p> Both are half-feral western allies . Turkey , Nato member , backs Hamas and aims to destroy US allies the Kurds , whom it believes encourage its own separatist Kurds but also to promote neo-Ottoman power on to former sultanic provinces . It has achieved Syrian success at little cost . Israel , on the other hand , has paid a high cost in blood and reputation since October 7 but in an existential multi-theatre war has restored its regional power . Its bungling , extremist government is more than capable of destroying the gains its army and intelligence have won . In Turkey too , the caprices of its unpredictable autocrat Erdogan may squander his spoils , particularly if he crosses the new US president . <p> At the centre of it all , Syria can be either the warm heart of a new open-minded order or the voracious maw of a ravenously cruel new chaos . Trump says he is not interested in the " sand and death " of Syria but the great successes of Trump 1.0 were defeating Isis and signing the Abraham Accords . Now in Trump 2.0 he wishes to break Iran . " Syria is not our friend , " he writes , but all his friends are in Syria . <p> It will require Trumpian dealmaking and bullying to control Erdogan 's Syrian ambitions , to protect the Kurds . Trump has promised to ensure Israeli victory and the freeing of its 100 hostages but I predict he will tire fast of the extremist follies of Netanyahu and his Ben-Gvir/Smotrich pyromaniacal , messianic gallimaufry . <p> Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States have an opportunity to add Syria and Lebanon to their pro-American Sunni ascendancy , though Trump will warn the duplicitous Qataris they must cease support for Hamas . Jordan needs protection . The Lebanese people and factions have a chance to rescue their state , with US encouragement to maintain the Israel-Hezbollah ceasefire . <p> While US president . Barack Obama fatally appeased Iran <p> NATHAN CONGLETON/NBC/GETTY IMAGES <p> To paraphrase Trotsky , Trump may be not interested in Syria but Syria is interested in him . " Do n't get involved ! " he says . But Mr President , you are involved , and the Syrian revolution is an opportunity to change the dynamics of the region , not just for the US after the catastrophic mistakes of Barack Obama , who fatally appeased Iran , but in favour of peace and governance ; for Syria , a responsible government unknown since the 1950s , though a US presence will be needed to crush any Isis resurgence . <p> The prizes for Trump are twofold : first a deal that limits Iran 's regional aggression and nuclear programme in return for normalisation . If Iran , under its murderous but ageing dictator Khamenei , fails to change , Trump may wish to bomb its nuclear bases . Only America has the armaments to do it and in exercises around the US itself , its air force has already practised the runs necessary to pull it off . <p> The fall of Assad and Hezbollah now place the very survival of the Iranian tyranny in jeopardy : its fall -- a triumph for any US president -- could be closer than anyone thinks . The second prize is equally hard : an expanded Abraham Accord . Hamas is now so shattered that a Gaza ceasefire and hostages ' return may coincide with Trump 's accession , opening up the possibility of some pathway to a Palestinian republic that brings Saudi Arabia and Israel together -- and maybe Syria and Lebanon too . <p> But this is the Middle East , where grand schemes by outside powers usually founder , where small covens of homicidal extremists can turn noble dreams to ashes and everything can always get worse . Our hopes for Syria are high , our hearts sing at the fall of tyrants and this joyous mood will open minds to new conjunctions . The road to this new era runs through a free Syria but no one can predict what will happen , except for one thing : Trump can not avoid the Middle East and if he can not avoid the Middle East , he can not avoid Syria . <p> Simon Sebag Montefiore is the author of The World : a Family History of Humanity and Jerusalem : a History of the Middle East
