<h> Christmas Day at the Corens ? It 'll cost you <h> I 've got festive charging down to a tee -- from the entrance fee to the weighed turkey slices and sprouts at ? 1 a pop <p> Big Christmas story in The Times on Thursday . Massive . Genuinely , a morality tale of our times to stand alongside A Christmas Carol , It 's a Wonderful Life and , yes , even Die Hard . " Scrooges or savvy ? " yodelled the headline , acknowledging the Dickensian roots of the quandary it was about to present . " Nation split on charging Christmas lunch guests . " <p> In a 46:54 division , almost as close as Brexit and likely to be twice as bitter , just under half the British public said they thought it was absolutely fine in these straitened times to present friends and relations with a bill for the turkey , mince pies and grog ( I 'm guessing those are mostly the ones who know they will be hosting this year ) , while slightly more than half ( mainly this year 's guests , I imagine ) thought it was completely unacceptable . <p> So , when the Christmas charging naysayers show up in ten days ' time at the doors of their invoice-wielding relatives , reindeer jumpers on , paper hats jauntily askew and nothing but a curdled bottle of last year 's undrunk Bailey 's to pay their way , there can be only one possible outcome : Christmageddon . <p> But not round mine . Round mine , everyone knows that top quality food and wine come at a heavy price , and they arrive ready to pay . And , by the way , this ? 65 that The Times quotes as the current average cost of a Christmas meal for eight ( what do they get , a mince pie each and a glass of water ? ) , will not even begin to cut the cranberry mustard chez Coren . <h> Advertisement <p> To start with , I charge a ? 20 entry fee on the door to every single visitor , including babes-in-arms ( more if they 're crying ) and dogs ( which have to be tied up outside and do NOT get fed ) and it goes up for latecomers by a pound a minute after the stated " drinks and presents " time of 12.45pm . This is , generously , refundable to all guests when they leave , provided they have not broken anything , complained , fallen asleep or asked to play charades . <p> On entering , guests are offered a festive sherry . I say " offered " . It 's ? 4 a glass . There 's a discreet sign . That 's for bog-standard Tio Pepe , by the way , with a ? 1 surcharge if you want it chilled . I charge ? 8 for a barrel-aged dry oloroso in a crystal glass , and for sweeter " grandma " sherry , it 's ? 14.50 , because grandma can buy and sell us all six times over . Only the tap water is free , because one is compelled by law to make it available , but that does n't mean I have to give you a clean glass ; there 's a tooth mug in the downstairs loo , knock yourself out . <p> Now , what to do if people do n't bring cash ? There is nothing more annoying than Uncle Barry reaching for a smoked salmon blini and then , when you point to the " ? 2 a portion " sign , rubbing his pockets and going " the cash machine was empty " . Which is why each of my children is equipped for the day with a chip and pin machine , although that comes with a surcharge for tax reasons and an " optional " tip added to the total . <p> The children are also trained to follow guests around the house all day , asking how everything is for them , whether they have any allergies , and offering to supersize such items as pigs-in-blankets and angels-on-horseback and inquiring whether they want fries with that . <h> Advertisement <p> When it is time to sit for lunch , guests are served by weight . Not their weight , tempting though that would be ( " No more spuds for you , fatty ! We do n't want type 2 diabetes for Christmas , do we ? " ) , but the weight of the turkey slices . Plates go on to scales and as people say " and a little bit of brown meat please " the arrow moves inexorably upwards . The trick here , as my family have long grasped , is to take only white meat , as it is so dry and papery it weighs next to nothing . A juicy bit of leg can be financially ruinous in the current climate . <p> And then you 're into the sprouts , where there are huge margins to be made out of health-conscious parents forcing their children to take some , whether they want them or not . By charging a quid a sprout you can really line your coffers , and , as the kids never eat them , they can be salvaged , rinsed , frozen and served again next year ! <p> What people do definitely want , on the other hand , is stuffing and gravy and roast potatoes , as they are the only faintly edible part of the meal . So here , taking our lead from the Oasis tour and certain West End pubs , we operate a system of dynamic pricing , with the cost of a potato soaring as the supply dwindles , especially for the crispy ones . It 's a good way of forcing people on to the unpopular , soggy , barely roasted potatoes , which have a neat habit of breaking in half at the touch of a spoon , and thus counting twice . Kerching ! <p> At cracker time , we 're generous . A quid a pop unless you want one with a joke in you 've never heard before , which is a tenner . <h> Advertisement <p> Then it 's : " Can I light the pudding ? Can I light the pudding ? " Sure you can , kid , if mum 's got a crisp fifty to hand . Then it 's time to take your positions for the grand entrance of the flaming pud , 50p for a back row seat , rising to a fiver to be near the door and have half a chance of seeing the flames before they go out almost immediately due to the steepling price of brandy . <p> After lunch , everyone is free to go for a walk in the park . And when I say free , I mean that going for a walk is completely free . Unless you want to borrow a coat or an umbrella or , rubs hands greedily , a pair of wellies . Then it 's back to the house to gather round the fire , assuming enough people chip in for logs , and a round of port , stilton and mince pies , all at competitive prices , while the children play Monopoly -- real money only , Sam acting as banker and operating a ? 5 an hour " rake " , as in all good casinos . <p> If the King 's Christmas message is your thing , that 's on in the spare room ; Kitty will issue your ticket which is five quid , or three for standing , with the option to purchase a meal deal for a tenner , which gives you a cup of tea and a slice of Christmas cake ( icing not included ) . <p> And then it 's time , ladies and gentlemen , please . You do n't have to go home ... but you ca n't stay here ! On your way out , you can get your coat from Esther , who will be delighted to refund your deposit -- where the small print has not been breached -- and tot up what you owe in terms of fines for talking about house prices , Gaza , football , VAT on school fees , the John Lewis advert , how kids in your day were happy with wooden toys and saying what a shame it is that we only get together like this once a year -- although round mine , to be fair , nobody ever does .
