<p> This week was a notable one in the POLITICO calendar as we celebrated democracy and journalism at our annual POLITICO 28 gala dinner in Brussels . <p> Every year our newsroom puts together a list of the most powerful people to watch in the year ahead , based on reporting by our entire team that now stretches across more than 11 capitals in Europe . This year 's list , led by Senior Reporter Aitor Hern ? ndez-Morales , sparked plenty of debate as Brussels looks with some trepidation into 2025 . <p> Trump , of course , hung in the room . I thought back to POLITICO 28 in 2016 , when our pick as the coming year 's most powerful person was London Mayor Sadiq Khan , badged " the alternative " and notable for positioning himself as a holdout in the face of political change , a centrist , EU-supporting British Muslim who might defy the populist , isolationist forces of Brexit and Trump . <p> The following day , I hopped on the Eurostar back to London , in part for another POLITICO event ( though in truth also to catch my three-year-old starring as a donkey in her nursery school 's nativity play ! ) . <p> Over breakfast at public affairs agency iNHouse Communications , I debated how Trump 's second term in the White House might unfold with our Head of News Alex Burns , who had flown in from Washington , and Executive Editor and host of the Power Play podcast , Anne McElvoy . Here , 2016 felt even more distant in the rearview mirror . <p> Alex , in 2016 working on the metro desk for the New York Times , was the only reporter who watched Trump come down the golden escalator and declare his candidacy for president the first time round . Dismissed as a publicity stunt , Trump 's brash style and promise to make America great again seemed a very long way from how real politics is done . Fast forward eight years , very few are debating how long it will be before politics " returns to normal . " Even before he 's taken office , Trump 's impact on global politics -- Ukraine , the Middle East , calculations on trade -- is being felt rather than contested . <p> That is apparent , too , in many of this week 's highlights in the list below . I hope you find them thought-provoking and that you have a very restful weekend . <p> All the best , <p> Kate Day <p> Deputy editor-in-chief <h> EDITOR 'S CHOICE <p> POLITICO 28 -- Ranking the most influential people in Europe : Class of 2025 <p> On a continent reeling from economic malaise , wars at its doorstep , the resurgence of the far right and a looming cold shoulder from its longtime ally in Washington , many of Europe 's traditional power players find themselves sidelined -- defanged and disoriented . With their influence waning , this leaves space for others -- often from unexpected or unconventional quarters -- to fill the void . The 10th edition of POLITICO 's annual ranking of Europe 's doers , dreamers and disrupters is a snapshot of power as judged by journalists and the insiders with whom they speak . Read the story . <p> Europe 's next top diplomat is ready to be undiplomatic <p> The definitive profile of Kaja Kallas , the EU 's new foreign policy chief who as Estonian prime minister was n't afraid to ruffle more prominent leaders like former German Chancellor Angela Merkel or Hungarian premier Viktor Orb ? n . The question for her now is which is the most powerful force : her outspokenness or the muffling confines of her new role ? Read the story . <p> So-called Europa Experience museums have sprung up around the EU and cost taxpayers millions . Our Brussels Playbook team got their hands on documents that showed just how much . Full of juicy details -- such as the fact that the EU taxpayer coughs up ? 92 per visitor to the Europa Experience in Paris , or just 9,000 people visited the Copenhagen location in 2023 -- the story also revealed that the European Parliament 's Secretary-General Alessandro Chiocchetti has called for a rethink of the project . Read the story . <p> Is Le Pen about to blow up France ? <p> Marine Le Pen has an almost impossible task ahead of her -- she must appease her populist base while also proving to the wider French public that her party will be responsible stewards of government . Can she do it ? And how are insiders weighing the calculation ? Read the story . <p> Syrians face return to a shattered nation <p> While European governments rushed to formulate plans to send asylum-seekers back to Syria , our data team produced this sharp reality check , laying out the incredibly bleak and heartbreaking conditions that exist in the country after decades of brutal dictatorship . Read the story . <p> France , Poland to discuss Ukraine peacekeeping force <p> As French President Emmanuel Macron prepared to jet off to Poland to talk postwar peacekeeping forces in Ukraine , our reporters in Brussels and France got ahead of the story . They spoke to diplomats and officials about Europe 's plan to expand its military responsibilities in Ukraine in anticipation of Donald Trump 's return to the White House -- publishing hours ahead of competitors . Read the story . <p> Here 's what 's new in the EU-Mercosur trade deal <p> European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen 's trip to Uruguay to seal the deal on a massive new trade agreement between the EU and South American countries went down a storm in Europe , delighting her native Germany while inciting fury in France . Our Trade team got their hands on the agreed text , which will now go to national capitals for consideration . Here , they laid out five things you need to know . Read the story . <h> YOUR WEEKEND PLAYLIST <p> This week 's episode of EU Confidential takes you inside the POLITICO 28 gala , where we revealed our list of the people who will drive the year ahead . Host Sarah Wheaton is joined by POLITICO Editor-in-Chief Jamil Anderlini and Senior Reporter Aitor Hern ? ndez-Morales to discuss how a vacuum in the EU 's traditional power centers and growing disillusionment with traditional parties is giving rise to a new class of influential Doers , Dreamers and Disrupters in this year 's power ranking . Among them : EU foreign policy chief Kaja Kallas , who Sarah interviewed at this week 's P28 gala . <p> Then , we 'll check in on Romania , where a court recently canceled a presidential election that drove ultranationalist Calin Georgescu into the second round . The court cited malign interference on TikTok , but opposition figures say it 's just the establishment trying to hold on to power . POLITICO 's Carmen Paun and Pieter Haeck unpack how it 's playing out in Bucharest and Brussels . Listen to the episode . <p> Westminster Insider : Westminster 's class war over private schools <p> For centuries , Westminster has been dominated by politicians who attended some of the most prestigious schools in the country . This week on Westminster Insider , host Sascha O'Sullivan finds out whether public schools still dominate or if state educated Rachel Reeves and Bridget Phillipson 's move to tax fees reflects the end of the era of Etonians . Listen to the episode . <p> Power Play : Donald Trump will shape Europe and the UK . Are they ready ? <p> The president-elect 's in-tray is filling up fast . Wars in Gaza , Ukraine and the fallen regime in Syria are among the many geopolitical shifts facing Donald Trump 's new administration , alongside a spate of challenges at home . Is the United States -- and the world -- ready for Trump 2.0 ? <p> This week , Power Play brings you a trio of POLITICO insiders to reflect on Trump 's historic election win and what it will mean for those across the pond . Host Anne McElvoy is joined by Kate Day , POLITICO Europe 's deputy editor-in-chief , and Alex Burns , head of news , who flew in from Washington . Their conversation was recorded in front of a live audience of Westminster 's movers and shakers at iNHouse in central London . Listen to the episode .
