<h> Delay , deny , depose ... detained <p> Sit yourself down and let out a big sigh of relief : thanks to the tireless work of the Florida police force , everyone in the US can now feel a little bit safer . On Tuesday , Florida 's Lakeland police department charged Briana Boston , a 42-year-old mother of three , with threats to conduct a mass shooting or act of terrorism . <p> What did Boston do , exactly ? She was rude to a customer service representative . Boston had reportedly just had a medical claim denied by her health insurance company , Blue Cross Blue Shield , and allegedly said to the person on the phone : " Delay , deny , depose . You people are next . " This appears to have been a reference to the words written on ammunition discovered at the scene of the killing of the UnitedHealthcare CEO , Brian Thompson . <p> Boston has apologized for what she said and reportedly told police she did n't mean anything by it . And there 's no reason , with the information we have now , to think otherwise . Referencing a high-profile assassination was obviously extremely poor judgment on her part . However , to any reasonable person , this whole thing sounds like a woman lashing out at a corporation rather than a credible death threat against an individual . Boston has never had any criminal charges or convictions , according to her attorney . She also told police that she does n't own any guns , and if the police found any in her house they have n't shared this information yet . <p> If Boston 's home is later found to have a bunch of disguises , a 3D-printed gun and a manifesto , I will , of course , eat my words and any hats that are available . As it stands , charging Boston with threats to conduct a mass shooting or an act of terrorism seems a hell of a lot like overreach -- as does the fact that the judge has set her bond at $100,000 . The charge is a second-degree felony , which could be punished by up to 15 years in prison if she is convicted . <p> The good news here , however , is that the police seem to be interested in taking vague threats seriously now . So , if that 's the case , I 'd like to cordially invite them to come over to my house and take a look at some of the correspondence I get sent . Like every woman who has the temerity to express an opinion on the internet , I regularly get sent death and rape threats . I regularly get people harassing me with language that is a lot more explicit than " delay , deny , depose " . I normally just ignore all this because it 's best not to feed the trolls , and I know the police wo n't do anything . But at one point , when I got an extremely unsettling object sent to my home address , I went to the police . What did they do ? Yep , you 've guessed it : absolutely nothing . <p> My experience with the police is extremely common . Forget online harassment -- police do n't even take it seriously when a woman is being physically stalked or abused . You can find endless stories -- from all over the world -- about the police ignoring or minimizing violence against women . There 's the case of California woman Pamela Motley , for example , who received violent threats from her ex-husband , Paul Motley . Police made no attempt to arrest him and even " told Pamela that she should not be too worried because ' These guys only follow through 1% of the time ' " . Paul then shot Pamela in the face , paralyzing her . <p> Even a high-profile celebrity like Lily Allen has talked about being failed by the police when she was stalked for seven years . According to Allen , the police did n't take her stalker seriously until he entered her home and stole her handbag . " With a justice system that is obsessed with property rights , there 's little space for keeping women safe , " one activist commented about Allen 's case at the time . <p> The police 's newfound zest for taking threats seriously has n't gone unnoticed online . As soon as Boston 's story went public , social media was full of viral stories from women about how the police had ignored harassment because " a crime had n't been committed " . The double standards are stark . I 'd bet pretty much everything I have that if , instead of threatening a health insurance company , Ms Boston had gone to the police and told them that she was being stalked by an abusive ex-boyfriend , they 'd have shrugged their shoulders and told her there was nothing they could do until she had actual proof her life was in imminent danger . <p> The seemingly disproportionate response to the 42-year-old mother 's outburst appears to be an attempt by law enforcement and the legal system to make an example of Boston . " I do find that the bond of $100,000 is appropriate considering the status of our country at this point , " the judge in Boston 's case said . It 's clear that , as resentment towards health insurance companies in the US reaches a boiling point , the judge and the police want to send a message . Mission accomplished , they 've sent one ! The message being : we care far more about the protection of wealthy CEOs than everyday violence against women . <h> Call for end to ' draconian ' police cautions for sex workers <p> In England and Wales , a police caution , typically issued for minor crimes , is filtered out from someone 's record after six years . However , thousands of women are thought to have received what is known as " prostitute 's caution " -- a draconian type of caution reserved for the punishment of sex workers . Police do n't need much evidence to issue one , and the caution will show up on a background check until the " offender " is 100 years old . Sex workers and lawmakers have now demanded that police forces are immediately stopped from issuing these cautions . <h> Tokyo government gives workers four-day workweek to boost fertility <p> " We will review work styles ... with flexibility , ensuring no one has to give up their career due to life events such as childbirth or childcare , " said the Tokyo governor , Yuriko Koike . <h> Jay-Z 's condescending response to the accusation that he and Diddy raped a 13-year-old girl is troubling <p> " Jay-Z 's response to this lawsuit and the blowback from his supporters is a stunning display of the culture of silence and complicity in hip-hop which continues to harm women and girls , " writes Tayo Bero . <h> University of Cambridge urged to apologise over jailing of thousands of ' evil ' women <p> For almost 350 years , starting in 1561 , the University of Cambridge had the power to arrest and imprison any woman " suspected of evil " . None of the women got a fair trial , said Caroline Biggs , author of a book about the phenomenon : " The university did n't really care how they were treated . They wanted the women to be removed from the streets so they could n't tempt the undergraduates . " <h> Death feels imminent for 96% of children in Gaza <p> The western media seems to have given up covering Gaza now -- and it 's becoming harder to get news about what 's happening as Palestinian journalists continue to get killed by Israel . However , what Amnesty International has termed a genocide is still very much ongoing . There are new massacres every day , and , according to a recent study , 96% of kids in Gaza feel that their death is imminent and almost half want to die as a result of the trauma they have been through . <h> Trump says he wo n't restrict abortion pill <h> The week in porktriarchy <p> I hope Peppa Pig has her PR people on speed dial , because it 's not been a very good news week for the world-famous cartoon piglet . For starters , KeiraKnightley has said she 's decided not to have another kid because she simply can not watch any more Peppa . Meanwhile , a Spanish MP has blamed Peppa Pig for the lack of women in the construction industry . This accusation sparked outrage from a politician in the UK who has rushed to Peppa Pig 's defence and accused his Spanish counterpart of spreading porkies.
