<h> Accessibility Links <h> Eoin Hayes takes a 22-minute nosedive from hero to zero <h> Party 's holier-than-thou spirit came back to bite the Social Democrats TD over his shares in Palantir <p> Gary Murphy <p> Sunday December 15 2024 , 12.01am , The Sunday Times <p> While some will have sympathy for Eoin Hayes , the Social Democrat TD for Dublin Bay South who found himself in the eye of a media storm last Tuesday morning , to others he is the epitome of a hypocrisy that transcends the political class . <p> It was a classic hero to zero moment in 20-odd excruciating minutes for Hayes , a party darling having unexpectedly taken a seat in one of the state 's toughest constituencies . <p> It should have been the crowning glory of the party 's general election triumph . Hayes and seven other Soc Dem TDs strolled onto the famous plinth at Leinster House , faces beaming , ready to tell the assembled media that they were ready for government if their demands on affordable housing , climate change targets and the full implementation of Slaintecare were met by the bigger parties . <p> It all went disastrously wrong when the question was raised over Hayes 's shares in Palantir , the company he worked for between 2015 and 2017 , and which supplies various technologies to the Israel Defence Forces . Amid varying degrees of obfuscation , Hayes stated that he divested completely from those shares but refused to say when , beyond insisting no fewer than 23 times that it was before he entered politics . <p> The 22-minute back and forth between Hayes and the journalist pack was among the most surreal in the long and storied history of the famous plinth . There have been other dramatic moments on that dais but none quite as embarrassing as this one . <h> Advertisement <p> No one in the Social Democrats seemed prepared for the questions that were put to Hayes . This was a serious collective error of judgment . After all , it came just five days after the Irish Daily Mail splashed a story on its front page that Hayes had worked for what it called Israeli army software suppliers . <p> What on earth did the Social Democrats who appeared in Leinster House on Tuesday think they were going to be asked about ? Government formation or their success in the general election , you might say . Quite . <p> But seeing as the party has made such a big deal over its support for the Occupied Territories Bill and its condemnation of the Israeli war machine in Gaza , it should have dawned on its leadership that Hayes 's remuneration from Palantir would be a topic for inquisition . Apparently not , and both Hayes and the Social Democrats paid a heavy price in the court of public opinion . <p> One can only imagine what went on inside the Social Democrats ' office in Leinster House once the press conference ended . There surely must have been a " WTF Eoin " or two thrown at the TD for Dublin Bay South . <h> Advertisement <p> The Social Democrats acted quickly in suspending Hayes from the party and , despite his protestations that he looked forward to regaining the party 's trust , there must be serious doubts he will ever be welcomed back into the purple fold . <p> The party 's TD for Dublin Central , Gary Gannon , who himself had a very good election , comfortably retaining his seat , was sent out to the radio stations last Thursday to talk about the government formation meetings that the Soc Dems had with Fianna Fail and Fine Gael . He told Newstalk that " we never claimed to be pure " -- an interesting comment given that one of the complaints many in politics have about the Social Democrats is that they possess a purity of virtue that other parties can not match . <p> But if the Social Democrats have an image of themselves as pure and virtuous , it is nothing compared with the warriors of the far left . Richard Boyd Barrett , Paul Murphy and Ruth Coppinger took to the plinth in the aftermath of the political carnage of the Social Democrats ' press conference to say that if Hayes were in People Before Profit-Solidarity he would be expelled and that the whole episode was disgraceful . <p> This was followed by demands from Sinn Fein that Hayes resign his seat , which Matt Carthy claimed was won under false pretences and otherwise would have gone to Chris Andrews -- a point mirrored by Murphy . The problem with this , of course , is that if Hayes did resign and trigger a by-election , it would almost certainly be won by Fine Gael 's Emma Blain . The figures speak for themselves . Fine Gael won 25.5 per cent of the vote at the general election in Dublin Bay South , more than double what Sinn Fein received . <p> Hayes may have inadvertently misled voters at the general election about his shareholding in a firm at which he once worked , and his main problem at the press conference was his insistence that he sold his shares before entering politics . This was simply not true , and he must have known it . Andrews might well have won the seat if the information we now know about Hayes was in the public domain at the election , but our electoral system does not work on what-might-have-beens . <h> Advertisement <p> The other ethical news this week was the Standards in Public Office Commission 's report that Fianna Fail 's Robert Troy contravened the Ethics Act in respect of declaration of properties , a contract and a directorship in 2020 and 2021 . It accepted that his failure to declare some of these interests was inadvertent and he had no intent to conceal information . <p> The commission says that it did not release the report , which was completed five weeks before the general election , due to its role as an impartial and independent body . This makes no sense , and Murphy is clearly right in his complaint that this decision denied the people of Longford-Westmeath all the information they should have had in advance of the election . I suspect Troy would have been elected anyway but public life does not stop because an election is imminent . <p> If one seeks public office , one must act to the highest ethical standards . What the Hayes and Troy cases show is that the electorate should have as much information about those who aspire to public office as possible without things slipping into the bounds of the prurient . They can then make up their minds .
