<p> The Israeli Knesset has approved plans to increase the number of settlers in the Golan Heights , territory that was seized from Syria in 1967 . <p> The announcement comes after the dramatic downfall last week of President Bashar al-Assad , with Israel 's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu saying that a " new front " had opened up in Syria close to Israel 's border . <p> The " demographic development " plan to increase settler numbers only applies to the area of the Golan Heights that Israel seized during the Six Day War in 1967 and later annexed in 1981 and not to territory taken since al-Assad 's ouster . <p> Netanyahu praised the plan which comes with 40 million shekels ( ? 10 million ) in funding with the aim of doubling the settler population in the territory . <p> Currently , there are an estimated 31,000 Israelis living in settlements considered illegal under international law across the Golan Heights . <p> The Israeli settlers live alongside around 20,000 Syrians , most of them Druze Arabs , who did not flee the area when it fell to Israel . <p> But in a television address on Sunday night , Netanyahu said Israel was not seeking a conflict with Syria . <p> " We have no interest in confronting Syria . We will determine Israel 's policy towards Syria according to the emerging reality on the ground , " he said . <p> " I remind you that for decades Syria was an active enemy state to Israel . It attacked us again and again , it allowed others to attack us from its territory , it allowed Iran to arm Hezbollah through its territory . " <p> Since rebel groups spearheaded by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) marched into Damascus last Sunday and brought an end to al-Assad 's 24-year rule , Israel has conducted hundreds of air strikes across Syria , it says to destroy weapons dumps to prevent them falling into the hands of terrorists . <p> Those strikes have been criticised by Syria 's de-facto leader and head of HTS , Ahmed al-Sharaa , who said they " crossed red lines " and risked escalating tensions across the Middle East . <h> Criticism from the Gulf States <p> Israel 's proposal to expand settler numbers in the Golan Heights has been criticised by both Saudi Arabia and Qatar . <p> In a statement , the Saudi Foreign Ministry called the proposal an attempt " to sabotage Syria 's opportunities for security and stability . " <p> While the Qatari Foreign Ministry called the plan " a new episode in a series of Israeli aggressions on Syrian territories and a blatant violation of international law . " <p> Separately , a delegation from Doha is currently in Damascus ahead of Tuesday 's re-opening of Qatar 's embassy in Syria , which has been closed since 2011 in response to al-Assad 's brutal crackdown on anti-government protesters . <p> A Syrian rebel removes a poster of Bashar al-Assad from the entrance to a notorious detention centre in Damascus , 14 December , 2024 - Hussein Malla/Copyright 2024 The AP . All right reserved <p> Meanwhile , Foreign Secretary David Lammy has said the British government is in " diplomatic contact " with the HTS rebel group . <p> Lammy noted that HTS remains a proscribed terrorist organisation but that the UK " can have diplomatic contact and so we do have diplomatic contact . " <p> When HTS was established in 2011 , it was a direct affiliate of Al-Qaeda and a senior figure in the so-called Islamic State was involved in its foundation . <p> HTS later severed links with both groups . <p> Lammy 's announcement comes a day after Secretary of State Antony Blinken said in a press conference in Jordan that Washington had had " direct contact " with the HTS rebels and laid out the principles for ongoing US support for Syria 's political transition . <h> Latest stories <p> STORY : Israeli forces on Sunday patrolled inside a recently-seized demilitarized zone along the border with Syria ... ... as Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu announced plans to double the number of Israelis living in the part of the Golan Heights Israel captured from Syria in a 1967 war.Netanyahu 's office said the government unanimously approved a more than $11 million plan to encourage demographic growth in the Golan.It said Netanyahu submitted the plan to the government " in light of the war and the new front-facing Syria , and out of a desire to double the population in the Golan . " : : Israeli ArmyIsrael sent its troops into a longstanding buffer zone earlier this month as Syrian rebels ousted the long-reigning president , Bashar al-Assad.Saudi Arabia , the United Arab Emirates and Jordan have condemned the incursion.Israeli leaders said it was a temporary security measure in light of the instability in Syria. : : Israeli ArmyAmid the tumult in Syria , Israel airstrikes targeted hundreds of military sites across the country. : : FileSyria 's de facto leader , Ahmad al-Sharaa , said on Saturday that Israel was using false pretexts to justify its attacks on Syria.He also said he was not interested in engaging in new conflicts as his country focuses on rebuilding.Sharaa - better known as Abu Mohammed al-Golani - leads the Islamist Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( or HTS ) , the group that swept Assad from power last Sunday , ending the family 's five-decade iron-fisted rule. : : FileIsrael annexed captured parts of the Golan Heights in 1981 . Syria has long rejected Israeli claims to the territory , but past efforts to reach a peace treaty failed.In 2019 , then-President Donald Trump declared U.S. support for Israeli sovereignty over the Golan . But the annexation has not been recognized by most countries . <p> The Israeli government approved on Sunday a plan to increase the population of the annexed Golan Heights , while insisting it had no intention of confronting Syria after seizing a UN-monitored buffer zone.On Sunday , his office said the government approved a plan to double the population on the Israeli-held Golan Heights . <p> Syria 's de facto leader , Ahmad al-Sharaa said on Saturday Israel is using false pretexts to justify its attacks on Syria , but that he is not interested in engaging in new conflicts as the country focuses on rebuilding following the end of Bashar al-Assad 's reign . Sharaa - better known as Abu Mohammed al-Golani - leads the Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) group that swept Assad from power last week , ending the family 's five-decade iron-fisted rule . Israel has since moved into a demilitarised zone inside Syria created after the 1973 Arab-Israeli war , including the Syrian side of the strategic Mount Hermon that overlooks Damascus , where it took over an abandoned Syrian military post . <p> JERUSALEM ( Reuters ) -Israel agreed on Sunday to double its population on the occupied Golan Heights while saying threats from Syria remained despite the moderate tone of rebel leaders who ousted President Bashar al-Assad a week ago . Israel captured most of the strategic plateau from Syria in the 1967 Six-Day War , annexing it in 1981 . In 2019 then-President Donald Trump declared U.S. support for Israeli sovereignty over the Golan , but the annexation has not been recognised by most countries . <p> Palestine detention center , known in Arabic as Fare'a Falstine , is one of the prisons where its detainees were tortured physically and psychologically and without any clear charges against them , according to insurgents . It 's among many detention centres where prisoners have been freed after Bashar Assad 's government was toppled last weekend . ( AP video shot by Ghaith AlSayed ) <p> Snow accumulated in parts of central West Virginia on Sunday , December 15 , as a " wintry precipitation " swept over parts of the Appalachian region , the National Weather Service said.This footage was posted by X user @LASBooks , who said they filmed it in Martinsburg on Sunday afternoon.A winter storm warning was issued for parts of Maryland and West Virginia until Monday morning . Credit : @LASBooks via Storyful <p> Hundreds of students at Damascus University trampled on a statue of one of Syria 's former rulers on Sunday , expressing jubilation as they returned to class a week after rebels ousted Bashar al-Assad.Bashar al-Assad ruled from his father Hafez 's death in 2000 until last week when rebels took the capital Damascus , more than 13 years after his repression of pro-democracy protests sparked Syria 's civil war . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu spoke with U.S. President-elect Donald Trump about developments in Syria and a recent push to secure the release of Israeli and foreign hostages held by Hamas in Gaza , he said on Sunday . Netanyahu said he spoke with Trump on Saturday night about the issue , which will loom large as one of the main foreign challenges facing Trump when he takes office if it is not resolved before he is sworn in on Jan. 20.
