<h> Syria after Assad : As a new era dawns , could there be hope for Palestine ? <p> The dream of seeing all Arab peoples living in dignity has become possible once again <p> People wave Syrian opposition flags as they gather outside the Syrian embassy , after rebels announced that they have ousted Syria 's Bashar al-Assad , in London , 8 December 2024 ( Reuters ) <p> For our generation , the fall of the Assad regime marks the end of a historical chapter , coming more than a decade after the Syrian regime - backed by Russia and Iran - brutally suppressed the Syrian revolution , shattering the dreams of democratisation held by many young people across the Arab world . <p> But on Sunday , as Syrian opposition forces entered Damascus and ended the Assad family 's decades-long rule , we were reminded of a fundamental truth : no tyrannical regime or colonial entity can endure forever , as long as human resistance and the inherent desire for dignity and freedom persist . <p> Naturally , the world is preoccupied with questions about Syria 's future , and with good reason . Will the country 's political transition lead to democracy , or will it spiral into endless sectarian and religious conflicts that threaten its very existence ? <p> Despite all possible scenarios , nothing can justify the horrors of Syria 's prisons , or the unimaginable suffering inflicted on men , women and even children born into a living hell . <p> But more than a decade after the Arab Spring , hope has finally returned to our hearts . <h> New MEE newsletter : Jerusalem Dispatch <h> Sign up to get the latest insights and analysis on Israel-Palestine , alongside Turkey Unpacked and other MEE newsletters <p> Putting aside the certainty of political commentators on both sides , including supporters and opponents of former President Bashar al-Assad , nothing is guaranteed . Syria 's fate ultimately rests on the ability of its political elites to confront the country 's internal and external challenges . <p> Today , more than ever , it is important to emphasise the moral and political value of democratic governance , especially in a country like Syria . <h> Historical ties <p> Contrary to the western Orientalist perspective , Arab peoples - and especially the Syrian people - are inherently diverse : religiously , ethnically , socially and ideologically . Any attempt to impose the rule of one group over others is doomed to fail , leading either to a repressive dictatorship or perpetual instability fuelled by inevitable resistance . <p> Indeed , we can not ignore the elephant in the room that resurfaces whenever the Syrian issue is raised : the question of Israel . <p> Palestinians and Syrians have long seen themselves as part of a shared region , connected by cultural , religious and familial ties formed over centuries . These bonds have served as a deep foundation for resistance to Zionist colonialism on Palestinian lands . <p> Given this context , any regime in Syria , even under former President Hafez al-Assad , has been expected to oppose Israel . The political discourse on Syria often focuses on its membership in the " axis of resistance " , stretching from Iran to Hezbollah in Lebanon . I am not among those who dismiss this alignment outright , but I also recognise that Syria 's role in the resistance bloc was a byproduct of geopolitical constraints . <p> The final say belongs to the Syrian people . In the end , only they can determine Syria 's future <p> This complex reality highlights how the Palestinian cause can not justify internal oppression by any regime . The excuse of " resistance to Israel " has too often been exploited by authoritarian regimes to justify dictatorship and unprecedented violence against their own people . <p> Even more troubling is the paternalistic and arrogant assumption by such regimes that only they know how to resist Israel , while anyone opposing their brutality is dismissed as naive or manipulated by western imperialism . This dangerous logic has been used to delegitimise human rights discourse and to silence demands for civil liberties . <p> An Arab democratic order where people get to elect their rulers in a free and fair manner is probably the biggest threat to Israel . <p> Arab peoples have a basic and universal right to live in dignity , to enjoy fair judicial processes grounded in the rule of law , and to be governed by a constitutional framework ensuring checks and balances , along with collective and individual rights - all of which can be provided only by a democratic system . <h> Agency of the people <p> The assumption that Israel , the West , or other foreign powers orchestrated the fall of the Assad regime insults the strength and will of the Syrian people . It dismisses their courageous protests , resistance and sacrifices in the face of unimaginable brutality . <p> Furthermore , Israel is not all-powerful : despite a century of colonisation in Palestine , backed by western military and economic support , Israel has failed to crush the Palestinian people , who live in a relatively small geographic area . How , then , could it control the fate of a country as complex as Syria ? <p> Of course , Israel , the US , Russia , Turkey and various Arab states have all played - and continue to play - roles in Syria . This is the unfortunate reality of the region 's geopolitical landscape , where all actors pursue their own interests . <p> But despite these interventions , the final say belongs to the Syrian people . In the end , only they can determine Syria 's future , for better or worse - and they still have agency . <p> On the Palestinian cause , the Syrian people are no different from other Arab nations in recognising its importance . They view it as an inherently Arab struggle , rooted in its symbolic value and the shared understanding that Israel remains a foreign entity in the region 's consciousness - one perceived as working against the interests of Arab peoples . <p> I do not know what Syria 's future holds , but I ca n't deny the joy I felt upon seeing videos of thousands of prisoners being released from the country 's hellish detention centres . After a year and two months of witnessing genocide in Gaza , seeing children reunited with parents they believed they would never see again brought a rare moment of hope . <p> For the first time in more than a decade , we saw joy on the faces of Syrian children as they embraced their mothers and fathers after years of separation and imprisonment . For the first time in what feels like forever , hope for change in the Arab world has returned . The dream of seeing all Arab peoples living in dignity has become possible once again . <p> History is still being written - and so is hope . <p> The views expressed in this article belong to the author and do not necessarily reflect the editorial policy of Middle East Eye . <p> Abed Abou Shhadeh is a political activist based in Jaffa . Abou Shhadeh served as a city council representative of the Palestinian community in Jaffa-Tel Aviv from 2018 to 2024 and he holds an MA degree in political science from Tel Aviv university <p> Middle East Eye delivers independent and unrivalled coverage and analysis of the Middle East , North Africa and beyond . To learn more about republishing this content and the associated fees , please fill out this form . More about MEE can be found here .
