<h> Israel to close Ireland embassy over Gaza tensions as Palestinian death toll nears 45,000 <h> Israel said it will close its embassy in Ireland as relations deteriorated over the war in Gaza , where Palestinian medical officials said new Israeli airstrikes killed over 30 people including several children <p> Israel announced on Sunday that it will shutter its embassy in Ireland amidst escalating tensions over the conflict in Gaza , where Palestinian officials report that recent Israeli airstrikes have claimed the lives of more than 30 individuals , including several children . The move to close the embassy is a direct response to what Israel 's Foreign Minister has labelled as Ireland 's " extreme anti-Israel policies . " <p> Earlier in May , Israel had withdrawn its ambassador from Dublin following Ireland 's decision -- joined by Norway , Spain , and Slovenia -- to recognise a Palestinian state . <p> Last week , the Irish government resolved to formally participate in South Africa 's lawsuit against Israel at the International Court of Justice , which accuses Israel of genocide in Gaza , an allegation Israel vehemently denies . <p> " We are concerned that a very narrow interpretation of what constitutes genocide leads to a culture of impunity in which the protection of civilians is minimized , " stated Micheal Martin , Ireland 's Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs . Gideon Saar , the Israeli Foreign Minister , expressed his stance on the embassy closure , asserting that " Ireland has crossed every red line in its relations with Israel . " <p> Simon Harris , the Irish Prime Minister , described the closure of the embassy as " deeply regrettable . " He firmly dismissed the notion that Ireland holds an anti-Israel stance , saying : " I utterly reject the assertion that Ireland is anti-Israel . Ireland is pro-peace , pro-human rights and pro-international law . " <p> Meanwhile , Israeli military operations continued unabated in the largely cut-off northern region of Gaza , with the Palestinian casualty count in the ongoing war nearing 45,000 . <p> One airstrike targeted the Khalil Aweida school in Beit Hanoun , resulting in at least 15 fatalities , as reported by the nearby Kamal Adwan Hospital where the injured were taken . The casualties included a couple and their daughter , as well as a father and his son , the hospital confirmed . <p> In Gaza City , a series of three airstrikes hit homes housing displaced individuals , leading to the deaths of at least 17 people , among them six women and five children , Al-Ahli Baptist Hospital stated . " We woke up to the strike . I woke up with the rubble on top of me , " recounted Yahia al-Yazji , who was mourning the loss of his wife and daughter . <p> " I found my wife with her head and skull visible , and my daughter 's intestines were gone . My wife was three months pregnant . " <p> He spoke while resting his hand on a body shrouded in a blanket on the ground . The Israeli military announced it had targeted a " terrorist cell " in Gaza City and a " terrorist meeting point " in Beit Hanoun . <p> Another air raid claimed the life of Palestinian journalist Ahmed al-Lawh , who worked for Al Jazeera , as confirmed by a hospital and the Qatari-based broadcaster . This strike impacted a location used by Gaza 's civil defense agency in the densely populated Nuseirat refugee camp , Al-Awda Hospital reported . <p> Additionally , three civil defense workers , including the head of the agency in Nuseirat , were killed , as per information from al-Aqsa Martyrs hospital . The civil defense serves as Gaza 's principal rescue organization and functions under the governance of Hamas . <p> The conflict in Gaza was triggered when Hamas and other militants from the region launched an attack on southern Israel on 7th October 2023 , resulting in approximately 1,200 fatalities and over 200 hostages . In response , Israel 's counter-offensive has led to nearly 45,000 Palestinian deaths , as reported by Gaza 's Health Ministry . <p> The ministry does not differentiate between combatants and civilians in its count , but it states that more than half of those killed have been women and children . <p> Story Saved <p> You can find this story in My Bookmarks.Or by navigating to the user icon in the top right .
