<p> Earlier this year , the Irish Government officially recognised the Palestinian state and , this week , it emerged that Ireland will formally intervene in South Africa 's genocide case against Israel at the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) . <p> Israel 's ambassador to Dublin was recalled in May following the Palestinian state recognition . <p> Mr Saar said : " The actions and antisemitic rhetoric used by Ireland against Israel are rooted in the de-legitimisation and demonisation of the Jewish state , along with double standards . <p> " Ireland has crossed every red line in its relations with Israel . <p> " Israel will invest its resources in advancing bilateral relations with countries worldwide according to priorities that also take into account the attitudes and actions of these states towards Israel . " <p> Mr Harris responded : " I am deeply disappointed by the Israeli government 's decision to close its embassy in Dublin . <p> " Ireland 's foreign policy is founded on our deep commitment to dialogue and to the peaceful resolution of disputes . <p> " Resident embassies play a very important role in that regard . <p> " Keeping channels open has never been more important so that we can better understand each other 's positions , even when we disagree . " <p> Ireland wants a two state solution and for Israel and Palestine to live in peace and security . Ireland will always speak up for human rights and international law . Nothing will distract from that . <p> He continued : " I utterly reject the assertion that Ireland is anti-Israel . <p> " Ireland is pro-peace , pro-human rights and pro-international law . <p> " Ireland wants a two-state solution and for Israel and Palestine to live in peace and security . <p> " Ireland will always speak up for human rights and international law . Nothing will distract from that . " <p> Tanaiste Micheal Martin said Ireland would not be closing its embassy in Israel ( Brian Lawless/PA ) <p> Tanaiste Mr Martin said he believed in the importance of maintaining diplomatic channels of communication . <p> He said : " Ireland 's position on the conflict in the Middle East has always been guided by the principles of international law and the obligation on all states to adhere to international humanitarian law . <p> " This has been the case with regard to our response to the terrorist attack by Hamas in Israel on October 7 2023 , and to the conduct by Israel of its military operations since then . <p> " The continuation of the war in Gaza and the loss of innocent lives is simply unacceptable and contravenes international law . <p> " It represents the collective punishment of the Palestinian people in Gaza . We need an immediate ceasefire , the release of all hostages and a surge of humanitarian aid into Gaza . " <p> Mr Martin said Ireland and Israel will continue to maintain diplomatic relations , adding : " Inherent in that is the right to agree and disagree on fundamental points . <p> " There are no plans to close Ireland 's embassy in Israel , which is carrying out important work . " <p> A man has fallen to his death at a busy shopping centre in Birmingham . The man fell from the upper level of the Bullring Centre at around 9pm on Friday and was pronounced dead at the scene . The Bullring was reportedly closed following the incident . <p> Two Russian tankers in the Black Sea have been badly damaged due to stormy weather , according to the Interfax news agency . At least one person has been killed , and an emergency rescue operation is under way to evacuate both crews . Russian investigators say they have opened two criminal cases to look into possible safety violations . <p> Shocked and bruised , a survivor of a shooting at a migrant camp near Dunkirk has told Sky News how he saw his friends murdered by " the angel of death " . Two migrants and two security guards were shot dead by a 22-year-old French gunman at a migrant camp in Loon-Plage on Saturday , while a further victim was targeted in a nearby town , according to local media . The two migrants had just returned from the coast after being rescued in the middle of the English Channel after a failed attempt to reach Britain . <p> Personal photos of ousted Syrian President Bashar Assad have surfaced from his abandoned residences , sparking ridicule among Syrians who until days ago were persecuted for criticizing his carefully crafted public image . The intimate and candid photos , reportedly discovered in albums from Assad 's mansions in the hills of Damascus and Aleppo , offer a stark contrast to the polished , glamorous image that Assad and his father projected as they led Syria for half a century . Syrians have been fascinated by the background glimpses of a seemingly normal family that held the country in an iron grip and bombed some their fellow citizens regarded as a threat . <p> Russia mounted a rescue effort Sunday after two oil tankers were wrecked in rough seas off Moscow-annexed Crimea and one broke apart , killing at least one sailor and causing an oil spill . Two criminal cases have been opened by Russian investigators . A Russian oil tanker carrying thousands of tonnes of oil products split apart during a heavy storm on Sunday , spilling oil into the Kerch Strait , while another tanker was also in distress after sustaining damage , Russian officials said.The vessels we <p> More migrants have been removed from the UK since Labour was elected than in any other six-month period over the past five years , the government has claimed . The Home Office announced today that almost 13,460 people had been removed since Sir Keir Starmer 's Labour Party won by a landslide in July . It claimed the government was " on track " to deliver on its pledge to return more people who do not have a right to stay in the UK halfway through their first year in office than any other six-month period since 2019 . <p> DEIR AL-BALAH , Gaza Strip ( AP ) -- Israel said Sunday it will close its embassy in Ireland as relations deteriorated over the war in Gaza , where Palestinian medical officials said new Israeli airstrikes killed over 46 people including several children . The decision to close the embassy came in response to what Israel 's foreign minister has described as Ireland 's " extreme anti-Israel policies . " In May , Israel recalled its ambassador to Dublin after Ireland announced , along with Norway , Spain and Slovenia , it would recognize a Palestinian state .
