<p> Dawson was fired this week after allegations that she made anti-Semitic comments . Her alleged remarks were as stark as they were revealing . More than a year after the Hamas attack on Israel -- and the subsequent eruption of Jew-hatred across American college campuses -- Dawson reportedly said that Jewish students do not need her office 's diversity services because they are " wealthy and privileged " . <p> Dawson was also accused of saying that her university is " controlled by wealthy Jews " and that " Jewish people have no genetic DNA that would connect them to the land of Israel " . The comments were revealed by The New York Times via a Freedom of Information request . <p> Her lawyer denied that she said anything anti-Semitic and said that Dawson will sue the university for violating her First Amendment Rights . A university investigation , meanwhile , failed to conclude precisely what Dawson said because her comments had not been recorded . <p> But the story is still likely to electrify the debate about the costs of DEI at major universities , and add grist to the mill of once and future president Trump , who has vowed to crack down on the virulent woke ideologies that have infiltrated America 's academic and corporate establishments . <p> Rachel Dawson has been fired over her alleged comments <p> The University of Michigan serves as a fitting front line for the battle over DEI . Known as the " wokest " university in America , the school has reportedly spent at least $250 million on DEI-related programming since 2016 . It 's also been the site of some of the nation 's highest-profile anti-Semitic and anti-Israel outrages since the war in Gaza began -- including a recent graffiti incident against the home of a Jewish Board of Regents member . <p> And therein lies the problem -- at a moment of unprecedented anti-Semitism across college campuses , an ideological commitment to diversity and inclusion is not acting to help Jewish students . It 's being used as a justification to ignore them . Never mind the pro-Gaza college encampments , or the Jewish students trapped in libraries and classrooms , or the Jewish students assaulted on campus for supporting Israel . According to woke activists , Jewish students do n't need their support because of their supposed " privilege " . <p> Some of us are white , but many of us -- including this writer -- are not . But really , why should it matter ? The " Jews are white " trope only exists to deny us the rights and protections afforded to every other minority . Taken to its furthest extreme , branding Jews white ultimately serves to legitimise attacks on us . <p> And those attacks are increasing in number . American Jews , who comprise a mere 2 per cent of the nation 's population , experienced 15 per cent of all hate crimes and 68 per cent of all reported religion-based hate crimes last year , according to the FBI . <p> While African-Americans still endure the highest overall percentage of hate crimes in the US , attacks against Jews surged 63 per cent last year to their highest numbers since 1979 , according to the Anti-Defamation League . <p> In other words , Jewish students have never been more in need of the benefits and protections apparently offered by DEI . Jews should not be told that they are blessed with privilege at the exact moment they 're besieged by hate .
