<h> Accessibility Links <h> How will history judge Joe Biden ? <h> America 's 46th president wanted to be the man who restored normality , writes Adam Smith , a professor of US politics and political history at the University of Oxford . Instead , he will be a character in Trump 's story <p> Joe Biden , perhaps the last true believer in the Lincolnian idea of American exceptionalism <p> PHILIP MONTGOMERY <p> Adam Smith <p> Saturday December 14 2024 , 1.00pm , The Sunday Times <p> This is not the way it was supposed to end . Joe Biden has faced more than his fair share of setbacks . " When you get knocked down , get up ! " his father , Joseph Biden Sr , would say . And Biden will get up this time , too , after a fashion , handing power gracefully to a man he despised as the worst of all character types : a bully . But at this stage in his life there will surely be no further plot twist . This is the final chapter , and it is a deeply melancholy one . <p> On a personal level Joe Biden 's inauguration nearly four years ago was an incredible triumph against the odds for a consistently underrated politician whose first run for the White House had been more than 30 years earlier . And on a national level his supporters saw it as a moment of redemption . In the aftermath of Donald Trump 's unprecedented refusal to concede the 2020 election and the violent attack on the Capitol on January 6 , 2021 -- for which Trump , in the words of the Republican Senate leader Mitch McConnell , was " practically and morally responsible " -- Biden seemed like the balm America needed . He was the anti-Trump who would replace sky-high self-regard with a bottomless well of empathy . US history , Joe Biden said on that cold , clear day , is " a constant struggle between the American ideal that we are all created equal , and the harsh , ugly reality that racism , nativism , fear and demonisation have long torn us apart " . But at that point the good America had defeated the ugly . <p> It is an amazing fact that Biden was born closer in time to the presidency of Abraham Lincoln ( 77 years ) than to his own presidency 78 years later . And through his long life the United States has always been for Biden , as it was for Lincoln , the last , best hope of Earth . He is perhaps the last true believer in the Lincolnian idea of American exceptionalism -- the faith ( for it is an idea rooted not in evidence but in belief ) that the US has a special mission in the world , to keep alive the ideal that all men are created equal . Biden has always been more likely to quote his mother , Catherine Eugenia Finnegan Biden , than Lincoln , but the essential point is the same . " My mother 's creed is the American creed : no one is better than you . You are everyone 's equal , and everyone is equal to you . " <p> Of course , Biden is all too aware that America , like his own life , is suffused by tragedy . Aware , too , that the American project is shot through with hypocrisy -- a trait from which he is hardly immune , given his decision to issue a presidential pardon to his son Hunter . <p> Meeting the newly re-elected Donald Trump at the White House last month <p> REUTERS <p> Most inaugural addresses -- Trump 's dark meditation of 2017 being a notable exception -- contain conscious echoes of previous speeches , weaving an American rhetorical tradition . And in 2021 this was especially true . On the eve of the Civil War Lincoln insisted that " though passion may have strained it must not break our bonds of affection " . Biden similarly hoped the time had come when " we can see each other not as adversaries but as neighbours " and , like Lincoln , invoked the " better angels " of our nature . In 1933 , amid the catastrophe of mass unemployment , Franklin D Roosevelt spoke of the need to restore the temple of the American republic to its ancient truths and warned that " the only thing we have to fear is fear itself " . In 2021 Biden called for " an American story of hope , not fear " . <h> Advertisement <p> As Biden told the tale , he had been compelled to run one last time by President Trump 's inability to distinguish right from wrong , even when one side -- as in the violent clashes in Charlottesville , Virginia , in 2017 -- was spewing racist hate . Surely , Biden repeated as a mantra , " this is not who we are . America is better than this . " Four years ago , albeit by the capricious tiny margins of a closely contested election , the electorate appeared to agree . <p> We now know that was not the end of the story , but Biden almost seemed to anticipate the reversal . He spoke of his 2021 inauguration as " the triumph " of " the cause of democracy " , but it was not a triumphal speech . " The battle is perennial , " he warned . " Victory is never assured . " And , sure enough , the twice-impeached , multiply indicted Trump burst out of the political tomb in which he seemed to have interred himself . Like an over-the-hill heavyweight , Biden could not resist one last fight against his old enemy . And then his own team pulled him away , knowing he no longer had the strength to win . <p> Biden leaves the White House with a mixed record . But in time no one will remember the details of his policy failures and successes . The presidents who matter most are the transformers who change the country 's direction , or create enduring institutions . In some cases historians even name " ages " after them . That will not be the fate of poor old Joe Biden , the only president other than Benjamin Harrison ( and who remembers him ? ) to be succeeded by the man he beat . In the largest sense it is almost as if the " triumph " of 2020 never happened . <p> Biden alights from Air Force Two as vice-president in 2012 <p> CHRISTOPHER ANDERSON/MAGNUM PHOTOS <p> The Biden story began in the coalmining city of Scranton , Pennsylvania , where Joey -- as his family called him -- was born on November 20 , 1942 . He was the eldest of four siblings and , from birth to the present day , has been surrounded by his big , self-confident and self-consciously " Irish " family . His father , Joseph , was a handsome salesman who had made , then lost , a lot of money . Throughout most of Biden 's childhood the family were strapped for cash . When he was a teenager the family moved to Wilmington , Delaware , where his father had found work , but " Joey " kept in touch with his old Scranton pals and the Pennsylvania working-class origin story has always been core to the Biden political brand . <p> Joey was not academically brilliant , but he was sporty , tall , good-looking and cheerful , with a dazzling smile . He overcame a childhood stutter and , by his late teens , was known for his blarney . His head could be turned not only by a pretty girl but also -- his father 's influence , no doubt -- by a fancy car or an opulent mansion . <h> Advertisement <p> Biden 's upbringing provided him with a store of politically useful wisdom . One came from an incident in the early 1960s when Biden 's father was managing a car dealership in Wilmington . One year the company had held a staff Christmas party at which the owner threw a bucket of silver dollars on the floor and watched with amusement as his employees scrambled to pick them up . Biden Sr turned to his boss and said , " I quit , dammit ! " and walked out . " My dad saw that as an abuse of power , " Biden recalled in his memoir . " I realised that it 's the thing that has always pushed my button . " <p> Young ' Joey ' , second from right , with his mother , Jean , and younger siblings , from left , Valerie , Francis and James , c1955 <p> JOE BIDEN CAMPAIGN <p> A self-serving anecdote from a politician , perhaps , but a telling way of framing himself and an insight that makes sense of much of Biden 's career . His sister , Valerie , with whom the president has an extraordinarily close relationship , recalled their parents instilling in them a basic principle of decency and justice . " If you went and attacked someone where they were most vulnerable just because it felt good , that would have been the biggest disappointment to my parents , " she once told a Biden biographer . " All my parents had to say was , ' Oh , I 'm so disappointed , ' and that was like a knife through you . " <p> The formative moment in Biden 's life was December 18 , 1972 . On the morning of that day , the 30-year-old Biden was on top of the world . He was a father of three with a beautiful wife , Neilia , whom he had met on holiday in the Bahamas nine years earlier . He had just been elected as one of the youngest ever US senators , defeating an incumbent Republican . In the small world of Delaware politics Biden had risen fast . That day he was in Washington , establishing his new Senate office with Valerie -- now his campaign manager . Back home in Delaware , Neilia took their children to buy a Christmas tree . She pulled out of a junction in their family station wagon , straight into the path of a semi-trailer truck . Neilia and their one-year-old daughter , Naomi , were killed in the crash . Their two sons , Beau and Hunter , then aged three and two , were injured but made full recoveries . <p> With his first wife , Neilia , their baby daughter , Naomi , and sons Hunter , left , and Beau , c1971 . Neilia and Naomi were killed in a car accident the following year <p> DELAWARE PUBLIC ARCHIVES <p> In the weeks that followed the family put its arms around Joe and the boys . " I have no memory of ever being physically alone , " Biden later wrote about that time . His faith was tested but also strengthened : in the aftermath of the tragedy he even sought the advice of a Catholic bishop about getting a dispensation to become a priest . But Capitol Hill was his calling and Joe Biden set about balancing a political career with being a father to his boys , commuting home to Wilmington from Washington on an Amtrak train . <p> In 1975 Biden 's brother Frank set him up on a date with Jill Jacobs , a teacher eight years his junior . They married in 1977 , and Beau and Hunter were joined by a daughter , Ashley . In 1987 , with a national profile as chair of the Senate judiciary committee during the time that it was scrutinising controversial Supreme Court nominations from President Reagan , Biden announced his first run for the presidency . Back then his argument was that it was the turn of a new generation of leaders . His loquaciousness was the stuff of legend . His staff passed reporters a note before campaign events saying " Senator may stray from prepared remarks " , and his campaign was brought to an ignominious end when , in one extemporised peroration , he was accused of plagiarising the British Labour leader Neil Kinnock . <h> Advertisement <p> Announcing he will run for president in 1987 <p> REX <p> It would never have happened without Peter Mandelson , who , as the Labour Party 's director of communications , commissioned the Chariots of Fire director Hugh Hudson to make a ten-minute party election broadcast dubbed Kinnock : The Movie . That film , passed around US political professionals , featured a clip from a party conference speech in Llandudno , in which Kinnock had asked why he was the first in his family " in a thousand generations " to go to university . Was it because they were weak ? Those people who worked eight hours underground , then came up and played football ? It was not ! It was because they " had no platform on which they could stand " . It was a line , and a sentiment , that resonated with Biden , so much so that he made it his own , transposing Bidens for Kinnocks and the coalmines of Scranton for those of South Wales . It was far from the last time that Biden , who can be an effective orator when on form , created trouble for himself . His reputation for being gaffe-prone has dogged him to the end , as he created unnecessary trouble for Kamala Harris 's campaign in October by appearing to refer to all Trump supporters as " garbage " . <p> Twenty years later , Biden ran for the presidency once more , and again had to pull out at an early stage . But this time , with more than 30 years in the Senate and his thinning hair having turned white , he was the perfect man to balance Barack Obama 's inexperience and racial otherness on the Democratic ticket . Boasting that , as vice-president , he insisted on always being the " last man in the room " when the president made a decision , Biden formed an effective political partnership with Obama . At a time when internet memes were becoming a thing , the " bromance " between the unlikely couple burnished Biden 's image . And in 2015 , when his son Beau died of cancer aged 46 , his very public stoicism bestowed on him a strength that overshadowed everything else , rekindling the early public image of Biden as a politician whose touchstone was personal tragedy . <p> As vice-president to Barack Obama in 2010 <p> AFP <p> Ten years later with his own running mate , Kamala Harris <p> EPA <p> When he took office in 2021 , Biden hung a portrait of Franklin D Roosevelt above the fireplace in the Oval Office . It is hard not to resist the interpretation that in doing so Biden was revealing the president he really wanted to be : not John Kennedy ( Irish but too flashy ) , not Lyndon Johnson ( too earthy ) and certainly not Jimmy Carter ( too naive ) , but the political grandfather of those Democratic presidents , the man who had sat in that office at the time when Joey was born . <p> Roosevelt had presided over the New Deal , a huge expansion of the federal government , the creation of a welfare state , the build-up of US arms and its entry on to the world stage , leading the fight against the Axis powers . In those decades , when the US was the uncontested " leader of the free world " , politicians of all parties spoke of Americans ' solemn responsibility to assure the survival and the success of liberty , to be a shining city on a hill giving hope to the world . It was the time when people spoke glibly of " the American century " . Biden embraced the optimism of that vision and the sense of responsibility that came with it . At home the Democratic Party dominated mid-century US politics because it was willing to take on vested interests and stand up for ordinary working people . <p> Born into the world FDR made , Biden has fought all his life to defend it . As he sees it , it is a world in which international institutions shaped by the US try to sustain global stability , and its aim is an America in which the rich guys do n't get to push the ordinary Joes around . Biden 's support for labour unions , an attachment that is as emotional as it is political , is probably the strongest line of continuity through his career . <h> Advertisement <p> Biden , aged 25 , in 1967 <p> ALAMY <p> In other ways , as the political scientist Robert C Lieberman has pointed out , over five decades Biden has somehow managed to position himself wherever the centre of the Democratic Party happens to have been : in the 1970s , while strongly supporting the overall aims of the civil rights movement , he was vocally opposed to the bussing of children to desegregate public schools . In the 1980s he was never really a Clintonian " New Democrat " , yet neither was he associated with the party 's left . This chameleon ability makes his opponents suspicious , but it reflects a pragmatism that was key to his selection as Obama 's running mate and that has enabled him , for all his failing powers , to mostly hold together the cacophonous band of the Democratic Party throughout his time in the White House . <p> This instinct for party management is also in the tradition of FDR , for whom , like Biden , ideology was less important than doing deals and getting stuff done . It is with good reason the journalist Franklin Foer titled his biography of Biden The Last Politician -- the last man standing who trusts in institutions and genuinely believes in the back-and-forth trades of a Washington world before the rise of the venomous partisan polarisation of the modern era . " Biden set out to prove the eternal relevance of politics , " Foer writes . " He wanted to show that dealmaking , coalition building and persuading the other side were still effective ways to get things done . " <p> Up to a point it worked . Judged by the metric of getting legislation through Congress , Biden 's presidency has been a success : far more so than most commentators initially predicted . At the president 's urging , Congress authorised more than a trillion dollars of spending on highways , subsidising the green economy and incentivising semiconductor manufacturing among other things . All over the US construction companies have full order books thanks to the Biden administration 's spending . FDR had done the same but , unlike Roosevelt , Biden has n't been thanked for it by voters . Not only was the government investment invisible , it also helped fuel inflation , which reached a four-decade high of 9 per cent in June 2022 . Stickers were placed next to the price listing at petrol stations with a picture of the president saying " I did that " . <p> Stuck on petrol pumps in 2022 , these stickers blamed Biden for the rising cost of fuel <p> After decades chairing hearings in the Senate and eight years rubbing shoulders with world leaders as vice-president , Biden 's strong suit was supposed to be foreign affairs . He filled the administration with the supposed best and brightest strategic minds of their generation , from the secretary of state Antony Blinken and national security adviser Jake Sullivan down . But just as John F Kennedy 's bright generation led the US into the quagmire of Vietnam , the sad irony of the past four years has been that an internationalist president has only underlined US weakness rather than strength . <p> The withdrawal from Afghanistan in 2021 was bungled , infuriating allies and abandoning the country to the Taliban . Putin 's invasion of Ukraine at first seemed to prompt a renaissance of a western alliance under American leadership of a kind not seen since the 1990s . Nato even gained members . Yet despite the billions of US taxpayers ' dollars that have been poured in , the Ukraine war is so far proving to be a strategic win for Putin , who has strengthened ties with China and India and is wielding ever greater influence in the rest of Europe . Nowhere and no one feels safer now than when Biden took office . The conflict in Gaza was a uniquely lose-lose crisis for a Democratic president , given the party 's historically strong support from Jewish Americans and the strength of pro-Palestinian feeling on the left . Biden has ended up satisfying no one -- and his inability to restrain Israel has contributed to a perception of weakness . <h> Advertisement <p> Even more damaging was the administration 's failure to deal -- and to be seen to deal -- with the influx of undocumented immigrants at the southern border . Border crossings rose sharply in June 2023 , when Biden lifted emergency pandemic-era measures -- before introducing stricter controls this June . In 2023 3.2 million " encounters " were recorded by US Customs and Border Protection , compared to 1.4 million in 2019 , the highest number during Trump 's presidency . <p> Even without Biden 's unforced errors , the lack of economic confidence made its mark . Inflation fell to under 3 per cent this year , but too late to save the Democrats . With the cost of a grocery shop and filling the tank still high , the 2024 election was always going to be a likely defeat for the incumbents . <p> For the Democrats in this situation to renominate a visibly ageing man who would be 86 at the end of his second term was political malpractice of the highest order . It is true that he had never unequivocally pledged to be a one-term president but he had certainly implied it . " Look , I view myself as a bridge , not as anything else , " he told an interviewer in March 2020 , having clinched the nomination . <p> His first big decision as presumptive Democratic nominee in 2020 had been to select Kamala Harris as his running mate , but he never behaved as if he truly trusted her to take over from him . Harris 's perceived weakness together with slightly better than expected results for Democrats in the midterm elections of 2022 were overinterpreted by Biden 's team as a rejection of Trumpism . In early 2023 he took the catastrophic decision to run again . In the president 's tight circle of advisers , Jill , with a bond forged in frontline politics over 47 years of marriage , was the most important voice , along with his sister Valerie . Without their fierce support Biden would never have taken that leap . <p> Yet it was a tragic failure of collective leadership that no one of importance in the Democratic Party had the bravery to oppose this hubristic decision , leaving Biden to win the primaries with no proper opposition . A White House omerta surrounded the president 's visibly declining health , the details only revealed after dogged investigation by The Wall Street Journal . <p> Biden and his wife , Jill , walk off stage after the disastrous presidential debate in June <p> AP <p> And then came the presidential debate with Donald Trump on Thursday June 27 , 2024 , one of the most consequential events in modern American politics . For an excruciating 90 minutes the president rambled in a voice close to a whisper , his eyes staring into the middle distance , failing again and again to challenge Trump . But even this humiliation did not compel him to step aside . Jill leapt to his defence , telling her husband in front of the cameras what every viewer knew to be untrue : " You answered every question , you knew all the facts . " The actor George Clooney made an early break from behind the curtain , calling for Biden to step down in The New York Times . The liberal " luvvies " had turned . Obama soon pulled his confidence from his former wingman . <p> In the face of internal polls showing him losing all the swing states , Biden clung on for almost a month . It was a self-defeating stubbornness born of lifelong experience -- " Get up , Joe ! " -- and it took the steel of Nancy Pelosi , the former House speaker and at 84 even older than him , to bring him down . By then it was too late for the party to select a candidate through the public fire of a primary campaign . Vice-President Harris and Governor Tim Walz probably ran about as good a campaign as they could have done , but could not climb out of the electoral hole they had inherited . Unsurprisingly Democratic insiders from Pelosi down have turned on Biden since the November 5 poll . In The Atlantic , Biden 's biographer Franklin Foer condemned him for paving " the way for the return of Donald Trump . That is his legacy . Everything else is an asterisk . " <p> Debating Trump on CNN in June <p> The 2016 election had been winnable for the Democrats and Hillary Clinton lost by a whisker . In contrast , 2024 was an election where the Democrats faced a huge uphill struggle , yet they came less than two percentage points behind the winner . But that does n't exculpate Biden from the consequences of his hubris . If he had made clear two years ago that he was not going to run , it is possible that Trump may still have won . But it is also possible that , through an open primary , a reinvigorated Democratic Party might have found a candidate who could have distanced themselves from an unpopular incumbent sufficiently to have found a way of getting over the line . Maybe , in such an alternative universe , facing a new and energetic Democrat , wavering Republicans would have resisted the atavistic appeal of Trump . Maybe . The what ifs will haunt the Biden years for ever . <p> In fairness , probably not all of the Biden administration 's work will be obliterated . In its final weeks it is rushing to spend the remainder earmarked to incentivise the US chips industry and other infrastructure projects . Most Republicans opposed these measures when they were passed , but red states have benefited from them . For similar reasons of electoral self-interest , the new Republican congressional majority may also find it expedient to allow Biden 's health insurance subsidies to remain . On tariffs and trade there may well be more continuity than Trump 's bluster would suggest . Time will tell . <p> On a commuter train to Washington from Delaware in 1988 <p> GETTY IMAGES <p> But in fundamental ways the new administration will define itself in opposition to everything Biden has believed in all his life . Trump does n't want America to " lead the world " as Biden does ; he sees international relations as entirely transactional . Meanwhile , the federal government edifice that Roosevelt built -- the national state that tried to enact a fair society -- will be under renewed assault , as civil servants are fired or intimidated and federal protections for everything from airline refunds to water quality eroded . Foer is surely right that Biden 's presidency will be remembered , at best , as a curious interregnum between the Trump terms . He wanted to be the man who restored normality after the aberration of Trump 's first term . Instead Biden will be a character in Trump 's story . <p> We still do n't know for sure exactly what that story will be . If Biden meant what he said in his inaugural address and in his increasingly stark warnings about Trump ever since , it is a story that will be told with a tear in the eye . After all , Biden has told us that Trump is a literal threat to American democracy . On the third anniversary of the violent attack on the Capitol by Trump supporters , President Biden went to Valley Forge , Pennsylvania , where George Washington 's Continental Army shivered and nearly starved itself out of existence in the harsh winter of 1777-8 . Every American should visit Valley Forge , Biden said , because it " tells the story of the pain and the suffering and the true patriotism it took to make America " . Yet , in 2024 , the question was whether democracy is " still America 's sacred cause " . Trump was willing to " sacrifice " American democracy . <p> The darkest view is that the president that Biden most resembles will not be FDR but James Buchanan , the Democrat elected in 1857 , whose poor judgment inflamed the sectional crisis that led to civil war in 1861 -- a well-meaning , long-serving public servant from Pennsylvania who preached the language of unity yet dithered in the face of surging populism and plunged the nation into cataclysm . <p> With his sister , Valerie , formerly his campaign manager , and his son Hunter , in July <p> GETTY IMAGES <p> If that seems overwrought , it is Biden who has done as much as anyone to suggest such a cataclysmic outcome by dramatising Trump 's threat . The final irony may be Biden 's decision to pardon his son Hunter , who had been facing the prospect of prison for his conviction for offences relating to gun possession and tax fraud , on the grounds that the prosecution was politically motivated . Understandable as this decision is on a human level , it subverts Biden 's claim that Trump was unique in his willingness to abuse the latent autocratic power of the president . <p> The New York Times , of all places , published a scathing editorial on December 4 , its sentiment hard to disagree with : " This was a significant misstep that could leave lasting damage . It will not only tarnish Mr Biden 's own record as a defender of democratic norms , it will also be greedily embraced as justification for Donald Trump 's further abuses of pardon power and broader attacks on the integrity of the justice system Mr Biden has now ' normalised ' the abnormal . " At a stroke of his pen Biden has gifted Trump an everlasting alibi . <p> The light of Biden 's world is dying . It was a world in which the United States , however hypocritically and imperfectly , had the power and confidence to serve as an example of a pluralist liberal society bound by the rule of law , and in which the federal government felt its responsibility to the folks of places like Scranton . Biden was born precisely when that world was coming into being . He leaves office as it finally dies .
