<p> In northern Syria the war has not ended . In fact , it intensified last week , as President Erdogan tries to exploit this moment to boost Turkish influence across the region , while pursuing his longstanding ambition of crushing the Kurd resistance . <p> " If any of the external actors who have long asserted claims over the future of Syria can be said to have ' won ' following the overthrow of Assad , it is Turkey , " said Burcu Ozcelik from the Royal United Services Institute . <p> Having backed the victorious Islamist militant group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , or HTS , for years , Erdogan can not contain his pleasure at this month 's dramatic collapse of the Syrian dictatorship , waxing lyrical last week : " If half our heart belongs to the cities of southern Turkey , the other half belongs to Afrin , Aleppo , Hama , Homs and Damascus . " <p> Turkey 's leader loves to evoke the spirit of his country 's Ottoman sultans , who ruled Syria and much of the rest of the Middle East in past centuries . Today , says Ezgi Basaran , an Oxford-based academic and author of The New Spirit of Islamism , " he presents himself as the ultimate winner domestically , which really puts him in a different league from the opposition . He is truly enjoying his moment in the spotlight . " <p> While Erdogan publicly basks in his position as the apparent victor in Syria , privately many in Ankara are wondering how to stay on top of the fast-evolving situation there , and worry about the possibility of triumph turning to anarchy . What is paramount , as always , for Turkey 's veteran leader is seizing the domestic political advantage by insisting he is the only national leader capable of mastering the chaos . <h> Advertisement <p> So Turkey let it be known that it gave the green light last month for an offensive by HTS and a Turkish-backed militia called the Syrian National Army , or SNA , to clear the way to Aleppo . But once this supposedly limited move unexpectedly touched off the regime 's collapse , and the HTS government shifted from the Turkish border to Damascus , the balance of power between them and Turkey changed . <p> The Turkey-backed Syrian National Army also took part in the offensive that brought down Assad <p> KARAM AL-MASRI / REUTERS <p> As the politics of a new Syria play out in Damascus , Erdogan has taken advantage of the uncertainty to attack the Kurds . Using the SNA militia and elements of Turkey 's 10,000-strong military force deployed in Syria , they moved first against Tel Rifaat and on Monday captured Manbij , two important centres of the Kurdish-dominated area of northeastern Syria called Rojava . <p> If Erdogan could get his way , he would clear the border all the way eastwards to Iraq , strengthen the grip of pro-Turkish forces there , then invite the three million-plus Syrian refugees in his country to head home . Many Turks resent the presence of so many Syrians , so for years Erdogan has been trying to nudge them back over the border . <p> And just as his policy towards those displaced people is motivated by political calculation but gilded with florid phrases about brotherhood , so he eyes the prize in their newly liberated homeland with relish . " As a pragmatic neoliberal to his core , his main ambition for Syria right now is ' reconstruction ' , " says Basaran . " This would ensure his clientelist network -- primarily composed of construction companies -- secures lucrative contracts . " <p> Erdogan is a seasoned enough player of the regional political game to know that before he gets carried away by visions of fat rebuilding deals , emptied refugee camps and a crushed Kurdish militancy , there is much that could now go wrong . The web of competing ethnicities , loyalties and patrons makes it almost impossible to achieve a total victory ; what pleases one local ally will provoke another . <h> Advertisement <p> America 's attitude will also be key to defining whether the objective of clearing away the Kurdish groups from the Turkish border can be met . The 900 or so US troops still in the area support a militia called the Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) , which is mainly Kurdish and is a key ally in the campaign against Islamic State , or Da'esh as it 's known in Arabic . <p> Donald Trump , the president-elect , has said he will withdraw those US troops , which would leave the SDF , the people being hammered in recent days by Turkey , completely exposed . But longtime observers of the alphabet soup of Kurdish parties and militias will recall that in 2019 during his previous term , the president was also set to remove the remaining US forces . <p> Members of the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces , which is backed by America , in the eastern city of Deir Ezzor <p> ORHAN QEREMAN / REUTERS <p> Back then the Pentagon made the case for keeping them there , because if the SDF went under , prisons holding thousands of Islamic State fighters and their families could be emptied , so Trump stopped his withdrawal . With signs that Islamic State is rallying after the fall of Bashar al-Assad , Trump will once again face pressure to keep or even expand the US presence there . That in turn will deny Erdogan his clear run at the Kurds , and could spark tensions with America , as it did five years ago . <p> Even if thwarted from a complete victory , Erdogan will hope to put sufficient pressure on the SDF that the Kurds agree to a deal halting operations by the PKK , which is the faction operating inside Turkey . He will also seek to support and influence the HTS government in Damascus in ways that soothe intercommunal tensions , preventing a renewed , widespread civil war . <h> Advertisement <p> Turkey 's intelligence chief visited the Syrian capital on Thursday to start that work . Gonul Tol , a Washington-based policy expert writing in Foreign Affairs magazine , noted that Turkey " has the strongest channels of communication and history of working with the Islamist group now in charge in Damascus , positioning it to reap the benefits of the Assad regime 's demise " . <p> On Wednesday , Erdogan voiced the hope that his country 's Syrian " guests " would start going home in large numbers , " as stability grows , the number of voluntary returns will also increase " . But if their newly freed homeland descends into chaos and sectarianism , then he knows that not only could those refugees stay put , but their numbers might even grow . <p> One more factor outside Turkey 's control is Israel . Erdogan despises Binyamin Netanyahu and -- channelling public outrage about the campaign in Gaza -- has often used bellicose rhetoric . Now Turkey has criticised Israeli airstrikes for knocking out Syria 's fighter jets , warships and other long-range weapons , potentially undermining the HTS government 's capabilities and ability to put down serious threats to its authority . <p> If there 's one thing that Turkey , Israel , the US and Iraq can agree on , it 's that the most likely immediate challenge will come from elements of Islamic State . The US has been bombing them for the past week , and visiting Turkey on Friday , secretary of state Antony Blinken reminded his hosts that their countries " worked very hard and gave a lot over many years to ensure the elimination of the territorial caliphate of Islamic State , to ensure that that threat does n't rear its head again , and it 's imperative that we keep at those efforts " . <p> Antony Blinken , the US secretary of state , with President Erdogan in Ankara last week <p> TURKISH PRESIDENTIAL PRESS SERVICE/AFP VIA GETTY IMAGES <p> For the moment , Turkey , which suffered many attacks at the hands of those extremists , is happy to lump them in with the Kurdish PKK movement as terrorists who threaten the vision of a peaceful future Syria . Thus Erdogan seeks to maintain his domestic image as a statesman and strategist wisely steering matters . <h> Advertisement <p> In truth , though , having pulled the trigger on last month 's rebel drive on Aleppo , Turkey 's leader helped set in train events that neither he nor anyone else can now predict . If it goes badly , he will blame Israel , America and anyone else he has to . But if democratic Syria thrives , then Turkey will reap the benefits .
