<p> Mohammed Hijab posted a video of his Leicester address to his YouTube channel and is now suing a newspaper columnist who claimed he was inciting racial hatred during the 2022 riots . <p> An Islamic influencer with 1.28 million YouTube subscribers is suing The Spectator and its associate editor , Douglas Murray , for defamation after an article accused him of aggravating racial tensions during the 2022 Leicester riots . <p> Controversial anti-Israel campaigner Mohammed Hijab maintains that the allegation is false and claims that it caused him " to suffer , damage to his reputation , distress , humiliation , embarrassment , hurt and injury to his feelings " . <p> Hijab 's lawyers allege that he lost income as a result of the article -- including a ? 3,500-a-month advertising deal with the One Ummah Charity and ? 30,000 payment for a Ramadan fundraising campaign . <p> Lawyers for Murray and The Spectator , led by Mark Lewis of Patron Law , have hit back against Hijab 's claims . <p> They argue that as a public figure who regularly engages in contentious debates , Hijab 's reputation is already subject to scrutiny . Any " adverse consequences " to the YouTuber stem from his own behaviour , not the article , they state . <p> Murray 's article includes a reference to Hijab 's trip to Leicester during the 2022 unrest , in which Hindu buildings were attacked and dozens of arrests made as tensions with the city 's Muslim community exploded . Speaking to a large crowd of mostly masked men , Hijab delivered an apparent warning , saying : " I 'm saying this directly to all the so-called Hindutva wannabe gangsters : Do n't ever come out like that again " . He also led calls of " Allahu Akbar " . <p> Hijab travelled to Leicester during the unrest and posted on Instagram a photograph of himself leading a group of masked men along a street , with the caption : " Muslim patrol in Leicester " . <p> In his column , Murray -- who recently received an award from President Isaac Herzog for being a " friend to the Jewish people " -- accused Hijab of " cropping up in Leicester to whip up his followers . <p> " Hijab claimed that the Hindus must live in fear because they have been reincarnated as such ' pathetic , weak cowardly people ' . ' I 'd rather be an animal , ' he went on , " Murray wrote . <p> Hijab 's lawyers argue that Murray 's comments were incorrect , and he was referring specifically to Hindutva , an " extremist Hindu supremacist ideology " , not all Hindus . <p> However , Murray 's lawyers claim the remarks were broader in scope , mocking reincarnation as a " central tenet of Hinduism " and using the word " they " to group together all Leicester Hindus . <p> His defence added : " Few if any Leicester protesters were Hindutva nationalists : in this context , ' Hindutva ' was a slur upon those British Hindus who participated as Hindus " . The defence alleges that Hijab 's comments were " bigoted and Hinduphobic " . <p> Murray 's lawyers also highlighted Hijab 's controversial past , including a 2021 protest in Golders Green . He stood with a billboard that stated , " Did we not learn from the Holocaust ? " above images of the Shoah interspersed with photographs from the Israel-Gaza conflict and asked Jewish passers-by their views on Israel . <p> The incident , which the Community Security Trust ( CST ) described as " a disgusting and seemingly deliberate act of incitement " , took place on Shabbat . <p> Hijab said that his intentions during the protest had been " to find people who were pro-Zionist with whom to debate the issues " . <p> Murray 's lawyers also referenced a demonstration outside the Israeli Embassy the same year where , minutes after Hijab addressed the crowd about the " terrorist apartheid state of Israel " and declared " We love death " , a masked man called for " Jewish blood " . Hijab claimed he left the protest before the comments were made . <p> Since October 7 , Hijab has appeared on Piers Morgan 's Uncensored and has posted a stream of anti-Israel messages to his millions of followers . On X , he boasted : " Being labelled anti-semitic by a Zionist is a badge of honour " and " More Jews need to condemn the genocide in Palestine . Too many Jews support it sic . " <p> Hijab alleges that Murray published his claims about his comments in Leicester either knowing that they were false or not caring if they were accurate . In his reply to the defence , the influencer questioned why , if Murray was correct , and Hijab used the term Hindutva to make a " religiously-bigoted attack " on Hindus , it not reported at the time . <p> Mark Lewis , famous for his role in bringing down News of the World , said : " It would not be appropriate for us to comment at this stage , other than to emphasise that Douglas Murray is defending this claim . " The case continues .
