<h> Pe ? a announces reopening of Paraguay 's Embassy in Jerusalem <p> Paraguayan President Santiago Pe ? a Wednesday told Israel 's Parliament ( known as the Knesset ) in Tel Aviv that his government 's decision to relocate the Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem meant that the South American country ? will not abandon Israel. ? Pe ? a plans to reopen the building on Thursday . <p> Paraguay had already moved the diplomatic mission in 2018 under President Horacio Cartes but that decision was later reversed during Mario Abdo Ben ? tez 's term . <p> ? We are with you , we have always seen you as a sister nation . Let us hope to inspire more nations to move their embassies to Jerusalem , ? Pe ? a stressed . The Paraguayan leader also called for the ? immediate ? return home of all hostages still held by the terrorist organization Hamas and warned that ? the enemies of Israel , cowards , will be defeated. ? <p> ? For us , for the Paraguayan people , being here means being in the place where we value things . Freedom . We have given our lives for freedom . For our independence . For our sense of belonging . So we understand very well what is currently happening here , ? Pe ? a said . <p> Pe ? a also met Wednesday with Israeli President Isaac Herzog , who celebrated the transfer of the diplomatic headquarters in a year in which Israel has ? lost sons and daughters ? and has ? hostages in the dungeons of Gaza. ? <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu called Pe ? a a ? courageous , upright , determined and proactive leader ? whose decision renews a ? historic friendship ? between the two countries . ? You chose not to stay on the sidelines . History will remember those who stood up for Israel 's rights in its difficult times . We will remember and the world will remember . Because our war is also the war of all free nations , ? he added . <p> ? I thank you for your stand for the truth , to refute false and defamatory accusations hurled against Israel day after day , ? the prime minister said . ? The latest example is the outrageous and anti-Semitic decision by the International Criminal Court in The Hague to issue arrest warrants against Israeli leaders , and possibly later Israeli soldiers , who defend our country from its enemies , ? Netanyahu underlined . ? We are the ones defending ourselves against the dark forces that commit war crimes , and yet we are falsely accused of such crimes . How absurd , how shameful ! ? <p> ? Fortunately , you , Santiago , stand courageously against lies and for the truth . This stance must be expressed in all international forums . I can assure you that we will continue to fight vigorously for the truth , and at the same time , we will fight vigorously against those who rise to destroy us , ? Netanyahu went on . <p> ? Israel will continue to crush the terror networks of the Iranian-led axis of evil , ? the prime minister added . ? We will defend our existence , secure our future , and strive to establish peaceful relations with all those who wish to live in peace with us. ? <p> Israeli Foreign Minister Gideon Saar met Wednesday with his Paraguayan counterpart , Ruben Ramirez , to whom he expressed his gratitude for the transfer of the embassy to Jerusalem . ? Paraguay is a great friend of Israel and we deeply thank Santiago Pe ? a for the decision to move its embassy to Jerusalem , our eternal capital , ? the Foreign Minister said in a statement . <p> Israel considers Jerusalem ( including its eastern part , occupied in 1967 and unilaterally annexed in 1980 ) as its sole and indivisible capital , something that most of the international community does not recognize and which exacerbates the conflict with the Palestinians . <p> Opposition leader and former Prime Minister Yair Lapid also welcomed Pena 's decision , telling him during his speech in the Knesset that ? they need his voice in the face of the injustice ? that Israel is currently experiencing . <p> On May 21 , 2018 , then-President Cartes moved the Paraguayan embassy to Jerusalem , following Donald Trump 's initiative from the United States . But Abdo Ben ? tez moved it back to Tel Aviv on Sept. 5 that year in an attempt to maintain neutrality in the Palestinian-Israeli conflict . The Knesset recently passed a bill banning the opening of new consulates in Jerusalem , thus encouraging the establishment of embassies .
