<h> Former Premier League footballer elected as new president of Georgia <p> Mr Kavelashvili holds anti-Western and often conspiratorial views , having previously claimed that Western intelligence agencies are attempting to push Georgia into war with Russia , its ruler for two centuries until the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 . <p> He was a striker for Manchester City between 1996 and 1997 , before playing for a number of clubs in the Swiss Super League . <p> He was first elected to parliament in 2016 for the Georgian Dream party - which is trying to deepen ties with Russia since the war began in Ukraine - and in November 2024 was selected as its presidential candidate . <p> Supporters of the Georgian opposition hold portraits of people injured at rallies ( EPA ) <p> Mr Kavelashvili 's election comes following huge protests against the government led by the Georgian Dream party , after it moved to freeze accession to the EU - a long standing goal which is written into the country 's constitution - until 2028 . <p> The move prompted anger in Georgia , where seeking EU membership is overwhelmingly popular , according to opinion polls . But the former footballer eased his way into the presidency , with the Georgian Dream party controlling the 300-seat electoral college which in 2017 replaced direct presidential elections . <p> Protestors gathered outside the Georgian parliament building in the capital Tbilisi , many playing football and mockingly waving red cards towards the building in reference to Mr Kavelashvili 's football career . <p> One protestor , Vezi Kokhodze , said the vote was " treason " given the desire of the Georgian population to shift close to the West . He told Reuters news agency : " Today 's election represents the clear wish of the system to bring Georgia back to its Soviet roots . " <p> The college of electors which selects a Georgian president - largely a ceremonial position - is made up of MPs and local government representatives . 224 of the 225 electors present voted for Mr Kavelashvili - the only candidate who was nominated . <p> Opposition parties have boycotted the Georgian parliament since an election in October which saw Georgian Dream win nearly 54 per cent of the vote but which was condemned as fraudulent by opposition parties . <p> Tens of thousands of protestors have rallied outside parliament every night for more than two weeks . Fireworks have been thrown at police , who have broken up demonstrations with water cannons and tear gas . The government claims the protests are an attempt to stage a pro-EU revolution to seize power violently . <p> Mikheil Kavelashvili ( L ) , only presidential candidate nominated by the ruling ' Georgian Dream ' party , listens to applause after being selected as new Georgia 's president ( EPA ) <p> Real power in Georgia is often seen to lie with Bidzina Ivanishvili , a billionaire ex prime minister who nominated Mr Kavelashvili for the presidency . <p> Mr Kavelashvili was involved in writing a law in which organisations which receive more than 20 per cent of their funding from overseas would have to register as agents of foreign influence - similar to a Russian law which discredits people critical of Putin 's regime . <p> Outgoing pro-EU president Salome Zourabichvili , a critic of the ruling Georgian Dream party , described the selection of a new president as a " mockery of democracy " . She has positioned herself as the leader of the protest movement and says she will remain as president after her term ends , as she considers the parliament to be illegitimate . <p> Opposition parties say they will regard Ms Zourabichvili as the legitimate president even after Mr Kavelashvili 's inauguration on December 29 . <p> Demonstrations rocked the Georgian capital , Tbilisi , on Friday for the 16th consecutive day , as thousands of pro-EU protesters filled the streets , before gathering in the evening outside parliament . The ruling Georgian Dream party is set to appoint its candidate , the far-right former footballer Mikheil Kavelashvili , as president on Saturday . Georgia 's political crisis deepened Friday , as new pro-Europe protests gripped Tbilisi ahead of the controversial nomination of a far-right government loyal <p> Georgia 's ruling party on Saturday voted for a far-right former footballer to become president in a controversial election process , amid a deepening constitutional crisis and weeks of mass pro-EU protests.An electoral college , controlled by the ruling Georgian Dream party and boycotted by the opposition , elected Mikheil Kavelashvili with a comfortable majority of 224 votes as the country 's next figurehead leader for a five-year term , the central election commission said . <p> Eight people are injured in Glasgow after a double decker bus hit a railway bridge . One person is in a critical condition , according to the police , and five people were taken by ambulance to Queen Elizabeth University Hospital for treatment . Emergency services were called to the area at around 6pm . <p> ( Bloomberg ) -- Georgia selected Mikheil Kavelashvili as its next president on Saturday , as protests backed by the current head of state continue over the government 's turn away from the West in favor of closer ties with Russia.Most Read from BloombergHong Kong 's Expat Party Hub Reshaped by Chinese InfluxHow California Sees the World , and ItselfCity Hall Is HiringAmerican Institute of Architects CEO ResignsLondon 's Tube Fares Are Set to Rise by 4.6% Next YearKavelashvili , a former footballer and <p> The recent fall of the Assad regime has infused new hope in the search for Austin Tice , an American detained in Syria for a decade , as prisoners in jails across the country are released , Gustaf Kilander writes <p> One person was shot and killed in an " isolated " shooting in on-post housing at Fort Eisenhower on Saturday , according to the base . No information regarding the victim will be released until next-of-kin has been notified . <p> Thousands of Israelis staged a protest on Saturday to demand that the remaining hostages still being held in Gaza be released . There has been guarded optimism in recent days that a ceasefire and hostage release deal for Gaza might finally be within reach after more than 14 months of war between Israel and Hamas in the Palestinian enclave . Thousands of Israelis demonstrated Saturday for a deal to release the remaining hostages still held in Gaza after more than 14 months of war against Hamas in t <p> Abu Mohammad al-Jolani , leader of Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , has become Syria 's new strongman , replacing the Alawite regime of Bashar al-Assad . Once a partner of al Qaeda , Jolani now speaks the language of tolerance towards Syria 's ethnic and religious minorities and told his fighters to refrain from extrajudicial violence . Videos emerging on social media , including one apparently showing the execution of four suspected regime collaborators , suggest that not all of his fighters are following hi <p> Bashar al-Assad confided in almost no one about his plans to flee Syria as his reign collapsed . Hours before he escaped for Moscow , Assad assured a meeting of about 30 army and security chiefs at the defence ministry on Saturday that Russian military support was on its way and urged ground forces to hold out , according to a commander who was present and requested anonymity to speak about the briefing . Assad told his presidential office manager on Saturday when he finished work he was going home but instead headed to the airport , according to an aide in his inner circle . <p> The Russians have been permanently based here since 2017 , propping up the Assad regime and overseeing the war against their many opponents . For now , though , what we do know , is that Russian convoys are withdrawing from bases across Syria and are heading for the Mediterranean Coast . On a dusty road near the main Russian entrance to Hmeimim air base near Latakia , I could see a convoy of Russian military vehicles trundling their way past the Russian-named shops . <p> Israel wasted no time after Bashar al-Assad 's fall to bomb all the Syrian military assets it wanted to keep out of the rebels ' hands -- striking nearly 500 targets , destroying the navy , and taking out , it claims , 90% of Syria 's known surface-to-air missiles .
