<p> Looking back on that trip , today 's news he would not be continuing as an MSP beyond 2026 did not come as a huge surprise to me . <p> Though there were no imminent signs Yousaf would only last a few more weeks as first minister when I sat to talk to him on a CalMac ferry over The Minch , I never got a sense he was fully comfortable with the burden of being the country 's leader . <p> A moment that stuck with me was just after we finished that interview when , as I moved across the room to make notes on some of the topics we 'd covered , he was recognised by a young family sat next to him and he began playing cards with the wee boy . <p> In a matter of minutes , he had gone from a very measured and self-conscious man who seemed a little exhausted answering my questions , to one who was smiling and laughing , enjoying a brief moment of relaxation . He was likely taking a tiny bit of comfort amid missing his own children , who he would no doubt have had limited time for in such a pressurised position . <p> ( Image : NQ ) You saw a glimpse of the real Humza Yousaf -- one who I think has clearly been more at ease as a backbench MSP since he stepped back as FM . <p> He gave a pretty sarcastic response saying : " I 'm going down there to do my duty as First Minister and if it means , in my duty as FM , I 've got to take the oath as I 've taken only five weeks ago -- almost word for word I think -- that 's something of course I will do . " <p> When I pressed him on whether it made him feel uncomfortable , he repeated that he was " doing his duty " . He would n't admit it , but you could tell he was furious at this submissive aspect of the job . <p> Duty , I think , is what kept Yousaf going through many , many challenging moments first minister . Through former SNP chief executive Peter Murrell being arrested in connection with Operation Branchform , through Elon Musk stirring up disinformation about the Hate Crime Bill , and even through his desperate attempt to hold on after brutally ending the Bute House Agreement with the Greens . You could see , as pained as he seemed at times , he was prepared to put on a face and try and do what was right by the people of Scotland . Keep calm , and carry on . <p> As he returned to the backbenches , Yousaf was vocal on social media about prioritising his mental health and spending more time with his children . It was not hard to sense the relief he felt at getting back to a more normal life away from the public eye . It seemed like he was himself again and enjoying life , just like he was playing cards with a youngster on the ferry . <p> One thing that has remained consistent no matter his position is that he has been unrelentingly vocal about the atrocities in Gaza and no one is expecting that to change , whether he is an elected politician or not . It 'll actually be interesting to see what kinds of activism he gets involved in away from the chamber . <p> But it was clear the moment he gave up any ministerial duty , the more photos you saw of him enjoying life at home with his girls , the end was nigh for Yousaf 's political career . He had reached the top and it did not taste so good , but now let 's hope he can enjoy the sweeter things in life . <h> Why are you making commenting on The National only available to subscribers ? <p> We know there are thousands of National readers who want to debate , argue and go back and forth in the comments section of our stories . We 've got the most informed readers in Scotland , asking each other the big questions about the future of our country . <p> Unfortunately , though , these important debates are being spoiled by a vocal minority of trolls who are n't really interested in the issues , try to derail the conversations , register under fake names , and post vile abuse . <p> So that 's why we 've decided to make the ability to comment only available to our paying subscribers . That way , all the trolls who post abuse on our website will have to pay if they want to join the debate -- and risk a permanent ban from the account that they subscribe with . <p> The conversation will go back to what it should be about -- people who care passionately about the issues , but disagree constructively on what we should do about them . Let 's get that debate started ! <p> Callum Baird , Editor of The National <h> Comments : Our rules <p> We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues . The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege , not a right , however , and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused. <h> follow us <p> This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation 's Editors ' Code of Practice . If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then please contact the editor here . If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact IPSO here
