<p> Ditza Or standing in front of an image of her son Avinatan , who has been held hostage in Gaza for over 14 months <p> Ditza Or had already guessed that something terrible had happened to her son Avinatan before she heard the news that he had been kidnapped by Hamas . <p> On the afternoon of October 7 , she was taking a nap at home in Jerusalem . She had been told about the attacks in the south , but thinking that none of her seven children were in the area , while distressed by news , she felt reassured that her own family was safe . And as someone who keeps Shabbat , Ditza had n't checked her phone , so had no reason to think otherwise . <p> " At about 3 o'clock , I was resting when I heard footsteps under the window of my room , and these footsteps caught my attention . I listened , and then I heard the knock on the door of the house . I did n't want to open it , but they kept knocking . Finally , someone else opened it , and I heard the voices of my two children . " <p> As her children do n't drive on Shabbat , Ditza immediately realised that they were bringing her bad news , so when they knocked on her bedroom door , " I decided that I will not let this enter my world . I knew that something very horrible was on the other side of the door , and I decided that I was n't going to open the door to allow that into my life . " <p> Avinatan and Ditza Or <p> Eventually , her children just let themselves into the room , accompanied by a psychologist . " And we know the meaning of such a mission , such a group . " It was her daughter who delivered the news that both Avinatan and his girlfriend Noa Argamani had been kidnapped . <p> " There are no words that can explain what a mother feels , what I felt at that moment . It 's like lightning striking , but from all directions at once . Then all the light inside of you disappears , and the darkness means no thoughts , no emotions , no air , nothing . Just nothing . " <p> The video of Avinatan and Noa being abducted , with Noa pleading for her life , has become one of the most widely viewed pieces of footage from October 7 , capturing the moment when hundreds of Hamas terrorists broke through the border with Gaza and attacked festival goers , slaughtering more than 360 of them and taking more than 40 hostage . During their murderous rampage throughout southern Israel , they killed over 1,200 people and took more than 250 hostage into Gaza , where 14 months later , 101 remain . <p> A campaign in Israel to bring home Noa Argamani and Avinatan Or before Noa 's rescue <p> It took Ditza , who is a British-Israeli citizen , about two weeks before she could bring herself to watch the whole 20-second video , and as she shares her story with an audience at Chabad 's Jewish Life Centre in Borehamwood , she looks away from the screen as those moments are replayed . <p> " Until now , I still prefer not to watch it again because it 's just so , so terrible and painful to know that Avinatan is in the hands of the worst and most cruel beast in the world , in the hands of the Hamas . " <p> Avinatan and Noa had only decided at the last minute to go to the music festival , arriving at 4.30 in the morning , two hours before the attack began . " At that point , someone filmed Avinatan saying to Noa , saying : ' I 'm so happy that you 're not one of those girls who is afraid of a few missiles . ' " It turned out to be much more than just a few missiles , " says Ditza . <p> When they realised that terrorists had infiltrated the site , the couple tried to flee in their car , firstly south and then north , but , each time , were told to turn back because of terrorists in the area . After driving into a field , they abandoned the car and hid in a ditch for three to four hours . Nitza found this out from texts that Avinatan had sent to a friend . <p> " Avitan was telling him : ' There 's a terrible massacre here . People are being shot all over . ' He sent photographs of the area and the location , everything that could help find them , but no help came . " <p> After Noa was rescued , Ditza learnt that Avinatan had had the chance to escape from the festival but had chosen to stay with Noa so as " not to neglect her at the hands of the monsters " . <p> " I have thought about what would have happened if he had escaped , but I know he would have never forgiven himself . He would n't have able to live with himself . So , he was very loyal , and I 'm proud of him for that . " <p> Avinatan Or and his girlfriend Noa Argamani <p> For the first three months after Avinatan was taken hostage , the family heard nothing . " Then we got a call from the intelligence with an indication of life . That 's what it 's called . And it means just that , that he 's alive . " <p> Since then , they have received two further signs of life . " The last one was in May , which means that since May , we do n't even know if he 's alive . We hope so . " <p> What she does know , from speaking to released or rescued hostages , is that Avinatan is being held alone , under the ground . " We do n't know whether he knows whether it 's daytime or nighttime because he does n't see the daylight . " <p> Avinatan is the second of Ditza 's seven children . Whether or not he was aware of it , he turned 31 in captivity , and , says his mother , is " very tall , very strong , very good looking and bright . Brilliant . " <p> An electrical engineer at a media company , he is " very , very funny and is a wonderful cook . He likes making things , but they 'll be very , very special and very complicated dishes . He loves children and he loves his friends . " <p> Avinatan Or is very close to his family <p> Since her son was abducted , Ditza , who has family in the UK , has devoted all her waking hours to fighting for his release , lobbying politicians both in Israel and abroad . Her talk this evening is part of a week-long visit , where she has been meeting MPs and calling for them to exert pressure to ensure a deal . This included the launch of a project " twinning " MPs with hostages , so they can raise awareness of their plight and support their relatives . Conservative MP for Windsor Jack Rankin has been twinned with Avinatan . <p> Thanking the audience for the support she has received from the UK community and the Hostages and Missing Families Forum UK , which organised the visit , she says : " I have met English , Jewish people and they are very warm and supportive . It gives us a lot of strength to know that we are not alone . " <p> Back in Israel , every evening since October 9 , Ditza has been holding a vigil at the entrance to HaKirya , which houses the headquarters of the IDF and Tel Aviv 's government office . <p> " We stand there with those pictures , and we talk . We speak with all the heads of the army who go in and out and who decide about what 's being done . We meet and talk with all the politicians there . " <p> Ditza Or has been campaigning tirelessly for the release of her son <p> Days after Ditza 's talk , there is news of resumed hostage negotiations . " We are trying our best to persuade our government and politicians not to sign a partial deal , because only a few hostages are then released . All of the others that are left when the IDF withdraws from Gaza will then never be freed . There will never be a chance to bring them back home . So , they must insist on signing a deal that brings all of them home . " <p> The hostages , she says , " are not just numbers , not just pictures of beautiful people . They are people like you and me , whose lives were so full , colourful , rich , interesting and funny and , suddenly , these lives stopped . " <p> In the past 14 months , Ditza has n't returned to work as a therapist , saying : " I am still a mother to my other six children but much less than before and even less so a grandmother to my nine grandchildren . " <p> Describing the dramatic rescue of Noa in June as " the happiest thing " , she concedes that her return " has made the pain and the absence of Avinatan even stronger " . <p> When she heard about Noa coming home , not wanting to overwhelm her by visiting , Ditza sent her a short message , saying : " We 're so , so , so happy you are home , and we send you the greatest hug . " <p> But , the next day , the hospital got in touch with Ditza , saying that Noa wanted to see her . " I had an amazing meeting with her for over two hours . The medical staff who were there kept telling her that it was too tiring for her , and she should stop , but Noa said she would n't stop talking until she had told us everything she knew .... and I saw what a brave , wise , devoted young woman she is . " <p> Ditza Or and Noa Argamani are reunited after Noa 's rescue from captivity <p> Noa said that as soon as she was put on the motorbike , she was driven away quickly and that was the last she saw of Avinatan . " She was moved in Gaza five times , and every time she moved , she would ask people if they had seen him , but in every place , people said they did n't know anything about him . <p> " But when the monsters say that , they are n't saying everything . The focus is to make it harder and more painful . And even if they did know , they would n't say . " <p> Noa is now " very much engaged in the struggle to bring Avinatan back " , says Ditza , travelling to the States , South Africa and Japan to raise awareness . <p> As another Chanukah approaches and the waiting continues , Ditza holds onto the hope that she will see her son again . <p> " We are now in the beginning of the month of Kislev , which is the month of the light . And my son is called Avinatan Or , which , in Hebrew , means ' Our Father has given us light . ' And now this light has been in the most extreme , extreme darkness for over 430 days , over 10,000 hours and an endless number of minutes . We hope that in this month , even tonight , they 'll be home again , and the light will return to our lives . "
