<h> Sign up to The JC newsletter <h> How Hamas fooled the media : A neuroscientist 's view <p> Seen from a clinical point of view , they demonstrate exceptional skills in cognitive empathy <p> Pro-Palestinian protesters rally in support of Gaza and Lebanon in Times Square , New York City . ( Getty Images ) <p> December 16 , 2024 12:26 <p> When Syrian rebels captured Damascus earlier this month , CNN described their jihadi leader , Mohamed al-Jolani , as a " blazer-wearing revolutionary " . Other journalists praised his " rebranding " with values of " tolerance " and " pluralism " , while the Council on American-Islamic Relations cast his win as a victory for " justice and freedom " . <p> What is going on ? Ca n't the media see what is in front of their faces ? As a neuropsychologist , I was intrigued . The recent Henry Jackson Society report revealed the largescale embrace of anti-Israel bias across the media . It seems to me that this is part of a pattern . <p> In a recent video released by the IDF , a captured Palestinian Islamic Jihad spokesman called Tarek Abu Shaluf described how he was taught to create false narratives about the Gaza war to appeal to Western humanitarian values . " The international media differs from the Arab ones . They focus on humanitarian issues . We do n't speak to them in the language of violence , destruction and revenge , " he said . <p> The effects are clear . Across the Middle East , militant groups from Hamas to the Syrian rebels orchestrate calculated psychological operations . Seen from a clinical point of view , they demonstrate exceptional skills in cognitive empathy , which they use to manipulate our emotions . <p> Cognitive empathy is the ability to accurately understand and model the thoughts , feelings and values of others . It 's like hacking into someone else 's algorithm for how they think and feel , enabling you to predict their reactions to your actions . On the other hand , emotional empathy -- what the West excessively values -- is the ability to feel what you believe the other person is experiencing . <p> Cognitive empathy takes effort to construct , whereas emotional empathy is involuntary . Anti-Israel militants have been able to turbo-charge their propaganda by using their cognitive empathy to manipulate Westerner 's emotional empathy . <p> Using cognitive empathy , militants have learnt to present their cause as aligned with Western humanitarian values , carefully curating their image as champions of freedom and justice . This dynamic is rooted in asymmetrical power relationships , where weaker groups often develop a detailed understanding of powerful parties , using cognitive empathy to identify and press the psychological buttons that influence those in power . These terrorists often possess a stronger cognitive grasp of Western psychology than Westerners understand jihadi psychology . <p> This imbalance often creates a vague , incomplete and distorted understanding of militants by Westerners , functioning like a political inkblot on the Rorschach test , where individuals with a weaker understanding project their values and experiences onto the " underdogs " , rather than forming an accurate cognitive model of their motivations . Many Westerners , particularly those who live free from war or violence -- like many of the students protesting on college campuses -- attribute benevolence to militants , sympathising with them as " victims " . <p> Later in the interview , the Palestinian Islamic Jihad spokesman admitted that when a rocket struck the Al-Ahli Arab Hospital in Gaza in October 2023 , the terrorists knew it was one of their own . Yet , to " erase " this fact , he said , they portrayed the deaths as a humanitarian disaster perpetuated by " the occupation " . The BBC duly described it as part of a wider " humanitarian crisis " fomented by Israeli " strikes on Gaza " . <p> After October 7 , I saw this jihadi psychological warfare have an impact on recovery from trauma . I have been criss-crossing Israel to try to stop its negative effects . As a neuro and clinical psychologist with more than 30 years of treating trauma , I founded the Israeli Healing Initiative last year and have been bringing high-tech treatments to survivors of trauma from Druze community centres in the north to the Adi Negev Nahalat Eran Rehabilitation Hospital in the south , helping survivors smile again . <p> This week , I met Ateret Violet Shmuel , founder of the nonprofit Indigenous Bridges , which helps indigenous communities heal from trauma . She noted that the constant propaganda is internalised by Jews , who feel " shame " for being " occupiers " instead of the indigenous people that they are in Israel . <p> Young adults are susceptible . In March , a Pew survey revealed that respondents 29 and under are more likely to sympathise with Hamas . One poll concluded that TikTok videos may be part of the problem among college students . Research shows older adults are more resistant . <p> The terrorists exploit Western values by weaponising our emotional empathy . Through graphic imagery and tales of victimhood , they provoke " pain empathy " , the visceral emotional reaction to witnessing suffering . Our brains are wired to respond more deeply to the image of a single suffering child than to statistics about millions of people , a phenomenon known as the " identifiable victim effect " . Studies reveal that small charities can raise more money than bigger ones simply by showcasing such poignant imagery . These images involuntarily affect our brain functioning . With exposure to these images , we respond with emotional empathy . The more emotionally empathic we already are , the more vulnerable we are to its weaponisation . <p> Hamas and its sympathisers skilfully exploit pain-empathy circuits in the brain , flooding the media with real or manipulated images of dead children , even misrepresenting gruesome scenes from other wars -- including the Shoah in cases of " Holocaust inversion " -- as Palestinian casualties of Israel . Terror leaders have openly stated that higher death tolls benefit their cause . They work to increase civilian casualties by broadcasting messages in mosques and on social media , instructing Gazans to ignore Israeli evacuation warnings , and by physically blocking evacuations through roadblocks or even shooting those attempting to flee . In a blatant display of its anti-humanitarian values , Hamas increases civilian casualties in order to weaponise Western pain-empathy to gain support for their agenda . <p> But while the militants centre their narrative around victimhood to promote pain-empathy in Western audiences , they simultaneously promote a narrative as victor to excite their base . For example , militant propagandists sent the Western media images of Gazan suffering , while Hamas broadcast GoPro videos of torture and murder to their supporters to invigorate them . They highlighted their victimhood and suffering under the " occupation " of the " colonisers " . They played it brilliantly . <p> During the 2008 war in Gaza , the international media focused on gruesome and graphic coverage of casualties , sometimes called " war porn " , and transformed a complex conflict into a global emotional spectacle . CNN and the BBC amplified sympathy for Hamas , illustrating the devastating effectiveness of such psychological strategies . <p> While emotional empathy fosters connectedness , it can also have negative consequences , such as lying to benefit our group , prioritising our group 's interests over principles of justice and connecting so much to another group 's priorities that our empathy is self-destructive . <p> The ability to truly empathise -- combining emotional resonance with cognitive understanding -- requires a nuanced , fact-based model of others ' motivations . Without this balance , our empathy becomes a tool for manipulation . What can we do ? We must refine our cognitive frameworks to resist propaganda , anchoring our emotional responses in accurate understanding . While individual stories of suffering evoke deep empathy , they must be rescaled to reflect the true scope of the issue . Similarly , the compelling imagery of " blazer-wearing " revolutionaries for peace must be critically examined within the broader context of extremist violence and manipulation . <p> ? <p> Dr Orli Peter is a neuropsychologist who established the Israel Healing Initiative , a nonprofit dedicated to " healing trauma at the speed of science "
