<h> Holy Land patriarchs call for Christmas ceasefire across Middle East <p> ROME -- In their Christmas message this year , the church leaders and patriarchs of Jerusalem voiced gratitude for a recent ceasefire between Israel and Lebanon and called for the truce to be expanded throughout the region . <p> In their 2024 Christmas message , published Dec. 13 , the patriarchs and heads of churches in Jerusalem thanked God " for the recent ceasefire between two of the warring parties in our region , and we call for it to be expanded into Gaza and many other places , bringing an end to the wars that have plagued our part of the world . " <p> On Nov. 27 , Israel and Lebanon signed a ceasefire agreement along with several other mediating countries , including the United States , after conflict between the Israeli and Hezbollah forces erupted in October amid bloated tensions over the war in Gaza . <p> However , ongoing strikes in certain areas have brought the stability of the ceasefire into question , as both sides accuse each other of repeated violations and mediators attempt to maintain the fragile agreement . <p> Meanwhile , the ongoing war in Gaza , sparked after an Oct. 7 , 2023 , surprise attack on Israel by Hamas militants , has led to the deaths of over 45,000 Palestinians , according to health officials . <p> With the death toll continuing to rise amid continued fighting and a worsening humanitarian crisis , mediators such as Qatar , Egypt and the United States have increased their efforts to broker a ceasefire in Gaza . <p> Israel has pledged to continue its offensive until all hostages abducted during the October 2023 attack , which left 1,200 dead and saw over 250 others kidnapped , are released and Hamas completely ousted from power . <p> Palestinian health officials have said the death toll in Gaza has now reached 45,028 , most of whom are civilians , and that some 106,962 people have been wounded since the war began last fall . <p> However , the real number of casualties , officials say , is likely higher , as many are likely still buried under the rubble in areas that medics can not yet access . <p> In their Christmas message , the Holy Land church leaders focused on the light brought into the world by Jesus ' birth , saying Jesus is " the True Light shining in the darkness . " <p> They voiced their commitment to continuing to preach this message to their people " in the midst of these dark days of continuing conflict and uncertainty in our region . " <p> " In Christ 's nativity , the light of God 's salvation first came into the world , enlightening all who would receive him , both then and now , and offering them ' grace upon grace ' to overcome the dark forces of evil that ceaselessly conspire to bring about the destruction of God 's creation , " they said . <p> This light of Christ , they said , first dawned on their spiritual ancestors , " who received the message of salvation while dwelling ' in the region and shadow of death . ' " <p> " Enduring many hardships , they went on to pass along the holy light of Christ 's resurrection , becoming his witnesses in Jerusalem , throughout the Holy Land , and to the ends of the earth , " they said . <p> This path of light and redemption , the church leaders said , is not a relic of the past , but rather , it " leads us full-circle to our time , when wars still rage and untold millions in our region and around the globe continue to suffer grievously . " <p> For families who have chosen to stay in the Holy Land despite the ongoing war , and for those who have joined the community in spite of the violence , the region 's church leaders said that for them , being there is an honor . <p> " It is our privilege to continue to testify to the sacred light of Christ in the very places where he was born , ministered , and offered himself on our behalf , rising victoriously from the grave to a new resurrected life , " they said . <p> They said they send this message by worshipping God at the holy sites and by welcoming pilgrims , past and present , and by proclaiming the Gospel to all those they meet , while also performing works of mercy and charity , and advocating for " liberty for the captives , and release to the prisoners . " <p> In addition to calling for a regional ceasefire for Christmas , the church leaders also asked for " the release of all prisoners and captives , the return of the homeless and displaced , the treatment of the sick and wounded , the relief of those who hunger and thirst , the restoration of unjustly seized or threatened properties , and the rebuilding of all public and private civilian structures that have been damaged or destroyed . " <p> They called on Christians and all people of goodwill , during the Christmas season and beyond , to join them in praying and working " toward this noble mission , both in Christ 's homeland and wherever there is conflict and strife . " <p> " For by together doing so , we will indeed be truly honoring the Prince of Peace who was born so humbly in a stable in Bethlehem more than two millennia ago , " they said . <p> ( A woman and children pose for a " selfie " photo before a manger scene at the Notre Dame of Jerusalem Centre , a guesthouse for pilgrims , at the St Louis French Hospital in the old city of Jerusalem on December 11 , 2022 Photo by AHMAD GHARABLI/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> ( Archbishop Pierbattista Pizzaballa ( C ) , Apostolic Administrator of the Latin Patriarchate of Jerusalem , leads a mass in Saint Catherine 's Church where Christians believe the Virgin Mary gave birth to Jesus Christ , in the adjacent Church of the Nativity , on Christmas eve celebrations in the West Bank city of Bethlehem on December 24 , 2017 . ( Photo by Musa AL SHAER / AFP ) ( Photo by MUSA AL SHAER/AFP via Getty Images )
