<p> Israel has closed down its embassy in Ireland in response to what it called " the extreme anti-Israel policy of the Irish Government " . <p> The move came a week after Dublin formally joined South Africa 's case at the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) , accusing Israel of genocide , asking that the definition of the term be broadened to help prosecute Israeli leaders . <p> It also follows Ireland recognised a Palestinian state earlier this year and and declaring that it would arrest Benjamin Netanyahu , the Israeli prime minister , following an International Criminal Court war crimes arrest warrant . <p> On Sunday , Israel said it would withdraw its ambassador and close its embassy -- thought to be the first such move in a significant Western country . <p> Gideon Sa'ar , the Israeli foreign minister , said : " The actions and anti-Semitic rhetoric used by Ireland against Israel are based on delegitimisation and demonisation of the Jewish state , and double standards . Ireland crossed all the red lines in its relationship with Israel . " <p> He said Israel would invest its resources in building ties with other countries , ordering the opening of a new Israeli embassy in Moldova . Ireland 's prime ministers said the move to close the Dublin embassy was " regrettable " . <p> Gideon Sa'ar , the Israeli foreign minister , said Ireland had ' crossed all the red lines in its relationship with Israel ' Credit : Martin Divisek/Shutterstock <p> Last week , Ireland 's Department of Foreign Affairs said it had asked for a revision of the definition of genocide after over Hamas claims that more than 40,000 Palestinians have been killed since the Oct 7 attacks sparked the ongoing Gaza war . <p> Israel said at least 17,000 of those killed were militants , with a recent report by the Right-leaning Henry Jackson Society also casting doubt on the numbers provided by the Hamas-run ministry of health in Gaza . <p> " By legally intervening in South Africa 's case , Ireland will be asking the ICJ to broaden its interpretation of what constitutes the commission of genocide , " Ireland 's statement said . " We are concerned that a very narrow interpretation of what constitutes genocide leads to a culture of impunity in which the protection of civilians is minimised . " <p> Simon Harris , Ireland 's Taoiseach , said on Sunday : " Ireland wants a two-state solution , and for Israel and Palestine to live in peace and security . Ireland will always speak up for human rights and international law . Nothing will distract from that . " <p> Mr Netanyahu has rejected the idea of a two-state solution . <p> In May , Ireland formally recognised a Palestinian state as " a sovereign and independent state " alongside Spain and Norway in a symbolic move amid the war in Gaza , with the borders to be demarcated as they were prior to 1967 , with Jerusalem as the capital of both Israel and Palestine . <p> At the time , Ireland said it would upgrade its representative office in the West Bank to a full embassy , and the Palestinian mission in Ireland would also be offered full embassy status . <p> In a statement following Israel 's announcement Sunday , Ireland 's department of foreign affairs said it would not reciprocate by closing its embassy in Israel , which it said was " carrying out important work " . <p> " Ireland and Israel will continue to maintain diplomatic relations . Inherent in that is the right to agree and disagree on fundamental points , " the statement said , adding that Israel 's actions in Gaza after Oct 7 " represents the collective punishment of the Palestinian people in Gaza " . <p> After Oct 7 , death threats were made to Dana Erlich , the Israeli ambassador in Dublin . A package of white power , later determined to be sugar , was sent in the post along with pictures of Oct 7 victims and a note warning : " You 're next . " <p> Last month , a Jewish student wearing a Star of David was attacked in a nightclub in what was deemed a hate crime . <p> Ireland has long had an affinity with the Palestinian cause , likening the resistance to the Irish breakaway from Great Britain . <p> Yasser Arafat , the Palestinian Liberation Organisation leader , made trips to Ireland to work with Irish politicians , also hosting them in Gaza .
