<p> Israel is only ever permitted to die . That has been the position of the diplomatic elites , Leftist intelligentsia and much of the media for the past 14 months . Whether it was sending troops into Rafah , exploding Hezbollah 's pagers , assassinating terrorist leaders or wiping out Iran 's air defences , every action that would save Israeli lives has been opposed by somebody and some have been opposed by everybody . <p> Which brings us to Syria . Israel 's destruction of Assad 's weaponry last week was pivotal for regional stability . If it had not acted , fanatics like those filmed in Damascus last week yelling , " from here to Jerusalem , we 're coming for Jerusalem " , would control MiG warplanes , attack helicopters , surface-to-surface batteries and cruise missiles , not to mention chemical weapons . Hardly a recipe for peace . <p> The catchily-entitled United Nations special rapporteur on the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms While Countering Terrorism , however , saw things differently . " There is absolutely no basis under international law to preventively or pre-emptively disarm a country you do n't like , " Prof Ben Saul huffed . Now there was a man who had never seen the inside of a bomb shelter . <p> The BBC 's Jeremy Bowen , meanwhile , wondered whether Assad 's chemical weapons should have been kept safe for the next regime . " You could argue that if there is going to be a peaceful Syria then a reformed Syrian Arab Army should be part of it , " he mused on Radio 4 . That 's planet Bowen for you . <p> Show me Israelophobia and I 'll show you the irony . Aside from that UN job title ( the man in charge of " Countering Terrorism " condemns Israel for countering terrorism ) , Israel may have done more for regional counter-proliferation in a single week than the UN has achieved in eight decades . <p> On Thursday , a Syrian journalist appeared on Israeli television to " say thank you a million times to the State of Israel " . The special rapporteur should have been equally grateful . When gunmen attacked UN peacekeepers near the Syrian town of Hader on Saturday , the IDF was deployed across the border to save them . Was that also an infringement of " international law " ? <p> The loudest howls came when Israel temporarily seized a buffer zone along the frontier to prevent jihadi infiltration of its territory . Historian William Dalrymple 's reaction was typical . " Israel has just occupied a chunk of Syria , " he informed his 1.2 million followers on X. " Am yet to hear our government speak out against this new invasion of sovereign territory . " <p> Is Dalrymple aware of the 5,500 square miles of northwest Syria that Turkey has occupied for years ? According to Amnesty International , Erdogan 's men have shown " shameful disregard for civilian life , carrying out serious violations and war crimes , including summary killings and unlawful attacks " . <p> March through London anybody ? Debate at the Oxford Union ? A tweet ? <p> While Israel is a friendly democracy , Turkey -- a Nato member -- is a tight ally of Qatar , which until recently harboured some of Hamas 's leaders . Turkey is also the power behind Syria 's new overlords . When Aleppo fell , it was Turkey 's colours that flew above the iconic Citadel ; in a display of dominance on Thursday , Ankara 's spymaster , Ibrahim Kalin , prayed at the Great Mosque of Damascus . <p> Erdogan , who supports a range of Sunni jihadis , has become increasingly hardline in recent years . This is a man who controls gas pipelines and migrant flows into Europe . But the West 's Pavlovian Israelophobia blinds it to these dangers . <p> Which brings us to the gravest irony of all . While the bien pensant rain disparagement on Jerusalem , Israel 's youth stands firm against those who would also cut our throats . Think the jihadis of Syria , Lebanon and Gaza do n't dream of black flags in London ? Think again .
