<h> Latest stories <p> The Russians have been permanently based here since 2017 , propping up the Assad regime and overseeing the war against their many opponents . For now , though , what we do know , is that Russian convoys are withdrawing from bases across Syria and are heading for the Mediterranean Coast . On a dusty road near the main Russian entrance to Hmeimim air base near Latakia , I could see a convoy of Russian military vehicles trundling their way past the Russian-named shops . <p> Sean McGovern , a top lieutenant of the Kinahan cartel , and Faissal Taghi -- son of the infamous head of the Dutch-Moroccan Mocro Maffia -- used to hang out and party in Dubai 's glitzy hotels and restaurants without a care in the world.The US Treasury calls the Kinahan cartel a " threat to the entire licit economy " , with Washington slapping a $15-million bounty on the heads of its three leading members . <p> A former prison guard trainee who executed five women inside a Florida bank almost six years ago was sentenced to death on Monday as his judge called the slayings calculated , heinous and cruel . Zephen Xaver , 27 , appeared to gulp but otherwise showed no emotion as Circuit Judge Angela Cowden pronounced the sentence at the Highlands County Courthouse in Sebring . After a two-week penalty trial , a jury in June voted 9-3 to recommend that Cowden sentence Xaver to death . <p> Palestinian security forces have launched a rare crackdown against local militant groups in the northern West Bank , sending in armored cars and engaging in fierce gunbattles that have killed at least two people in the volatile area . The raid marks an unusual step for the Palestinian Authority , the governing body for semi-autonomous pockets in the occupied West Bank that is internationally recognized but has largely lost control of militant strongholds such as Jenin , where forces operated through the weekend and into Monday . Israeli troops have stepped into the vacuum in recent years , particularly since the Oct. 7 , 2023 , Hamas militant attack that triggered the ongoing war in Gaza . <p> West Bank residents were protesting Palestinian Authority operations against local militants in Jenin on Monday , December 16 . Footage filmed by Palestinian journalist Noor Alfaris shows men in riot gear throwing smoke bombs and protesters running away.The men in riot gear are wearing the uniform of the Palestinian Authority Security Forces , whose symbol is clearly visible at 00:32 . According to news reports , the Palestinian Authority launched its largest operation in years to regain control of Jenin from militants.At least three militants have been killed , as well as one civilian , pushing residents to take to the streets and protest the operation , according to The National.Al Jazeera said West Bank residents have been protesting for days following the beginning of the Palestinian Authority operations against the so-called " Jenin Battalion " of militants . Credit : Noor Alfaris via Storyful <p> A growing number of CEOs and executives are publicly supporting President-elect Donald Trump , marking a notable shift from his first term when business leaders were more hesitant to voice their backing . Yahoo Finance Senior Columnist Rick Newman examines this emerging trend of corporate support , exploring the motivations behind this stance . To watch more expert insights and analysis on the latest market action , check out more Market Domination&amp;nbsp ; here . This post was written by Angel Smith <p> President-elect&amp;nbsp ; Donald Trump&amp;nbsp ; says Ukrainian President&amp;nbsp ; Volodymyr Zelenskiy needs to be ready to make a deal to end the war with Russia . " Got to be a deal . Too many people being killed , " Trump said while speaking Monday at Mar-a-Lago , his Florida club . <p> Officials reported unmanned drones near Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Ohio over the weekend . Bob Purtiman , chief of public affairs for the 88th Air Base Wing at the base , said that the base closed for approximately four hours , from Friday night to early Saturday morning , after drones entered the restricted airspace , WTDN reported . " We ...
