<h> Anas Sarwar finds himself stuck between a rock and a hard place <h> Anas Sarwar finds himself stuck between a rock and a hard place <p> The leader of Labour 's Scottish branch will have to behave himself in the run-up to the 2026 election ( Image : Robert Perry ) <p> AS reported in The National , it 's a sad reflection that Anas Sarwar , quite rightly , feels the need to include " humility " in his desperation to get himself and his Scottish branch party re-elected . <p> Probably the whole of Scotland recognises the constant and incessant humiliation forced upon the Scottish Labour branch by Keir Starmer , to whom Sarwar can not afford to place the blame in fear of losing his job before 2026 . <p> READ MORE : Anas Sarwar refuses to blame Westminster for collapse in support <p> It 's between a rock and a hard place that Anas Sarwar now finds himself after three plus years of leadership as branch manager for the Scottish Labour Party . Sarwar has discovered that whatever his Scottish roots might emotionally suggest to him as to what is good for Scotland , any thought of Scottishness in his attempt to become Scotland 's first minister is null and void as far as his boss in Westminster is concerned . <p> Welcome to England 's united kingdom(s) , Anas . You will just have to behave yourself until 2026 if you 're lucky enough to retain your current managerial position by then . <p> In the meantime the wannabe Scarlet Pimpernel Anas Sarwar is as elusive as ever . <p> Previously even intrepid BBC reporters could not manage to seriouly confront this evasive character over his and his party 's many contrary stances on issues ranging from the two-child cap , the Winter Fuel Payment and earlier calls for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza . The prospects , therefore , of the UK mainstream media confronting this other snake-oil salesman over his prior knowledge of criminal charges against Labour councillors do not look great . <p> Perhaps voting with the Tories twice to " condemn free bus travel for asylum seekers " , and against all his own MSPs , was not a blunder but a calculated message to the Tories of his intent to work with Reform UK to become First Minister if the Tories are not prepared to enter a pre-election deal ( ' Careless ' Sarwar accidentally voted with the Tories ... TWICE , Dec 13 ) . <p> Surely an experienced politician with such a high opinion of himself must have been able to figure out by now which voting button to press ( clue -- red button for " no " ) , at least on his second attempt , especially given the potentially significant consequence of each vote in parliament ? <p> Stan Grodynski Longniddry , East Lothian <p> I MUST say I really chuckled when reading Saturday 's National front-page headline ( ' Doom loop ' will put Labour out at next election ) . It was evident to any politically literate observer in Scotland that the Labour Party was not impressing anybody apart from the many duped Scottish voters who fell for the " getting rid of the Tories " soundbite . <p> I wonder what proportion of these people absolutely regret falling for the same old , same old deceptive nonsense that is practised by Britnat politicians who follow the usual contemptuous philosophy that the naive Scots will typically fall for another con/soundbite , as practised in the 2014 referendum by the Bitter Together mob who should still be hiding in their bunkers when one peruses their whole list of lies and deceptions . That included the big porkie about remaining in the EU -- Brexit was then foisted on the Scottish people ( the majority of whom opposed it in 2016 and even more voters currently oppose it now ) . <p> It has become evidently clear that Rachel Reeves is another Chancellor who is " tinkering at the edges " and it was no surprise to me , and many other critical observers , that the economy would indeed shrink . Economic growth is earned by competent people who grasp the " nuts and bolts " of a functional macro economy and subsequently make effective decisions to make it happen . <p> One of the main blockers is the previously mentioned Brexit farce , and the Britnat/British government conspiracy of silence around Brexit still astounds me to this day , especially given there are so many pre-Brexit and post-Brexit independent economic studies/warnings available in the public domain . <p> Coupled with the fact UK national debt is around an eye-watering ? 3 trillion , it is no wonder that more and more people in Scotland are starting to " smell the coffee " and the prospect of an independent Scotland operating on its own terms and policies really becomes more and more attractive . <p> Bernie Japs Edinburgh <p> P DAVIDSON of Falkirk ( Letters , Dec 13 ) attempts to justify the recent attempt by SNP Westminster leader Stephen Flynn to obtain a seat in the Scottish Parliament by comparing it with a standard employment situation where a person applies for a job and generally does not resign from their current job until they have secured the new one . <p> However in Mr Flynn 's case firstly there was no vacancy . Mr Flynn had instead decided to depose the current holder of a seat in the Scottish Parliament . Secondly , as best I understand the situation , he had no intention of resigning from his current " employment " as a Westminster MP had he won that seat in the Scottish Parliament . <h> Why are you making commenting on The National only available to subscribers ? <p> We know there are thousands of National readers who want to debate , argue and go back and forth in the comments section of our stories . We 've got the most informed readers in Scotland , asking each other the big questions about the future of our country . <p> Unfortunately , though , these important debates are being spoiled by a vocal minority of trolls who are n't really interested in the issues , try to derail the conversations , register under fake names , and post vile abuse . <p> So that 's why we 've decided to make the ability to comment only available to our paying subscribers . That way , all the trolls who post abuse on our website will have to pay if they want to join the debate -- and risk a permanent ban from the account that they subscribe with . <p> The conversation will go back to what it should be about -- people who care passionately about the issues , but disagree constructively on what we should do about them . Let 's get that debate started ! <p> Callum Baird , Editor of The National <h> Comments : Our rules <p> We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues . The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege , not a right , however , and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused. <h> follow us <p> This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation 's Editors ' Code of Practice . If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then please contact the editor here . If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact IPSO here
