<h> Chameleon-like Donald Trump is having a chilling effect on his enemies already <p> I would like to be emailed about offers , event and updates from Evening Standard . Read our privacy notice . <p> The world is waiting to see which Donald Trump shows up on inauguration day , the troublemaker or the dealmaker . He is trying on both roles for size , threatening revenge on those he regards as the " enemy within " and making nice playing footsie with new friends and old foes who are willing to cosy up to him . It 's all going swimmingly . <p> " The first term , everybody was fighting me . In this term , everybody wants to be my friend , " Trump said at a news conference on Monday at Mar-a-Lago , his Florida resort . " I do n't know , my personality changed or something . " That 's hardly likely . In Trumpworld , as Michael Corleone says , it 's not personal , it 's business . But there 's also a recognition that Trump earned his victory . <p> " Donald Trump won . He won overwhelmingly , " the leading Republican critic , Mitt Romney , admitted on Meet the Press last weekend . " You ca n't complain about somebody who does what he said he was going to do . " <p> It 's significant that Trump used the phrase , " in this term " , as if his second presidency had already started . In his case , it 's justified . Once again , Mar-a-Lago is operating as Trump 's " winter White House " , where he used to entertain the likes of President Xi of China and Shinzo Abe , the late prime minister of Japan . It was quite the spectacle in full view of the club 's paying members . The joining fee has just been raised to $1 million . <p> The world 's richest men know what is in their interest <p> Since the 2024 election , foreign dignitaries such as Javier Millei , the chainsaw-wielding Argentine president , and Justin Trudeau , the embattled Canadian prime minister , have joined Trump at Mar-a-Lago -- the former to gloat about the election of a fellow populist , the latter to beg for relief from punitive 25 per cent trade tariffs . From afar , Middle Eastern potentates , such as Egypt 's President Sisi , have been in touch with the Trump administration over Gaza and Syria . <p> In a rare sighting at Mar-a-Lago , Melania was gracious enough to appear at a dinner honoring Akie Abe , the widow of the assassinated Japanese premier . The chief executive of SoftBank was on hand to promise Trump his Japanese company would invest $100 billion in US projects ( doubling a similar promise made in 2016 ) . <p> The world 's richest men know what is in their interest . Musk , now a fixture at Mar-a-Lago , has nearly doubled his wealth to $474 billion after investing $275 million in Trump 's re-election . All the tech giants have been trekking -- or rather jetting -- south to Florida . They include Google 's Sundar Pichai , Meta 's Mark Zuckerbeg and Apple 's Tim Cook , who has complained to Trump that Apple owes the EU ? 11 billion in back taxes after a court ruling . Separately , Google has been ordered to cough up ? 2 billion to Brussels . <p> Amazon titan Jeff Bezos , now worth a paltry $251 billion compared to Musk , is due to arrive at Mar-a-Lago this week with a promise to donate $1 million of his own money to Trump 's inaugural fund . Zuckerberg and Open AI 's Sam Altman have made the same personal commitment . For this , they will each receive six tickets to " exclusive events " , such as a candle-lit dinner with the Trumps and Vances , and the right to attend the " Starlight " inaugural ball . Amazon is also making an in-kind $ 1 million donation to stream the January 20 swearing-in ceremony on Prime Video . <p> Timothy Snyder , the well-known Yale historian , has been reminding people of his pamphlet , On Tyranny , published shortly after Trump 's inauguration in 2017 . Lesson one was : " Do not obey in advance . " But on top of the business advantage of courting Trump , there is the countervailing fear of retribution . <p> Reid Hoffman , the billionaire LinkedIn co-founder and prominent Democrat , is braced for blowback . " I think there 's a greater than 50% chance that there will be repercussions from a misdirection and corruption of the institutions of state to respond to my having tried to get Kamala Harris elected , " Hoffman said on the Diary of a CEO podcast . <p> The media , once the center of the Trump resistance , is doubly anguished by new directives from its owners <p> The media , once the center of the Trump resistance , is doubly anguished by new directives from its owners -- and the fear of sinking into irrelevance with voters . A Disney executive , Debra Connell , had dinner with Trump 's incoming chief of staff , Susie Wiles , shortly before its ABC News subsidiary offered to pay $15 million towards a future Trump presidential museum to settle a defamation case with Trump . <p> One of their top presenters , George Stephanopolous , had claimed on air that Trump had been " found liable for rape " in a case brought by former agony aunt E Jean Carroll ( a jury found him guilty of " sexual abuse " but the judge used the term " rape " in a different context ) . The climb-down has been described as a surrender to Trump 's threats but it is inconceivable that ABC News would want to fight the newly-elected president in court . <p> Trump 's lawyers have vowed not to pay a penny of the $83 million in damages owed to Carroll and are threatening to counter sue her for defaming his character . This week Trump launched a lawsuit against the Des Moines Register and its pollster J Ann Selzer , for running an eve-of-election poll showing him trailing Harris in Iowa , a state he won handsomely . He is also bringing a $10 billion lawsuit against CBS News for allegedly " doctoring " an interview ( they cut his quotes ) . <p> Win or lose , all this is bound to have a chilling effect on the media . Trump critics Joe Scarborough and Mika Brzezinski , the stars of Morning Joe on MSNBC , have already travelled to Mar-a-Lago in a bid to appease Trump 's anger at their coverage . And the Los Angeles Times 's owner , Patrick Soon-Shiong , killed an editorial criticising Trump 's cabinet picks and has warned the paper to stop obsessing about the president-elect . <p> What about Joe Biden ? The actual president is barely a spectre at Trump 's feast . Biden issued a perfunctory statement mourning the victims of this week 's school shooting in Wisconsin and lauding his own record on gun control . After pardoning his son Hunter for lying on his application for a gun permit , a period of silence from him on this matter would be welcome . <p> Sarah Baxter is director of the Marie Colvin Center and a contributing editor of the Standard
