<p> Hello . It looks like you 're using an ad blocker that may prevent our website from working properly . To receive the best experience possible , please make sure any ad blockers are switched off , or add https : **25;1049;TOOLONG to your trusted sites , and refresh the page . <h> A new Corbyn party on the left is good news for the right <p> Last week a YouGov poll put Labour on 47% -- some 27 points ahead of the Tories . That 's the good news , even if it 's an outlier . The bad news is that Jeremy Corbyn is said to be mulling the launch of a new left wing party , which -- if it stands candidates beyond his own constituency of Islington North -- could dent the size of Labour 's majority . <p> It would , on the face of it , be the left 's best chance in decades of creating something significant . Tiny Leninist groups are seeing their placards carried in record numbers on the Palestine solidarity demos . <p> But I hope Corbyn will think again . In October he told colleagues he was worried he might become a " prisoner " in such a party . And he was right . Whatever precautions he takes , such a party would be a magnet for overt antisemites , Putin acolytes , the British fan-club of Bashar al-Assad and an army of single-issue obsessives . <p> However , there are reasons why temptation might prove too great . On January 8 , Germany 's Left Party -- with 38 members in the Bundestag -- split , with the charismatic MP Sahra Wagenknecht forming a new party that instantly polled 14% . Wagenknecht 's personal brand is one of the strongest in German politics ; she has gained immediate momentum and 10 MPs . <p> If Corbyn wanted to do something similar , he might stand 15 or 20 " Peace and Justice " candidates in nominally safe Labour seats where Muslim councillors have quit the party over Gaza . He might gain support from the RMT , which already backs far-left electoral candidates . For infrastructure , there is no shortage of sympathetic campaigns , with email lists running to hundreds of thousands . <p> Though no other Labour MP could join him in this parliament , on pain of deselection , it 's not hard to imagine that a few might collaborate with him in the next , if he were to retain his seat due to local loyalties . He would then have something bigger than Reform UK : a parliamentary group , the backing of trade unions , a mass anti-war movement and some big social media figures -- all capable of putting pressure on the incoming Labour government . And if the BBC 's bosses were as generous to Corbyn as they are to Reform UK , that would do him no harm . <p> The response of Labour officialdom is to hope it does n't happen . But the prospect should be worrying Labour more than it is . Because suppressing something is not the same as winning the argument against it . And Labour still needs to win an argument with its own electoral base , even as it tries to seal the deal with 2019 Tory voters . <p> Labour 's programme for government revolves around " securonomics " . The tax take is the highest it has ever been ; debt is close to 100% of GDP , and with the fiscal fragility created under Liz Truss , the case for borrowing depends on the likelihood of growth . So everything depends on whether Rachel Reeves 's supply-side reform agenda works . <p> Success will depend on whether a mixture of planning reform , industrial strategy , pension fund regulation , a skills revolution and the financial " de-risking " of green energy investment can kickstart growth . That , plus NHS modernisation and a serious attempt to attack street crime , is the essence of Labour 's five missions . <p> The left 's response to securonomics has been muted . Its economists prefer a " big green state " to the measures needed to de-risk infrastructure and energy spending , and many still cling to the idea that you can tax and borrow your way out of the hole we 're in . <p> I want to persuade those tempted by the idea of a new left party that the Starmer project is a better bet . First , because progressive politics is under attack on all fronts : Brexit , the prospect of Trump 2.0 , Russia and Iran waging existential war on western values , and the return of open antisemitism under the guise of " anti-Zionism " . Corbyn has shown himself fatally weak on all such issues . <p> Around 80% of voters in Islington North backed a second referendum . Corbyn opposed it for as long as he could . He continues to associate with people calling for the destruction of Israel , and with left activists who openly support Putin 's war aims . He has waged a Europe-wide campaign to stop arms reaching Ukraine . <p> In this global crisis of democracy , social democracy needs to draw a line between itself and those on the left who think it 's cool to side with dictatorships . And fine , if you want a Leninist party go ahead -- but do n't pretend that has any continuity with what some of us tried to achieve in Labour between 2015 and 2019 . <p> Second , because from Day One of a Starmer government , an alliance of far-right populists , alt-media groups and Putin-friendly millionaires will be at war with it . They are already ramping up campaigns against abortion , refugee rights and climate science . This wo n't be a re-run of Blairism , where the business elite swings behind Cool Britannia 2.0 : the left will need to actively defend the agenda of a Labour government . <p> Third , and most importantly , because the securonomics agenda is right . If you think the markets treated Liz Truss harshly , wait until you see what they would do to a Labour government that tried to borrow its way to socialism . We need urgent progress towards clean energy , we need to re-industrialise and re-arm to meet the Russian threat . There is a left wing version of securonomics that sees the state playing a more directive role , and it may be needed if capital is slow to respond to the derisking strategy on offer . <p> But Starmer 's project is the only rational way to stop a further lurch to the right in British politics , and to address the continuous economic insecurity working-class people face . I want a left that 's part of it , not an opposition to it . <p> Hello . It looks like you 're using an ad blocker that may prevent our website from working properly . To receive the best experience possible , please make sure any ad blockers are switched off , or add https : **25;1076;TOOLONG to your trusted sites , and refresh the page .
