<p> In November last year , James Cropper PLC ( formerly known as Technical Fibre Products ) was one of 79 UK companies listed as having an open general export licence from the Department of Business and Trade for exports in support the F35 programme . <p> A giant paper plane was constructed to illustrate the group 's point ( Image : South Lakeland and Lancaster CND ) <p> F35s are built by Lockheed Martin in the USA but contain materials and components made by a variety of companies in several different locations . <p> Steve Adams , the James Cropper CEO , said at the company 's AGM earlier this year : " James Cropper Advanced Materials manufactures some of the highest quality non-woven materials available globally - our products have a broad range of applications including fire safety , corrosion prevention , light weighting and insulating materials , and we are proud to make these at our longstanding headquarters in Burneside . <p> " Working with hundreds of commercial customers , our products feature in finished products across multiple industries including aerospace and defence , as detailed on our website , where we directly and indirectly supply some of the world 's leading and most trusted manufacturers . <p> " Within the defence sector itself , we are a trusted supplier of materials for defence applications including in aircraft - we take a stance not to supply to ballistics or missiles systems . <p> " Our products are supplied only to commercial companies , often as part of complex and long-lead supply chains across various critical industries . <p> " We absolutely support everyone 's right to peacefully voice their opinions - we recognise the profound human suffering caused by the ongoing conflict in Gaza and we urge governments and the international community to collaborate to find a peaceful solution . " <h> Comments : Our rules <p> We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues . The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege , not a right , however , and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused. <h> follow us <p> This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation 's Editors ' Code of Practice . If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then please contact the editor here . If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact IPSO here
