<h> Does a global role await Yousaf ? Experts discuss prospects <p> Humza Yousaf has repeatedly spoken of his interest in international affairs and it is significant he chose to announce he would be standing down from Holyrood in 2026 during an interview with the Mehdi Hassan , founder of the new media organisation Zeteo . <p> Mr Hassan 's outlet has been highly critical of Israel 's bombing campaign in Gaza - which has now left least 45,059 people dead since October last year , according to figures from the Gaza health ministry this week . <p> The former first minister also told Mr Hassan of his desire " to make a contribution on the global stage " as he set out his pitch for a role underlining his experience of 12 years as a government minister . <p> " I think the time is right for me to step down , step away from frontline politics , and make way for the next generation of elected members , but also try to use my experience that decade and a half , where I 've been for 12 of those 15 years , a government minister in various roles , and I think I 've got a lot to contribute , things that I 've learned , of what to do , things I 've learned of what not to do , and hope to be able to use some of that experience to make a good contribution on the global stage , " he told Mr Hassan . <p> Mr Yousaf also underlined his hope to serve in an unspecified position relating to international matters in his letter to First Minister John Swinney outlining his decision not to stand again for election and stressed the same desires in an interview with The Herald 's Rebecca McCurdy . <p> " Where I 've got a real passion , is as you can see externally , I think there is far too much conflict in the world , " he told Ms McCurdy . <p> " I 'd be keen to see if there 's more that I could contribute in terms of conflict resolution , peace-making and tackling the rise of the far right . " <p> During his career as First Minister Mr Yousaf was praised for attending a service of solidarity at Giffnock Newton Mearns Synagogue for Bernard Cowan , a Scot killed in the Hamas attack on Israel in October last year , comforting Mr Cowan 's mother while his wife Nadia 's parents were stuck in Gaza . The couple eventually managed to make it to safety to Egypt and return to Scotland . <p> As First Minister Mr Yousaf attended the UN General Assembly in New York in September last year , announcing ? 2.5m over the next five years to support a fund which supports global action on the prevention of non-communicable diseases . <p> At the UN he also met with the director general of the WHO Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus - the first First Minister of Scotland to do so . <p> And while in New York his photograph glossed the cover of the magazine Time . " Meet Humza Yousaf , the new face of Scotland " , the interview declared . <p> But while experts do not question Mr Yousaf 's interest in and commitment to conflict resolution , some are divided on whether he does have the required experience for a position on the world stage . <p> Dr Patrick Theiner , Lecturer in Politics and International Relations at Edinburgh University , was a tad sceptical when The Herald spoke to him in June . Dr Theiner said the brevity of Mr Yousaf 's time in the role of First Minister could be a disadvantage . <p> " Mr Yousaf just has not had enough time to establish the necessary international profile despite some notable contributions . His appearance at the UN and feature in Time magazine are commendable , but do not match the diplomatic engagements and international recognition that his predecessor Nicola Sturgeon achieved over her years in office , " he said . <p> " He also does not have the domestic track record - notable policies or election victories - to force a UK government 's hand . And he is now no longer in a position to significantly elevate either his domestic or international profile under his own power . " <p> However , the academic did suggest his work on Palestine could be a route to a new international role for Mr Yousaf . <p> " The only opening I see is one that he leverages his personal connections to Palestine , and he 's been rightly praised for his position in the past months , " he added . <p> Professor Chris Carman , Stevenson Professor of Citizenship in the School of Social and Political Sciences , was more upbeat about Mr Yousaf 's future prospects on securing a role on the world stage . <p> " First , for as long as I 've known him , Humza Yousaf has been a person who has a strong sense that he has something to contribute to make Scotland and the wider world a better place . Whilst reasonable people will disagree on the relative success of his time as First Minister , I would think that even his political opponents would agree that Mr Yousaf has a strong commitment to public service , " he told The Herald today . <p> " Second , Humza Yousaf has a long-standing interest in international affairs and the wider world . It will probably not surprise many to know that when he was an undergraduate student in my American Politics class he was regularly one of the most outspoken students in the room . He asked questions and raised points of debate , reflecting his interests in global affairs . <p> " Those two points -- his commitment to public service and his keen interest in international and global affairs -- combined with his contributions on issues relating to Middle Eastern events and politics to date would lead me to think that he would not have too much trouble landing a prominent role in an international organisation . " <h> Why are you making commenting on The Herald only available to subscribers ? <p> It should have been a safe space for informed debate , somewhere for readers to discuss issues around the biggest stories of the day , but all too often the below the line comments on most websites have become bogged down by off-topic discussions and abuse . <p> heraldscotland.com is tackling this problem by allowing only subscribers to comment . <p> We are doing this to improve the experience for our loyal readers and we believe it will reduce the ability of trolls and troublemakers , who occasionally find their way onto our site , to abuse our journalists and readers . We also hope it will help the comments section fulfil its promise as a part of Scotland 's conversation with itself . <p> We are lucky at The Herald . We are read by an informed , educated readership who can add their knowledge and insights to our stories . <p> That is invaluable . <p> We are making the subscriber-only change to support our valued readers , who tell us they do n't want the site cluttered up with irrelevant comments , untruths and abuse . <p> In the past , the journalist 's job was to collect and distribute information to the audience . Technology means that readers can shape a discussion . We look forward to hearing from you on heraldscotland.com <h> Comments &amp; Moderation <p> Readers ' comments : You are personally liable for the content of any comments you upload to this website , so please act responsibly . We do not pre-moderate or monitor readers ' comments appearing on our websites , but we do post-moderate in response to complaints we receive or otherwise when a potential problem comes to our attention . You can make a complaint by using the ' report this post ' link . We may then apply our discretion under the user terms to amend or delete comments . <p> Post moderation is undertaken full-time 9am-6pm on weekdays , and on a part-time basis outwith those hours . <h> follow us <p> This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation 's Editors ' Code of Practice . If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then please contact the editor here . If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact IPSO here
