<p> Clubs are closing , a new generation is less keen on going out and bashing their bonces with garries -- yet raving is discussed more than ever , with endless books and academic articles discussing the dancefloor as a utopia . Chal Ravens asks what this phenomenon tells us about the state of modern raving . <p> The biggest trend in British dance music is n't DJs rinsing Spice Girls edits or men in dressing gowns playing trance on TikTok , depressing as those actualities may be . No , the real shift underway is that clubs are in decline . Festival lineups may be packed with cost-effective DJs , but dedicated venues continue to shut down at an alarming rate -- by one count , we 're losing five a week in the UK . Parties are more expensive to put on , tickets are harder to shift , and raving as British weekend culture is being crushed by everything from the cost-of-living crisis to dating apps and gym culture . While big festivals from Glastonbury to All Points East are increasingly dominated by dance lineups , many small clubs -- the spots where the new , weird and interesting music actually happens -- can barely afford to keep the lights on . <p> What 's weird , though , is that I ca n't remember a time when people talked about dancing as much as they are right now , despite apparently not doing it as much . In the last few years I 've bought three books specifically about dancing -- more than in 10 years of writing about dance music -- and noticed rave-themed reading groups popping up to analyse them . At the ICA in London , for instance , participants have been discussing " what it means to rave in the contemporary moment " via close readings of writers and choreographers . It 's now standard practice for festivals to run panel talks alongside the music , talking about issues like inclusion on dancefloors and creating safe(r) spaces . <p> What 's going on here ? Could it be possible that the idea of " the rave " has become more appealing than actually going out ? It 's certainly a Friday night feeling I 've had once or twice . But there 's a strange contradiction to be untangled : we seem to be celebrating and analysing raving at the very moment that it 's in retreat as a cultural mainstay , no longer such an inevitable rite of passage for British youth , nor such a powerful engine for transmitting sonic vanguardism to the masses . So why now ? <p> Thinking back to my first experiences in London clubs in the mid-00s , I do n't remember anyone talking about dancing much . " Dance music " was a term that described the music itself , not the varieties of self-expression on the dancefloor , or anything like moves , routines or choreography . Dance music as a pastime was about collecting and organising specialist knowledge , and then gatekeeping it in myriad ways . In her 90s sociological study of dance music , Sarah Thornton described club culture as a competitive attempt to hoard cultural capital -- a game that men usually won . That chimes with my early club experiences , when women DJs were still extremely rare , and the emphasis on ( knowing about ) music over ( feeling about ) dancing was made clear on overcrowded dancefloors where the DJ was always the focal point , whether you were in a premium superclub or under a grotty railway arch . <p> But the current interest in talking about dancefloors suggests an inversion of the dance-to-music hierarchy . It 's not that there 's suddenly more room to dance , or that our moves are any more interesting -- it 's more that the focus of clubbing has shifted away from records , labels and genres ; away from ranking , cataloguing and classifying ; away from the content of dance music and towards its context . DJs might dispute this . Fine -- it 's their job to be custodians of the knowledge , conservators of the lineage and all that . But if you 've been hanging around dance music for long enough , you may also have sensed this reorientation back towards the dancefloor : a heightened sensitivity to vibes and moods , a preoccupation with the makeup of the crowd and the inclusion and exclusion of various groups , and at the very edge of all that , dancing itself . <p> Warren 's extremely readable book upends the usual rave-historical approach by centring her own experiences of dancing , not just in clubs but in live venues , community centres , after-school classes and living rooms , before expanding to dancefloors throughout time and space , from the jazz panic in Irish dancehalls to dubstep nights at Plastic People . It 's a book about " improvised , ordinary dancing , " as she puts it , and in particular it 's written for those like Warren -- a longtime music journalist -- who love to dance but do n't consider themselves dancers , perhaps due to shyness or even dyspraxia . It also reads as a gentle rejection of dance music 's knowledge-hoarding and gatekeeping tendencies , and a feminist rebuttal to the shelves of dance music history that care more about drum machines than people . Her point is not just that dancing is good for you , both physically and mentally ( there 's plenty of research to prove that ) but to encourage us to dance more freely than we do , regardless of our perceived talents . <p> Some people do n't need any extra encouragement . Wark 's compact book of " auto-theory " takes just one type of dancing as its example , reflecting on her nights out in New York 's growing underground rave scene in the years before , during and after the pandemic . The music is important ( with the kick drum paramount ) but specific records are not . She names a few DJs but tells us more about the clothes she 's wearing , a dancefloor crush that does n't pan out , and the chemical rituals that offer dissociation as a homebrew method of processing both her gender dysphoria and her life of alienated labour : " Techno pounds the living shit out of my brain , freeing it from nagging worries about emails unsent . " <p> Are books like these a reflection of a changing mood on dancefloors , or does writing about raving have its own influence on club culture ? I 'm tempted to think that the latter could be true , because Wark , a philosopher and academic , is one of the curators of Writing on Raving , a reading and performance series that continues where the book leaves off , with the lofty intent to " celebrate , critique , contextualize and vibe-check the rave " . At the ICA , the raving reading group was directly inspired by Wark 's book , while at Nowadays , a club in Queens , DJ Voices ' Late Nites Book Club has led discussions of Mark Harrison 's Spiral Tribe memoir and an ethnography of Goa trance . <p> Another book chosen for the Late Nites series is Together Somehow , written by Garcia Mispireta as an ethnographical study of the minimal techno clubs of Berlin , Paris and Chicago in the late 2000s and early 2010s . This academic book is not a typical sociological portrait of a subculture and its rules and symbols , but an attempt to theorise some of the most nebulous aspects of the rave experience , like the spontaneous intimacy that arises between strangers on the dancefloor . Garcia Mispireta ( also known as a co-organiser of queer Berlin club night Room 4 Resistance ) catalogues the tiniest of interactions -- conversations , gestures , limbs brushing against each other -- in order to reveal the paradoxes lurking behind these momentary utopias . In one section , he looks at how strict door policies function to create a vision of " managed diversity " on the dancefloor that in fact disguises acts of discrimination against undesirable bodies . Raving , in his opinion , is not some kind of proto-revolutionary social panacea , but it is a useful compromise in the here and now : a temporary obfuscation of difference that 's nonetheless powerful . <p> Having taken a 20-year break from clubbing and since transitioned , Wark thinks that any revolutionary potential once embodied in rave has long faded -- but even still , " a good rave , on a good night -- that is where I can feel like my body is not an anomaly , or rather : not the only anomaly . " Dancing offers her a feeling of dissociation that extends from her body to time itself , opening up a temporary void of " world-historical dissociation " that allows her to switch off from the bleak headlines and " forget that there 's no future " . <p> It 's probably no coincidence that none of these authors are straight men , whom Wark identifies as the group least likely to take up rave 's offer of bodily euphoria and dissolution , pitying those who " ca n't let the beat take them . Ca n't dissociate out of their masculinity . " That 's a sentiment I felt but could n't quite articulate back in the mid-00s , when I mostly went to straight techno clubs and got bored with dancing that felt regimented and lacking in expression . Dancing is a technology for escaping our bodies by submitting to the beat , says Wark -- therefore rave " is for the ones who can dissociate out of the enclosed shell of their bodies , into the mix . " <p> This is rarefied language in which to talk about getting off your box and dancing until daylight , an experience plenty of people have had without wanting to write a book about it . Still , Raving belongs to a tradition that stretches back to the mid-90s , when techgnostics and cyberpunks were cooking up their own theory-fiction about " the chemical generation " , coining neologisms adapted from the hard sciences of computing , virology and genetics . This time , though , academic writing on rave is fleshy and gaseous , focused on bodies , moods and vibes -- which itself is a reflection of the so-called " affective turn " in philosophy and cultural studies , subjects that attract more than their fair share of ravers and DJs as students . <p> The essayist Geoffrey Mak , who co-founded the Writing On Raving series , suggested to me in an email that the " academisation of the rave " is related to the culture 's " increasing proximity to the art world , which relies on critical theory to justify itself . " At first I did n't see the connection . Why would rave culture be any closer to the art world than it was 20 years ago ? But Chris Zaldua , another American writer and DJ who wrote an essay for Writing On Raving , thinks the " academisation " has been fuelled by the increasing inaccessibility of the institutional art world . " The kind of young , smart , arty people who would 've written about visual art in ArtForum magazine before are turning their analytical mind toward rave , " he told me by email , " because it still feels transgressive , and because it 's a community-focused activity just as that becomes harder to find . " Feeling atomised and alienated by a world ruled over by privatised platforms , surveillance technology and engagement metrics , we might approach a mass of sweaty bodies in a room as the beginnings of a counterculture . <p> One confusing factor is that while clubbing in the UK has slowly retreated from its mainstream position as a driving force of youth culture , the opposite has happened in North America , where rave culture has shaken off the baggy PLUR vibes of the 90s underground and been juiced up by a generation who discovered electronic music after the 2010s EDM explosion . This expansion has been a boon for rave-theorising , too . LA-based journalist Michelle Lhooq has been following these developments for years in her Rave New World newsletter , clocking the interactions between America 's post-EDM underground and the West Coast stoner-psychedelic scene , embodied in her own non-alcoholic Shroom Rave party . ( To close the circle , Lhooq recently joined Wark for a recorded conversation about the " phenomenological , spiritual , and cultural aspects of raving " for the Brooklyn Psychedelic Society . ) <p> Looking on from this side of the Atlantic , I wonder if I sometimes detect a note of puritanical moralism in the American academisation of rave ? There seems to be a need to justify all this hedonism and excess pleasure as , in fact , an important technique of self-actualisation or community building or other meaning-making activity , in a way that does n't occur so readily to Brits , for whom alcohol is the problematic cornerstone of social life . That 's not to deny the possibility that raves can be zones of personal and political transformation , but I 'm reminded of the wellness lingo that 's attached itself to the " psychedelic renaissance " in clinical and therapeutic settings . People are now paying thousands of dollars to have a life-changing epiphany at the ketamine clinic , even though they could roll the dice on the same experience -- or a totally different , much weirder and more entertaining one -- for a hundredth of the price at 5am in the club . <p> This tendency towards academisation has turned the dancefloor into a kind of ideological zone of contestation rather than just a receptacle for weekend hedonism . It has also coincided with an increasing politicisation of club culture over the last decade , from the 2010s rejection of #allmalelineups through to the current mobilisation around the genocide in Gaza . In music magazines , artist profiles and scene reports are often framed around a political or identitarian aspect of club culture , from the reclamation of Black and queer histories within a white-washed mainstream , to lesser-heard narratives around mental health , neurodivergence and disability . <p> Mostly this development has been a welcome course-correction for club culture , even if we 've had to cringe through brand activations like Smirnoff 's Equalizer , a campaign designed to embarrass you into listening to more women producers on Spotify . But sometimes the desire to trace progressive politics onto partying has produced paper-thin readings of club culture , particularly when simplified for mass consumption . In a pessimistic polemic for The Baffler recently , Hubert Adjei-Kontoh dismissed dancefloor politics as a mixture of revolutionary cosplay and clout-chasing hypocrisy . Criticising the music press for their performative allyship in response to Black Lives Matter , he suggested that what " socially aware " clubgoers actually want from politics " is the relevance that a superficial commitment to identity politics provides along with a justification for hedonism . " <p> He is n't wrong to detect the self-serving motivations of the music press , though I doubt he 's going to the kind of parties that Garcia Mispireta hosts , where dancefloor politics means something concrete , whether it 's harm reduction initiatives or solidarity with Palestine ( even when that comes at a cost ) . Adjei-Kontoh 's conclusion is that raves , as events " curated to a self-selecting minority " , can not lead to successful political actions . But recent history suggests that communities built on dancefloors are highly capable of mobilising when events demand it , whether internally , like setting higher standards for community care after Covid , or externally , like the protests and boycotts against the genocide in Gaza led by Strike Germany and Ravers 4 Palestine . <p> The fact that this conversation made it into the pages of The Baffler , the " magazine of art , criticism , and political analysis , " only demonstrates the broad relevance that raving now has to another self-selecting minority , that of highbrow magazine subscribers in America . What have we gained in this transition , then ? Does imposing academic jargon onto a party help to document the culture for posterity ? Or , as journalist Emily Witt suggested in her New Yorker review of Wark 's book , does it subject raving to a process of " museum-ification " ? Does the academisation of rave do anything to secure its future ? There 's no real mechanism for this in the UK or the US , where the academy is already viewed with suspicion by politicians and the media . Let 's see if UNESCO 's badge of recognition for Berlin techno prevents any clubs from being shut down . ( As it happens , Witt is about to publish her own book about dancing , a memoir of NYC raving in the 2010s called Health And Safety : A Breakdown . ) <p> The rave experience , like the psychedelic experience , is highly resistant to being recreated through language . No amount of theorising is likely to change that ; I doubt that the " wrong " ideas will take hold , or even that the wrong politics will be inscribed into the scene . Nothing is ever so concrete . Just as the existence of trip reports on Erowid never ruined anyone 's acid revelation , trying to pin down the route to Wark 's so-called " xeno-euphoria " ( a " euphoric state of welcome strangeness " ) could never subtract from its glow once you get there . <p> Raves and trips exist in similar in-between zones , where two things can be true at once . Partying is political ; partying changes nothing . Raving is reconstitutive ; raving is self-destructive . Reconnect with your body ; dissociate from your body . Thousands of people already go clubbing every week without ever being exposed to this discursive niche-within-a-niche , and that 's just fine . The important thing is that they 've still got somewhere to go next weekend , and the weekend after that . I would hope that our late-onset celebration of rave does n't also serve as its eulogy , but as I said , two things can be true at once .
