<h> Read More <h> Related Articles <p> He said : " My successor is no longer encumbered with that deal . He can make decisions in policy that he wants to take forward in our country 's interest without having to negotiate and compromise with the Greens . They can do that on an issue by issue basis , which I think is the best way to do it . " <p> In an interview with broadcaster Mehdi Hasan , Yousaf confirmed he was stepping back " from frontline politics altogether " . <p> Asked what he would do next , the MSP said : " I 've got a lot to contribute and hope to be able to use my experience and make that contribution on the global stage . <p> " I would love to contribute to , particularly conflict resolution across the world and peacemaking , because there 's far too much conflict in our world , and it seems to only be getting worse , and I 'm also very passionate about tackling the far right and the rise of populism in the UK , Europe and the West . <p> " So I 've got a bit of time before the next Scottish elections , 2026 but it certainly wo n't stop me from speaking out and the issues that I 'm very passionate about , both at home and abroad . " <p> Asked if he had failed on the delivering independence , Yousaf said it was " probably the biggest regret I have in my political career is not convincing people in Scotland enough to vote for independence in 2014 and not winning that referendum . " <p> He added : " Because if we had won that referendum , we probably would n't have been dragged out of Europe against our will . We would not have had things like the disastrous implications of Liz Truss 's budget . We would not be tied to UK Foreign Policy , which I think has been disastrous , in reference to Gaza , as well as other issues as well . <p> " So it 's one of the biggest regrets , probably the biggest regret I have in my political career , that I could n't convince , we could n't convince the Scottish people to vote for independence , and twe have n't created the conditions for a second referendum yet . <p> " There 's no quick fire shortcut to getting independence , I 'm afraid , no wildcat referendum , no UDI , only a legal route , but what you 've got is an impasse between the Scottish Government and UK Government . <p> " And one of the things I 've called for is look , how do we respect the democratic mandate of Scotland ? And I think there should be some outreach to maybe even international mediators . How do you mediate between the UK Government and Scottish Government to break through that impasse ? Because if this is a voluntary union , how on earth does Scotland leave ? " <p> The former SNP leader also spoke about his recent spat with Elon Musk and the tech billionaire 's growing influence in American politics . <p> " He is apparently sitting in the interviews for chief of staff , for secretaries of state and living in Mar-a-Lago , " he said . " And if he is trying to emulate that influence in the next UK general election , that should -- as I say -- ring alarm bells right up and down the country . " <p> John Swinney , who succeeded Yousaf as First Minister , said : " I am sorry to see Humza Yousaf stepping down from the Scottish Parliament . <p> " He has been a pioneer in Scottish politics . I value all he has contributed to Scottish Government and the SNP and look forward to his continued involvement . I wish Humza , Nadia and their family much peace together . " <p> Patrick Harvie , Scottish Greens co-leader , said : " There were areas where we agreed and areas where we disagreed . I always believed , and he eventually came to accept , that his decision to end the cooperation agreement between our parties was a mistake . <p> " But even those events never stopped me liking and respecting Humza , and nobody could doubt his commitment to his job or to building a fairer and better Scotland . "
