<h> Follow us <h> Will Syria 's new rulers abandon resistance to Israel ? <p> Israel has visited so much injustice and grief on Palestinians , Lebanese , and Syrians alike . So uniting with resistance forces in the region should remain high on Damascus 's agenda <p> Israeli military vehicles ride through Syria close to the ceasefire line between the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights and Syria , as seen from Majdal Shams in the Golan Heights on 15 December , 2024 ( Reuters ) <p> Thanks to its adjacent geography and shared history , Syria has always been at the heart of the struggle for liberating Palestine . Its role , however , has fluctuated over time . <p> After the 1973 war and Egypt 's unilateral normalisation with Israel , Syria 's direct military involvement came to a halt , save sporadic confrontations during the Lebanese civil war . <p> Its indirect role in armed resistance , however , rose to prominence after the collapse of the Madrid conference launched in 1991 . Shortly after , Israel promptly signed the Oslo Accords with the Palestine Liberation Organization ( PLO ) and Wadi Araba Treaty with Jordan . Syria became the only frontier Arab state , after Lebanon , to stay out of the bandwagon of normalisation . <p> Despite suppressing resistance in the occupied Golan Heights , Syria under Assad rule remained a vital backer of the Hezbollah-led resistance against Israeli occupation next door . It provided major logistical support and geostrategic depth . The liberation of south Lebanon in 2000 and the 2006 war strengthened these ties and justified the rationale behind them . <p> By contrast , and save a few exceptions , Damascus ' relationship with the Palestinian resistance was always rocky . But a diplomatic rapprochement with Hamas in 2022 brought them closer under the wider umbrella of the alliance known as the " axis of resistance " . <h> New MEE newsletter : Jerusalem Dispatch <h> Sign up to get the latest insights and analysis on Israel-Palestine , alongside Turkey Unpacked and other MEE newsletters <h> Worrisome signs <p> Israel 's genocidal war on Gaza and its large-scale offensive in Lebanon put the strength of this axis to the test . Since the latter broke out in late September , the willingness of Iran , and more so Syria , to stake out their commitment to support Hezbollah and Hamas became suspect . <p> The fall of Assad turned the tables altogether . In addition to profound domestic repercussions , his ouster cast severe doubt on the future of Syria 's role as a whole in resisting Israel and US imperialism in the region . <p> The early signs are worrisome . Prior to entering Damascus , earlier public pronouncements by the leader of Hay'at Tahrir al Sham ( HTS ) , Ahmed al-Sharaa , also known as Abu Mohammad al-Jolani , focused on fighting the " Iranian project " while expressing tolerance of US bases in the country and ignoring Israel . <p> Al-Jolani 's response remained lukewarm . While Israel nullified the 1974 " separation of forces " agreement , he clung to it by stressing that his forces are not seeking to fight Israel . He appealed - in typical Arab regime fashion - to the international community to put pressure on Tel Aviv . <p> Of equal worry is the reported closing down of military training camps of Palestinian factions associated with the deposed regime and the confirmation by Hezbollah 's new secretary general , Naim Qassim , that the supply line from Syria has been cut . Qasim tried to downplay the impact of such a cut . But it bodes ill for long-term recovery and manoeuvrability . <p> Proponents of severing ties with Hezbollah will argue that it is justified in light of Hezbollah 's intervention in the Syrian civil war to prop up the repressive Assad regime . There is now bad blood between the two . But this is half the truth . <p> Supporters of the intervention point out that it was motivated by the necessity to defend the resistance supply lines . Spurred by ideological convenience , each camp has ignored the other 's perspective . <p> The historical - even if uncomfortable - truth is that both sides of the story are valid . Whatever grudges remain , it should not obscure the fact that it is in the interest of the peoples of the region that a united front is maintained against Israeli aggression and occupation . <h> Neutrality : A losing strategy <p> There is room for goodwill to prevail if the new power in Syria is serious about resisting Israel and liberating occupied Syrian land let alone Palestine . <p> The main bone of contention , the Assad regime , is now gone . Iran 's influence has waned and Hezbollah 's principled stance over Gaza revived its appreciation , if not popularity , in the wider Arab region . <p> There is room for goodwill to prevail if the new power in Syria is serious about resisting Israel and liberating occupied Syrian land , let alone Palestine <p> More importantly , Israel is conducting a multi-front expansionist war without regard to or distinction between Palestinian , Lebanese , or Syrian interests . The strategic benefits of retaining an alliance with resistance forces in Lebanon and Palestine are self-evident . <p> The path to consolidating such an alliance with Hezbollah may be arduous . It may require a series of trust-building measures , including the introduction of a reciprocal restorative justice process to account for past transgressions . Mapping out a common vision of cooperation could retain the strength of the past alliance and avoid any pitfalls . <p> The alternative scenario would be igniting a vendetta against Hezbollah ranging from border clashes to permanently cutting its supply lines , while paying lip service to supporting Palestinian resistance a la other Arab regimes . Such a policy is the US and Israel 's wet imperialist dream . It is a recipe for further sectarian strife and the neutralisation of the last frontier Arab state . <p> A " neutral " Syria , aligned with Turkey or Arab Gulf states , will not return the Golan Heights either . Unlike Egypt 's case , when late President Anwar al-Sadat justified his capitulation by recovering Sinai , Syria is in a much weaker position to demand such an outcome . <h> Uniting forces <p> Israel 's annexation of the Golan has been blessed by the incumbent US President Donald Trump . Israel officials continue to insist it will remain theirs forever . Decoupling from Hezbollah will further weaken the bargaining position of Syria . <p> Syria after Assad : As a new era dawns , could there be hope for Palestine ? <p> For too long , the Assad regime invoked the conflict with Israel to justify its repressive measures against its people . Its opponents have long dared it to launch resistance in the Golan . Now that the opposition is in power , no such plan is in sight . <p> But the new winners may flip this equation on its head and use state-building and economic developmentas a pretext to avoid confronting Israeli occupation and aggression altogether . <p> Fighting colonialism and authoritarianism should not be exclusive . <p> Whatever the domestic agenda of the new Syria , uniting with resistance forces in the region and beyond remains key to liberation from a settler-colonial project that has visited so much injustice and grief on Palestinians , Lebanese , and Syrians alike . <p> The views expressed in this article belong to the author and do not necessarily reflect the editorial policy of Middle East Eye . <p> Hicham Safieddine is Canada Research Chair in the History of the Modern Middle East and Associate Professor of History at the University of British Columbia . He is author of Banking on the State : The Financial Foundations of Lebanon ( SUP , 2019 ) , editor of Arab Marxism and National Liberation : Selected Writings of Mahdi Amel ( Brill , 2020 ) , and co-editor of The Clarion of Syria : A Patriot 's Call against the Civil War of 1860 ( CUP , 2019 ) . <p> Middle East Eye delivers independent and unrivalled coverage and analysis of the Middle East , North Africa and beyond . To learn more about republishing this content and the associated fees , please fill out this form . More about MEE can be found here .
