<h> Pete Doherty : " I do n't think I ever dared to dream that I 'd still be knocking about " <p> Watch The Libertines frontman ( and his dog Gladys ) sit down with NME to look over a huge comeback year and tell us about family life , his record label , the battle for new music , the return of Babyshambles , impersonating Radiohead , and what 2025 has in store <p> We meet Pete Doherty at his Islington hotel in between radio spots and a nearby charity gig . Crammed on a tiny sofa , we 're joined by an unexpected guest that wo n't leave his side and insists on splaying themselves between us -- his absolute bear of a dog , Gladys . " We tried to put her on the other side of the room , but what are you going to do ? " shrugs Doherty . " She 's 60 kilos of brawn ! " <p> While Doherty hotel stays of the past may have once been full of far less adorable figures , the scene today is a lot more wholesome . The now-clean Pete has his wife and child in-tow , and it seems nigh-on unimaginable that the rozzers might be waiting outside to charge through the Christmas shoppers and raid the room of the former tabloid fodder frontman as they once might have . In the spirit of the season , these days are all about a little more of that sweet and heavenly peace . Is he feeling festive ? <p> " Yeah , I suppose so ! " he replies . " We 've got the baby , and we 're going to be spending Christmas with family . It 's all around the tree and the stuffing and that . I get into all that . It 's nice to be pottering about London today , seeing all the office parties having their Christmas dos with everyone letting their hair down ; letting their guard down maybe . " <p> He did n't fancy crashing any Christmas parties , then ? <p> Advertisement <p> " I was invited over for a few drunken selfies . Not me drunk , by the way -- the office parties . " Of course . " It 's interesting . It is one of the last things now in this dissipating society we live in , these end times , it 's one of the things that brings out the better side of people . That idea of peace on Earth is obviously null and void this year , but goodwill ? I do n't see it as a corny or clich ? thing . I believe in community , I believe in charity . Coming together for whatever reason helps break down borders of all kinds . " <h> Recommended <p> " At the same time , the band seemed to come together , " he says of his bond with fellow ' Likely Lads ' Carl Bar ? t , John Hassall and Gary Powell . " As a musical force , we 've had moments of unity that were unparalleled , but just as mates and as a family , it was our best time . " <p> Check out our full interview with Doherty below or watch it above , where he tells us about taking stock , growing up , how to run a record label , new music , and the future of The Libs and Babyshambles . <p> NME : Hello , Pete . The last time we spoke , Carl described the making of this album as " the first time you were all truly facing the same direction " . Did all that harmony carry on through ? <p> Pete Doherty : " Yes , up to a certain point . Obviously Gladys comes with me everywhere , but I do have another dog . When he came with me on tour , I was actually banned from the band bus . One baby , a wife and two dogs was too much , so I was put on the crew bus . But you know what ? The crew bus is a fucking cool place to be ! I do n't want them the dogs to be any place they 're not welcome . It 's not that they 're not welcome ; it 's just that Gladys likes to know where she is . She 'll have a sniff around at night to see who 's in the bunk , and that was too much for Carl . " <p> Advertisement <p> Is Carl not a dog person ? <p> " He is a dog person , he just does n't like to have his groin nuzzled in his sleep at night . At least not by Gladys ! " <p> Eyyooo . Now with Christmas approaching also comes the end of the year , which means we 're now almost a quarter of the way through the 21st Century . In the year 2000 , where did you imagine you 'd be 25 years later ? Did you think you 'd still be a Libertine and a father ? <p> " I was a father around then in that I have 20-year-old son now , but I was n't a hands-on father in many ways . It 's what I always wanted . I always wanted a close-knit family that I was there with and for . Now I 'm married as well and settled in a lot of ways . Maybe that 's what a lot of people want , really -- that sort of nest . That nest and loving environment . I do n't know if I dared to dream it was possible . <p> " At that time , the turn of the century , 2025 seemed a hell of a long way off . I think we all imagined it was going to be hover cars and light sabres , which probably do exist but only for the upper echelons of the American military . <p> Elon Musk has probably got one . <p> " Oh of course he has , yeah , but not around here . There are no hover cars in Angel . Anyway , you 've thrown me a little bit with that question . It 's a really good question but something I 'd probably like to sit and think about for a moment . I really wonder what I thought of the future , I never really thought a lot about it . That time in the early 2000s was in our NME glory days of being on the cover . This was the very early days of the internet when the only thing it was used for was very slow to upload forums , and you 'd go down the internet cafe because you could n't get it on your phone . <p> " I do n't think I ever dared to dream that I 'd still be knocking about and making music . That would have been the ideal vision . It 's interesting that before the interview you mentioned Paul Weller and Primal Scream are doing a pro-Palestine gig . In one way , it 's beautiful to see that someone like Bobby Gillespie has stayed true to his principles , but in another it 's sad that it would still be necessary to have to fight for that point of view . To know that 25 years ago , Palestine was probably in a more fucked state than ever , then with what 's happening , and it 's been blitzed and raised to the ground . The people have been terrorised , and they 're talking about genocide . What a mess there . " <p> Pete Doherty in conversation with NME . Credit : NME <p> " Then you mentioned Kneecap who performed as well . That probably would have piqued my curiosity to know that there was a mob of Irish rappers who wear tricolour balaclavas on stage . But 25 years ago , they were probably like toddlers or something or not born . If I 'd have known about that , then I could have nicked the whole idea . I could have done some freestyle in Gaelic . I 'd basically have only been able to say ' a thousand welcomes ' a lot . They 're good lads , though , and really talented . There have been a lot of really good acts coming out of Ireland this year . " <p> Anyone else you 've been listening to ? <p> " Junior Brother , have you heard him ? He 's doing some weird psychedelic folk incantation stuff -- but at the same time , he can obviously write a song . Lisa O'Neill on Rough Trade , she 's this folk , very poetic , very lyrical in that way that the Irish do so well . It 's almost Pagan-like . And , of course , Fontaines D.C. , obviously they 're very well known now . They 've got a few tunes . I was listening to them in the car and listening to ' Starburster ' . Somehow it had passed me by . I knew about it but had n't actually heard it . I listened to it all the way through a couple of times , and it 's just a belter of a tune . " <p> " With the label Strap Originals , there 's a lot of listening being done . Not so much always by me , but we 've got quite a dedicated team who are always looking for things . The people that we 've picked up and supported are the people we believe in . We 've got a Dutch band who are , I suppose it 's punk but I 'd call it rock'n'roll . They 're pretty cool . He seems pretty angry . <p> " PreGoblin , Alex Sebley . We released an album of his . It did n't sell many physical copies , but I 'll never know why . It 's gorgeous . Achingly beautiful , strong songs . There are two or three songs on there that I think David Bowie would have been proud to release . We 've got an Irish singer-songwriter called Thomas Urwin . Personality-wise , he has n't hit it off with other people at the label , which is a shame because he 's got some great songs . We released an EP of his called ' Born A County Antrim Boy ' , and he 's got a song called ' Belfast Is Gon na Burn ' , which is just a belter . " <p> " Again , we did n't sell many copies . When he supported The Libertines in Belfast , I was going around with the box saying , ' Get your EPs ' . They were flying , but I probably sold as many by hand as we did online . It 's a hard graft out there . It 's all about streaming , and I ca n't get my head around it because I do n't have a phone , and we 're not online . Obviously we 've got a social media department , but I 'm not part of that . <p> " So I 'm starting a fanzine . I 'm going to try and reignite an analogue people 's front : The People 's Front Of Analogia ! My fanzine 's coming out in January , and it 's called On Strap . In issue one of On Strap will be a PO Box , where any contributors who believe in the written word still can send in their reviews , cartoons , dreams , crossword puzzles . So look out for that ! I 'm going to be selling it outside the venues of The Libertines ' European shows in February . " <p> Is it difficult to run a label with that old-school mentality ? <p> " A lot of it is business stuff done by other people . I was there at the inception because I had no one else to release The Puta Madres album 2019 . The day-to-day running of it , I 'm not involved with . We 've got to a point where I ca n't just say , ' We 're going to sign this band now ' . We 've got a team , and it 's quite democratic , but I 'm very much a part of it . It 's in my soul , it 's in my blood . I 'm not the label boss , but I 'm a part-owner , and I 'm very invested in it . Maybe one out of every six bands will be one I chose to sign , but so far , each band that I 've believed in has got drunk and offered to fight the rest of the team ! " <p> " Who knows what we want to do ? It 's a dream , really . So many times over the years , I 've believed in bands and longed for them to make it and had them support us , but I was never able to take them to Rough Trade or Parlophone and said , ' You 've got to sign this band ' . Now I can . Now I can have more of an influence in giving someone a real platform , not just a stage . Some songwriters are n't fame-hungry chancers in the way that we were and just want to write and record . If they have n't got that drive without industry bods looking after them , then they 'll just disappear . <p> " As an independent label , we 're doing really well . What we want to do now is stay independent , but it would be nice if we could get a proper distribution deal so we could really help people get out there . It 's a question of whether or not it 's selling out to work with a corporation . I do n't think it is , as long as you maintain independence . Otherwise , you 're fighting a losing game . " <p> " I do n't know . We were quite feral . We managed to get up drain pipes and find some squats . Driving around London today , those places just are n't there . All those crumbling warehouses and now glass and steel towers . So I do n't know . Maybe I would n't have stayed in London and gone somewhere warmer , but since Brexit , you ca n't even do that now . If you are driven enough , you 'll just try to find a way -- but that 's not always enough . " <p> What would you say to a 16-year-old who has bought a guitar and been inspired by ' Definitely Maybe ' or ' Up The Bracket ' and is sceptical about getting into making music ? <p> " Just write , keep going , believe in yourself . Keep writing . You can have all the dreams , and dreams are great , but you 've got to get your head down and bang away at your guitar . You have to love it and believe in yourself . " <p> " It is on the cards . We will get back together and get in a room with the instruments and play through the old songs , then get on stage and do it . But it 's the ' who ' and the ' when ' that needs to be worked out . I think we 'll just keep that one on the horizon and deal with that one next year . Before then , I 've got a new collection of songs which I 'm putting out on my own label , which is tidy . " <p> Would you like to make another Babyshambles album ? <p> " I 've got no idea . I wrote a new song the other day that I think would really work as a ' Shambles song . Who knows ? It 's a long way off yet . It 's going to be next Autumn , so we 'll see . " <p> " Yes , at Gunnersbury with Lambrini Girls , Hak Baker and Supergrass . It 's a lovely place , some beautiful old oak trees . Some of the best oak trees in the London area . That alone is reason enough to get down there . " <p> Does it feel heavy and surreal to have Supergrass supporting you ? <p> " Yes . There was a time years ago , back when we were young whippersnappers , where we 'd be down Dublin Castle lying to try and impress girls , telling them that we were going on tour with Supergrass , then trying to get them back to our basement . I 'd go out to the phone box and call the landline , pretending to be Supergrass ' manager ! This is before we were even signed or had a bass player or a drummer . Then we ended up supporting them , and now they 're supporting us . <p> " I remember one time , Carl was going around pretending to be the guitarist of Radiohead at the Wag Club in Soho . I think one of them was there as well . He was chatting to these Scandinavian girls with his hair all over his face , saying , ' I 'm the guitarist in Radiohead ' , and they were like , ' Ah , I just met your bass player ! He 's over there ! ' " <p> " We came a cropper a few times . ' If you 're really in Radiohead , why are you handing out flyers for the club ? ' There was always a way around it . " <p> Is the Gunnersbury Park gig going to be the victory lap and full-stop on the ' All Quiet On The Eastern Esplanade ' campaign ? <p> " I do n't know , I think there 's more to it than that . I think there are a few festivals around in France , Spain and Australia . Hopefully , we 'll be playing with the string section and the dancers and the full shebang . " <p> Have you and Carl spoken much about the next record ? <p> " We have n't , no . There are a lot of ideas about , though . We did n't really have much time but during soundchecks for the last tour , there were a few ideas . We never really just say , ' Right , let 's meet in the studio with a blank , empty canvas ' . Maybe we should try that . I 'm a bit wary of that . For someone who 's well-known for being chaotic , I like to be well-prepared in my own way . Maybe it 's my early Cub Scout training . " <p> Personally , where would you like the next Libertines album to go ? What would you like it to sound like ? <p> " Some of those early ' 70s Stevie Wonder records . Really jazzy and jangly guitar sounds with a Wurlitzer and Motown-y drum sounds . If we had the right song , we could do something really uplifting and melodic . I think Gary would like that . " <p> Pete Doherty in conversation with NME . Credit : NME <p> Are The Libertines going to have a Christmas party ? <p> " No , but I 'm going to give them all a bell . I ca n't see it happening , really , unless we can all get down to Margate . It 's been a very busy time with different things going on with different families . When you lose a parent or someone close to you , Christmas can be a really lonely time . I 'm praying for everyone and looking forward to seeing everyone when possible ? " <p> Do you have any new year 's resolutions ? <p> " I do n't know what you really mean by that . I do make resolutions , but really just to keep on this path that I 'm on . To stay off the hard things , be there for the baby , get this solo album out and see what the world thinks of it . There 's so much chaos in the world at the moment : it 's horrible in the Ukraine and Gaza , and it could go very wrong in Syria , even though it 's great Assad has gone . We pray , do n't we , Gladys ? " <p> The Libertines tour throughout 2025 , with a headline show at London 's Gunnersbury Park on Saturday August 9 . Visit here for tickets and more information .
