<p> I 'm finally earning the sort of wage I used to dream of . I usually clear about ? 4,000 to ? 4,500 a month . Which , to be honest , I 'm proud of , as I 'm self-employed ( I have been for 18 years ) and each month I hustle five income streams to bring in that much . <p> I write articles as a freelance journalist ; I sell sweatshirts ; I sell dog poop bags ; I am a social media editor ( for Kabuto Noodles ) ; and I have an Airbnb in my home in Somerset . I do all these jobs in school hours , 9am-3.30pm , and I rarely come up for air . <p> But herein lies the rub . For all that juggling and working , ? 4,500 a month is n't enough to pay my bills and living expenses as a homeowner with three children . Before you ask , no , I do n't have kids at private school ! Thank goodness . I feel sorry for anyone who does , especially now they 'll soon be taxed 20 per cent , too . <p> It feels like I work , work , work , every single month , earning good money that lands in my account for about two minutes before I have to transfer it out again . Money flies out as quickly as it arrived , leaving me back at zero , so I have to do it all again . <p> A few months ago our mortgage went up by ? 700 when the fixed term ended . It jumped from ? 1,800 to ? 2,500 overnight . That 's a lot of extra money to find . When I say " our " I mean me and my husband , Tom , who has been self-employed as a music producer since I met him 24 years ago . <p> Tom also earns thousands of pounds a month . I 'm not sure of the exact figure as we decided a few years ago to keep our finances separate . We both have a personal account , and we put enough into the joint account to cover the mortgage , bills , food , and expenses such as kids ' clubs . We have to put ? 3,000 each into the joint account to cover these " basics " . ( Okay , maybe kids ' clubs are a luxury not a basic , but our daughter has a high energy drive , and thrives on activities -- I 'm working so hard I want to be able to afford her a dance class or a swimming lesson ) . <p> Talking about basics , a weekly family food shop can cost ? 250 , even at Lidl . That 's ? 1,000 a month ! In Waitrose , where I used to shop , I think you can only buy 10 things for ? 250 these days . <p> The strange thing is that back in 2016-18 , I remember earning good money -- maybe ? 3,500 a month -- and it just felt like it went so much further . I did Ocado shops , the mortgage was far less , and I 'm sure I did n't have to sell a kidney to pay the gas bill . <p> This week , a ? 6,000 British Gas bill landed in my inbox . It 's the culmination of me obstinately underpaying what they say I owe for the past six months , because it always sounds too much . <p> Now , I 'm regretting living in an old chapel -- I do n't have the heating on all the time , but I do like to pop it on in the morning and evening for a few hours . No wonder most churches are freezing . <p> I 'm not sure how we 'll cover that bill , but I 'm going to jump on the phone to British Gas to set up an instalment plan . I do n't feel bad about begging to pay in instalments , because in March this year it was revealed that Chris O'Shea , the boss at Centrica , which owns British Gas , earned a basic salary of ? 903,000 , with bonuses worth ? 7.3m . They 're not short of a few bob . <p> Before you start telling me in the comment section how lucky I am to be a middle class white woman with a ( leaky church ) roof over my head , I unreservedly agree : I feel guilty complaining . I 'm fully aware I am privileged , especially when I see videos of grief stricken women in Gaza raising children in makeshift camps , with a limited food supply and the threat of bombs . I ca n't even fathom how terrible that must be . I 'm extremely fortunate . Nobody is suggesting that struggling middle class families are on the poverty line . <p> Although I have to ask -- when and why did it all become such a slog for people who have jobs and a decent salary ? Living in the UK at the moment feels crunchy for the middle classes . People like me who are just heads down working , who would n't dream of claiming benefits . I 'm just wondering why is it all so hard ? Where is the end in sight ? Is it when I finally pay off the 25-year mortgage ? <p> In Somerset , my council tax is ? 280 a month , which stings , as the Government spent ? 54bn on the defence budget in 2023-2024 , while shutting down local services . I 'd much prefer they opened a youth club , kept A&amp;Es accessible 24/7 and fixed the potholes . Looking at these stark contrasts , it starts to feel like someone , somewhere , is taking the proverbial piss . In fact , not someone , but lots of people who are higher up the food chain than your average working person . <h> Read Next <p> With money not going as far , it feels like the pressure to spend , especially as a parent , is absolutely everywhere . The small costs that seem to rack up : from my kids wanting a can of Coke or packet of crisps if we go to the petrol station , to my cats needing food relentlessly . <p> I grew up in Guildford , a town of commerce if ever there was one . I think I spent half my youth in Guildford Town Centre , and I wonder how families cope with all those shops nearby ? I live in a relative backwater now , with only a few independent shops near my home , but still it feels dangerous to leave the house in case money gets spent unnecessarily . Social media does n't help of course ; my daughter loves to YouTube videos of teenagers doing makeup . <p> My boys , meanwhile , often want to spend money on V-Bucks , a virtual currency for " skins " ( outfits ) for their characters in Fortnite . Often I say no , but sometimes I say yes , and wonder why hard earned cash ( ? 6.99 usually ) is going on a video game character 's outfit ! <p> I often talk to my children about money . As well as explaining to them that we ca n't buy everything , I encourage them to earn money , too . My eldest , Rafferty , ( 13 ) sells popcorn he 's made to friends ; Fox ( 11 ) held an art show to sell his drawings ; Liberty ( seven ) runs a sweet stall and sold a Barbie doll on eBay . <p> I 'm not frivolous when it comes to spending . There is no room to be . I bought enough clothes in my 20s and 30s not to need any new ones . In 2024 , I can count on one hand the items I bought : three pieces of vintage knitwear from Swan Vintage in Bruton ( around ? 40 each ) , and a pair of jeans from Free People ( ? 126 ) . I have enough furniture and homewares . In fact , I 'm often selling items from around the house just to make some extra cash . <p> The question is , when will it feel like my earnings are enough ? Why does it feel like many families are so overstretched ? When will the good times roll again ?
