<p> This is how my dear friend , English professor Abeer Barakat , described the tragic loss of her seven-year-old niece , Dania , and four-year-old nephew , Yahya . <p> Abeer , who taught at what was once the University College of Applied Sciences in Gaza , struggled to find words to convey the gravity of Israel 's " heinous crime " , which killed her youngest brother , Tareq , along with his wife and their two small children . <p> The family was burned alive in a tent in Gaza 's al-Zawayda village after Israel shelled the area early last month . A missile hit their tent directly , leaving no chance of survival . <p> The haunting scene of Tareq 's 69-year-old aunt , Naimiya , arriving at the ambulance to identify Tareq 's charred body should forever weigh on the world 's conscience . <h> New MEE newsletter : Jerusalem Dispatch <h> Sign up to get the latest insights and analysis on Israel-Palestine , alongside Turkey Unpacked and other MEE newsletters <p> In a trembling voice , she confirmed to medics her nephew 's identity , whispering through her shock : " They targeted him , along with his two little children and his wife , burning him alive . " <p> She screamed and struck her face in anguish , adding : " Not only they killed them , but burned them , burned them , burned them . " <p> The medics tried to calm her as she chased after them , desperate for one last look at her loved ones . But with fresh horrors waiting in the hospital corridors , the medics urged her to stay back , to hold on , to remain strong . She was left with only devastation . <h> Unimaginable loss <p> Everyone in Gaza knows Naimiya , a former Unrwa teacher , an icon , and a once-commanding presence . A legend in Gaza , she spent decades shaping generations of athletes , her own athletic figure serving as a symbol of strength and resilience . <p> She was the heart behind sports celebrations and events , festivals and matches that once brought pride to Gaza . She was known for her fierce dedication , elegance and impeccable style . <p> Now , a year into this genocide , that elegance is gone , stolen by unimaginable loss . Israel 's war has robbed her of everything : the home she built through a lifetime of hard work , her sense of safety , her medals , her precious photos and mementos of achievements - even the beautiful clothes she once wore with pride . <p> Today , she stands in the stark hospital hallway , barefoot , wearing the clothes of displacement , and confronts the unimaginable : examining the lifeless bodies of her beloved family members . <p> Palestinian lives are not merely counted in statistics , but in shattered dreams , broken families , and resilience strained to the limit <p> The sole survivor of the massacre was 13-year-old Ziad , who , by chance , decided to spend that night with his great-aunt . Ziad is now an orphan , having lost his mother , father and two siblings . He joins the ranks of an estimated 20,000 children who have lost one or both parents in Israel 's attacks - a loss for which they can never be compensated . <p> Meanwhile , the horrors of shelling and burning people alive are becoming the norm , rather than the exception , in every corner of the Gaza Strip . <p> In the heart of al-Mawasi , a so-called humanitarian safe zone in Khan Younis , the brutal targeting of families continues unabated . The designation of this area as a " safe zone " is not only misleading , but a tragic irony , as it has become a graveyard for countless civilians . <p> This is all part of Israel 's broader policy of annihilation ; a systematic genocide . Neighbours , who live less than a kilometre from my family 's home , recently lost eight family members in an Israeli strike . Two days later , a helicopter shelled tents in al-Mawasi , severely injuring 12 people , including women and children . Hours later , another tent in the area was targeted and burned , killing two people , including a child . <h> Beyond recognition <p> In mid-November , an Israeli drone strike targeted a small tent cafe in al-Mawasi that had become a lifeline for those seeking connections with loved ones in Gaza and beyond . People would gather there to charge their phones , access the internet , and download lessons , in a desperate attempt to maintain some semblance of normalcy amid the genocide . <p> Ten people were killed instantly in the drone attack , and many others were badly wounded , some burned and disfigured beyond recognition . The wounded were rushed to the semi-functional Nasser Hospital , with many requiring surgeries for their life-threatening injuries . <p> This cafe was more than a gathering spot ; it was essential for my family , with my nieces and nephews frequently charging their phones there and using the internet , in an attempt to continue their disrupted studies . <p> Just days before the strike , my brother sent a photo of himself at the cafe watching over the children . Learning that it had been shelled was a horrifying blow - although , by some miracle , my relatives survived , having left just hours before the attack . <p> This marked their second near-miss : on 26 October 2023 , they had left their phones to be charged at my cousin 's shop , which had a free solar-powered charging station for neighbours . Moments after they left to fetch water , the shop was bombed by Israeli jets , killing everyone inside . <p> In Gaza , the targeting of civilians is not an aberration ; it has been the reality , in " safe zones " and elsewhere , both before and since 7 October 2023 . " Safety " is an illusion in Gaza - a word devoid of meaning in a place where air strikes follow families even into the zones designated as shelters . <p> Families are killed everywhere they might seek refuge : homes , hospitals , UN-designated schools , tents . In these so-called safe zones , more than 60 members of my extended family have been killed , with four generations wiped out on 26 October 2023 . Thirty-five members of my sister-in-law 's family perished in Gaza 's southern safe zone that same month . <h> Global indifference <p> I have reported these horrors to the world , but the lived testimonies of Palestinians are often questioned or dismissed . Our suffering and anguish is met with indifference . Amid global silence and doubt , we are left to wonder whether our words , cries and losses matter to anyone beyond Gaza 's besieged borders . <p> More than 430 days into Israel 's genocide , two million Palestinians remain besieged in a concentration camp , held hostage by a right-wing fascist regime intent on extermination under the guise of self-defence - an assertion unsupported by international law . For decades , Palestinians have raised their voices , sharing the realities of their suffering , occupation and ethnic cleansing . But the world seems indifferent to these cries . <p> This past October , my friend Abeer captured this frustration on her Facebook page , writing : " After one year and still counting , we lost our voices . We are tired of telling the world what is happening because actions have been repeated over and over again ... We are the victims of your silence . May Allah not forgive all of you . " <p> The West 's support for Israel 's genocide is destroying the world as we know it <p> This is not just the story of Gaza , but the unending ordeal of a people forced to endure a century of suffering and settler-colonial violence that no human being should ever face . <p> Palestinian lives are not merely counted in statistics , but in shattered dreams , broken families , and resilience strained to the limit . <p> The families burned to death are not faceless numbers . The world 's silence in the face of such horrors amounts to complicity ; we need decisive global action now to end the genocide . <p> When my daughter , Ghaida , learnt of the miracle that her cousins had escaped death , she wrote the following : <p> I wonder what your faces look like now - The eyes that once held the laughter of our times and memories together , What have they witnessed and what do they hold now ? I wonder what your memories carry , How they fold in the shadows of these endless and brutal days and nights , Images of a world crumbling around you , not knowing what else can even be in sight.I wonder what you 've eaten , if anything at all , What strange tastes you 've swallowed with fear not knowing if it will be your last , And how you 've managed to sleep beneath a sky that never rests but like a memory card is recording all that 's passed.I wonder when I 'll see you next , If I 'll find you as I last left you not long ago , Or as fragments of a time I can not understand , but have watched you all undergo.But still I hold onto you all , every day , every night and in every wondering breath , I can not believe that love like this could outlast even death.Yet I wonder , as I count the names I once knew , How many of you are still here , and how many are gone - Gone with the wind , to Allah they return like whispers in the blast , Through the rubble and ash , it 's the one thing that lasts , as thread that binds us , even when all else has passed . <p> The views expressed in this article belong to the author and do not necessarily reflect the editorial policy of Middle East Eye . <p> Dr Ghada Ageel is a visiting professor at the University of Alberta Political Science Department ( Edmonton , Canada ) , an independent scholar , and active in the **25;1212;TOOLONG . <p> Middle East Eye delivers independent and unrivalled coverage and analysis of the Middle East , North Africa and beyond . To learn more about republishing this content and the associated fees , please fill out this form . More about MEE can be found here .
