<p> Ireland and Israel are now locked in a zero-sum war of reputation destruction . On Sunday , Israel announced it was closing its Dublin embassy because of the " extreme anti-Israel policies of the Irish government " . It then doubled down , branding the Taoiseach , Simon Harris , an anti-Semite . An irate Harris shot back that Israel was merely attempting to distract from its " killing " of children . <p> These accusations are so grave it 's difficult to see how either side can walk them back . Who , after all , would make such claims frivolously ? <p> Let 's consider for a moment what led both countries to go nuclear . Since the start of the war in Gaza , the Irish government has been one of Israel 's most strident critics . It backed South Africa 's genocide case against Israel in the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) , claiming there was sufficient evidence to answer the charge . But just last week , it went further , calling to " broaden " the definition of genocide to vaguely include civilian harm , effectively turning Israel into a perpetrator of a crime yet to exist . <p> For Jerusalem , this attempt to shift legal goalposts , redefining established terms to engineer guilt , was the final straw . After years of diplomatic snubs , boycotts , and genocide accusations -- not to mention Ireland 's recognition of a Palestinian state soon after October 7 -- Israel decided to cut its losses . " We will now channel and transfer resources to a place that is interested in cooperating with us , " its ambassador explained . <p> Ireland is for international law when it suits . That 's why it now seeks to rewrite the Genocide Convention -- an international cornerstone ratified by 153 states , including Ireland -- to retroactively lower the bar for convicting Israel . This more closely resembles authoritarian justice , where the accused is condemned first and the crime tailored to fit . As Stalin 's secret police chief Lavrentiy Beria put it : " Show me the man , and I 'll show you the crime . " <p> Ireland may claim to be " pro-peace " , but when Irish peacekeepers stationed in southern Lebanon turned a blind eye to Hezbollah amassing rockets on Israel 's border -- in blatant violation of international law -- Dublin remained silent . Yet it was quick to cry foul when Israel acted to address the violation , warning Unifil 's Potemkin peacekeepers -- 380 of whom are Irish -- to clear out . Had the peacekeepers done their job , Hezbollah 's emboldening of Hamas , and this war , might have been avoided . <p> And what of Ireland 's commitment to human rights ? It has long cosied up to the world 's worst abusers . In 2019 , Saudi Arabia supported Ireland 's bid for a UN Security Council seat precisely because Dublin " does n't lecture " them on human rights . When the Chinese premier visited Ireland in January , then-Taoiseach Leo Varadkar assured him that Taiwan -- a democratic , self-governing state -- was part of China , whose Uyghur concentration camps hold one million souls . <p> And most striking of all : earlier this year , Ireland 's president , Michael D Higgins , sent warm congratulations to Iran 's incoming president -- leader of a regime that hangs political prisoners from cranes and has openly genocidal intentions towards Israel . There 's no public record that such a letter was sent to Israel 's president upon his inauguration in 2021 . <p> The Taoiseach declared that Israel was not " entitled to have an alternative set of facts . " But this cuts both ways . The facts reveal that Ireland 's government is determined to accuse the Jewish state of genocide -- a term born from the Holocaust -- at any cost . Ireland abandons its principles when the violators are n't Jews but weaponises them when they supposedly are . If this does n't strike Mr Harris as antisemitic , perhaps he ought to broaden his definition of that , too .
