<h> UAE leads global humanitarian efforts in 2024 <p> The United Arab Emirates has reiterated its unwavering commitment to fostering international solidarity and humanitarian cooperation through various programmes and initiatives worldwide . <p> In 2024 , the UAE played a pivotal role in humanitarian efforts worldwide , marked by numerous initiatives . President His Highness Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan launched the Zayed Humanitarian Legacy Initiative , with AED20 billion allocated for humanitarian works in the world 's most vulnerable communities . <p> His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum , Vice President , Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai , launched the Mothers ' Endowment campaign , honouring mothers by establishing an AED1 billion endowment fund that aims to support the education and training of millions of individuals around the world . <p> Under the UAE 's strategic partnership with the G20 , H.H. Sheikh Khaled bin Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan , Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi , announced a US$100 million contribution to the Global Alliance against Hunger and Poverty through the UAE Aid Agency . <p> Reaching the Last Mile Initiative , a portfolio of global health programmes driven by the philanthropy of President His Highness Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan , has announced an AED55 million commitment to the Global Institute for Disease Elimination ( GLIDE ) . <p> Through Operation Chivalrous Knight 3 , the UAE has launched an urgent vaccination campaign in the Gaza Strip , aimed at protecting over 640,000 children from the threat of polio . <p> Additionally , the UAE delivered humanitarian , medical , and water infrastructure aid to Gaza , benefiting over one million people in the region . <p> In Lebanon , President His Highness Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed directed a US$100 million emergency relief package and initiated the " UAE Stands with Lebanon " campaign . The UAE also extended US$30 million to displaced Lebanese citizens in Syria . <p> In April , the UAE pledged US$100 million to support humanitarian efforts in Sudan and its neighbouring countries . In Chad , new initiatives were launched , and a US$10.25 million contribution to the United Nations aimed at supporting Sudanese refugee women affected by the ongoing crisis in the country . <p> The UAE continued its humanitarian presence globally in terms of relief and assistance to those affected by natural disasters that occurred in many countries around the world . In this context , the UAE extended a helping hand to many countries around the world , such as Burkina Faso , Brazil , the Philippines , Ethiopia , Kenya , the Democratic Republic of the Congo , Mauritania , Nigeria , Nepal , South Africa , Ivory Coast , and Cameroon . <p> The UAE has committed US$50 million to the second phase of the Lives and Livelihoods Fund 2.0 ( LLF 2.0 ) , a major multi-donor development initiative that supports the Islamic Development Bank ( IsDB ) member countries in building sustainable pathways to lift millions out of poverty . <p> Disclaimer : The content of this article is syndicated or provided to this website from an external third party provider . We are not responsible for , and do not control , such external websites , entities , applications or media publishers . The body of the text is provided on an " as is " and " as available " basis and has not been edited in any way . Neither we nor our affiliates guarantee the accuracy of or endorse the views or opinions expressed in this article . Read our full disclaimer policy here .
