<p> Every year from October to December Oscar contenders try to crack the US film market , hoping to secure a coveted Academy Award nomination . <p> Millions of dollars are spent on PR campaigns as publicists scurry about , attempting to generate positive press coverage and court influential Oscar voters . Meanwhile across Los Angeles and New York , films big and small flood cinemas before the end of the year to secure the minimum number of screenings to qualify for awards eligibility . <p> Gibney aspired to secure US theatrical distribution deals but they never materialised : instead the film screened for one week at the Laemmle Monica Film Center in southern California , where this writer watched it , and the IFC Center in New York . <h> New MEE newsletter : Jerusalem Dispatch <h> Sign up to get the latest insights and analysis on Israel-Palestine , alongside Turkey Unpacked and other MEE newsletters <h> Netanyahu under pressure <p> After only a few minutes , it becomes apparent why The Bibi Files has caused a stir . <p> Netanyahu creeps onto the screen , sporting his signature sinister smirk - but something is distinctly different about his facial expressions and body language . There is a visible discomfort bogging him down . His demeanour reeks of restlessness . His familiar guise of confidence fails to conceal a palpable weakness ; his quiet dread at a looming danger that constantly threatens to blow his cover . <p> This is Netanyahu like you 've never seen him before - and it 's a sight to behold . <p> The crux of the film is the never-seen-before police interrogation footage of Netanyahu , his wife , Sara and their eldest son , the ultra right-wing Yair . Other figures who are shown being questioned include Hollywood billionaire producer Arnon Milchan ; Israeli-American billionaire Miriam Adelson ; Israeli telecom mogul Shaul Elovitch ; and Nir Hefetz , a former spokesman for Netanyahu . <p> Thousands of hours of these taped interrogations , recorded between 2016 and 2018 , were leaked to Gibney during spring 2023 . Shortly afterwards , he approached Bloom and suggested that the footage form the basis of a full-length feature . <p> " I knew I was never going to get an honest , sit-down interview with Benjamin Netanyahu , " Bloom told Middle East Eye . " This was as close to getting an honest interview with him as I could 've gotten under these circumstances . " <p> Little of what The Bibi Files offers is new to anyone who has been closely following the Netanyahu corruption case . Rather , its brilliance comes in how Bloom astutely and perceptively frames the questioning , turning the sporadic footage into an incendiary narrative about unchecked power , grave moral corruption , and forbidding sociopathy . <p> If it was fiction thenThe Bibi Files would have been deemed far-fetched : no man can be this devious , this contemptible , this malicious . To watch it is to confront the sheer wickedness of this world in unflinching detail . <p> The opening scenes include Israel 's war on Gaza , which the film-makers imply has come about through Netanyahu 's self-interest . From there it moves to the expensive gifts given by the likes of Milchan and Adelson , including champagne and cigars , all so they can remain close to the prime minister 's circle . <p> Bloom then gradually reveals how the staggering web of corruption in which Netanyahu and his family have allegedly been embroiled runs far wider than the mere acquisition of presents . <p> The investigations show that Netanyahu 's wife -- who has a clear drinking problem according to both Milchan 's former personal assistant , Hadas Klein , and her ex-housekeeper -- solicited gifts totalling one million shekels ( around $280,000 ) . " Were the gifts volunteered or demanded ? " Klein is asked by police . " They were demanded , " she asserts . <p> More critical was the case of Shaul Elovitch , the telecom mogul who Netanyhau rescued from bankruptcy in exchange for the prime minister 's family clandestinely taking control of Walla ! Elovitch 's widely popular media outlet . <p> Reporters were fired and the editorial line changed to present favourable coverage of the prime minister and Yair , who was being groomed to succeed him according to Uzi Beller , Netanyahu 's former long-term friend <p> Bloom was particularly surprised by the disrespect and rudeness of the Netanyahu family . At one point in The Bibi Files , Sara Netanyahu tells the police : " Your evidence is utter and complete bullshit " . Throughout the film , the prime minister asserts repeatedly that " he did n't remember " . <p> Bloom observes : " I 've always been told that he has this superpower of a memory . He says he does n't remember in situations that any human being would remember . " <p> Then there is how Netanyahu recorded a conversation with Arnon ' Noni ' Mozes , the editor of an Israeli newspaper , then denied it . The leaked footage includes the police then playing the recording to the prime minister , which came from a cell phone in his pocket but which he said he could not recall making . <p> Bloom says : " I do n't know how you can forget that you were secretly recording somebody when the cell phone was in your pocket . I was surprised at how often he lied . " <p> Does she think that Netanyahui was conscious of his lying ? Or did he simply believe that the end justified the means and that his actions were for the greater good of Israel ? <p> " I think that the best liars always believe in their own lies . I think that Netanyahu genuinely thinks that he 's the smartest , most capable person in the whole of Israel . So many people who have worked with him told me that -- his former chief of staff , the former heads of the Shin Bet , among others . The word that often came up is ' dwarfs . ' He thinks he 's a genius and everyone else are dwarfs . " <h> Israel 's far right and the US <p> Netanyahu 's lawyer advised him to resign due to the accusations , reports the documentary , but according to sources , the prime minister was anxious that if he did so then more of his activities would be exposed . <p> The rest is history : to remain in power Netanyahu forged a new alliance with the far right , leading to the largest annexation of Palestinian lands in recent history , widespread protests in Israel against his planned judicial reforms and the ongoing ethnic cleansing of Gaza . <p> Beller paints an unflattering portrait of the prime minister , who he says was very macho but had few close friends . His childhood was spent in the shadow of his older , more charismatic brother , military officer Yonatan , known as Yoni , whose early death during the 1976 Entebbe hostage rescue paved the way for Benjamin to enter politics . <p> In 1993 , after he acknowledged his involvement in a sex scandal , Netanyahu reshaped his relationship with his wife who would prove to be instrumental in the formation of her husband 's policies . <p> But The Bibi Files is not just an expertly made investigation of Israel 's most notorious head of state : it 's a Macbeth-like fable of a man punch-drunk on blind ambition ; a penetrating study of someone corrupted and empowered by his violent addiction to power . <p> " When you start to break the rules and value yourself more than the civic body , it leads you to make terrible decisions , " says Bloom . " Some are small , like champagne and cigars , and some are huge , but they 're all related . Netanyahu has a lot of skeletons in his closet , and I think he 's kind of frightened . He 's a wounded animal , and people who have something to fear behave in a remarkably aggressive way . " <p> The film repeatedly touches upon Netanyahu 's relationship with the US , where he spent much of his childhood , also as a student at MIT in Boston and the Israeli representative at the UN . Time and time again , Netanyahu parades for his domestic electorate his strong bond with the US , which comes over as Israel 's chief enabler . <p> Scenes from Netanyahu 's intentionally provocative speech at the US Congress in 2024 -- which Nimrod Novik , a former senior adviser to late Israeli president Shimon Peres , describes as " the best-articulated bunch of empty slogans " -- is a sobering reminder of the impunity with which Washington has stubbornly safeguarded the Israeli leader . <p> " Sending weapons to Israel and providing him with cover are certainly more consequential than Bibi putting on a call to Kerry , " Bloom says . <p> But while the US relationship with Israel is touched on in The Bibi Files , it never becomes the focus of the documentary . Bloom hopes that one day someone will make a film about the two states - or may do it herself . <p> " Somebody in the film says that ' the US does n't know how to call Netanyahu out , ' and it 's true . So far , the Biden administration has done nothing to penalise Bibi for his lies . They might criticise him privately behind closed doors , but there are no consequences . " <h> 7 October and the war on Gaza <p> Gili Schwartz , a survivor of the attack on Kibbutz B'eri , blames Netanyahu for the double agony of witnessing her neighbours being killed . " Now I have to endure seeing my neighbours in Gaza getting killed . " <p> Schwartz says she does n't want to see Netanyahu 's face , and that the families of the hostages are anxious to speak out against him in case " he might not help them " if they do . <p> Many of the experts Bloom interviews say that Netanyahu is responsible for the continuous existence of Hamas , whose threat to Israel he can argue justifies his retention of power . But it is clear that Qatar 's funding of Hamas happened under Netanyahu 's watch ; and that he could have stopped the flow of money to Hamas but never did ( or else did not want to ) . <p> " It was a spectacularly bad decision on his part . Israel controls all the money going into both the West Bank and Gaza , " says Bloom . " Under Netanyahu 's watch , the money to Hamas escalated and escalated and escalated and escalated , because it suited him . <p> Alexis Bloom and Alex Gibney at the Toronto International Film Festival in September ; and a poster for The Bibi Files ( AFP ) <p> " It 's a ' divide and conquer ' mentality . When Hamas is strong , he could say : ' Why should I negotiate ? They 're extremist , they 're flourishing , and they do n't get along with Palestinian Authority . ' The survival of Hamas was important to Netanyahu . " <p> The Bibi Files has faced an arduous journey since its Toronto premiere . It was also being edited until the last minute to include recent events such as Israel 's pager attacks on Lebanon and subsequent invasion . <p> But despite Gibney 's influence and respect in the film industry , the documentary has not been afforded the same profile as other awards contenders . <p> " The streamers today are not that interested in political content , unless it 's super clear-cut like the Navalny film which was a success because the pro-Russia lobby in America is not very vocal or big , " says Bloom . " I was at the News and Documentary Emmy Awards this year . This Ukrainian film won a bunch of awards , but it did n't have distribution . The Palestinian-Israeli documentary No Other Land also does n't have distribution . It understandable that streamers would baulk away from a film very critical of a sitting Israeli leader . " <p> She also says that it was very hard to fund the film as financiers were extremely nervous . " There is no institutional appetite for grappling with the really important questions of our day , and I expect things to get worse under Trump . " <p> The worry for her is that people will self-censor weather than waiting to be shut down by the authorities . " There 's something more insidious in the US . It 's about money , and not wanting to make waves . I find it incredibly disheartening and sad , but we 'll have to continue spread things in a very grass roots way . " <p> But while previous Israeli leaders have been jailed , including President Moshe Katsav in 2011 and Ehud Olmert in 2015 , Bloom does n't envision Netanyahu going to prison . <p> " I see him weaselling out of it in some way , even though there seems to be ample evidence against him . It 's gone on for so long and I think he 'll find a way to evade justice . The longer the trial goes on , the more he will be able to side shuffle out of responsibility . " <p> Rather Bloom believes Netanyahu will strike a plea deal or else change the legal system . " He will eviscerate the judicial system . He will push out the attorney general , who is not sympathetic to him , and he 'll find a way to restructure the judiciary in a way that benefits him . " <h> Are Trump and Netanyahu the same ? <p> Ample comparisons have been drawn between Donald Trump , who returns to the White House in January , and Netanyahu : two privileged men who have managed to bamboozle millions of people with their self-serving agendas . But Bloom believes the situation in Israel differs from that in the US . <p> " Netanyahu is able to pull the wool over the people 's eyes because he managed to make them think that he 's good for their security , and that 's what I tried to show in the film , " she says . " People did vote for him because they believed he would protect them , which I think it 's crazy because Israel has never been a more dangerous place to be Jewish . <p> " He constantly says , ' We 're fighting a war on seven fronts . ' Well , how about NOT fight a war on seven fronts ? " <p> " After 7 October , Netanyahu was deeply unpopular because people were like , ' holy shit ! This happened on his watch . ' And he 's not Mr Security . He 's so obsessed with the chess board : Iran , Syria etc . <p> " But he forgot about the Palestinians on his doorstep , who are a much more difficult problem to reckon with : a problem that is much more vexing and intractable . He loves to operate on this Churchillian level , setting his sight on the great foe that is Iran . <p> " 7 October showed him that in fact need to , but he does n't have an answer to that . And unless he engages with the very complicated , emotionally fraught , ongoing issues that Palestinians presents Israel with , Israel will never be a democratic state and will never be accepted on a world stage . " <p> At time of publication , The Bibi Files can be streamed in the US , UK , Australia and Spain among others . <p> Middle East Eye delivers independent and unrivalled coverage and analysis of the Middle East , North Africa and beyond . To learn more about republishing this content and the associated fees , please fill out this form . More about MEE can be found here .
