<h> Palestinian pseudo-3D stealth game Dreams on a Pillow looks set to hit ? 150K crowdfund target early <p> A video game charting the true story of the Nakba , the ethnic cleansing of Palestinian Arabs in 1948 , has secured three-quarters of its crowdfunding goal with over three weeks still to go . <p> Dreams on a Pillow - a " pseudo-3D stealth adventure game about a land full of people being made into a people without land " - tracks Omm , a young mother from an olive farmers ' family in al-Tantura . With Omm , you 'll traverse historical events and stories of the Nakba as she attempts an escape towards Lebanon in the North . <p> The crowdfunding page explains that Palestinian game developer Rasheed Abueideh is " asking for your support and blessing as he sets out on his largest game project so far , which has been a dream of his for almost a decade " . To date , it has realised ? 104.5K of the ? 155,823 Abueideh seeks to raise and is set to close on 13th January . <p> " Almost exactly a decade ago , as an Israeli invasion tore through Gaza , Rasheed Abueideh recognised the power of games : they let players step into someone else 's reality , " the description explains . <p> " Not long after Rasheed began development of Liyla &amp; The Shadows of War , a game that brought to life the harsh realities of living under invasion , apartheid , &amp; occupation . The development was fraught with obstacles and rejections : Apple declared the game ' too political ' , and temporarily banned the game - and while publishing funding in the games industry were aggressively funding games , a Palestinian game was deemed ' too controversial ' . Rasheed persevered , and Liyla became a global phenomenon . " <p> Vikki Blake : When her friends were falling in love with soap stars , Vikki was falling in love with video games . She 's a survival horror survivalist with a penchant for Yorkshire Tea , men dressed up as doctors and sweary words . She struggles to juggle a fair-to-middling Destiny/Halo addiction and her kill/death ratio is terrible .
