<p> Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Ayman Safadi and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov , during a phone call on Wednesday , discussed developments in Syria and efforts to end the Israeli aggression on Gaza . <p> During the call , Safadi underlined the need to stop the aggression on Gaza and end the resulting humanitarian disaster as essential steps toward de-escalating tensions in the region , according to a ministry statement . <p> He reiterated Jordan 's solidarity with the Syrian people in their quest to rebuild their country and safeguard its unity , " free from any violations of its sovereignty or land , free of terrorism , and respectful of the Syrian people 's will and choices to establish a new regime that represents all Syrians and safeguards their rights . " <p> Safadi also warned of the consequences of continued Israeli attacks on Syrian land and sovereignty , describing them as a " blatant aggression , a violation of international law , and a dangerous escalation . " <p> Both Safadi and Lavrov reiterated their commitment to further advancing relations between Amman and Moscow . <p> Also on Wednesday , Safadi received a phone call from European Commissioner for the Mediterranean Dubravka ? uica to discuss strengthening cooperation and addressing key regional developments . <p> Safadi and ? uica underlined the " deep-rooted " partnership between Jordan and the European Union and expressed their shared commitment to expanding cooperation in various fields . <p> Safadi congratulated ? uica on her recent appointment and reiterated Jordan 's appreciation for the EU 's continued support . <p> Both officials underlined the need to accelerate the finalisation of the Strategic Partnership Agreement , which aims to strengthen relations between the two sides . They also discussed advancing cooperation within the Union for the Mediterranean , which is co-chaired by Jordan and the EU . <p> The discussion touched on critical regional issues , including the aggression against Gaza , with Safadi and ? uica stressing the importance of securing a lasting ceasefire to end the violence and ensure the delivery of humanitarian aid to those in need . <p> They also discussed the situation in Syria , underlining the need for stability and security in the country . Both reiterated their support for a Syrian-led political process that safeguards the unity and sovereignty of Syria and the rights of all its citizens . <p> Safadi and ? uica agreed to maintain an ongoing dialogue and to work towards strengthening Jordan-EU relations . <p> Disclaimer : The content of this article is syndicated or provided to this website from an external third party provider . We are not responsible for , and do not control , such external websites , entities , applications or media publishers . The body of the text is provided on an " as is " and " as available " basis and has not been edited in any way . Neither we nor our affiliates guarantee the accuracy of or endorse the views or opinions expressed in this article . Read our full disclaimer policy here .
