<p> Lord Mandelson is often described as one of the key architects of New Labour . He was the Labour MP for Hartlepool from 1992 to 2004 , during which time he served as secretary of state for Northern Ireland . <p> Lord Mandelson , right , with John Prescott , centre , and Neil Kinnock at London 's Royal Festival Hall after Labour 's election victory in 1997 ( Rebecca Naden/PA ) <p> In 1998 , Sir Tony fired the man who later served as business secretary for failing to disclose a home loan from a senior minister . <p> Soon after his return , he was forced to quit once more due to a passport scandal involving the billionaire businessmen , the Hinduja brothers . When he was elected to the Hartlepool seat in 2001 , he famously declared that he was a " fighter not a quitter " . <p> When it comes to dealing with the Trump administration , Lord Mandelson has suggested that Britain has to " navigate our way through this and have , I 'm afraid , the best of both worlds " . <p> " We have got to find a way to have our cake and eat it , " he said . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> In November , he also told BBC One 's Sunday With Laura Kuenssberg that he was " more in favour of a new relationship rather than a special one " with the US . Pushed further on whether he would be interested in the Washington role , the former government minister said : " I would be very interested indeed in giving advice about trade to whoever is appointed . " <p> Weeks before Labour entered No 10 this summer , he resigned from the board of his lobbying firm , Global Counsel . <p> At the time his resignation prompted speculation he would be free for a possible government role . <p> Earlier this year he ruled out a return to frontline politics after the reported part-sale of Global Counsel to Barack Obama 's former polling guru , Jim Messina . <p> At the time Lord Mandelson , once dubbed the " Dark Lord " for his role as a New Labour spin doctor , told The Telegraph : " I will continue to always be a cheerleader and champion of a Labour government but I do not intend to be a member of it . " <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> In March he raised eyebrows when he told Sir Keir he could stand to " shed a few pounds , and that would be an improvement " . <p> The move appeared to be a bid at even-handedness after he hit out at the then-prime minister Rishi Sunak 's notorious slim-fit suits and skinny ties , saying they " diminish him rather than expand him " on his podcast How To Win An Election . <p> Sir Keir Starmer has rejected the suggestion that the UK would have to choose between a closer trade deal with the EU and a free trade agreement with the US . The Prime Minister told the Liaison Committee " we can pursue both " and that he is ensuring a " good relationship " with incoming president Trump . . <p> Elon Musk 's role in wrecking a bipartisan Congress deal to avert a US government shutdown has underlined his extraordinary influence over the Republican Party and the incoming administration of Donald Trump . " Democrats and Republicans spent months negotiating a bipartisan agreement to fund our government , " Senator Bernie Sanders said . <p> Hospices in England will receive an extra ? 100m to improve buildings , equipment and accommodation , the government has said . A further ? 26m will be given to children 's hospices for the 2025/26 year , the government said . There are about 170 hospices in England that provide end of life care for adults , and about 40 for children and young people , while some hospices provide care to both . <p> Whichever judge had been asked to decide the fate of the woman who assaulted Nigel Farage , amid repeated claims that Britain suffers from a " two tier " justice system , might have considered themselves on a sticky wicket . <p> The International Brotherhood of Teamsters union announced Amazon workers would strike starting Thursday in five confirmed states ahead of the Christmas holiday , citing the company 's absence from the bargaining negotiations as a reason . " If your package is delayed during the holidays , you can blame Amazon 's insatiable greed . We gave Amazon a clear deadline to come ... <p> Israel on Thursday faced accusations of " acts of genocide " and exhibiting " signs of ethnic cleansing " in its military offensive in Gaza , charges Israeli authorities dismissed as " lies " . In a separate report on Thursday , Doctors Without Borders ( MSF ) accused Israel of causing widespread devastation in Gaza and noted " signs of ethnic cleansing " in the north of the Palestinian territory . <p> A brazen monkey broke into a calculus class at Kaohsiung National Sun Yat-Sen University in Kaohsiung on December 16 , 2024 . The hungry animal decided that a young student would make an easy target for a food heist.
