<h> Get the latest Daily Record breaking news on WhatsApp <p> Nigel Farage 's Reform party organiser in Scotland has been sacked after a Record probe into his family 's links to a Loyalist terror plot . <p> Craig Campbell was removed as Scottish organiser of the right-wing party after we revealed his late dad was a UVF commander who was jailed following the bombing of Catholic pubs in Glasgow . His cousin Jason Campbell was also caged after he murdered Celtic fan Mark Scott by cutting his throat in an evil attack that shocked the country . <p> Reform rising star Campbell , 52 , also had images on his own Facebook which compared the SNP to the Nazis . After his family links were revealed , a Reform UK Scotland spokesman said : " Craig Campbell is no longer a Reform UK Scotland organiser . Reform UK Scotland will not tolerate discrimination of anyone in any form . " <p> Last night , there were calls for Reform to root out extremism within its ranks . Speaking before the sacking , Labour MSP Paul O'Kane said : " Scots will be deeply concerned that a man with family links to sectarian violence and murderous paramilitary gangs was at the heart of Reform UK 's electoral machine in Scotland . " <p> Reform UK leader Nigel Farage ( Image : PA ) <p> O'Kane added : " Mr Campbell must take this opportunity to publicly break with and condemn his family connection with terrorism . If Mr Campbell fails to do so , Reform UK must expel him . " Farage 's right-wing party is making huge progress in Scotland , with opinion polls showing them in line to return over 10 MSPs at the next Holyrood election . <p> Experts say Farage is eating into Labour and Tory support while Reform has also performed well in recent council by-elections . <p> William Campbell ( front ) and George Martin leave the High Court after sentencing for the Landressy Street bombing <p> It is not known if Campbell 's close family ties to Loyalist terror group the UVF were known to Farage or party bosses . His dad , William " Big Bill " Campbell , was the supreme commander of the UVF in Glasgow during the Troubles in Northern Ireland . Bill and his brother Colin were two of nine UVF members jailed in 1979 after the bombing of the Clelland Bar and Old Barns pub in Glasgow . <p> All nine were found guilty of plotting to further the aims of the paramilitary group by criminal purposes , while four of the men in Bill Campbell 's cell were found guilty of the bombings . He died in 1997 and a Loyalist plaque celebrates him in Northern Ireland , with the slogan : " In proud memory of a true soldier . Lest we forget . No5 Platoon . " <p> Jason Campbell man in navy blue suit centre found guilty of the murder of schoolboy Celtic fan Mark Scott handcuffed to two other men unknown . <p> In 1996 , Craig Campbell 's cousin Jason was handed a life sentence after he brutally murdered a boy in broad daylight after a Celtic match . He ran up behind 16-year-old Mark Scott in the Bridgeton area before hurling sectarian abuse at him and slashing his throat . <p> The attack was witnessed by other fans , women out shopping with their children and people in cars and buses . The murder led to the creation of anti-sectarianism charity Nil By Mouth . Craig Campbell , who was born in Northern Ireland , lives in Lanarkshire and until yesterday was a key player in Farage 's bid to boost Reform support in the country . <p> He has also spoken about politics on TV . Campbell commented on the war in Gaza as an audience member during a BBC Debate Night show in Motherwell . He said : " Put pressure on Egypt . Tell them to open their borders , take all the refugees and everybody that wants to leave Gaza . And let Israel do what they have got to do , which is wipe Hamas from the face of the earth . " <p> His Facebook page and the online description of Campbell as an organiser for Reform in Central Scotland were taken down yesterday . The party later confirmed it had removed him from the position . There were growing concerns yesterday , though , that Farage 's party may provide a platform for extremist figures . <p> Green MSP Maggie Chapman said : " Reform should ask itself why so many people with such extreme and repulsive views are so attracted to that party . All that it is offering is scapegoating , prejudice and bigotry . " <p> Do n't miss the latest news from around Scotland and beyond - Sign up to our daily newsletterhere . <p> Story Saved <p> You can find this story in My Bookmarks.Or by navigating to the user icon in the top right .
