<h> Sorry your limit is up for this month <p> IT may seem somewhat contradictory to admire a book and be critical at the same time . <p> This book is undoubtedly praiseworthy , simply on the basis of its aim in exposing creeping fascism in the US and for the powerful series of linocuts and drawings by Sue Coe that visualise the danger . <p> In his introduction Profesor Stephan Eisenman provides an excellent and succinct history of fascism and also provides a running commentary on Sue Coe 's art and the role of a political artist today . It is an ideal handbook for teachers and students seeking to discuss fascism . <p> I wonder , though , whether those who would really profit from such a book will actually encounter it ? This is a key problem that faces left-wing cultural workers : how can we effectively promote our ideas in the face of the mainstream , hegemonic steamroller of ruling-class culture and ideology ? <p> Artist Sue Coe is an animal rights activist and anti-fascist . She has depicted the struggles of women , children , queers , animals , refugees , and political dissidents . Her art has also exposed the horrors of factory farms , zoos , prisons , and refugee camps . <p> Her prints , drawings and paintings are found in many major art museums , and her illustrations have been published in The New York Times , The Nation and elsewhere . The New York Times itself is quoted in praise of this " Prescient ... searing social-political art . " <p> Her co-author Stephen F Eisenman is professor emeritus of art history , as well as an art critic and columnist for Counterpunch and co-founder of the environmental justice organisation , Anthropocene Alliance . <p> Their book is certainly a powerful and impactful interweaving of punchy art and precise words that together lay bare the authoritarianism , racism , xenophobia , homophobia , and misogyny that characterises much of the political landscape of the US today . And its message applies everywhere , not just to the US . <p> Designed especially to inform and activate younger readers , the book pays particular attention to the threats facing the most basic tenets of US democracy , exemplified by the attempted stealing of elections , violence on the streets , and the evasion of legal consequences by the most powerful in the land . <p> Beyond the crimes of Trump and his cohort , The Young Person 's Illustrated Guide explores the threads of fascism in US history and reveals their insidious influence on today 's foreign policy , especially in terms of support for genocide in Gaza , and the brutal treatment of asylum-seekers along the US-Mexican border . <p> Sue Coe 's powerful black and white images are reminiscent of Frans Masereel 's poltical woodcuts for his series of " wordless novels , " and draw inspiration from artists like Kathe Kollwitz and John Heartfield . <p> I feel , though , that sardined together as in this book , their individual significance and impact gets lost . <p> Eisenman , in his clarifying and lucid texts , also addresses the issue of how artists of the left can achieve political relevance . " Effective political art is hard to make , " he writes . " It requires ... historical insight as well as a finely honed craft . And even with these , there are significant pitfalls : Firstly , bathos -- the inadequacy of an artwork in the face of momentous events . <p> Second -- an issue faced by all political artists -- the use of melodrama , the exaggerated emotional effect that results on focusing on grief , pain and suffering . A similar risk is sentimentality , the overemphasis of feeling at the expense of understanding . <p> " And , third , ' preaching to the choir ' -- a central problem , in my view . How can we avoid preaching only to the converted ? And fourthly , the hazard of expiration . Political artists are by their very nature dealing with contemporary and topical issues , which by their very nature become rapidly outdated . " <p> All vital problems faced by political artists . <p> Nevertheless , this is a useful aid in explaining fascism to a younger generation .
