<p> A group of 20 US members of Congress signed a letter urging the Biden administration to withhold offensive weaponry to Israel 's military over its failure to address the humanitarian situation in Gaza as its military continues its 14-month war in the enclave . <p> The effort from the lawmakers , led by Congressman Greg Casar , is in response to a letter sent by the Biden administration to the Israeli government warning Israel to increase humanitarian aid to Palestinians in Gaza or risk a reassessment of US military support . <p> " We urge your Administration to adhere to and uphold US law by suspending offensive military transfers to Netanyahu and his government , " the lawmakers wrote in their letter sent on Tuesday . <p> " Failure to do so not only risks our leverage in ceasefire negotiations , it undermines our country 's own national security and weakens America 's commitment to human rights as a cornerstone of our foreign policy . " <p> The letter from the Biden administration sent in October came with a 30-day deadline for Israel to meet a certain set of requirements , such as allowing 350 aid trucks a day into Gaza , instituting humanitarian pauses across the strip to allow for humanitarian activities and ensuring there will be no Israeli government policy of forced evacuation of civilians from northern to southern Gaza . <h> New MEE newsletter : Jerusalem Dispatch <h> Sign up to get the latest insights and analysis on Israel-Palestine , alongside Turkey Unpacked and other MEE newsletters <p> The issue of contention with regards to US military assistance to Israel in this case centres around National Security Memorandum 20 ( NSM-20 ) , which was introduced by President Joe Biden in February this year . <p> The memorandum states that the US secretary of state must receive assurances that a foreign government will not arbitrarily deny the delivery of US humanitarian assistance in an area of armed conflict where the foreign government is using American-supplied weaponry . <p> Palestinians sue Blinken over continued US military aid to Israel despite rights abuses <p> However , the 30-day deadline set in the letter passed and there was no US reassessment of military support . Washington eventually said it was satisfied with what Israel had done regarding the humanitarian situation . <p> That conclusion came even though aid deliveries to Gaza have fallen to record lows . <p> Earlier this month , the UN announced that it was suspending aid deliveries to Gaza via the Karem Shalom crossing , with aid workers saying that criminal armed gangs were looting the aid deliveries in plain sight of Israel 's military , which is supposed to provide safe passage for the aid . <p> The lawmakers noted that since the US determined that Israel had satisfied its requirements to mitigate the humanitarian situation in Gaza , which was exacerbated by Israel 's full-scale war on the strip , Israeli forces killed a worker with the international charity Save the Children , and also killed Mahmoud Almadhoun , who ran the Gaza Soup Kitchen that was providing meals to Palestinians in need . <p> Last week , a larger group of nearly 80 lawmakers wrote a different letter to the Biden administration , calling on it to provide a full assessment of how it concluded Israel met the humanitarian requirements in Gaza that allow the US to continue sending military aid to the country . <p> A group of Palestinians also filed a lawsuit on Tuesday against US Secretary of State Antony Blinken , accusing him of not abiding by a different law - the Leahy Law - as Washington continues supplying Israel with weaponry despite a number of grave human rights abuses in Gaza . <p> Middle East Eye delivers independent and unrivalled coverage and analysis of the Middle East , North Africa and beyond . To learn more about republishing this content and the associated fees , please fill out this form . More about MEE can be found here .
