<h> Owen Jones : I investigated the BBC 's output on Gaza . Here 's what I found <h> I investigated how the BBC reports on Gaza . Here 's what I found <p> Owen Jones writes on the BBC 's approach to reporting on Gaza ( Image : Archive ) <p> THE BBC 's coverage of Israel 's genocide in Gaza is " frankly despicable " . The person I 'm quoting here is a BBC journalist , one of 13 whistleblowers who spoke to me as part of a newly published investigation for US outlet Drop Site News . <p> BBC staff are in revolt -- more than 100 accused the corporation of pro-Israel bias last month -- and their case is straightforward . The BBC is failing in its stated commitment to due impartiality . It offers excessive credulity about Israeli claims , devalues Palestinian life , ignores or whitewashes atrocities , and creates false equivalences . <p> The perennial desire to start the clock on October 7 was summed up by a reported comment by Deborah Turness , CEO of BBC News . In a rowdy editorial meeting in November 2023 , two BBC journalists state she said : " We 've got to all remember that this all started on October 7 . " Liliane Landor , the former head of the BBC World Service , in reference to decades of Israeli occupation then calmly responded : " No , I 'm going to have to say that 's not the case , and I 'm sure that 's not how you meant to phrase it . " <p> Some examples of BBC reporting have been so egregious that public and internal outrage has forced corrections . One example was in July this year , when the BBC reported the killing of a 24-year-old Palestinian with Down 's Syndrome , Muhammed Bhar , after he was attacked by an Israeli army dog , locked in a room , and his family forced from their home , before they returned to his decomposing body . The BBC 's original headline was " The lonely death of Gaza man with Down 's syndrome " , as though it was a natural death , while you had to read through 500 words to discover what had even happened . The scale of backlash meant the BBC were forced to change the headline to " Gaza man with Down 's syndrome attacked by IDF dog and left to die , mother tells BBC " . But this is what led BBC journalists to contact me : One said : " There has to be a moral line drawn in the sand . And if this story is n't it , then what ? " <p> As two brilliant data journalists , Dana Najjar and Jan Lietava , uncovered in a deep dive , there was far more proportionate coverage per Israeli death than Palestinian death . There was only one major spike in the mention of Palestinian deaths -- in early April -- and the reasons are chilling . Israel bombed a World Central Kitchen aid convoy , killing several Westerners , but also their Palestinian driver , Saifeddin Issam Ayad Abutaha . Because Western deaths were involved , the BBC devoted extensive coverage , and thus the repeated mention of the nationalities of each victim -- including Abutaha -- drove up the mention of Palestinian deaths . It took Western blood being spilt , in other words , for Palestinian life to really matter . <p> Their research exposed many other findings . Humanizing language like " daughter " or " grandfather " were proportionately used far more for Israeli deaths than Palestinian deaths , as were emotive terms like " massacre " or " atrocities " . <p> Staff had many examples . Reporting about Israeli crimes were framed around non-credible Israeli denials , like the killing of a 16-year-old girl by Israeli soldiers , or the storming of hospitals . Crucial details about how Israel is deliberately starving Gaza are excluded from reporting . Official Israeli statements committing to war crimes are buried , or not reported altogether . <p> The journalists emphasised it was a systemic problem , but they also referred to the role of Raffi Berg , the online Middle East editor . One former BBC journalist claims his " entire job is to water down everything that 's too critical of Israel " . The BBC tell me they " reject your attack on an individual member of staff " , that like all staff he must " adhere to the BBC 's editorial guidelines " , and that I " fundamentally " misdescribe his role and misunderstand how the BBC works . <p> BBC staff passionately reject this . They note articles he has written , such as about the IDF and Israeli settlers , which they emphasise fail at basic impartiality . They note he attended a pro-Israel rally in 2009 , and was even interviewed by the BBC in that capacity . He wrote a book about Mossad and its evacuation of Jewish Ethiopians , in which he described the Israeli secret services in glowing terms and described a senior Mossad commander as a " legend " who became a " very close friend " . He lauded Israeli officials , such as former Israeli ambassador Mark Regev , attending his book launch as a " big honour " , and repeatedly celebrated his book having pride of place on Benjamin Netanyahu 's bookshelf . <p> BBC staff claim he reshapes headlines , story text and even images in ways which foreground Israeli perspectives at the expense of Palestinians , with one calling his approach " death by a thousand cuts " . When I approached Berg with questions , he originally instructed defamation lawyer Mark Lewis , who is also the former director of UK Lawyers for Israel . The key point , really , is this : Would someone who attended pro-Palestinian rallies and celebrated associations with Palestinian figures be in his position ? <p> BBC staff have fought to make changes , but their objections have been treated as emotional issues , or to do with some of them being Muslim . But here 's the truth . This is one of the worst crimes of our age . Most media outlets failed to report accurately on what this is -- The National being a striking exception . It 's up to other journalists to speak up like these BBC staff members -- or be forever complicit . <h> Why are you making commenting on The National only available to subscribers ? <p> We know there are thousands of National readers who want to debate , argue and go back and forth in the comments section of our stories . We 've got the most informed readers in Scotland , asking each other the big questions about the future of our country . <p> Unfortunately , though , these important debates are being spoiled by a vocal minority of trolls who are n't really interested in the issues , try to derail the conversations , register under fake names , and post vile abuse . <p> So that 's why we 've decided to make the ability to comment only available to our paying subscribers . That way , all the trolls who post abuse on our website will have to pay if they want to join the debate -- and risk a permanent ban from the account that they subscribe with . <p> The conversation will go back to what it should be about -- people who care passionately about the issues , but disagree constructively on what we should do about them . Let 's get that debate started ! <p> Callum Baird , Editor of The National <h> Comments : Our rules <p> We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues . The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege , not a right , however , and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused. <h> follow us <p> This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation 's Editors ' Code of Practice . If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then please contact the editor here . If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact IPSO here
