<h> Palestinian Americans trapped in Gaza sue Biden administration <p> Erum Salam <p> 20 December 2024 at 2:39 pm*4-min read <p> The US secretary of state , Antony Blinken , delivers a statement to the press on 14 December 2024 . Photograph : Andrew **28;347;TOOLONG Images <p> A group of Palestinian Americans trapped in Gaza have sued the Biden administration , alleging it has abandoned them and their families , leaving them trapped in a war zone despite rescuing " similarly situated Americans of different national origins " . <p> All have been approved by the US state department to leave the territory , but have been unable to since their names were left off the department 's final crossing list for the Rafah border located on the Egypt -- Palestine border which closed on 6 May . <p> The lawsuit , which directly names Joe Biden ; the secretary of state , Antony Blinken ; and the secretary of defense , Lloyd J Austin III , points to instances when the US took action to evacuate Israeli Americans and their families shortly after Hamas 's 7 October attacks and Lebanese Americans and their families in September of this year . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> The lawsuit says the state department " initiated departure assistance on cruise ships for Americans and their families wishing to depart Israel and come to the United States " on 13 October , shortly after Hamas 's attacks . <p> " Everyone holding a United States passport in Israel , whether or not they had registered with the United States embassy in Jerusalem , was allowed to board . Passengers were greeted with champagne , mimosas and lavish buffets . In one instance , the Florida governor , Ron DeSantis , funded a flight to evacuate Floridians from Israel . " <p> Maria Kari , whose law office is representing the plaintiffs , said : " The Biden administration has exactly a month to act because it does not want the death of these Americans to be its enduring legacy . " <p> Kari , who brought her first lawsuit against the US government last year , said the legal action was her last ditch effort to save her clients before the inauguration of Donald Trump , who has vowed to bar refugees from Gaza and to immediately expand the Muslim travel ban he enacted during his first term . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> She said : " This administration 's refusal to treat Americans in Gaza the same as Americans in other conflict zones is part of its systemic dehumanization and delegitimization of Palestinian American life and suffering . <p> " While waiting to evacuate , our plaintiffs have suffered all sorts of horrors . All of these people could be killed by Israeli bombardment or from disease and starvation any day . " <p> Kari her team haveappealed to their plaintiffs ' elected officials , the state department , and White House officials for help , but said she keeps getting the same response : that the US government can not control who comes and goes from the Gaza Strip . <p> " This is simply not true , " she said . " Even after the closure of Rafah crossing , we have seen the state department work with its Israeli counterparts to consistently evacuate Americans and non-Americans through the Kerem Shalom crossing . " <p> The state department said it would not comment on pending litigation , but on Thursday during his last press briefing as Trump will soon be inaugurated , the department 's principal deputy spokesperson Vedant Patel said in response to a question about the lawsuit : " Whether it was Sudan , whether it was Niger , whether it was Lebanon , whether it was the conflict in Gaza , Israel -- we have unearthed avenues to help American citizens safety depart in creative ways . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> In response to Patel 's comment , Kari said : " Why then has this administration failed to do the same for Americans of Palestinian national origin ? " <p> Kari 's co-counsel , Yasmeen Elagha , said she was in the same position as her clients one year ago . <p> " While my family was awaiting evacuation , they were taken by Israeli forces and have since disappeared in the Israeli administrative detention system . I know and have experienced directly the devastating harm that can befall innocent Americans not evacuated in time by the US government . " <p> Elagha said : " This is an equal rights issue . All Palestinians deserve safety and security . We are doing everything in our power to bring that safety and security to those Palestinians within our reach . " <h> Latest stories <p> Firefighters in Saskatchewan have been lobbying for decades for better cancer coverage . Now , the Saskatchewan Workers Compensation Board ( WCB ) is stepping in to provide some relief.Saskatchewan firefighters are now eligible for WCB coverage for up to 22 types of cancer , six more than before.Tyler Packham has spent the last 23 years of his life as a firefighter in Regina and has already had a brush with cancer.Packham was screened at a firefighting conference and was found to have nodules on his <p> Police spokesperson Rae Hamoonga said in a statement that the two suspects , Jasten Mabulesse Candunde , 42 , and Leonard Phiri , 43 , were allegedly hired by Nelson Banda , the younger brother of fugitive lawmaker Jay Banda , to bewitch the president . Jay Banda escaped from police custody in August 2024 while facing charges of aggravated robbery . <p> President-elect Donald Trump 's billionaire ally Elon Musk played a key role this week in killing a bipartisan funding proposal that would have prevented a government shutdown , railing against the plan in a torrent of more than 100 X posts that included multiple false claims . The X owner , an unelected figure , not only used his outsize influence on the platform to help sway Congress , he did so without regard for the facts and gave a preview of the role he could play in government over the next four years . " Trump has got himself a handful with Musk , " John Mark Hansen , a professor of political science at the University of Chicago , said in an email . <p> Minneapolis has softened an ordinance that prohibited the obstruction of entrances and driveways to abortion clinics after anti-abortion activists sued to challenge it on free-speech grounds . The City Council this month quietly amended the ordinance to exclude constitutionally protected activities and agreed to pay the plaintiffs ' legal fees . Brian Gibson , chief executive officer of Pro-Life Action Ministries , said in an interview Friday that it amounted to an admission by the city that the law violated the freedom of speech . <p> German authorities are treating the incident as terrorism , U.S. law enforcement sources told ABC News . A young child and an adult were killed in the attack , according to Saxony-Anhalt Prime Minister Reiner Haseloff . People are still arriving at the hospital for treatment , a German security official said . <p> The Israeli military said its forces shot a protester during a demonstration against the army 's activities in a village in southern Syria on Friday , injuring him in the leg . " During a protest against IDF 's activities in the area of Maariya in southern Syria , IDF ( Israeli military ) called on protesters to distance themselves from the troops , " the military told AFP . The village is just outside the southern point of the UN-patrolled zone . <p> Israeli airstrikes killed at least 25 Palestinians in the Gaza Strip on Friday , medics said , including at least eight in an apartment in the Nuseirat refugee camp and at least 10 , including seven children , in the town of Jabalia . Mediators have yet to secure a ceasefire between Israel and the Islamist group Hamas after more than a year of conflict . Israel began its assault on Gaza after Hamas-led fighters attacked Israeli communities on Oct. 7 , 2023 , killing 1,200 people and taking over 250 hostages , according to Israeli tallies . <p> A recent undersea expedition off the coast of Chile has led to the discovery of a possible 60 new species of marine life . On a 55-day expedition from Valpara ? so to Punta Arenas , researchers from the Schmidt Ocean Institute surveyed nearly 20 methane seep ecosystems and four previously unseen submarine canyon systems . Stunning footage captured their findings . <p> The NFU have said that the prime minister 's admission to the Commons liaison committee proves the family farm tax was ' an indiscriminate revenue-raising measure with no thought given to who it impacts ' <p> A dramatic change in tone by Ukraine 's president - acknowledging the strength of Russia 's hold over swathes of Ukrainian territory - has coincided with the imminent return of Donald Trump to the White House . The incoming US commander-in-chief has said he can end Russia 's war in Ukraine in a day - though without saying how . One thing is certain , however ; his approach will be very different to Joe Biden 's . <p> Republican Rep. Anna Paulina Luna of Florida was heckled into silence Thursday during a speech on the House floor after blaming Democrats for the drama surrounding a looming government shutdown . Speaking in favor of a new , pared-down funding bill just hours after President-elect Donald Trump and billionaire Elon Musk blew up a bipartisan resolution that seemed on a glide path to approval , Luna began by heaping praise on Trump . " I never voted for a continuing resolution , but I 'm here today beca
