<h> Joe Biden to meet Pope in final foreign trip as U.S. President <p> ROME -- The White House has announced that United States President Joe Biden will visit Italy in January , where he will meet with Pope Francis and Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni to discuss global peace efforts and various international challenges . <p> In its Dec. 19 statement , the White House said Biden , who will step down Jan. 20 , when Donald Trump is inaugurated to his second term in office , will travel to Rome from Jan. 9-12 to meet separately with the pope , Meloni , and Italian President Sergio Mattarella . <p> Biden 's audience with Pope Francis will be Jan. 10 , it said , saying the meeting will be an opportunity to " discuss efforts to advance peace around the world . " <p> Meetings with Meloni and Mattarella will also " highlight the strength of the U.S.-Italy relationship , " and will be an occasion for Biden to thank Meloni " for her strong leadership of the G7 over the past year and discuss important challenges facing the world . " <p> The announcement of Biden 's visit came after he and Pope Francis spoke over the phone Thursday , with a separate White House readout saying that the two discussed " efforts to advance peace around the world during the holiday season . " <p> Biden also thanked the Pope " for his continued advocacy to alleviate global suffering , including his work to advance human rights and protect religious freedoms , " the readout said , saying the pope invited Biden to visit the Vatican in January , and Biden accepted . <p> The last time Pope Francis and Biden , the United States 's second Catholic president , met was in June when they participated in a G7 summit in Bari , Italy . <p> During that meeting , the White House said Biden and Francis discussed the wars in Gaza and Ukraine . <p> " The leaders emphasised the urgent need for an immediate ceasefire and a hostage deal to get the hostages home and address the critical humanitarian crisis in Gaza , " a White House statement said . <p> Biden , whose visit comes just days before the end of his term , was present for the start of Pope Francis 's papacy , when in his capacity as vice president he led the United States delegation at Francis 's inaugural Mass.
