<h> Trump 2.0 is on its way to the USA ... but is the rest of the world prepared ? <h> Trump 2.0 is on its way to the USA ... but is the world prepared ? <p> Republican presidential nominee , former U.S. President Donald Trump , gestures to the crowd as he concludes a campaign rally in Latrobe , Pennsylvania . <p> In January the president-elect takes office , but his presence home and away is already being profoundly felt . Foreign Editor David Pratt examines the likely long-term impact <p> Like an inbound hurricane , you can almost already feel the first gusts that presage his imminent arrival . One month out from when Donald Trump makes landfall at the White House for a second term as US president , his presence is blowing in across the stormy US and global political landscape . <p> World leaders are all too acutely aware of what 's coming . Or rather , they know at the very least a very elemental political force is heading their way . But just what impact it will have remains to be seen , for if a Trump presidency means anything it 's unpredictability , and that suits the president-elect just fine . <p> Perhaps it 's not surprising then that a constant stream of presidents and prime ministers or their chief aides , have been making the pilgrimage to what has become America 's unofficial court of power , Trump 's Mar-a-Lago club in Palm Beach Florida . <p> How apt it is that Florida , a region no stranger to powerful natural storms , now sits at the epicentre of a political one in the making . <p> Even before Trump this time sets foot in the White House , the stream of political bigwigs seeking an early sitting have included , Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau , Argentine President Javier Milei , and Israeli envoy Ron Dermer . <p> Keir Starmer 's chief of staff Morgan McSweeney is also reported to have travelled to Florida to meet his US counterpart Susie Wiles , a visit some political observers say suggests there is some unease within the UK government about their relationship with the US and shows an early focus on building bridges with the incoming president . <p> The Mar-a-Lago scene of today is all very far removed from what it was like during what some have dubbed Trump 's " wilderness " years , after he left office in 2012 to be replaced by Joe Biden . <p> " Mar-a-Lago was like East Berlin , " former Trump loyalist and chief strategist Steve Bannon is on the record as saying . " We were a band of pirates , Everybody was writing Trump off , " Bannon recalls . <p> But after one of the most dramatic political comeback 's in modern US history , Trump is inbound and America and the world is either battening down the hatches or offering a warm embrace to the man who will serve as the 47th president , joined by his running mate , Vice President-elect JD Vance . <p> So just what then can America and the world expect of the coming Trump presidency ? <p> Lord Mandelson is interviewed as he arrives at the Labour Party annual conference at the Brighton Centre in Brighton , Sussex <p> Government shutdown <p> To take the US itself first , even as I write , the US congress has narrowly averted a government shutdown following a day of chaos on Capitol Hill , after the Senate passed a stop-gap funding measure in the early hours of yesterday . <p> If the crisis illustrated anything , it exposed some of the limits of Trump 's power and control on his party . But it also highlights his capacity to stir things up , given that it was Trump with some help from the world 's richest man , Elon Musk , that attempted to derail the bipartisan government funding bill in the first place . <p> This capacity to stir things up is almost certainly going to be felt time and again as Trump 's presidency opens in 2025 and moves up to full speed . <p> To begin with , unlike Trump 's first term , when his initial administration team consisted of just 80 people and hundreds of positions remained unfilled for months , this time everything has been carefully prepared well in advance . From high level positions down to much lower ranking administrative roles , Trump has already designated appointees . <p> With this assembled team of loyalists around him one of the things to look out for on the domestic political front say observers , will be a new era of sweeping deregulation and tax cuts . Then there is Trump 's anticipated dishing out of payback or retribution against his domestic political adversaries that he has sometimes referred to as the " enemy from within . " Back in March 2023 , Trump ignited his supporter base when he vowed that " I will be your retribution . " <p> Such comments led outgoing Vice President Kamala Harris , who ran and lost against Trump , to say just before the vote that Trump was " obsessed with revenge , consumed with grievance , and out for unchecked power . " <p> Now that he 's won , he has both a popular mandate - and the power - to begin implementing his platform of punishment . Not only will he be free of the inhibition of running for re-election but also emboldened by a Supreme Court ruling that grants presidents ' broad immunity from criminal accountability after they leave office . <p> Those potentially on Trump 's retribution list range from President Joe Biden and his family , Vice President Kamala Harris , former President Barack Obama , former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and former Speaker Nancy Pelosi . <p> Then there is New York Attorney General Letitia James who earned Trump 's ire as a result of the lawsuit she brought alleging widespread fraud in Trump 's business empire and Special counsel Jack Smith , who brought both of the federal criminal cases against Trump . <p> Others on a very long list include former Chair of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Mark Milley , former FBI Director James Comey and former Trump attorney Michael Cohen , his once lawyer and fixer who turned on him about a year and a half into his presidency and became a key witness at the hush money trial . <p> Civilians carry a dog and belongings after a Russian ballistic missile lands in Ukraine <p> According to Ty Cobb , a White House lawyer during Trump 's first term who has since been critical of the president-elect , Trump 's first impulse is to go after people who cross him , and he 'll only be emboldened to do so in his second term . <p> The paper also noted that last Wednesday Trump posted on social media that one of his most vocal Republican critics , former congresswoman Liz Cheney could be in a lot of trouble , " citing a House GOP report released earlier last week that recommended the government criminally investigate her . <p> Trump 's pick of ultra loyalist Kash Patel to lead the FBI , someone with a published enemies list and a history of suing perceived adversaries , has vowed that " conspirators " in government and media would face consequences if he served in a second Trump administration . <p> And speaking of the media , Trump has never made any secret of his hatred of the press , which he famously calls " the enemy of the people " . <p> The president-elect recently escalated his attacks on the media , by filing a lawsuit against the Des Moines Register and its longtime pollster , accusing them of " election interference " for publishing a poll three days before the election that showed Democratic Vice President Kamala Harris winning Iowa <p> Across the US , Press watchdogs are already raising the alarm about the ways in which he might use intimidation , lawsuits , and sham investigations to harm the free press in his second term . Trump has repeatedly described wanting to be treated " fairly . " But what he would consider fair has often appeared to be news coverage that does n't challenge him . <p> So much then for Trump on the domestic front , but overseas too many expect a near disregard towards established policy norms and values . <p> To that end many world leaders are already trying to woo him into the fold , perhaps in the hope of taking the potential bite out of any of Trump 's more ' radical ' foreign policy decisions . How telling a move it was for example that French President Emmanuel Macron chose Trump -- not Biden -- for Notre Dame 's restoration ceremony . The short of it is that many are wary of what might be coming . <p> Chinese President Xi Jinping drinks from a cup during the second plenary session meeting of the National People 's Congress ( NPC ) in the Great Hall of the People in Beijing , China <p> National interest <p> Speaking about foreign policy at the Lord Mayor 's banquet in London at the start of this month , Prime Minister Keir Starmer said that the idea " that we ( UK ) must choose between our allies " is " plain wrong " . Starmer said that the national interest " demands " that the UK work with both Europe and the US , including on security . <p> But what Starmer wants and what he might get when dealing with Trump could be two very different things and reconciling the US president 's position with that of Europe on a raft of issues could prove tricky . <p> The choice of Peter Mandelson as the government 's choice for next UK ambassador to Washington has not exactly set things off on the right foot it would seem . <p> As Politico magazine pointed out , Mandelson , who is staunchly anti-Brexit and supports more cooperation with China , looks to be a hard sell in Trump 's Washington . <p> That much was made clear by Trump 's top campaign adviser Chris LaCivita in a social media post on Friday who said Mandelson " should stay home , " and was " an absolute moron " . <p> When viewed from a European perspective and if Trump 's past record is anything to go by then the future of alliances could prove a serious early test . <p> Washington 's impending withdrawal of US support for Ukraine is already marking Europe jittery and seeking to make contingency plans in response to what Trump might do . <p> According to the Financial Times based on details from Trump 's closest foreign policy aides , European officials have been told that the incoming US president will demand NATO member states increase defence spending to 5 per cent of GDP but still plans to continue supplying military aid to Ukraine . <p> The news that Trump now intends to maintain US military supplies to Kyiv after his inauguration will come as something of a relief in Europe . Trump has never been a fan of the EU and there have been fears that given Germany in limbo pending February 's election and Macron 's leadership on a shaky footing , Trump might seek to exploit such weaknesses . <p> Looking further afield in terms of the " Trump effect , " last week in a typically unconventional move the president-elect invited Chinese President Xi Jinping to his inauguration in January , adding that he and Xi could work together " to solve all the problems of the world . " <p> While observers were quick to quip that if only things were that simple , Trump 's gesture and words still shows his willingness to open a corridor for China to approach the new administration , even if Beijing is unlikely to go down that route . <p> Lurking in the background to all this of course is that thorny issue of tariffs that Trump has vowed to impose on goods from China - and other countries too <p> Trump ' diplomacy ' <p> As James Palmer , deputy editor of Foreign Policy magazine observed about Trump 's invitation to Xi , " this posturing seems to be part of his ( Trump 's ) idea of diplomacy : that it can be settled through personalised meetings with the men in charge , whether that is Russian President Vladmir Putin or North Korean leader Kim Jon Un . " <p> As for the Middle East , its political landscape has changed profoundly since Trump was last in office . This means that Trump 2.0 's Middle East policy will have to adjust to the new realities and can not simply repeat that of the first term . <p> His two biggest challenges now are undoubtedly Iran and Gaza with Syria becoming the most recent addition to the list . <p> Given that Trump has included plenty of pro-Israel figures in his new administration tells us much about the direction of travel his policy in the region will take . Yet still the uncertainty over what he might do remains as was summed up recently by John Bolton , Trump 's national security adviser for 18 months in his first term . <p> " It is impossible to predict what a man without a foreign policy philosophy will do - Trump is purely transactional , " Bolton told the FT . " The big difference is that he will be surrounded by ' yes ' people this time . " <p> Looking ahead , the " Trump effect " seen thus far may be merely preliminary , but already his unique capacity to sow confusion and steal headlines with remarks belittling Canada , intimidating the media and torpedoing a budget deal in Congress are signs of things to come . <p> During this first term in office there was no shortage of sensational announcements , spectacular dismissals , constant reversals and diplomatic turmoil . From world leaders to lowly analysts , all faced a dilemma : do you take everything Trump says at face value , or simply ignore the words of the leader of the world 's most powerful nation ? <p> Whatever he is , Trump is a man impossible to ignore and some who know him well , like Trump ally and strategist Roger Stone , believe his coming presidency will define the current era of US politics . <p> " We are living in the age of Trump , " Stone was quoted recently by the FT as saying in an interview . " Historians will look back on 2024 as a change of era like they have for the election of 1932 , when Roosevelt 's New Deal came in , or for 1968 when Richard Nixon gave birth to the new right . " <p> Time will tell whether such and assessment proves accurate . But meantime for the foreseeable future , the political forecast looks set to become decidedly unsettled . <h> Why are you making commenting on The Herald only available to subscribers ? <p> It should have been a safe space for informed debate , somewhere for readers to discuss issues around the biggest stories of the day , but all too often the below the line comments on most websites have become bogged down by off-topic discussions and abuse . <p> heraldscotland.com is tackling this problem by allowing only subscribers to comment . <p> We are doing this to improve the experience for our loyal readers and we believe it will reduce the ability of trolls and troublemakers , who occasionally find their way onto our site , to abuse our journalists and readers . We also hope it will help the comments section fulfil its promise as a part of Scotland 's conversation with itself . <p> We are lucky at The Herald . We are read by an informed , educated readership who can add their knowledge and insights to our stories . <p> That is invaluable . <p> We are making the subscriber-only change to support our valued readers , who tell us they do n't want the site cluttered up with irrelevant comments , untruths and abuse . <p> In the past , the journalist 's job was to collect and distribute information to the audience . Technology means that readers can shape a discussion . We look forward to hearing from you on heraldscotland.com <h> Comments &amp; Moderation <p> Readers ' comments : You are personally liable for the content of any comments you upload to this website , so please act responsibly . We do not pre-moderate or monitor readers ' comments appearing on our websites , but we do post-moderate in response to complaints we receive or otherwise when a potential problem comes to our attention . You can make a complaint by using the ' report this post ' link . We may then apply our discretion under the user terms to amend or delete comments . <p> Post moderation is undertaken full-time 9am-6pm on weekdays , and on a part-time basis outwith those hours . <h> follow us <p> This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation 's Editors ' Code of Practice . If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then please contact the editor here . If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact IPSO here
