<p> Hello . It looks like you 're using an ad blocker that may prevent our website from working properly . To receive the best experience possible , please make sure any ad blockers are switched off , or add https : **25;2499;TOOLONG to your trusted sites , and refresh the page . <h> My faith in how Ahmed engages with reality <p> Two Palestinian children are seen in front of a destroyed building as a result of an Israeli forces ' attack . Photo : Hassan Jedi/Anadolu via Getty Images <p> As I ended the call to Ahmed Fouad Alkhatiba , a Palestinian American campaigner who runs Project Unified Assistance , three months ago it dawned on me that , if this was the first time that I 'd heard directly from a Gazan in a year of war , it would also likely be the case for our readers -- perhaps more so . <p> Despite losing 32 members of his family in this war , or rather because of it , he had become one of the most vocal Palestinian critics of Hamas in the West , bringing nuance and undisputed humanity to this debate which has been so lacking , both online and off . Jewish News is n't in the business of bringing speakers to the UK , but this time it felt too important not to . <p> Fast forward 12 weeks and over four days last week , he took part in a public conversation with JN columnist Josh Glancy at JW3 , met Sir Tony Blair to talk about Gaza 's day after , held discussions with parliamentarians , foreign office officials and public intellectuals like Simon Sebag-Montefiore and answered questions from senior imams , bishops and rabbis at Westminster Abbey in what was one of the most high-level gatherings of clergy in the UK since 7 October . The event was organised with help from the interfaith adviser Liz Harris-Sawczenko . <p> The almost unbearable strains placed on inter-community relations over the last 14 months meant that such a gathering was far from inevitable . But the level of interest in further engagement even among those who would n't see themselves as strong Israel allies would alone have made the trip worthwhile . <p> As I said in introductory remarks at the Abbey ( not a sentence many Jewish journalists have ever uttered , I imagine ! ) , British Jews and followers of other faiths will be living alongside each other in the UK long after this war -- just as Israelis and Palestinians will be -- and it would be a dereliction of leadership to refuse to engage with this reality just because it feels so difficult . As Ahmed reminded each of those he met , this is n't about " Kumbaya " . It is however about moving out of the bubbles we all live in , hearing other perspectives and ending dangerous vacuums of contact . It does n't mean we all have to agree : we simply wo n't . <p> Not everyone at the Abbey was on the same page as Ahmed . Indeed participants were n't necessarily even on the same page as other leaders from their own faith . But it was a respectful conversation during which several senior figures heard a nuanced viewpoint they had n't before and some plan to do more in their own communities . Surely that 's a good thing . <p> In truth , only when such conversations can take place in public or be reported in full by newspapers will we be able to say that we have really succeeded . <p> On the penultimate day of the trip , during a visit to Leeds , we were reminded how far away we are from that and at the same time why we must not give up . <p> " They should get on , " the observant Muslim taxi driver who collected us from the station replied when asked if there are historically positive relations between his community and Jews in the city . Unaware that I was Jewish or that Ahmed was from Gaza , he went on : " Israel is a reality today . They ( Hamas ) should n't have started a war . " If I did n't know better I 'd have thought he was a plant to ensure the smoothest of arrivals . <p> Once at Makkah Mosque , Ahmed offered to the 20 or so assembled congregants the same take as he had to politicians and members of the Jewish community alike : that it is possible to hold two thoughts in one 's head at the same time . That the present moment requires just that . <p> That it is possible to be stinging in criticism of Israel while being utterly damning about Hamas and its treatment of the Palestinians . That strongly questioning why 32 members of his family were lost in Israeli strikes in this war does not preclude him from being scathing about elements of the " aid industry " , or doubting how pro-Palestine those who take to the streets calling for an intifada actually are . <p> This encounter was even less likely than the one at the Abbey two days earlier and Imam Qari Asim deserves huge credit for taking a risk and showing leadership . As elsewhere , tensions have been running extremely high in Leeds and some Jews have faced ostracisation or worse . Did I ever imagine that a proudly Jewish newspaper such as the Jewish News would bring a prominent Palestinian critic of Hamas into a conservative mosque in the heart of Leeds to discuss Israel-Gaza during a war ? Not remotely . But it happened , no one walked out and the world carried on . <p> Those in attendance at the historic talk were not hand-picked for having " sanitised " views but chose to attend alongside Jewish neighbours after a flier was circulated among congregants . They were largely men in middle age or older and a few younger women . There was no strong sense of attachment to Hamas in the question and answer session , but Ahmed was pressed hard including on the question of what the Palestinian Authority in the Wast Bank had achieved through its approach . Overall , there was a palpable sense of a lack of hope in the future for Palestinians . <p> While I was profoundly moved that the event took place and felt the conversation could have continued far longer , I ca n't say I left with the impression that the gap between Jewish and majority Muslim opinion is any narrower at this moment than the chasm many fear . Equally I left more determined than ever to pursue serious dialogue including on the most thorny issues , for the sake of the future of the Jewish community as much as for others . It may not be as fruitful as we 'd hope , especially in moments like this , but at least it means we are engaging with reality . Am I naive ? Perhaps -- but can anyone point to the alternative , one that leaves British Jews feeling safer , more content ? <p> It was the honour of my year to host Ahmed in the UK . With each meeting , it became clearer that Ahmed -- with his no-nonsense , honest approach combined with his personal experience and global platform -- has the potential to be a key player in inter-community and intra-community dialogue . <p> Hello . It looks like you 're using an ad blocker that may prevent our website from working properly . To receive the best experience possible , please make sure any ad blockers are switched off , or add https : **25;2526;TOOLONG to your trusted sites , and refresh the page .
