<h> What is Israel doing in Syria ? Benjamin Netanyahu may be about to overplay his hand <p> I would like to be emailed about offers , event and updates from Evening Standard . Read our privacy notice . <p> Three days ago , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his Defence Minister Israel Katz visited forward positions of the Israel Army at the peak of snow-capped Mount Hermon . <p> They were in Syria , beyond the demilitarised buffer zone agreed in the aftermath of the 1973 Yom Kippur War . Netanyahu said Israeli troops would remain there " until other arrangement can be made to guarantee Israel 's security . " <p> " We will remain here as long as it 's needed , " Katz added , as Mount Hermon gave a strategic overlook into the Hezbollah villages in southern Lebanon and the plains sweeping to Damascus and beyond . <p> Israel said it was striking military targets to ensure that equipment and munitions of the Assad forces , including chemical weapons possibly , did n't fall into the hands of the new rulers in Damascus , whom they tarred as a jihadi regime . <p> The Turkish government accused Israel of using the chaos in Syria as an opportunity to expand its borders . In turn , Turkey -- a quiet backer of the HTS militia -- has been accused of pursuing its own expansionist aims -- and using the Syrian upheaval to attack its old enemy , the Kurds , who are part of the broad coalition headed by HTS that so spectacularly overthrew the Assad dictatorship in a matter of days . <p> Last week the US moved some of its light reconnaissance forces to block the Turks from attacking the Kurdish element of Syrian Democratic Army , SDA , which Washington has sponsored from the first . <p> Two of America 's restless allies , Turkey and Israel , are now at the centre of the " polycrisis " of the Middle East focused on Israel , Syria and Iran . The question for the incoming Trump administration , and their allies , is whether these two powers are part of the solution to the crisis , or part of the problem ? <p> There are several epicentres to the seismic shifts in the polycrisis , to borrow the term coined by Ivan Krastev and Mark Leonard to describe the way crises now cluster across the world . <p> The immediate focus is the fragile regime being put together by the HTS leader Ahmed al-Sharaa , aka Mohammad al-Jolani , in Damascus . So far , al-Sharaa and Mohammed Yasser Ghazal , the young acting governor of Damascus , have been talking of a broad coalition , tolerance of minorities , reconstruction , and a government by Syrians for Syrians . Israel public statements -- and , curiously , the burden of commentary from the BBC -- have stressed what they see as the jihadi provenance of the HTS leaders -- going back to al Qaeda and Osama bin Laden . <p> This is seen as Israel 's ploy to keep Syria weak <p> This is seen as Israel 's ploy to keep Syria weak . The UN humanitarian affairs envoy Tom Fletcher , on the other hand , who observed HTS in its governance of the enclave of Irbil over a year , has told the BBC that the new regime in Damascus deserves benefit of the doubt , albeit with careful monitoring , in their attempt to establish peace and stability . <p> The repeated questioning of the jihadi antecedents of the new HTS team takes almost no consideration of the emerging evidence that planning of their march on Damascus had input from the CIA . <p> Israel 's tactics in Syria , as in Lebanon and Gaza , have been based on the intensive use of military force -- principally rocket and aerial bombing . <p> The use of overwhelming force has produced strategic results <p> With the use of brilliant covert operations , such as planting small bombs in the pagers and walkie-talkies of Hezbollah commanders , the use of overwhelming force has produced strategic results . It has also brought a huge cost in the enormous loss and damage of civilian lives -- which is against the norms of the laws of war and humanitarian law . <p> One of the biggest strikes was the 100 aircraft strike on Iran around October 26 -- which knocked out a large part of Iran 's missile defence , including Russian S-300 systems , and much of Iran 's missile and drone industry . <p> Netanyahu seems set on using war at home and across the region to keep him and his allies of settler parties in power . He and his justice minister Yovar Levin , the quieter and more subtle hardliner of the coalition , have resumed the attack to curb the Supreme Court and the popular and outspoken Attorney General Gali Baharav Miara . <p> This bodes badly for the latest bid to get Hamas to release the remaining hostages , some 65 believed still to be alive . Hopes have been raised that Netanyahu is on board -- despite hardliners like Itamar Ben-Gvir , the security minister , pushing for Israel to partially or wholly re-occupy Gaza . <p> In his emphasis of military might , continuous bombardment of real or notional enemies , and political aggression , Netanyahu appears to overlook a key feature of Donald Trump , his would-be saviour and backer from next month . Trump likes quick deals , and does n't like long and unpredictable wars . <p> It could be that Israel 's prime minister is about to overplay his hand .
