<h> Ireland in 2024 : From portals to polls , tents to bike sheds <h> The Sunday Times looks back on a year when the Oscars , Olympics and Eurovision vied for headlines with elections , scandals , protests , conflicts and court cases <p> Taylor Swift could be said to have had a good year in Ireland on her record revenue-generating Eras tour <p> CHARLES MCQUILLAN/TAS24/GETTY IMAGES/TAS RIGHTS MANAGEMENT <p> Pavel Barter <p> Sunday December 22 2024 , 12.01am , The Sunday Times <p> When a public sculpture this year linked O'Connell Street in Dublin with Fifth Avenue in New York via a two-way live video screen , it was heralded as a platform for joyous transatlantic communion . " Two amazing global cities , connected in real-time and space , " Ya-Ting Liu , chief public realm officer for New York city , said . Daith ? de R ? iste , Dublin 's lord mayor , encouraged citizens to " interact with the sculpture " and they did just that -- although not in the way de R ? iste might have imagined . <p> Within days of the launch of the Portal in May there were reports of Dubliners flashing body parts , theatrically snorting drugs , and in one incident presenting a picture to Americans of a plane crashing into the World Trade Center on 9/11 . A news outlet described the interactive sculpture as an ode to " international idiocy " . The New York Post was more disparaging , calling it a " portal to hell " . <p> The description may be unfair but turning a microscope on the Ireland of 2024 does not exactly reveal a land of milk and honey . First-time buyers hoping to get a foothold on the property market , in particular , faced a hellish time . According to the Central Statistics Office ( CSO ) , housing prices surged by 6.1 per cent in the year to February . <p> Reports across the year indicated a deepening crisis . Savills announced the country 's population was growing at a rate of four people for every new home built ; the Central Bank of Ireland reported that an extra 20,000 properties needed to be built annually to ease shortages . The CSO illustrated a stark urban-rural divide in the housing crisis : one new housing unit was started for every 83 people living in south Dublin , compared with one for every 648 in Roscommon . Yet the state of dereliction in rural areas was also on the rise : more than 30,000 commercial units were classified as vacant across the country , according to one report . <p> Despite its broken housing system , Ireland recorded some enormous highs this year . In sport , Kellie Harrington boxed her way to a second gold medal in the Summer Olympics , while in society the new deposit return scheme led to arguably the biggest consumer behavioural shift since the introduction of the plastic bag tax in 2001 . <h> Advertisement <p> Yet citizens appeared apathetic when faced with progressive reform in the family and care referendums . While the government campaigned for " yes-yes " to change the constitution , a paltry 44.36 per cent of the nation turned out to respond with a resounding " no-no " in March . <p> Leo Varadkar , the taoiseach , admitted he was among many people who had " got it wrong " on the family and care referendums <p> NICK BRADSHAW/PA <p> Leo Varadkar took it on the chin . People " got this wrong " , the then taoiseach said , " and I 'm certainly one of them " . After that crushing defeat , the Fine Gael leader travelled to Washington to meet President Biden , but there were no pardons over the lacklustre referendum campaign . Varadkar , some commentators suggested , was a liability who had " lost his mojo " . On March 20 , Varadkar resigned as taoiseach and leader of Fine Gael , citing political and personal reasons . It was one of a number of high-profile political resignations in 2024 -- a few months later Eamon Ryan bowed out as leader of the Green Party . <p> Simon Harris , at the age of 37 , was declared the new leader of Fine Gael and the country 's youngest taoiseach . At his convention soir ? e in Athlone , Co Westmeath , Harris vowed to pour " blood , sweat and tears " into the role and he condemned the funeral of a man convicted of the murder of Garda Jerry McCabe in 1996 . " When I saw the tricolour of this republic draped over the coffin of a garda killer , I say shame , " Harris said . " Fine Gael stands for law and order . " <p> Ireland 's immigration system , like the housing market , seemed more defined by disorder , though . In March , hundreds of homeless asylum seekers were transferred from tents in Mount Street in the capital to the Dublin Mountains . The government denied it was clearing the streets for St Patrick 's Day . <p> A camp of homeless immigrants in Dublin , above , led to protests , below <p> SASKO LAZAROV/ROLLINGNEWS.IE <p> ROLLINGNEWS.IE <p> Homeless migrants became a common sight in the nation 's capital in 2024 , and the number of people in emergency homeless accommodation reached a record high of 15,000 by the end of the year . Attacks on sites designated to refugees and international protection applicants continued . In June , there were two separate public disorder incidents at a former factory in Coolock , leading to 22 people being charged . <h> Advertisement <p> Justice delayed is justice denied according to the maxim but , 43 years after the Stardust nightclub fire that killed 48 people on Valentine 's Day in 1981 , survivors and relatives of the victims were finally given relief in April when an inquest returned a verdict of unlawful killing in all cases . <p> The fire , the jury found , was caused by a faulty electrical outlet at the Artane nightclub and the victims were unable to escape via the emergency exits because they were locked or obstructed . Harris delivered a formal state apology in the Dail while the gardai pledged to review the case " at the highest level " . <p> The legal system 's handling -- and alleged mishandling -- of gender-based violence came into sharp focus in the courts this year . In June , thousands of people marched in Limerick , Cork , Galway and Dublin in solidarity with a woman who was beaten unconscious in a random street attack in 2022 . The perpetrator -- Cathal Crotty , a soldier -- had walked free from court after the judge gave him a suspended jail sentence . <p> In November , a High Court jury found Conor McGregor , the mixed martial arts star , guilty of rape in a civil sexual assault case taken by Nikita Hand and they awarded his victim ? 250,000 in damages . " No matter how afraid you might be , speak up , " said Hand after the jury delivered its verdict . " You have a voice and keep on fighting for justice . No matter who they are . " Dublin Rape Crisis Centre described the verdict as " an important blow to a toxic layer " around society 's views of sexual violence . <p> Cillian Murphy , the actor from Cork , landed a succession of best actor awards for his lead role in Oppenheimer , above <p> ALAMY <p> Heroes may have been hard to come by in 2024 but there was one person everyone could rally behind . This was the year of Cillian Murphy , the Cork actor whose lead role in Oppenheimer landed him a succession of best actor awards at the Golden Globes , Iftas and Oscars , where he accepted his trophy saying : " I am a very proud Irishman standing here . " <h> Advertisement <p> The nation also cheered on Bambie Thug , who finished sixth at the Eurovision Song Contest -- Ireland 's first top-ten finish since 2011 . Fellow musicians Kneecap , the rabble-rousing rap group from Belfast , released the most successful Irish-language movie in history , making more than ? 2.5 million at the box office in the UK and Ireland alone and being tipped for two nominations at the 2025 Oscars . <p> In November , the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) issued an arrest warrant for Binyamin Netanyahu , the prime minister of Israel , over war crimes and crimes against humanity in Gaza . The taoiseach confirmed Netanyahu would be arrested if he set foot in Ireland . It appeared to be the final straw for the Israelis , who announced their decision to close their embassy in Ireland , citing " the extreme anti-Israel policies of the Irish government " . <p> Mega summer concerts provided a brief respite from grim domestic and international affairs . Bruce Springsteen , at 74 , conducted lengthy performances at Dublin , Belfast , Cork and Kilkenny . Taylor Swift brought her Eras tour to 150,000 fans across three nights in the Aviva Stadium , where she played for more than three hours each time . " I have n't been about to play a show in Dublin for over five years , " the 34-year-old told her adoring Swifties . " Nobody does it like you , you know this . " <p> On the weekend of Swift 's concerts , Dublin 's reputation as a party capital was in full swing with a simultaneous Shania Twain concert at Malahide Castle , an LGBTQ+ Pride parade , Latitude Festival and the GAA football All-Ireland quarter-finals . <h> Advertisement <p> Some Swift fans trying to get last-minute tickets complained about being scammed out of hundreds of euros by online fraudsters . Oasis fans , however , directed their venom at Ticketmaster and the band when tickets for the group 's reunion show at Croke Park next year were inflated from ? 176 on pre-sale to more than ? 400 . <p> This bike shelter cost about the same to build as a three-bedroom house in Dublin <p> NIALL CARSON/PA WIRE <p> Nothing , however , seemed as expensive as a bicycle shed outside Leinster House . In September , news emerged that the Office of Public Works spent ? 336,000 , including ? 45,000 on granite paving , on a shed holding 18 bikes . The saga was a " profound embarrassment and the depth of public anger is entirely justified " , admitted Se ? n ? Feargha ? l , the ceann comhairle . Logboy National School , near Ballyhaunis in Mayo , quietly pointed out it had installed a bike shed of similar proportions for ? 4,000 -- about 1 per cent the price of the government shed . <p> Something was rotten inside Leinster House as well as in the parking lot . In October , The Sunday Times revealed that an unnamed Oireachtas politician , codenamed Cobalt , had been recruited as a spy by Russia and was being monitored by the security forces . <p> A career in politics was becoming an increasingly dangerous profession for other reasons . A bomb threat was made against the family home of Harris , and masked men arrived outside the taoiseach 's house under the pretence of a protest . A man posted an online death threat against Mary Lou McDonald , Sinn Fein leader , while Aodh ? n ? R ? ord ? in and Roderic O'Gorman were allegedly assaulted while canvassing in Dublin . " Politicians have become a regular target and it is on the brink of being viewed as acceptable or a normal part of the job , " Harris said . " It is not acceptable . " <p> The year ended in a flurry of elections . Donald Trump was elected for a second term in the White House in the wake of two assassination attempts and after Kamala Harris succeeded to the Democratic nomination as Biden stepped down . Ireland was also preparing to shape its own future in November , although some parties struggled to convince voters they were stain-free . <h> Advertisement <p> Sinn Fein was criticised over its handling of two press officers who gave references to a former colleague under investigation for child sex offences , of which he was later convicted . Harris apologised after he was caught on video dismissing a disability services worker , and Fine Gael defended its decision to stand by election candidate John McGahon after The Sunday Times published photographs showing the injuries he inflicted on a man outside a pub in Dundalk in 2018 . McGahon was found not guilty of assault in a criminal trial of the case but he was found 65 per cent liable in a civil case . <p> In Aras an Uachtarain President Higgins met Simon Harris who formally tendered his resignation as taoiseach for the national elections to take place <p> MAXWELLS/PA <p> McGahon 's drama was not a patch on that of Gerard " the Monk " Hutch , another election candidate . The 61-year-old , who has been linked to gangland violence and bank robberies since the 1970s , was on bail on money-laundering charges in Spain when he was freed to run in Dublin Central . Running as an independent , Hutch garnered more than 3,000 first-preference votes but he was narrowly beaten by Labour 's Marie Sherlock . <p> There were no alarms and no surprises when Fianna Fail won the most Dail seats , with Sinn Fein and Fine Gael coming in second and third . The election further outlined Ireland 's apathy over its political establishment . The turnout was 59.7 per cent -- the lowest since the foundation of the state -- and when offered a chance for change , voters instead placed the old bosses back in business . <p> The New York -- Dublin Portal also experienced a resurrection of sorts after its cameras were turned off following the " inappropriate behaviour " of its users , according to Dublin city council . The portal reopened in May with updated digital technology that blurred the screen if people came too close but the damage had been done and interest had waned . The nation had moved on , although the problems that plagued the country at the start of the year were not exactly resolved as we reach its bitter end .
