<h> Israel tour applications ' already exceeding last year 's numbers ' <p> Numbers of Israel Tour applicants are already significantly higher than for last summer ( Photo : UJIA ) <p> Within ten days of opening , applications for Israel Tour have already exceeded the total number of participants in last summer 's programme , organisers said this week . <p> Nine youth movements are taking groups out to Israel , compared to six last year , and sign-ups were " significantly higher " than the 500 16-year-olds who went in July , Adam Waters , director of Israel Experience , told the JC . <p> " Since launching Israel Tour 2025 , ... we have already seen huge interest from the Jewish community in returning to Israel this summer . With ... spaces filling up fast , numbers are already significantly higher than last year 's total , and we encourage those who have not yet applied to do so quickly to avoid disappointment . " <p> Amidst security concerns among parents and participants , figures for July 2024 dropped 60 per cent from 2023 , when a bumper year saw 1,200 teenagers sign up . But usually , 1,000 to 1,100 people went on tour annually , said UJIA , which oversees most post-GCSE Israel trips . <p> Of this year 's nine movements , Bnei Akiva , Ezra , FZY , Noam , Sinai , Tribe are only going to Israel , whereas Habonim Dror , LJY-Netzer RSY-Netzer are including an Israel element as part of a wider summer trip . <p> The opening of applications for the tours in the summer of 2025 coincided with the foreign office relaxing its travel guidance for Israel , which , said Waters , should " help to reassure those parents who still had concerns for this summer " . <p> Last Friday , the Foreign Office returned to pre-war advice and is no longer advising against " all travel " or " all but essential travel " to the majority of Israel , including Tel Aviv , Jerusalem , Eilat , the Dead Sea , Haifa , and the Galilee . <p> The FCDO is continuing to warn against travel to certain areas , including Gaza , the West Bank , and regions within 500 meters of the Syrian border in the Golan Heights , where the security situation remains more volatile . <p> Waters said : " As with every year , UJIA Israel Experience works closely security experts on the ground in Israel to ensure all tours can be run safely and securely . We welcome the updated FCDO guidance that acknowledges the safety of Israel travel . " <p> New travel guidelines could also potentially broaden itineraries as insurance would now cover for travel to the Western Negev region . Waters said that many youth movements were now exploring " age appropriate , educational , and volunteering activities that can take place in this area to ensure our community can best support those still trying to rebuild their lives and livelihoods over a year after the devastating attacks of October 7 , 2023 " . <p> For the first time ever , UJIA is partnering with Mosaic Teens to offer a ? 2,200 subsidy to applicants who had only had limited prior experience of Israel and the Jewish community . They are also continuing to offer means-tested bursaries and interest-free loans . Eligibility for a UJIA bursary or interest-free loan would not be affected by receiving a new subsidy , said the organisation . <p> Waters said that UJIA aimed " to remove as many barriers-to-entry as possible so that every young person can experience a transformational experience in Israel " . <p> Mandie Winston , UJIA CEO , said : " Thanks to the hard work of colleagues across UJIA , the Jewish Agency , UJIA Israel Experience , the youth movements and partners on the ground in Israel , we are confident of a successful summer ahead . <p> " The impact of Israel Tour is felt on many levels throughout a person 's life , and communally , it is often the start of engagement and leadership in Jewish life and organisations . "
