<h> The evolution of AOC <p> They may have lost the presidency , the House , and the Senate , but when it comes to avoiding introspection , the Democrats are completely undefeated . You 'd have thought that after the disastrous presidential election , the Democrats might have taken some time to figure out what went wrong . You 'd have thought they might have decided to try and refresh the party -- make it more relevant to disenchanted voters . You 'd have thought they might have realized that they needed to shake things up . <p> Well , you 'd have thought wrong . As the recent drama with Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez shows , it 's business as usual with the Democratic establishment . Instead of trying to present a fresh new face to the world , they 're continuing to be a party of geriatric multimillionaires who are more concerned about pomp and procedure than actually winning elections . <p> A recap for those who did n't follow : earlier this month , 35-year-old AOC launched her bid to become the lead Democrat on the House oversight committee -- a crucial minority leadership position . She was competing against 74-year-old Gerry Connolly , a longtime representative from Virginia who was next in line for the job . Connolly , by the way , has esophagus cancer and is undergoing chemotherapy . Still , his allies have made it very clear they think he has the energy for the job . " Gerry 's a young 74 , cancer notwithstanding , " said Virginia Democrat Don Beyer . <p> The race between AOC and Connolly was broadly seen as not just representing a competition between two people but two different futures for the Democratic party . AOC represented a generational shift : a fresh young face and energetic communicator who represents a more anti-establishment spirit . Connolly was business as usual for the Democrats . For a while , it seemed like AOC had a real shot at winning , but then 84-year-old Nancy Pelosi , recovering in hospital from hip-replacement surgery , reportedly made a bunch of phone calls and urged people to back Connolly . On Tuesday , he won by a vote of 131-84 . <p> " I think my colleagues were measuring their votes by who 's got experience , who is seasoned , who can be trusted , who 's capable and who 's got a record of productivity and I think that prevailed , " Connolly told reporters after the vote . And I think the Democrats seem to have absolutely no desire to change . <p> That is n't true of AOC , by the way . The representative has changed remarkably during her time in power . She started in office in 2019 as a progressive firebrand but drifted increasingly to the center in a seeming attempt to appease the party leaders and advance her career . " AOC Is Just a Regular Old Democrat Now , " New York Magazine proclaimed last year after she endorsed Joe Biden for a second term . Gradually , she seems to have abandoned everything she once stood for . In an attempt to secure her leadership bid , Axios reported , she 'd even promised to end her support for primary challengers to fellow House Democrats . <p> Her metamorphosis has n't gone unnoticed . " The view of her is evolving , " the representative Glenn Ivey told Axios . " She seems to have changed her approach to legislating , and I think she 's figured out how to rock the boat without tipping it over . " At this stage , however , AOC might be realizing that despite selling out a lot of her supporters , the Democratic establishment still are n't prepared to let her steer the ship . Maybe when she 's in her 80s it 'll finally be her turn . <p> While AOC may not be the progressive force she once was , having her as the lead Democrat on the House oversight committee would still have represented a shift for the Democratic party . Elevating her into a leadership position would have signaled a new start . Instead , it looks like the Democrats are committed to repeating the same old strategies , with the same aging politicians , in the hope that , this time , they might work . <h> No women will lead House committees for first time in two decades <p> " The last time there was not at least one woman leading a standing committee in the House was the 109th Congress , from 2005 until 2006 , " reports ABC . <h> Dominique Pelicot sentenced to 20 years in prison <p> " Women around the world have followed the case , discussed it , thought about it , " writes Rebecca Solnit in the Guardian . " But have men ? Until men engage earnestly and honestly with the pervasiveness of sexual assault and the aspects of the culture that celebrate and normalise it , not enough will change . " <h> Structural sexism is a risk factor for memory decline among women <p> Women born in the most sexist US states experienced faster memory decline as they aged compared with women born in the least sexist states , a new study from researchers at Columbia University has found . " Our findings suggest that addressing social inequities may be a powerful way to lower the burden of Alzheimer 's among women , " the study leader noted . <h> Elon Musk heroically slashes funding for pediatric cancer research <p> Did anyone in the US actually elect Musk to office ? Nope , but he seems to think he 's the president now and is already meddling in policy . The billionaire just got involved with Congress 's spending bill deliberations and is now getting blamed for the fact that a new spending bill has removed $190m in funding for a bipartisan child cancer research program . Ca n't have money going to sick kids when it could be going towards tax breaks for the rich , can we ? <h> Bible removed from Texas school district due to law banning ' sexually explicit ' content <h> How women are starting to be heard on femicide in Ivory Coast <p> Nearly 200 women and girls marched through the Ivory Coast town of Grand-Bassam earlier this month , in the culmination of 16 days of activism to denounce femicide in the west African country . <h> Human Rights Watch accuses Israel of acts of genocide in Gaza <p> The campaign group has said that " since October 2023 , Israeli authorities have deliberately obstructed Palestinians ' access to the adequate amount of water required for survival in the Gaza Strip " . The HRW executive director , Tirana Hassan , has called this " a calculated policy of deprivation that has led to the deaths of thousands from dehydration and disease that is nothing short of the crime against humanity of extermination , and an act of genocide " . <h> Greg Abbott 's new billboard campaign warns migrants they 'll get raped <p> A few years ago , the Texas governor declared that he was going to " eliminate rape " . Obviously , he did not manage to do this . In fact , a study published in January found there have been an estimated 26,300 pregnancies as a result of rape in Texas , the highest of any state with a total abortion ban . Abbott 's new plan is to weaponize rape to deter immigrants : he 's just launched a billboard campaign which warns migrants that their daughters and wives could be raped by sex traffickers if they come to the United States . <h> The week in pawtriarchy <p> There 's a shocking dearth of uplifting cute animal news this week , I 'm afraid . Rather it turns out that squirrels in California are now displaying carnivorous behaviour and decapitating their prey . And , while the Golden state is now full of killer squirrels , there are a bunch of " really big " monkeys roaming around Florida . It 's feeling more and more like we 're in the series finale of America and the writers have decided to go all out .
