<p> Michael D.Higgins , the Irish President , has been accused of spreading lies after saying Israel is trying to establish settlements in Egypt ( Photo : Getty Images ) <p> Irish President Michael D Higgins has been accused of spreading lies after alleging that Israel would like " to have a settlement in Egypt " during a press conference on Tuesday . <p> Higgins made the controversial statement while answering questions about Ireland 's deteriorating diplomatic relations with Israel during a credentials ceremony for PLO Ambassador Jilan Abdaljamid and Ambassador of Italy Nicola Faganello . <p> The comment came after Israeli Foreign Minister Gideon Sa'ar branded Irish Prime Minister Simon Harris an antisemite amid the ministry 's decision to close the Israeli embassy in Dublin . <p> Higgins said it was a " very serious business to actually brand a people because in fact they disagree with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , who is in breach of so many bits of international law , and who has beached the sovereignty of three of his neighbours , in relation to Lebanon , Syria , and would like in fact actually to have a settlement into Egypt . " <p> President Michael D Higgins has said that to say the Irish people are anti-Semitic is a " gross defamation and slander " , and it is a " very serious business " to do so simply because people disagree with the actions of the Israeli Prime Minister . Read more : https : **39;1548;TOOLONG ... He added : " I think to suggest that because one criticises Prime Minister Netanyahu , that is , one is antisemitic , is such a gross defamation and slander . Well , I have to say that originally when I accepted Israeli Ambassador Dana Erlich 's credentials , I put it comments about Irish policy down to lack of experience , but then I saw later that it was part of a pattern to damage Ireland . " <p> Sa'ar responded to the comments on X , calling Higgins antisemitic and explaining Israeli actions in Lebanon , Syria and Gaza as Israel 's right to defend itself . He called the reference to Egypt " invented " and accused the Irish president of " spewing lies " . <p> Once an antisemitic liar - always an antisemitic liar . <p> Ireland 's President reached a new low , spewing lies that Israel " has breached the sovereignty of three of his neighbors , in relation to Lebanon , Syria and would like in fact to have a settlement in Egypt . " <p> Chief Rabbi of Ireland Yoni Wieder also criticised Higgins ' allegation calling the claim " totally baseless " in a statement to the JC . <p> Rabbi Wieder said , " I had to listen to this clip three times before I could be sure I had n't misheard him . Where did he get this from ? Israel has honoured its peace treaty with Egypt for 45 years and has never shown any desire to violate Egyptian sovereignty . <p> " It 's baffling that he made such a claim , and it 's equally baffling that national broadcasters do n't give a fact check when reporting on such statements . <p> " The result is that a significant portion of the Irish public now see this baseless accusation as fact . We 've seen these sorts of baseless accusations against Israel here before in recent months . It does nothing for peace or for constructive dialogue , and it 's this kind of thing that explains why the Israeli foreign ministry decided to close their embassy in Ireland . " <p> Last week Sunday , Sa'ar ordered the closure of the Israeli embassy in Ireland , citing " antisemitic actions and rhetoric " and a pattern of promoting anti-Israel media narratives . The decision came shortly after the Irish government approved a proposal to join in South Africa 's genocide case against Israel at the International Court of Justice in The Hague .
