<h> Woman dies after being set on fire on New York City subway <p> The incident occurred on Sunday morning at around 7.30 a.m. when the unidentified victim was asleep on board a stationary F train at the Coney Island-Stillwell Avenue subway station . <p> A suspect was arrested later in the day . <p> According to the New York Police Department , the unidentified male approached the woman and lit her on fire using a lighter before leaving the train . <p> New York City Crime Commissioner Jessica Tisch told reporters Sunday night that the man had committed " one of the most depraved crimes one person could possibly commit against another human being . " <p> A man was taken into custody after a woman was set on fire on a New York subway car ( NYPD ) <p> The woman had become " fully engulfed in a matter of seconds " Tisch said , adding that officers had been alerted by smoke and extinguished the flames with the help of a MTA employee . Graphic footage of the incident circulated on social media appeared to show fire coming out of the car while horrified bystanders looked on . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> The woman was pronounced dead at the scene by first responders . She was found with liquor bottles surrounding her , though it was not immediately clear if they played any part in the fire , sources told the New York Post . <p> The incident occurred aboard an F train at Coney Island-Stilwell subway station on Sunday morning ( FNTV ) <p> An MTA worker told the outlet that it looked like the woman 's clothes were completely " burned off . " <p> The NYPD later released a photo of the suspect , who is described as a male between 25 and 30 years old , approximately five foot six , and weighs 150 pounds . He was last seen wearing a gray hooded sweatshirt , blue jeans , dark-colored knitted hat with a red stripe , and brown boots . <p> A man was taken into custody as a person of interest after police received a tip off from three New York high school students who recognized the description and called 911 , Tisch said . <p> The suspect was apprehended after three New York high school students recognized the description and contacted the NYPD ( NYPD ) <p> The suspect was confirmed to be on a moving train , which was stopped after police radioed ahead . The man was also found with a lighter in his pocket . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Little information was available about the suspect , and the identity of the victim was not released . <p> It was later discovered that the individual had not fled the scene after the incident but had stayed at the station and had been captured on police bodycam footage by one of the attending officers . <p> " I want to thank the young people who called 911 to help , " Tisch said . " They saw something , and they said something and they did something . This is another example of great technology and even greater , old fashioned police work with a huge assist from the public . " <p> Police have launched a murder investigation after a woman was set on fire while on a subway train in New York . New York City Police Commissioner , Jessica Tisch , said a man suspected to have set the woman on fire stayed at the scene and was spotted on a police body-worn camera while sitting on a bench at the station . The incident was one of two deaths on a New York subway on Sunday . <p> New York City Police announced Sunday they have in custody a " person of interest " in the early morning death of a woman who they believe may have fallen asleep on a stationary subway train before being intentionally lit on fire by a man she did n't know . " New Yorkers came through again , " said New York City Police Commissioner Jessica Tisch , who described the case as " one of the most depraved crimes one person could possibly commit against another human being . " Tisch said the suspect and the woman , both of whom have not been identified , were riding a subway train to the end of the line in Brooklyn at around 7:30 a.m . <p> A dead man was discovered in the rear seat of a Houston Police Department patrol car over the weekend , prompting an investigation into how the body got there , authorities said Sunday . The body was discovered at about 2:30 p.m. local time on Saturday in a police cruiser that had been parked outside a city-run drug and alcohol treatment center northeast of downtown Houston , according to police . " An officer with our Mental Health Division went to his patrol vehicle to begin his shift and discovered a deceased male in the back seat , " the Houston Police Department said in a statement . <p> Leader of the House of Commons Lucy Powell says the government will be looking at " bringing in new legislation " to strengthen rules on political donations following reports that billionaire Elon Musk is to make a large donation to Reform UK . <p> Louisiana 's prison system routinely holds people weeks and months after they have completed their sentences , the U.S. Department of Justice alleged in a lawsuit filed Friday . The suit against the state of Louisiana follows a multiyear investigation into what federal officials say is a pattern of " systemic overdetention " that violates inmates ' rights and costs taxpayers millions of dollars a year . DOJ alleges that since at least 2012 , more than a quarter of the people due to be released from Louisiana prisons have instead been held past their release dates . <p> Gaza 's civil defence agency said on Sunday that Israeli strikes killed at least 35 Palestinians across the territory , more than 14 months into the Israel-Hamas war.Late on Sunday , the civil defence agency said seven people were killed when Israeli drones struck tents in the humanitarian area of Al-Mawasi in western Khan Yunis , while the Israeli military said it had targeted a " Hamas terrorist " .
