<h> Labour 's treatment of Waspi women is nothing short of despicable <h> Labour 's treatment of Waspi women is despicable <p> The UK Government announced Waspi women would not receive compensation ( Image : Supplied ) <p> LAST week , a number of the Ayrshire Waspi women met with Elaine Stewart , MP for Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock , to express their anger and disappointment in the Labour Party for failing to follow the Ombudsman 's recommendations and award Waspi women compensation for injustice suffered by DWP failings . <p> The ombudsman 's report was issued in March 2024 after six years of investigation into why the DWP failed to provide adequate notice of changes to state pension age for women born in the 1950s . <p> At the meeting , Ms Stewart informed the women that she only became aware of the Government 's decision to ignore the ombudsman 's recommendations when it was announced by Liz Kendall , Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , in Parliament . <p> Ms Stewart stated that she understood how angry and insulted the Waspi women felt and she agreed to ask Liz Kendall for a meeting to put forward our case for compensation and reversing the Government 's decision . <p> The Labour Government made an unprecedented political choice to ignore the clear recommendations of an independent watchdog which recommended that Parliament urgently compensate the Waspi women . <p> This leaves the Waspi women also asking what the point of an ombudsman is , if the Government can simply ignore their findings . <p> One Waspi woman stated that the Labour Party were lying , untrustworthy hypocrites . Another woman was furious that the Government has let her down , especially after promising full support while in opposition . She also questioned why they have so far failed to go after the real crooks who fraudulently claimed money for inadequate PPE . <p> The Ayrshire Waspi group members are shocked and disgusted by the Labour Party politicians who have , over the years while in opposition , given the Waspi women their continuing and unswerving support for their campaign for compensation and justice . Now that they are in office , they have turned their backs on us in the most cynical and cruel way imaginable . <p> On questioning from the Waspi women , Ms Stewart confirmed that she feels strongly enough about our injustice that she would go against the whip and support the Waspi women 's claim for fair and just compensation , should there be a Commons debate and vote . <p> All the Waspi women present ( none of whom had received the letters notifying them of the changes to their state pension age ) thanked her for her support and asked to be kept informed on how Ms Stewart 's meeting/communication goes with Liz Kendall . <p> JACKIE Baillie telling us that the UK Government 's decision not to compensate Waspi women was wrong and saying that a compromise " could have been found to assist those that suffered the most " has more holes in it than the hapless Titanic gored to oblivion by an iceberg , bad design and its incompetent crew . The Waspi issue is that iceberg , the pension changes were badly and unfairly designed and the British Westminster government is the incompetent crew . <p> In a politics with any shred of honour , there can be no question that the compensation judged appropriate by the ombudsman should be met in full by the Government . Failure to do so reveals that ombudsmen are merely a bureaucratic mechanism to filter out complaints and not resolve them with any integrity for the complainant . <p> It is preposterous that politicians like Baillie , trying in vain to salvage any degree of political integrity , should " believe " that it is in any way acceptable to " assist " some of the complainants and not others . How can there possibly be any portioning of this injustice that is acceptable ; to cut some from the herd to make it somehow financially manageable when the injustice applies equally across the board ? These women were either treated badly or not , and we know they were . Everyone in the group should be properly compensated . <p> What this case highlights is the utmost duplicity ( again ) of this Labour Government . By claiming support for Waspi women before the election and ditching their claims once in power , it shows the callous disregard Labour have for so-called political integrity in our alleged " democracy " . <p> Just the latest example of the illusion they created to get elected , the reality is their true electoral intent was deliberately omitted from their manifesto which we all know had it been revealed they would never have been elected to government . They lied and conned us to get elected , we were cheated . Just like the denial of the right of Scots to determine their own future -- British democracy has been revealed as a sham . <p> If there was a scintilla of respect and decency in politics , those who supported the Waspi women -- along with those who did not support withdrawing the Winter Fuel Payment and who claim to want to reduce child poverty but retain the two-child cap and other issues -- should resign from the Labour Party immediately and preferably also their seats in the parliaments . But , of course , they wo n't . They 'd need a sense of honour to do that which we are increasingly seeing is non-existent . <p> If it is the job of this government to clean up the mess of its predecessors then like the blood and Post Office scandals , these claims should be compensated across the board . Previous governments have been found out , and justice demands it be fully and properly dealt with . And are n't we all sick and fed up of hearing about a convenient black hole as the excuse not to do something red-Tory Starmer and Reeves do n't want to do ? <p> Justice demands Waspi compensation be done . It needs done . Just get it done . Or get out . <p> Jim Taylor , Scotland <p> I HEARTILY agree with Owen Jones 's description of the BBC reporting on Israel and Gaza ( December 20 ) . There is no doubt they are supporting Israel , and the biased and unrelenting one-sided reporting is a crime against journalism and a fair and free press . <p> The BBC tells us Scots constantly that its reporting is unbiased and fair -- not from where I am standing . The reporting of health issues , waiting lists etc is so biased it is almost laughable . In England , no health secretary is doorstepped or interviewed -- information calmly given -- in Scotland , they will chase ministers in the corridors of Holyrood and report in crisis mode . <p> One " reporter " was inches from the previous first minister , jabbing his finger at him . He deserved to be escorted from the building , but in Scotland , he is more likely to be promoted . <p> Just a few days ago , Labour in Westminster refused the Waspi women their compensation and Labour in Scotland were nowhere to be seen . No-one was chasing them in Holyrood or bringing them to the BBC studios . They needed time , of course , to get their spin in order before interviewing them . Even the red tops here put anything but Waspi information on the front page -- the protecting of Labour was in full swing . <p> So if Owen Jones thinks the BBC is biased about Israel , then he wants to come to Scotland and see how polished they are up here at biased reporting -- all in the name of fairness , you see . <p> Last week in Parliament , a Labour MP complained about the thousands of people in Scotland waiting for two years for treatment while in England it is only a few hundred -- without , of course , telling us that the figures in England are not calculated in the same way as Scotland , and this is like comparing apples and oranges . <p> Then Keir Starmer himself stands up and tells us that house-building in Scotland has " ground to a halt " , so I must be imagining things when out and about and seeing building work and building sites working away . Meanwhile , the First Minister tells us that there 's more social housing built in Scotland per head of population than anywhere else in the UK . I know who I believe . <p> Labour lied to get into power and are now so proficient and unashamed that they just give us more of the same . Just watch what has happened . Labour in Westminster do not take away the two-child cap , Labour in Scotland are not happy . Labour in Westminster take away Winter Fuel Payments from pensioners , Labour in Scotland are not happy . Waspi women are given no compensation , Labour in Scotland are not happy -- but they do it anyway . Scottish Labour MPs toe the line just like they will when they come for free prescriptions and free tuition in Scotland . And Labour MPs will toe the line just like Sarwar and Baillie and their like do . Labour are not worthy of the name . <p> Winifred McCartney , Paisley <p> AOD ? N Hill ( Letters , Dec 19 ) made a number of points which I must address . <p> Blaming immigration for a housing crisis is a tired old xenophobic trope . The real culprit is decades of underinvestment and market deregulation . <p> The ghost of Thatcher still haunts our housing market . Classical economists like Adam Smith and David Ricardo would argue that the issue lies in the misallocation of resources and the role of rent in the economy . Ricardo , for instance , introduced the concept of economic rent , which is the payment to the owner of land or other natural resources for its use . This rent is considered unearned income because it arises from the value of the land , not from any productive effort by the owner . <p> Neoliberalism is n't some abstract bogeyman . It 's a real-world ideology that has gutted public housing and turned homes into commodities . The current government 's policies are a textbook case of neoliberal failure . Classical economists distinguished between earned and unearned income . Earned income comes from productive activities , such as labour and capital investment , while unearned income , like economic rent , comes from ownership of scarce resources . This distinction is crucial in understanding how neoliberal policies have exacerbated the housing crisis by prioritising profit over public good . <p> The SNP and Greens are not the problem . They 're trying to mitigate the damage caused by decades of Tory austerity . If anyone is to blame , look no further than Westminster . The focus should be on addressing the systemic issues that have led to the housing crisis , such as the concentration of land ownership and the speculative nature of the housing market . Classical economists like John Stuart Mill argued that landowners should not benefit disproportionately from the increase in land value , which is often a result of societal progress rather than individual effort . <p> Building more houses is a good start , but we need to ensure they 're affordable and not just luxury flats for the wealthy . We also need to tackle the root causes of the crisis , like tax avoidance and corporate greed . By addressing these issues , we can move towards a more equitable housing market where homes are seen as a basic human right rather than a commodity for profit . This approach aligns with the classical economic view that unearned income , such as economic rent , should be minimised to promote fairness and efficiency in the economy . <h> Why are you making commenting on The National only available to subscribers ? <p> We know there are thousands of National readers who want to debate , argue and go back and forth in the comments section of our stories . We 've got the most informed readers in Scotland , asking each other the big questions about the future of our country . <p> Unfortunately , though , these important debates are being spoiled by a vocal minority of trolls who are n't really interested in the issues , try to derail the conversations , register under fake names , and post vile abuse . <p> So that 's why we 've decided to make the ability to comment only available to our paying subscribers . That way , all the trolls who post abuse on our website will have to pay if they want to join the debate -- and risk a permanent ban from the account that they subscribe with . <p> The conversation will go back to what it should be about -- people who care passionately about the issues , but disagree constructively on what we should do about them . Let 's get that debate started ! <p> Callum Baird , Editor of The National <h> Comments : Our rules <p> We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues . The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege , not a right , however , and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused. <h> follow us <p> This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation 's Editors ' Code of Practice . If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then please contact the editor here . If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact IPSO here
