<h> LATEST EDITORIAL <h> Opinion How we dodged the mushroom cloud in 2024 <h> MATTHEW ALFORD considers the principal four reasons there was n't a nuclear exchange this year , despite the Ukraine war , the carnage in the Middle East , the provocations over Taiwan -- and his best predictions <p> ? <h> This is the last article you can read this month <h> You can read more article this month <h> You can read more articles this month <h> Sorry your limit is up for this month <p> I MADE a bet in January this year that I 'd clean my horrible stairs if humanity did n't nuke itself by New Year 's 2025 , and throughout the year , I remained pretty confident I 'd never have to deliver . But it looks like I 'm breaking out Henry Hoover . <p> How did it all go so wrong for my never-cleaning plan ? In a year of catastrophic violence on the borders of Russia and across the Middle East , how have we escaped the terminus that is the mushroom cloud ? There are four main reasons . <p> Firstly , the relative restraint of Iran , Russia and China . We can quibble about Russia , which has been the most aggressive of the three . For sure , Iran , though , has had casus belli to hit Israel fatally but has opted instead for demonstration strikes . <p> China , for its part , has not been drawn into a much-anticipated fight on the Taiwan Straits or in the South China Sea . These are perhaps the most serious flashpoints in the world -- because if China did mobilise , the US would n't be able to do much except slink away or threaten to use nukes . <p> Second : no stupid accidents . Battlefield mistakes happen with alarming frequency , and we 're due one any day . Memorably , due to a silly mix-up , Russia nearly blew up 30 RAF personnel in 2022 . They would have done so had the airman 's missile not miraculously jammed in its bay . If such a fatality occurs , we will be lethally engaged with Russia . <p> Third : Donald Trump won the election . Many of Trump 's colleagues are hawks , but he has an instinct for moderation in foreign policy . It 's hard to know how important Trump himself has been to our survival these past few weeks , but his presence may have been crucial . <p> For instance , on December 11 , Ukraine fired six US Atacms against an airbase outside the Russian city of Taganrog . Russian authorities immediately signalled that they were preparing to respond with several Oreshnik missiles -- Moscow 's lightning-speed new missile system that can carry a nuclear payload . <p> However , the next day , Trump emphatically declared he was " vehemently opposed " to the use of Atacms , which he has characterised as " foolish . " On December 13 , Russia retaliated -- but without Oreshnik . <p> Fourth , the West is just a bunch of preening bullies who are fine with seeing foreigners die . It might be that people in power are a little less reckless and dumb than I feared at the beginning of 2024 ... and a little more calculating and cruel . <p> Let me expand on this fourth point because it 's not just vital for understanding why we remain alive but also why we continue to threaten everybody and everything . <p> Fighting . It 's a great way to feel tough . To gain popularity . To serve your corporate masters . Joe Biden explicitly thinks having a scrap is a good thing to do -- remember those weird stories about Corn Pop and his threat to beat up Trump behind the bike sheds ? <p> In practice , though , Biden has remained conscious not to provoke Russian or Iranian retaliation . For instance , the White House leaked Ukrainian President Zelensky 's request for the most sophisticated Tomahawk missile systems , thereby implicitly ridiculing the idea . <p> Similarly , although Western powers approved the use of long-range missiles and F-16s in the closing months of 2024 , their usage has , like the long-range missiles , been quite limited , intercepted -- and , as noted above , opposed by the president-elect . <p> It 's gross and intriguing to see as the Ukraine war has waned in popularity , its tub thumpers shifted . " Uncensored " host Piers Morgan shifted his bellicose rhetoric the other day to say that " it 's all very well to be idealistic but ... " Remarkably , it took just a few words of " never surrender " from General Wesley Clarke , and Morgan was back to his usual nonsense . But his uncompromising line had broken for the first time on screen . <p> More sophisticated is Niall Ferguson , the right-wing historian . In his latest debate , Ferguson says we should have had a negotiated peace with Russia back in 2022 . Absolutely , Niall ! Could n't agree more , Niall ! <p> But look how he frames this -- he says Biden made " numerous blunders " because he believed " it was in America 's interests to see the war prolonged . " Hmm , well , firstly , why would you defend a president who 's so vile as to think that deliberately prolonging a war would be the right thing to do ? And note -- not in Ukrainians ' interests ; in the US 's interests . <p> Quite beyond this , though , for Ferguson to think the US follows its " national interest " is kind of ... babyish . In the debate , the author of Provoked , Scott Horton , points to public choice theory , which assumes that countries operate on behalf of their constituent interests , not for abstract reasons of benevolent patriotism . Frankly , if you do n't understand that 's the standard way things work , you 're living in a fairy tale like these other twerps . <p> So , when Ferguson says the West has disastrously armed Ukraine just enough not to lose but not enough to win , he 's dead right . He thinks this is a tragic error or weakness . <p> In reality , we know it is a deliberate , cynical imperial policy . The war was always designed to " weaken Russia " and kill their soldiers , while there was never any intention to give Ukraine the security guarantees it keeps begging for . <p> Casualty figures have been twisted in numerous sneaky ways , notably by officials only ever releasing confusing and partial stats ( " military casualties , " " civilian deaths , " etc ) , but from what I can tell , there are well over a million casualties in each theatre of conflict , with each death toll in the hundreds of thousands . I made the case earlier this year that Gaza will ultimately be in the top five worst genocides of modern times . <p> So , there is ultimately some consensus between pro and anti-war positions . But the difference between anti-war types like me and people like Biden , Ferguson , and Morgan is that we anticipate what will happen based on the best evidence and expert testimony , whereas they strike a macho posture for as long as possible based on what they think they can get away with . <p> So brave . So very , very brave . <p> Well , I may have lost my bet , but Biden still has a few weeks to wreck everything . And then we have Trump . My betting days are done for now -- but 2025 could well be the year !
