<h> How Biden 's plan to ' combat Islamophobia ' whitewashes US state violence <p> More than a year after the US-backed genocide in Gaza , the recent strategy guide is the administration 's final act of violence against Arab and Muslim communities <p> Community members attend a vigil for six-year-old Palestinian-American Wadea al-Fayoume , who was killed in an attack allegedly fuelled by Islamophobia , on 17 October 2023 in Plainfield , Illinois ( Scott Olson/AFP ) <p> On 12 December , the White House released a strategy guide to combat Islamophobia and anti-Arab hate . <p> The strategy guide opens with a statement from US President Joe Biden lamenting the killing of Wadea al-Fayoume , a six-year-old Palestinian-American Muslim boy who was allegedly killed by his landlord in October 2023 when Israel 's American-backed genocide of Palestinians had just begun . <p> Likening the present climate in the US to the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks , in which Muslims , Arabs and South Asians were targeted , Biden 's condemnations make ambiguous the cause of the violence directed at these communities and the role of the state in marginalising them in the first place . <p> Lauding himself , the lame-duck president asserts that such discriminatory policies are wrong and that this was the reason he rescinded the travel ban on his first day in office . <h> New MEE newsletter : Jerusalem Dispatch <h> Sign up to get the latest insights and analysis on Israel-Palestine , alongside Turkey Unpacked and other MEE newsletters <p> Condemning this policy further , he states that the Muslim ban was " a stain on our national conscience and inconsistent with our long history of welcoming people of all faiths and backgrounds " . <p> What Biden leaves out , however , is an executive order he signed in June that relied on a regulation from the ban to restrict asylum seekers at the US-Mexico border . <p> The White House strategy guide is simply the latest manifestation of the Biden administration 's superficial and mostly symbolic engagement with Muslim communities . <p> It deliberately treats both hate crimes and state violence as aberrations from the norm , thus allowing for a particular set of policy interventions that ignore root causes and fail to address the problem of Islamophobia and anti-Arab hate meaningfully . <h> Who ' deserves ' to die ? <p> Preserving American mythology about the character of the US , Biden writes in the guide 's opening that " we must realise the dream upon which this country was founded : that freedom and opportunity are for everyone " . <p> Such claims are belied by the historical and ongoing legacy of genocide , marginalisation , exclusion and brutality of this settler-colonial state . But the violence of this mythology is that it continues to be deployed today despite its blatant mendacity . <p> Biden states that " history teaches that hate never fully goes away ; it only hides until it is given just a little oxygen " . <p> The guide 's framing attempts to paint violence as rooted in some mysterious antagonism towards members of these groups <p> Yet this wholly removes the role of the state in giving hate oxygen . The fact that this guide came out after 14 months of his administration 's full-throttled support for Israel 's genocide of Palestinians and perpetuation of the " war on terror " are illustrative examples . <p> When Joseph Czuba allegedly waged his deadly attack on Wadea and his mother , he reportedly shouted : " You Muslims have to die ! " Not long after , reports emerged that Czuba was " obsessed with the Israel-Hamas war " , allegedly telling Wadea 's mother , who was severely injured , that " Palestinians do n't deserve to live " . <p> While the strategy guide decries such physical attacks on Americans ( ostensibly on US soil ) based on " who they are " , it omits the government 's justifications for Israel 's slaughter in Gaza which , in effect , share Czuba 's alleged position that Palestinians do not deserve to live . <p> The guide 's framing attempts to paint violence as rooted in some mysterious antagonism towards members of these groups . But no one is targeted simply because of " who they are " devoid of any context ; they are targeted because of the construction of who they are thought to be . <p> Domestically , the US government routinely targets Palestinians , Arabs and Muslims based on " who they are " , whom it has defined as irredeemable , violent , inherently rageful and perpetrators of " terrorism " , among other demonising tropes . <h> Fallacy <p> The state 's theoretical desire to combat hate violence , as demonstrated by this guide , is strategically insidious . <p> By seeking to challenge the occurrence of hate violence , the state can promote the facade that it exists as an objective adjudicator of justice that is committed to the equal protection of its citizens . <p> Twenty-three years after 9/11 , Muslim victims of US violence deserve justice <p> Biden 's statement in the guide that " standing up against anti-Muslim hate is essential to who we are as a country founded on freedom and justice for all " is an emblematic example of this fallacy . <p> Not only do such claims minimise state violence towards many of the same groups it claims to be protecting against hate crimes , but they also seek to misguide and placate targeted communities by convincing them that the government is genuinely interested in their safety and well-being . <p> The Biden administration 's continued criminal targeting of these communities domestically as it facilitates the mass killing of their brethren overseas not only exposes the bald-faced hypocrisy of this guide but also insults community members ' intelligence . <p> In addition , far from changing course in the global " war on terror " , Biden has perpetuated it by conducting " counterterrorism " operations in several Muslim-majority countries , including drone strikes and special operation raids in Afghanistan , where he claimed the war was over , and Africom 's bombing of Somalia . <p> The state naturally has a vested interest in exculpating itself from the occurrence of hate crimes . This makes it even more crucial to understand its role in societal violence against marginalised groups . <p> In their essay on the role of the state and media in inspiring violence against Muslims since 9/11 , political scientist Scott Poynting and right-wing extremism expert Barbara Perry write that " in declining adequately to recognise and to act against hate crime , and in actually modelling anti-Muslim bias by practising discrimination and institutional racism through ' ethnic targeting ' , ' racial profiling ' and the like , the state conveys a sort of ideological licence to individuals , groups and institutions to perpetrate and perpetuate racial hatred " . <p> But even if hate crimes were adequately recognised , the deployment of this framework is still problematic , as scholar Sherene Razack explains . <p> In her article , Razack writes that " there is obvious political capital to be gained by employing hate as analytic , capital related to the work hate performs in turning our gaze away from the structural and from historical injustice and towards the psychosocial and even the biological " . <p> She further argues that using hate as an analytical tool " establishes the innocence of the state and of dominant collectivities " . <h> Flawed framework <p> When Vice-President Kamala Harris first announced the development of " the country 's first National Strategy to Counter Islamophobia " in November 2023 - a month into Israel 's genocidal war on Gaza - she noted the increase in " anti-Palestinian , anti-Arab , antisemitic and Islamophobic incidents across America " . <p> Still , she attributed the uptick in hate to " the result of the Hamas terrorist attack in Israel and the humanitarian crisis in Gaza " . Of course , the narrative that she carefully deployed here was meant to emphasise Israelis as victims of a known entity - Hamas - while Palestinians , on the other hand , could only be victims of something like a natural disaster . <p> With a fundamentally flawed framework , the guide offers little to nothing in the way of concrete measures to change the material conditions of Palestinians , Arabs , and Muslims <p> Coupled with a fixation on 7 October as the origin story placing Hamas as the actual instigators of the " conflict " , not only does this narrative dehumanise Palestinians , but it also makes the state violence inflicted by Israel and the United States illegible . Rendering state violence illegible in this way serves as another pathway through which the framework of hate can circumvent any understanding of institutional and structural forces at play . <p> This approach has defined this strategy guide . <p> With a fundamentally flawed framework through which to address Islamophobia and anti-Arab hatred , the guide offers little to nothing in the way of concrete measures that will yield changes in the material conditions of Palestinians , Arabs and Muslims . <p> This is despite the fact that the guide offers more than 100 " executive actions " in addition to 100 other actions meant to address issues such as bullying and employment discrimination . <p> But to provide these actions and recommendations while remaining the primary source of institutionalised Islamophobia is nonsensical - and even if the guide had made recommendations aimed internally that would actually address state violence at its core , it would basically amount to the fox guarding the hen house . <h> Symbolic gestures <p> Delving into a few examples of actions also reveals the symbolism in which these gestures are rooted . <p> One executive action is re-establishing the position of liaison to Muslim communities within the White House Office of Public Engagement . <p> US Muslims do n't need a White House Muslim liaison . They need an end to state violence <p> However , as I previously argued , rather than creating any meaningful engagement with the Muslim community - to whatever extent that is even possible - it appoints a colonised interlocutor to parrot and promote the views and actions of the administration , if not obfuscate its sheer violence . <p> Since its creation , the position has done nothing to advance the rights of Muslims as it was , in fact , designed to subdue them . <p> The guide also celebrates Biden 's " achievement " as the first US president to recognise the annual " International Day to Combat Islamophobia " on 15 March . <p> Setting aside the fact that the United Nations only declared this day of observance in 2022 - making Biden the only sitting president who could commemorate it - what matters more is to implement policies that actually address the violence and root causes of Islamophobia . <p> Finally , in the section addressing religious freedom and accommodations to students , the guide attempts to show its support for free speech in the context of the campus protests earlier this year to end Israel 's genocide . <p> According to the guide , " President Biden has made it clear that there are two fundamental principles that must be respected during these protests : ' The first is the right to free speech and for people to assemble and make their voices heard peacefully . The second is the rule of law . Both must be upheld . ' " <p> If free speech , however , were an actual principle that the Biden-Harris administration wanted to protect , then it would have refrained from embracing the IHRA definition of antisemitism , which explicitly equates criticism of Israel with antisemitism . <h> ' Final hurrah ' <p> With a month to go before Trump 's inauguration and over 400 days into Israel 's US-backed genocide , this guide is too little , too late . <p> Not only does the framing of the guide preclude the possibility of any meaningful action to combat anti-Muslim and anti-Arab hatred , but the guide itself exists against the backdrop of unrelenting state violence targeting these very communities . <p> The guide itself exists against the backdrop of unrelenting state violence targeting these very communities <p> If anything , it would be more appropriate to read it as a tone-deaf administration 's final hurrah in inflicting violence - this time symbolically by performing care and concern for the communities that have been demonised and criminalised over the last four years . <p> While this guide does n't accomplish much of anything , it does succeed in further cementing Biden 's legacy as a war criminal and , now , a core part of the genealogy of the war on terror , which he staunchly supported even in his final days . <p> There is an Arabic proverb that says : " They 'll kill you and then march in your funeral . " The Biden administration 's combatting Islamophobia guide is emblematic of precisely this . <p> Fortunately , many in the Palestinian , Arab and Muslim communities have refused to let this violence go unchecked because they know that it is not the government that will protect us ; it is our communities that will . <p> We are and will always be our best defence . <p> The views expressed in this article belong to the author and do not necessarily reflect the editorial policy of Middle East Eye . <p> Dr. Maha Hilal is a researcher and writer on institutionalised Islamophobia and author of the book Innocent Until Proven Muslim : Islamophobia , the War on Terror , and the Muslim Experience Since 9/11 . Her writings have appeared in Vox , Al Jazeera , Middle East Eye , Newsweek , Business Insider and Truthout , among others . She is the founding executive director of the Muslim Counterpublics Lab , an organizer with Witness Against Torture . She earned her doctorate in May 2014 from the Department of Justice , Law and Society at American University in Washington , DC . She received her Master 's Degree in Counseling and her Bachelor 's Degree in Sociology from the University of Wisconsin-Madison . <p> Middle East Eye delivers independent and unrivalled coverage and analysis of the Middle East , North Africa and beyond . To learn more about republishing this content and the associated fees , please fill out this form . More about MEE can be found here .
