<p> I STARTED painting icons in 2010 while a member of the Common Friars , a small monastic farming community in Ohio . My icons often mix classic orthodox iconographic imagery with figures representing the marginalised and the oppressed among us here and now . My image Refugees : La Sagra ? da Familia , in which the flight to Egypt is interpreted as Latinx immigrants crossing the desert , adorns the cover of Pope Francis 's book A Stranger and You Welcomed Me . <p> Another translation of the word " iconographer " I 've heard is " depicter of life " , which I like a lot . The Church simply engrafted that word into its life . For me , what it is to be a good artist is attempting to become a more present person . <p> After graduating from college , I ended up in Athens , Ohio , and was a part of a small farming community , growing vegetables and food for food pantries . Putting your hands in the soil and weeding a bed of carrots across from a complete stranger , and the conversations that came out of that . . . I learned that the way we use things in the world is of spiritual significance . <p> It was a transition away from a spirituality of transcendence . Leaving this world to go be with Jesus ( which is no way to live ) . It was more about engaging God in a physical incarnation in the world , about engagement , embodiment and communion , connection . If you 're looking for Jesus , go walk your neighbourhood and you will probably find him . It was a very profound time . <p> The focus of much of the iconography that I 'm doing is based on looking for Jesus in our current time . Jesus said that he is to be found in the least of these and those who suffer . In 2016 , when Trump was first elected , there was a lot scapegoating of immigrants ' being responsible for all the problems in America . This is unfortunately happening again . <p> Advertisement <p> My partner , Evie , asked : " What is an image we could make that would look like an icon but be the Holy Family today as Latinx asylum seekers or refugees , thinking about the flight into Egypt ? " And so , I painted La Sagrada Familia , showing a family fleeing in the desert under the cover of darkness . <p> The only nativity images I saw growing up were of a white Joseph , Mary , and Jesus surrounded by the usual peaceful starry night . Something serene , with no indication of the difficulty of childbirth . <p> Over the past several years , we have tried to look at where the Holy Family would be today . When I lived in the inner city of Chicago , I met many homeless individuals who lived under highway overpasses for shelter . The following year , I created an icon I called The Holy Family of the Streets , depicting a version of a family I saw one winter sheltering under an overpass . <p> During the pandemic , many families -- unable to work and make enough money -- were evicted from their homes and forced to live in " tent cities " . There was a large tent city near Downtown St Louis , Missouri , when we lived there . People living in harsh cold conditions , with nowhere to go because many shelters were either closed or at capacity . <p> Many people in the tent cities , however , were helping to support one another . This led to an icon called Tent City Nativity . In the image , you see a version of Downtown St Louis , the star of " Bethlehem " above , and , in a makeshift tent , the Holy Family , with the newborn Jesus . Instead of the three wise men bringing gifts , it is fellow unhoused people bringing gifts of coffee , a blanket , and some soup cooked over a fire . <p> We also tried to use these images to raise funds for individuals in tent cities , and refugee and migrant services . In 2023 , Red Letter Christians asked me if I could create a new icon , which was called Christ in the Rubble ( see cover ) , which illustrates the prophetic message that if Jesus was born today , he would be born " under the rubble " . <p> Over the past year , Red Letter Christians News , 11 January 2019 have sent more than $120,000 to Gaza and the West Bank for humanitarian relief and peacebuilding efforts . Individuals could receive a limited edition signed print of Christ in the Rubble , after donating $100 or more . The campaign raised more than $100,000 from more than 1000 individuals in less than a week . <p> Iconography has a rich and beautiful history and tradition . I now have a plethora of books of Orthodox and Byzantine iconography . When I get commissioned to create new icons , I am almost always looking back at the traditional icons . For Christ in the Rubble I looked at the traditional orthodox icons with buildings in them , and traced and included many of those different buildings in the icon , but , in this case , they were cracked or on fire . <p> In the traditional nativity icon , the Holy Family is in a cave . In the new icon , the " cave " is now the space where the holy family is sheltering , under the rubble . The Star of Bethlehem is now almost barely visible through smoke . <p> It 's always my hope that these icons can be viewed in communities . I have received a lot of push-back painting the Holy Family as people of colour , or as migrants and refugees . Icons can be a window to the divine , or to the life of Christ , Mary , and the saints . Icons can also be iconoclastic , however , as in " breaking images " , because there is something about the image of God that will always be resisted . There is something about the image of God that will always be crucified , because unfortunately we continue to crucify each other . <p> We continue to fail to see the " imago Dei " , the image of God , in one another . We need each other to help us see . When a community observes an icon that may make some people in that community uncomfortable , there is potential for some important conversations to happen . The word " communion " basically means " a mutual participation in " . A mutual participation of viewing art can lead us to new understandings of ourselves and our neighbours . It can lead to " a conversion of sight " As the artist of these icons , I hold out hope that people can open themselves to new images of God . <p> The Revd Hana Amner is Rector of St Mary 's , Dodleston , and All Saints ' , Higher Kinnerton , Chaplain of Bishops ' Blue Coat C of E High School , Chester , and an artist known as " Creative Priest " <p> I HAVE always been creative , but my art became noticed by others when I first began training to become a priest . I found the training process inaccessible in many ways ( it has come a long way since then ) . Coming from a working-class background , I did n't fit the traditional mould , but I discovered a deep passion for theology and a creative way to express it . <p> The Creative Priest " God with us " : A modern telling of the nativity by Hana Amner , the " Creative Priest " <p> I started illustrating theological concepts , because I recognised that studying theology is a privilege . I wanted to make these ideas accessible to everyone ; so I turned them into art . I 've never stopped . <p> Through my drawings , I 've worked to reimagine the true essence of the nativity story . For me , Mary and Joseph are refugees , walking down the high street , desperately seeking help . Having experienced homelessness myself , I know how it feels to be ignored by society , to feel invisible in your time of need . <p> In one of my illustrations , a homeless man offers his tent to the young couple . It 's followed by a moment in history , a pause , where all the people who had previously ignored them -- city workers , refuse collectors , everyone -- kneel before the newborn King Jesus . <p> I also see the wise men differently . In my artwork , they are young people , just hanging out . I believe the younger generation , with their openness and curiosity about spirituality , are often more in tune with what God is doing and willing to respond courageously . <p> Street art , for me , is a way to connect with people who would n't normally engage with the Church . By retelling the Christmas story in this way , I hope to share both the biblical message and the larger truth of Jesus among us . God is still with us -- that 's eternal . And that 's the purpose behind the art I create . <p> My faith has been integral to my art . When I came to know Jesus , at 17 , I struggled with the traditional rhythms of prayer and discipleship due to the chaos in my life at the time . Creativity became my way of connecting with God , using my imagination in prayer and scripture . Later , I discovered Ignatian spiritual practices , which influenced how I engage with faith through creativity . I use watercolours , line work , and layered compositions in my art , and then digital drawing to finalise it . <p> The nativity scenes I grew up with were very polished and neat -- also everyone was white . They did n't reflect the rawness and challenge of the story as I see it now . <p> I 'm drawn to Bible stories that we think we already know inside out . The nativity , for example , is often told without much theological depth . We overlook details like the time it took for the magi to arrive , or the real struggles Mary and Joseph faced . I wanted to dig deeper and present a more grounded , challenging interpretation . <p> Over the years , my work has found its way into people 's homes , on church walls , and is used in theological lectures and as reflective prayer materials . Right now , my focus is on school chaplaincy , and my first year as a rector . I 've been working creatively with students , however , which has been a wonderful way to integrate art into worship and everyday school life . In the future , I 'd love to illustrate books . <p> Last year , at Bishops ' Blue Coat High School , we created a drama piece inspired by my nativity art for Chester Cathedral 's carol service . The students brought the artwork to life , imagining Mary and Joseph as refugees today , ignored by Christmas shoppers and helped only by a homeless man . It highlighted the generosity of those who have little , and challenged the audience to reconsider how they would respond . <p> I want people to feel inspired to reimagine scripture and consider its relevance in their own context . Jesus 's life and ministry turned cultural norms upside down and inside out , just as it did more than 2000 years ago . I hope my work encourages viewers to ask what Jesus would be doing today , to challenge us to live the life he calls us to . <p> I 'M NEVER really sure whether to describe myself as an artist ; I loved art as a child , but fell out of the habit for a long time . I 'm so glad I rediscovered how much I love painting , and it 's becoming a more and more important part of my life . <p> I 've been ordained for over 20 years , which has included time in parish ministry , as a chaplain , as a children 's minister , and working in theological education . <p> Ally BarrettFrom Women of the Nativity by Paula Gooder <p> The process by which I make art is very closely related to my faith : I experience painting as " quality attention paying " , which is spiritual and theological and embodied in nature . When making religious art I am very aware of how the process of painting makes me ask different questions of biblical texts and theology , and allows different resonances and connections to emerge . <p> The first nativity painting I did as an adult was a huge depiction of Mary breastfeeding . I was working in theological education , and it was the first year for a long time when Christmas was n't the busiest time of year , but I was very tired after a very demanding term ; so I shut myself in a room on Christmas Eve and painted all day . I think this was the moment I realised how important painting might be for my spiritual and general well-being . <p> The painting became all about Jesus 's tiny starfish-like hand resting on Mary 's breast to get the milk flowing , and her completely focused gaze on him . I 'd breastfed both my children , and I think I was drawn to painting a really personal , human picture of my relationship with Christ . As a reference image for Mary , I used a photograph of a Syrian refugee from a charity page . <p> I generally work in acrylic paint . It dries quickly ; so mistakes can be painted over , which suits my quite amateur process . I have also dabbled in making my own paint : I gathered charcoal and charred wood from the Easter fire , ground it in a pestle and mortar , and mixed it with acrylic gesso , and used this to paint a piet ? and a Stabat Mater . <p> The paint was very unruly , with lumps and bumps , and little splinters , which were very tangible as I also chose to use my fingers to paint both images . I found it very moving ( emotionally and spiritually ) to work with the paint with my fingertips in depicting the body of Jesus in his mother 's arms . It was a very embodied experience for me , and it made me think afresh about how , as a priest , I start every Lent with an act of finger painting . Dust and ashes hold together life and death , sin and forgiveness , creation and destruction . I 'd love to paint a complete set of stations of the cross and of the resurrection using the Easter Fire paint . <p> I do n't usually sell my paintings , but I try not to keep them either : when they find a home their new owner is encouraged to make a donation to a charity that 's important to them or that 's connected with the subject matter . A few are in churches or cathedrals ; many have found a home with individuals . Some are for book illustrations . Increasingly I am fulfilling commissions ; so I already know where they 'll be going . I like the idea that they 're out there doing good in some way . <p> I feel that there is more than enough " white Jesus " and " white Mary " in the world ; so I 've tried to paint more diverse images , and connecting the holy family and nativity story with current situations in the world . People are sometimes surprised , but nobody 's ever really objected . <p> When looking at my take on the nativity , I 'd like the viewer to feel invited in , to connect what they are seeing with their own experiences ( in life and faith ) , and to pay attention to the story in new ways . I guess I 'd like them to feel something of the love of God in Christ . <p> ' I want the viewer to talk about the reality of other people 's Christmas ' <p> Pete Codling is a contemporary artist based in Portsmouth <p> DRAWING has always been a big part of my life , and who I am as a person . I like the notion that everything I create is all one lifelong large drawing , and only finished when I am . <p> Certainly , there is a lot of faith involved in the creation of art and the belief in why you are making these artworks . I grew up a Catholic , with all the aesthetics , beauty , and magic associated with that . But with age and education I also grew uncomfortably into the knowledge of the Crusades , the Inquisition , the missionaries , and colonialism , the disparity and inequality illustrated by charities for starving African children , the child abuse on our own doorstep , and the mega corporate business and branding of God , and of other people 's gods , and the similarities between all the " other " religions . <p> The family Christmas tree and decorations would go up on or around my birthday , 15 December . Being the " artistic child " , I would oversee the nativity scene and arranging the figurines , making a diorama known as a Bel ? n ( Bethlehem ) , or cr ? che , with an open shed or cave made from a shoe box and twigs . I have fond memories of those toy-size classic figurines . <p> Pete CodlingNativity by Pete Codling <p> I was not aware until a bit later in life of the awkwardness of the light-pink-skinned , blonde-haired , blue-eyed baby Jesus and his white family and friends . It was saved only by the mysterious singular beauty of the ebony face and black hands of one of the wise men , or magi . <p> I grew up in the ' 70s and ' 80s in working-class England . It simply was n't questioned , in the same way that the biblical stories , however grand and magical , were not to be questioned -- as someone much cleverer than you and your family believed in them for a good enough reason . Becoming an artist is , or at least should be , the antipathy of all that . <p> On Christmas Eve , at midnight mass , or Christmas morning , going to " see " the baby Jesus , with near-half-life size realistic figures -- the same size as me -- that seemed to have so much more presence . They had a beauty , clearly carved and cast from true artistic vision , and therefore somehow imbued with some kind of magic . To me , at least , in that time of childhood " na ? vety " , they seemed to be my first notion of " art " , or at least " sculpture " or statues , in scale and quality , rather than toys . <p> Advertisement <p> This drawing was created in response to what was happening in December 2015 , a new form of Christmas television entertainment , in Syria . It was perhaps the first time a 24-hour news commentary was run on the destruction and fall of Aleppo , acclaimed as one of the oldest of cities in the world . <p> Unfortunately , the war-torn city image is universal , so could be any " theatre of war " . It juxtaposes all the religions : the godlike figures in the sky refer vaguely to an ancient Islamic depiction of Allah with a head of flames , and the traditional old white male notion of a Christian God . Like Santa , St Nicholas and his pagan counterparts . A nice old white guy . <p> Other stakeholders or characters , for example in the nativity drawing , are the three magi being represented by the West , the Middle East , and the United Nations , all holding their mobile phones up -- it is not clear if they are taking photos , searching for a signal , awaiting a message , or sharing the horrors online . The traditional manger or crib of the Christ-child is a flat-screen TV , reflecting the news -- perhaps news of a second coming , or the Armageddon preceding . A humble Mary and Joseph kneel around it . <p> This drawing won first prize in the 2016 Chaiya Art Awards . It inspired the next body of work , the Na ? vety Drawings , that have full-size characters from the nativity . The Holy Cow and the Donkey from this series won the London Biennale 2021 . <p> On the whole , I have had an overwhelmingly positive response to the work , and people are happy to engage in the conversations it sparks with other viewers . I want people to recognise the main characters , but to hold their thoughts on the context I have placed them in , the battlefield ruins of the city , for example , or the symbolism and references I have used from art history , mythology , and politics . <p> I want the viewer to stop and think , to talk about the reality of other people 's Christmas . Even if they are n't celebrating this Christian festival , it has become an international season of good will , decoration , harmony , and holiday . It is perhaps a bit Dickensian in the Christmas Carol allegory , or , in some cases , hardcore satire or political cartooning of familiar iconography . It is my Christmas card to the world .
