<h> MY ACCOUNT <h> Joe Biden let us all down in 2024 <p> The tragedy of Biden is that he must shoulder much of the blame for letting Trump back into the White House <p> December 22 , 2024 4:12 pm ( Updated 6:37 pm ) <p> President Joe Biden speaks during a cabinet meeting at the White House in 2023 ( Photo : AP ) <p> cancel **31;1295;TOOLONG Share bookmark Save <p> share cancel **34;1328;TOOLONG <p> When Joe Biden took office as president of the United States , he insisted he was driven to run for the White House by the noble desire to preserve and protect democracy . In his inauguration speech , he vowed to " restore the soul of America " after the trauma of Donald Trump 's time in office , which ended with all that bogus talk of electoral theft and a mob attempting to stop the peaceful transfer of power . <p> Then in his first speech a few weeks later to a foreign audience , he said the world stood at an " inflection point " in the struggle between autocracy and freedom , declaring that his " galvanising mission " was to " demonstrate that democracy can still deliver for our people in this changed world " . <p> These were hopeful words for those of us sharing Biden 's fears over the future as liberal values come under sustained global attack . The veteran Washington insider , taking office at a time of turbulence , seemed to understand the interwoven nature of threats to democracy as it came under attack both within his own borders and around the world from a burgeoning alliance of brutal dictatorships . <p> This stance contrasted with the complacency of his counterparts in London , Paris and Berlin , so frequently cavalier over the fragility of democracy and failing to see the need to keep fighting constantly for freedom . <p> Four years later , as Biden comes to the end of his solitary term of office and for all his fine words , there is only disappointment at the failure of this central mission . <p> The 46th president departs with a decent track record in many areas , most notably an economy that is powering ahead after the pandemic , and he managed to pass significant domestic measures despite deep tribal fissures in Washington . <p> Earlier this year , historians even ranked him as the 14th best holder of this office -- slightly ahead of Ronald Reagan and with his tarnished predecessor struck firmly in last place . Yet now Biden is going , Trump is returning seemingly bent on revenge for his downfall and the free world is watching on nervously . <p> His belated withdrawal after a bumbling debate performance meant there was no battle to succeed him that might have thrown up and tested strong contenders , resulting in a dismal candidate . We will never know if an alternative to Kamala Harris -- such as Gretchen Whitmer , the governor of Michigan , or transport secretary Pete Buttigieg -- could have beaten Trump . Perhaps the legacy of pandemic , curse of inflation and scars of culture wars would have defeated them too . <p> But we do know that even spending $1.8bn ( ? 1.4bn ) by the Democrats failed to cover up obvious defects in a wooden , second-rate candidate . And the Republicans swept to a crushing victory that gives them untrammelled powers in Washington under a highly divisive leader who is contemptuous of democratic norms and sucks up to strongmen dictators . <p> Already we can see the impact of Trump 's return . There is mounting fear Ukraine will be forced into a highly-flawed peace deal that fails to offer sufficient security from Russia 's imperial ambitions while giving away chunks of the country as the president-elect dances to Vladimir Putin 's tune . <p> Biden deserves credit for supporting Kyiv after the Kremlin 's full-scale attack . Yet the flow of military aid has been hesitant and sluggish from the start since Washington was intimidated by Moscow 's threats , failing to see Russia 's weakness with national security adviser Jake Sullivan routinely misreading events . So Ukraine staved off collapse with its tenacious fightback but , due to all the White House dithering , was restrained from a possible victory that could have bolstered democracy and reshaped the world . <h> Read Next <p> Then the strength of Nato 's stand -- backing Ukraine in defence of democracy -- was undermined by Biden 's reluctance to criticise Israel even when its response to Hamas atrocities was indefensibly heavy-handed . This amounted to collective punishment of Palestinians with its brutal military barrage in Gaza -- leading to accusations from the United Nations , International Criminal Court and respected human rights groups that its hard-right leadership is unleashing war crimes -- while sanctioning more settler violence on the West Bank . <p> Now Israel , so reliant on US support , is undermining Syria 's frail hopes of securing a better future after the fall of Bashar al-Assad by grabbing land and launching hundreds of air strikes . The silence of friends does not help the cause of freedom . <p> This month saw one final betrayal of democracy by Biden with the disgraceful use of the presidential pardon to deliver sweeping protection for his wayward son . It must have been a terrible dilemma , of course , to know he held the power to stop his child going to prison on gun charges . But he told the American people he would not grant a pardon for Hunter . Such cynical abuse of power fuels public dismay over the fetid arrogance of a political elite that looks after itself . <p> And it provides cover for Trump and his team to abuse the legal system for their own ends , whether to protect their own supporters or to pursue foes . Slowly but surely , they chip away collectively at democracy and corrode trust in their corrupted system . <p> As Biden said six months ago -- standing on the beach at Normandy to hail brave young men such as my father who fought there on D-Day to save our freedoms from fascism -- it is up to all of us to ensure democracy endures . <p> Sadly , all too often we are let down by our leaders -- as this president has proved once again .
