<h> LATEST EDITORIAL <h> Aw That Let 's make the uncounted millions count <h> Through hospital windows and news bulletins , personal loss opens a window onto the world 's wider suffering as the season , and the year itself , reminds us all why class solidarity matters now more than ever , writes MATT KERR <p> DESPERATE : A group of refugees cross a beach in Kent after being rescued from a small boat in the Channel , August 2023 <p> ? <h> This is the last article you can read this month <h> You can read more article this month <h> You can read more articles this month <h> Sorry your limit is up for this month <p> WHEN the nights are long , the days short , and a gale howls outside , it gives a little time to reflect on the year gone by . <p> I 've always had a thing for numbers . A few decades and several stone ago , I was a pretty useful time trialist . It 's an odd kind of bike race , just the road , your breath , the thump of your heart as you race against time itself . <p> On the best of days , 50 miles seems to pass in a few minutes , an otherworldly experience that sends you floating above the road and yourself , and all the time , every pebble , bump , and curve on the highway noticed , noted , and understood in minute detail . <p> Asked at the time and since what you actually think about during such an experience , all I 've ever really been able to say is " maths . " Starting out , I decided that bike computers ( as they were known at the time ) were n't for racing , they were for training . Riding on restricted gears , I used to work out how many times I 'd have to pedal to get around the course and how fast I 'd have to do it to beat first myself , then anyone else out on the road . <p> Other calculations would swing by on the way , and the result , I can see now , was something akin to a mantra , a self-hypnosis of sorts . The only thing that ever broke the spell was a man standing at the side of the road with an arrow pointing up or down , a speaking clock to my internal tick . <p> I found out later that my dad pointed the arrow down as I passed , even if I was up by a minute , but it did me no harm . In every other aspect of life , he used to criticise me for being in a rush , a case of the pot calling the kettle . He never stopped , every second counted . <p> Thirty summers later , we sat in the hospital , engaging in our other joint pastime , watching the news . Bulletins were dominated by the tale of a super-yacht sinking with the loss of seven lives off the coast of Sicily -- the crew who lost their lives barely mentioned as pics of the entrepreneurs and investment bankers who died filled the screens . <p> " There 's people dying every day in that sea trying to find a better life , and this ... this is what 's reported ? " My dad was incredulous . <p> A few days later , he 'd gone . <p> He 'd had the best care in the world from his beloved NHS as he did his bit to get the CWU 's New Deal for Workers on the government 's agenda . Another baby step on the road to a renewed working-class confidence , but the seeds of equality wo n't plant themselves . <p> I 've still got tools made by my grandfather , great-grandfather and even older . Do n't worry , this is n't another toolmaker speech -- they were blacksmiths -- but a step forward in law for working people is just a tool , no more . It 's as good as the person wielding it , as good as our imagination , as good as our ability to use it to forge the next upgrade . <p> The balance of forces still runs against us -- laws and rights will only take us so far -- what good there is to come for us lies in the place that law began its life , in the workplace , the community , the union branch . <p> These were my father 's natural habitats , but for many , the many , such meetings and organisations do n't feel like home , and we 're all -- literally -- the poorer for it . <p> I 'm still in mourning for him , I suppose . For weeks in hospital , every tick of the clock , every cup of tea from a nurse , every detail of the gadgetry , the medicine , the care , and every single word seemed to occupy the universe . Collapsed in an instant . <p> It 's hardly a unique human experience , people go through it every day and try to figure out what they do with the tools once the worker has left . <p> My profound luck is to have had the chance to share the same space with him for a minute or two ; others are less lucky . <p> While I sat with my Dad , the sun blazing in the window and onto my back , uncounted thousands of people scrambled in the dust , hauling shards of concrete in the forlorn hope of finding life or , at the very least , a loved one to bury . <p> More than 45,000 people are known to have been robbed of a chance at life by Israeli forces , but some medics estimate this is just the tip of the iceberg , predicting the real figure to be closer to 186,000 if the dust ever is allowed to settle in Gaza . <p> Still , our broadcast media clings to the lower figure , with the ever-present preface that it comes from the Hamas government , the implication , of course , being that it 's inflated -- the very same broadcasts that gave us wall-to-wall coverage of the super-yacht disaster that so appalled my Dad . <p> Over 100 people are known to have drowned crossing the Mediterranean this year in crafts that would n't even be considered as a life raft for that yacht , and another 52 died in the channel this year , barely meriting a footnote in some television report about numbers of small boats coming to get us . <p> Those small boats , or the desperate people on them , are n't the reason a record-breaking 10,000 children in Scotland and 150,000 in England will see in Christmas in temporary accommodation this year . <p> They are n't the reason Scotland still leads Britain in zero-hours contracts , that pensioners across the country will die for the want of heat this winter , or millions will have to rely on foodbanks to fill their stomachs and toy banks to fill their children 's Christmas stockings . <p> It should be clear enough by now that it is not enough to try to shock with the awful numbers I 've rhymed off here , though , they have a sad tendency of bouncing off people like the ticker-tape stats at the bottom of the 24-hour news -- not that many of them would ever make it onto that tape , of course . <p> Even the numbers marshalled can be made not to count through the sheer sensory overload of our time , as well as good old-fashioned censorship or its more dangerous cousin , self-censorship , while large tracts of our media are as scared of incurring the ire of Nigel Farage as they are of a rogue , genocidal state . <p> That 's why this paper matters , why trade union branches matter , and why every community activity we undertake in the coming year must be placed in the context of something bigger than any of us -- class . <p> There have been many notable victories for workers in this country this year , from trade union recognition agreements to decent pay raises and insourcing , and they must all be celebrated , but without an understanding , they were delivered through class solidarity , they risk melting like snow off a dyke . <p> That solidarity must be more than understanding that the old mantra that " workers united will never be defeated " is true , it is the job of the socialists to make the case to their fellow workers in Glasgow that the worker on the small boat is our brother , that the bereaved mothers of Gaza are our sisters , and that we better get on being each others ' keepers , because the men on the super-yachts are n't coming to the rescue . <p> The challenge we will face in 2025 is the challenge we have always faced : to unite the struggles for dignity and the sanctity of life around this globe , to replace the white noise of the world 's Farages , Trumps and Musks , with hope-rooted knowledge of ourselves , our class , and in the strength of our deeds .
