<h> Gaza protesters ejected from Limmud event with Israeli envoy Hotovely <p> Heads of Limmud have slammed a protest which took place yesterday when the Israeli Ambassador came to speak at the festival . <p> Around 30 Limmud participants stood in silence , with their backs to Tzipi Hotovely , holding posters saying : " Ceasefire now " and " 14,000 children killed " . They were quickly asked to leave by security . <p> Hotovely had been about to start a conversation with Michael Wegier , CEO of the Board of Deputies , when the demonstrators stood up . <p> Their actions were strongly condemned by Limmud executive director Adam Rossano , who said " there is no place for disruption like this at Limmud Festival " . <p> He told the JC : " The protesters were disruptive to the session , so they were asked to allow the session to continue or to leave . The protest dissipated quickly , and the session was able to go ahead . <p> " There is no place for disruption like this at Limmud Festival - we prefer those who disagree with one another to engage in constructive dialogue and debate . We do not participate in legitimising or de-legitimising any religious or political position found in the worldwide Jewish community . " <p> Sarah ( not her real name ) , one of the protesters , said that she had been disappointed that Hotovely had been invited to speak , saying that festival organisers had crossed a " red line " . <p> " She is at odds with Limmud 's values of pluralism , " she told the JC , adding that the ambassador 's views were also " at odds with the majority of the Jewish community in the UK " . <p> Most of the protesters were believed to be connected to far-left Na'amod movement , a Jewish organisation , which seeks " to end our community 's support for Israel 's occupation and apartheid " . <p> Sarah said she had decided to protest " against the war in Gaza and the Israeli government , which is committed to genocide and ethnic cleansing . The malign situation is making things more dangerous for Israelis and diaspora Jews . " <p> Rossano said : " Limmud is committed to its values of diversity , learning and arguments for the sake of Heaven , which ensures that there is space for the broad spectrum of views that exist in our community to be reflected , with healthy disagreement and rigorous debate encouraged . <p> " The UK Jewish community has a wide range of relationships with Israel , and we want all of those to have a home at Limmud Festival - it is what enables dialogue across lines of difference and a deepening understanding of one another . " <p> He said that Hotovely had been invited " as a representative of the Israeli government " , part of a large and varied array of Israel programming , which included Israeli artists , educators and performers from across the political spectrum . Hostage families , survivors or October 7 and Palestinians have also given talks during the six-day event in Birmingham . <p> During the conversation with Wegier , Hotovely was interviewed about the war , the hostage situation and criticism levelled at the Israeli government .
