<h> The photographs that defined 2024 -- and the stories behind them <p> Policing at a football match in Spain . Photograph : Violeta Santos Moura/Reuters <p> As conflict dragged on in Gaza and Ukraine , violence dogged the US election ; floods and fires raged , but bravery and humanity shone through . Photographers recall the moments when they took these era-defining photos <h> London , UK , 24 April <p> Two horses bolt through central London Jordan Pettitt <p> I was on Aldwych in London , outside the building where the inquiry into the Post Office scandal was being heard , and I 'd finished photographing people going in . A few of us were standing around , flicking through pictures and chatting , then all of a sudden , the normally busy street fell silent . Cars and buses had vanished . <p> You could hear it first -- the thundering of hooves -- and these two horses appeared at the top of the road . People must have stopped and slowed down to let these horses bolt straight through . I ran to the pavement edge , whipped up the camera and managed to get a few frames as they sped past . I initially thought that the red colour on one of the horses was paint . Only when it got nearer did I realise it was blood . <p> The only thing that was going through my mind was the colour of that horse , and just thinking that was a red I had n't seen before , it was so rich . It was all so quick that you do n't get time to think about anything else other than make sure the camera is pointing in the right direction . It was all over in seconds , completely random , and we just managed to be in the right spot at the right time . <p> It made the news very quickly -- the horses had been on a training exercise at the barracks near Buckingham Palace , got spooked , thrown off their riders and bolted . Fortunately , they were safely caught . <h> Mexico-US border , 26 March <p> A man carrying his daughter waits before attempting to cross into the US Brandon Bell <p> It was sunset , and temperatures were dropping pretty fast . Every maybe 30 minutes , somebody within a group would use pliers or cutters to try to cut through the barbed wire . <p> Earlier that week , there was a major clash on the border and border patrol had doubled down , so security around the area was really tight . Jordan was one of around 30 people in a group , which included children . He was carrying his daughter , wrapped in a blanket , while her mother was trying to sort out a plan with the rest of the group . They have a quick window -- maybe 45 seconds , not even a minute -- once they get to the razor wire , to make it through before law enforcement swarm that area and close it down . <p> He had stepped away from the group and just stood in this valley , looking at the fence and looking at the other side . When I saw him , I thought that it showed struggle , but also determination to make it across by any means necessary . He 's trying to keep his daughter warm , and he 's just waiting patiently for the group to come up with a plan . <p> He did make it across with his family , but others who followed got right to the wire and were turned around . When they make it through , they run , before border officials can get them into SUVs and take them to be processed . <h> Valencia , Spain , 1 November <p> Cars and debris pile up by a bridge after the flooding in Valencia David Ramos <p> I had headed straight to Valencia after the floods , and was one of the first outsiders to arrive at the villages near the city . People would shout out of their windows asking if someone was coming to help , and where had I come from . It was quite shocking how little information they had -- no television , no phones , the communications were down . I walked for miles . It was like a tsunami , the destruction . That feeling of shock turned into anger at the management of everything , from the alerts the day before the floods , and then the devastation everywhere . At least 200 people lost their lives . <p> This photograph was taken three days after the flood . I was walking towards the village of Benet ? sser , outside Valencia , along the railway track -- it was the easiest way to reach it . A lot of people from the village used the track to get water , or food , from Valencia . I saw some firefighters pumping water at an underpass under a railway bridge , and when I went to the other side , I found that wall of cars . I was amazed at the power of the water . <p> The emergency services were there , analysing the situation . I think they were looking for bodies in the cars , but luckily none were found . Then they were working out how to move the cars , one by one . I was there for a couple of hours , but I know it took a couple of days to clear the underpass . <h> Florida , US , 26 September <p> The US coast guard rescues a man and his dog during Hurricane Helene <p> Twenty-five miles off Florida 's Sanibel Island , a sailing boat began taking on water and called for help . Coast guard footage shows a man encouraging his lifejacket-wearing dog to jump off the side of the boat , into the ocean , before following him . They are assisted in the water by a rescue swimmer , then winched to safety in a basket to the helicopter . <p> Hurricane Helene made landfall along the Florida coast that evening . States of emergency had been declared there and in neighbouring states . The tropical cyclone brought high winds and storm surges , and caused the deaths of at least 234 people . <h> Portsmouth , UK 27 July <p> Kites at the Portsmouth kite festival . Josh Edgoose <p> I 've been wanting to go to the Portsmouth kite festival for a long time . I love photographing these dedicated hobbyist events -- it 's always a really nice vibe , being around people who have that shared passion in something quite niche . It just kind of rubs off on me . It was a much bigger turnout than I expected , probably a few thousand people . I had no idea it was so popular . It was surreal , with hundreds of kites in the sky , just an eclectic mix . It 's quite meditative watching them float . <p> Photographing people is my main thing . I got a few nice photos of just the kites in the sky , but they looked as if they 'd been created with AI -- I think you do need the actual human element . <h> Madrid , Spain , 13 March <p> Atl ? tico Madrid fans line the road to the Metropolitano stadiumVioleta Santos Moura <p> Atl ? tico Madrid were playing Inter Milan in the Champions League . At important games the Madrid fans line the road to the stadium , chanting and carrying torches , and wait for the team bus to go by . There 's a big police presence to make sure nobody approaches the bus or gets run over . <p> It 's somewhat tense , because the fans are very excited , but it 's mostly fun . The most striking aspect is that there is a lot of smoke . It 's really thick , and the police horses ca n't see very well , so you do have a few close calls with them , especially when the bus is passing and they 're galloping . <p> The police allow photographers to be on the road , to the side , so I was waiting for the bus to arrive and taking a few photos of the fans . I had earplugs in , because it 's hard for me to work with a lot of noise , but it all became silent in my head when that one horse drew my attention . Everything else dissolves around you . It felt very unreal and strange , and I wanted to convey the energy and tension , and my bewilderment . <h> Kharkiv region , Ukraine , 16 May <p> The bodies of Russian soldiers after an assault Kostya Liberov <p> This photograph was taken in the Kharkiv region during the early days of the offensive on Vovchansk , near the border with Russia . We had been there for about a month . Suddenly , Russian soldiers started to assault our positions , but thanks to our FPV ( first person view ) drones the attack was stopped . This photograph was taken with a drone . <p> I feel great sorrow that these people could not come up with anything better than to give up their lives in an invasion of the territory of another country . When you see this , when you see a dead body in front of you , some sense of pity awakens inside . This was once a living person who has now left this world for ever . At the same time , you understand that this could have been avoided if they had simply not waged war against Ukraine . <h> Teahupo'o , Tahiti , 29 July <p> I 'd been covering the entire event , from training to the podium . That morning in Teahupo'o , the swell was bigger than expected and the waves were pretty good . Around 9.30am , Gabriel Medina took one of the biggest waves of the day . I knew , like other surf photographers , that Medina loved Teahupo'o and would often celebrate the end of a big wave ride . And that 's what he did . <p> I was on the photographers ' media boat , and the tricky part of the shot was that when he was about to jump out of the wave , we could n't see , because the wave passed behind the boat . I just had to aim somewhere towards the back of the wave where I expected him to appear . When he jumped , I took eight pictures -- this picture is the fourth . He went on to win the bronze medal . <p> I had a few seconds to send all the shots to the editor from my camera , so I selected one of Medina riding the wave , this picture , and another one of him paddling back to the lineup , then focused on shooting the rest of the event . I still had work to do . <h> Nairobi , Kenya , 30 January <p> Volunteers help firefighters at a blaze at a commercial depot Thomas Mukoya <p> I was downtown , walking to the coffee shop to have an evening break , when I realised there was black smoke in the air , coming from a flight path . I thought it might have been a plane that came down . I did n't have my cameras with me , but I had my phone , so I took a motorbike taxi and headed in the direction of the fire , even though the roads were blocked . <p> It turned out to be a depot where they keep secondhand drums of oil paint , so when they started burning , the flames went up so fast . It was daylight outside the area , but the smoke was so thick it was like night , and the light was orange . There was a choking , dark smell and the ground was covered with different colours of oil paint . Every so often , there would be a huge blast , as a barrel exploded . <p> There were volunteers and traders helping the firefighters , and they knew the area , so they were saying where to direct the water . In this photograph , they 're dousing an area which was n't yet burnt but the fire was spreading fast in that direction . People were scared , but they worked together . It was like a show of solidarity . <p> I was there for a couple of hours , but people had started to arrive to steal what they could . I had to pocket my phone tightly and find a way out -- someone on a motorbike was trying to leave and I asked him to drop me back in the city centre . The fire kept burning until morning . <h> Donbas region , Ukraine , 18 April <p> The tattooed hands of a commander Tom Peter <p> Roman is 38 and a commander of a sniper support unit . He left Ukraine years ago and settled in France . He said he had everything he ever dreamed of , but then the war started , and he signed up because he felt he could n't look at himself in the mirror if he was sitting this out . So he went back to his home country to fight . We were in Donbas region and spent four or five days with him and his men in various dugouts . He has a reconnaissance drone unit , a mortar unit , and active fighting personnel , and they fan out across a section of the frontline . He works out of a command room in the basement of a house in a damaged village that 's barely populated . Most locals have left . He spends most of his days and nights in front of his screens , directing his guys . <p> He 's a very impressive , imposing character , with tattoos all over his body , this massive ginger beard and a low gravelly voice , a charismatic person who is well respected by his peers . The tattoo on one hand says " revenge " , the one on the hand that holds the cigarette says " hate " . <p> One of his closest childhood friends was killed fighting the Russians , and it was a very traumatic experience for him . He got those two words tattooed on to his hands , and he says that 's what motivates him on days when he might be feeling low . Many people volunteered to fight to protect their country , but for many it 's become personal , because they have lost close friends and comrades . These tattoos symbolise the personal tragedy that every soldier like him has experienced in this war . <h> Maldives , 3 March <p> A group of young sharks moments before an attack Angela Albi and August Paula <p> We are a team of scientists working on a project studying the predator-prey dynamics of blacktip reef sharks and baitfish . We 're interested in understanding how animals behave as a collective , and in this case , we see both the predator and the prey at the same time . This is a frame from a video taken by drone in the Maldives , just a little more than 10 seconds before a successful predation . <p> These are juvenile sharks , around 50cm or 60cm . When they 're bigger , they might be more likely to be seen in slightly deeper waters , but here they 're just a few metres from the shore and the water is shallow and really clear . It was a great opportunity for us to study this complex phenomenon that otherwise would be inaccessible , as well as a unique opportunity to ask some questions : how do the prey synchronise their response and transfer the information through the rest of the group when there is a potential attack ? And how do the sharks decide when and how to attack , and do they benefit from being in a group ? This project is relatively new , so we do n't have answers yet . <p> It 's a dynamic system that can go from a more quiet scenario , where you have sharks just cruising , and then there could be a trigger and a shark initiates a predation attempt , which could be successful or unsuccessful , or maybe there are other predators that come into the game . It 's never boring . <h> Los Angeles , US , 2 May <p> Police come up against pro-Palestinian students on the UCLA campus Etienne Laurent <p> Since the October 7 attack , I 've been covering most of the protests in the Los Angeles area , both pro-Israel and pro-Palestine . This was the pro-Palestinian encampment at UCLA the night the police raided . I had been there the previous night when the camp was attacked by pro-Israel protesters , so the tension was growing . The next day , a colleague called me to say there was a big buildup of police officers surrounding the camp . I arrived at around 7pm to take photographs of the mobilisation of the police , and then try my best to access the encampment . <p> Some protesters had already decided to leave , but there were still a couple of hundred who stayed . Tension was growing . The police had a megaphone and were asking protesters to leave . To prevent them from getting some rest , they were shooting flash bangs , but it was n't like a direct confrontation , so it lasted for several hours until the police moved in . They were pulling the protesters from the lines , while the protesters were locking each other by the elbows . It was mostly peaceful in a very weird way and any protesters who threw things at the police , like plastic bottles , were scolded by others . <p> I took this photograph between the two opposing lines , balancing on a bush which had some cardboard piled on top of it . The idea was really to capture these two forces facing each other . <p> It was like a tug of war for quite some time until the lines collapsed , with the cops slowly gnawing away by removing protesters , one after the other , removing the barricades and finally entering the camp . <h> California , US , 25 July <p> An animal flees the encroaching wildfire Noah Berger <p> The fire was coming really fast up this ridge into a community called Cohasset . Where the fire is going to affect civilised areas , most of the work of covering wildfires is putting yourself in those spots . <p> I was on the side of the road , watching the flames approach . Residents were evacuating down that road -- they were taking horses behind their cars and walking with dogs . I believe this is a fox , and I saw it in the corner of my eye as it was fleeing the flames . The grass is n't on fire but is reflecting the colour of the flames . The fire reached that spot a few minutes later , and tore through there hard . <p> I shot about 12 major fires in California this year , but this , known as the Park Fire , was our second-largest single-ignition fire ever in the state . It was caused by a person who rolled his burning car into vegetation . <p> The fire was rotating , like a tornado , so I had to be extra-vigilant for my safety . I ended up riding it out in a small dirt patch , maybe a quarter of the size of a soccer field . There were fire crews in that safety zone . You have to find a patch that does n't have any vegetation . It 's insanely hot and smoky ; your eyes are burning . There 's embers and debris flying through the air , vegetation falling , branches being picked up and carried around , and the fire spreading insanely fast . I would say the intense fire burned for another half a mile from where this photograph was shot . If the fox kept running , itmighthave outrun the fire , but I do n't know . <h> Pennsylvania , US , 13 July <p> Secret Service officers lead Donald Trump from a rally following an assassination attempt Evan Vucci <p> I 've covered Trump since he was a candidate in 2015 , and then at the White House . Once he came back to the campaign trail , I was right back on it . Nothing was out of the ordinary at this rally , the same thing I 've done a thousand times before . You see the same faces , a hardcore group of Trump supporters . He comes out and he 's waving to the crowd and speaking . <p> I heard the popping sound , and I knew immediately what it was from the rhythm of it -- I 've been in combat zones . I had my lens trained on the stage when the Secret Service started to rush the stage and cover him . <p> There was another shot , which we now know was the sniper team that fired back , so people in the crowd were yelling : " Second shooter ! " Officers were yelling , trying to get people out of the way and getting people down , so there was a lot of chaos at that point . I was just trying to find an angle where I could actually see . <p> I remember being hyper-aware of everything that was happening , telling myself to slow down , compose the photograph , think about where the light was coming from , what 's going to happen next , where they are going to take him . I did n't want to miss anything . Are there any people down ? Is there another shooter in the crowd ? I 'm looking all around while trying to keep my main focus on him . <p> Trump started fighting with the Secret Service officers to let him go to the front and he started pumping his fist at the crowd . Before they took him down the steps , that 's where I made that photograph . <p> My job is to show you the world through my eyes . I try to do it professionally , fairly , and I feel like I did that in the moment . The reaction to the photograph afterwards is out of my control . As far as people saying that photograph won Trump the election , I would have to push back on that . I think people have very real problems and very real issues , and I feel that for someone to vote based on a photograph is ridiculous . <h> Gravelines , France , 26 April <p> Sudanese refugees on a French beach attempting to cross the Channel Sameer Al-Doumy <p> Three days after five migrants , including a child , had died attempting to cross the Channel , I watched more people trying to make it from Gravelines , between Calais and Dunkirk , to the UK . <p> The sea was calm , but I did n't expect anyone would attempt the crossing , since a police buggy was already stationed on the beach . Around 7am , however , a group of migrants emerged from the dunes . The police tried to stop them with tear gas but a " taxi boat ' was already waiting offshore . This is a new tactic where smugglers avoid patrols by coordinating pick-ups at different beaches . The migrants boarded quickly , but the overloaded boat struggled with the waves and drifted back toward the beach . <p> A French police officer then waded into the shallow water , knife in hand , and approached the boat . The migrants were terrified , pleading with him to let them leave . One young Sudanese man stood at the edge of the boat , crying and begging the officer to stop , but his pleas were ignored . The officer punctured the boat , forcing the migrants to abandon it . <p> Back on the beach , the Sudanese man collapsed in despair , screaming and sobbing uncontrollably , while others gathered around to console him . It was an incredibly painful scene to witness -- his anguish reflected the hopelessness that so many endure in their search for safety and dignity . <h> Atka Bay , Antarctica , 12 January <p> Young emperor penguins take their first leap off an ice shelf Bertie Gregory <p> We spent two months camping about a mile from this emperor penguin colony . We arrived when they were about four months old and we wanted to follow them through that really important phase when the parents leave the colony , the chicks are left alone , and for their next meal , they have to march to the ocean by themselves , take their first swim , and learn to be emperor penguins without any instruction from their parents . It happens when the sea ice is starting to break up with the onset of the Antarctic summer , which means that for humans , it 's a very challenging environment to work in -- you ca n't drive a snowmobile on sea ice that 's breaking up . <p> We had planned to photograph their normal behaviour -- they come down these big snowy ramps , march to the edge of the sea ice and jump in from a couple of feet . Then there was a big storm and the ice shattered , so we could n't get near . We were feeling very frustrated because our chance was gone . Then I noticed this one group of chicks that had taken a left turn and were going a different way , staying on the ice shelf . <p> I followed them by drone and realised they were marching towards the edge of this enormous cliff , 50ft high . Drones make a lot of noise , and I was very conscious that I should n't frighten them . I wanted to have absolutely no impact . I used a really powerful scouting lens just to watch them from a distance for four or five hours . <p> They were stacked up at the edge and staring at the drop . I thought , there 's no way they 're going to jump . Then one took a step forward . As soon as I saw it jump , I thought , this is a thing they do , they can survive -- so then I could go close enough with the drone to start photographing them . <p> By the end , they were just pouring off this cliff , a really extraordinary thing to see . I think around 100 jumped . The rest turned and went back to a point that was still a 20ft drop that they jumped off . <p> Some of them would be really brave and bold , and kind of swan dive , and then some of them would just fall over backwards . You 'd see them trying to flap as they fell . They all splashed into the water and bobbed to the surface , looking very shocked . But what was amazing was that they had a few seconds where they looked like they were panicking , and it was like a switch went off in their heads -- and they suddenly turned into these really graceful penguins . None of this is learned . It 's all instinctive . <h> Reykjanes peninsula , Iceland , 20 November <p> Another volcanic eruption in Iceland Marco Di Marco <p> The temperature was -9C , and it was windy -- which is why I managed to take this photograph because without that cold and wind cooling the air , I probably could n't have flown the drone above the lava . I was standing on the road to Grindavik , the town that was evacuated in November last year , on the Reykjanes peninsula in south-west Iceland . The road leads to the Blue Lagoon spa and swimming lagoon , and , a few hours later , a couple of hundred metres from where I was standing , the lava crossed the road and reached it . They 'd built up a wall of dirt to protect the complex , but the parking lot is now gone . <p> The area is not steep , so the lava does not move so fast that it could outrun you . The wind was in the right direction -- at the beginnings of these eruptions , the gas emission is massive , so you do n't want to be in the direction of the plume , because that can be dangerous . <p> There have been several eruptions this year . It 's nature and is kind of bittersweet . When eruptions like this happen in an area with no infrastructure around , they 're beautiful . At the same time , where there is a town close by , you know that something may be destroyed . In this case , nobody got hurt , the eruption did n't threaten the town -- but there was still a feeling that people would lose something , even if it 's just the road . <h> Lviv , Ukraine , 7 July <p> Mourners at a memorial for Iryna Tsybukh , a combat medic Julia Kochetova <p> I met Iryna Tsybukh when I photographed her work as a combat medic . She contacted me on social media when I posted the image and I started to cover her unit . We became good friends . Last year , she sent me and another friend a message about what to do in case she was killed , how she 'd like to be commemorated . We spoke a lot about it but you never expect that you 're actually going to have to do it . Iryna was killed in May on her way to evacuate wounded soldiers in the Kharkiv region . She was 25 . <p> This image was taken at her memorial , part of Orthodox tradition in which you commemorate the person 40 days after the person was buried . I noticed this family , and it 's a painful realisation that life still goes on . There are still babies being born in my country , even if we are burying other young people . There are still people who fall in love , have children and keep moving somehow . That was something special for me , so although I did n't feel like taking photographs , I made myself do it . <p> Iryna loved to walk with her dog , to read . She was always having ideas about how to get more donations , how to keep this fight going and how to remember those killed in the war . She was full of love , energy , ideas ; not fearless but extremely brave . She was bright and bold . <h> Paris , France , 31 July <p> Olympic athletes competing in the women 's triathlon Martin Bureau <p> The triathlons had been in doubt because of the weather conditions and concerns about water quality . The previous day , the men 's event had been postponed , but we got the green light for the women 's triathlon around 4.30am that morning . By 6am , I was at the pontoon built alongside Pont Alexandre III , the bridge where they would be starting their 1500m swim . <p> We met the safety team and one of them went into the water first to see if it was going to be possible . Wearing flippers and a wetsuit , I also jumped in -- it was just a test , so I did n't have my equipment with me . The temperature was fine , but it did n't smell too good and the current was very strong . There was still about an hour before the race so I could n't stay in the water , but then I realised I could n't get back on to the pontoon -- it was too high and I could n't find a ladder . I decided to swim across the river to get back up on the ramp , but the current was really strong and when I reached the ramp , I was getting exhausted . It made me realise how strong the athletes were , because they were swimming against the current on the return leg . <p> I 'd already lost a lot of time -- by then , the event was already live on TV , with the first athletes arriving . I had to run back along the pontoon , past lots of Olympic officials . Back in the water , I had to have a leash on my arm to avoid being dragged away by the current . The dive was the most important picture for me , and I got it . After days of uncertainty , it was one of the key moments . The Seine was playing a starring role in the Olympics -- people had been banned from swimming in it for just over 100 years -- and Paris had spent ? 1bn cleaning it up . <h> New Jersey , US , 26 May <p> Mick Jagger on the Rolling Stones tour at the MetLife stadium Christopher Wahl <p> Mick Jagger is the greatest frontman in history . He can captivate 65,000 people in the most un-intimate venue and make them feel something . He 's one of a kind . It 's impressive . <p> Rock'n'roll pictures , especially on a stage of this size -- there 's not really a level of intimacy to the photography , particularly . You 're just trying to be creative . I wanted something that looks like Jagger and holds up , as opposed to just a typical shot of him running up and down the runway . <p> It is remarkable to witness the man work . He is very good at it . Maybe the other band members are slightly slowing down , but not Mick . I do n't know how long they 're going to continue to do it so every opportunity you get to watch it , it 's something . Let 's not take it too seriously -- as they say , it 's only rock'n'roll . But it surely does make people happy . <h> California , US , 9 September <p> I noticed this kid because he was wearing a T-shirt with Smokey Bear , the character used by the US Forest Service in its public service campaigns about wildfire prevention . The fire was in the canyon below , and these houses were up on a hill in a neighbourhood that was being evacuated . The police were n't forcing people to leave , but they were advising them to . Aidan Thomas and a couple of friends had been riding down the street on their scooters , and they hung around and watched the fire while people were packing their cars . <p> In the end , the fire did n't reach the houses ; it stayed up in the hills where helicopters doused it with water and kept it away . But there was smoke everywhere . People were on edge , but the threat level was n't the highest . Though if the wind changed , there would have been trouble . <p> I 've been covering wildfires for around 25 years and I feel like it goes in waves . You have years where you have a lot , and years where you do n't . The hills will be really green in the winter , and if we get a lot of rain , there 's a lot of growth . In the summer , when that dries up , it 's so much fuel for the fire . It does n't take much to set it off . <h> Deir al-Balah , Gaza , 14 June <p> A Palestinian family climb out of the rubble of their home after an Israeli attack Ali Jadallah <p> The home of the Abu Aisha family was targeted around 11am . I was nearby and when I heard the massive explosion , I rushed to document the event . It was chaos -- screams , cries for help , and frantic efforts to provide first aid . <p> Since the onset of this genocide , I have been documenting the atrocities , often unaware of who the victims are . As a journalist , it is my duty to record the crimes of the occupation . It is a duty to show the worldthe agony , suffering and death we are enduring every single moment . Yet every tragedy I witness brings me back to that devastating moment -- the day my own family was targeted , and their bodies pulled from beneath the rubble . <p> The smell of debris , gunpowder , and blood is no longer just a scent to me ; it is a haunting reminder of my family 's absence . Every time I document the destruction , I am forced to relive my deepest pain . This wound within me has never healed -- it lingers , consuming me with every photo I take , every story I tell .
