<p> Loomer has engaged in a multi-day social media tirade over President-elect Donald Trump 's recent appointment of Indian-American entrepreneur Sriram Krishnan as a senior policy adviser for AI , prompting the loyal MAGA supporter to rage about Krishnan 's support of H-1B visas for Indian immigrants . <p> With the Trump administration promising an immediate crackdown on immigration , Loomer has launched a series of attacks on Indians described as " racist " following Krishnan 's appointment , which she called " deeply disturbing . " Describing workers from India as " third-world invaders , " Loomer also took issue with Musk and Ramaswamy defending the tech industry importing " super talented engineers " from overseas . <p> " The average IQ in India is 76 , " Loomer tweeted at one point , along with several other posts disparaging Indians and their home country . <p> Far-right activist Laura Loomer listens as Republican presidential candidate and former President Donald Trump speaks during a Get Out The Vote rally at Coastal Carolina University on February 10 ( Getty Images ) <p> Meanwhile , Loomer has directed much of her ire directly at Musk , labeling him a " stage 5 clinger " and questioning whether the DOGE government efficiency advisory committee he co-chairs with Ramaswamy would " cut spending " or just redirect funds " toward the pet projects of tech billionaires . " <p> Musk , for his part , has dismissed Loomer as a " troll " who should be ignored . In response , Loomer has suggested that the X ( formerly Twitter ) owner and " first buddy " would soon find himself on the outs with Trump . <p> While Loomer has been raging about Krishnan 's appointment all week , the criticism from her and other MAGA activists ramped up after his previous suggestion that Musk look at removing the caps on green cards for skilled immigrants resurfaced online . According to Loomer , Krishnan and other tech entrepreneurs want foreign students to " come to the US and take jobs that should be given to American STEM students . " <p> After an Indian immigrant called her opposition to high-skilled immigration " fundamentally anti-American , " Loomer 's commentary became more bigoted and offensive . <p> " Our country was built by white Europeans , actually . Not third world invaders from India , " she tweeted on Christmas Eve . " You know , it was white Europeans who created the American Dream , and we did n't create it so that it could be exploited by pro open border techies like you . PS : why are people in India still sh*tting in the water they bathe and drink from ? " <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> David Sacks , the incoming AI and crypto czar , pushed back on Loomer 's complaints that Krishnan and other Trump-backing Silicon Valley execs were " career leftists , " adding that " supporting a limited number of highly skilled immigrants is still a prevalent view on the right . " Loomer reacted by falsely accusing Krishnan of donating to Harris 's campaign . ( It was a different person with the same name . ) <p> While Ramaswamy cited 1990s sitcoms as a key reason why there are n't enough qualified American-born engineers , claiming that was why the tech industry needed more workers from India , Musk sounded off that the " number of people who are super talented engineers AND super motivated in the USA is far too low . " <p> Reacting to a right-wing activist saying it was " wild " that MAGA was " turning against " him and DOGE , Musk stated : " Loomer is trolling for attention . Ignore . " <p> While simultaneously firing off about Musk , Loomer was also incensed that Krishnan appeared to have a friendly relationship with Democratic congressman Ro Khanna . <p> " Should MAGA stay home in 2026 ? I want @TeamTrump to let us know who is a priority , " she posted . " The MAGA base or an anti-Trump Democrat congressman who gets donations from tech bros and voted to impeach Trump ? I just want to know what to tell voters in 2026 when they ask me if they should vote . " <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> As for the world 's richest man , Loomer accused Musk of being " compromised " by the Chinese government and that Trump needs to push him out of his inner circle . <p> " The elephant in the room is that @elonmusk , who is not MAGA and never has been , is a total f*cking drag on the Trump transition , " Loomer tweeted on Thursday . " He 's a stage 5 clinger who over stayed his welcome at Mar a Lago in an effort to become Trump 's side piece and be the point man for all of his accomplices in big Tech to slither in to Mar a Lago . " <h> Latest stories <p> Elon Musk and Vivek Ramaswamy , co-chairs of President-elect Trump 's new " Department of Government Efficiency , " are defending the tech industry 's reliance on foreign-born engineers as the incoming Trump administration prepares to crack down on immigration . Musk and Ramaswamy both pointed to a lack of engineers stateside . " The number of people who are super talented engineers AND ... <p> Israel 's Attorney General Gali Baharav-Miara has ordered an investigation into Sara Netanyahu , the wife of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , after a report alleged that she had harassed opponents . <p> President-elect Donald Trump warned federal employees last week that they must return to the office - or else " they 're going to be dismissed . " The threat was the latest and loudest signal yet that Trump , his allies and Republicans in Congress are committed to ending a remote-work culture that became widespread for the civil service of 2.3 million during the coronavirus pandemic but that many conservatives now decry as an outdated taxpayer-funded perk that has hurt performance across the governme <p> For so long Erling Haaland has given the impression of being impervious to outside noise . Roy Keane once even likened his general play to that of a League Two player but it made little difference : Manchester City 's prolific No 9 just kept on scoring . <p> Israeli airstrikes in Gaza on Thursday killed at least 45 people , according to Palestinian sources , including hospital workers and five journalists . The strikes come as worsening humanitarian conditions and freezing winter temperatures claim the lives of newborns in displacement camps . Palestinian sources said that Israeli strikes in Gaza on Thursday killed at least 45 people including hospital workers and journalists for a militant-linked broadcaster.Five staff at one of northern Gaza 's last fu <p> Rep. Ami Bera ( D-CA ) explains to CNN 's Kate Bouldan why he believes " Ukrainian security " will be needed in a possible negotiation to end the conflict between Ukraine and Russia and why he thinks Putin is willing to negotiate .
