<p> Targets hit Thursday included military infrastructure at the Sanaa International Airport and in the Hezyaz and Ras Kanatib power stations , according to the Israel Defense Forces . They also struck military infrastructure in the Hodeidah , Salif and Ras Kanatib ports on the western coast . At least six people died and 40 were injured in the airport and Hodeidah strikes , according to the Houthi health ministry . <p> " We are determined to cut off this terrorist arm of Iran 's evil axis , " Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said . " We will persist in this until we complete the task . " <p> It was a rebuff to efforts by the Houthis to slowly escalate their attack on Israel with an eye toward avoiding full-out retaliation . Israelis viewed the nature of the attacks -- mostly in the early hours of the night over the past week -- as evidence that the rebel group was trying to inflict fatigue while keeping a cap on the confrontation . <p> A high-level United Nations delegation headed by World Health Organization Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus , was at the airport when the strikes occurred , according to a spokesperson for UN Secretary General Ant ? nio Guterres . A UN Humanitarian Air Service crew member was injured , according to the spokesperson . <p> With Hamas on the ropes after losing much of its forces in Gaza since it began the conflict in October 2023 and Hezbollah in an official truce , the Houthis are the only ones shelling Israel , although from some 2,000 kilometers ( 1,200 miles ) away . <p> " We are witnessing escalation management by the Houthis , " said Uzi Rubin , an architect of Israel 's air defenses and veteran Defense Ministry adviser . " They vowed to attack Tel Aviv because we attacked Sanaa , but they are not yet ready to inflict major civilian casualties . Pre-dawn strikes mean people are n't out and about . " <p> In response to earlier attacks , Israel twice bombed the Hodeidah port , a key source of income and a conduit for imported goods for Houthis . It has also threatened to attack Houthi leaders . The US and UK have also attacked the militia . <p> " The Houthis have been very , very hard to shut down , " said James Jeffrey , who was the US special representative for Syria engagement during president-elect Donald Trump 's first term , citing US efforts to intercept Houthi missiles in the Red Sea . <p> " Israel can take out capabilities , but as long as the Houthis can get additional supplies from Iran , particularly missile components , they can keep this up , " Jeffrey said on Bloomberg Television 's Balance of Power . Israel may eventually decide " to go after Iran " directly if the Houthis do n't stop their attacks , he said . <p> The equilibrium the Houthis sought proved difficult to maintain . Of four " Palestine-2 " ballistic missiles launched at Tel Aviv over the last week , Israel said it shot down three , but one exploded in a vacant playground , shattering the windows of homes and injuring three people . <p> Sirens Sounding <p> Perhaps more disruptive for Israelis , hundreds of thousands of people rush to shelters each time sirens sound throughout Israel 's main population center . That 's a precaution not just against direct impacts but also the shower of debris from high-altitude interceptions . A school building hit in one overnight attack was demolished when part of a Houthi missile warhead landed on it . <p> In statements on the launches , Houthis have pledged to keep battling Israel until an end to the war in Gaza , which began last year following surprise raids by Hamas into southern Israel . Houthis , like other Tehran-backed groups Hamas and Hezbollah , are designated as terrorists by the US . <p> They have attacked countless ships in the Red Sea and Israel 's port of Eilat in solidarity with Hamas over the past 14 months . In recent strikes , Houthis claimed to be aiming for military installations in Tel Aviv -- a relatively new target for the group . <p> The responses of ordinary Israelis have ranged from jittery to jocular . A TV show interviewed experts about the dangers of sleep deprivation . In parliament , a lawmaker reassured her son by phone that she would be there to hug him in the middle of the night , a conversation caught by the podium microphone . A popular social-media meme flayed the Houthis for disrupting couples ' intimacy . <p> " We have long seen that our enemies use our own alert system as a form of psychological pressure against us . Here that works on a large scale , " Rubin , the military adviser , said . <p> Doron Hadar , a former commander of the Israeli military 's Crisis Management Unit , which runs simulations of enemy capabilities and doctrines , also saw a bid to chafe nerves . <p> " They 're trying to drive us nuts , while keeping below a certain threshold in this conflict , " said Hadar , who now heads Critical Impact , a private consultancy . " Iran is n't in a rush to put its Yemeni branch 's head on the block quite yet . "
