<h> Body of woman found inside property after Norwich house fire <p> Norfolk fire and rescue service attended a house fire in Carterford Drive in the Old Catton area of Norwich.Photograph : Google maps <p> The body of a woman has been found in a property on the outskirts of Norwich after a house fire , police said . <p> Officers were called to assist the fire service at 4.22am on Boxing Day after reports of the blaze at a residential property to the north of the East Anglia city . <p> Police attended the scene on Carterford Drive , where the body of the woman -- whose age has not been confirmed -- was found inside the house . She has not yet been formally identified . <p> Norfolk constabulary said her next of kin have been informed and the fire has been extinguished , adding that a cordon will remain in place at the scene for some time . The cause of the fire is unknown and inquiries are ongoing . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> In a post on X , Norfolk fire and rescue service said their thoughts were with the family and friends of the victim and thanked their staff and emergency services colleagues for their work during the " difficult incident " . <p> Seven fire engines , including one with an aerial ladder , plus a search and rescue team , attended the incident and crews remained at the scene into the afternoon on Thursday , local press reported . The blaze burned into large parts of the roof , photos showed . <h> Latest stories <p> A woman 's body has been found after a house fire in Norwich , police have said . In a separate statement , Norfolk Fire and Rescue Service said their thoughts " are with the family and friends of the resident who tragically died " . <p> Palestinian sources said that Israeli strikes in Gaza on Thursday killed at least 45 people including hospital workers and journalists for a militant-linked broadcaster.Meanwhile , in central Gaza , a Palestinian TV channel affiliated with a militant group said five of its journalists were killed on Thursday in an Israeli strike on their vehicle in Gaza , with Israel 's military saying it had targeted a " terrorist cell " . <p> The head of the World Health Organisation ( WHO ) said he was at Yemen 's Sanaa airport when it was hit by Israeli air strikes . Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said he was about to board a flight from Sanaa with UN and WHO staff when " the airport came under aerial bombardment " . " The air traffic control tower , the departure lounge - just a few meters from where we were - and the runway were damaged . " <p> King Charles has used his annual TV message to give personal thanks to the medical staff who have cared for him this year . Charles announced his cancer diagnosis in February , the same time as his daughter-in-law Kate shared she was having abdominal surgery . She later revealed she too would be undergoing chemotherapy as a preventative ... <p> King Charles thanked the medics who have cared for him and his daughter-in-law Kate , after they both underwent treatment for cancer this year , in a Christmas Day message that touched on global conflicts and the summer 's riots in Britain . In his third Christmas TV broadcast since becoming king , Charles struck an unusually personal tone for the royal seasonal message , a tradition that dates back to a radio speech by George V in 1932 . The year has been traumatic for the royals after Buckingham Palace said in February the 76-year-old had been diagnosed with an unspecified form of cancer detected in tests after a corrective procedure for an enlarged prostate . <p> Kate Middleton delighted onlookers , joining other members of the British Royal Family for the annual Christmas morning walk to and from their church service at Sandringham , in Norfolk . Kate was accompanied by her husband Prince William and their three children , George , Charlotte and Louis , as they joined King Charles and Queen Camilla . Members of the ...
