<h> Why Palestinian forces are cracking down on Palestinian militants in the occupied West Bank <p> The raid is also seen as a test of the Palestinian authority 's ability to govern Gaza , a vision supported by the Biden administration but rejected by Israel . <p> Credit : AP <p> Armored Palestinian security vehicle as Palestinian forces mount a raid against militants in the Jenin refugee camp in the West Bank , Dec. 23 , 2024 . <p> Author : MAJDI MOHAMMED and TIA GOLDENBERG ( Associated Press ) <p> Published : 4:28 PM EST December 25 , 2024 <p> Updated : 5:47 PM EST December 25 , 2024 <p> Gunfire has rung out for days from the West Bank 's Jenin refugee camp . But this time , it 's not Israeli forces that are facing off against armed groups . It is the forces of the Palestinian Authority clashing with Palestinian gunmen . <p> The Palestinian Authority , which administers parts of the occupied territory , launched a rare crackdown earlier this month that has sparked one of the worst armed confrontations between Palestinians in years . The authority says it wants to bring law and order to what 's long been a hotbed of militancy and a place where it has little control . <p> Its ability to contain armed groups there will reverberate far beyond the West Bank . The Palestinian Authority wants to position itself to take over governance in Gaza once the war there ends . But confronting Palestinians at a time when many view the authority as a subcontractor for Israel could deepen divisions in Palestinian society . <p> Here is a look at the days of fighting between Palestinians in the West Bank : <h> Fighting rages on the streets and at least 5 are dead <p> Earlier this month , security forces for the Western-backed Palestinian Authority stormed into Jenin refugee camp , a restive militant stronghold , and began a crackdown against armed groups . <p> Fighting has raged in the streets of the camp , and armored cars are seen patrolling . Palestinian security forces have taken over part of a hospital , using it as a base and shooting from inside , according to the United Nations . <p> At least one militant from the Islamic Jihad group and three security force members have been killed , including a captain in the intelligence services whose death was announced Wednesday , according to the Palestinian forces . About 50 people have been arrested . <p> At least two uninvolved civilians have been killed and some wounded . The fighting prompted the main U.N . agency for Palestinian refugees , UNRWA , to suspend its services , including schooling . The violence has disrupted safe access for Palestinians to other services , including water and health . It also has complicated the restoration of services destroyed in previous Israeli raids of the camp . <h> The Jenin refugee camp explained <p> The urban , built-up refugee camp in the northern West Bank houses Palestinians whose families were displaced in the 1948 war surrounding Israel 's creation . It has long been a center for Palestinian militancy and a bastion of armed struggle against Israel . The militant groups Islamic Jihad and Hamas operate freely there , and its streets are regularly lined with posters depicting slain fighters as martyrs for the Palestinian cause . <p> The Palestinian Authority , which administers the main Palestinian population centers of the West Bank as part of interim peace agreements with Israel from the 1990s , has little presence in Jenin . Many people view the Palestinian Authority forces with suspicion and see them as serving Israel 's interests because of security coordination that has facilitated Israel 's own crackdowns on Palestinians . <p> The refugee camp and the adjacent city of Jenin have long been targets of Israel in its stated bid to stamp out militancy . Since the start of the Israel-Hamas war in Gaza , which has sparked a wave of violence in the West Bank , Israel has raided or carried out airstrikes in Jenin multiple times , killing dozens and leaving heavy destruction . <p> Palestinian health officials say Israeli raids throughout the West Bank since Oct. 7 , 2023 , have killed more than 800 Palestinians . Israel says most of these are militants , but youth throwing stones and people not involved in confrontations have also been killed . <h> The PA raid is meant to restore order but it 's also linked to postwar Gaza <p> According to Brig . Gen. Anwar Rajab , the spokesperson for the Palestinian security forces , the raid is meant to impose law and order and restore peace and security . The troops were focused on " eradicating " Iran-backed groups that were trying to incite " chaos and anarchy , " he added . The raid will end when those goals are reached , according to the security forces . <p> But the raid is also shining a spotlight on the Palestinian Authority 's ability to impose order and security in a restive area . With no clear vision for who will administer postwar Gaza , the raid could convince skeptics that the authority has what it takes to rule the Palestinian enclave . Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas is considering an agreement with Hamas that would create a committee of politically independent technocrats to administer the Gaza Strip after the war . The committee would report to him . <p> The Biden administration sees a rehabilitated Palestinian Authority as the best option to govern and secure postwar Gaza . The U.S. has for years invested heavily in training the Palestinian security forces , and the administration has seen its re-entry into Gaza , after being routed by Hamas in 2007 , as a feasible replacement for Hamas , whose rule Israel has sought to end with the war . <p> Israel rejects this idea , seeing the Palestinian Authority as too weak to be able to contain Hamas . It says it will maintain open-ended security control over Gaza . <p> The incoming Trump administration has not yet laid out its vision for postwar Gaza , but Trump 's first term was overwhelmingly supportive of Israel 's positions . <h> For Palestinians , the raid highlights and deepens their internal divisions <p> Palestinians are not strangers to divisions within their society , with the most prominent the rift between Hamas and Abbas ' Fatah party . The parties fought bloody street wars in Gaza before Hamas forced Fatah out of the territory , and the sides have failed to reconcile since . <p> Since then , the Fatah-dominated Palestinian Authority has tried to diminish Hamas ' influence in the West Bank , often with Israel 's help . <p> Reeling from the yearslong internal rift , Palestinians have staged general strikes and protests calling for unity . But the raid could deepen the perception of the Palestinian Authority as a facilitator of Israel 's whims and potentially undermine any popular support for it to return to effectively rule Gaza .
