<h> Sign up to The JC newsletter <h> Israel and the US know that only sustained bombing will stamp out the Houthis ' threat <p> The Houthis now pose as the proverbial ' last man standing ' in the Iranian axis <p> Supporters of Yemen 's Houthi group raise up their arms during a rally in solidarity " with the people of Gaza " ( Photo by MOHAMMED HUWAIS/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> December 24 , 2024 14:11 <p> On December 22 a US warplane was shot down by an American ship in an incident of friendly fire . The F/A-18 Super Hornet was flying from the USS Harry Truman when it was engaged by the guided-missile cruiser USS Gettysburg . <p> The incident illustrates the increasing complexity facing the US and Israel as they seek to retaliate against the Iranian-backed Houthis . The goal of their operations is to deter the Houthis from further attacks . The Houthis have attacked shipping in the Red Sea and they continue to target Israel with missiles and drones . With Hezbollah weakened and Iran cut off from its proxy by the fall of the Assad regime , the Houthis now pose as the proverbial " last man standing " in the Iranian axis in the Middle East . Deterring them may be difficult . <p> On December 21 a missile launched by the Houthis from Yemen hit a playground in Jaffa in southern Tel Aviv . It wounded several people . Video appeared to show the missile flying past several interceptors . This raises questions about whether Israel 's air defence systems operated as they should . Israel has successfully intercepted numerous Houthi ballistic missiles in the past . However , air defences are never 100 percent effective . The Israel Defence Forces said they are investigating : " The incident is still being thoroughly examined . Some of the conclusions have already been implemented regarding interceptions and alerts . No further details regarding aerial defence activities and the alert system can be given due to information security considerations . We emphasise that aerial defence is not hermetic and the public must follow the Home Front Command instructions . " <p> The Houthi attacks on Israel have increased and become regular . These include missile attacks that set off sirens across central Israel , sending more than 2 million people to shelters . Israel retaliated for one of the attacks on December 19 , striking ports and energy infrastructure in Yemen . This was the third round of retaliatory strikes by Israel . However , these types of strikes may not work to deter the Houthis . <p> To understand this particular challenge one has to remember that the Houthis burst onto the scene in the Middle East back in 2015 . In those days the Obama administration was rushing toward an Iran deal . To get there , the US began to appease Iran in other areas of the region . This meant the US stepped back from threats against the Assad regime . Feeling that the regime had breathing space , Russia intervened in Syria . Iran increased its support for the Houthis in Yemen , Iraqi militias , Hamas , Hezbollah and other groups . <p> The Houthis in Yemen were an unexpected contribution to Iran 's ongoing attempt to take over the Middle East . They came to control the mountainous area of what was called North Yemen . This area is actually in western Yemen and the mountains around Sana'a . When the Houthis began to march on Aden on the coast , Saudi Arabia led several Arab states to intervene in 2015 . This was important for the Saudis . They did not want the hostile Houthis on their border . At first it seemed like Riyadh , Abu Dhabi and others would be successful . However , with Iranian backing the Houthis became resilient . Soon they had new drones and missiles with Iranian backing . They began attacks on Saudi Arabia , including targeting Riyadh . <p> After several years of an increasingly difficult war in Yemen , the Saudis stepped back and there was a ceasefire . This was in the context of Saudi-Iran reconciliation and the end of the Gulf Crisis that had seen Saudi Arabia and the UAE seek to isolate Qatar in 2017 . By the time the Biden administration came into office , the Saudis were moving to have talks with Iran and patch things up with Doha . The Biden administration also removed the Houthis from a list of terrorist groups . The Houthis had n't changed , but the Biden administration rewarded them anyway . <p> The Houthis felt they were on the winning side , and Iran was growing in power . The Houthis decided to use their new found power and clout to knit themselves into the " axis of resistance " with Hezbollah , Hamas and other Iranian-backed groups . The Houthis were already a vicious anti-Israel and antisemitic group with an official slogan of " curse the Jews " and which called for the " death " of Israel . But the rhetoric was not taken seriously enough . Only after the Houthis joined the war on Israel in the wake of the Hamas attack on October 7 did it become clear how powerful they had become . <p> There had already been hints of the newfound Houthi power . They had based Iranian-style Shahed 136 drones in Yemen in late 2020 . These same drones were also provided by Iran to Russia in 2022 when Russia began its war on Ukraine . As such , the Houthis were now knitted into a number of Iranian fronts . They chose to help Hamas by attacking southern Israel with missiles and drones and then also carrying out attacks on shipping . This brought US Central Command and several western powers into the confrontation with the Houthis . However , they have not been deterred . They have carried out hundreds of attacks on shipping and on Israel . They use drones and missiles to attack Israel . They have become increasingly proficient as well . In July a drone flown from Yemen approached Israel from the sea and narrowly missed hitting the US Embassy annex in Tel Aviv before killing an Israeli nearby as the drone exploded . <p> Israel has retaliated against the Houthis several times . Each of the strikes has been complex . It involves multiple warplanes including F-16s , F-15s and F-35s and also refuellers . Commentators have pointed out that this is good practice for Israel for long range missions . Indeed , Israel has carried out two long range strikes on Iran in retaliation for ballistic missile attacks . In addition , after December 8 when the Assad regime fell from power , Israel carried out hundreds of precision strikes in Syria to destroy the former military assets of the Assad regime , lest they fall into the wrong hands . <p> Israel has impressive capabilities . The US carrier strike group off the coast of Yemen has impressive capabilities as well . However , airstrikes on ports and various buildings used by the Houthis may not work to deter them . The Houthis grew up in Yemen not in control of ports and power plants but , rather , as a mountain militia . They are used to privation . They do n't likely care much if they lose some empty buildings . Hezbollah also withstood a year of Israel 's airstrikes on " terrorist infrastructure " in southern Lebanon . It was n't deterred . Hamas has also survived a year of Israeli operations in Gaza . It does n't mind hiding under rubble . <p> Israel and the US may need to increase the types of strikes on the Houthis if they want the Houthi attacks to stop . The group knows it is some 1,200 miles from Israel . It knows it is difficult for Israel to carry out a sustained campaign in Yemen . It also knows that precision airstrikes do n't win wars . Deterring the Houthis may take time . <p> Seth J. Frantzman is the senior Middle East analyst for the Jerusalem Post , an adjunct Fellow at The Foundation for Defense of Democracies and author of The October 7 War : Israel 's Battle for Security in Gaza ( 2024 )
