<p> Whatever label you apply -- the woke , the hard Left , progressives -- it 's been a lousy year for acolytes of the " omnicause " . We are finally seeing a retreat on the big issues that animate the kinds of activists who chuck soup over old paintings , harangue feminists or turn some parts of London into no-go areas for Jews every Saturday . <p> It 's not that the activists have gone away or the chanting has stopped , but that the nastiness and arrogance of these campaigns are alienating more and more people and in the process becoming less and less effective . Their delusions are wearing as thin as a culturally-appropriated keffiyeh and they only have themselves to blame : 2024 has been the year of the backlash . <p> This boneheadedness of the hard Left was there on election day in July outside my local polling station . I was greeted for the umpteenth time that month by supporters of Faiza Shaheen , who was standing as an independent candidate in Woodford Green and Chingford ( ostensibly on Gaza ) after being deselected by Labour a few weeks before . I asked one of her fanboys why Shaheen had not rejected the endorsement of dictator-adjacent George Galloway . His response was to start screaming that I was not entitled to an opinion . I suggested that by standing against Labour , Shaheen and her petulant followers would most likely split the Left and allow the Conservatives to keep the seat . " She will win ! " he spat in my general direction . I hate to say I told you so but ... actually I love to say I told you so . It was all there in that moment : he was aggressive , one-eyed and wrong . <p> The big problem for social justice warriors now is that on every issue about which they have chosen to obsess ( to the detriment of any constructive , meaningful ideas ) the result is pushback . It 's almost as if people do n't like being patronised and insulted . <p> Whatever " woke " is ( it 's such an incoherent ecosystem that finding a satisfactory name is virtually impossible ) it 's not the same as minority rights or protection of the vulnerable . Woke extremism is nihilistic , offering up performative moralism instead of answers . Progressives adopt the catchphrase of Roald Dahl 's Harry Wormwood , Matilda 's useless father : " I 'm smart , you 're dumb ; I 'm big , you 're little ; I 'm right , you 're wrong . " <p> On the environment , extremists ' stated reason for their direct action is that it has to be disruptive to draw attention to the urgency of the crisis . It has to be dramatic to force people out of their slumber . Yet the tactics employed by the likes of Just Stop Oil have the opposite effect . Throwing soup over venerated works of art has made the protestors look like the posh pranksters they are and little else . Disrupting roads and train stations does n't just annoy people , but does real harm to their lives . What has it all achieved ? Even less engagement with the issues , a nationwide shake of the head at the vanity of it all and prison sentences for the perpetrators . <p> Greta Thunberg embodies the slow decline of the progressives ' power to influence in 2024 . Where once she could wag her finger at world leaders and they would quiver in fear , she 's become irrelevant , appearing to have abandoned her once beloved Planet Earth for the cause of Palestinians and the grandstanding " River To The Sea " crowd . As a child she articulated the rage of a generation . As a young woman , she looks like just another student with an Israel obsession . <p> More broadly , pro-Palestinian activists are now facing the realities of global politics . As the year ends , the situation in the Middle East shows the limits of a movement that offers no solutions . By defending itself , Israel is stronger , with more powerful allies and less powerful enemies than it was before October 7 . Anti-Semitism dressed up as anti-Zionism is n't going to change that , nor is it going to bring the reality of an independent Palestine any closer . <p> The Cass Review , which looked at gender services and treatment for young people , published in April , delivered a hobbling blow to the extremes of the trans rights movement and knocked the scales from the eyes of many who previously accepted a dogma that had permeated institutions from schools to Whitehall . Some of these assumptions are now discredited , such as the propagandistic use of suicide statistics to suggest young trans people were especially susceptible if they were denied treatment . <p> The rights of trans people can not come at the expense of the rights of women or the bodies of children . So these once noisy advocates should be looking for compromises to resolve undeniable sticking points , thereby helping trans people live better , safer lives . But their default position is to fundamentalise the issue . They talk of tolerance and acceptance but tolerate no one and accept no argument . Their bigotry is transparent . <p> As long as the bins are collected on time , most Britons could n't care less how those around them live their lives or how they choose to identify themselves . There are few more live-and-let-live places in the world . If progressives insist on labelling those who object to their diktats as fascistic then everyone else is going to think exactly the same of progressives . <p> With all the causes now beating the retreat , their fatal flaw has been to be exclusionary . They do n't seem to have considered that bringing people in is more effective than forcing them out . And if they thought 2024 was rough , Donald Trump is sure to have some more bad news for them in 2025.
