<h> Israel confirms attacks on Houthi targets in Yemen <p> Joe Middleton <p> 26 December 2024 at 3:25 pm*3-min read <p> Smoke rises from Sanaa airport following Israeli airstrikes ( EPA ) <p> Israel 's military has confirmed that it struck multiple targets linked to the Iran-aligned Houthi movement in Yemen on Thursday , including Sanaa International Airport and three ports along the western coast . <p> Attacks hit Yemen 's Hezyaz and Ras Kanatib power stations as well as military infrastructure in the ports of Hodeidah , Salif and Ras Kanatib , Israel 's military said . <p> Yemen 's Houthi-run broadcaster Al Masirah said that two people were killed in Israeli strikes on Sanaa international airport and another person was killed in Ras Issa port . <p> Eleven others were injured as a result of the Israeli strikes , the broadcaster added . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> There was no immediate comment from the Houthis who have repeatedly fired drones and missiles towards Israel in what they describe as acts of solidarity with Palestinians in Gaza . <p> Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu said following the attacks that Israel will continue its mission until it is complete : " We are determined to sever this terror arm of Iran 's axis . " <p> Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus , the head of the World Health Organisation ( WHO ) , said he was about to board a flight at Sanaa International Airport when it came " under aerial bombardment " . <p> On X , formerly Twitter , he said : " One of our plane 's crew members was injured . At least two people were reported killed at the airport . The air traffic control tower , the departure lounge -- just a few meters from where we were -- and the runway were damaged . " <p> The WHO chief said he and his colleagues were safe and sent " heartfelt condolences " to people who had died in the barrage . <p> Our mission to negotiate the release of @UN staff detainees and to assess the health and humanitarian situation in #Yemen concluded today . We continue to call for the detainees ' immediate release . <p> A woman 's body has been found after a house fire in Norwich , police have said . In a separate statement , Norfolk Fire and Rescue Service said their thoughts " are with the family and friends of the resident who tragically died " . <p> Israeli air strikes hit Sanaa International Airport and other sites in Yemen on Thursday , killing three . The strikes , in response to Houthi attacks on Israel , also injured a plane 's crew member , said WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus , who was at the airport . Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu said the strikes would continue " until the job is done " . Israeli air strikes pummelled Sanaa 's international airport and other targets in Yemen on Thursday , leaving three people dead , a day after the latest a <p> A wave of Israeli airstrikes hit Yemen 's main airport Thursday just as the World Health Organization 's director-general said he was about to board a flight there . One of the U.N . plane 's crew was wounded , WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said in a post on X. The Israeli military said it attacked infrastructure used by Yemen 's Houthi rebels at the international airport in the capital Sanaa , as well as power stations and ports , alleging they were used to smuggle in Iranian weapons and for the entry of senior Iranian officials . <p> An overnight curfew was imposed by Syria 's ruling Hayat Tahrir al-Sham rebel group after 14 members of the Syria 's interior ministry were killed in what they described as an ambush by supporters of ousted President Bashar al-Assad.View on euronews <p> A bus carrying several foreign tourists went off the road and ended up partially submerged in a lake near the Raftsundet strait that separates the Lofoten archipelago from the Norwegian mainland , killing three people and injuring four , police said Thursday . " Many of the passengers on the bus were foreign nationals , " police said , adding that 58 people were impacted . <p> A tightly-scripted meeting of the Russia-dominated economic alliance of several ex-Soviet nations briefly went awry Thursday when two leaders engaged in bickering during a live broadcast of the event . Russian President Vladimir Putin and other heads of states attended the meeting of the Eurasian Economic Union , which includes Russia , Armenia , Belarus , Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan . Armenian Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan , who has increasingly sought to phase down his country 's ties with Moscow and forge closer relations with the West , joined the meeting via video link after canceling his trip following a positive test for COVID-19 . <p> North Korean troops are suffering heavy losses in the fighting in Russia 's Kursk region and facing logistical difficulties as a result of Ukrainian attacks , Ukraine 's military intelligence said Thursday . The intelligence agency , known under its acronym GUR , said Ukrainian strikes near Novoivanovka inflicted heavy casualties on North Korean units . It said North Korean troops also faced supply issues and even shortages of drinking water . <p> A Russian military convoy was seen on Thursday , December 26 , on a motorway in Latakia Governorate about 3 miles south of the Hmeimim Air Base , which is operated by the Russia military.Footage from journalist Obaida Hitto shows about a dozen military transport vehicles on the M1 near Jableh.A day earlier , the UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights ( SOHR ) reported that Russian forces had been withdrawing military equipment and vehicles from other bases in Syria and gathering near Hmeimim . Credit : Obaida Hitto via Storyful <p> Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer has revealed the Democratic Party 's secret weapon in fighting a rearguard action against Donald Trump 's MAGA offensive . The Democrats are holding onto one last hope after a disastrous election in which they lost control of the White House and both chambers of Congress . For the past four years , President Joe Biden , Schumer , and his colleagues on the Senate Judiciary Committee have been quietly stacking the federal judiciary with liberal-minded judges knowing t <p> President-elect Trump 's choice for special envoy to Ukraine and Russia , retired Lt. Gen. Keith Kellogg , slammed the Russian military missile and drone attack on Christmas Day and said the U.S. is " more resolved than ever to bring peace to the region . " " Christmas should be a time of peace , yet Ukraine was brutally attacked on Christmas ... <p> At least 14 people were killed Wednesday in Syria 's Tartus province when security forces under the country 's new leadership clashed with remnants of Bashar al-Assad 's regime during the attempted arrest of an officer linked to notorious Saydnaya prison . A Syria war monitor said 17 people were killed Wednesday in clashes in Tartus province after security forces sought to arrest an officer under deposed leader Bashar al-Assad who was linked to a notorious prison.The Syrian Observatory for Human Rig
