<p> The president of the Board of Deputies has expressed concerns for " the chilling effect " calls to boycott Holocaust Memorial Day could have on the annual event . <p> The Islamic Human Rights Commission sent a letter to 460 local councils and universities , urging them to boycott the event next month after the HMD Trust " refused to include Gaza among the genocides being marked " . <p> Speaking at Limmud , Board President Phil Rosenberg said : " Last year , there was an almost 20 per cent drop , and with calls for the boycott we are anxious about what is going to happen next month . " <p> Rosenberg , who sits on the board of the Holocaust Memorial Day Trust , said that he had been encouraged by the response of local councils , some of whom had added Holocaust Memorial Day resources in response to the calls to boycott . <p> In an article in the Jewish News , Councillor Jeremy Newmark , leader of Hertsmere Borough Council said that said he had found the request " appalling , objectionable and racist " and that it was a " thinly veiled attempt to redefine Holocaust Memorial Day as a vehicle to attack the state of Israel " . <p> Demands for a boycott had only served to motivate him to put more resources and energy into marking the day , he said . <p> Rosenberg added that the team at the Holocaust Memorial Day Trust was " working incredibly hard to host events throughout the country " . <p> This year 's Holocaust Memorial Day on January 27 will mark 80 years since the liberation of Auschwitz-Birkenau . It will also mark 30 years since the genocide in Bosnia and remember victims of other genocides , including Rwanda and Darfur . <p> Organisers of HMD , whose theme this year is For a Better Future , have stated that , following an increase in both anti-Jewish and anti-Muslim hatred in the UK since October 7 , they hoped that the occasion would be " be an opportunity for people to come together , learn both from and about the past and take actions to make a better future for all " .
