<p> Whether you 're commuting through festive chaos or embarking on a long journey to visit family , a great podcast can transform your travel experience this Christmas . From thrilling true crime stories to brain-enhancing tips , our critics have curated a list of the best pods to keep you entertained and engaged . Featuring everyone from Peter Mandelson to Richard Osman , Louis Theroux to Lauren Laverne , this is your ultimate guide . <h> True crime <h> Kill List <p> The big true crime hit of 2024 . Four years ago the British investigative tech journalist Carl Miller discovered a murder-for-hire website on the dark web . Intimate , hate-filled messages had been posted detailing targets ' names , addresses and daily routines . Payments were made in bitcoin . Even if the site were not what it seemed , did Miller have a moral obligation to alert potential victims ? This may initially present as just another true crime podcast , but it has an original , twisting , involving tale to tell . And not only a retrospective one . Patricia Nicol <h> Shadow World : Thief at the British Museum <p> Perhaps the best thing the BBC made in 2024 was this quietly gripping investigation into the theft of antique jewels from the British Museum , hosted by the corporation 's culture editor , Katie Razzall . It 's like something from the golden age of crime fiction and has a marvellous central character in the Danish antiquities dealer Dr Ittai Gradel , whose " photographic memory " helped him to spot the museum 's treasures being sold online . James Marriott <h> To Catch a Scorpion <p> " I was scaring . So much cold , " Marianne , seven , says , recalling the journey to the UK that almost killed her family , when their small boat shattered . At the top of the human chain exploiting desperate migrants , kingpin smugglers are making a killing . The BBC investigative reporter Sue Mitchell and the aid worker Rob Lawrie set out to track down Barzan Majeed , aka the Scorpion , an Iraqi Kurd with a pitiless reputation , sought by prosecutors internationally . Joining this brave pair on his trail makes for gripping , informative , worthwhile listening . PN <h> Cocaine Inc <p> What do the murder of Elle Edwards on Christmas Eve , 2022 , drug tunnels under the US-Mexican border and shoot-outs in suburban Sydney have in common ? Cocaine , the ubiquitous , illegal substance fuelling crime globally . For this hit investigative series spanning four continents and 30,000 miles , reporters from The Times , The Sunday Times and News Corp Australia have teamed up to expose the economics , powder trail and unglamorous truths about a habit so common " it 's likely that you , or someone you know , has snorted a line recently " . PN <h> Advertisement <h> Culture <p> Richard Osman and Marina Hyde present The Rest Is Entertainment <h> The Rest Is Entertainment <p> Marina Hyde , the journalist , and the TV personality turned author Richard Osman talk over the triumphs and the tragedies of the entertainment industry . Both are brimming over with insider knowledge . What makes a good quiz format ? How does a reality TV show get made ? Will AI really destroy Hollywood ? Is the age of the superhero franchise film finally over ? It 's also a great source of recommendations if you 're not sure what to watch , read or listen to . PN <h> The Wonder of Stevie <p> This show is a blaze of sunshine . Its primary focus is the breathtaking achievement of Stevie Wonder 's genre-defying five-album stint from Music of My Mind in 1972 to Songs in the Key of Life in 1976 . In passing , the ebullient presenter Wesley Morris , an unstuffy Pulitzer prizewinner , surveys Motown , civil rights and black American culture . The series is made by Barack and Michelle Obama 's media company , Higher Ground , and concludes with the former president chatting to Wonder . A joy . PN <h> London Review of Books Podcast <p> The London Review of Books podcast is just as intelligent and eclectic as the magazine . The hosts are Malin Hay , Adam Shatz and Thomas Jones and their guests tackle everything ... and we mean everything . Recent episodes deal with the novels of JG Ballard , the architecture of the 16th century , the bombing of Gaza , acid house rave , the difficulties of translating Proust into English , the infected blood scandal , cryptocurrency fraud and Chaucer 's debt to Ovid . Did they miss anything ? PN <h> Advertisement <h> Broaden your mind <h> Uncharted with Hannah Fry <p> The newly minted Cambridge professor of the public understanding of mathematics more than does justice to her title with her superb BBC Radio 4 show about statistics . Through a series of deftly told stories , she shows how mastery of numbers can save our lives . The best episode concerns how the US coast guard used ingenious computer modelling to work out the location of people lost at sea . JM <h> The Rest Is Classified <p> The latest offering from Gary Lineker 's podcasting juggernaut , Goalhanger Studios , delves into the murky history of espionage . The hosts , the former CIA analyst David McCloskey and the journalist Gordon Corera , offer glimpses of " what really goes on in the secret world " . The Rest Is Classified follows the unbeatable Goalhanger formula of great stories , dubious jokes and a sprinkle of behind-the-scenes insight . JM <h> Misquoting Jesus <p> This podcast was n't launched this year but it was new to us , and it 's so good that it deserves a mention . The Biblical scholar Bart Ehrman offers weekly deep dives into the early history of Christianity : did Jesus exist ? Who wrote the gospels ? Why did the Christian faith spread so fast ? It sounds esoteric , but Ehrman is the kind of charismatic expert who could bring any subject alive . Fans of The Rest Is History will love it . JM <h> The History Podcast : The Brighton Bomb <p> Amid a stellar year for series about the IRA , this stands out for the Northern Irish writer Glenn Patterson 's meticulous storytelling . Known historical events unfold like a thriller , reverberating with what-ifs . The background thrum of unease that was such a feature of that era of UK bombing campaigns is evoked vividly . Should you seek more , other BBC recommendations include The History Podcast : Escape from the Maze , In Detail ... The Pub Bombings and the still-to-conclude Cover : Stakeknife . PN <h> The Studies Show <p> The science journalists Tom Chivers and Stuart Ritchie dig down into the lurid science headlines ( the " can satsumas give you Alzheimer 's ? " genre of journalism ) to pick apart the studies behind them . The result is rigorous ( prepare to hear lots about sample sizes and " p hacking " ) but fascinating . What actually is addiction ? Is loneliness really as bad for you as smoking ? Does depression exist ? A reminder that the best entertainment comes from treating your audience as if ( shock horror ) they are intelligent people . PN <h> Advertisement <h> Past Present Future <p> David Runciman , the Cambridge politics professor turned podcaster , provides an erudite spin through the history of political thought . Recent highlights include episodes on the great political fictions ( featuring George Eliot 's Middlemarch , Salman Rushdie 's Midnight 's Children and Margaret Atwood 's The Handmaid 's Tale ) . Especially good is the history of bad ideas : episodes on antisemitism , mesmerism and the case against giving women the vote . PN <h> Documentary <h> Three Million <p> Even in India not enough is known about the estimated three million people who died of starvation between 1943 and 1944 . In Britain , when people have heard of the Bengal famine , it is often regarded as a slur on the reputation of Winston Churchill . Kavita Puri 's rigorous , illuminating , emotionally resonant BBC series set out to address that . Deservedly , since its release in February , this award-winning series has had real impact internationally . In a follow-up episode listeners meet the final generation of survivors . A book will follow . PN <h> Things Fell Apart <p> The second series of Jon Ronson 's wonderful BBC podcast about the history of the culture wars launched at the beginning of the year . Ronson tackles such thorny issues as changing definitions of " trauma " , the grievances of men 's rights activists and fights over gender . Almost nobody manages to approach these issues really impartially , but Ronson is a model of even-handed common sense . JM <h> The Secret Life of Prisons <p> This podcast has been one of the year 's revelations . I first listened to it to better understand the prisons crisis . It is impressively wide-ranging : episodes have included an ex-convict 's account of how an HMP Feltham PE instructor helped him to shed 18 stone ; Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe 's Longford lecture , " What I learnt about prison in Iran " ; poignant insights into parenting from behind bars ; and a criminal justice-focused budget analysis . Phil Maguire , of the Prison Radio Association , presents with the excellently intuitive broadcaster Paula Harriott , who told her story in an October episode , From Cell to CEO . PN <h> The Gift <p> Jenny Kleeman 's two-series BBC show tracks the stories of people who were given DNA home test kits as gifts . From these innocuous beginnings , a Pandora 's box of information spills out : unwelcome discoveries relating to paternity , shocking tales of medical malpractice and poignant accounts of suddenly discovered siblings and ancestries . These stories are strong ( the episode Sold deserves to win awards ) , and Kleeman unobtrusively lets them tell themselves , with minimal prompting and imposed narration . PN <h> Advertisement <h> Hysterical <p> Outbreaks of mass hysteria ( or , as we 're advised to call them nowadays , mass psychogenic illness ) are always a good source of podcasting material . In Hysterical , Dan Taberski tackles an outbreak of twitching , stuttering and tics at a New York high school . Sensible listeners know all along that it 's nothing to do with crop dusters , fracking or chemical spills , but these theories help to spin things out enjoyably enough , and the story is so strange that it repays the listener 's attention anyway . JM <h> Comedy <h> What Did You Do Yesterday ? <p> Feel dogged by your to-do lists ? Is time not so much a winged chariot as a condemned Lada ? Then this comedy podcast revelling in quotidian failings ( although not criticising get-up-and-go ) is for you . The hosts , the comedian David O'Doherty and the radio presenter Max Rushden , ask their title question then consider the life-in-the-day-of answers of guests such as James Acaster , Rose Matafeo , Alex Horne and Richard Osman . A stupidly simple idea , beautifully executed . PN <h> Everything Is News <p> This is a glorious send up of self-important news podcasts . The comedians Michael Clarke and Helen Price play the " troubled former Tory cabinet minister Tom Dudley-Brown " and the pompous BBC grande dame Julia Markham . Together they witter on pointlessly about all the glamorous international conferences they 've attended , offer hilariously out-of-touch commentary on how ordinary people live and prosecute grudges against professional rivals . JM <h> News and politics <h> How to Win an Election <p> The Times 's hit politics podcast relaunched this year with Hugo Rifkind at the helm . He is joined by Daniel Finkelstein , Peter Mandelson and Polly MacKenzie to pick over the latest from Westminster . We 're obviously biased , but in a world of po-faced and depressing politics commentary this one stands out for its wit and sparkle . JM <h> Hacks on Tap <p> As the terrifying spectacle of a second Donald Trump presidency looms ever closer , Hacks on Tap remains the essential guide to politics across the Pond . Our hosts are two affable old hands : the Obama campaign adviser David Axelrod and the Republican ( but Trump-loathing ) political strategist Mike Murphy . It 's supposed to feel like you 've sat down at a bar to chat politics with two of the best informed men in the business . It works beautifully . PN <h> Advertisement <h> These Times <p> Tom McTague , a journalist , and the mega-brain academic Helen Thompson chat through the deep trends underlying the news . This is pretty much the opposite of the sort of politics show that sticks to trivial Westminster gossip . While lesser podcasters are prattling about what Priti Patel said about James Cleverly in the House of Commons lunch queue , McTague and Thompson are digging into global oil markets , Europe 's structural geopolitical disadvantages and the future of autocracy . It requires concentration , but it 's deeply refreshing . PN <h> Frank Off the Radio <p> In March Frank Skinner announced on air that he had been sacked by Absolute Radio , where for 15 years he had headlined a much-loved Saturday morning show . Now he and his redundant radio sidekicks , Emily Dean and Pierre Novellie , are back with a podcast offering their clever , chucklesome , convolutedly looping chat , only without musical interruption . Funny friends reunited . His poetry podcast is here too . PN <h> The Sports Agents <p> Gabby Logan and Mark Chapman host this new podcast which rather dauntingly covers all sport : cycling , the Olympics , rugby , mixed martial arts , Formula 1 , horse racing , football , American football ... You name it , they 've got it covered . This inevitably makes for a slightly diffuse show . It is kept alive by Logan and Chapman 's amazing breadth of knowledge and their buoyant and professional presenting styles . Other shows will go deeper , but if you want to keep on top of what is happening in literally all sport , this is the place to be . PN <h> Interview <h> Strangers on a Bench <p> The singer-songwriter Tom Rosenthal wanders around London parks and talks to strangers sitting on benches . A simple idea but a wonderful one . The ensuing conversations are funny and moving . Rosenthal 's unmissable episode is The Disappearing Cyclist , a chat with a man who decided to abandon his life and cycle to India after a chance conversation with two strangers in a Bethnal Green pub . It could be a novel . JM <h> The Louis Theroux Podcast <p> This show used to be on the BBC as Grounded with Louis Theroux . Like pretty much all BBC stars , Theroux has been poached by a wealthy private company -- in this instance Spotify . I liked this podcast better when it was still on the Beeb , but even so it 's hard to go far wrong with Theroux 's faux-diffident interviewing style , which is an unbeatable tool for winkling information out of reluctant celebs . Recent guests include Baz Luhrmann , Germaine Greer and Sharon Stone . PN <h> Surprise yourself ... <h> Hyperfixed <p> Alex Goldman is a former host of Reply All , the show famous for producing what is sometimes called the greatest podcast episode ever , The Case of the Missing Hit . His long-awaited new show is just as good . Tenaciously following listener queries ( why do n't supermarket fridges have doors ? Is it possible to convert American cups to grams accurately ? ) , he ends up in fascinating , bizarre and philosophical places . It 's really wonderful . JM <h> The Mysterious Affair at Styles <p> If a classic crime adaptation is on your Christmas list , then this is one for which it 's worth breaking out the brandy ( and smelling salts ? ) . Set during the First World War , as in Agatha Christie 's debut novel , this introduces Hercule Poirot ( Peter Dinklage ) as he boards a refugee ship from Belgium . Superb sound design and a cracking cast , including Himesh Patel as Captain Hastings , Harriet Walter and Patsy Ferran , make this indulgently pleasurable audio for a darkening winter 's day . PN <h> Shows worth returning to <h> The Rest Is History <p> Possibly the most joyous and brain-enhancing podcast out there . Tom Holland and Dominic Sandbrook are deeply well-informed historians , but also a brilliant comic double act . Together they delve into history , ancient and modern . There is a refreshingly irreverent old-school flavour to proceedings . No pious moaning about the sins of the past , but lots of jokes about the French . Recent highlights include a series on the life of Martin Luther , the sinking of the Titanic and the history of the suit . PN <h> The Story <p> The flagship news podcast from The Times , with Manveen Rana as lead presenter , tells just one story in depth . Sometimes that story is what you would expect from the day 's news agenda . But many of the most thought-provoking episodes take listeners behind the headlines to recount something more intimate and illuminating ; for example , the crime correspondent David Woode recounting his experiences of police stop and search as a young black man . Another remarkable episode was the Times Gaza correspondent Amal Helles 's A Diary of War : Three Months in Gaza . The data journalist Matilda Davies 's Every Scary Thing Meta Knows About You was chastening . PN <h> Just One Thing <p> This series of programmes from Michael Mosley , who died on holiday this year , provides small tips for living a healthier , happier life . All are gratifyingly easy to implement : improve your brain power by putting your phone down , go swimming because it could be the most effective form of exercise , swap sugar for fruit , take a cold shower , go for a daily walk . Wonderful stuff . PN <h> The Rest Is Politics <p> If you have n't heard of this you must have been hiding under a rock with your fingers in your ears . Alastair Campbell and Rory Stewart host the UK 's most popular politics podcast . Both men draw on their careers in government to pick apart events in Westminster and beyond . They really hate Brexit and Boris Johnson . The Rest Is Politics is increasingly good on foreign affairs . If you want a lucid overview of what 's going down in the Bundestag right now , Campbell has you covered . PN <h> Where Should We Begin ? with Esther Perel <p> Would n't you love the chance to eavesdrop on other people 's therapy sessions ? On Where Should We Begin ? , the wonderfully accented Belgian psychotherapist Esther Perel talks couples through their relationship issues . Part of the pleasure comes from how eye-poppingly complicated other people 's lives are ( what on earth do you do when you find out your husband has secretly donated his sperm to his lesbian best friend ? ) . But also Perel is genuinely wise about people and feelings . PN <h> Off Menu <p> Podcast restaurant royalty James Acaster and Ed Gamble are now 12 seasons into running their " dream restaurant " , in which funny guests pick their fantasy meal . Brooklyn Nine-Nine 's Jason Mantzoukas talking ruefully about his egg allergy ( he once had to break off kissing a first date to rush to hospital because she 'd had a foam on a cocktail ) rounded off season 11 nicely . PN <h> Desert Island Discs <p> This is still the best interview format yet invented . Guests tell the story of their lives through their eight favourite records . Lauren Laverne has had some fascinating recent guests : the comedian Greg Davies , the actress Rebel Wilson and the novelist John Boyne . The archive is the real joy . Desert Island Discs has hosted pretty much every famous name you can think of in any field you care to name . The early episodes with Roy Plumley are a passport to another age . PN <h> Off Air with Jane and Fi <h> Backlisted <p> John Mitchinson and Andy Miller 's much-loved long-running literary show invites guests to discuss a favourite old book . Recent episodes include the thriller writer Alex Michaelides on Ford Madox Ford 's The Good Soldier , Andrew Hunter Murray on PD James 's The Children of Men and the poet Emily Berry on Anne Sexton 's All My Pretty Ones . PN <h> In Our Time <p> Melvyn Bragg may be 85 and this BBC treasure-trove past its 1,000th episode , but this flagship , one of the BBC 's most downloaded podcasts globally with a strong under-35s following , remains in splendid fettle . Every episode , since 1998 , is available to download . If you are at a loss where to start , the In Our Time archive offers curated guides under headings such as Listeners ' Top 10 , Religion , Philosophy , Science , History and more . The editor John Goudie 's picks range from episodes on The Iliad to Shakespeare 's sonnets , feathered dinosaurs , the gin craze and Mao 's Long March . PN <p> What are your favourite pods of the year -- and what have our critics missed ? Let us know in the comments below
