<h> Sign up to The JC newsletter <h> How Mossad 's masterstrokes helped Israel reshape the Middle East <p> Partly thanks to Israeli intelligence , Sinwar 's grand plan took place -- in reverse <p> IDF strikes against Hezbollah targets in Beirut ( Image : Getty ) <p> December 24 , 2024 11:08 <p> Officially , the Assad regime fell on December 8 when rebel forces seized Damascus in a swift offensive that lasted just over a week . But the countdown to Syria 's collapse -- and with it , the erosion of Iran 's influence in the region -- began much earlier , on September 17 . <p> On that day and the next , thousands of pagers -- hand-held communications devices used by Hezbollah -- as well as radio gear exploded simultaneously across Lebanon and Syria . The operation , orchestrated by Israel 's Mossad , was one of the most astonishing feats of intelligence in modern history . It can also be described as the largest targeted killing with minimal collateral damage in the war against terrorism . " It 's a reworking of the Trojan Horse story for the digital age , " wrote Michael Doran of the US-based think tank Hudson Institute . <p> This unprecedented operation triggered a chain reaction . It paved the way for Hezbollah 's defeat in Lebanon , regime change in Syria , a blow to Iran 's ambitions of Middle Eastern dominance and , ultimately , a reassertion of Israel 's military supremacy by the end of 2024 . <p> " We began planning the operation a decade ago , " a senior Mossad official who was privy to the mission told me . " It was part of a continuum , building on operations that go back half a century . " <p> Israeli intelligence -- Mossad and Aman 's signal intelligence Unit 8200 ( akin to the NSA in the US or GCHQ in the UK ) -- recognised the importance of intercepting enemy communications as far back as 60 years ago . <p> During the Six-Day War in June 1967 , Israel intercepted a phone call between Egypt 's President Gamal Abdel Nasser and Jordan 's King Hussein . Later , however , intelligence warnings from planted devices in Egypt about an impending attack were ignored , leading to the surprise assault on Yom Kippur in October 1973 . <p> Twelve years later , Unit 8200 intercepted a phone conversation between PLO leader Yasser Arafat and a leader of a small Palestinian group that hijacked Achille Lauro , a passenger ship in the Mediterranean . <p> From those lessons , Israel expanded its intelligence capabilities , tapping into undersea communication cables near Arab states in the Mediterranean , including Egypt , Syria , Lebanon and Libya . <p> Following the 2006 Second Lebanon War , Hezbollah -- bolstered by Iranian expertise -- discovered Israeli bugging and infiltration methods . It learnt that Israel 's Unit 504 of the Military Intelligence ( MI ) and Mossad had recruited informants within Alfa , Lebanon 's primary mobile network . Dozens of Lebanese were arrested in 2010 , including Alfa executive Charbel Qazzi , who worked for Israeli intelligence for 15 years . He gleaned information from his position in the transmission section of Alfa 's network , enabling Israeli troops to locate and kill Hezbollah activists during that war . <p> Mossad and Unit 81 of MI -- known for its cutting-edge technological innovations -- began developing a solution . Agents were sent to Beirut to study Hezbollah 's new communication tools . Others mapped the group 's supply chain . Five years ago , they identified Taiwan-based Gold Apollo as the manufacturer of the AR-924 pagers -- devices that receive text messages wirelessly but can not make calls . <p> Mossad infiltrated Gold Apollo by gaining its trust , establishing legitimate business relationships , and creating front companies in Hungary , Bulgaria and elsewhere in Europe . These shell companies built a reputation by working with real customers , securing glowing references for their reliability . <p> Finally , in early 2024 , Mossad agents made their move . In cooperation with the IDF 's operations department and Israeli state-owned security manufacturers , they offered discounted equipment to Hezbollah 's procurement network , supplying AR-924 pagers rigged with miniature , undetectable explosives . In September , the devices were remotely detonated in one synchronised strike . <p> Until that point , Hezbollah had held the upper hand in the war . Following Hamas ' brutal attack on Israel on October 7 , 2023 -- an event that stunned Israeli intelligence and military leadership -- Hezbollah 's leader , Hassan Nasrallah , opened a second front in solidarity . <p> In hindsight , Nasrallah made two critical errors . His first was his decision to attack Israel . His second was to confine his assault to missile and drone strikes instead of also deploying ground forces . <p> " If Hezbollah had launched a ground invasion alongside Hamas , they could have reached Tiberias and the Sea of Galilee . Israel would have difficulties repelling simultaneous offensives in both the north and south , " a senior IDF officer told me . <p> A few days after the astounding pagers operation , Israeli intelligence had another major success . It discovered the location of Fuad Shukr , Hezbollah 's " chief of staff " , and killed him in his hideout in Beirut with an airstrike . <p> Then , Israel inflicted an even more devastating blow by using a tip from an agent to assassinate Nasrallah . It was possible because the Israeli intelligence community managed to obtain the engineering and construction drawings and layouts of Nasrallah 's underground command centre . <p> The charismatic Nasrallah was the undisputed leader of Hezbollah . With financial support and arms supplies from Iran , Nasrallah extended his influence beyond Lebanon . Hezbollah rushed to support Assad in Syria , trained Shiite militias in Iraq and Yemen , and developed personal relations with Iran 's Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei . <p> " Hezbollah was like an open book for us , " the senior IDF officer added . " We knew the names , addresses and daily routines of their commanders and leaders . " <p> Following the decapitation of Hezbollah 's top leaders , the movement 's members were paralysed , confused , disoriented and demoralised . IDF invaded south Lebanon with little resistance . Pounding its troops , command centres and arms stockpiles , including those containing long-range missiles , Hezbollah was forced to compromise and agree on November 17 to a 60-day ceasefire . Nearly 70 per cent of its armaments were destroyed . <p> The military force of Hezbollah , as well as Hamas in Gaza before , has practically evaporated . <p> This is part of the new reality emerging in the Middle East . The most important development is the Iranian predicament . It is an Israeli consensus , binding together left and right , that Iran is defined as the " octopus head " . It has sent its arms to all corners of the region , embarked on the path to becoming a threshold nuclear state , and cultivated its proxies in Lebanon , Syria Iraq , and Yemen to encircle Israel with a " ring of fire " . <p> In April , Iran went the extra mile . In response to an Israeli airstrike in Damascus that killed the Iranian general in charge of Lebanon and Syria , Iran decided , for the first time , to directly confront Israel militarily . <p> Iran launched more than 300 missiles and drones against Israel . The entire Israeli population found itself in shelters for hours . Yet the Iranian attack turned out to be a colossal failure . For years , IDF generals estimated that Hezbollah and Iranian missile and drone strikes would cause unprecedented damage , killing thousands and inflicting widespread destruction . <p> They were wrong . Israeli air defences -- Iron Dome , David 's Sling , and Arrow -- in collaboration with US , UK , Jordanian , Saudi and other Western coalition forces , repelled the Iranian attack . Only four Iranian missiles reached their target , causing minor damage to the Nevatim Airbase in the Negev desert , which houses squadrons of IAF F-35 " stealth " warplanes . <p> In October , Israel retaliated by mounting a massive attack against Iran , primarily using warplanes firing precision-guided missiles from hundreds of kilometres away . <p> The strikes destroyed most of Iran 's air defences , including several Russian-made S-300 batteries and one S-400 system , the most advanced in the Iranian arsenal . The IAF also attacked the Parchin military base , where Iran was developing explosives for its nuclear programme . <p> The Israeli attack proved that Iranian boasting about its advanced technologies was self-deception . Iranian military , political , and religious leaders faced a new reality : they had been penetrated and exposed by Israel 's advanced technology and military supremacy . <p> The culmination of the defeats of Hamas , Hezbollah and Iran was supplemented by the surprising toppling of Assad 's regime . Islamist rebels , supported and armed by Turkey , took Damascus by storm within a week . Assad escaped to Moscow with hundreds of millions of dollars and gold bullion without making a real attempt to fight back . His defeat is evidence that rotten and corrupt regimes are bound to collapse . <p> Yet , Israeli intelligence was again surprised by the rapid developments . Nevertheless , it quickly rose to the occasion and took advantage of the political , military and strategic vacuum created . <p> Within three days , the Israeli Air Force destroyed Syria 's warplanes , naval bases , missile depots , air defences and -- no less important -- residual chemical weapons . Israeli security agencies had precise intelligence , gathered over many years , about the locations and targets of the Syrian army . It was a fast and swift operation . The truth , however , is that Syria 's weapons were rusty , outdated and poorly maintained . Israeli pilots participating in the strikes admitted that " it felt like a military drill . The enemy was not present . " <p> In that sense , the fate of the Assad regime is a manifestation of a poetic justice that shows that the desire of people to be free and liberated can not be suppressed for ever . Their will is stronger than dictators who rule over corrupt and dysfunctional regimes , be they in Iran , the Soviet Union , Afghanistan or Syria . <p> Iran under the ayatollahs may eventually face the same fate . History repeatedly shows that when such regimes crumble , it happens overnight -- so suddenly and unexpectedly it often surprises even the most knowledgeable espionage services , such as the CIA , NSA and Mossad . <p> It is clear that Israel is emerging victorious , while Iran , Hezbollah and Russia have been defeated . Syria was a key link in Iran 's axis of evil , which includes Hezbollah , pro-Shiite militias in Iraq and the Houthis in Yemen . All of them were supported by Russia , which has destabilised the Middle East . <p> As a cautionary measure , the IDF took over Mount Hermon on the Syrian side of the border and the 100km-long and 3km-wide buffer zone separating Israel and Syria on the Golan Heights . <p> Following the dramatic developments in Syria , the intelligence communities of Israel , the United States , and other Western countries are concerned now that Iran may break out -- that is , produce enough weapons-grade material for a nuclear weapon and assemble such weapons . <p> According to the latest International Atomic Energy Agency ( IAEA ) report , Iran has already accumulated more than 100 kilograms of enriched uranium to a level of 60 per cent . There is no scientific justification for enrichment at such a level to advance a civilian programme , meaning the only explanation is that it is intended to be used for nuclear weapons . In a short time , a matter of a few weeks , Iran can accelerate the rate and enrich the uranium from 60 per cent to 90 per cent , which would provide fissile material sufficient to assemble five bombs . <p> Intelligence experts believe that the acceleration of the uranium enrichment rate reflects Iran 's concerns about the impending change of the US administration on January 20 . It appears that Iran is preparing for the possibility that , upon Donald Trump 's entry into the White House , he will impose even more severe and crippling sanctions , not only to hurt its economy but also to cause the fall of the regime . <p> To prevent this possibility and to ensure the regime 's survival , Iran is striving to reach a situation in which it can announce within a week or two that it has succeeded in assembling nuclear weapons . Tehran 's assumption is that in such a scenario , the US will be deterred from attacking it . <p> Indeed , Iran is seriously discussing assembling nuclear weapons this time to serve , like in North Korea , as an insurance policy for the survival and perseverance of the regime . <p> At the same time , there is growing concern in the West that the Netanyahu-led government will try to take advantage of Tehran 's weakness and regional isolation to order the air force to attack Iran 's nuclear facilities . <p> Yet , a former senior Mossad official who is familiar with Israeli strategic thinking told me that it is very unlikely that Israel alone will strike Iranian nuclear sites , unless such a move is sanctioned by Trump . <p> When Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar planned and executed his brutal massacre on October 7 , 2023 , he hoped to trigger a wider chain reaction that would inflict carnage and overwhelming chaos on Israel and change the face of the Middle East . <p> Sinwar 's plan worked -- except in reverse . Israel and the region are facing a new reality . But in order to fully utilise the new emerging order in the Middle East , the right-wing Netanyahu government must also change its policy . It 's not only a moral duty to release the hostages from Gaza . It is a strategic imperative . The government also has a duty to heal the divisions in the Israeli society , which were among the reasons that led Hamas , Hezbollah and Iran to mistakenly believe that Israel has lost its fighting spirit and could be an easy prey . <p> ? <p> Yossi Melman is an Israeli intelligence and security writer and co-author of ' Spies Against Armageddon '
