<p> A major international crisis is " much more likely " in Donald Trump 's second term given the president-elect 's " inability to focus " on foreign policy , a former US ambassador to the United Nations ( UN ) has warned . <p> John Bolton , who at 17 months was Trump 's longest serving national security adviser , delivered a scathing critique of his lack of knowledge , interest in facts or coherent strategy . He described Trump 's decision-making as driven by personal relationships and " neuron flashes " rather than a deep understanding of national interests . <p> Bolton also dismissed Trump 's claims during this year 's election campaign that only he could prevent a third world war while bringing a swift end to the conflicts in Gaza and Ukraine . <p> " It 's typical Trump : it 's all braggadocio , " Bolton told the Guardian . " The world is more dangerous than when he was president before . The only real crisis we had was Covid , which is a long term crisis and not against a particular foreign power but against a pandemic . <p> " But the risk of an international crisis of the 19th century variety is much more likely in a second Trump term . Given Trump 's inability to focus on coherent decision making , I 'm very worried about about how that might look . " <p> Bolton , 76 , is a longtime foreign policy hardliner who supported the 2003 invasion of Iraq and has called for US military action against Iran , North Korea and other countries over their attempts to build or procure nuclear , chemical or biological weapons . <p> He was George W Bush 's UN ambassador for 16 months after serving as a state department arms negotiator and in the administrations of Ronald Reagan and George HW Bush . Bolton was Trump 's national security adviser from April 2018 to September 2019 . <p> Bolton recalled : " What I believed was that , like every American president before him , the weight of the responsibilities , certainly in national security , the gravity of the issues that he was confronting , the consequences of his decisions , would discipline his thinking in a way that would produce serious outcomes . <p> " It turned out I was wrong . By the time I got there a lot of patterns of behaviour had already been set that were never changed and it could well be , even if I had been there earlier , I could n't have affected it . But it was clear pretty soon after I got there that intellectual discipline was n't in the Trump vocabulary . " <p> In a sharp departure from traditional US foreign policy , Trump has campaigned under an " America first " banner advocating isolationism , non-interventionism and trade protectionism , including significant tariffs . <p> Bolton agreed with " a lot " of Trump 's decisions during his first term but found they had all the coherence of " a series of neuron flashes " , he said . " He does n't have a philosophy , does n't do policy as we understand that , he does n't have a national security strategy . <p> " I said in my book his decisions are like an archipelago of dots . You can try and draw lines between them but even he ca n't draw lines between them . You try and incrementally get one right decision after another . At least that 's what his advisers thought : that we could string enough decisions together . But that 's not the way he looked at it . " <p> The 45th president " could be charming " , Bolton acknowledged , and placed an emphasis on personal relations with autocrats such as Xi Jinping of China , Kim Jong-un of North Korea and Russia 's Vladimir Putin . But he lacked the competence required for the job and showed a blatant disregard for the national security briefing that presidents receive daily . <p> " He does n't know much about foreign policy . He 's not a big reader . He reads newspapers from time to time but briefing papers are almost never read because he does n't think they 're important . He does n't think these facts are important . He thinks he looks the other guy across the table in the eye and they make a deal and that 's what 's important . " <p> Trump believes he has a friendship with Putin , Bolton added . " I do n't know what Putin thinks his relationship is with Trump but he believes he knows how to play Trump , that Trump 's an easy mark . Trump does n't see that at all . <p> " If you put everything on the basis of personal relations and you do n't understand how the person you 're talking about on the other side views you , that 's a real lack of situational awareness that can only cause trouble . " <p> We will guide you through the aftermath of the US election and the transition to a Trump presidency <p> Enter your email address <p> Privacy Notice : Newsletters may contain info about charities , online ads , and content funded by outside parties . For more information see our Privacy Policy . We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply . <p> after newsletter promotion <p> Trump has repeatedly praised authoritarians such as Putin and Hungary 's Viktor Orb ? n and not ruled out withdrawing from Nato . Asked about Trump 's now notorious affinity with strongmen , the former national security adviser replied : " I suppose a shrink would have a better a better grasp of it but I think Trump likes being a big guy , likes other big guys . <p> " These other big guys do n't have pesky independent legislatures and judiciaries and they do big guy things that Trump ca n't do and he just wishes he could do . It 's a lot more fun if you do n't have the kinds of constraints that constitutional governments impose . " <p> In recent days , Trump has again rattled diplomats by threatening to take back the Panama Canal , calling for the US to buy Greenland and suggesting that Canada become the 51st state . Kim Darroch , who was Britain 's ambassador to Washington for four years from 2016 , told Sky News that Trump 's second term will be " like a 24/7 bar-room brawl " . <p> Bolton agrees that it could be even more erratic and disruptive than the first : " He now feels more confident in his judgement having been re-elected , which will make it even harder to impose any kind of intellectual decision-making discipline . " <p> Trump has said he would end Russia 's war on Ukraine within a day , prompting fears of a compromise that halts US military aid and obliges Ukraine to surrender territory . Bolton commented : " I 'm very concerned that he wants this off the table . He thinks this is Biden 's war . <p> " He said in the campaign , if he had been president , it never would have happened which , of course , is not provable or disprovable . He wants it behind him which strongly implies he does n't care on what terms and I suspect he does n't care . And that 's very dangerous for Ukraine . " <p> He praised Trump 's picks of Senator Marco Rubio and Congressman Mike Waltz for the positions of secretary of state and national security adviser respectively . But he described the nominations of Tulsi Gabbard for director of national intelligence and Kash Patel for director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) as " really dangerous " , arguing that Gabbard 's opinions belong on " a different planet " . <p> Gabbard is a longtime critic of the hawkish foreign policy and national security establishment , famously dubbed " the blob " in 2016 by Ben Rhodes , then Barack Obama 's deputy national security adviser . Bolton , however , rejects the characterisation . <p> " I do n't think there 's a foreign policy blob , " he said . " There 's a liberal Democratic blob that 's pretty problematic but the Republican party remains essentially Reaganite in its outlook . Trump is an aberration and , when he leaves the political scene , the party will snap back . We 're in the grips , though , of Trump for four more years and a lot of damage could take place during that period . "
