<h> A bit of boredom is just what we need for the good of Scotland <h> After a turbulent year , some normality in government north and south of the border would be very welcome in 2025 <p> Reflecting on a turbulent year on Christmas Day in 1666 , Samuel Pepys , the great diarist , did what most of us would like to do , and slept in late . " Lay pretty long in bed , and then rose , leaving my wife desirous to sleep , having sat up till four this morning seeing her mayds make mince pies . <p> " I to church , where our parson Mills made a good sermon . Then home , and dined well on some good ribbs of beef roasted and mince pies ... and plenty of good wine of my owne , and my heart full of true joy ; and thanks to God almighty for the goodness of my condition at this day . " <p> Sounds the perfect way to celebrate . No mention of the terrible events of the past year -- the fire that virtually destroyed London , the great plague of which the effects still lingered , the naval war against the Dutch , which led to the sinking of ten English ships , or the hurricanes that devastated the West Indies , with thousands of lives lost . <p> Pepys preferred to comment on the ordinary , the normal currency of daily life as he saw it -- eating , drinking , going to the theatre , as well , of course , as attending the occasional hanging , drawing and quartering of some traitor at the Tower of London , which he describes with a diarist 's eye for detail , saying of the condemned : " He looking as cheerful as any man could in that condition . " <p> There 's a lot to be said for the mundane . After another annus horribilis , a silent prayer for normality does not go amiss . There are reasons for optimism . In Qatar , negotiations suggest they may finally be inching towards a ceasefire in Gaza . The overthrow of Assad 's blood-soaked regime in Syria offers one of the few grounds for hope in the Middle East . Even on climate change , there has been modest progress , with solar power breaking all records and China , the great polluter , finally seeing its carbon output going into decline . <h> Advertisement <p> Donald Trump 's inauguration in the United States on January 20 could , of course , throw a spanner in the works , except that exercising power rather than boasting about it imposes certain restrictions and , even here , it is possible to reach for the optimistic . He could fulfil his own ambition of ending the war in Ukraine , not by giving Russia what it wants , but by calling the shots -- drawing a line in the Donbas , and telling Vladimir Putin that if he crosses it Russia will have the might of the US to contend with . <p> Along with the normal goes boring , and we could certainly do with some of that . Sir Keir Starmer , for all his error-strewn beginnings , shows every sign of being one of our least interesting prime ministers , and he deserves congratulations for that . In an era when charisma grabs the headlines , and reputations are made and broken overnight on social media , we desperately need the stability of an unremarkable leader . With no election pending for at least four years , he offers the possibility of continuity . Let 's hope he gets it . <p> That certainly seems the standard John Swinney aims for . He too shoulders the air of an ordinary man -- and all the better for that . A political friend in London told me : " I 've lost all interest in Scottish politics . At least with Salmond , Sturgeon and all that talk of a referendum , there was something we could get excited about . Now all that 's gone . " <p> Thank goodness . The truth is , so long as independence was the SNP 's political lodestar , attention was diverted from the bread and butter issues that really matter , such as health , education , social services or transport . If reading that line means stifling a yawn , so much the better . <p> Swinney 's budget , if it can be delivered , suggests a step-change in the SNP 's approach to government . For a start , it was a " consultative " effort , rather than the top-down policies that characterised the Nicola Sturgeon approach . The trio of ministers involved -- Swinney himself with Shona Robison and Kate Forbes , the finance and economy secretaries -- seem to work well together . Swinney , it appears , has even had a few late night chats with Willie Rennie , the former Scottish Lib Dem leader . <h> Advertisement <p> The budget itself contained a series of crowd-pleasing measures , such as proposing an end to the two-child benefit cap , and a big increase in NHS spending , most of it paid for with funds from Westminster . There was also was some limited good news for business . Probably more important were the austerity-style cuts announced in the autumn , showing , perhaps for the first time , that an SNP government actually understood the need to balance the books . <p> There may be some scepticism about its ability to deliver on its promises -- you can not erase 13 years of failed initiatives and poor administration overnight . This was a budget designed primarily to outflank Labour rather than offer financial improvement . Within the limitations of a Scottish budget , however , it seems to have worked , giving Swinney the edge at a time when Labour is struggling in the polls . <p> What is more important is the way independence has been sidelined . That ship has sailed , at least for the time being . Swinney himself announced his intention to use 2025 as a year for the SNP to demonstrate good government rather than constitutional initiatives . <p> So far so normal . All that could , of course , be thrown off course by events . Operation Branchform will presumably come up with an outcome one way or the other , and the SNP is still a minority government with little support in parliament and angry Greens on the fringes . Sooner or later Swinney will have to announce the demise of the once-heralded National Care Service and without doubt there will be no joy on the A9 . <p> This , however , is what normal government is all about -- dealing with the ordinary . It may turn out to be a bit dull . But after the catastrophes of the past year , a little boredom is only to be celebrated . Welcome to normal life . " And so to bed , " as Pepys would have said .
