<p> " How did Christmas ever leave America , &amp; how did Trump bring it back ? " someone else asked . " I 'm 76 I 've celebrated Christmas every year of my life . Good ones . Bad ones and no one told me how to do it or if I could . Stop with this garbage , " another replied . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> People were quick to confirm that they have , indeed , celebrated Christmas during the period when Trump was not president . <p> " It never left , moron , " someone said . <p> " I had it last year and the year before , " another wrote , while another person chimed in , " I remember having Christmas the past 4 years ... nothing has changed for my family and friends bro . " <p> However , fellow MAGA supporters agreed with the Alabama senator 's sentiment . <p> The senator was widely mocked on social media for making the claim ( Getty Images ) <p> " We are so back , " someone replied . " Feels good to say that , " another said . <p> Tubverville is a staunch Trump supporter and has profusely backed the president-elect , particularly over his cabinet choices . <p> Angry protests broke out Wednesday in Syria over a video showing an attack on an Alawite shrine , with a war monitor saying one demonstrator was killed in Homs city.In the central city of Homs , where protesters took to the streets earlier over the shrine attack video , the Britain-based Observatory said one demonstrator was killed and five others wounded " after security forces ... opened fire to disperse " the crowd . <p> A missile launched from Yemen triggered air raid sirens across central Israel early Wednesday , sending millions of residents looking for cover for the second night in a row . The military said the missile was intercepted before crossing into Israeli territory , but police reported shrapnel from the interception fell in several towns . It was the fourth time in a week that fire from Yemen 's Houthi rebels set off sirens in Israel . <p> STORY : : : Sirens ring out in Tel Aviv as Israel 's militaryreports it intercepted a missile from Yemen : : December 25 , 2024 : : Tel Aviv , IsraelThe sirens were activated around 4:20 a.m. ( 0220 GMT ) . Reuters footage from Tel Aviv shows a projectile streaking across the sky , followed by a loud explosion.The Israeli military said that the missile was intercepted before entering Israeli territory.The Yemen-based Houthi rebels have launched drones and missiles toward Israel on numerous occasions . They describe these actions as expressions of solidarity with Palestinians in Gaza , who have been subjected to Israeli strikes since October 2023 following the Hamas attack on southern Israel . <p> A key Syrian rescue group and an activist told AFP on Wednesday a burial site outside Damascus was likely a mass grave for detainees held under former president Bashar al-Assad and fighters killed in the civil war . " Probably this grave contains detainees but also former regime or opposition fighters killed in battle , " he told AFP by telephone . <p> At least 17 people were killed Wednesday in Syria 's Tartus province when security forces under the country 's new leadership clashed with remnants of Bashar al-Assad 's regime , including an officer linked to the notorious Saydnaya prison , according to a war monitor . A Syria war monitor said 17 people were killed Wednesday in clashes in Tartus province after security forces sought to arrest an officer under deposed leader Bashar al-Assad who was linked to a notorious prison.The Syrian Observatory f
