<h> ' Bad things can happen ' : how will the world adjust to the Trump presidency ? <p> Patrick Wintour Diplomatic editor <p> 25 December 2024 at 7:00 am*13-min read <p> Donald Trump at an event in Phoenix , Arizona on 22 December.Photograph : Cheney Orr/Reuters <p> " A revisionist state has arrived on the scene to contest the liberal international order , and it is not Russia or China , it is the United States . It is Trump in the Oval Office , the beating heart of the free world . The incoming administration contests every element of the liberal international order -- trade , alliances , migration , multilateralism , democratic solidarity and human rights . <p> " The narrative now at home and abroad is that the US is not what we thought it was . Trump was not an aberration , not a bug , but a feature of American politics and of America 's story . " <p> This stark assessment of the impact of Donald Trump 's return to the White House in January , by the Princeton University professor of politics John Ikenberry , leads him to a question : " Will the new global order be determined less by the US and more by its legacy partners ? Will they seek an alternative framework globally and regionally , or will they make bets to ride this out , and do the transactional politics that Trump is going to request ? " <p> Already , from Ankara to Brussels to Tehran and Moscow , the whole world seems catalysed and in motion as countries seek answers to versions of that question . Without Trump taking a single executive decision , they are positioning , responding and adjusting to the long shadow he represents . Even Trump himself seems a little unnerved at what his return is unleashing . " The world seems to be going a little crazy now , " he recently admitted in Paris . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Amid the craziness , three distinct forms of response to Trump are starting to emerge . <p> An " ideologically aligned " group is emboldened , including populists in Europe , Latin America and Israel who believe their often Russia-friendly brand of nationalism will benefit from being in the slipstream of America First . The breakup of the European Union , an Argentina-style chainsaw taken to regulation , a new security architecture with Russia , regime change in Tehran : all become possibilities . <p> A second group , led by China , foresees a diplomatic shake-up in which America becomes an agent of instability , leading to some kind of globalised realignment . For Beijing -- facing the threat of 50% tariffs -- the silver lining is that Trump 's willingness to treat friends as foes may create a leadership vacuum that China , as the so-called advocate of " the global majority " , can exploit . <p> It is one version of the " alternative framework " of which Ikenberry speaks . Trump seems aware of that risk and is already threatening to impose 100% tariffs on the Brics countries -- Brazil , Russia , India , China , South Africa , Iran , Egypt , Ethiopia , and the United Arab Emirates -- if they try to replace the US dollar with another currency . <p> The third , more phlegmatic , group is made up of America 's " legacy partners " in Europe and the G7 group of liberal democracies . They still hope that with the right mix of argument , flattery and self-abnegation they can make a rational case that appeals to Trump 's self-interest . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Leaders of these nominal allies , however much they revile Trump 's methods , look at American power and feel they have no choice but to interact with him . " We have to dance with whoever is on the dancefloor , " Mark Rutte , the new Nato chief , said in February . The battle then becomes one for Trump 's brain , and to persuade him that America 's interests do not stop at its borders . But if this strategy does not work , insurance is being taken out by strengthening alternative frameworks . Polling published this month by the European Council on Foreign Relations , for instance , showed that right across Europe voters prefer more Europe to more Trump . <p> That need not be surprising . Trump , it should be recalled , describes the EU as a " not-so-mini-China " . His threat to impose tariffs has already stimulated an internal debate in Europe on how to respond . The president of the European Central Bank , Christine Lagarde , has been accused of running up the white flag by saying Europe should try to ward off tariffs by buying US arms and liquefied natural gas . <p> The former WTO director general Pascal Lamy described her strategy to " calm this barking dog " as " absolutely wrong " . He said : " You never negotiate with the US , whatever the president , from a position of weakness . We must be strong by showing the importance of our market to US exporters . " <p> But even he admits this will be testing since different countries have different levels of dependence on the US . " Our strength is the size of our market and our unity . Our weakness is our lack of geostrategic consistency and our disunity . " <h> Ukraine <p> Trump 's true existential threat to Europe lies in Ukraine . Without having revealed a detailed peace plan , Trump seems to want to threaten both sides -- Vladimir Putin with rearmament in Ukraine , Volodymyr Zelenskyy with withdrawal of support -- to force an end to the war . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Asked recently if he was concerned about Trump 's intentions , the outgoing head of the EU 's foreign service , Josep Borrell , said : " How could I not be worried ? Certainly I am . This is the big elephant in the room ; this is the question . What will Europeans do if the new American administration is no longer supporting Ukraine ? This is the question the Ukrainians were asking me when I was visiting Kyiv . It came from the last soldier to the president of Ukraine . I do n't think anyone knows the answer . " <p> Trump complained : " We are in for $350bn . Europe is in for $150bn . That needs to be equalised . The war with Russia is important for everyone , but it 's more important for Europe than us . We have a little thing called an ocean between us . " <p> Faced by the risk Trump will agree a deal with Putin over his head , Zelenskyy at the end of November took pre-emptive action . He proposed a ceasefire in which Ukraine would solely rely on diplomacy -- not armed conflict -- to regain the territory lost to Russia in the east since 2014 , but in return the remaining part of Ukraine would be offered Nato membership , and not just the " well-lit bridge " to membership at some point in the future . <p> But Rutte has already rejected his plan , arguing that none of the key players , including Russia or the US , would accept Ukrainian membership of Nato now . Nato membership includes the key commitment that an attack on one member is an attack on all . <p> That leaves Europe facing some fateful decisions and not much time in which to take them . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Norbert R ? ttgen , the German CDU foreign affairs specialist , said : " Europe squandered the time it should have spent investing more heavily into the relationship with the US -- including by building up its own defences ... European leaders can not simply shift the blame for their predicament to Washington . " <p> Borrell insists he did try to make Europe learn to speak " the language of power " , and so be capable of acting more independently from the US . This required not just an increase in European defence spending , but a change in mindset that he admits has only just started . He recalls when he was asked how Europe would respond to the Russian attack on Ukraine in 2022 , he instructed his officials to work up an option , and they came up with a plan to spend ? 50m ( ? 41m ) . " I said " Are you crazy ? Put three 0s behind that . We are talking about a real war with bombs falling inside a European city . ' " <p> The use of the European peace facility -- an EU military aid fund -- to help Ukraine , which was advocated by Borrell , was a significant step . Overall progress towards creating a European defence capability has been glacial , however . He blames a lack of political will , symbolised by the opposition within the EU to ending the national veto in all foreign policy decisions . Borrell explained : " We live in an ecosystem where you can not speak , you can not open your mouth if there is no unity . How many times did I have to say ' there is no European position on this ' ? Everyone wants to keep their right to a veto , that is the reality . " <p> Borrell also found Europe 's industrial defence base hollowed out . " I have been begging for arms . It took three months just to ask for 1m rounds of ammunition . Russia is shooting 800,000 in a month . " Since the Ukraine war started , he said , nearly 45% of all the equipment provided by EU nations came from outside the bloc . <p> So a European plan to protect Ukraine is still needed , but Trump is having a galvanising impact . <p> A statement issued earlier this month by foreign ministers from Germany , France , Poland , Italy and the UK after a meeting in Berlin contained a warning to Trump not to strike a deal with Putin behind Europe 's back : " There can be no negotiations about peace in Ukraine without Ukrainians and without Europeans by their side . " <p> The question is , given the shortfalls described by Borrell : can Europe realistically fill the gap if Trump ends US support ? The plan is a European coalition of the willing , cooperating outside EU structures , providing security guarantees to Ukraine by stationing peacekeeping troops inside Ukraine along an as yet unnegotiated demarcation line . Unconfirmed leaks suggest the package includes as many as 40,000 troops , and a novel means to fund boosts to defence spending . The plan based on the model of postwar North and South Korea is so sensitive that no one yet wishes to discuss it in public . <p> The key drivers are Poland 's prime minister , Donald Tusk , in an alliance with the probable next German chancellor , Friedrich Merz , and the French president , Emmanuel Macron . The coalition needs to be credible enough both to convince Putin total victory is unachievable and to persuade Trump that Europe is reforming , and deserves American backing . <h> The Middle East and China <p> But just as Trump 's victory has forced the principals in Europe to rethink their war , Middle Eastern leaders wonder how their region 's proliferating and interconnected conflicts will be affected by Trump . Will he vacate the area , leaving the chaos to deepen , and allow other actors such as Turkey to regain their dominance and influence ? <p> Even Trump 's closest allies seem divided on how he will react . Some US diplomats brief : " Trump is not going to be like Bush or Obama . Sure , he 'll take calls from Gulf leaders , but he is going to respond : ' That 's your problem . ' " <p> Others such as Mike Waltz , the president-elect 's choice for national security adviser , say Trump is ready to make " big transformative deals " . Waltz is already claiming credit for the Lebanon ceasefire agreed before the inauguration . " Everyone 's coming to the table because of President Trump , " he claimed . <p> Yet Trump 's previous Middle East envoy Jason Greenblatt at the recent Doha forum for political dialogue said Trump saw no need to solve the Palestinian issue . " Many of you think the Palestinian issue is the be-all and end-all . Not true . What the Trump administration did , and I think they will try to do again , is to decouple the Palestinian issue from everything else . " He said that after the 7 October 2023 Hamas attacks on Israel " the Palestinian issue is so complicated and deeply entrenched , it is going to be hard to fix now " . <p> But that means the biggest deal -- the one between Saudi Arabia and Israel -- looks impossible for the moment . The Saudi crown prince , Mohammed bin Salman , has described what Israel has done in Gaza as a " genocide " , and his diplomats have said normalisation with Israel and an expansion of the Abraham accords -- bilateral agreements signed by Israel , the UAE and Bahrain during Trump 's first term -- is " off the table without a clear pathway to a Palestinian state " . <p> Moreover , just like Europe , the Gulf states are looking to reduce their reliance on the US . <p> Fawaz Gerges , a professor of the Middle East at the London School of Economics , pointed out : " Saudi Arabia , one of the most important Middle Eastern powers dependent on the US , is positioning itself for the Trump administration by diversifying its foreign policy , deepening its relations with China and normalising with Iran . " <p> He argued : " The Biden administration has insulted and humiliated its own Arab allies , all of which have been begging him to use leverage with the Israeli prime minister . " <p> The US , he contended , by " turning Israel into a military fortress , has prevented Israel from coming to terms with its neighbours . The US has not been a true friend of Israel since it has not sought to answer the question of : how do you anchor and integrate Israel into the social fabric in the region ? " <p> A self-confident Israel sees no need to answer such questions . The " military fortress " , after its display of dominance in 2024 , regards 2025 as the year to complete the remaking of the Middle East that it has begun in Gaza , Lebanon and Syria . <p> Within a week of the US election , the extremist Israeli cabinet member Bezalel Smotrich proclaimed that Trump 's return meant that " 2025 will , with God 's help , be the year of Israeli sovereignty in Judea and Samaria " -- the Israeli name for the West Bank . Annexation , an issue hotly contested within the first Trump administration , is back on the agenda , a prospect that terrifies the Gulf states . <p> More importantly , the stars may finally have aligned for Netanyahu to attack Iran 's nuclear sites , his objective for more than a decade . Anti-Tehran hawks will run Washington , Iranian air defences are weakened due to Israel 's previous attack in 26 October , the " axis of resistance " is in even worse disrepair , Syria no longer exists as a military force , and Netanyahu claims after three conversations since the election he and Trump " see eye to eye on the Iranian threat in all its components , and the danger posed by it " . <p> But Trump may not give Netanyahu the blank cheque he wants . He has sold himself to the American people as a leader that carries a big stick , but does not start wars . Iran 's leadership , despite the internal divisions , has also been sending signals to prove that it wants to get back to the negotiating table with the US and have sanctions lifted . <p> On the campaign trail Trump revealed that he had been prepared to make a deal with Iran " within one week after the election " if he had won in 2020 . " It would have been a great deal for them . The only thing they can not have is nuclear weapons . " <p> Trump may also not behave as many predict with China , focusing on the trade surplus , as opposed to an existential ideological war with the Chinese Communist party that does not animate him . China 's president , Xi Jinping , has already been manoeuvring in Europe , in the global south and with business opinion to portray himself as a free trading stable partner committed to green energy . <p> The contrast between the idiosyncratic decision-making in the White House and the predictability of China 's modus operandi is also being promoted globally . This narrative may conceal more than it reveals , but it finds a ready reception in bodies such as the UN . <p> It is also in stark contrast to the bleak description of Trump 's vision set out by the incoming vice-president , JD Vance : " People are genuinely afraid that if they do n't listen to him , bad things can happen , and there are consequences for disregarding him . " <h> Latest stories <p> Former White House communications director Anthony Scaramucci on Monday urged Elon Musk to stay out of politics and focus on his successful businesses . " Stick to business . You 've done great . You 've made a couple hundred billion dollars since the election , " Scaramucci said in an interview on CNN 's " The Situation Room " with Wolf Blitzer , describing his advice ... <p> President Biden commuted 37 federal death row sentences to life in prison in one of his final acts as president . CNN Legal Analyst Elliot Williams weighs in on why he thinks this decision was " a long time coming . " <p> Comical scenes were captured on security camera footage in Nanning in China 's Guangxi province , after a snooker player hilariously vented his frustration at missing a shot by jokingly kicking a wall . But the man 's kick was a little more powerful than expected . <p> Officers were called by West Midlands Ambulance Service to an address in Fownhope Close in Redditch , Worcestershire , on Tuesday . Officers say ' significant concerns ' were raised for the safety of a man who was in possession of a knife . A police negotiator responded and attempts were made to resolve the situation by engaging with the man over several hours . But at approximately 7.40pm , a 39-year-old man was shot by armed police .
