<h> **28;409;TOOLONG analysis points to a hung parliament , with huge gains by Reform and seven cabinet members losing seats -- including Angela Rayner <p> Sir Keir Starmer was swept to power with a landslide victory less than six months ago but the next general election could herald the end of the traditional two-party system , with a poll for The Sunday Times suggesting the country is on course for a hung parliament . <p> The first significant seat-by-seat analysis since the general election forecasts that , if another poll were held today , Labour would lose its majority and nearly 200 of the seats it won in July . The party , which won 411 seats in what critics called a " loveless landslide " , would lose 87 seats to the Conservatives , 67 to Reform UK and 26 to the Scottish National Party . Labour 's " red wall " gains would be almost entirely reversed , with Reform , rather than the Conservatives , as the main beneficiaries . <p> While Labour would still emerge on top , it would win barely a third of the total number of seats , giving the party a lead of just six seats over the Conservatives , while Reform would emerge as the third-largest party . <p> The analysis , by the think tank More in Common , suggests Labour would win 228 seats , the Conservatives 222 and Reform 72 . The Liberal Democrats would win 58 seats , with the SNP on 37 and the Green Party on two . <p> The implied national vote share has Labour on 25 per cent , the Conservatives on 26 per cent , Reform on 21 per cent , the Lib Dems on 14 per cent , the Greens on 8 per cent , the SNP on 2 per cent and other parties on 3 per cent . <h> Advertisement <p> Seven cabinet ministers would lose their seats , six of them to Reform , with Wes Streeting , the health secretary , losing Ilford North to an independent candidate , according to the analysis . <p> Rayner won Ashton-under-Lyne with a majority of 6,791 in the summer <p> GETTY <p> Others losing to Reform would include the deputy prime minister , Angela Rayner ; the home secretary , Yvette Cooper ; the defence secretary , John Healey ; the energy secretary , Ed Miliband ; the education secretary , Bridget Phillipson ; and the business secretary , Jonathan Reynolds . <p> Two further cabinet members would face tight races they are estimated to win by less than five percentage points against Reform : Pat McFadden , the chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster , in Wolverhampton South East , and Lisa Nandy , the culture secretary , in Wigan . <p> The model , created with survey data of more than 11,000 people , highlights a significant acceleration of electoral fragmentation since July 's general election , with the model suggesting an election today would produce an unstable parliament with no single party able to form a government . To hold a majority in the House of Commons , a political party needs to win more than half the seats -- at least 326 out of the possible 650 . <p> According to the analysis , the next general election could herald the end of Britain 's traditional system of two-party politics , with 271 seats won with less than a third of the vote . <h> Advertisement <p> In another 221 seats the winner would hold a lead of less than five percentage points , where even a small swing could change the results , according to the analysis . In 87 seats the result is too close to predict and there is a statistical tie , with the estimated winner less than two percentage points ahead of their closest rival . <p> This appears to suggest that the UK is beginning to resemble other European countries , such as Ireland , France and Germany , where parties are struggling to achieve an outright majority . France and Germany will hold fresh elections in the new year , with Ireland and the Netherlands seemingly under a perpetual coalition . <p> The model -- created using the multi-level regression and post-stratification method , which successfully forecast the past three UK general elections and is a way of using large national samples to estimate public opinion at a local level -- appears to reflect claims that Labour 's victory in July was broad but shallow . <p> The results are echoed by new modelling by JL Partners using council by-election data , which shows Labour would lose 155 seats , leaving it on 256 , if an election were held today . The model , which uses data from the past 157 local elections , representing 280,000 votes , suggests the Conservatives would be on 208 seats and Reform would surge to 71 seats , with the Liberal Democrats on 66 seats . The big difference between the two forecasts are in Scotland , where JL Partners predicts the SNP would hold only six seats . <p> In July , Starmer 's party won 411 seats out of 650 on just under 34 per cent of the popular vote on an extremely low turnout of 60 per cent . Labour in fact won fewer votes in 2024 ( 9.7 million ) than it did under Jeremy Corbyn when it lost in 2017 ( 12.9 million ) or fell to a cataclysmic defeat in 2019 ( 10.3 million ) . <h> Advertisement <p> The landslide was built on rapidly shifting sands and was underpinned by the Conservatives shedding votes to Reform , with Nigel Farage 's party winning five seats and coming second in 98 constituencies . In 12 of the latter , it was within 5,000 votes of winning . <h> Labour <p> Sir Keir Starmer 's party averages 26.6 per cent support <p> LEON NEAL/AP <p> The party 's honeymoon was short-lived and Labour 's national popularity has fallen significantly . Within his first few months in government , Starmer found himself embroiled in a freebie scandal and was forced to sack his chief of staff , Sue Gray , after a series of leaks about tensions in Whitehall , culminating in the revelation that she earned more than he did as prime minister . <p> There was also a backlash over the government 's decision to scrap the winter fuel payment for millions of pensioners and the decision by the chancellor , Rachel Reeves , to increase employers ' national insurance contributions . She is also under fire for her decision to remove inheritance tax exemptions on farmland . <p> Meanwhile , the world 's richest man , Elon Musk , has taken against Labour , using his social media platform X to criticise its policies . He has also met Farage and hinted that he may donate as much as $100 million to Reform . <p> Labour is on track for its worst end to the year in opinion polls since the Second World War , according to analysis by Sky News . Starmer 's party is now averaging 26.6 per cent , just one percentage point behind its previous end-of-year low in 2016 under Corbyn 's tenure , when Labour was dogged by an antisemitism row and leadership challenges . The only other years to rival its current low were 1981 , when the new SDP-Liberal Alliance upended politics , and in 2009 , when the party was reeling from the recession and an expenses scandal after more than a decade in power . <h> Advertisement <p> Starmer also continues to face low approval ratings . Just 27 per cent of people are satisfied with his performance , while 61 per cent express dissatisfaction , resulting in a net satisfaction score of -34 , according to a poll published last week by Ipsos . <h> Conservatives <p> Kemi Badenoch 's net approval rating is minus 5 per cent <p> JACK TAYLOR/GETTY IMAGES <p> The Conservatives are struggling to break out beyond their heartlands . Many of the gains from Labour 's declining position appear to have accrued to smaller parties , in particular Reform . According to the model , the Conservatives would win an additional 102 seats if an election were held today , despite receiving their second-worst result in the popular vote in history , and would cede one to the SNP in Scotland . This would include regaining Penny Mordaunt 's Portsmouth North seat , Liz Truss 's seat of South West Norfolk , Sir Jacob Rees-Mogg 's North East Somerset seat , and Grant Shapps 's seat of Welwyn Hatfield . <p> However , the Tories would be nowhere near being able to form a majority government . Kemi Badenoch , who was elected Conservative leader in November , has worse personal approval ratings than those recorded by Rishi Sunak and Boris Johnson at the start of their tenure as Tory leader and prime minister , according to the latest Opinium poll for The Observer . Badenoch 's net approval rating -- the difference between those who approve or disapprove of the job she is doing -- sits at minus 5 per cent . The only former party leader of the past five years that she beats in terms of her starting popularity is Truss , whose first approval rating was minus 9 per cent after she won the leadership . <h> Reform UK <p> Nigel Farage is the Reform leader <p> KEVIN COOMBS/REUTERS <p> The model finds that Reform would make significant gains , particularly in South Yorkshire and north Nottinghamshire , Greater Manchester and Tyne and Wear , as well as picking up its first seats in Wales , including Llanelli , Aberafan Maesteg and Rhondda &amp; Ogmore . It would retain its five current seats , gain 67 seats , including Leigh &amp; Atherton , Stalybridge &amp; Hyde and Oldham East &amp; Saddleworth , and come in second place in a further 206 seats . <p> Farage is hoping to use May 's local elections as a platform to overtake the Tories at the next general election . Seats in Essex and Kent will also be targeted , along with those in Lincolnshire , Nottinghamshire and Derbyshire . Control of Thurrock council in Essex is also one of its aims if elections take place there . <h> Advertisement <p> Recently , Reform strategists were prioritising the mayoralty of Greater Lincolnshire , where Reform has as a candidate Andrea Jenkyns , the former Tory MP and Boris Johnson acolyte . There is also the potential by-election in Runcorn &amp; Helsby , where the MP Mike Amesbury , who has been suspended by Labour , has been charged with assault after an incident following a night out . <h> Liberal Democrats <p> The model finds that the Liberal Democrats may have peaked but , with 58 seats , would comfortably hold a majority of the seats the party won from the Conservatives in July , highlighting the difficulty the Tories face in building back to a majority . Of the 14 seats the Lib Dems are estimated to lose , 13 would fall back to the Conservatives and one to the SNP . However , they are likely to be close to their electoral ceiling , with an estimated second-place finish in only another 35 seats . <h> Scottish National Party <p> The SNP would be set for a recovery in Scotland with 37 seats -- a gain of 28 from its 2024 results , reversing many of Labour 's gains in July but still below its 2019 total of 48 seats . Twenty-six of the SNP 's gains would come from Labour , one from the Conservatives and one from the Lib Dems . The SNP tends to do better when Labour is trailing in the polls nationally , as Scottish voters will often be incentivised to vote Labour when it looks as if the party will win power in Westminster . <p> SNP bosses hope the party will recover under the new leadership of John Swinney after being hit by a series of scandals . It will look to capitalise on Labour 's declining popularity , seeing it as an opportunity to revive calls for independence if all the alternatives appear to have failed . Labour is acutely aware of this threat and has already committed to investing in new energy projects in Scotland , including plans to make Aberdeen the headquarters of the new government-backed energy company , GB Energy . <h> Green Party <p> The model estimates that the Green Party may also have peaked and would hold two of its four seats , losing Waveney Valley and North Herefordshire to the Conservatives but retaining Brighton Pavilion and Bristol Central . The party would also come second in 20 seats . <h> Independents <p> Jeremy Corbyn stood as an independent in July and retained his seat <p> TOLHA AKMEN/EPA <p> The model estimates that all the current independent MPs , including Jeremy Corbyn in Islington North , would retain their seats . Independents would also gain three seats in largely Muslim areas likely to be influenced by the conflict in Gaza . These would include Ilford North -- which the health secretary , Wes Streeting , held in July by a margin of just 528 votes -- Birmingham Hall Green &amp; Moseley and Bradford West . <p> Luke Tryl , executive director of More in Common UK , said : " With potentially four and a half years to go , this model is not a prediction of what would happen at the next general election . Instead it confirms the fragmentation of British politics that we saw in July 's election has only accelerated in Labour 's six months in office . <p> " The first-past-the-post system is struggling to deal with that degree of fragmentation , which is why our model shows so many seats on a three-way knife-edge , and many being won on exceptionally small shares of the vote . There is no doubt that many voters have found the start of the Starmer government disappointing , and Labour 's estimated vote share would drop significantly were there to be an election tomorrow . <p> " While the new government is still in its infancy , it is clear that decisions such as means-testing the winter fuel allowance and other budget measures have landed badly . " <p> The model is based on voting intention data collected between October 31 and December 16 from 11,024 adults in Great Britain .
