<p> The Old Surrey , Burstow and West Kent Hunt emerged from the fog in a blast of horns , with hounds followed by horses and riders in red and black coats , waving to us like a scene from a Dickens novel . Nigel Farage was spell-bound . He 's witnessed this spectacle for decades . " My grandparents loved this . " As the horses cantered past , he gasped : " Beautiful , " adding : " The horse , but the woman on the back was n't bad either . " <p> " Yack , yack , yack " : Sid James laugh . And yes , he had a pint in his hand . <p> Interviewing Reform leader Nigel Farage at a Boxing Day meet must be the most Right-wing thing I 've ever done . The air was thick with cigars ; the punters wore tweed . Though there was plenty to admire in the chocolate box village of Chiddingstone in Kent , most eyes were glued to their phones , for we were watching the Reform membership tracker to see if it would hit the magic number of 131,680 -- at which point , Farage would be bigger than the Conservative Party . <p> When that line was crossed , at 11.26am , he waved his beer triumphantly and cheered " Waa-hey ! How about that ? How about that ... " An admirer declared him leader of the " official party of the opposition " . <p> Later , Kemi Badenoch labelled the achievement " smoke and mirrors " , pulled off with algorithmic voodoo . Reform is threatening to sue her for libel . All-in-all , this was the perfect day to talk to Farage about his past and future at the turn of a year that gifted him five MPs , third ( or second ) place in national polls , two new grandsons and a friend in the White House . <p> Within minutes of arriving at Chiddingstone , down the road from his home , he 'd been offered a beer from a beer tent -- then another , and another . I counted four by midday . " Up North , it 's a nightmare , " speaking of campaign tours to Red Wall pubs : " I ca n't get through the doors , they 've got three lined up . " <p> " Did you have a good Christmas ? " a voter asked . <p> " Alright , " he said , sipping his drink . " Getting better by the minute ! " <p> Born at Farnborough in 1964 -- his father was a stockbroker and his mother a short-hand typist -- Farage is Kent to his bones , an unpretentious county with the motto " invicta " , or " undefeated " . Men shook his hand ; women gave him a hug . Dawn Templeton , a psychotherapist , told him : " I used to argue about you with my father . He died last October and , as it turns out , he was right and I was wrong . " ( Farage has four children , two sons and two daughters , from two marriages . His girlfriend , Laure Ferrari , is French . ) <p> In the past , these hunt followers would probably have voted for a donkey in a blue rosette . That 's changed . Expectations that the Tories would recover post-election have not been filled ; as Labour support has continued to drop , it is Reform that has picked up the slack . The Telegraph 's 2029 general election poll-of-polls puts Labour on 27.5 per cent , the Conservatives 24.3 per cent , and Reform 21.6 per cent , up from 14.3 per cent at the last election . It 's estimated that a switch of fewer than 340,000 votes from July would give Reform more seats than the Tories -- hence why experts are watching next May 's local elections to see where we 're headed . <p> Hunting offers insight into events . As Farage reminded me , New Labour banned proper fox hunting in the noughties out of ignorance and " a little bit of class hatred " . That Keir Starmer wants to finish the job with a war on trail hunting , on top of an inheritance tax raid on farms , will no doubt hurt Labour in rural constituencies . <p> But the Tories wo n't feel the benefit because people remember that during their 14 years , they did n't lift a finger to overturn Blair 's ban or push back against the city 's anti-rural attitude . Why ? Because whatever its leaders promised -- on foxes , immigration or economics -- the MPs would n't give it Commons support . " Half that parliamentary party should be in the Lib Dems . " The Tories are thus unable to escape their history or compensate for it with a new populist strategy . <p> " You walk through the lobbies and see these arrogant old duffers " -- he referred here to Conservative backbenchers -- " some of the most stuck-up people I 've ever met in my life inhabit that Parliament . They naturally think , ' Oh the pendulum , old boy , will come back to us . ' They ca n't see that the game has changed , that something ... very fundamental is happening . " I asked if electing Badenoch as leader will help them ? His eyes popped like a French bulldog considering the absurd . " It makes no difference ! " -- because she 's held hostage by the duffers . As for Rob Jenrick , her rival , he 's " my tribute act without the personality " . <p> The Farage humour is bawdy and disarming . His favourite phrases are " quite frankly " and " I have to say " . I 'm now 42 , but he still calls me " dear boy " . I noted that he speaks in complete paragraphs , without deviation or repetition , and is probably GBNews ' biggest draw : where did he learn this skill at talking ? " Pubs . Drinks with the boys . " If you ca n't " articulate properly " , you 'll lose the argument . I wondered if he regretted not going to university rather than graduating straight from school into the stock market as a trader ? " No . " It was the 1980s : " Four years earlier , I would have probably gone to university , yeah , but suddenly Thatcher was there , exchange controls had been abolished , the city was exploding . I just thought : this is an historic moment " -- so he went and made money . <p> Within minutes of arriving at the Boxing Day meet in Chiddingstone , near his home , Farage had been offered a beer Credit : Heathcliff O'Malley <p> This is one of his many paradoxes , the arch-capitalist posing as Robin Hood . First elected to the European Parliament in 1999 , Farage has previously headed two parties -- Ukip and the Brexit Party -- and helped lead Britain out of the EU . He has run for Parliament eight times , finally winning Clacton back in July with 46 per cent of the vote . His popularity among the working-class must wind up the Left no end . <p> Incredibly , at the start of the year , it looked as though he was out of politics for good . He had handed Reform , the successor to the Brexit Party , over to Richard Tice , telling him : " Twenty seven years of this malarkey ... I 'm done ... I was honorary president , but I had nothing to do with it . " <p> And he had chosen to go on I 'm a Celebrity Get Me Out of Here , though I suspected at the time there was a political motive , and he does n't deny it now . Farage fancied the physical challenge , and thought " If I do n't do it now , when will I do it ? " But he also wondered if it would " detoxify the brand " , giving viewers a chance to see him unfiltered . Not " those people who hate me because they read those smart arses who live in the same postcode and write for the Times , the Rifkinds etc " -- he 's given up on those jaded Reformers . But the " young generation for whom the Brexit referendum is not on their radar " ... they could see him anew . <p> It worked . Reform 's rise in the polls began around the time of Farage 's appearance in the jungle -- though it also correlated to Rishi Sunak becoming prime minister , raising taxes and calling a disastrously early general election . I saw Farage speak in Dover on May 28 , at the start of the campaign ; not yet running for a seat , he seemed awkward . " I was very betwixt and between ... I went up on the Thursday to Skegness and people in the street were saying ' you 're letting us down ' . On the Saturday , we went to London to a trendy pub for dinner , and these young lads were coming up to me asking for a picture .... I said , ' f -- k it , we 're doing it ' " -- and announced , on June 3 , he was taking charge of Reform and standing in Clacton . <p> Time was short , but he was certain they could get " millions of votes and win some seats . I did n't know how many , but some . So I went into it , it was very difficult , and obviously what I inherited was harder than we realised . It was a shambles . Hundreds of unvetted candidates . " Many had to be dropped or swapped . <p> The gamble paid off . Farage was elected along with fellow Reformers Lee Anderson , Richard Tice , Rupert Lowe and James McMurdock . Surely he was thrilled ? Of course : though having spent 21 years in the European Parliament , this was n't daunting : " people forget the big difference is that for the last decade of that I was on the front bench , sitting next to the commission president , having the big speech in all the major debates . <p> " To be a backbencher in the House of Commons without quite the same level of authority , that 's obviously taking a bit of adjusting to ... It 's a very , very funny place to work . Very difficult to be a party leader and an MP , " to split one 's time between the local and the national . Farage likes the traditions of the House , but the procedure can be frustrating : " I would just like to know what time roughly votes are happening and roughly what time debates are happening . I keep missing stuff . " <p> He finds Parliament " clubbable " . Most of the new Lib Dems -- to whom he sits closely on the green benches -- " are sort of GPs from Dorset . And that goes for Labour as well , as there are very , very few of the real bitter old lefties . " He 's a stone 's throw from the Gaza independents . " Yeah , we ' have some interesting conversations , " he laughed -- and there 's commonality , too , on issues like private school taxes , which are unpopular with Muslim voters ( " because they 're aspirational " ) . <p> The splits and disaffection within the Left makes fighting Labour an " even sexier " proposition than the Tories . " There was a by-election in St Helens the other day " , which is in Liverpool , " the sort of place where Labour weighs the vote . We just put one leaflet through the doors , right , and Labour were down 36 per cent and we were up 41 per cent . " Reform won , though one should note that turnout was a piddly 16 per cent . <p> " The Sunday after the general election , Blair wrote a piece in the Sunday Times in which he said , be very wary of Reform " . Working-class voters , still furious at the Tories , smarting from benefits cuts and tax rises , seem to be taking another look at Reform . <p> Why ? " Pos-i-tive-i-ty ... We are not a protest vote . You come to our events : I 've got four in the first two weeks of the year . I 've got one in the northwest , one in the Midlands , one in the southeast and one in the east . " It 's members only , to limit numbers . " I 've got four venues , 4,000 seaters -- sold out . My phone 's blowing up . When you come to these rallies the atmosphere is unlike anything else you receive . It 's kind of like a rock concert , and that 's optimism . " <p> But how does one translate a vibe into seats in a first-past-the-post system ? He has become " obsessed " with Reform " infrastructure " . " If we do n't have branches , structure , organisation , we are nothing . We can fight the air war " - getting headlines , for example , with a nice row about membership numbers - " but without the ground game , you ca n't succeed . " So , last year Reform approved a new constitution and Farage appointed a new party chair , Zia Yusuf , a businessman of Muslim heritage . " I used the Liberal Democrats as the inspiration . Little bits of money started to come in as the membership ticked up . " The public image of Reform as a party of billionaires is " a little bit funny " . <p> It 's a " very different membership to anything I 've done before . It 's a mixture ... lots of young people " : he introduced a " ten quid membership " to make it affordable , and Farage is playing a social media game second to none . The critical thing , however , is voter data . Other parties have decades of canvassing to tell who votes for them and why ; Reform needs to gather vast amounts of information almost overnight ( which , it 's speculated , is one reason it 's been courting Elon Musk : he has both the cash and know-how . ) <p> " Data is the absolute truth , and that process is beginning ... Why do you think we 're taking the county council elections next year so seriously ? We now have 1,250 candidates for next year 's locals , who have been rigorously scrutinised , and I mean rigorously : 43 per cent rejections ... We 've said ' You 're lovely , but you 've used the f-word way too often on X. We may have been too strict but we know the focus on us will be much more intense than on anyone else . " If , as is threatened , some of the elections are cancelled , he 'll be " furious " . <p> Does he have a benchmark for success on local election night ? " We want to get a score that competes with the two parties , maybe gets ahead of them , and wins hundreds of seats . " <p> As for policy , " a lot of that has been laid out already in rough terms . The funding of the NHS , " for example , " is a total failure . The French do it much better with less funding . There is a lesson there . If you can afford it , you pay ; if you ca n't , you do n't . It works incredibly well . " It 's a bold agenda ; likely to spook some Red Wall voters -- so would he farm structural reform out to a royal commission ? " No , it has to be actual policy . " Also : " Net zero , no more subsidies . End of . Total self-sufficiency on gas and oil and coal where it 's needed . " Leave the European Convention on Human Rights , natch . <p> As for Channel migrants : " we just send boats back to France . " Bish-bash , job done . <p> Anger at immigration was linked to the 2024 riots in Southport . " There were far-Right elements , but mostly it was frustration at not being told the truth ... Now when the truth about Southport comes out , Starmer is in very big trouble , very big trouble , you wait , you wait . I know a lot more about what happened . " What he means by this , I 've no idea , though it 'll fuel conspiracy theories about the origins of the riots and the Government 's response . The thugs involved got significant prison sentences ; the woman who threw a milkshake at Farage when he was campaigning in Clacton did not . He pointed out that a man who aimed an egg at Jeremy Corbyn got 28 days : " So , two tiers ... you ask these people here , do you as rural people think you live in two-tier Britain ? They 'll say yes . " <p> Two-tier Britain ? Farage pointed out that the woman who threw a milkshake at him on the campaign trail avoided jail while a man who aimed an egg at Jeremy Corbyn got 28 days Credit : TOLGA **39;1903;TOOLONG <p> What role will Elon Musk play in all this ? " I 'm hoping he gives us the blueprint , and the blueprint is how to cut the administrative state . " The rumour that he was planning to donate ? 100 million to Reform was " complete nonsense ... We did go to Mar-a-Lago " - Trump 's home in Florida -- " he will give a donation , a reasonable sized donation , but it will need to be legal or above board . " However : " everyone 's missing the point . What matters with Elon is n't just the money , it 's the kudos with the young people . He 's a bloody hero . " <p> The tech entrepreneur has star power and reach . Most of all , as head of a new non-cabinet department , he 'll be spearheading the president-elect 's war on the administrative state , which Farage defines as " the organisation that destroys the lives of everybody in free enterprise , right ? What 's so interesting , is , you lift the Trump administration 's plan for America , it is to reduce the size of the public sector , increase the size of the private sector . Labour plans the opposite . And get closer to Brussels again . " Reform will " absolutely " take Elon 's war on waste as its model for what it would do in office . <p> While Starmer flirts with European socialism , the world is moving in a Republican direction -- because " nothing actually works " . We 're " living in a state that gets bigger taxes , that gets higher public services that are failing while communities are breaking down through irresponsible immigration on a scale that has never even been contemplated . Good ordinary folk across the western world are saying : ' What the hell is going on and how 's this benefiting us ? ' " <p> It was no surprise to learn he will attend the Trump inauguration on January 20 , or that " we 're having a huge party " in Washington DC . If Farage is at his cattiest contemplating the Tories , he 's happiest on Trump . When I suggested his biggest break-through in 2024 was winning a seat in Parliament , he directed me instead to " November 5 in the ballroom at Mar-a-Lago ; no press , no cameras , just the Trump family , friends , Mar-a-Lago members , supporters . I think I was the only British person in the room . And what an absolute honour that was to be there and see a truly historic moment . " <p> Trump likes me , he said , " because I never say anything in public " . <p> Farage will attend Trump 's inauguration on January 20 , adding : ' we 're having a huge party ' in Washington DC Credit : Twitter <p> The billionaire values him as an " outsider " who can come in and " he can just chuck stuff at me " -- anecdotes , ideas -- " and know that the conversation is not going to get blabbed or sold " to the press . " And do n't forget , it is n't just Donald Trump I 'm friends with ; I know half that cabinet . " Yes , Farage is willing to work with Peter Mandelson , the incoming ambassador , to secure a US/UK trade deal -- all in the " national interest " -- though if the media is to be believed , his generous offer of help has " split the Labour Party down the middle " . <p> The photo that best defined Farage 's 2024 was perhaps with Musk at Mar-a-Lago , a portrait of Trump in tennis whites in the background . But the sweetest was taken with one of his new grandsons on his knee , Farage dressed as Father Christmas . " Their names are Sebastian and Harrison , " and they arrived in the summer : " there were some very big moments , " this year , " but that , for me , was the most important . " <p> Why , asked a voter , is he so unusually good with people ? " Because I 'm normal , " he said . But Nigel Farage is far from normal . He was spending his Boxing Day with a journalist , for a start . <p> I asked him if he put time aside to spend with the grandchildren and - rarely - he equivocated . " You ca n't go through life if you have a burning ambition , which has clearly been rekindled in the last six months , without other things being sacrificed . I think politics , modern politics , with 24/7 media for anybody with children is a nightmare , because one has to suffer disproportionately with the other , right ? So , will I see my grandchildren ? Yes , yeah . Will I see as much of them as I 'd like to ? " No answer . He knows his New Year will be spent " pretty quietly . We 've got a few friends coming round , be about 12 of us ... Going to big public events when you 're me , and people have had a drink , it 's a nightmare ... And then straight back to work to hit the ground running with a new , healthy me in January . " <p> He contemplated his happy spot in England as the hunt galloped off to chase a fake news fox scent . " Today is a really historic day , and it 's rather a lovely day . There 's a wonderful traditional scene , and the beer 's pretty good too . So , all round , I 'm feeling pretty generous . "
