<h> Accessibility Links <h> 2024 -- the year when Rishi Sunak lost so badly that he finished it a winner <p> Robert Hutton <p> Friday December 27 2024 , 5.00pm , The Times <p> Farewell 2024 , and what a terrific year you were . This time 12 months ago , Bashar al-Assad was a happily married dictator , Donald Trump was a one-term president , and Michel Barnier was a former European commissioner who had no idea that by Christmas he would also be a former French prime minister . And if you think his three months in office was short ( Liz Truss does n't ) , spare an admiring thought for South Korea , where they had a late-evening coup so brief that many people will have slept through it . <p> Winner : Sir Alan Mr Bates . Then : wronged postmaster . Now : a knight who got married on Richard Branson 's island . A Strictly appearance is his for the taking . <p> Loser : Sue Gray . January : steely-eyed assassin preparing the Labour Party to hit the ground sprinting . July : ruthless political operative rearranging seating plans so rivals found their desks were barely inside the M25 . October : out of the door . But this is Westminster , where nobody goes away empty-handed , so in a heartwarming moment worthy of the finest Christmas movie , she finishes the year as Baroness Gray . <h> Advertisement <p> Winner : Keir Starmer . A controversial choice . Sitting in No 10 with a 163-seat majority , the Labour leader is nevertheless the subject of daily articles suggesting he 's about to be toppled because Diane Abbott has asked a hostile question . True , he has the sort of charisma more usually associated with tax inspectors than landslide-winning prime ministers , everything in the country is broken and there 's no money to fix it , and his first months in office have been noteworthy chiefly for a call to repatriate sausages from Gaza . But he 's still the prime minister ! He won ! That is the definition of a winner . <p> Winner:Nigel Farage . This was the year that finally saw the Ukip Brexit Party Reform leader elected to parliament . Over the summer his " just asking questions " approach to national tragedies was a particular hit with a large number of people who spent Christmas as guests of His Majesty on public order sentences . But somehow , whatever happens to the people who follow him , Farage moves on . Since the US election Farage has set about sucking up to Trump so powerfully that he 's being studied by a team from Dyson . And who can blame him , when Mar-a-Lago is so lovely at this time of year ? There are some Florida residents who have spent less of the past two months in Florida than the MP for Clacton . <p> Grand winner : Rishi Sunak . Sure , he spent the first half of 2024 living through a series of ever-increasing humiliations , culminating in announcing a general election from the inside of a car wash . And sure , he ran that campaign in a way that is best understood as the political model for assisted suicide . But look on the bright side : he visibly hated being prime minister , and now he 's not prime minister any more . How many of us are confident that next Christmas we 'll be out of a job we could n't stand and free to move ... anywhere ?
