<p> Riots on the streets of Britain , a stuttering economy , two royals with cancer , continued unrest in the Middle East and in Ukraine -- the year has , even by recent standards , had its fair share of challenges . <p> While it is easy to feel gloomy , there are many people whose acts of perseverance and innovation are worth celebrating . <p> In its fourth year , the Sunday Times Alternative Honours celebrates a special group of people . While it may not be an invitation to Buckingham Palace , the following people have been nominated by our journalists -- who have either been lucky enough to interview them or admired their work from afar -- for their positive , often under-appreciated , impact on 2024 . <h> Gis ? le Pelicot <p> GEOFFROY VAN DER HASSELT/AFP/GETTY IMAGES <p> " So that shame changes sides , " reads the graffiti , alongside the face of a woman who has become a symbol of feminist defiance . Gis ? le Pelicot , 72 , who was drugged and raped by her husband and 49 other men , waived her right to anonymity in the rape trial in order to shift the shame faced by victims of sexual violence on to the perpetrators . After Pelicot 's husband was sentenced to 20 years in prison , she told crowds outside the Avignon courtroom : " I now have faith in our capacity to collectively take hold of a future in which everybody , women and men , can live together in harmony , respect and mutual understanding . " <h> Nicholas McCarthy <p> JOSHUA BRATT FOR THE SUNDAY TIMES <p> When the one-handed pianist made his debut playing the Queen Elizabeth Hall at the Southbank Centre in London in March , playing works by Bach and Schubert , it was n't the first time the 34-year-old had defied expectations . When he turned up for his grade two piano exam as a teenager , the examiner noticed his missing hand and told him : " I think you have the wrong room . " McCarthy passed with distinction . He went on to secure a place at the Royal College of Music and became the first one-handed pianist to graduate in its 130-year history . McCarthy , who grew up in Surrey and lives in Colchester , said : " If people say , ' You 'll never do that ' , it can be wounding at first , but then it drives me like nothing else . " <h> Advertisement <h> Leanne Lucas <p> The dance teacher used her own body to shield young girls from a knife attack at a Taylor Swift dance class she had organised in Southport this summer . The murders of three girls shocked the country -- Bebe King , six , Alice da Silva Aguiar , nine , and Elsie Dot Stancombe , seven -- and prompted unrest . Lucas , 35 , suffered serious wounds . Despite her injuries , she has accentuated the positives . " There has been a lot of love ... from all over the world , " she told LBC . <h> Tony Hill <p> The Merseyside bricklayer volunteered to rebuild the wall outside the vandalised Southport Mosque after it was damaged by far-right rioters in the days after the dance class attack . Hill , 44 , sprung into action the following morning , erecting the wall brick by brick . Hill was undeterred by concerns that thugs would return and stir more unrest . " If we have to rebuild the wall again afterwards , we will rebuild it again afterwards , " he said . The director of Islamic Relief UK , Tufail Hussain , described the bricklayer as " an absolute legend " . <h> Freddie Flintoff <p> BBC <p> The retired England cricketer returned with his TV show Field of Dreams , which takes a group of boys from his native Preston to India to play the sport that changed his life . The series was delayed by a year after Flintoff 's car crash during filming for Top Gear in 2022 . " I am what I am now . I 'm different to what I was , " the 47-year-old said . " It 's something I 'll have to deal with for the rest of my life . " One of Flintoff 's students , Eli , who left his school in Blackpool without any GCSEs , said the show changed his life . " In India , I realised there was more to life than being a muppet . Our lives were all changed over there . We all came back with our eyes wide open . " <h> Ravinder Naga <p> BBC <p> After ? 35,000 went missing from Gurbash Kaur Naga 's Post Office in Greenock , Inverclyde , her son Ravinder Naga took the blame to save his mother from being sent to prison . He pleaded guilty to theft and was sentenced to 300 hours of community service , during which he caught tuberculosis . But he does not regret taking the blame , caused by the Post Office 's disgraced Horizon system . " I feel if I had n't done what I 'd done 15 years ago , I would n't be sitting here now getting my conviction overturned . I 'd have been sitting here now getting a letter saying that my dead mum was being exonerated , because that 's the effect it would have had on the family , " he said . After his conviction was quashed , the Naga family returned to their dilapidated Post Office for the first time in 15 years . <h> Laviai and Lina Nielsen <p> Laviai and , right , Lina Nielsen <p> JORDAN PETTIT/PA <p> The identical twin sisters , 28 , won bronze at this year 's Olympic Games despite both having multiple sclerosis ( MS ) . Laviai , who was diagnosed with the condition just before the 2021 Tokyo Games , won two bronze medals in Paris : in the women 's and mixed 4x400m relays . Lina won bronze in the women 's race alongside her sister . Lina has lived with the condition since she was 13 and was diagnosed at 18 , but only chose to reveal it in 2021 following her sister 's diagnosis . At times the condition was so bad she could n't walk or brush her teeth . <h> Advertisement <h> Mandy Damari <p> The mother of four 's life changed on October 7 , 2023 , when her youngest child , Emily , was kidnapped by Hamas terrorists . Damari , 63 , has travelled all over the world to meet charity executives , prime ministers and presidents , making rallying speeches to make sure her daughter , now 28 , is not forgotten . Damari , who holds dual British-Israeli nationality , told MPs : " Before Emily was kidnapped , I never came to events like this . I did n't make speeches in front of world leaders and I was probably the least political person in the room . I was just a mother to four amazing children . " Emily Damari is the last remaining British hostage in Gaza . <h> James Kirby , James Henderson and John Chapman <p> Left to right , John Chapman , James Henderson and James Kirby <p> These three Britons risked their lives to work as security guards for the World Central Kitchen , a charity that delivers food to Palestinians . In April an Israeli missile hit their convoy and all three were killed alongside four colleagues . Kirby , 47 from Bristol , was " always willing to lend a helping hand to anyone " , his family said . Chapman , 57 , from Poole , Dorset , was " a fine example of a husband , of a father and of a really good human being " , his wife said . Henderson , 33 , from Cornwall , " achieved so much in his life in a short period of time " , his brother Matt said . <h> Naga Munchetty <p> DAVE BENETT/GETTY IMAGES <p> The BBC presenterhas continued raising awareness of female health , talking about living with an undiagnosed womb condition for 32 years and contributing to an MPs ' report published this year . Munchetty , from Streatham , south London , was diagnosed with adenomyosis at the age of 47 , having suffered the symptoms since she was 15 . Similar to endometriosis , the gynaecological condition occurs when the tissue that lines the uterus grows into the muscular wall . Munchetty suffered pains that were so severe her husband once had to call an ambulance . Now 49 , Munchetty says NHS doctors expected her to " suck it up " , forcing her to go private for a diagnosis . <h> Chris Trimmer <p> Trimmer , left , with his colleagues Andy Jasper and Juliet Stubbington <p> ADRIAN SHERRATT FOR THE SUNDAY TIMES <p> The horticulturalist is leading a team at the National Trust in Devon to try to regrow the tree in the Sycamore Gap that was cut down in the middle of the night by Hadrian 's Wall in September 2023 . Trimmer , 54 , was " shocked " by the news but quickly sprung into action . " I wanted to know how I could help , " he said this year . " This is what we do . " His team quickly extracted the seeds and took grafts from the Sycamore Gap tree 's branches . The plan appears to be showing signs of success after seedlings grown from the seeds began to sprout . <h> Faron Paul <p> The anti-knife crime campaigner has worked alongside the actor Idris Elba since 2018 to try to remove dangerous weapons from the streets . Paul has survived two nearly fatal attacks , including being stabbed in the neck with a kitchen knife when he confronted someone who had assaulted his girlfriend . He runs FazAmnesty , a safe space for teenagers to dispose of their weapons " no questions asked " . Paul , 38 , then hands the knives to the police . The idea came to him after he took three knives off a group of boys who turned up to his niece 's party armed and demanded entry . <h> Advertisement <h> Nicola Thorp <p> SUNDAY TIMES PHOTOGRAPHER RICHARD POHLE <p> For two terrifying years , the Coronation Street actress did not know who her stalker was . Despite being on the receiving end of threatening , sexually violent and abusive messages from 27 social media accounts , police had refused to reveal his identity because they were concerned about data protection and privacy rights . After securing justice ( her stalker was jailed for 30 months ) Thorp , 35 , started campaigning for the other 1.5 million stalking victims in the UK to know the identity of their perpetrator . The home secretary issued statutory guidance this month . <h> Andy Evans <p> SUNDAY TIMES PHOTOGRAPHER JACK HILL <p> Evans was only three when he learnt how to inject himself with Factor VIII , a concentrated blood-clotting protein he had been receiving for his haemophilia since being diagnosed as a baby . He and his family had no idea that the blood was contaminated with HIV and hepatitis . Now 47 , Evans has become one of the most vocal campaigners of the infected blood scandal , in which 30,000 people were treated with contaminated blood in the 1970s and 1980s . Evans set up and chaired the Tainted Blood group and , thanks to his work and countless others , victims finally received the promise this year of ? 11.8 billion in compensation . Modern medicine allowed Evans to suppress the symptoms of his HIV and he lives in Evesham , Worcestershire , with his wife , Michelle , and their three children . <h> David Kershaw <p> ANDREW FOX FOR THE TIMES <p> He could have retired as a head teacher many years ago . But Kershaw , 82 , keeps saying yes to Department for Education officials when they ask if he is willing to take on a new school . He started teaching in 1965 and has since turned around four failing schools . Within 18 months , Kershaw , who was written off by his teachers as " not very bright " at school , took one school in a " drug-ridden part of Birmingham " -- where fewer than one in ten children passed maths and English GCSE -- to one of the highest-achieving non-grammar schools in the city . Kershaw is now chief executive of the Inspiring Lives Education Trust . <h> Yulia Navalnaya <p> The widow of Alexei Navalny , who was murdered by the Kremlin in a Russian prison in February , has continued to criticise Vladimir Putin despite the risk to herself . Navalnaya , 48 , has carried on her husband 's fearless campaigning as chairwoman of the Anti-Corruption Foundation that he founded . Within days of his death , she stepped into the role of Russia 's leading opposition figure . " I think he would love to keep me far from these political , dangerous things . But you just realise you do n't have a choice . Of course you could just keep silent . But it 's not me . I would never give up on Russia , " she told The Sunday Times . She now has a full-time security team . <h> Craig Mackinlay <p> GREY HUTTON FOR THE TIMES <p> After nine years as Conservative MP for South Thanet , Mackinlay was forced to step down after a rapid and nearly fatal onset of sepsis . Feeling unwell in the night in September last year , Mackinlay went into septic shock and was put into an induced coma for 16 days . His chances of survival stood at 5 per cent and doctors were left with no choice but to amputate his limbs . He made a remarkable recovery and returned to the House of Commons in May to a standing ovation . Mackinlay , 58 , who has since been given a seat in the House of Lords as Lord Mackinlay of Richborough , is campaigning for greater awareness of sepsis and ending " the appalling injustice " of the NHS 's three-year waiting list for bionic limbs . Mackinlay was able to get his bionic limbs quickly because he was treated privately . <h> Advertisement <h> Movers and Shakers : the team from the Parkinson 's podcast <p> The six presenters of Movers and Shakers , a weekly podcast raising awareness of Parkinson 's , have brought comfort and cheer to many of the 153,000 people in Britain with the condition . It was born out of regular meetings between the group -- the former Newsnight host Jeremy Paxman , the former BBC journalists Mark Mardell and Rory Cellan-Jones , the Vicar of Dibley writer Paul Mayhew-Archer , the retired High Court judge Sir Nicholas Mostyn and the lecturer Gillian Lacey-Solymar -- at the Ladbroke Arms in Notting Hill , west London . The presenters believe it 's also important " to remember the funny bits " of the condition by sharing anecdotes . They invite Parkinson 's experts to the pub for their weekly chat , which is informative and funny . <h> James and John Makanjuola <p> James and John Makanjuola have donned their marigolds and picked up their soapy sponges to clean Britain 's unloved public spaces . From dirty street signs to London Underground seats and a dump behind a nightclub , the 23-year-old identical twins want to " make the world a cleaner environment " . Despite being made homeless at the age of 15 , the brothers from Croydon , south London , managed to finish their GCSEs , get a place at university , and start their own cleaning business , Makagroup Services . <h> Merope Mills <p> After losing her 13-year-old daughter Martha to preventable sepsis in 2021 , Merope Mills began campaigning for families to have the right to a second medical opinion when a loved one is being treated in hospital . The result is Martha 's Rule , which an NHS pilot confirmed this month is saving lives . Nearly one in eight calls under the Martha 's Rule scheme led to potentially life-saving changes in patient care at 143 hospitals , early data has revealed . Mills , who works at The Guardian , said : " It 's clear to me that if we implement Martha 's Rule nationally we can confidently say that it would greatly improve care , change the culture and save lives . " A reader of The Times , who wanted to remain anonymous , said the process saved her husband 's life . " It felt scary to ask for a second opinion but the phone number was advertised throughout the ward and the response to the call was immediate and effective , " she said . <h> Craig Shuttleworth <p> JAMES SPEAKMAN FOR THE SUNDAY TIMES <p> The ecologist has dedicated 30 years to saving the red squirrel . There were once 3.5 million reds in the UK , but 140,000 survive compared with an estimated 2.5 million grey squirrels , which use up vital food sources and carry squirrelpox virus ; greys are immune but reds are not . With his team at Bangor University in north Wales , Shuttleworth , 53 , killed 7,500 greys between 2016 and 2020 . Shuttleworth carries out his work with the help of wildlife surveillance cameras placed across the island and a network of passionate volunteers . He describes tracking down grey squirrels as " looking for a needle in a sea of needles " . <h> Sarra Hoy <p> DOUG PETERS/ALAMY <p> The wife of Sir Chris Hoy , 48 , chose positivity when both she and her Olympian husband were diagnosed with serious health conditions . He has terminal prostate cancer and she has aggressive multiple sclerosis . Writing in The Sunday Times in October , Sir Chris praised the mother of their two children for finding " a characteristically courageous way to frame our situation " . " She reminds me : ' Are n't we lucky ? Lucky to both be diagnosed with conditions they have medicines and treatments for . Are n't we lucky that science is ahead of us ? ' " Last month Sarra thanked the public for their support , adding : " Finding hope is a tiny step you take ; it 's like planting a tiny seed that will grow if you tend to it frequently and often . " <h> Advertisement <h> Mark Laird <p> LES KASYANOV/GLOBAL IMAGES UKRAINE <p> As part of his Pick-ups for Peace initiative , this Scottish farmer has transported more than 500 off-road vehicles from the UK to the war effort in Ukraine . Each worth between ? 5,000 and ? 10,000 , they are donated by British farmers and used to transport injured and dead soldiers from the front line . They are sprayed in Nato green before being loaded with supplies , including generators , food and clothing , and driven nearly 1,000 miles through the Netherlands , Germany and Poland to reach Lviv in Ukraine . <h> Sarah de Lagarde <p> ROB PINNEY FOR THE SUNDAY TIMES <p> Eighteen months after losing her arm and leg in an accident on the London Underground , De Lagarde , 46 , defied expectations and climbed Ben Nevis and Mount Kilimanjaro . The double amputee , who has a prosthetic right arm and leg , conquered both climbs within three month : first the 1,345m summit of the UK 's tallest mountain in June , then Kilimanjaro in September . She had slipped onto Tube tracks at High Barnet station and was run over by two trains . " It is such a privilege to remember that I can still walk , " she said . <h> Evan Gershkovich <p> ERIC GRAY/AP <p> The American reporter became the face of journalistic freedom when he was arrested and detained on spurious spying charges in 2023 while reporting in Yekaterinburg . This year the Wall Street Journal reporter was released as part of a prisoner exchange . Within months , Gershkovich , now 33 , published an article unveiling the identity of the man behind the secretive unit that first arrested him . After disembarking the plane that brought him back on American soil , Gershkovich said : " It was great to get on that bus today and see not just Americans and Germans but Russian political prisoners ... It was a really touching moment to see all of them . " <h> Professor Sir Adrian Hill <p> JOHN CAIRNS <p> While he has won plaudits , including a knighthood , for helping produce the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid vaccine , Hill has been working on a vaccine for malaria since 1994 . This year , the R21/Matrix-M jab , which costs less than ? 3 a dose , was delivered to 15 countries in Africa . Scientists hope it could pave the way for the eradication of malaria within the decade . Malaria kills more than 600,000 people a year , 95 per cent of them in Africa and 80 per cent under the age of five . Even at the height of the Covid pandemic , it claimed more African lives than the coronavirus . " For the first time , really in the last couple of years , eradication is beginning to look really credible , " Hill , 65 , said . " I think the whole thing is doable , not in the next five years but maybe in the next ten . "
