<p> It was the year an ITV drama highlighted the Post Office scandal and Labour returned to government , when Oasis reunited and Donald Trump regained the American presidency . Here we take a look at some of the people in the news in 2024 . <h> January <p> Sixteen-year-old Luke Littler dominated the World Darts Championship -- until he lost in the final <p> ( Image credit : Tom Dulat / Stringer / Getty Images ) <p> The World Darts Championship at Alexandra Palace is dominated by the improbable emergence of a 16-year-old phenomenon , Luke Littler , who cruises through the draw before losing to the world No. 1 , Luke Humphries , in the final . Hamas 's deputy political leader , Saleh al-Arouri , is killed in an apparent Israeli drone strike in Lebanon . A new ITV drama , " Mr Bates vs The Post Office " , highlights the scandalous mistreatment of thousands of operators of sub-Post Offices , who were accused of theft and false accounting on the basis of faulty software . Junior doctors in England stage a six-day walkout , the longest in NHS history . It 's the first of a series of walkouts that continue until the autumn , when they secure a pay deal . Dr Claudine Gay , the first black president of Harvard University , resigns in the wake of her ill-fated appearance before a congressional hearing . Asked whether " calling for the genocide of Jews " was a violation of Harvard 's harassment policies , she had replied , " It can be , depending on the context . " America and the UK launch a barrage of air strikes on Houthi targets in Yemen in retaliation for weeks of attacks on shipping in the Red Sea . The biggest election year in history , during which more than half the world 's population goes to the polls , kicks off in Taiwan , where Lai Ching-te wins the presidency . <h> February <p> King Charles steps back from public-facing duties after revealing that he is to start receiving outpatient treatment for cancer . Northern Ireland acquires its first Irish nationalist First Minister , in Sinn F ? in 's Michelle O'Neill , when power-sharing returns to the region for the first time since 2022 . President Zelenskyy removes the head of Ukraine 's armed forces , General Valerii Zaluzhnyi -- a popular figure with whom he had been at loggerheads -- saying , " A reset , a new beginning is necessary . " Keir Starmer attracts scathing criticism when he ditches Labour 's flagship green investment plan . The ? 28-billion-a-year pledge , unveiled at the party 's 2021 conference , had been Labour 's most expensive policy by far . Tucker Carlson , the Trump acolyte and former Fox News presenter , visits Moscow , where he is granted a two-hour interview with Vladimir Putin , most of which consists of Carlson being lectured on Russian history . He is accused of being a " useful idiot " ; he insists that he was doing a public service . Vigils are subsequently held in cities across the world for Alexei Navalny , Putin 's most prominent critic , following reports of his death in a Russian jail . According to prison officials , the 47-year-old succumbed to " sudden death syndrome " after going for a walk at the isolated penal colony in Siberia known as Polar Wolf , where he was serving a lengthy jail term on trumped- up charges . Lee Anderson is suspended from the Tory Party after refusing to apologise for claiming that " Islamists " had " got control " of London 's Mayor , Sadiq Khan . Anderson later defects to Reform UK . Chaos erupts in the House of Commons after the Speaker , Lindsay Hoyle , is accused of defying long-established parliamentary procedure to spare Labour 's blushes over a vote on Gaza . Google 's AI chatbot Gemini is ridiculed for generating " woke " images of Native American " Vikings " , black Founding Fathers , and black and Asian Nazis . <h> March <p> Cillian Murphy is the first Irish-born winner of the best actor Oscar , for Oppenheimer <p> ( Image credit : Myung J. Chun / Los Angeles Times via Getty Images ) <p> The veteran left-wing agitator George Gallowayreturns to Westminster for a three-month stint after winning a decisive victory in the Rochdale by-election . " So miracles happen , " declares Raye , the 26-year-old singer- songwriter from south London , after bagging a record six Brit awards -- including Song of the Year for a track that her former label had refused even to release . Nikki Haley withdraws from the Republican nomination race after Donald Trump racks up primary victories on Super Tuesday . At the Oscars , Cillian Murphy becomes the first Irish-born winner of the best actor award for his role as J. Robert Oppenheimer . Kensington Palace releases a cheerful Mother 's Day picture of the Princess of Wales and her children , hoping it will end weeks of speculation about her health following abdominal surgery . It has the opposite effect , though , when photo agencies pull the picture from circulation , stating that it has been digitally edited . The Princess quells the conspiracy theories by revealing that she is receiving preventive chemotherapy , and requesting privacy after " an incredibly tough couple of months " for her family . The journalist Amelia Gentleman outs prominent members of the male-only Garrick Club , including Civil Service boss Simon Case . He tries to tough it out , claiming -- to widespread ridicule -- that he had joined the club in order to reform it from within , but later resigns his membership . He is readmitted later in the year , however , after the club votes to allow women to join . Anger about England 's polluted rivers grows when rowers in the Oxford vs . Cambridge Boat Race are warned not to enter the Thames owing to high levels of E. coli ; several rowers claim to have fallen ill . A judge sentences " crypto king " Sam Bankman-Fried to 25 years in jail for one of the biggest financial frauds in US history . Jeffrey Donaldson resigns as leader of the Democratic Unionist Party following the shock news that he has been charged with non-recent sexual offences . He contests the charges ; a trial date has been fixed for March 2025 . <h> April <p> Liz Truss 's book , Ten Years to Save the West , described her 49 days as prime minister <p> ( Image credit : Leon Neal / Staff / Getty Images ) <p> William Wragg resigns the Tory whip after falling victim to a " honeytrap " sexting scandal . Wragg had earlier admitted to passing colleagues ' phone numbers to a man he met on Grindr , a gay dating app . He said he was scared the man had " compromising things on me " , having earlier sent intimate pictures of himself . Iran launches its first-ever direct strike on Israel , firing more than 300 drones and missiles at it in retaliation for a strike on its consulate in Damascus that killed two leading Iranian generals and five other soldiers . President Biden urges the Israeli prime minister , Benjamin Netanyahu , not to escalate hostilities in response to the successfully neutralised attack , telling him : " You got a win . Take the win . " Israel responds with a limited strike targeting an air base near the central Iranian city of Isfahan . The independent review of gender identity services for children and young people chaired by leading paediatrician Dr Hilary Cass issues its final report . It concludes that the guidelines surrounding the use of treatments such as puberty blockers rest on " shaky foundations " . Liz Truss releases a book , " Ten Years to Save the West " , in which she lifts the lid on her 49 days in No. 10 and her persecution at the hands of the " deep state " . The Tories are hit by yet another scandal , this time involving the MP Mark Menzies , who is reported to have rung his 78-year-old former campaign manager at 3.15 in the morning , begging for ? 5,000 to pay off " bad people " who are holding him against his will . The 52-year-old MP , who had previously raided ? 14,000 from campaign funds to pay " medical bills " , denies any wrongdoing , but stands down . A group of runaway Household Cavalry horses gallop through traffic in London after being spooked by building works and throwing their riders . <h> May <p> John Swinney was elected as Scotland 's new First Minister , after Humza Yousaf resigned <p> ( Image credit : Jeff J Mitchell / Staff / Getty Images ) <p> Humza Yousaf announces his resignation as First Minister of Scotland , paving the way for the SNP 's second leadership contest in less than 14 months . His departure was precipitated by his decision to tear up a power- sharing deal with the SNP 's junior coalition partner , the Scottish Greens , who promptly responded by backing a vote of no confidence in him . John Swinney is later chosen to replace him . The Tories suffer their worst set of local election results in decades . They also do badly in the mayoral contests , with Andy Street losing by a narrow margin in the West Midlands . The sole Tory victor is Ben Houchen , Mayor for the Tees Valley . The MP for Dover , Natalie Elphicke , defects to Labour , to the disgruntlement of some Labour backbenchers . In an interview with Piers Morgan , a Scottish woman by the name of Fiona Harvey outs herself as being the model for " Martha " , the stalker in the purportedly true-life Netflix drama " Baby Reindeer " . But she denies that she stalked the drama 's writer and star , Richard Gadd , complains of being " hounded " online and begins legal action . The Tory MP Craig Mackinlay receives a standing ovation on his return to the Commons , eight months after he was rushed to hospital with sepsis , which resulted in him having his hands and feet amputated . Scarlett Johansson publicly rebukes the artificial intelligence firm OpenAI for launching a chatbot with a voice " eerily similar " to her own . The actress had previously refused a request by OpenAI founder Sam Altman -- a fan of the film " Her " , in which she voiced the character of an AI assistant -- to use her voice . To the horror of some in his party , Rishi Sunakcalls a snap election . He makes his announcement outside No. 10 in the pouring rain , while a protester blasts out New Labour 's 1997 victory anthem . Paula Vennells , the former Post Office chief executive dubbed " the most hated woman in Britain " over her role in the Horizon IT scandal , testifies before the Post Office Inquiry . Donald Trump becomes the first former US president to be convicted of a criminal offence when a New York jury finds him guilty of falsifying business records over a $130,000 payment made to the adult-film actress Stormy Daniels . In a historic election in South Africa , the ruling ANC party fails to win a majority for the first time since 1994 . <h> June <p> Taylor Swift 's Eras tour took a record amount in ticket sales <p> ( Image credit : Jo Hale / Contributor / Getty Images ) <p> Less than a fortnight after saying that he planned to sit out the UK general election , Nigel Farage stuns Westminster by announcing that he has decided to return to front-line politics , by taking over as leader of his Reform UK party for the next five years . Lib Dem leader Ed Davey keeps his party in the spotlight by staging a series of larky photo opportunities , in which he falls off paddle boards , descends water slides and freewheels down steep hills . The Tory campaign , meanwhile , goes from bad to worse when Sunak is condemned for leaving the D-Day 80th anniversary commemorations early . The Tories are thrown into further disarray by a string of reports about party insiders having bet on the date of the general election . In India 's election , Narendra Modi 's Bharatiya Janata Party suffers a surprise rebuff , losing its parliamentary majority . Edinburgh becomes a sea of pink cowboy hats and sequined outerwear as Taylor Swift 's Eras , the highest-grossing tour of all time , begins its UK leg at Murrayfield Stadium . Ian McKellen is taken to hospital after falling off the stage during a performance in the West End . The 85-year-old actor was appearing as Falstaff in " Player Kings " when he lost his footing during a fight scene . President Macron stuns France by calling snap parliamentary elections after his centrist Renaissance party is trounced by the far-right National Rally ( RN ) in the European elections . His gamble fails , dramatically , when the RN , led by Marine Le Pen and Jordan Bardella , win the first round of the election . After more than five years in HMP Belmarsh , and seven years confined to the Ecuadorean embassy in London , the WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange walks free following a plea deal with the US . <h> July <p> US Vice President Kamala Harris won the Democrat nomination to run for president , after Joe Biden stepped aside <p> ( Image credit : Scott Olson / Getty Images ) <p> Keir Starmer moves into Downing Street following Labour 's landslide victory in the general election . His party emerges with 412 seats ; the Tories are left with just 121 . Among the Tories rejected by their constituents are Grant Shapps , Penny Mordaunt , Jacob Rees-Mogg and former PM Liz Truss , who converted her 26,000 majority in South West Norfolk to a loss , in the largest swing to Labour ever recorded . Nigel Farage , on the other hand , finally wins a seat , on his eighth attempt . Donald Trump is photographed pumping the air with his fist , seconds after narrowly avoiding an assassin 's bullet at a rally in Pennsylvania . Days later , he is greeted at the Republican convention -- where his nomination is confirmed -- to chants of " Fight , fight , fight ! " Four months after becoming the first black leader of any European nation , Vaughan Gething announces his resignation as First Minister of Wales , having failed to fend off persistent questions about his acceptance of donations from a disgraced businessman . At Wimbledon , Carlos Alcaraz demolishes Novak Djokovic in the final . In the wake of his disastrously befuddled performance in a TV debate with Trump , Joe Biden abandons his re-election campaign and throws his support behind Vice-President Kamala Harris , who rapidly secures the endorsement of enough delegates to win the Democrat nomination . Trump reacts by calling Biden " the worst president by far in the history of our country " , and by claiming that Harris will be " easier to beat " . He subsequently chooses J.D. Vance as his running mate . At Southwark Crown Court , a judge doles out long prison sentences to five Just Stop Oil protesters who had organised demonstrations that brought the M25 to a standstill . Roger Hallam , the co-founder of the group , is given a five-year term for conspiracy to cause public nuisance . An IT update by the cybersecurity giant CrowdStrike causes Microsoft Windows to crash , leading to global chaos . Millions of people working in everything from hospitality to banking turn on their computers , only to be greeted by the " blue screen of death " . Thousands of GP surgeries are unable to access medical records or make referrals ; some hospitals are forced to cancel appointments for cancer treatments ; and airports have to resort to displaying flight information on whiteboards . The Chancellor , Rachel Reeves , accuses the Tories of having left an " unforgivable " ? 22 billion " black hole " in the public finances , as she sets out a series of spending cuts , including the scrapping of winter fuel payments for the 10 million or so pensioners who do n't receive means-tested benefits . <h> August <p> Returning to competition after health issues , Simone Biles took three gold medals at the Paris Olympics <p> ( Image credit : Naomi Baker / Staff / Getty Images ) <p> The UK reels from seven days of far-right rioting sparked by the killing of three young girls in a knife attack in Southport . Western leaders scramble to defuse tensions in the Middle East following the assassination of two leaders of Iran 's " axis of resistance " : Fuad Shukr , Hezbollah 's top military commander ; and Ismail Haniyeh , the political leader of Hamas . The XXXIII Olympiad , in Paris , had begun with an ambitious , open-air ceremony marred by rain , in which a metal horse ran down the Seine , and Celine Dion sang from the Eiffel Tower . Highlights of the Games include an astonishing comeback by the US gymnast Simone Biles , the swimming feats of Frenchman L ? on Marchand -- and an unintentionally comic routine by the Australian breakdancer Rachael Louise Gunn ( Raygun ) . Andy Murray bows out of professional tennis after playing his final game at the event . Charlotte Dujardin , the British dressage star and six-time Olympic medallist , had pulled out of Paris 2024 after a video emerged of her repeatedly whipping a horse . In the biggest prisoner swap since the Cold War , 16 people , including Wall Street Journal reporter Evan Gershkovich , are freed by Russia , in exchange for eight Russians . President Zelenskyy says the war is " coming home " to Russia after Ukraine mounts a surprise counterattack into Russia 's Kursk region . Nasa confirms that , owing to problems with one of its craft , the astronauts Sunita Williams and Butch Wilmore , who arrived on the International Space Station in June for what was supposed to be an eight-day visit , will have to remain in space until February . The British tech tycoon Mike Lynch and his 18-year-old daughter , Hannah , die along with five other people when his superyacht , the Bayesian , sinks in a storm off the coast of Sicily . Kamala Harris and her folksy running mate , Tim Walz , enjoy an ecstatic reception at the Democratic National Convention amid talk of " Kamalamania " . Liam and Noel Gallagher announce that they 've put aside their differences for an Oasis tour next year ; but fans ' joy turns to anger when they spend hours in glitchy online queues , and find that , owing to " dynamic pricing " , they are asked to pay as much as ? 350 per ticket . <h> September <p> Gis ? le Pelicot waived her right to anonymity for the trial of her husband , who drugged her and invited strangers to rape her <p> ( Image credit : Christophe Simon / Contributor / Getty Images ) <p> In a glossy video , the Princess of Wales reveals that she has completed her chemotherapy treatment , and is planning a limited return to public engagements . VP Harris is widely hailed as the winner of a televised debate in which a blustering Trump repeats an unfounded rumour that Haitian migrants in Springfield , Ohio , are eating people 's pets ; they 're " eating the dogs ; they 're eating the cats " , he says . Presidential hopeful Robert F. Kennedy Jr ends his White House bid , having generated plenty of his own animal stories , which include allegedly dumping a dead bear cub in Central Park as a prank . In a court in France , Gis ? le Pelicot waives her right to anonymity as her husband and 50 other men go on trial for raping her while she lay drugged and unconscious in her bedroom . " Only consequential presidents get shot at , " declares Trump after surviving a second attempt on his life . Former BBC presenter Huw Edwards is given a six-month suspended prison sentence after pleading guilty to three counts of making indecent images of children . Israel strikes a devastating blow against the Iran-backed militant group Hezbollah by causing hundreds of its members ' pagers and walkie-talkies to blow up . A subsequent strike on Beirut kills more senior Hezbollah figures , including its leader Hassan Nasrallah . Climate activists throw tomato soup over two " Sunflowers " paintings by Vincent van Gogh at the National Gallery , just an hour after two others were jailed for a similar protest in 2022 . The Government is engulfed in a row about freebies when it emerges that Labour donor Waheed Alli gave suits and glasses worth ? 20,000 to Keir Starmer , and thousands more in clothes to his wife , Victoria , and his deputy , Angela Rayner . In a BBC documentary , more than 20 women accuse the late Harrods owner Mohamed Al Fayed of sexual abuse including rape ; hundreds of other witnesses have since come forward . <h> October <p> Thomas Tuchel took over as the new England men 's football squad manager <p> ( Image credit : Michael Regan - The FA / Contributor / Getty Images ) <p> In retaliation for Nasrallah 's killing , Iran fires around 180 ballistic missiles at Israel , prompting fears of full-blown war in the Middle East . On the last day of the Tory conference in Birmingham , the four remaining leadership candidates -- Robert Jenrick , Kemi Badenoch , James Cleverly and Tom Tugendhat -- each deliver a 20-minute speech . Cleverly uses his to urge his party to be " more normal " , and is regarded as the star of the show , but owing to botched tactical voting by his supporters , he is excluded from the final run-off , which is won by Badenoch . A power struggle in Downing Street between Sue Gray , Keir Starmer 's chief of staff , and Morgan McSweeney , the PM 's chief political adviser , ends with Gray 's departure . Geoffrey Hinton , the British-Canadian scientist sometimes known as the " godfather of AI " , wins the Nobel Prize in physics , with his American colleague John Hopfield . Former Chelsea manager Thomas Tuchel is appointed as the new England manager , replacing Gareth Southgate . Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar is killed by Israeli forces in southern Gaza , ending a year-long manhunt for the architect of the 7 October attacks . After being fired on by IDF forces on routine patrol , he had taken shelter in a damaged building where he was later found , reportedly dressed in military fatigues and holding an AK-47 . Fans around the world mourn the death of the 31-year-old One Direction singer Liam Payne after he falls from a hotel balcony in Buenos Aires . Rachel Reeves announces ? 40 billion of tax rises in her long-awaited Budget ; she says the package will help " fix the foundations " of the economy and spur growth . <h> November <p> Jeremy Clarkson joins farmers to protest against the partial withdrawal of inheritance tax relief on farms <p> ( Image credit : Carl Court / Staff / Getty Images ) <p> With the help of Elon Musk -- his new cheerleader and the self-proclaimed " First Buddy " -- Donald Trump wins an emphatic victory in the US presidential election , sealing a historic return to the White House as America 's 47th president . Among his controversial cabinet picks is Fox News anchor Pete Hegseth , who is proposed as secretary of defence . Spain 's King Felipe and Queen Letizia are heckled and pelted with mud while visiting a flood-stricken town in Valencia . The Archbishop of Canterbury , Justin Welby , resigns in the wake of a report into the Church of England 's poor handling of an abuse scandal involving the barrister and prominent evangelical Christian John Smyth . Jeremy Clarkson joins thousands of farmers in London to protest against the partial withdrawal of inheritance tax relief on farms . William Hague replaces Chris Patten as chancellor of Oxford University after beating a large field of candidates , including Peter Mandelson and Elish Angiolini . As Israel and Hezbollah agree to a tentative ceasefire in Lebanon , the International Criminal Court issues an arrest warrant for Israel 's prime minister , Benjamin Netanyahu , and his former defence minister , Yoav Gallant , accusing them of , inter alia , using starvation as a tool of war in Gaza . A historic bill proposed by Labour MP Kim Leadbeater , which would legalise assisted dying in England and Wales for terminally ill patients , clears its first hurdle in the House of Commons . <h> December <p> A poster of former Syrian President Bashar al-Assad lies on the ground , after the fall of the Assad regime <p> ( Image credit : Chris McGrath / Staff / Getty Images ) <p> Keir Starmer announces a new " Plan for Change " , in a bid to get his faltering government back on track . Gregg Wallace steps away from his presenting role on " MasterChef " after the BBC receives complaints about alleged misconduct , including telling " sexualised " jokes . President Biden offers a sweeping pardon to his son , Hunter . The brutal Assad regime is brought to a sudden end when Syrian rebels seize Damascus following a lightning offensive . President Bashar al-Assad and his family take refuge in Moscow . South Korea 's embattled president , Yoon Suk Yeol , declares martial law , but is forced to backtrack hours later and now faces impeachment . <h> Sign up for Today 's Best Articles in your inbox <p> A free daily email with the biggest news stories of the day -- and the best features from TheWeek.com <p> Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over .
