<h> Pope Francis calls for 2025 to be a year of ' forgiveness and freedom ' <p> People visit the Vatican as Pope Francis delivers his Angelus on Thursday <p> People visit the Vatican as Pope Francis delivers his Angelus on Thursday <p> 0:00 / 0:00 <p> THE Pope has called for new multilateral initiatives in 2025 to counter " injustice and inequality " , accompanied by a greater readiness for personal and institutional change . <p> " Each of us must feel in some way responsible for the devastation to which the earth , our common home , has been subjected , beginning with those actions that , albeit only indirectly , fuel the conflicts that presently plague our human family , " Pope Francis said in a message for World Peace Day on 1 January , which marks the start of the Roman Catholic Church 's Jubilee Year . <p> " I think , in particular , of all manner of disparities , the inhuman treatment meted out to migrants , environmental decay , the confusion wilfully created by disinformation , the refusal to engage in any form of dialogue and the immense resources spent on the industry of war . All these , taken together , represent a threat to the existence of humanity . " <p> The 2800-word text says that a " year of forgiveness and freedom " was declared every half-century by ancient Jewish communities to " restore God 's justice " in relationships , and to remind rich and poor that " the goods of the earth are meant not for a privileged few " and that " no one comes into this world doomed to oppression . " <p> The messages recall Pope St John Paul II 's warnings against " structures of sin " , consolidated by a " network of complicity " , which can not be corrected by mere " sporadic acts " of philanthropy . <p> " We for our part feel bound to cry out and denounce the many situations in which the earth is exploited and our neighbours oppressed , " Pope Francis writes . " Like the elites at the time of Jesus , who profited from the suffering of the poor , so today , in our interconnected global village , the international system , unless inspired by a spirit of solidarity and interdependence , gives rise to injustices , aggravated by corruption , which leave poorer countries trapped . " <p> Advertisement <p> The message follows a year of continuing bloody conflicts from Ukraine to Gaza , accompanied by widespread dissatisfaction over the outcome of the latest United Nations Climate Change Conference , COP29 , in Baku , and other international initiatives . <p> It develops the themes set out in the Pope 's latest encyclical , Dilexit nos ( " He loved us " ) , calling for a rediscovery of love and compassion in today 's " heartless " world , which was published in October at the close of the RC Church 's three-year " Synod on Synodality " ( News , 1 November ) . <p> Presenting the message in Rome , the prefect of the Vatican Dicastery for Promoting Integral Human Development , Cardinal Michael Czerny , said that Pope Francis was concerned to integrate the biblical meaning of sin and debt , while urging " forgiveness , justice and solidarity as pathways to hope and peace " . <p> Speaking at the launch , a former Italian landmine producer now advocating for peace , Vito Alfieri Fontana , said that the arms trade thrived on " the illusion of quick solutions , perpetuating conflicts for profit " , adding that the Pope believed that those responsible for " tearing communities apart " now had a moral responsibility " to repair the damage and support recovery " . <p> The Pope says that " foreign debt and ecological debt " both form part of a " mindset of exploitation " , by which rich governments and financial institutions exploit poorer countries to " satisfy the demands of their own markets " . <p> The RC Church 's Jubilee Year , he says , can bring peace closer by promoting the forgiveness for sin and debt contained in the Lord 's Prayer , and an end to " quibbling over the details of agreements and human compromises " . <p> Among proposed projects , the Pope calls for the reduction or cancellation of debts which threaten " the future of many nations " , and the creation of a " global financial charter based on solidarity and harmony between peoples " to prevent this from becoming just " an isolated act of charity that simply reboots the vicious cycle of financing and indebtedness " . <p> The Pope also urges a new global fund to eradicate hunger and foster education , supported by " a fixed percentage of the money earmarked for armaments " , and a " firm commitment to respect for the dignity of human life from conception to natural death " , to encourage young people to " look forward to bringing new lives into the world " . <p> He writes : " We need to work at eliminating every pretext that encourages young people to regard their future as hopeless or dominated by the thirst to avenge the blood of their dear ones . <p> " Hope overflows in generosity ; it is free of calculation , makes no hidden demands , is unconcerned with gain , but aims at one thing alone : to raise up those who have fallen , to heal hearts that are broken and to set us free from every kind of bondage. "
