<h> The second instalment in our three-part round-up of the obituaries of 2024 , featuring figures from the worlds of sport , politics , entertainment and science <p> In April 1945 , the Daily Express wrote a blistering six-line obituary of Adolf Hitler that ended : " His days upon the earth he sought to conquer were too long . " How the art of recording a life has changed . At The Times we endeavour to memorialise the sinners as well as the saints because they are as much a celebration of the quirks of a life as a taste of troubled times . We gave the noxious Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar as much space as we did Alexei Navalny , Putin 's most feared opponent who died in February a hero . Ebrahim Raisi , the Iranian president known as " the butcher of Tehran " , rubbed shoulders with a French resistance heroine called Madeleine Riffaud ; the brave dementia campaigner Wendy Mitchell with Frank Coppa , a corpulent mafia boss who fed hungry hitmen fried chicken before an execution . <p> Navalny never did it for the glory , though he understood that the public eye was crucial in his fight for justice . Others who died this year were more shy of the limelight . Dame Maggie Smith was one of the most celebrated actresses of our time but a recluse , once defining her glittering career in a sentence : " One went to school , one wanted to act , one started to act and one 's still acting . " Frank Auerbach 's paintings sold for millions but he maintained a monastic existence , claiming not to have had a bank account until the age of 50 , barely drinking and rarely socialising . " I am the beast in the burrow , " he declared , " who does not wish to be invaded . " <p> The limelight can be a lonely place , particularly when thrust into it at a young age ; money and fame seemed only to bring addiction and unhappiness to the One Direction singer Liam Payne , who died in October after falling from his hotel balcony . <p> Some never truly discern the outsized mark they leave on the world -- Maureen Sweeney was an Irish postmistress who took the weather recordings that convinced Eisenhower to delay D-Day -- while a few are remembered primarily for their better halves , their own dreams getting lost in the fold ; a film-maker in her own right , Eleanor Coppola braved her husband Francis Ford 's creative tempests and Judy Belushi-Pisano had to smother her own . " John 's work quickly became the first priority , " she said . " His struggles , his disappointments , his successes -- these too became mine . " <p> Some legacies are embalmed in a single product -- for Roberto " Loli " Linguanotto , tiramisu , which he invented after accidentally dropping a mascarpone snack into a bowl of gelato , or for the countercultural activist John Sinclair , the John Lennon song that bore his name . Sometimes they are immortalised in a God-like honorific : of the sporting titans we lost this year , the German footballer Franz Beckenbauer was known as " Der Kaiser " , the cricketer Derek Underwood " Deadly " for a quicksilver bowling style that made him sometimes unplayable and Barry John , the legendary fly half , " the King " . <h> Advertisement <p> Often , however , our golden figures are best remembered through whimsies entirely divorced from their expertise , and it is in these moments something of their true self flickers through . Ian Lavender was right to predict that his obituary would begin with the role he was best known for -- the cossetted Private Pike in Dad 's Army -- but what he perhaps did n't foresee was that the image we left our readers with was that he was also a sufferer of chronic narcolepsy and was known to fall head first into a bowl of soup at dinner parties . <p> Alex Salmond , economist , politician and former leader of the SNP , born on December 31 , 1954 . He died after collapsing at a conference in North Macedonia on October 12 , 2024 , aged 69 <p> Alex Salmond <p> ALAMY <p> Alex Salmond , though flawed as an individual , left an indelible mark on his nation . History will recognise him as a towering figure on the Scottish and UK political scenes -- a man who transformed the SNP into a modern , centre-left party that could , for the first time , challenge Labour , and who brought his country closer to breaking away from Britain than any nationalist had done before . He took the concept of independence from the fringes of politics and placed it centre stage , persuading voters that it was achievable , and , in his words " normal " . <p> He had first grabbed the headlines in 1988 when he was ordered out of the Commons for a week , after interrupting the annual budget speech to protest against the Conservative government 's decision to introduce a poll tax in Scotland . <p> A natural populist and a tough Commons performer , he was brash , outspoken and regularly in the bars with a glass of wine in his hand . Early on Malcolm Rifkind branded him " an infant Robespierre " and he was able to engage with all sides of Scottish society , using a collegiate style and the gift of humour to win over sworn opponents . Even today , with the SNP flagging in the polls , support for independence remains as high as it did in the landmark referendum he engineered in 2014 . <h> Advertisement <p> Kris Kristofferson , singer , songwriter and actor , born on June 22 , 1936 . He died on September 28 , 2024 , aged 88 <p> Kris Kristofferon <p> MICHAEL OCHS ARCHIVES/GETTY IMAGES <p> Kris Kristofferson was seen as the hyper-literate hillbilly whose diet of Shakespeare and Salinger from his Oxford degree intellectualised the genre of country . Too erudite to be a cowboy and too self-conscious to be a proper star , the only country and western clich ? he might truly have lived up to was indulging in the twin demons of drink and drugs . And he ambled around in cowboy garb with a flask of whisky ( apparently ) jammed in his boot . " Kris made his own rules , " said his fellow country star Willie Nelson , " did it his own way . " <p> Born in Texas to an alcoholic father , Kristofferson 's life was just as gritty as his songs . He studied English literature on a Rhodes scholarship but later lived in a slum and got a job as a janitor . In 1960 he married his high-school sweetheart but he drank heavily to forget his mediocre achievements and they divorced eight years later . He was briefly put in jail for failure to pay child support . " I felt the freedom then of nothing left to lose , " he recalled . <p> A modest man who eased his well-documented stage nerves with self-deprecating jokes , Kristofferson never saw himself as blazing a trail , though his songs would transform the genre of country in the Seventies much in the same way Bob Dylan had changed folk rock a decade before . His songs , he said , simply carved new ways of reflecting the changing times . " Writing comes as natural as a bird to me , always did , " he said . " It 's the way singer-songwriters make sense of our lives . " <p> Shelley Duvall , actress and producer , born on July 7 , 1949 . She died of complications arising from diabetes on July 11 , 2024 , aged 75 <h> Advertisement <p> Shelley Duvall <p> ALAMY <p> It may have been her most famous role in a long and distinguished career but filming The Shining was also the worst experience of Shelley Duvall 's life . She likened shooting Stanley Kubrick 's acclaimed 1980 horror movie to serving in the Vietnam War as she avoided the axe wielded by an unhinged Jack Nicholson and was reduced to what Stephen King , on whose novel the film was based , called " a screaming dishrag " . <p> To create the psychological horror he wanted to convey , Kubrick went out of his way to antagonise his actors and keep them on the edge -- and Duvall bore the brunt of it . Filming took more than a year , during which time the director insisted on keeping his cast away from their families . " The role demanded that I cry for at least nine of those months , " she recalled . " Jack had to be angry all the time , and I had to be in hysterics all the time . It was very upsetting . " <p> The infamous scene in which a heavily distressed Duvall holds a baseball bat because she 's afraid that her deranged husband , played by Nicholson , is going to kill her , was shot by Kubrick 127 times , for no other reason it seems than to make her look more exhausted and drained . " It was brutal , like undergoing primal-scream therapy for a year , " she said , and when filming had finished , Duvall presented Kubrick with clumps of hair that had fallen out due to the extreme stress he had put her under . <p> Bernard Hill , actor , born on December 17 , 1944 . He died of undisclosed causes on May 5 , 2024 , aged 79 <p> Bernard Hill <p> ALAMY <p> Yosser Hughes , a headbutting , unemployed tarmac-layer from Liverpool , may have seemed an unlikely folk hero . But as played by Bernard Hill in Alan Bleasdale 's 1982 television series Boys from the Blackstuff , a folk hero he nevertheless became , with his hectoring catchphrase -- " Gizza job . Go on , gizza job . I can do that . " No other character so darkly epitomised the desperation of mass unemployment in parts of the country under Margaret Thatcher 's premiership in the early 1980s.Although each episode focused on a different one of the five Liverpool tarmac-layers , it was Hughes who drew public sympathy , losing his job and his wife and resorting to wandering around the city with three bedraggled children in tow , pleading for work , any work . He could not even succeed in ending his life , being dragged from a park lake by police officers . <h> Advertisement <p> Hill , a diffident but burly figure who was relatively unknown when he won a Bafta nomination for the role , told how the despair felt by many of the country 's three million unemployed was brought home to him one day . While filming on a dismal Liverpool housing estate , the cast and crew were approached by a group of soberly dressed youths who had just come from the funeral of a 17-year-old who had hanged himself because he could not find work . <p> " That should be placed firmly at the feet of Thatcher , for murder , " he told The Daily Telegraph in 2009 with the contempt of one who never minced his words when discussing politics and politicians . <p> Yahya Sinwar , Hamas leader , born on October 29 , 1962 . He died in an Israeli mortar attack on October 17 , 2024 , aged 61 <p> Yahya Sinwar <p> MAHMUD HAMS/AFP VIA GETTY IMAGES <p> Israeli intelligence sources variously described Yahya Sinwar as violent , cruel , uncompromising , charismatic , highly disciplined , ascetic , incorruptible and possessed of remarkable powers of endurance . As the IDF hunted its wiry , white-haired foe in Gaza 's ruins after the October 7 attack , which he had masterminded , they also branded him the " face of evil " and a " dead man walking " . <p> Sinwar always expected his life to end violently and had said he wanted to die a shaheed ( religious martyr ) . He was born in the Khan Yunis refugee camp in Gaza , a coastal strip then under Egyptian control that would be seized by Israel five years later . His parents had sought refuge in the territory after fleeing from the Israeli city of Ashkelon during the Arab-Israeli war of 1948 and their son was arrested for subversive activities and sent to prison in the Far'a refugee camp . There he met various Palestinian activists including Salah Shehade , a future leader of Hamas 's military wing , and joined the cause . <h> Advertisement <p> Adopting the nom de guerre Abu Ibrahim , he was said to have served as a " whisperer " or adviser to Sheikh Ahmed Yassin , Hamas 's wheelchair-bound founder . He helped to set up the group 's military wing , which became known as the Qassam Brigades , and was put in charge of the Majd security force whose task was to hunt down Israeli informers and collaborators . In that role he earned the sobriquet " the Butcher of Khan Yunis " for his brutality . <p> Fran ? oise Hardy , singer and songwriter , born on January 17 , 1944 . She died after a long illness on June 11 , 2024 , aged 80 <p> Fran ? oise Hardy <p> FOX PHOTOS/HULTON ARCHIVE/GETTY IMAGES <p> While French cinema had Brigitte Bardot , Gallic pop had Fran ? oise Hardy . The two stars exuded a contrasting allure . If Bardot was all voluptuous glamour , Hardy was more gamine and enigmatic -- Vogue called her the " anti-Bardot " and credited her with creating an ideal of beauty that changed the way teenagers wanted to look and " rendered the exaggerated femininity of the sex kitten old-fashioned " . <p> Both in their different ways came to epitomise an image of chic French womanhood and Hardy went on to become an object of adoration to the biggest names in 1960s pop . " I was passionately in love with her , " David Bowie said . " Every male in the world , and a number of females were , too . " Mick Jagger declared her to be his " ideal woman " while his fellow Rolling Stone Brian Jones tried to get Hardy to join a threesome with his then girlfriend Anita Pallenberg . <p> Before having met her , Bob Dylan was smitten enough to write her a poem which began : " For Fran ? oise Hardy/ At the Seine 's edge , / a giant shadow/ of Notre Dame/ seeks t ' grab my foot . " Two years later Hardy went to see him in concert at the Olympia in Paris . When Dylan was told that she was in the audience , he refused to go back on stage for the second half of the show unless she visited his dressing room . He then invited her back to his hotel suite and played her I Want You from his new album , Blonde On Blonde . She was listening so intently to the song , " which sounded totally different to anything I had heard before " , that she claimed not to realise he was attempting to seduce her . " And that was it ... I never saw him again . " <p> Mike Lynch OBE , technology entrepreneur , born on June 16 , 1965 . His death was announced on August 22 , 2024 . He drowned , aged 59 , on board the Bayesian yacht , which sank off the coast of Sicily <p> Mike Lynch <p> TIMES MEDIA LTD <p> Known as " the British Bill Gates " , Mike Lynch had been a research fellow at Cambridge University when he started the business software company Autonomy in 1996 with a couple of colleagues . At first it was just a handful of " eccentric people working really hard on a project . No bureaucracy . No admin . Lots of late nights , lots of eating cold pizza . " <p> Approaching his bank manager for funds , he was " told to come back when I was older and had more experience " . Venture capitalists were no better . " There were a lot of City people who did n't know where the on switch was on their computers , " he recalled . Instead , Lynch claimed to have raised the money in a chance encounter with an eccentric former pop music promoter in a Soho pub . " He 'd never met me before , but he lent me ? 2,000 on the spot , " he recalled . " I bought a second-hand computer and , completely counter to the Silicon Valley model , funded the business out of operations from then on . " <p> Short , bald and for many years sporting a clipped beard , Lynch was invariably casually dressed and often appeared uncomfortable in social situations . Explaining what Autonomy did in layman 's terms did not come easily . " People often describe us as a search engine , but only 5 per cent of our revenue comes from that , " he said . The other 95 per cent came from software that can identify and match themes and ideas , sorting mammoth amounts of data to make it easily accessible . <p> Annie Nightingale CBE , radio DJ , born on April 1 , 1940 . She died after a short illness on January 11 , 2024 , aged 83 <p> Annie Nightingale <p> PETER STONE/MIRRORPIX/GETTY IMAGES <p> Annie Nightingale was a radio pioneer , the first female disc jockey to break into the " boys ' club " of BBC Radio 1 , who then outlasted them all to remain on air for more than four decades as the station 's longest-serving broadcaster . <p> Her trademarks were a husky voice , sunglasses worn indoors , a self-deprecating sense of humour -- " I sometimes think I was put on this earth to put people on guest lists . Even my dentist asked me to put him on a guest list the other day " -- a personal friendship with many of the stars whose records she played and , perhaps above all , an unbridled passion for music . <p> She was also a famous party animal who lived the rock'n'roll lifestyle to the hilt , culminating in 2001 with her being named " caner of the year " for her dedicated appearances on the Ibiza party circuit . Her epic parties at her Brighton home sometimes lasted for days . There were stories of drinking all night with Eric Clapton and Rod Stewart and the Beatles became personal friends , in part because she refused to ask them the usual anodyne questions . Her first interview with John Lennon opened with the words : " So you 're the difficult one ? " <p> Professor Peter Higgs , theoretical physicist , born on May 29 , 1929 . He died on April 8 , 2024 , aged 94 <p> Peter Higgs <p> STUART WALLACE FOR THE SUNDAY TIMES <p> The way in which matter acquires mass , what we perceive as weight , was a problem that had long baffled scientists . They figured that the answer to this question would unlock many of the secrets of how the universe was formed . Peter Higgs , an unworldly and donnish academic , was reading some new research papers on July 16 , 1964 , when he had his eureka moment . " I looked at one , realised what it meant , and then jumped up and shouted out loud , ' Oh shit ! ' " he recalled . He spent the weekend walking through the hills outside Edinburgh like a latter-day Wordsworth : " When I came back to work on Monday , I sat down and wrote a new paper as fast as I could . " <p> Put simply , Higgs 's theory suggested that all space is permeated by a " field " , now known as the " Higgs field " , that interacts with the particles within it , giving them mass . <p> From time to time Higgs suffered moments of self-doubt . In March 1966 , while driving along the east coast of America he suffered a panic attack and had to stop the car . And he grew to dislike the publicity that came with the discovery and winning the Nobel prize . " My life has been ruined by people recognising me on the street and wanting a selfie , " grumbled the sprightly man , who preferred to stay elusive . <p> Frank Auerbach , artist , born on April 29 , 1931 . He died on November 11 , 2024 , aged 93 <p> Frank Auerbach <p> DAILY EXPRESS/HULTON ARCHIVE/GETTY IMAGES <p> Frank Auerbach 's painting procedure was one of agonised slow beginnings , repeatedly rejected and begun again afresh . Yet each finished canvas was the result of a single day 's work and he applied the paint more thickly than almost any other artist , which sometimes made his canvases too heavy to hang . <p> In the early years he simply overlaid the canvas with the new image , hence the build-up of paint ; in later years , if the piece was not working after one session , he would scrape off the paint and start again . Sometimes he even persuaded a buyer to return a painting so that he could have another go . " I hope I still have what Hemingway called the ' shit detector ' , that I 'm still severe enough with myself if something is not finished to destroy it and start again , " he said in 2015 . <p> His first portraits , whose subjects were identified only by their initials , such as " EOW " for West ( Estella Olive West ) , looked as if they had fallen into the mud , the faces so much modelled in paint that they suggested that Auerbach might become a sculptor of bas-reliefs . Connoisseurs , while repelled by the viscosity of the paint , recognised that these were works of daring artistic brinkmanship made by an artist of serious integrity . <p> Although Auerbach painted the same view and the same face over and over again , he argued that he never saw the same thing . " I find myself simply more engaged when I know the people , " he said . " They get older and change ; there is something touching about that , about recording something that 's getting on . " <p> Handsome , doleful and intense , Auerbach accepted no commissions . He also rebuffed attempts to label him as part of the " school of London " , which includes Leon Kossoff , Lucian Freud , Michael Andrews and Francis Bacon . " I never wanted to belong to a school , " he said in 2013 . " The school of London idea was total rubbish . " <p> He also disliked being described as reclusive , monastic or a man trapped " in a prison of his own making " , which he suggested made him sound unhappy while in fact the truth was the opposite . " It 's not that I ca n't talk to people , " he would say in a lilted German accent of his famously limited conversational skills . " It 's just that I find everything except for painting not very interesting . " <p> Michael Mosley , doctor and television presenter , born on March 22 , 1957 . His body was found on the Greek island of Symi on June 9 , 2024 , four days after he set off on a walk . He was 67 <p> Michael Mosley <p> JOHN LAWRENCE FOR THE SUNDAY TIMES <p> Trust Me , I 'm a Doctor was the title of Michael Mosley 's 1990s BBC2 television series . Many did just that , not least with the 5:2 diet that he popularised in the BBC2 Horizon documentary Eat , Fast and Live Longer ( 2012 ) , which suggested that sustained weight loss could be achieved by dieting for two days a week and eating normally for the other five . The programme was followed by the bestselling book The Fast Diet ( 2013 , with Mimi Spencer ) , which within five years had sold 600,000 copies and been translated into 40 languages . <p> The cheerful pop-science presenter remained one of the most recognisable television doctors , memorably pushing his body to extreme lengths for the cause of good television . Though his wife vetoed " the idea of infesting myself with pubic lice " he ingested tapeworms for the BBC4 documentary Infested ! , ate a black pudding made with his own blood for The Wonderful World of Blood , injected snake venom into his veins and swallowed a camera for Inside the Human Body , allowing the viewer a close-up of his inner workings . " The really unpleasant part was that the night before I had to drink four litres of laxative . I was meant to be going to dinner with the director-general of the BBC and the gastroenterologist said , ' Not a good idea ' . " <p> OJ Simpson , American football star and convict , born on July 9 , 1947 . He died of cancer on April 10 , 2024 , aged 76 <p> OJ Simpson <p> VINCE BUCCI/AFP/GETTY IMAGES <p> Did OJ Simpson murder his ex-wife Nicole Brown Simpson and her friend Ron Goldman or did n't he ? There was a time when this was the only question that mattered around the water coolers of corporate America and indeed pubs , college campuses and even churches across the world . For nine months in 1995 America demanded an answer . <p> The trial that gave it one became a lightning rod for pressing questions of race and to a lesser extent the voyeurism of popular celebrity culture . <p> Before the trial Simpson had earned his place in the pantheon of popular African-Americans , along with Sidney Poitier and Nat King Cole . Personable , good-looking and often funny , he was also an all-American hero who had won over parts of the country that most black people failed to reach as one of the greatest stars in the history of American football . Throughout the Seventies , Simpson earned the nickname " Juice " -- also a play on his initials OJ -- for his swashbuckling forays up the field . <p> At the trial , ? the first of its kind to be televised and one of the most sensational criminal hearings in US judicial history , the football star and comedy actor was controversially acquitted , though the evidence against him was strong . <p> In terms of entertainment for the masses , the trial did not disappoint . In the climactic moment , Simpson 's chief defence counsel , Johnnie Cochran , cast doubt on the prosecution 's key exhibit -- a black glove that had been found at the murder scene . Cochran urged his client to try it on and demonstrated that the glove patently did not fit the substantial hand of Simpson . Cochran then produced the most memorable line of the trial : " If it the glove does n't fit , you must acquit . " The jury did .
