<p> NEIL TURNER/IARCCUMPope Francis and Archbishop Welby at the Basilica of St Paul Outside the Walls , in Rome , at an ecumenical vespers , in January , duringthe IARCCUM meeting <p> More than 50 Anglican and Roman Catholic bishops came together in Rome for an ecumenical meeting , the International Anglican-Roman Catholic Commission for Unity and Mission ( IARRCUM ) . The Pope joined the Archbishop of Canterbury for a joint commissioning of the bishops before they travelled to Canterbury . <p> As the Israel-Gaza conflict reached its 100th day , the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) in The Hague began to hear South Africa 's case against Israel , which referred to " acts and omissions by Israel . . . which are genocidal in character " . An interim judgment did not order the end of the war , or an immediate ceasefire . Instead , Israel was required to limit harm to Palestinians in Gaza . <p> The UK Government 's decision to suspend funding for the UN 's agency for Palestinian refugees was criticised by aid agencies . The UK 's decision followed allegations that staff of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East ( UNRWA ) were involved in the 7 October attacks against Israel . <p> Bishops contributed to a debate on the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill , during its Second Reading . The Archbishop of Canterbury said that the Government 's attempt to clear a legal path for deporting asylum-seekers to Rwanda was " damaging " -- not only to those seeking protection in the UK , but to the country 's reputation and the rule of law . <p> Advertisement <p> February <p> BUCKINGHAM PALACE announced that the King would be postponing public-facing duties while he underwent treatment for cancer , which was discovered as " a separate issue of concern " during a hospital procedure for benign prostate enlargement . The Archbishop of York said that the King 's Christian faith would sustain him . <p> The Archbishop of Canterbury made a pastoral visit to Ukraine , and spent three hours in an air-raid shelter as Russian missiles fell on Kyiv . During the five-day visit , the Archbishop met Ukrainian Anglicans as well as leaders of the country 's Orthodox Churches . On 24 February , two years of the war were marked . <p> FRANCIS MARTIN/CHURCH TIMES The Archbishop of Canterbury and members of his party in an air-raid shelter beneath their hotel in Kyiv , in February <p> The Bishop of Newcastle , Dr Helen-Ann Hartley , stood down as a co-chair of the Living in Love and Faith ( LLF ) process , just two months after being appointed , in protest at the appointment of a theological adviser to the House of Bishops . <p> Professor Alexis Jay recommended a total overhaul of the C of E 's safeguarding structures , to shift responsibility away from individual dioceses to two new charities , which would be completely independent of church authorities . The recommendation was made in a report commissioned by the Archbishops . Her report received a mixed reception at the General Synod meeting that month . <p> The Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny died in a remote prison camp . The Vatican Secretary of State , Cardinal Pietro Parolin , said that news of the death of Mr Navalny , at the age of 47 , had caused " astonishment and sadness " . <p> March <p> PROGRESS towards racial justice in the C of E was " glacial " , the fourth biannual report of the Archbishops ' Commission for Racial Justice said . Out of 42 dioceses , two ( five per cent ) had done " little or no work on racial justice " , and 12 ( 29 per cent ) only " have plans in place to work on racial justice " , it said . <p> The Church Commissioners expressed hopes that others would join their efforts to " repair the breach " of the transatlantic slave trade , and build their impact investment fund to ? 1 billion . The Commissioners had previously pledged ? 100 million to create an investment fund . <p> BBC STUDIOSThe Princess of Wales in a video , published in March , in which she announced that she was receiving cancer treatment <p> The Patriarchs and Heads of Churches in Jerusalem condemned as a " wanton attack against innocent civilians " an incident in which more than 100 Palestinians died during an aid delivery . <p> The Bishop of Chelmsford , Dr Guli Francis-Dehqani , appearing before the Home Affairs Select Committee , said that the Church had no evidence that there was a " conveyer belt " of asylum-seekers cynically converting to Christianity to expedite their applications , as had been claimed . <p> Patriarch Kirill of Moscow welcomed President Putin 's victory in Russian presidential elections , although the vote was condemned as a farce by Churches and religious communities in Ukraine . <p> The Princess of Wales 's " spirit of optimism " was praised by the Archbishop of Canterbury , after she announced that she was receiving cancer treatment . Bishops invited people to join them in praying for the Princess 's speedy recovery . <p> April <p> THE Archbishops of Canterbury and York , together with other UK church leaders , expressed " deep misgivings " about the passing of the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill . They wrote that the Bill set a " precedent at home and for other countries in how we respond to the most vulnerable . This includes victims of modern slavery and children wrongly assessed as adults , whom we have a duty to protect . " <p> " Disturbing " reports of mass graves in Gaza , in which Palestinian victims were said to have been found naked with their hands tied , had renewed the possibility of war crimes amid ongoing Israeli air strikes , the UN Human Rights Office said . <p> A High Court ruling upheld a decision by Michaela School , in Wembley , north-west London , to ban Muslim prayer rituals . The C of E 's chief education officer , the Revd Nigel Genders , said that the ruling did not challenge the principle of freedom of religion or belief . <p> AlamyA rally in Kolkata in protest against attacks on minorities , in April <p> A review of the appointment of the Rt Revd Philip North as Bishop of Blackburn concluded that his nomination followed the proper processes . Campaigners had raised concerns about Bishop North 's views on the ordination of women . <p> Religious education in English schools often failed to prepare students to " live in a complex world " , a report from Ofsted said . The report , Deep and Meaningful ? The religious education subject report , asserted that it was " simply not the case " that unbiased teaching " equates to teaching a non-religious worldview " . <p> The Foreign Secretary , Lord Cameron , said that the Government supported a Private Member 's Bill that would make it a legal requirement for the Prime Minister to appoint a Special Envoy for International Freedom of Religion or Belief . <p> May <p> The Primates ' Meeting , in Rome , ended with an hour-long meeting in the Vatican , where the Pope " shared words of encouragement and affirmation " , the Anglican Communion Office said . <p> Advertisement <p> The Prime Minister , Rishi Sunak , announced that the country would go to the polls on 4 July . The Archbishops implored people to pray and to take part . <p> The Revd Paula Vennells , the chief executive of the Post Office from 2012 to 2019 , said that she was " very , very sorry " for the sufferings of those affected by the Post Office Horizon IT scandal as she appeared before the independent inquiry . A Bill quashing the convictions of former sub-postmasters was fast-tracked into law . <p> POST OFFICE HORIZON INQUIRY The Revd Paula Vennells , a former chief executive of the Post Office , gives evidence to the Horizon inquiry , in May <p> Patriarch Kirill of Moscow accused Ukraine of religious persecution , as Ukraine moved to ban religious communities linked with Russia . <p> Some , but not all , Anglican Primates met in Rome . According to a communiqu ? , 32 Pro ? vinces were repre ? sented , but nine stayed away . <p> The Archbishop of Canterbury urged the Government and the Leader of the Opposition to remove the " cruel " two child-limit on benefit payments to families . The limit , he said , " denies the truth that all children are of equal and immeasurable worth , and will have an effect on their long-term health , well-being and educational outcomes " . <p> June <p> AS THE General Election campaign heated up , ten bishops signed an open letter , " Faith in Fairer Taxes " , calling on the party leaders to help to shift the narrative on tax and work towards reforming the system to give everyone a fair share . The Archbishop of York joined in a drive to remind people to register to vote . <p> The Archbishop of Canterbury concluded a tour of Central America , which had included worshipping with indigenous Anglican communities in Guatemala , and visiting the house of St ? scar Romero in San Salvador . <p> The Bishop of Winchester commissioned an independent review of Winchester Cathedral , after weeks of allegations about the conduct of the cathedral 's music department , and the resignation of the senior non-executive member of Winchester Cathedral Chapter , Mark Byford , a former BBC executive . <p> NEIL TURNER/LAMBETH PALACE Archbishop Welby plants a tree in El Salvador , in June <p> The immense suffering of the population of Sudan , where a civil war was intensifying , was being ignored by the rest of the world , Archbishop Welby said . He called on countries supplying arms to the warring sides to stop , and support peace . <p> The " immensely destructive " use of social media was among the factors identified in a new review of trust and trustworthiness in the Church of England . Another concern raised was that " ordination training and the different perspectives of theological education institutions bake in . . . tribal division . " <p> A warning of a " de facto ' parallel Province ' " in the Church of England was given in a letter to the Archbishops from the Alliance , an umbrella group comprising the leaders of groups , Catholic and Evangelical , concerned about the effect of the Living in Love and Faith outcome on C of E teaching on marriage . The Bishop of Oxford , Dr Steven Croft , said that such a move would amount to a " deep and disproportionate schism " . <p> July <p> THE Archbishops of Canterbury and York congratulated Sir Keir Starmer on the Labour Party 's landslide victory in the General Election . Sir Keir pledged to lead " a government unburdened by doctrine , guided only by a determination to serve your interests " and " to restore service and respect to politics " . Debating a King 's Speech that had been focused on the economy , bishops in the House of Lords pleaded that the new Government tackle the " deep roots " of the housing crisis . <p> AlamySir Keir and Lady Starmer outside 10 Downing Street , after Labour won the General Election , in July <p> The General Synod , meeting in York , agreed to remove impediments to the use of the Prayers in Love and Faith in stand-alone services , and to provide delegated episcopal ministry for opponents of the changes . A decision whether priests were permitted to be in same-sex civil marriages was deferred until February . <p> The Synod also requested that the Archbishops ' Council amend the terms of service regulations so that clergy would be entitled to 36 hours of rest in every seven-day period , including an uninterrupted rest period of 24 hours . <p> The Crown Nominations Commission ( CNC ) considering the nomination of the next Bishop of Ely was not able reach a consensus . The last CNC meeting in Ely had taken place three days after the Synod vote on the use of same-sex blessings in stand-alone services . <p> Bishops paid tribute to the outgoing England football manager Gareth Southgate , after he announced his resignation two days after his team lost in the final of Euro 2024 . The Bishop of Dudley , the Rt Revd Martin Gorick , described Mr Southgate as " the finest England manager I have known . A remarkable record and a remarkable leader and role model " . <p> There was an assassination attempt on Donald Trump , who was shot at during an election rally in Butler , Pennsylvania . He said afterwards that he had been saved " by luck or by God " . <p> AlamyDonald Trump , with bandaged right ear , greets his presidential running mate , J. D. Vance , in July <p> Advertisement <p> President Biden announced that he was pulling out of the presidential election , after weeks of speculation and pressure to step down over concerns about his health and capabilities . The Bishop of Blackburn , the Rt Revd Philip North , described the decision as " dignified " . <p> The International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) concluded that Israeli settlements in the West Bank and East Jerusalem were in violation of international law . The opinion , which was non-binding , represented the first time that the Court had delivered an assessment of the occupation . <p> A service was held at St Helen 's , Bishopsgate , in the City of London , at which seven men were " commissioned " for leadership positions in the Church of England . The Rector , the Revd William Taylor , said that it was a response to the " tragic failure " of the House of Bishops to uphold doctrine . <p> Thousands of mourners gathered at a vigil in Southport , Merseyside , after a fatal knife attack on a children 's dance class the previous morning . The Vicar of Holy Trinity , Southport , the Revd Dr Thomas Carpenter , said that members of the community were " horrified and unable to understand how this could have happened . Southport is a quiet , kind place . " <p> August <p> Violence towards migrants , triggered by far-Right groups , broke out in towns and cities across the country , after false rumours spread online that the 17-year-old man charged with the Southport murders , Axel Muganwa Rudakubana , was an asylum-seeker ( he had been born in Cardiff to Rwandan parents ) . Archbishop Welby said that the rioters ' behaviour was " not British . . . they defile the flag that they wrap themselves in . " <p> The Bishop of Gloucester , the Rt Revd Rachel Treweek , the lead bishop for prisons , questioned whether incarceration was the best punishment for rioters . In the light of prison overcrowding , she called for a " more creative " approach . <p> AlamyA health worker treats Lucie Habimana , aged 13 , an mpox patient , at a health centre in Munigi , in eastern Congo , in August <p> Dioceses had jettisoned the use of the word " church " in describing the " new things " being established in their parishes , raising questions about what theology was being applied , an independent report said . New Things : A theological investigation into the work of starting new churches across 11 dioceses in the Church of England reported that , in the past ten years , about 900 " new things " had been started . None of the 11 dioceses used the term " church " as its main description of such developments . <p> A growing outbreak of a new variant of the disease mpox was been declared a public-health emergency of international concern by the World Health Organization ( WHO ) . Child refugees were particularly vulnerable , the WHO said . <p> The organisers of Greenbelt thanked festivalgoers for their " patience , kindness , and understanding " after heavy winds disrupted the start of the event , which took place at Boughton House , in Northamptonshire , over the Bank Holiday weekend . A press release confirmed that 10,500 people attended the festival . A new venue , " No Fly Zone " , livestreamed talks and performances to reduce the environmental impact of flying speakers in from around the world . <p> September <p> THE charity Christians Against Poverty reported " deep concern " among pensioners who would lose the winter fuel allowance , after Parliament voted to restrict it to pension-credit claimants . <p> At a meeting of the House of Bishops in Oxford , bishops voted in favour of a motion from the Bishop of London , the Rt Revd Sarah Mullally , suggesting reforms to the Church 's part of the episcopal nomination system . Bishop Mullally 's proposals included the removal of the secret ballot within the CNC , changes to the majority required for a nomination to be made , and the award of a casting vote to the presiding archbishop if three consecutive votes fail to secure the required majority . The Bishops voted to pass the decision on to the General Synod in February . On the following day , the longest-serving central member of the CNC , Christina Baron , criticised the bishops for not consulting CNC members before drawing up proposals . <p> AlamyPeople stand amid the rubble of a house demolished by Israeli bulldozers in the West Bank village of Idna , in September <p> The Israeli government must " stop acting as if it is above the law " , a group of bishops said , in a letter in The Observer . They warned that there was now " little distinction between settler violence and state violence " . The letter spoke of a " drastic acceleration and intensification of settlement construction , land confiscation and home demolition in the West Bank , exacerbating longstanding patterns of oppression , violence and discrimination against Palestinians " . <p> October <p> A ground invasion of Lebanon by Israeli troops , on the first day of the month , was followed by a barrage of more than 200 Iranian missiles directed at Israel , in a further expansion of the conflict in the Middle East . <p> The abuse of power exhibited by Mike Pilavachi was enabled by a " wholesale " failure of organisational culture at Soul Survivor , where staff were afraid of the consequences of raising concerns -- and , even when informed , trustees did from " little to nothing " in response , an independent review led by Fiona Scolding KC , concluded . The Bishop of Stepney , Dr Joanne Grenfell , the lead bishop for safeguarding , said that a new working group would aim to ensure that Ms Scolding 's recommendations had an " adequate response " . <p> ST PETER MANCROFTThe Bishop of Norwich , the Rt Revd Graham Usher , inspects solar panels on the roof of St Peter Mancroft , Norwich , in October . He was mistaken for a " suspicious youth " and the police were called <p> Chris Packham and other celebrities challenged the Church Commissioners to rewild 30 per cent of their estate by 2030 -- to " give British wildlife the salvation that it desperately needs " . At the launch of the campaign outside St Paul 's Cathedral , Mr Packham read from a nine-metre scroll described as the " 95 Wild Theses " , which included reasons for the Commissioners to rewild their land . <p> Disciplinary proceedings against the Bishop of Aberdeen &amp; Orkney , the Rt Revd Anne Dyer , were dropped , even though the Scottish Episcopal Church 's Procurator said that there had been a " realistic prospect of conviction " . Four bishops , including the Primus , then made a statement in which they urged Bishop Dyer to " consider whether she is still the right person to lead the diocese " . Bishop Dyer responded by saying : " There is no prospect that I will allow them to pressure me into quitting a role I cherish . " <p> All sexual activity should be " within a committed relationship " -- whether marriage or a civil partnership -- the Archbishop of Canterbury said during an interview on the podcast The Rest is Politics . <p> The Chancellor 's focus on education and health in her first Budget since the new Government came to power was welcomed ; but charities expressed concern about the limits of the Budget 's help for those most in need . <p> The Knesset 's decision to ban the United Nations Relief and Works Agency in Israel , including annexed East Jerusalem , Gaza , and the West Bank , was condemned by Christian Aid as part of a broader campaign to challenge Palestinian refugees ' right to return . <p> November <p> THE Archbishop of Canterbury announced his resignation , saying that doing so was in the " best interests of the Church of England " . He had faced calls to resign in response to Keith Makin 's report on John Smyth , which had been released five days earlier . The report said that Archbishop Welby was " ill-advised about the actions taken in the Ely diocese " where Smyth 's abuse was first reported to a Church safeguarding adviser . " He was told that a referral had been made to the police . This was not correct , " the report said . <p> " It is very clear that I must take personal and institutional responsibility for the long and retraumatising period between 2013 and 2024 , " Archbishop Welby said in his resignation statement , referring to the length of time between the first disclosures of Smyth 's abuse to Lambeth Palace , and the publication of the Makin report the previous week . <p> DAVID RIDER/THE EPISCOPAL CHURCH The Most Revd Michael Curry presents the 28th Presiding Bishop , the Most Revd Sean Rowe , with the primatial staff during his investiture , in November <p> The Makin review said that , from 2013 , the Church of England knew " at the highest level " about Smyth 's abuse , but failed to refer it either to the police or to the relevant authorities in South Africa , where Smyth died while under investigation by the police . The review concluded that Smyth was able to abuse boys and young men in Africa " because of inaction of Clergy within the Church of England " . <p> Three retired senior police officers with extensive safeguarding experience told the Church Times , however , that Smyth 's abuse had been properly referred to the police by the Church of England in 2013 . <p> Donald Trump won the US presidential election , meaning that he would return to the White House as the 47th President of the United States . As in the 2020 and 2016 elections , he kept a steady hold on the support of white Evangelical Christians , taking 81 per cent of their vote . He also extended his lead among Roman Catholic voters to 15 per cent : 56 to 41 . <p> Christian groups welcomed the UK 's new emissions-reduction pledge , made by the Prime Minister at the COP29 climate talks in Baku . He said that the UK would reduce its carbon emissions by 81 per cent by 2035 from 1990 levels . The COP29 talks ended in acrimony , however , with Christian groups and developing countries ' representatives saying that countries in the global North had not committed themselves to providing enough finance for vulnerable nations . <p> The first steps in introducing assisted dying into English and Welsh law were taken , when MPs voted to progress the Terminally Ill Adults ( End of Life ) Bill . The Bishop of London , the Rt Revd Sarah Mullally , said that the vote " still leaves the question of how this could be implemented in an overstretched and under-funded NHS , social care , and legal system " . <p> December <p> The fallout from the Makin review continued , as calls were made for further resignations and suspensions . A former Bishop of Durham , the Rt Revd Paul Butler , was among those asked to " step back " from ministry while safeguarding reviews prompted by the Makin review were conducted . The National Safeguarding Team announced a four-stage process to establish whether individuals identified as having failed to report Smyth 's abuse should face disciplinary action . <p> The Bishop of Blackburn , the Rt Revd Philip North , said that an " atmosphere of blame and guilt " which had followed publication of the Makin review was creating a culture of fear which encouraged cover-ups . <p> AlamyUkrainian service personnel hold candles during a memorial ceremony marking 1000 days of the Russia-Ukraine war , in Kyiv , in November <p> The Archbishop of Canterbury was criticised by survivors and episcopal colleagues for his valedictory speech in the Lords , in which he said that " a head had to roll " for safeguarding failings , and that his was the only one that " rolls well enough " , before recounting the story of a medieval predecessor who was beheaded . The next day , he apologised for the hurt caused by his speech . <p> A rebel alliance brought down the Syrian regime of Bashar al-Assad . The alliance pledged tolerance for religious minorities ; but recent history left many distrustful.
