<h> UN report predicts ' unspeakable human suffering ' for 2025 <p> Israeli soldiers stand guard on the Palestinian side of the Kerem Shalom crossing as reporters tour the area where aid is awaiting pickup in the Gaza Strip , on Thursday <p> Israeli soldiers stand guard on the Palestinian side of the Kerem Shalom crossing as reporters tour the area where aid is awaiting pickup in the Gaza ... <p> 0:00 / 0:00 <p> THE normalisation of human-rights violations and a lack of political solutions to escalating global conflicts are causing " unspeakable human suffering " , more than 100 humanitarian organisations have warned . <p> The UN Global Humanitarian Overview 2025 was launched in Geneva on 4 December . It finds that 305.1 million people are in need of humanitarian aid , but that just 189.5 million people have been reached by more than 2000 aid partners . The report points to conflict and climate change as the main drivers of humanitarian crises . <p> In a statement issued in response to the publication of the report , a group of 109 humanitarian organisations , led by World Vision , say : " We are witnessing unspeakable human suffering due to the proliferation of conflicts lacking political solutions and the normalization of IHL international humanitarian law violations . <p> " Indiscriminate attacks on civilians and humanitarian workers , the bombing of schools and hospitals , and the use of starvation and sexual violence as methods of warfare are devastating communities worldwide . Climate shocks , economic fragility , and protracted conflict are exacerbating humanitarian needs , leading to unprecedented levels of displacement and an escalating global hunger crisis . " <p> The organisations urge stakeholders to " turn the tide " and prioritise humanitarian funding early in the new year . Other signatories to the statement include Christian Aid , Lutheran World Federation , Jesuit Refugee Service , Caritas , and Care International . <p> The UN report states that 78 per cent of civilian fatalities in world conflict occurred in countries in which there was a humanitarian plan or appeal . There are currently 42 appeals in need of $47.4 billion . <p> It gives a breakdown of long-term consequences for the people affected by conflict , including a reduction in life expectancy from the global average of 73 years old to 67 . One quarter of people caught up in conflict are undernourished , compared with eight per cent globally . The maternity mortality rate in conflict zones is nearly double the global average . <p> The senior director for external engagement and resource development at World Vision , Amanda Rives , said : " Children are being starved , exposed to unimaginable violence , orphaned , and killed . We know this is painful for the world to witness , but we beg you not to turn a blind eye . <p> " Now is the time to act and prioritise the needs of vulnerable children who are disproportionately suffering due to conflict , the climate crisis , and disregard for humanitarian principles . " <p> The RC charity CAFOD drew attention to conflict in Sudan . Its director , Christine Allen , said : " Right now in Sudan , the largest crisis in the world , local community groups and networks have access and are delivering assistance where the UN and other big international agencies can not . CAFOD , alongside other church and diaspora networks , are supporting them . <p> " The British Government needs to work with the UN , with partnership-based non-governmental organisations like ours , and directly with national organisations , to find ways to better support local first responders . The gap between the vast needs identified by the UN system and shrinking aid budgets of many major donors means that a new approach is needed . "
