<h> Sign up to The JC newsletter <h> Few in 2024 escaped Labour 's chaos -- least of all the Israelis <p> Under pressure from the left and right , the first Labour government in 14 years seems paralysed <p> Mandy Damari accused the UK government of delivering " A message to Hamas that they can kill Emily . Another nail in her coffin . " ( Getty Images ) <p> December 27 , 2024 15:40 <p> In some ways , Westminster is Nirvana in comparison to recent years . <p> We 've only had two prime ministers in a single year , and the change took place because of a democratic vote rather than chaotic party infighting and backstabbing by MPs . <p> Best of all , no decaying vegetables were used to measure the length of a leader 's tenure in Downing Street for the second year in a row . <p> More seriously , the significance and scale of Sir Keir Starmer 's victory in July 's general election should not be underestimated . <p> Although he was perhaps assisted by Boris Johnson 's thumping of Jeremy Corbyn 's Labour in 2019 , Starmer 's work to extract the antisemitic poison that coursed through the party under the veteran left-winger was no mean feat . <p> Returning to government for the first time in 14 years , Starmer 's party won 411 seats -- including marginal constituencies with a substantial number of Jewish voters , such as Bury South , Hendon , and Finchley and Golders Green ( whose new MP Sarah Sackman was instantly appointed to ministerial office , first as solicitor general and then as justice minister ) . <p> The Rishi Sunak-led Conservative Party suffered one of their worst electoral defeats and were reduced to a rump of just 121 MPs . But despite the Blair-style super-majority enjoyed by Starmer in the Commons , his style of government has been nothing like Labour 's longest-serving PM . <p> Everywhere there is caution and indecision . Sky News revealed in December that in 149 days in office , Starmer 's government had launched more than 60 " reviews " or consultations . While he talked a great deal about " change " in opposition , the only substantial change we have seen during his time in office is in his approval rating . And it is not a pretty sight for Labour supporters . <p> The parliamentary press gallery was baffled when , earlier this month , the prime minister decided to set out a " plan for change " and six milestones he wanted the British public to judge him against at the next election ( not to be confused with the five missions he set out in opposition ) . <p> Although we were assured that this was definitely not an attempt at a re-launch -- given the first few months in office saw reports of in-fighting within his top team and the eventual departure of his chief of staff Sue Gray -- it very much felt like it was . <p> Why would a prime minister in such an apparently commanding position project such insecurity ? Because they are a government in chaos ? <p> Too often , it has felt like Labour are on the back foot . They are regularly defined by attacks from their rivals , whether on removing VAT exemptions for private schools ( to the frustration of many in the Jewish community ) , means testing the winter fuel allowance or picking fights with Britain 's farmers . <p> This government at times resembles the dying days of Sunak 's doomed premiership , unsure of itself and ( unsuccessfully ) trying to appease everyone . <p> The same baffling approach applied to the party 's controversial call to stop some arms sales to Israel . <p> In September , Foreign Secretary David Lammy rose in the Commons to announce the suspension of 30 out of a total of 350 arms export licences to Israel , citing concerns over potential violations of international law . <p> This , in the words of one Labour source , managed to " piss everybody off " . <p> The pro-Palestine campaigners were enraged because the scope was too limited and the UK did not withhold the export of parts of the F35 fighter jet ( something an ex-Labour defence minister told the JC would be a disaster for the UK ) . <p> Zionist campaigners were furious because , for all of Starmer 's words about backing Israel 's right to defend itself , he was willing to capitulate under pressure . <p> It 's worth acknowledging the degree of pressure Starmer has been under on this issue , however . There are the weekly pro-Palestine demonstrations , visible in cities up and down the country since the start of Israel 's war against Hamas , some of whose participants bombard MPs with correspondence on the issue . Also , during the general election campaign , Gaza dominated discourse in the way no foreign issue has since the Iraq war . <p> Several candidates reported feeling intimidated . Jonathan Ashworth , a key ally of the Labour leader , was quite literally forced to seek refuge in a vicarage after being chased by pro-Palestine campaigners . <p> In many ways , the pressure worked . <p> Five independents were elected as MPs on explicitly pro-Gaza platforms -- and Ashworth lost his Leicester South seat . <p> Despite being blocked from standing for his former party and multiple opinion polls suggesting he would lose , Corbyn defeated Labour to retain Islington North . <p> The Green Party , which also enjoyed victories in four seats , used Labour 's more balanced stance on Gaza to attack it . Their co-leader Carla Denyer was criticised during the campaign for stirring up division by using a leaflet featuring a Palestinian flag and images of destruction in Gaza . <p> She defeated Labour 's Thangam Debbonaire in Bristol Central and would go on to use her maiden speech in parliament to call for an arms embargo on Israel . <p> Given this , it is perhaps it should not have been completely surprising when the JC revealed in November that parliament spends more time discussing Israel than it does the NHS . <p> Since their unexpected defeats ( and near defeats ) in constituencies with a substantial number of Muslim voters , some Labour MPs have felt the need to be seen to be critical of Israel . <p> Some commentators have lamented July 's election result as the first to feature sectarian voting on the British mainland . It remains to be seen whether this was a one-off or whether the Palestinian cause is likely to feature in future general elections . <p> Whether as a direct result of the pressure or not , as well as imposing an partial arms ban , Labour has restored funding to Unrwa and -- unlike Sunak 's government who objected to an ICC arrest warrant for Benjamin Netanyahu -- its ministers said that they would comply with the ICC 's jurisdiction . In doing so have come up with the slightly odd line that they consider Israel a friend while agreeing that the leader of the country -- which has been waging a war on multiple fronts -- should be put the dock . <p> It was no coincidence that throughout their protracted leadership campaign , Conservative candidates were keen to emphasise their pro-Israel credentials , presumably to win back Labour voters with buyer 's remorse . Winner Kemi Badenoch and her shadow foreign secretary Priti Patel have been vocally critical of Labour 's stance on Israel . <p> But the Conservatives are not the only voice on the right giving Starmer 's team sleepless nights . Reform UK 's Nigel Farage was elected to Parliament for the first time ever in July , along with four other MPs from the party . <p> The new MP for Clacton clearly also senses Labour 's dilemma when it comes to voters ' anger about their stance on the Middle East . Likely with that in mind , he accused Labour of pandering " to Hamas " and blasted the government for not doing enough to secure the release of British hostage Emily Damari . <p> Reform UK are surging in recent polls , and their presence in Westminster is not just a threat to the Conservatives on the right -- they are targeting those who voted Labour in July but are frustrated by the lack of " change " promised . <p> It is worth remembering that Labour only won 33.7 per cent of the vote at the general election , just 1.5 per cent more than Corbyn in 2019 . <p> Although 2024 has been a transformative year in British politics , next year -- and the reaction of our leaders to Donald Trump 's return to the White House -- means that , to paraphrase another US president , we ai n't seen nothing yet. ?
