<h> Get the latest Teesside Live breaking news on WhatsApp <p> This year Teesside Live has covered some of the country 's biggest court cases . <p> A terrorist , murderers , dangerous paedophiles and fraudsters have been among those caged at Teesside courts in 2024 . One of the most notable cases took place in May when terrorist Ahmed Alid was jailed for life with a minimum term of 45 years . <p> Earlier , the Moroccan asylum seeker attempted to murder his housemate , Christian convert and former bodybuilder Javed Nouri , by breaking into his bedroom and hacking at him while he slept . Alid denied murder , attempted murder and assaulting the two officers , claiming he did carry out the stabbings but without intention to kill or cause serious harm . He was found guilty of all four charges . <p> Here are the biggest cases we 've covered in 2024 : <h> January - Daniel Summers and step dad Lee Justin Busby <p> Lee Busby ( left ) and Daniel Summers ( right ) <p> Daniel Summers will spend the next decade behind bars for an attack , and for the rape of a woman , after which he told her to " kill herself " . The 29-year-old 's stepdad , then police officer Lee Justin Busby , was also jailed in January for advice he gave to Summers - when his stepson asked what he should say to cops about ' violence ' used against a woman . <p> Busby , who was not told about the separate rape offence , " coached " the defendant on what to say about the assault , the court heard . Former Cleveland Police detective constable Busby , who served in the force for 25 years , ' lost his job and career ' after being found guilty of perverting the course of justice , the court heard . However at the time , the force confirmed that Busby had not lost his job and remained suspended . <p> Summers , of Outram Street , Stockton , and 51-year-old Busby appeared at Newcastle Crown Court for sentencing in January after being found guilty following a trial . Summers denied rape and assault occasioning actual bodily harm and Busby denied perverting the course of justice . <p> Annalise Haugstad , mitigating on behalf of Summers , described the first attack as a " spontaneous " assault , and also accepted there was psychological harm to the victim following the rape . Mr Gaston , mitigating on behalf of Busby , stated that he is supported by his wife and children , as well as having " significant " responsibilities to assist his mother . Summers was sentenced to 10 years in prison . Busby , of Newton Aycliffe , was sentenced to 18 months in prison . <h> February - Christopher Walker <p> Christopher Walker <p> The final member of a huge drugs gang which was the subject of a three year investigation by Cleveland Police was jailed for ten years in February . Christopher Walker , 45 , evaded capture by police since 2013 while his many co-conspirators were arrested and jailed , with 31 drug gang members receiving more than 230 years ' jail sentences between them . <p> Operation Cobweb , one of the force 's biggest ever drugs enquiries , began after what officers believed to be a routine call from a resident reporting drug dealing in their neighbourhood . But enquiries soon revealed a highly organised gang - made up of defined roles from the so-called Kingpin to warehousemen and runners - was flooding Teesside with heroin , cocaine , crack cocaine and MDMA on an industrial scale . <p> Officers from Cleveland Police 's Organised Crime Unit ( OCU ) discovered that tens of thousands of pounds were making the return journey across the Pennines back to the North West , with people who were previously unknown to police and often with full time jobs acting as couriers making around 100 trips between the two areas . <p> Walker , of Tarnbrick Avenue , Freckleton , Preston , was convicted of conspiracy to supply Class A drugs at Teesside Crown Court on February 8 . Speaking after sentencing , Inspector Colin Helyer said : " The capture , arrest , conviction and sentencing of Walker brings an extremely satisfactory end to Operation Cobweb -- one of Cleveland Police 's longest running and most complex enquiries into the supply of Class A drugs . " <p> Organised Crime Unit Chief Inspector Sarah Robinson added : " My officers worked tirelessly to secure convictions for the other gang members who were dealt with previously . Today 's result proves police will never give up and we will use every available resource to bring to justice those who peddle drugs and bring misery to our communities . Finally I 'd like to thank our colleagues at GMP and at the Crown Prosecution Service for their vital contribution to our work . " <h> March - Ian Neasham <p> Ian Neasham ( Image : North Yorkshire Police ) <p> This " predator " was put behind bars for 28 years in March after being found guilty of a string of rapes and sexual assaults against girls . Ian Neasham 's reign of abuse began in the 90s and spanned 11 years , with the youngest victim of primary school age when the attacks on her began . The 64-year-old 's crimes were reported to police in November 2020 after one of the victims bravely confided in someone they trusted . Neasham was arrested shortly after . <p> It was after this point that two more victims found the courage to come forward , helping detectives to build the case against him . The pervert denied all offences but was found guilty of 24 offences at Teesside Crown Court following a 10-day trial . <p> Neasham , of Londonderry Village , North Yorkshire , was the subject of an extensive investigation by North Yorkshire Police . Led by officer in case Detective Constable Gillian Gowling , evidence was gathered from victim interviews and statements , disclosures made to counsellors , a search of Neasham 's home and an examination of digital devices . <p> This work culminated in 25 charges being brought against Neasham including : <p> 9 x counts of rape <p> 7 x counts of indecent assault <p> 2 x counts of sexual activity with a child <p> 2 x counts of taking indecent photographs of a child <p> 3 x counts of possession of indecent photographs of a child <p> 1 x count of possessing an extreme pornographic image <p> Neasham was jailed for 28 years followed by a four-year extended licence . He must serve at least two-thirds of his custodial term before being eligible for release . He will also be placed on the Sex Offenders Register indefinitely . <p> An investigation was launched by Durham Constabulary and the pair were arrested and later charged with a catalogue of rapes , sexual offences and indecent assaults . Brown , 73 , admitted the offences , while Smith denied any wrongdoing . <p> However , the 76-year-old later pleaded guilty to all offences following the start of his trial at Teesside Crown Court . Appearing at Teesside Crown Court on April 9 , Smith , of Heron Drive , Darlington , was given a 37-year extended prison sentence , with 35 years in prison followed by two years on extended licence . Brown , of Gresham Road , in Middlesbrough , was jailed for 28 years at an earlier hearing . <p> Investigative Officer John Smith , who led the investigation , said : " These two predators groomed and raped young children for their own sexual gain , robbing them of their childhoods and leaving them with mental scars that have lasted a lifetime . <p> " The abuse suffered by the three victims , who were only young children when their ordeals began , was simply horrendous - it is some of the worst I have seen in my 38-year police career . All three have demonstrated immense bravery throughout this investigation and subsequent court process , and the courage they have shown in facing their abusers should be commended . " <h> May - Ahmed Alid <p> A Moroccan asylum seeker who murdered a pensioner in the street in " revenge " for the Israel-Hamas conflict was jailed for life with a minimum term of 45 years in May . Ahmed Alid , 45 , stabbed Terence Carney , 70 , six times in Hartlepool town centre early on October 15 , 2023 - eight days after Hamas attacked Israel . <p> Minutes earlier he attempted to murder his housemate , Christian convert and former bodybuilder Javed Nouri , by breaking into his bedroom and hacking at him while he slept . Alid shouted " Allahu Akbar " - " God is great " - during the attack at the Home Office-approved asylum seekers ' accommodation before fleeing into the street , still armed with a knife . Doorbell camera footage showed Mr Carney , who was out walking in the town centre , cry out " No , no " as he was stabbed by the stranger . <p> Prosecutors at Teesside Crown Court said it was not a frenzied attack but a deliberate attempt to target Mr Carney 's body repeatedly before he walked off , leaving his victim for dead . In a holding cell at Middlesbrough police station after his arrest , Alid launched into a speech in Arabic saying that " Allah willing , Gaza would return to be an Arab country " and how he would have continued his " raid " if his hands had not been injured . <p> Alid , who strongly disapproved of Mr Nouri 's conversion to Christianity , said God was " displeased " with those who went astray . Mr Carney 's wife Patricia Carney said her husband went out walking early every morning because he enjoyed the peace and quiet on the streets . <p> Alid denied murder , attempted murder and assaulting the two officers , claiming he did carry out the stabbings but without intention to kill or cause serious harm . He was found guilty of all four charges . <p> He hid Ms Siviter 's body under her sofa , where she lay for four days , until her son Declan discovered her . Hall stole Ms Siviter 's jewellery which he then went on to sell for drugs , before he stabbed acquaintance Sam Harker , as he slept in his bed . <p> Two days later , on December 15 , he repeatedly stabbed Craig Woodier , as the two men sat in Mr Woodier 's car outside his home , on Laycock Street in Middlesbrough . The trial heard that Hall had sold Ms Siviter 's jewellery , which she inherited from her mother , to Mr Woodier in exchange for crack cocaine . <p> Mr Woodier told the court that he initially thought Hall was going to pat him on the back , as they returned from a pharmacy to pick up Mr Woodier 's methadone prescription . But Hall launched a frenzied attack with two knives . Mr Woodier was able to press his car horn with his elbow , and his wife Donna ran outside and dragged him out of the car . <p> Hall then bumped into Sam Harker and the jury were told that the two took drugs together , before Mr Harker says Hall broke into his home . Hall slept on the sofa before attacking the second man in his bed , as he slept . The former boxer was able to push Hall out of his room . <p> Hall , 47 , was found guilty of the murder of Glenna Siviter and guilty of the attempted murder of Craig Woodier . Hall was found not guilty of the attempted murder of Sam Harker and instead was found guilty of the lesser charge of wounding with intent . <p> Hall , of Thorntree Avenue in Brambles Farm , Middlesbrough , was handed a life sentence with a minimum term of 36 years . The time he has spent on remand will be deducted from his sentence , meaning he will actually serve a minimum term of 35 years and 171 days . <h> July - Leanne Harvey <p> Leanne Harvey smashed a pan lid over her partner 's head ( Image : Cleveland Police ) <p> During an argument on December 6 , 2022 , Harvey picked up a fish fork , and stabbed her partner to the back of his hand . Peter Sabiston , prosecuting , said that she then " tried to drill a hole in the back of his head . " <p> The victim was bleeding but " did not want to get his partner into trouble " meaning the prosecution have no further details about the severity of the injuries , and the level of force used with the power tool . <p> The court heard that the couple were staying in Great Ayton at the time , and had been drinking . Almost a year later , on November 21 , 2023 , they had an argument whilst in bed . Mr Sabiston said that Harvey had got her partner a can of cider , before she accused him of kissing someone else . <p> " She then made threats to hurt his mother and other members of his family , " Mr Sabiston told the court , " when they were in the kitchen , she took a glass pan lid and struck him to the head with it . The lid shattered . " <p> The man thought the attack was over , and turned his back to make some toast . But Harvey stabbed him in the chest with a carving fork , leaving him with a punctured lung , and bleeding heavily from two other puncture wounds . <p> Harvey called an ambulance to the family 's home . When he was being treated in hospital , the victim told medics about the attack with the drill the year before . The court heard that he has since " withdrawn his support for the prosecution . " <p> When the police arrived , Harvey told them that she " had hit " her partner . She later pleaded guilty to wounding with intent to cause grievous bodily harm ; and assault occasioning actual bodily harm . In January 2021 , she was fined for assaulting an emergency worker . <p> In mitigation , Jonathan Walker told the court that the two were " bored and stuck inside " during Covid as their relationship came to an end in 2021 . He said : " She 's extremely sorry . She knows she 's going to spend a protracted amount of time in prison - which has been a difficult experience for her . <p> " Her attitude is to her credit . She did call the emergency services and openly said that she hit him . What was a positive union became a destructive relationship through the mutual use of alcohol and crack cocaine . Her entire life has been soaked in drugs and alcohol . " <p> Harvey , of Elder Court in central Middlesbrough , was jailed for 47 months , less the eight months she has spent on remand . She will serve half of the sentence before being released on licence . <h> August - John Pickering <p> John Pickering ( Image : Cleveland Police ) <p> A scaffolder was jailed in August after his two XL bullies nearly tore a husky apart leaving her with life-threatening injuries . The beach attack was described as " savage and despicable " by Recorder Anthony Hawks after details of the terrifying incident were heard at Teesside Crown Court . <p> Prosecutor Annelise Haugstad said police were called to Redcar beach on February 5 , 2023 , after reports two very large dogs had brutally attacked a husky , called Naevia . She said the incident happened just after 3pm when dog owner Marie Hay was walking Naevia with her daughters , one of whom was just five-years-old at the time . John Pickering , 51 , was also on the beach with his two XL bullies when they launched an attack on the beloved pet . <p> Ms Haugstad said : " Neavia was being walked on a lead when the owner of the XL bullies released them from his vehicle without any leads or forms of restraint . They raced on to the beach . When they came within five metres , the defendant called them ' friendly ' and she Neavia 's owner responded ' likewise ' . The two dogs then approached making a snorting noise causing the husky to jump out of the way . One of them then lunged to attack . " <p> The court heard Pickering tried to " bear hug " the attacking dog , but there was nothing to restrain it and the second XL bully jumped in . The husky was on its back with one dog at its throat and the other at its chest , " Ms Haugstad said . The court heard children watched on as beachgoers tried to intervene but the dogs were too strong . <p> The two XL bullies then started to attack each other as they were being separated from Neavia , and Pickering managed to get them into his car before making off from the scene . <p> Ms Haugstad said : " When police arrived members of the public were shouting at the owners of the two attacking dogs that were driving away from the scene . Police caused the vehicle to stop - and the driver of the vehicle was the defendant , and the passenger was his then partner . There were two teenage girls in the rear of the vehicle and two very large dogs in the boot . Both dogs had cropped ears - a mutilation not permitted . " <p> Following the attack , Pickering , and his now ex-partner Nicola Banks , 39 , both of Middlesbrough , were charged with being the " owners/people in charge of a dog dangerously out of control causing injury " and were due to face trial . Prior to the hearing Pickering changed his plea to guilty - while a not guilty verdict was recorded for Banks , of Woodcock Close . <p> In mitigation , the court heard the dogs were not illegal at the time and Pickering had taken them to the beach previously without any incident . His barrister said he planned to breed from the dogs . <p> The court also heard the defendant has had " tragic circumstances " in his life . The defendant 's son was killed and he turned to drugs and alcohol . The court heard his relationship broke down and he became homeless , however , has always been in work in the scaffolding industry . <h> September - Mason Thornton <p> A party-goer who inhaled balloons of laughing gas as he drove down the A19 , smashed into a crash barrier at around 80mph . Mason Thornton 's passenger , Harlan Moon , was thrown out of the car . The 25-year-old suffered a fractured skull and bleeding to his brain in the accident . He has been left in a vegetative state and needs 24-hour care , Teesside Crown Court heard . <p> Former footballer Thornton , 21 , had four passengers in his car after they left a party and inhaled nitrous oxide - which were provided by Thornton - on October 23 , 2022 . Harlan Moon 's parents and his brother and sister watched , as Thornton appeared at Teesside Crown Court to be sentenced . The Middlesbrough court heard that two women had been out in Stockton that night to celebrate a birthday . <p> They met up with Thornton , a former Darlington FC player , in The Wobbly Goblin nightclub . At 4am , the group got a taxi to a house in Thornaby , where a party was being held . <p> Emma Atkinson , prosecuting , said that there were people talking about " Smartwhips " and inhaling nitrous oxide from balloons . When people were told to leave by the host , because of the noise , the group - which now included Harlan Moon - got into Thornton 's car with him . <p> Thornton drove around the corner , and gave them balloons full of the laughing gas . He then drove off , still breathing from his balloon . Ms Atkinson said that one of the female passengers took a video showing Thornton taking the drug at the wheel . <p> Thornton later said that he did n't know where he was going , that he had been taking directions from his passengers . He was travelling at 80mph when he veered off the carriageway - far too late for the exit to Billingham . <p> He smashed into the crash barrier at such speed , the barrier was lifted off its stand and became wrapped around Thornton 's car . Harlan Moon was found by a passer-by , lying unconscious in the road . One man , who stopped to help , said that he heard Thornton telling his friend Harlan : " I did n't mean it . I fell asleep . " <p> The other passengers escaped serious injury , but Harlan suffered catastrophic injuries . His skull was fractured and the right side of it had to be surgically removed , to relieve the pressure on his brain , the court heard . <p> Harlan is now in a vegetative state , completely dependent on others for every aspect of his care . Ms Atkinson said that there is " no evidence of awareness of himself or of his environment . " His family are in process of selling their home , to move to an adapted house , to cater for Harlan , when he is able to return home . <p> The court heard that Thornton had mental health problems stemming from childhood , after his mother died . His barrister said he is " absolutely distraught " and " has struggled to comprehend , for the last two years , the injuries he has caused to his friend " . <p> Thornton no longer plays football . He suffers from suicidal thoughts and has put his qualifications to work off-shore on oil rigs , on hold because of his mental health . <h> October - Janet Spradbury <p> A gambling granny who stole more than ? 10k from pensioners she was paid to look after put on an ' Oscar-worthy ' acting performance with her victims . Marske carer Janet Spradbury stole ? 10,300 from four elderly victims after becoming addicted to gambling , Teesside Crown Court heard . Summarising the case , Judge Chris Smith said the defendant was regarded as a " very good carer " but betrayed the people she was meant to look after . <p> He said : " You were visiting elderly vulnerable people in their homes to help them with day-to-day living . They regarded you as a very good carer , they trusted you and you betrayed that trust . " <p> Judge Smith said Spradbury took almost ? 8,500 from her first victim over a seven month period . He said in the summer of 2023 she targeted three other victims , committing fraud in a very short time period . <p> The court heard the grandmother , of Limes Crescent , took the money to cover her day-to-day living expenses after racking up gambling debts . " She hoped initially to pay them back but it never happened - the total loss here is ? 10,300 , " Judge Smith said . <p> Spradbury 's crimes came to light after an investigation was launched by Cleveland Police 's Child Abuse and Vulnerable Adults Unit ( CAVA ) in January 2023 after the first victim noticed a number of transactions in her bank account she did not recognise . <p> The defendant was soon identified as a suspect and she was arrested in August 2023 when she admitted what she had done . Following further enquiries with Spradbury 's employer , the three other victims were identified who had more than ? 2,000 missing . <p> In one impact statement , an 86-year-old victim said : " She is worthy of an Oscar for her acting , she was the perfect carer . " <p> Spradbury 's barrister , Chris Morrison , said the 56-year-old is remorseful , acknowledges she " failed everybody " and is " beyond embarrassed . " He added that the defendant committed the offences after becoming addicted to gambling . <h> November - Andrew Hobson , Samantha Nunn and Kallum Shilham <p> This trio who carried out a revenge attack that left their victim so terrified , he climbed out of his window and jumped , were jailed for a total of 54 years in November . <p> Kyle Mulcaster , who is now 21 , fell " almost vertically , head first " from the roof above his bedroom window . He was left a quadriplegic and needs 24-hour care for the rest of his life . <p> Samantha Nunn , 33 ; her now ex-boyfriend Kallum Shilham , 25 ; and Andrew Hobson , 45 , appeared at Teesside Crown Court to be sentenced . A jury found the trio guilty of causing grievous bodily harm with intent and aggravated burglary after a trial in September . <p> Shilham , of Harrowgate Lane in Stockton , was found guilty of the possession of a bladed article - he turned up at his victim 's home with a large kitchen knife ; and Hobson , of Sun Gardens in Thornaby , was found guilty of the possession of an offensive weapon - he arrived at his victim 's home , in Stockton , with a pool cue . <p> The Middlesbrough court heard that Mr Mulcaster " must have been terrified " when he woke up and looked out of his bedroom window , as Hobson was smashing a downstairs window to break in . Nunn , of Sandringham Road in Thornaby , had driven three men to the victim 's home , on Parkfield Way , at 4am on April 7 , in what prosecutors said was a " revenge attack " . <p> The third man involved has never been identified . Samantha Nunn was recorded on a neighbour 's ring doorbell footage , shouting : " Go on , get in . He is a c*** . Go on , get him . " <p> As the three men , all in balaclavas , climbed in through the smashed window and began running up the stairs , their terrified victim climbed out of his bedroom window and tried to get onto the roof . As Nunn shouted at him from outside , " jump , you c*** ! " Mr Mulcaster jumped . <p> He fell almost vertically , hitting a bin and then landing on the floor . Seconds later , the three men left his home . Hobson was seen going through the man 's pockets , as he lay paralysed on the ground , before they drove off . <p> The victim suffered fractures to his spine and a blood clot on his brain and underwent a craniotomy , at James Cook University Hospital , to relieve the pressure on his brain <p> During the trial , defence barristers said that the group , who had taken drugs , had turned up at Mr Mulcaster 's home to retrieve drugs . Andrew Hobson claimed he had become involved after he was unable to pay a drug debt to Shilham . <p> Mrs Justice Lambert , sitting at Newcastle Crown Court , said : " It was an audacious plan to murder a man in plain sight and you very nearly succeeded in your objective . " At a previous hearing , Mr O'Hara said that he had no idea that Ingleby Barwick 's Kwan was the community nurse who administered the fake Covid vaccine during a visit to the home he shared with the defendant 's mother in Newcastle city centre . The jab caused intense pain , he felt as though his arm was on fire and he felt he should have died . <p> Mr O'Hara needed weeks of hospital treatment and plastic surgery after having some of the flesh on his arm removed . Kwan , who was obsessed with money and developed a deep knowledge of poisons , planned his murder bid for months by writing fake letters , supposedly from the NHS , offering Mr O'Hara a home visit in January . <p> The married 53-year-old was motivated by greed after finding out that his mother , Jenny Leung , had made a will which allowed Mr O'Hara to stay in her home should she die before him . The couple have split up since her son 's attempt on his life . <p> Peter Makepeace KC , prosecuting , said at a previous hearing : " The motive for this attempt to kill was to remove an impediment to his inheritance . " Kwan , a Sunderland-based GP , refused to tell police which poison he had used as medics tried to save Mr O'Hara . <p> Officers scoured CCTV and were able to track Kwan , still disguised as a nurse , back to a city centre hotel and then to his home on Brading Court in Ingleby Barwick . <p> In his garage they discovered an array of dangerous chemicals which the GP had amassed . On his computer they found the instructions on how to make the chemical weapon ricin . <p> Paul Greaney KC , defending , said the GP was previously of positive good character , and had " ruined his life " . He described Kwan 's disguise , when he passed himself off as a nurse , as " amateurish " and " clumsy " . <p> Kwan was sentenced to 31 years and five months behind bars in November . He was branded as a " dangerous offender " by Mrs Justice Lambert . <p> The court also heard of Kwan 's obsession with money . The judge referred to intercepted correspondence sent from Kwan to his wife from prison . <h> Join Teesside Live 's WhatsApp community for top stories and breaking news sent directly to your phone <p> Teesside Live is now on WhatsApp and we want you to join our community . <p> Through the app , we 'll send you the latest breaking news , top stories , exclusives and much more straight to your phone .
