<h> LATEST EDITORIAL <h> Editorial : The West wo n't rein in Israel , because its savagery is ours <p> Relatives and friends mourn over the bodies of five Palestinian journalists who were killed by an Israeli airstrike in Gaza City at the Al-Aqsa Hospital in Deir al-Balah , December 26 , 2024 <p> ISRAEL bombing the airport in Yemen 's capital Sana'a when World Health Organisation chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus was actually at it shows a brazen contempt for the United Nations . <p> It is not new . Israel has expressed this contempt repeatedly . Most dramatically when its ambassador to the UN Gilad Erdan used a miniature shredder to shred the UN Charter after the general assembly voted in favour of giving Palestine full membership in May . <p> But it is seen too in the bombardment of UN peacekeepers in Lebanon . In the evidence-free assertion that the UN agency for Palestinian refugees UNRWA harbours Hamas fighters and subsequent decree banning the agency from operating in Israel-controlled territory -- meaning the whole of Palestine . <p> Benjamin Netanyahu accuses the United Nations of intrinsic hostility to Israel , calling it an " anti-Israel flat Earth society " which has " an automatic majority willing to demonise the Jewish state . " <p> The siege mentality is deliberate : only by presenting this fortress state , so extravagantly armed by its Washington sponsors that it can extend its bombing campaigns across Lebanon , Syria and Yemen after over a year of carpet-bombing Gaza , as under constant existential menace can he justify its frenetic aggression . <p> Enforcing this narrative is why Israel has become more authoritarian in step with its increasing belligerence , codifying institutional racism through measures like the Nation-State Law and pending legislation that could bar parties representing Palestinian citizens of Israel ( and the Communist Party of Israel to boot ) from standing in elections . <p> As its suspended communist MP Ofer Cassif warns , there is no positive outcome possible from this vicious cycle : an unendable , unwinnable war against the world will bring Israelis neither security nor peace . <p> Israel is a rogue state , a danger to itself and others , but it will not be stopped by other rogue states . Just as the agony of the Palestinians continues due to the US policy of unlimited support for Israel , we can not expect the so-called " free world " to step in on Yemen 's behalf . <p> Least of all Britain . When evidence of Saudi Arabia deliberately bombing Yemeni schools and hospitals became undeniable , even the United States paused arms sales -- but Britain did not . <p> Expecting our government to be persuaded or even shamed into upholding international law is a fool 's errand . <p> There is much to criticise in the United Nations : its undemocratic structure , the way the veto power can be wielded to shield perpetrators of war crimes . <p> Even so , since the beginning of the 21st century a clear division has emerged between the US-led West , awarding itself the right to violate international law by invading , bombing and assassinating whoever it likes , and emerging powers which support the United Nations -- a creation of the Allied victory over fascism , intended to prevent the lawless aggression that characterised Nazi Germany and its allies . <p> China brokered peace in Yemen through a rapprochement between Saudi Arabia and Iran . China continually makes the case too for UN recognition of a Palestinian state , and hosted talks between 14 Palestinian factions last year in an attempt to forge a united Palestinian leadership capable of taking that project forward . <p> China , like most of the global South , is not happy with an international system designed in Western capitals 80 years ago , and calls for a more equitable international order . Yet China , unlike the Western founders of that system , is acting to uphold its principles and prevent the world descending into the kind of " might is right " violence the UN was supposed to stop . <p> We need to recognise how the world looks from outside the West . The " rules-based international order " is not threatened by emerging powers , but by the US-led imperialist camp . We do n't rein in Israel , because its violence is ours . <p> This is why solidarity with Palestine means fighting for peace and disarmament in Britain , and resisting the constant militarist propaganda pretending our country is under threat .
