<p> Roderic O'Gorman , the Green Party leader , has launched a ? scathing attack on his former ? coalition partners over their handling ? of the migration crisis , the family and care referendums and climate policy . <p> In an interview with The Sunday Times , O'Gorman , the outgoing children 's minister , said fears of pushing homelessness figures over 20,000 meant the migrant accommodation crisis was not properly addressed , despite his appeals to colleagues including Darragh O'Brien , the housing minister . <p> He also claimed to have been effectively bounced into holding the failed family and care ? referendums on International Women 's Day last March despite a lack of support from Fianna Fail and Fine Gael , and accepted that running them on International Women 's Day was " a mistake " . <p> The Greens lost 11 seats in the general election last month , leaving O'Gorman as the party 's lone representative in the Dail . While he will remain in office until a new government is formed , the Dublin West TD is plotting a political comeback for the Greens from the opposition benches and insisted the party had no regrets about its time in government . " We lost seats -- it 's not the end of the world . We 've built it up before , we 've built it up from a much worse situation , " he said . <p> In a stark assessment of his time in government , O'Gorman expressed his belief that Miche ? l Martin , who is set to become taoiseach in the new year , is more serious about addressing the climate crisis than Simon Harris , who will be tanaiste in the next administration . He also claimed the two leaders had " cooled " on enacting the Occupied Territories Bill , which would ban trade with companies that operate in illegal settlements . <h> Advertisement <p> O'Gorman said the accommodation crisis for asylum seekers was born out of a lack of the " all of government approach " that had been ? evident during the Ukrainian refugee crisis . " As numbers started to increase ... the system did n't bring about an all of government approach , " he said . " People stepped back , people delineated the boundary of their responsibility , their agency , their department . <p> " Ultimately , I am accommodating 32,000 people right now and of those 6,000 are people who have a legal right to be here . I 've always said the Department of Housing Local Government and Heritage and local authorities have a responsibility to house that group of people -- and I made the point regularly . If that part of the issue had been addressed comprehensively , it would n't have solved their problems , but that 's 6,000 beds so that I would n't have had to go chasing the last hotel in a ? village . " He acknowledged moving refugees out of accommodation ran the risk of them being added to homelessness statistics , sending the ? figure rocketing to 20,000 . " That would have been politically very challenging , " he said . <p> O'Gorman beat his rival Pippa Hackett to be elected as leader of the Greens <p> NIALL CARSON/PA <p> O'Gorman , who succeeded Eamon Ryan as Green Party leader in July , said there was a " broad lack of enthusiasm " within government for the holding of the family and care referendums , both of which were defeated . " The only people enthusiastic for those referendums were myself , Leo Varadkar and Eamon Ryan . They were announced very suddenly without the preparatory work having been done , " he said . <p> " A decision was made to announce the referendum on International Women 's Day and my department were told about a week in advance , ' We 're announcing the referendums next week , let 's go . ' The announcement was based more on coinciding with a particular day than political readiness . There was n't support across FF and FG for them . " <p> On climate , O'Gorman said Martin " genuinely saw the importance of this issue " and he was watching to see how many green initiatives instigated by the outgoing coalition could be blunted by the next ? government . " When Simon Harris became taoiseach I do n't think he referenced climate at all in his initial speech , " he said . <h> Advertisement <p> He is frustrated that decisions on how to spend the climate and nature fund on retrofitting schools , improving hospitals and giving money to businesses were blocked by Fianna Fail and Fine Gael for " this really ridiculous notion that this government could n't be taking decisions towards the end of its lifetime when we were taking a rake of other decisions " . <p> He believes the resistance stemmed from both parties aiming to " stick it to the Greens " to appeal to their bases . He expressed concern that there would be a lack of stability in a coalition of Fianna Fail , Fine Gael and independents . " For years everyone would say the Greens are flaky but we demonstrated in four and a half years that we stood there , " he said . " I think we will see grandstanding coming in and out of cabinet certainly on a monthly basis , because we saw that between 2016 and 2020 . I worry about a programme for government that 's built on a laundry list of localised asks , " he said . <p> While mild-mannered on most issues , O'Gorman said he was " raging " over the controversy surrounding Eoin Hayes , the new TD suspended from the Social Democrats over his lack of candour around the disposal of shares in a company aiding the Israeli military . He believes it could have been the difference between Catherine Martin , Ossian Smyth and Patrick Costello holding their seats and Hazel Chu holding Eamon Ryan 's old seat . <p> " The last week of the campaign , all of us were reporting Gaza and the Occupied Territories Bill coming up time and time again , " he said . " If it had been known that the Soc Dems had been so cavalier in terms of the due diligence on one of their candidates , I think it would have made a really big difference ... I was absolutely raging . " <p> He is hopeful the outgoing nature minister , Malcolm Noonan , can win a seat in the Seanad in the new year and that the party can rebuild by winning up to 50 local authority seats and an MEP in the local and European elections in 2029 . <h> Advertisement <p> Meanwhile , O'Gorman admitted he had been " very glad " to have a garda protection officer with him in recent years when there have been a number of incidents while he has canvassed . He said continuing without one once he ceases to be a minister will " take a bit of getting used " . <p> He added : " It wo n't alter the way I live my life -- if people still want to have a go at me , they 're probably going to . I 'll just have to get on with the job . "
