<p> Hello . It looks like you 're using an ad blocker that may prevent our website from working properly . To receive the best experience possible , please make sure any ad blockers are switched off , or add https : **25;1343;TOOLONG to your trusted sites , and refresh the page . <h> Trump means war <p> Writing in this paper in January , I described a geopolitical chain reaction of spreading conflicts that were emerging from the collapse of the post-1945 world order . As 2024 ends , regional wars are becoming increasingly intertwined between emerging coalitions . A growing cabal of autocrats are increasingly seeing the benefit of collaborating on drones , intelligence , sanctions-busting and deploying troops in service of each other 's wars . <p> Israel and Iran have traded direct missile attacks ( as have Israel and the Houthis who have attacked international shipping in the Red Sea ) . The reaction to the murderous attacks of October 7 2023 has devastated Gaza , and expanded to a war in Lebanon . A stretched Russia and Iran were unable to prevent the fall of Bashar al-Assad in Syria , as they had in 2015 . In Europe , North Korean troops have been deployed to fight alongside Russian troops attempting to retake Russian land that Ukraine has seized , while western weapons are being used to hit targets in Russia . Russia 's " grey zone " war has continued to spread across Europe with increasingly brazen attacks . Warfare is no longer restricted to the battlefield . <p> While the incoming US president has vowed to end the Ukraine war in a day , the spreading of conflict looks set to continue in 2025 . Indeed , the return of Trump could see an explosive acceleration of the chain reaction . <p> If Trump is successful in abruptly ending the war in Ukraine , it could hasten the beginning of a new one . If Ukrainian land is ceded to Russia without concrete security guarantees , such as Nato membership , this would weaken long-term European security , erode US credibility as an ally and embolden Russia and other states with long-held territorial ambitions . This includes China 's ambitions of reunification with Taiwan . Economic challenges within China , leading to internal instability , could change president Xi 's timelines for achieving this ambition . <p> In 2025 , Israel will run out of things to destroy in Gaza . A ceasefire is possible in the near future , with Benjamin Netanyahu providing Trump with a foreign policy win in exchange for support against Iran . Trump 's social media suggests the return of the Israeli hostages will be a priority -- but he will do nothing to ease the pain of a generation of Gazans who have lost loved ones . This will leave a fertile recruiting ground for those seeking violent revenge . <p> A fragile ceasefire with Hezbollah does n't mean an easing of tensions with Iran . Removing Hezbollah 's offensive capabilities was always a part of a wider Israeli plan to deal with Iran . If Trump gives Netanyahu the green light to attack the Iranian nuclear programme , he will have to carefully manage his relationship with Putin . Russia has deepened its relationship with Iran . However , Trump and Putin will feel they can do business : US concessions over Ukraine given in exchange for Russian concessions over Iran . <p> As for China , it is walking a delicate line between fostering an anti-US military partnership between Russia , North Korea and Iran , and avoiding sanctions and the disapproval of key economic partners . Trump has announced that he will increase tariffs on China by 10% in January . Many expect an escalating trade war as Trump uses tariffs as a weapon of diplomacy . <p> Trump 's disruptive and unpredictable approach could have its uses . Yet his inconsistency , aversion to multilateral approaches and vulnerability to flattery will undermine his pursuit of " peace through strength " . Next year may be defined as much by what Trump does n't do , as by what he does . <p> The philosopher John Gray believes Trump 's return " ... marks a historic turning point , comparable in its geopolitical consequences with the Soviet collapse : the definitive end of a liberal world order . With regime change in the US , countries that relied on American protection face an unavoidable choice : arm and defend themselves , or else make peace with the rising authoritarian powers . " <p> America remains an economic superpower at the centre of AI development , which has the potential to create exponential economic growth ( albeit with accompanying social upheaval ) . Trump , however , wants to be free to focus on the primacy of US economic interests , not the primacy of western ideals . His isolationist approach will weaken America 's already waning position . <p> Many in the global south have learned the lesson of Afghanistan , Libya and Syria : do n't trust western coalitions to stand up for the ideals they claim to hold . Along with Burkina Faso , Mali , Somalia and Sudan , these countries are again becoming safe havens for extremism , which are likely to fuel the revival of terrorist networks . While the fall of Assad is being rightly celebrated , 2025 could see Syria descend into the same chaos that engulfed Libya after the fall of Colonel Gaddafi . When ideologically diverse groups , united by a single objective , achieve their goal , what they have in common becomes less than their differences . But even if the dominant rebel group in the push to Damascus , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , which emerged from al-Qaida , manages to hold together a new Syrian government , the risk of Syria becoming an Islamist terrorist safe haven remains . <p> Israel is already taking steps to minimise this risk by targeting weapons factories and other elements of Syria 's military infrastructure as well as seizing strategic land . Dormant conflicts are awakening . <p> The revival of terror networks highlights another theme of 2025 : turning your back on the world wo n't stop it coming to you . EU foreign policy chief , Kaja Kallas , claims Russia is already waging a " shadow war " on the streets of Europe . Regardless of the outcome in Ukraine , Russia will likely step up its covert activities , including deniable sabotage and arson , cyberattacks , disinformation campaigns and the targeting of energy and communications infrastructure ( including undersea pipelines and cables ) and supply chains . <p> As demonstrated by the running battles between Israeli football fans and Palestinian supporters in Amsterdam , we will see the spread of the Middle Eastern conflict on to the streets of Europe , with protests , counter-protests and antisemitic and Islamophobic attacks . <p> Trump may find his domestic immigration and narcotic policies will further the spread of Mexican cartel violence on American streets , as sources of cartel labour and revenue are disrupted . A trade war between the US and China will affect the cost of living for all of us . <p> Xi will hope Trump 's isolationist " America First " will further the emergence of a China-centred alternative to the western-dominated financial system . Through state investment and espionage , China is attempting to surpass the west 's technological and military capabilities . Through the Belt and Road Initiative and its successor , the Global Development Initiative , China has spread both debt and the tools for autocracy across the global south , in exchange for natural resources and trade deals . <p> Xi 's vision discards the idea of alliances based on universal values in favour of non-binding partnerships predicated on common interests . This is not dissimilar to Trump 's view -- the tension between the two is over who has primacy in this new world of " equals " . <p> Wars tend to concentrate at times when power is transitioning . The old system benefited the west and lifted many in the global south out of poverty , yet it has also perpetuated inequality , and western foreign policy has regularly been hypocritical . <p> What the new order will be is not yet determined . As others try to turn their back on the world or focus on the primacy of their own interests , our government must build new coalitions and institutions to ensure that we avoid losing the international norms we value . If they fail , the growing cabal of autocrats will take advantage of the disorder . <p> Hello . It looks like you 're using an ad blocker that may prevent our website from working properly . To receive the best experience possible , please make sure any ad blockers are switched off , or add https : **25;1370;TOOLONG to your trusted sites , and refresh the page .
