<h> From climate denial to gothic movies to ' treat culture ' ... what to expect in 2025 <p> Full steam ahead : from left , Nigel Farage , David Bowie , Leigh Bowery , a character from Memoir of a Snail and Liam Gallagher.Composite : Hollie Adams/Reuters , The Hartnett Archive , Sipa Press/Rex , film still , Andrew Benge/Redferns <h> Foreign affairs <p> The only thing that can be predicted with absolute certainty about Donald Trump 's second term as US president is that it will be unpredictable . Trump does not really know what he wants to do on a range of issues . He talks a good game , which is how he got re-elected . But he often seems to decide policy on the basis of what the last person he spoke to told him . Is he serious about mobilising the military to carry out mass deportations of " illegal " migrants ? Will he use the justice department to hunt down political enemies and media critics ? Will he impose sweeping tariffs on foreign imports and trigger a global trade war ? Or will he act with greater circumspection , using these threats as bargaining tools ? Who knows ? He does n't yet . <p> In Ukraine , it 's a fairly safe bet that some form of negotiations or talks about negotiations to halt , if not end , the war with Russia will begin . European governments appear to be preparing for a Trump-led effort to force a reluctant Kyiv to the table , with the price of peace being territorial concessions involving Crimea and the large chunk of eastern Ukraine currently under Moscow 's control . Any such deal may be preceded by a ceasefire and the separation of opposing forces along a line of control or demilitarised zone . Ukraine will want security guarantees against future attack . Vladimir Putin will want assurances Ukraine will not join Nato . A lot could go wrong . Amid rising tensions between Russia and the west at the year 's close , it remains possible the conflict will expand into a wider European war . <p> It 's hard to believe that things could get any worse in Gaza and the Palestinian territories than they were in 2024 -- but they could , and probably will . It can be assumed that an elusive ceasefire in Gaza will eventually be agreed , but at a high cost . It may leave hundreds of thousands of Palestinians permanently dispossessed and homeless , and Israeli forces occupying a large area of northern Gaza . Emboldened by Trump 's re-election , the hard-right Netanyahu coalition may move to annex much of the West Bank in pursuit of a " Greater Israel " . Iran and Hezbollah in Lebanon , having taken a beating , will be hard-put to stop it . So , too , will the international courts . Joe Biden 's hopes of a two-state solution and a wider Middle East settlement will lie in ashes along with his presidency . Simon Tisdall <h> Technology <p> A few themes will dominate the year . The first is the AI bubble into which the tech giants have been pumping unconscionable sums of money with , at the moment , no conceivable or proportionate return . The two big questions then are : when will it burst -- and when it does , what will be the consequences ? Investors will lose their shirts , as usual , but the impact will be more significant than the dotcom bust in 2000 , and stock markets will feel it first , as tech stocks have a disproportionate impact on the key indices . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> There will also be a consummation of the shotgun marriage between the tech industry and US politics . From now on they will be inextricably mixed -- as the tech moguls intuited when they decided to endorse Trump . Elon Musk and X will thrive , as will Trump 's Truth Social . Bluesky will become the last redoubt of liberalism . And LinkedIn will follow the corporate herd . It 's not clear how Trump will vent his spite against Meta , but he will . The company may eventually decide that it will have to split into two entities : Meta US , which conforms to Trumpian decrees , and Meta EU , which can operate within EU jurisdiction and elsewhere . <p> As far as Google is concerned , just about the only Biden initiative the US justice department will continue is the antitrust case against Google . This will end only when the company is forced to divest itself of Chrome ( and maybe some other bits too ) . Elsewhere on the regulatory front , the Federal Communications Commission ( FCC ) , under the chairmanship of Brendan Carr , will pursue fruitless attempts to amend Section 230 of the 1996 Telecommunications Act to bring social media under the governmental heel . Carr also has fantasies about trying to ensure the first amendment protects only speech that is congenial to the Maga regime . <p> Under Trump , ? cryptocurrencies will be liberated from the fear of oversight by government authorities , with societal consequences that will make current levels of grift and fraud in the industry look like a Victorian tea party . <p> And finally , Global Britain will remain an interested but impotent onlooker on all of the above . John Naughton <h> Food <p> Food in 2025 will become like everything else in 2025 : more extreme . There will be a ? superabundance of everything you like and everything you hate . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> YouTube channel TopJaw will be supplanted by an AI-generated definitive list of the " world 's best things " updated every hour and delivered in an editing style designed to be medically addictive . Simultaneously , the urge to experience individuality in an age of conformity will see an upsurge in those seeking out more organic recommendations from micro-influencers , and nano-influencers , and micro-nano-influencers ( or , as they used to be known , " other people " ) . <p> People will eat more -- ? queueing outside whichever unsuspecting neighbourhood eatery has been anointed/cursed by the latest viral TikTok trend , a la Queen 's Wood Cafe in London ( although they 'll also , inexplicably , eternally , continue queueing outside The Breakfast Club , for reasons unknown to modern science ) . They 'll also eat less -- with the cost of living continuing to encroach from one side and the march of Ozempic on the other . <p> Restaurants will somehow become more prohibitively expensive and more inaccessibly fully booked . Burgers will continue to become more smashed ( see Supernova ) and students will continue to become less smashed . We will crawl , terrifyingly , towards the era of the ? 10 pint . <p> Everything will become fermented , raw , biodynamic , locally sourced , artisanal , vegan and three new things none of us have heard of yet but which will be a core part of our identities by March and pass ? by August . Consumers will know more than ever , but be beset by the perennial worry that they 're lagging behind on whatever the latest fad is , or was , or might be . <p> And perhaps there are predictions to be made about things that wo n't change . Tradition still means something in London 's restaurants . Neil the dessert waiter will continue to tread the boards at Oslo Court , fabulously diagnosing diners with the puddings they deserve , Brasserie Z ? del will continue to offer remarkable value for money in its billion-seater dining room and Chinatown classic Wong Kei will continue to show the Yellow Bittern what it really means to be an unreasonable cash-only restaurant . Max Olesker <h> Culture <p> It is hard to ignore an exhibitionist , but it will be harder than usual in 2025 as a string of cultural figures with main ? character energy are placed centre stage . In February , Tate Modern kicks off its 25th anniversary year with a salute to the late Leigh Bowery , the influential clubber , designer , muse and performance artist of 1980s London . Bowery arrived from Melbourne , Australia , and his eccentric outfits promptly stole the limelight on the underground party scene . Those in Bowery 's orbit -- regulars at London 's famed Blitz club -- must wait until later in the year to get their own moment of cultural attention in a Design Museum show dedicated to the nightclub . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> The equally bold and alarming artist Jenny Saville will be showcased in her first major British exhibition , The Anatomy of Painting , at the National Portrait Gallery from June . Saville 's unconventional portraits focus on startling ways of seeing the body , much like Bowery 's images . A Royal Academician since 2007 , Saville made headlines in 2018 when Propped , her painting of a large nude woman on a stool , sold for ? 9.5m at Sotheby 's . It 's still the record price paid for a work by a living female artist . <p> But it is the queen of scene- ? stealing extravagance who will dominate from September , when the V&amp;A examines our lasting fascination with Marie Antoinette . The exhibition will look at the lavish style of the ill-fated French monarch and her role as an emblem of unbounded excess . <p> Publishing has its own exhibitionist moment coming up in celebrating the fictional extravagance of Jay Gatsby , F Scott Fitzgerald 's enigmatic antihero of The Great Gatsby , now 100 years old . An American literary landmark , the novel will be four months into its centenary when a Tony Award-winning hit musical based on the book opens at the London Coliseum . From May , however , publishing headlines are likely to concentrate on Laura Bates 's new study of misogyny in the AI era . The New Age of Sexism will tackle the swift feminisation of our obedient smart-speaker " servants " and examine how deepfake technology and virtual girlfriends all pose new threats to real women everywhere . <p> Showbiz , of course , has already embraced the digital future , and so the race is on to roll out the next convincing hologram or avatar stage show . The mega-success of Abba Voyage , revealed earlier this month to have contributed ? 1.4bn to the UK economy , has increased efforts to create another attraction . Pophouse , the Swedish firm behind Voyage , has pushed Presley rights owners to collaborate on an Elvis spectacular and has already bought up the back catalogues of glam rock band Kiss and 80s star Cyndi Lauper . Elsewhere , commercial negotiations are under way to set up an event based on David Bowie 's live shows , with the formal trademarking of a brand that includes rights to an avatar of the star . So watch this Space Oddity . Vanessa Thorpe <h> Sport <p> While there are no Olympic Games or World Cups to look forward to in 2025 , there is still plenty of big sport to whet the appetite -- led by England 's women football team defending their European title in the summer . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> A record 17.4 million people watched Sarina Wiegman 's side lift the Euro 2022 trophy with a 2-1 ? victory over Germany , and three years on they are among the favourites for the tournament , which takes place in Switzerland from 2 to 27 July . <p> World champions Spain look like the ones to beat , however , with France and Germany also capable of going all the way . <p> The US will also host the hugely controversial football Club World Championships on 15 June . Almost all the top European clubs are against the tournament , which has expanded from seven teams to 32 , as they believe it will lead to competition overload and risk players ' health , as they will barely have a break all summer . Fifa , however , is pressing on regardless . <p> England 's women will strongly fancy their chances of lifting the Rugby World Cup , which takes place on these shores between 22 August and 27 September . While women 's rugby has not broken through the same way as women 's football , that could start to change given the spotlight on the sport and the fact that the Red Roses have not lost since finishing runners-up to New Zealand in November 2022 and will be strong favourites . <p> Finally , the global sports agency , IMG , predicts that 2025 will start the " era of wearables " . True , people have been wearing Apple and Garmin watches for a while to record their data while exercising . However , IMG believes that augmented reality glasses such as Meta 's Orion AR , Apple Vision Pro and Snap 's fifth iteration of its SPS spectacles will start being worn by more people to watch and engage in sport . <p> " This will be the year when wearable tech finally starts to truly compete with the phone for our attention , " IMG says . <p> " And soon , with a glance of an eye , users could find themselves connected to music , their fitness stats or the internet . " Sean Ingle <h> Film <p> Concrete provides the foundations for some of 2025 's most intriguing films . January sees the release of Architecton , a dazzling documentary by visionary Russian filmmaker Victor Kossakovsky which explores humanity 's relationship with our environment through the medium of , you 've guessed it , ? concrete . The ubiquitous grey stuff also takes a starring role alongside Adrien Brody in Brady Corbet 's Oscar-tipped The Brutalist , the sweeping , epic story of a mid-20th-century architect who flees the Nazis and finds a wealthy but demanding patron in the US . Finally , there 's the wonderfully weird Canadian comedy Universal Language , set in an alternative Persian-speaking version of Winnipeg -- a city that , according to the film 's quirky vision , is almost entirely built of concrete . <p> Fans of gothic horror will have plenty to sink their teeth into ( pun entirely intended ) in 2025 , starting with the release of Robert Eggers 's remake of the vampire classic Nosferatu on the very first day of the year . The film , which stars Lily-Rose Depp , is gloriously creepy and a sumptuously sensual visual spectacle . Mexican director Guillermo Del Toro ( Pan 's Labyrinth ) has teamed with Netflix to bring his vision of Mary Shelley 's Frankenstein to the screen . The cast includes Oscar Isaac as Dr Frankenstein and Jacob Elordi in the role of the Monster . <p> Animation is n't just for kids this year , with some of the most anticipated animated features exploring adult themes . Take Memoir of a Snail ( out in February ) from Australian Oscar-winner Adam Elliot . The film deals with depression , bad marriages , compulsive eating and hoarding , all tied together with Elliot 's trademark mordant humour . Gints Zilbalodis 's Flow , a dialogue-free animation from Latvia , explores a climate emergency through the eyes of the animals that find their world destroyed . Finally , there 's Wildwood , the latest from Laika , the studio behind Coraline . Wildwood looks set to reprise the same winning formula : like Coraline , the film is described as a " stop-motion fantasy horror " . Wendy Ide <h> Money <p> It looks as if 2025 will be a pricier year for UK consumers than anticipated . That is partly because many experts and policymakers agree that Rachel Reeves 's budget package unveiled at the end of October will push up inflation . <p> Dozens of retailers , including Tesco , Sainsbury 's and Marks &amp; Spencer , have warned that higher prices in shops are a nailed-on certainty because , they say , of the decision to boost the national living wage and raise billions of pounds by increasing employer national insurance contributions from April 2025 . <p> Meanwhile , Britons face slightly higher energy bills in January , putting more pressure on household finances , despite earlier hopes that prices would fall back . The Ofgem energy price cap for the period 1 January to 31 March 2025 has been set at ? 1,738 a year for the average dual-fuel bill -- up from the current ? 1,717 a year . <p> However , some consumers look set to receive cash windfalls that could help with the cost of living or go towards a deposit on a house , financing a big trip or paying off debts . We have all heard of " the bank of Mum and Dad " , but 2025 could be the year that " the bank of Grandma and Grandad " also starts dishing out cash in a big way . <p> This relates to an announcement in the budget that unspent money left in a pension plan after your death will be included in inheritance tax calculations from April 2027 . Experts have predicted that , as a result , many well-off older people will increasingly pass on money to grandkids , children and other family members while they are still alive ( known as giving a " living inheritance " ) . <p> They are also likely to withdraw more of their pension cash and spend it in order to reduce the value of their estate . That could make 2025 a good year for companies specialising in cruises , long-haul trips and home improvements . <p> Talking of windfalls , during the coming months we will hear more about the billions of pounds of compensation that could be paid to consumers because of an unfolding scandal involving the alleged large-scale mis-selling of car finance deals . The UK 's main financial regulator is due to provide an update in May . <p> Yet another budget announcement could mean that 2025 is a bit of a topsy-turvy year when it comes to housing market activity . Nationwide building society has predicted that the chancellor 's decision not to extend temporary stamp duty thresholds put in place by the previous government will lead to a " jump " in property sales in the first three months of 2025 , especially in March , as buyers rush to complete deals , then a " period of weakness " for the next three to six months . <p> Meanwhile , as with Taylor Swift 's shows , we can expect a flurry of news reports as analysts speculate on the scale of the spending bonanza that next summer 's Oasis reunion concerts are set to unleash . <p> The reunited Gallagher brothers are playing 17 sold-out shows in UK stadiums and parks between 4 July and 28 September ( more dates could be added ) , so that 's a lot of pints , parkas and bucket hats on top of spending on food , travel , accommodation and merch . One economic consultancy has predicted that each fan will spend ? 406 , thereby boosting the economy by almost ? 500m . Rupert Jones <h> Environment <p> One small step for Trump . One giant leap backwards for humankind . Brace yourself for a flurry of grim environmental news when the climate-denying businessman returns to the White House in January . <p> As was the case last time around , Trump is likely to kick off his administration with a series of decrees that roll back many of the nature protections and renewable energy incentives of the Biden years , particularly the Inflation Reduction Act -- the most ambitious US climate plan in history . <p> Globally , the biggest impact will be felt when Trump pulls the US out of the Paris climate agreement . The new president 's appointments will include Chris Wright , a fossil fuel executive , as energy secretary and Lee Zeldin , a former congressman who voted against wildlife refuges and oil drilling moratoriums , as head of the Environmental Protection Agency . They will be charged with promoting an " America First " agenda , which means taking a wrecking ball to any regulation that holds back fossil fuel interests and extractive industries -- and unlike during Trump 's first term , they will face fewer legal and legislative hurdles because the Republican party controls both houses and Trump appointees dominate the supreme court . <p> Renewable energy may well weather the storm because wind and solar prices are now cheaper than oil , gas and coal . The biggest impacts will be on nature , people in the global south and international efforts to tackle the climate crisis . Rightwing parties throughout the world are likely to be emboldened to step up their campaigns against net zero targets . <p> Political denials will make no difference , however , to the physics of the climate crisis , which will grow worse as long as emissions continue to rise . <p> Expect another year of supercharged extreme weather and more intense drought , fire , flooding and storms . As usual , this is likely to be felt most strongly in the northern hemisphere summer . After two years of record global heat , the expected arrival of cooling La Ni ? a conditions would normally be expected to bring some respite . But nobody is betting on that , because the world 's ? climate is now so disrupted by human activity that past patterns are no longer a reliable guide to future outcomes . If next year is another record hot year , it would be an extremely worrying sign and push fragile ecosystems , such as polar ice sheets and the Amazon rainforest , closer to a calamitous tipping point . <p> The world 's attention will be on the latter in November , when the Brazilian city of Bel ? m hosts the first ever UN climate summit in the Amazon . President Luiz In ? cio Lula da Silva has called this conference -- Cop30 -- " our last chance to avoid an irreversible collapse of the climate system " . <p> This ought to be the moment when all the countries of the world submit updated national climate plans that respond to the growing severity of the situation . But the gathering will start under a cloud because of doubts about future US participation , the hostility to the process of Argentina 's president , Javier Milei , and the host nation 's internal contradictions when it comes to nature and climate . <p> On one hand , there are extremely progressive forces inside the Brazilian government , such as environment minister Marina Silva and Indigenous minister S ? nia Guajajara -- but on the other is the powerful agribusiness and mining lobby , which dominates congress . Bel ? m will struggle to cope logistically with the tens of thousands of Cop visitors . It may have even greater trouble preventing the system of global climate governance from straining beyond breaking point . Jonathan Watts <h> Politics <p> If 2024 delivered a landslide victory and a return to power for Labour , 2025 has to be the year in which signs of national recovery become visible : the party has to show its reason for governing . <p> Keir Starmer and his party can afford to be unpopular at this point in the political cycle , even to be seen as error-prone in their first months in power . Tony Blair , after all , had difficulties after May 1997 and went on to win two more elections . <p> What Starmer 's Labour can not do , however , is continue to be perceived so negatively for much longer . <p> The omens are not good . Labour put most of its eggs in the economic growth basket in its election campaign . Starmer promised to deliver the highest growth in the G7 by the end of this parliament -- an almighty hostage to fortune . <p> Rachel Reeves 's October budget then hammered employers by raising their national insurance to repair damage done to the public finances by 14 years of Tory rule . The result , the Bank of England says , is that growth is now all but nonexistent . Reeves will explain next month how she plans to kickstart economic activity . <p> Public services , the NHS , social care , education , the courts -- all desperately need more investment so that people can feel improvement . But an economy heading in the wrong direction means tax revenues will be below expectations , giving less to spend in areas of need . <p> Dangers loom everywhere . Donald Trump 's return as US president threatens a global trade war , with tariffs of 20% on UK imports into the US , and 60% ones on those from China . The UK remains outside the EU 's single market and customs union -- so it is horribly exposed . 2025 will see preparations laid for a renegotiation of the post-Brexit trade and cooperation agreement ( TCA ) with the EU in 2026 . But Brussels is not keen on big changes , and Starmer 's government does not want to risk an overtly pro-EU stance that might boost Nigel Farage and Reform UK or benefit Kemi Badenoch 's chances of establishing herself more firmly as Tory party leader . The only move that would make a big difference -- UK re-entry into the EU single market -- will not happen in Labour 's first term . In many ways the government 's economic and political requirements are at loggerheads as Reform UK climbs in the polls . <p> Abroad , the UK needs to chart a difficult course with Trump 's Washington , the EU and China , and seek progress -- showing UK influence -- on intractable conflicts in the Middle East and Ukraine . <p> A road ahead for Starmer 's government at home is not easy to see . It needs visible successes on the economy and on immigration too . <p> But with growth scraping along the bottom , evidence of improvement to living standards is likely to feel incremental at best . Labour 's best hope is to demonstrate that it has something approaching a coherent plan and that it might just be competent enough to deliver it . Toby Helm <h> Lifestyle <p> By now you might be familiar with what can only be described as " treat ? culture " . A bouquet of tulips on a Tuesday , a fancy skin mask for the weekend -- it 's giving yourself something completely unnecessary yet cute by dint of the fact that you might deserve it . <p> This is growing alongside the " glimmer " . Put simply , this is the opposite of a " trigger " -- small moments of joy which have a positive impact on your mental health ( the smell of fresh bread , the feeling of your cat lying on your feet on a chilly night ) . What 's more , the best glimmers cost nothing . <p> The cool kids are hunting down vintage Stone Island and CP Company on eBay while the rich ones want Moncler 's ultra- ? technical one in cream , but whichever way your income is skewed , there is no question that the parka has undergone a huge cultural renaissance this year . This is in part because of the return of Oasis and in part because high fashion -- particularly Burberry , Rabanne and Filippa K -- has become so adept at rebranding something practical and warm as red carpet chic . Chioma Nnadi , head of British Vogue , recently wore her Loewe parka over a Simone Rocha dress at a fancy Vogue bash . <p> The relationship between ? fashion and books will grow in 2025 . Designer Marc Jacobs posts " reading hour " selfies on Instagram , Bottega Veneta 's Matthieu Blazy has this month created a collection inspired by Richard Scarry 's seminal 1985 kids ' book Biggest Word Book Ever using intrecciato leather , and German designer Daniel Del Core gave models a copy of Mary Shelley 's Frankenstein to carry down his spring 2025 catwalk . This year , Saint Laurent opened a bookstore in Paris , while Ala ? a opened a London cafe , run by royal cakemaker Violet Cakes in partnership with cult bookseller Claire de Rouen . Now you can be well dressed and well read . Morwenna Ferrier <p> Joshua the Goat captivated readers around the world after he joined runners at the T'Railway Trek half marathon in September -- and won a medal . ( Taylor 's Pumpkin Patch/Facebook ) News stories tend to focus on people . The celebrations , the struggles or the calls for action.But we often do stories with our furry friends and other animals , too . They can often be some of our favourite stories that resonate with journalists and readers alike . This year was no exception . As this year comes to a close , h <p> President-elect Donald Trump finally spoke out on the civil war driving a wedge between growing factions in the MAGA movement -- and he 's thrown his weight behind his new pal Elon Musk . With Trump 's inauguration still more than 20 days away , his second stint in the White House had looked to be in crisis already after Republican hardliners reacted in dismay to his gaggle of tech bros ( Musk et al ) coming out in support of H-1B visas . Right-wing commentator Laura Loomer and former Trump adviser Stephe <p> President-elect Trump has spent parts of the holiday season vowing to take over the Panama Canal , calling for the U.S. to buy Greenland from Denmark and suggesting Canada could become the 51st state . It all suggests Trump is focused on somehow expanding the U.S. on his watch , though it 's hard to tell how serious it all ... <p> David and Victoria Beckham 's new Miami home is the perfect base to celebrate Christmas with their four children ; Brooklyn , Romeo , Cruz and Harper - and it 's also where a huge portrait of David Beckham 's buzz cut is hung <p> Post-Covid China has become more open to foreign tourists than it has ever been in decades , with Europe so far the main target of Beijing 's expanding unilateral visa-free entrance scheme . That is , except Sweden , Lithuania and the Czech Republic - the only European Union ( EU ) nations not on the list . Chinese analysts say the omission reflects what Beijing sees as problematic bilateral relations over issues ranging from Taiwan to access to technology . Tensions over the Ukraine war have made matter
