<p> Crash-landing in Kazakhstan , medical breakthroughs , and top films for 2025 <p> TODAY 'S BIG QUESTION <h> Was the Azerbaijan Airlines plane shot down ? <p> Claims are mounting that the plane that crashed in Kazakhstan on Christmas Day was hit by a Russian air defence weapon . <p> Azerbaijan Airlines Flight J2-8432 was scheduled to fly from the Azerbaijani capital of Baku to Grozny , capital of the Russian republic of Chechnya . But the plane veered hundreds of miles off course after being diverted over the Caspian Sea towards Kazakhstan , and crash-landed near the city of Aktau , killing at least 38 of the 67 people on board . <p> What did the commentators say ? Azerbaijani government sources " exclusively confirmed " that a Russian surface-to-air missile caused the crash , according to Euronews . They said a missile was fired during " drone air activity above Grozny " , as Russian forces attempted to down Ukrainian aircrafts , and " exploded next to the aircraft " . The pilots allegedly requested to make an emergency landing in Russia but were " ordered " to fly across the Caspian Sea -- and flight tracking data indicates their craft 's GPS navigation systems were " jammed " throughout the flight over southwest Russia . <p> Video footage of the downed fuselage " showed puncture holes consistent with the shower of shrapnel produced by a missile strike " , said The Times . The damage was " similar " to that when a Russian anti-aircraft system shot down Malaysia Airlines Flight MH17 in 2014 , killing all 298 passengers . <p> US sources claimed a Russian system struck Flight J2-8432 in what may have been " a case of mistaken identity " , said CNN . An official reportedly claimed " poorly trained Russian units " may have " fired negligently " against Ukrainian drones . The Kremlin warned against promoting " hypotheses " before investigations conclude . Russia 's aviation watchdog cited a " collision with birds " as a possible cause . Aviation officials in Grozny , and Azerbaijan 's President Ilham Aliyev , claimed the jet was redirected because of adverse weather . <p> There is still a " wide spectrum of possibilities " for the cause , said The Independent . But accidental shoot-downs are increasingly common , " often involving Russia and Ukraine " . And if Russian air defences are found to have caused this crash , " shoot-downs will be an ever-more common cause of fatalities " . <p> What next ? A commission with representatives from Azerbaijan , Kazakhstan and Russia has been established to investigate the crash -- although Russian and Azerbaijani law enforcement agencies " will not be allowed to conduct a forensic investigation " , said CNN . Authorities have recovered a second black box that they hope " will shed light on the cause " of the disaster . <p> QUOTE OF THE DAY <h> " The youngest political party in British politics has just overtaken the oldest political party in the world . " <p> Nigel Farage claims Reform UK 's membership numbers have surpassed those of the Conservatives . A digital tracker on Reform 's website put the tally at more than 131,680 -- the total claimed by the Tories when their party leadership was won by Kemi Badenoch , who dismissed Farage 's figures as " fakery " . <p> THE EXPLAINER <h> Three big medical breakthroughs of 2024 <p> Every day , the world 's scientists and researchers are working to improve human health , develop medical knowledge , and find cures and treatments to improve outcomes for patients . Here are three key medical breakthroughs from this year . <p> Bespoke drugs for Alzheimer 's patientsA Dutch study raised hopes that Alzheimer 's treatment could become much more personalised . The researchers identified five " molecular subtypes " of the disease that each have " clear differences " in their genetics and in " the clinical characteristics " that patients display , said Live Science . The team were able to sort more than 400 Alzheimer 's patients into these five subtypes , according to the different " levels of specific proteins in their cerebrospinal fluid " , a clear liquid that flows around the brain and spinal cord . It is these proteins that are associated with the biological processes that " get derailed in Alzheimer 's " . The study findings are an " important step " towards being able to give each Alzheimer 's patient " the best drug for them at the right stage of their disease " . <p> ' Gamechanger ' for asthma and lung diseaseDoctors are hailing a new treatment for asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) attacks as " the first breakthrough for 50 years " . It could be a " gamechanger " , said The Guardian . In a trial outlined in The Lancet Respiratory Medicine , respiratory medicine specialists found that a single , high-dose injection of benralizumab was more effective than the current steroid-tablets treatment at managing the type of flare-up behind 50% of asthma attacks and 30% of COPD attacks . The injection also cut " the need for further treatment by 30% " . Benralizumab is already used , at a low dose , as a repeat treatment for severe asthma , but the trial results could be " transformative for millions of people with asthma and COPD around the world " . <p> Personalised cancer vaccinesPatients in England being treated for cancer are taking part in NHS trials of a " world-first " personalised cancer vaccine . The mRNA vaccine is " custom-built " for each eligible patient and works " by training the immune system to recognise , destroy and prevent the spread of cancer cells " , said NHS England . The trials are running at 30 sites across England in partnership with research company BioNTech , and are initially focusing on patients with colorectal , skin , lung , bladder , pancreatic and kidney cancer . <h> Poll watch <p> Half of Britons find technology useful for connecting with loved ones over the Christmas period , according to a survey of more than 2,600 people by Good Housekeeping . But 47% prefer traditional offline games " like quizzes , charades and boardgames " , said the magazine , " as this makes it easier for older generations to participate " . <p> TALKING POINT <h> The ultimate Christmas No.1 singles <p> Wham ! have made music history by clinching the UK 's Christmas No.1 for a second year running . " Last Christmas " was originally held off the top spot by Band Aid 's " Do They Know It 's Christmas ? " after being released in 1984 . But four decades on , George Michael and Andrew Ridgeley 's festive tune is once again leading the Official Charts . <p> ' Gold standard'Although Band Aid 's 40th anniversary version of the fundraising single missed out on this year 's No.1 , it is a clear winner in terms of measures including streams , downloads and physical sales . The original was the UK 's best-selling official Christmas No.1 single of all time , and topped the charts in 14 countries . <p> Ranking the best Christmas tunes is a subjective task , however , with tastes evolving considerably since the first festive chart-topper ( Al Martino 's " Here In My Heart " ) in 1952 . <p> Each Christmas No.1 tells us " about the mood of the nation " , said Sky News . LadBaby had five consecutive hits from 2018 to 2022 with his " energetic , danceable , and novelty tunes designed for virality " , whereas the " 2000s and 2010s leaned heavily on emotional ballads , thanks in part to a string of ' The X Factor ' winners " . <p> For many , Mariah Carey 's " All I Want for Christmas is You " is the " gold standard " of festive songs , said Cosmopolitan , " capable of putting you in the holiday mood within the first five seconds of listening " . <p> ' True Christmas colossus'Some of the UK 's best-loved festive tunes have n't ever made the top of the charts . " Fairytale of New York " by the Pogues , featuring Kirsty MacColl , is " one of the most popular and enduring Christmas songs " , said GQ . But it was kept off the No.1 spot on its release in 1987 by the Pet Shop Boys ' cover of " Always on my Mind " . <p> Wham ! ' s " Last Christmas " is also clearly a " true Christmas colossus " . Yet despite being a " staple of nearly every respectable Christmas playlist " for decades , said London 's The Standard , until last year it held the record as the highest-selling single never to top the charts . <h> Good day ? ? <p> ... for VHS , as the owner of Britain 's longest-surviving video rental shop reports that business is booming . TVL Allstar Video in the Suffolk town of Haverhill is one of the few surviving stores of its kind amid the rise of streaming services . Colin Richards , who launched his rental business in 1984 , told The Telegraph that customers sometimes bring their children or grandchildren in for the " retro experience " . <h> Bad day ? ? <p> ... for Han Duck Soo , South Korea 's prime minister and acting president , who has been impeached less than two weeks after Yoon Suk Yeol was suspended as president for his shock attempt to impose martial law . In rowdy scenes , opposition MPs accused Han of stalling Yoon 's trial by refusing to appoint judges . <p> picture of the day <h> Dashing through the snow <p> Arabian mares gallop in the winter sunshine at the Main and State Stud Marbach , Germany 's oldest state stud , founded by the Dukes of Baden-W ? rttember . <h> Top films coming out in 2025 <p> The coming year will bring a bumper crop of films ranging from eagerly awaited sequels and retakes of old classics to all-new releases . <p> NosferatuRestoring " mystery and magic to the concept of an undead bloodsucker " , this vampire movie is a remake of F.W. Murnau 's 1922 silent adaptation of Bram Stoker 's " Dracula " , said BBC Culture . Written and directed by Robert Eggers , and starring Lily-Rose Depp ( pictured above ) and Nicholas Hoult , the new film is stripped of " vampire clich ? s " and shot like an " arthouse period drama " . <p> Bridget Jones : Mad About the BoyRen ? e Zellweger returns for the fourth series about the " loveable everywoman " , said Tatler . In line with the book of the same name , Bridget is " alone again " following -- spoiler alert -- the death of her husband , Mark Darcy . Balancing her career with raising two children , the " only area she 's neglecting " is her love life . <p> Mission : Impossible -- The Final ReckoningThe title suggests this " might be Tom Cruise 's final mission " , said The Guardian . With a budget of $400 million ( ? 320 million ) -- making it the fourth most expensive film ever -- " The Final Reckoning " follows Ethan Hunt as he takes on a dangerous AI program called The Entity . <p> Elio " Legendary " animation studio Pixar has aimed high with the narrative of " Elio " , said Empire . The title character is a " self-confessed wannabe alien abductee " who is " swept off to an interplanetary organisation 's HQ " to discover how he fits into the universe . <p> 28 Years LaterCillian Murphy reprises his lead role in 2002 hit " 28 Days Later " in this third film in the post-apocalyptic horror series . Danny Boyle directs a cast packed with " some of Hollywood 's biggest names " including Jodie Comer and Aaron Taylor-Johnson . <h> Statistic of the day <p> 12.3 million : The average number of TV viewers who tuned into the " Gavin &amp; Stacey " finale , the largest Christmas Day audience in 16 years . The overnight ratings , which do n't include people who use catch-up services to watch the show on a later date , were the highest since 14.3 million people watched " Wallace &amp; Gromit : A Matter of Loaf and Death " in 2008 . The Aardman studio favourites also returned this year with a new feature film , " Vengeance Most Fowl " , which was the second most-watched programme with 9.38 million viewers . <p> instant opinion <h> Today 's best commentary <p> The reshaping of the Middle EastThe Financial Times editorial boardThe balance of power in the Middle East has " unquestionably shifted in Israel 's favour " , says the FT 's editorial board . Iran " appears at its most vulnerable in years " , with its " axis of resistance " , including Hezbollah in Lebanon and Hamas in Gaza , looking " ever more like a paper tiger " . Israel 's " military supremacy over its foes has become starkly clear " and Benjamin Netanyahu now has " no justification " not to end the Gaza war . <p> Britain 's integration miracle is a beacon of hope amid instabilityFraser Nelson in The TelegraphAs PM , Keir Starmer has " demonstrated the power of pessimism " , writes Fraser Nelson . But " longer-term trends " show Britain is " a better place to live -- or invest in -- than anywhere else in Europe " . Over the past 15 years , " our violent crime rate has halved to an all-time low " , and while immigration has reached " unprecedented levels " , newcomers generally seem " prone to integrate " . This is an " amazing country " and we have " more reasons than ever to wish each other a Happy New Year " . <p> My family call it Old Lady Clubbing , but my giddy ' nights out ' have lit up a dismal 2024Gaby Hinsliff in The GuardianThe " cheeriest thing " about the past year has been the rise of " Old Lady Clubbing " , writes Gaby Hinsliff . Gen X has " gone wild for Abba Voyage " and " refused to give up on Glastonbury " , and we 're hitting club nights for the over-30s that start and end " blissfully " early . Gen Z " do n't party like their parents did " , but the middle-aged are " riding to the rescue " of the ailing nightlife industry like " some kind of mad sequin-clad Dunkirk " . <p> word of the day <h> Hurkle-durkle <p> If Christmas has left you exhausted , it might be time for some hurkle-durkling . The 19th-century Scottish term means lying in bed or lounging around " when one should be up and about " , according to the Dictionaries of the Scots Language . The word had " fallen out of use " , said The Scotsman , but is now being bandied about on social media as an act of self-care . It 's the " perfect word for the cold winter months " . <h> In the morning <p> Tomorrow 's Saturday Wrap looks back at the art that made headlines in 2024 , from Banksy 's animal-themed images in London to a ? 4.9 million banana .
