<p> The International Court of Justice votes 15-2 to demand Israel " take all measures within its power " to prevent genocide in Gaza . It does not call for a ceasefire . Chicago City council does call for a ceasefire , following similar resolutions throughout the world . Israel announces it has exposed Hamas ' desire and capability to bomb targets in Europe , Africa and the Middle East . Israelis are attacked at a restaurant in Berlin , which feels retro . ( It wo n't stay that way ) . Pope Francis calls for a ban on surrogacy . I agree with him , and this is rare . <p> ? <p> FEBRUARY <p> George Galloway wins the Rochdale by-election after Azhar Ali , the Labour candidate , is recorded stating Israel allowed the October 7 massacre to go ahead in order to conquer Gaza . The Labour Party refuses to campaign for Ali . A young Galloway supporter says he wants to kill all the Jews in the world . When told there are anti-Zionist Jews , he says : not them . They can stay . Lord Rothschild , banker and philanthropist , dies . The new National Library of Israel , the last building he funded , is his monument . The statue of Amy Winehouse in Camden is decorated with a pro-Palestine sticker . <p> ? <p> MARCH <p> Jonathan Glazer , a Jewish filmmaker , accepts the best international film at the Academy Awards for The Zone of Interest , a film about Nazis ' murderous intent toward Jews . Glazer says he stands with men " who refute their Jewishness and the Holocaust being hijacked by an occupation which has led to conflict for so many innocent people " . A Jewish man is stabbed in Zurich . Vladimir Putin is re-elected president of Russia with 88.48 per cent of the vote on a turnout of 77.49 per cent . It is his fifth term . Pinchas Goldschmidt , former Chief Rabbi of Moscow , has urged Jews to flee Russia , and is now designated " a foreign agent " by the Russian state . There is a protest outside the opening of the Holocaust Museum in Amsterdam . It 's not the Holocaust they have issues with , it 's the museum . <p> ? <p> APRIL <p> Israel attacks the Iranian embassy in Damascus , Syria . Iran attacks Israel with 300 missiles and drones . Jordan , the UAE and Saudi Arabia help to defend Israel , which upsets Tankies living in Somerset and Hackney , who think all Arabs should agree with them about what 's best for the Middle East . As in : " What does the King of Jordan know ? I have n't seen him at a CLP meeting ! " The Gaza Solidarity Encampment begins at Columbia University in New York City , allowing multiple young people to neglect their coursework but not feel lazy . It inspires similar camps throughout the world but holds a Passover Seder . " There has been this discourse that Columbia is this hotbed of antisemitism , but it 's just a bunch of nerds sitting on the ground praying , chanting and doing homework , " said a Jewish attendee . " It 's crazy how bad faith that discourse has become . " So true . <p> ? <p> MAY <p> The Swiss performer Nemo wins the Eurovision Song Contest in Malm ? , Sweden , with a song called The Code . Eden Golan , the Israeli contestant , sings Hurricane , a song about the October 7 massacres . She requires security guards . The International Criminal Court chief prosecutor seeks arrest warrants for Benjamin Netanyahu and Yahya Sinwar , the mastermind of the October 7 massacre , for alleged war crimes . Norway , Spain and Ireland recognise the State of Palestine . Oxford students , academics and alumni publish a letter describing the university as a " hostile environment " for Israelis , citing " harassment incidents , directed at Jewish and Israeli university members " . Rishi Sunak calls a general election in a downpour outside Downing Street : he did not tell his full cabinet in advance . His excellent suit gets soaking wet . It 's a prelude . <p> ? <p> JUNE <p> Julian Assange is freed from prison . Ian Hislop , editor of Private Eye , has said that Assange told him in a phone call that the current affairs publication was " part of a conspiracy led by the Guardian which included journalist David Leigh , editor Alan Rusbridger and John Kampfner from Index on Censorship , all of whom ' are Jewish ' " . This is news to them , though Rusbridger does have a Jewish brother-in-law . Hislop continued : " When I doubted whether his Jewish conspiracy would stand up against the facts , Assange suddenly conceded the point . ' Forget the Jewish thing ' . " Assange , who denied Hislop 's allegations about their conversation , returns to his native Australia . <p> ? JULY <p> After a lacklustre campaign in which he left the D-Day commemorations early , and leading Tories placed bets on the election date , Rishi Sunak leads the Conservatives to their worst defeat since 1906 , leaving them with 121 seats . Keir Starmer , a former human rights lawyer , becomes prime minister . He looks surprised and then happy , at which voters are surprised . <p> Reform UK take five seats , including Clacton-on-Sea for Nigel Farage , who enters Parliament at his eighth attempt . His victory smile is that of a hungry child who has been given some chips and a lolly . Six per cent of Jews vote Reform UK , compared to the national average of 15 per cent . Who says Jews are racist ? <p> Jeremy Corbyn , bringer of allotment-grown vegetables to anti-Zionist Seders , wins Islington North as an independent : perhaps his 11th term in Parliament will be the one where he does something beyond empowering the right in terrible clothes ? Even so , it 's a great day for allotment-grown vegetables , for people who want a " genocide-free Islington " and for people who believe that Corbyn is a magic Socialist who can be resurrected like Jesus . George Galloway loses his Rochdale seat to Labour . He does not stay for the count . <p> Three young girls are murdered at a Taylor Swift-themed dance class in Southport , Merseyside . It is later revealed the alleged murderer possessed al Qaeda training materials . Donald Trump is shot at a rally in Pennsylvania . Though covered in blood , he raises his fist to the crowd . Joe Biden withdraws his candidacy for the presidential election and endorses his deputy , Kamala Harris . At the Opening Ceremony of the Paris Olympics , it rains . Sir Keir Starmer is the only man in his block not wearing a transparent cagoule . Typically , he brought his own . <p> ? <p> AUGUST <p> There are anti-immigrant riots across the UK . They are swiftly crushed . The Community Security Trust reports that antisemitic incidents more than doubled in the first half of 2024 , compared to the year before , and a record number of incidents involved schoolchildren . A Jewish man is stabbed in New York City . US presidential hopeful Robert F Kennedy Jnr says he once put a dead bear in Central Park . It 's reminiscent of Woody Allen 's famous moose joke , though by accident . <p> ? <p> SEPTEMBER <p> Alternative for Germany AfD , a far-right , anti-immigrant party , comes first in the Thuringia state parliament election with 32.8 per cent of the vote . Appropriately , their victory is on September 1 . Israel blows up the pagers and walkie-talkies of Hezbollah fighters , and kills Hassan Nasrallah , the secretary general of Hezbollah , apparently as he watches Benjamin Netanyahu give a speech on TV . If diaspora Jews laugh at this , they do so in private . <p> A member of the Gaza Solidarity Encampment at Columbia University asks for " basic humanitarian aid " for the camp . Which is in Manhattan . <p> ? <p> OCTOBER <p> Israel kills Yahya Sinwar , the mastermind of the October 7 massacre , in Rafah . Idiots mourn . <p> Writers including Sally Rooney , Rachel Kusher and Arundhati Roy sign a letter refusing to work with institutions that " are complicit or have remained silent observers of the overwhelming oppression of Palestinians " , that have " discriminatory policies and practices " or engage in " whitewashing and justifying Israel 's occupation , apartheid or genocide " . In 2021 Rooney refused to sell translation rights to her third novel to an Israeli publisher . <p> ? <p> NOVEMBER <p> After a lacklustre Democrat campaign that repeated many of Hillary Clinton 's mistakes in 2016 -- insulting voters , " vibes " -- Donald Trump is elected to the presidency for the second time . Even so , the majority of Jews vote Democrat . Where 's our Jewish power gone ? Trump offers support to Israel and promises to " deport pro-Hamas radicals and make our college campuses safe and patriotic again " . <p> Kemi " Bad Enoch " Badenoch , who describes Israel as , " a thriving start-up nation that enriches and improves lives across the world , " becomes leader of the Conservative Party , beating Robert " Generic " Jenrick , who wore a " Hamas are terrorists " hoodie , in the members ' ballot . <p> Maccabi Tel Aviv supporters are attacked in Amsterdam after a game : they are beaten , hit with cars and chased into canals . The Oxford Union passes a motion naming Israel a genocidal apartheid state : the president speaks for the motion . Frank Auerbach , the singular genius of British post-war art , dies . His parents sent him to England from Germany in 1939 , when he was eight : they were murdered in Auschwitz in 1942 . The BBC airs the final part of Hilary Mantel 's Wolf Hall . Thomas Cromwell , a lawyer , is not Jewish . I wish he were . I also wish he were my lawyer. ? <p> DECEMBER <p> The murderous regime of Bashar-Al Assad , a former ophthalmologist , falls in Syria . The Assads fled to Russia . ( The writer Marina Hyde counsels Assad : do n't take a flat on too high a floor ) . <p> Israel destroys Syrian offensive capabilities . <p> Border-dwelling Druze villages ask to live under Israeli protection . The BBC forgets to mention this . Nigel Farage tells an audience that Reform UK will win the next general election . They do n't applaud . <p> The Adass Israel synagogue in Melbourne , Australia , is firebombed . The Congregation Beth Tikvah synagogue in Montreal , Canada , is also firebombed . CTV Montreal , " Montreal 's top English language newsroom " headline the story : " Flames target place of worship " . People question whether flames have moral agency . <p> Amnesty International accuses Israel of committing genocide . It has to change the definition of genocide to do this . Ayatollah Khamenei , Iran 's Supreme leader , hit 1.3 million followers on X. <p> Patrick Marber 's revival of Mel Brooks ' The Producers opens at the Menier Chocolate Factory in London to rave reviews , though it omits the final line from the 1967 film , which speaks to the essential character of the Jewish people : " We open Saturday night ! "
