<h> We can not give in to defeatism as Trump 's toxic influence poisons the global well <h> Do n't give in to defeatism as Trump 's toxicity poisons the global well <p> SO bigly has the world changed in the last eight years -- so battered into submission have we been by the pandemic , conflicts , climate change and the rise of the right -- it is difficult to recall the shock of Donald Trump 's first election victory , or to summon up the spirit of resistance that led millions to protest in the days after his 2017 inauguration . <p> Back then , everything the new president did -- every rambling speech , every late-night tweet , every on-the-hoof policy announcement -- was met with an outpouring of anger and defiance that seems touchingly naive from today 's more jaded standpoint . <p> This time , there is even more reason to worry . Now , Trump is a convicted felon , bankrolled by Elon Musk , who bought a social media platform to peddle misinformation on his behalf . <p> He has greater control over Washington : the Republicans ' Senate majority is slightly bigger , the Supreme Court is stacked in his favour , and he has offloaded any party stalwarts unwilling to sign up to his Make America Great Again ( MAGA ) agenda . <p> Meanwhile , he is cosying up to the two world leaders -- Vladimir Putin and Benjamin Netanyahu -- responsible for the worst ( and potentially globally consequential ) acts of aggression so far this century . <p> Yet , we have become so inured to the corruption and extremism at the heart of his project that a frenzy of antagonistic season-of-badwill posts -- in which he criticised Justin Trudeau and lashed out at " radical left lunatics " -- caused barely a ripple of consternation . <p> Nowadays , Trump can threaten to annex Canada , buy Greenland and retake the Panama Canal , and the response is little more than a raised eyebrow and an " och , there he goes again " shrug of the shoulders . <p> It 's not that people are n't scared , it 's that the focus is less on fighting the machine than on self-preservation , and the shoring up of positions . Some are acting cynically . <p> Naughty list BIG corporations -- including a few which pledged to cut Trump off after the 2021 Capitol riot -- have been currying favour by donating millions to his inaugural fund ( he 's said to be keeping a naughty list of those who do n't ) . <p> Others , like the universities urging international students to return early from their winter breaks in case of a fresh Muslim travel ban , are acting out of desperation and in the hopes of protecting their most vulnerable from the predicted consequences of Trump 's second term . <p> There 's a weariness and a sort of defeatism in the air . The 2017 Muslim travel ban sparked ad hoc protests at airports , while Trump 's rhetoric on reproductive issues led to large-scale women 's marches in cities across the world . <p> I joined the Edinburgh women 's march and the one a year or so later in protest against his state visit to the UK . But they were exercises in futility . <p> Trump was still feted by the Queen and Theresa May . Roe v Wade was still overturned . If 77 million Americans do n't care that a jury of their peers found their president liable for sexual abuse ( if they do n't care that he is appointing anti-vaxxers and sexual abusers to his administration ) , then what difference is waving a placard on the other side of the Atlantic going to make ? <p> The events of the last few years , in the US and elsewhere , have brought a kind of learned helplessness . When Russia invaded Ukraine , there was an initial pulling together -- sending donations , and then taking in refugees -- and the UK Government has continued to provide money and weaponry ( as it absolutely should ) . <p> But two years on , people are still dying , and Putin can launch a Christmas Day attack on the country 's energy infrastructure with impunity . <p> Then , there is the horror of watching the genocide in Gaza unfold in real time , while world leaders -- in hock to Netanyahu -- utter their weasel words . Petitions are ignored , protesters often written off as anti-Semites . <p> There appears to be nothing we can do to stop our government arming Israel or to convince it to introduce the kind of sweeping trade sanctions which helped to end apartheid in South Africa . Trump 's presidency has done nothing to assuage public concerns . <p> If he can -- as he has promised -- bring an end to the Ukrainian conflict , it is likely to be at the expense of Ukraine ( and with what long-term consequences for Europe , one wonders ? ) . <p> As for Gaza , in his first term , Trump moved the US Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem , and he has stuffed his new administration full of pro-Israeli hawks , so there 's scarcely cause for optimism there either . <p> Disconnect OUR impotence in the face of political intransigence -- combined with the all-pervasive nature of social media -- is leading otherwise engaged people to disconnect . <p> A recent Associated Press/NORC poll suggested 65% of American adults wanted to limit their consumption of news about politics and the government . I feel it too : that growing reluctance to watch the TV footage or scroll through my feeds because what 's the point in being informed if you ca n't change a single damn thing ? <p> So , we are silenced by our powerlessness , but also by a fear of exacerbating the situation . One of the neatest tricks the right has pulled off is to make those of us who are angry about Donald Trump responsible for his rise . It was , so the theory goes , the hysteria of " woke elites " that alienated the working classes . It 's neat because it 's partly true . <p> We should have grasped that decades of marginalisation would make certain sections of society more susceptible to the siren song of demagogues . We should have understood more and condemned less . <p> But it 's also convenient because " woke elites " are easily guilt-tripped , and because their decision to shut up and opt out allows Trump 's lies and toxicity to go unchallenged . <p> After his election in November , Rebecca Solnit -- a woman very often dismissed as both " woke " and " elite " -- reminded us of the need to keep going , or at least of the need not to quit . Quoting the LGBT historian Gerard Koskovich , she described succumbing to despair as a kind of complicity . <p> This is going to be particularly relevant to those of us in the UK in the coming year as we face up to a new threat from Nigel Farage 's Reform Party . Last week , the party announced it now has over 132,000 members -- more than the Conservatives -- and declared itself the new Opposition . <p> Some polls have suggested the party could win 1,000 councillors between now and the next General Election , taking votes from both the Tories and Labour . <p> Meanwhile , in Scotland too , its popularity is increasing . Reform took 7% of the vote north of the Border in the General Election in July , overtaking the Conservatives in 25 seats , despite very little campaigning or party infrastructure . And the Scottish Parliament 's system of proportional representation is likely to benefit the party in the 2026 Holyrood election . <p> This is , in other words , no time to give up ; to accept that we are doomed ; to surrender to the apparent inexorability of dark forces . <p> Daunting prospects <p> THERE is work to be done : at home and abroad . Heading into January , with so much at stake , is daunting . The prospect of another four years of Trump is bleak . <p> But wallowing in the disappointment of Kamala Harris 's defeat gets us nowhere ( and in any case let 's not kid ourselves the Democrats would have offered any kind of global panacea ) . <p> If the scale of the world 's problems has a paralysing effect , then we could focus on those small things that are in our gift : cleaving to our principles ; supporting those around us ; contributing to our communities ; calling out misinformation , but without laying blame . <p> Such actions may not alter the course of history , but there 's a dignity in remaining true to yourself in the face of attempts to erase you . We should show , not tell . <p> Live the way we 'd like the world to be . And keep on hoping for Seamus Heaney 's " great sea-change on the far side of revenge " . <h> Why are you making commenting on The Herald only available to subscribers ? <p> It should have been a safe space for informed debate , somewhere for readers to discuss issues around the biggest stories of the day , but all too often the below the line comments on most websites have become bogged down by off-topic discussions and abuse . <p> heraldscotland.com is tackling this problem by allowing only subscribers to comment . <p> We are doing this to improve the experience for our loyal readers and we believe it will reduce the ability of trolls and troublemakers , who occasionally find their way onto our site , to abuse our journalists and readers . We also hope it will help the comments section fulfil its promise as a part of Scotland 's conversation with itself . <p> We are lucky at The Herald . We are read by an informed , educated readership who can add their knowledge and insights to our stories . <p> That is invaluable . <p> We are making the subscriber-only change to support our valued readers , who tell us they do n't want the site cluttered up with irrelevant comments , untruths and abuse . <p> In the past , the journalist 's job was to collect and distribute information to the audience . Technology means that readers can shape a discussion . We look forward to hearing from you on heraldscotland.com <h> Comments &amp; Moderation <p> Readers ' comments : You are personally liable for the content of any comments you upload to this website , so please act responsibly . We do not pre-moderate or monitor readers ' comments appearing on our websites , but we do post-moderate in response to complaints we receive or otherwise when a potential problem comes to our attention . You can make a complaint by using the ' report this post ' link . We may then apply our discretion under the user terms to amend or delete comments . <p> Post moderation is undertaken full-time 9am-6pm on weekdays , and on a part-time basis outwith those hours . <h> follow us <p> This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation 's Editors ' Code of Practice . If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then please contact the editor here . If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact IPSO here
