<h> Why a truly turbulent year awaits the world in 2025 <h> Why a truly turbulent year awaits the world in 2025 <p> Former U.S. President Donald Trump enters Erie Insurance Arena for a political rally while campaigning for the GOP nomination . Photo by Jeff Swensen/Getty Images ) . <p> The past 12 months have seen the globe rocked by conflicts and major shifts in power , but as the new year beckons , Foreign Editor David Pratt runs the rule over what might lie head <p> As the old saying goes , prediction is hard , especially if it 's about the future . Most foreign affairs writers , analysts and correspondents will identify with that age old maxim and agree that crystal ball gazing over major world stories is something of a mugs game . <p> This past year 2024 has been a point in case , for what a surprising , seismic , and turbulent year it has been on the world stage . <p> To name but just a few of the stories that have shaped the past 12 months , firstly there was Donald Trump 's incredible sweeping victory in the US presidential election . Incumbent Joe Biden was not the only one to lose out either , as more than 40 per cent of the planet 's population went to the polls in 2024 , many punishing politicians in power in the mother of all election years . <p> Then there was the shift in momentum to Russia in the third year of the war in Ukraine . And last but far from least , profound upheaval even by Middle East standards that saw the region undergo a geopolitical relandscaping culminating with the overthrow of Bashar al-Assad 's decades long authoritarian rule in Syria . <p> Yes , making predictions for the year ahead is fraught with pitfalls , but that never stops us from trying to read the runes , such is the almost universal obsession with gaining a ' window ' on the world in which we live and its impact on all our lives no matter how far-flung and removed events might appear to be . <p> It 's in that spirit then that I thought it at least a useful exercise in this last Sunday edition of 2024 , to flag up a few global news themes worth keeping an eye on in 2025 . <p> What follows is far from being a ' definitive ' or ' correct ' list of those stories or themes likely to shape the coming year , and I should stress is a purely personal take . But without doubt , each of these themes will resonate over next twelve months and beyond - so here we go . <p> Trump 's policy coherence will be as elusive as ever <p> Few would disagree that Donald Trump 's electoral victory was the political pinnacle of last year . As he takes office again on January 20 , so the impact of his presidency will be felt in a number of ways in terms of foreign policy . His appointments to date of key staff provide some of the clues as to what we can expect - or do they ? <p> Many international affairs experts , among them Karin von Hippel , director of the Royal United Services Institute ( RUSI ) in London , believe that Trump 's pick n mix approach is more about surrounding himself with loyalists rather than real strategic forward thinking . <p> " It 's almost like what he 's doing with his appointments is like a Jackson Pollock painting . He 's just throwing everything at the wall , throwing a lot of crazy characters at the wall in hopes that some of those guys will get through , " observed von Hippel recently in an assessment some art historians might feel an unfair comparison with the creative thinking behind the great American abstract expressionist painter 's method of working . <p> But levity aside , the 47th US president will be less constrained than the 45th albeit they are the same person . This ' less ' constrained Trump cuts both ways , acting I believe both as a force for good and one that is bad . Knowing this , countries around the world are already bracing for his impact . <p> Where I believe Trump can act as force for good is in his long established capacity to shake things up . On the right day this can result in a positive refocusing of minds that have become complacent or entrenched . <p> Top of Trump 's list will be Washington 's fraught , geopolitical relations with Russia and China . Watch out for him attempting a reset of relations with both , especially with his counterpart Vladimir Putin , which in turn could bring Moscow and Kyiv to the negotiating table to discuss terms of a peace deal . <p> Europe here must ensure it has both a seat and voice at the table to ensure that its clout is not seriously undermined and Ukraine hung out to dry diplomatically . <p> In Trump 's eyes , brokering this could mean a land-for-peace agreement with security guarantees for Ukraine in Europe stopping short of NATO membership . <p> As for China , the US president-elect knows that this year will be crucial for China 's sluggish economy . To that end , Trump might be tempted to turn the screw through tariffs but again look out for a deal here too . <p> Much will depend on which of Trump 's character traits comes to the fore and the degree of influence some national security hardliners like Mike Waltz , Marco Rubio and others within his administration bring to bear . We might see the Trump who likes to do big deals with strong leaders or the competitive Trump who still feels cheated by China on Covid and the bilateral trade deal during his last term in the White House . <p> I 'll stick my neck out here and say that Beijing may be inclined to negotiate a new agreement with Trump similar to the one made just before Covid , to stabilise its relationship with the US and buy time for internal reforms . Trump the force for good might seem like a strange call , but I stress again the unpredictable nature of his policy implementation means it could cut both ways . <p> As someone who has spent a substantial part of my four decade long foreign affairs reporting career covering the Middle East , rarely in that time could I have imagined a chain of events like those that unfolded last year in the wake of the Hamas attack on Israel in October 2023 . That almost all these bitter and bloody events have their festering roots going back much longer goes without saying , but what now lies ahead for the region in 2025 and beyond ? <p> To begin with Gaza , the outlook for the foreseeable future for Palestinians is I believe as bleak as ever . <p> Roughly 15 months into Israel 's war on Gaza , which both Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch have concluded constitutes a genocide , 2025 I believe will see Israel establish a full presence in the north of the coastal enclave . Elsewhere in Gaza the suffering will continue as Israeli forces double down on what remains of Hamas . In the occupied West Bank meanwhile keep an eye on what will be accelerated Israeli settlement growth , as per far right ultranationalist Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich 's ' Decisive Plan , ' which was published in 2017 . As one Israeli newspaper commentator recently observed , with settlers lining up to get into Gaza and Lebanon , " it 's getting harder to push back against talk of Israeli empire-building . " <p> This is almost certain to trigger new rounds of violence , though Israel in 2025 will continue to use what it sees as a ' golden ' opportunity , to neutralise Tehran 's so called ' axis of resistance , ' with the Houthis in Yemen now firmly in its crosshairs . Looking to 2025 , one of the potential flashpoints in the region will be a resumption of hostilities between Tehran and Tel Aviv . <p> Elsewhere in the region watch out for the Syrian ' honeymoon ' period after Assad 's ouster unravelling and fractures opening up . The intervention of outside actors in post-Assad Syria will have a major impact on what happens next . In 2025 many external players will seek to influence Syria 's vulnerable transition in ways that serve their own interests . Turkey especially is worth monitoring as it seeks to use its rebel proxies in Syria to eliminate any threat from Kurdish aspirations for independence . As the New Arab online magazine rightly recently pointed out , as Tehran 's grip on the region loosens , the stage is set for Turkish president Recep Tayyip Erdogan to potentially fill the vacuum and redefine the regional order . <p> Ukrainian firefighters work to extinguish a fire at the site of a drone attack on industrial facilities in Kharkiv ( Photo by SERGEY BOBOK / AFP ) <p> The year of make or break for Ukraine <p> Whatever happens in 2025 it will prove a crucial year for Russia 's war in Ukraine . <p> Trump has promised to end the conflict there , but the fact remains that the Ukrainian and Russian visions of a settlement differ wildly , and Russian President Vladimir Putin has shown little interest in serious negotiations . <p> But watch out nevertheless for Trump attempting to broker an agreement . Last month the Wall Street Journal ( WSJ ) citing policy advisers close to Trump , reported that they were considering offering a deal whereby the current fighting lines would be frozen - cementing Russia 's seizure of roughly 20% of Ukraine -and forcing Ukraine to temporarily suspend its quest to join the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation ( NATO ) . <p> According to the WSJ , one idea proposed by Trump 's transition team and up until then not previously reported , would involve Kyiv promising not to join NATO for at least 20 years . The US meantime would continue to provide weapons supplies to deter a future Russian attack and the frontline would essentially lock in place and both sides agree to an 800-mile demilitarised zone . <p> Highlighting the tricky question of who would police such a zone , the WSJ cited a Trump adviser insisting that whoever did it , they would certainly not be American military or part of a US-funded international body , such as the United Nations <p> " We can do training and other support but the barrel of the gun is going to be European , " a member of Trump 's team said . " We are not sending American men and women to uphold peace in Ukraine . And we are not paying for it . Get the Poles , Germans , British and French to do it , " the newspaper quoted the adviser as saying bluntly . <p> Whether such a deal and frozen conflict comes so fruition in 2025 remains to be seen , but there is a real sense that one way or another the coming year could be a make or break one for Ukraine . <p> A boy waves a flag during a mourning demonstration in the Mezzah district on December 27 , 2024 in Damascus , Syria <p> UK will have to decide is it Europe or America ? <p> In 2025 Trump 's sweeping victory will affect everything from immigration and defence to economics , trade and alliances . His " America First " policy will have friends and foes alike questioning the solidity of America 's alliances . This could lead to geopolitical realignments and heightened tensions . <p> Right now , Europe itself is politically vulnerable with Germany , under Olaf Scholz tearing itself apart and France 's minority government surviving at the behest of the far-right leader Marine Le Pen . <p> As this weakened Europe struggles to forge a common front , Trump will seek to exploit this and if America is to continue to back Europe , the US president will want something tangible in return , whether on trade , military contracts or direct payments . <p> Few issues will test this common European front more than that of Trump 's threat of imposing trade tariffs , which has already stimulated an internal debate in Europe on how to respond . <p> In the coming year watch out for Sir Keir Starmer 's government struggling to balance relations with the US and Europe . Speaking earlier this month Starmer " utterly rejected " the idea that the UK must choose between the US and Europe arguing that it is in the national interest to work with both . <p> If Trump follows through on his announced plans to impose tariffs on the US 's trade partners , then he could pressure the UK to effectively pick sides between America and the European Union ( EU ) . <p> Starmer has said that the UK would " never turn away " from its relationship with the US , despite the difficulties the new administration could pose , as it had been the " cornerstone " of security and prosperity for over a century . <p> Polling published this month by the European Council on Foreign Relations , showed that right across Europe voters prefer more Europe to more Trump . The question now is whether if put to the test Starmer 's government thinks the same if forced to decide on going with Europe or Trump 's America . <p> Other stories to watch out for <p> While much of the focus in terms of foreign stories in 2025 will stem from Trump , and the conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East , other major events should also be on our radar . Among other more wild card predictions here are a few to add to the watchlist . <p> First up , the return of geopolitical competition will further intensify in the shape of what has been called the ' axis of autocracies , ' ' the axis of upheaval ' and the ' quartet of chaos ' or to put this another way the growing cooperation between China , Russia , Iran , and North Korea . Once again Trump 's administration could have a major impact on how this develops - or not . <p> Watch out too for the growing constitutional crisis brewing in Tbilisi , Georgia , which as I write will reach boiling point as the newly elected , far-right pro-Russian President Mikheil Kavelashvili is inaugurated today Dec. 29 . It could well be a volatile year in Georgia . <p> Farther afield , twenty months into a civil war , the world 's biggest humanitarian crisis in Sudan is almost certain to get worse as the country continues to slide into a widening famine crisis with food stocks likely to be exhausted ahead of the usual lean season . This underreported story is one that should concern us all and will sadly make headlines for all the wrong reasons in 2025 . <p> In Asia meanwhile , 2025 could well signal the end of the junta in Myanmar much as 2024 saw the overthrow of Assad 's ' regime in Syria . Declining morale within the army , failure to recruit new soldiers and loss of support from major backers like Russia , has seen opposition gains that could well see the bottom fall out of the junta . <p> In short , if 2024 saw turbulent times then so too does the year ahead look set to be a rocky one . Whatever occurs , here 's hoping for more peace on the horizon . <h> Why are you making commenting on The Herald only available to subscribers ? <p> It should have been a safe space for informed debate , somewhere for readers to discuss issues around the biggest stories of the day , but all too often the below the line comments on most websites have become bogged down by off-topic discussions and abuse . <p> heraldscotland.com is tackling this problem by allowing only subscribers to comment . <p> We are doing this to improve the experience for our loyal readers and we believe it will reduce the ability of trolls and troublemakers , who occasionally find their way onto our site , to abuse our journalists and readers . We also hope it will help the comments section fulfil its promise as a part of Scotland 's conversation with itself . <p> We are lucky at The Herald . We are read by an informed , educated readership who can add their knowledge and insights to our stories . <p> That is invaluable . <p> We are making the subscriber-only change to support our valued readers , who tell us they do n't want the site cluttered up with irrelevant comments , untruths and abuse . <p> In the past , the journalist 's job was to collect and distribute information to the audience . Technology means that readers can shape a discussion . We look forward to hearing from you on heraldscotland.com <h> Comments &amp; Moderation <p> Readers ' comments : You are personally liable for the content of any comments you upload to this website , so please act responsibly . We do not pre-moderate or monitor readers ' comments appearing on our websites , but we do post-moderate in response to complaints we receive or otherwise when a potential problem comes to our attention . You can make a complaint by using the ' report this post ' link . We may then apply our discretion under the user terms to amend or delete comments . <p> Post moderation is undertaken full-time 9am-6pm on weekdays , and on a part-time basis outwith those hours . <h> follow us <p> This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation 's Editors ' Code of Practice . If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then please contact the editor here . If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact IPSO here
