<p> Europe is in for a turbulent time . The reelection of Donald Trump as U.S. president is yet another shock , after the coronavirus pandemic and the war in Ukraine . His policies toward NATO and tariffs will cause more instability in a continent where the political and policy establishment is already staggering . <p> As the new power balance reasserts itself , expect new poles of influence to emerge . We asked a group of top thinkers -- historians and political scientists with specialties ranging from the medieval period to the present day -- to share their predictions for what those might be . <h> Desmond Dinan : The return of Warsaw <p> Desmond Dinan is a professor of public policy at George Mason University 's Schar School of Policy and Government . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Poland 's emergence as an EU power center is partly due to the demise of the traditional Franco-German pillar and the increasing importance of frontline countries following Russia 's full-scale invasion of Ukraine . It also owes much to its change of government in 2023 and to Donald Tusk 's return as prime minister . <p> In a display of Poland 's newfound diplomatic initiative and authority , for example , last month -- just a day after the EU 's Foreign Affairs Council meeting -- Foreign Minister Radoslaw Sikorski hosted his peers from the bloc 's five biggest members and the United Kingdom , with the purpose of building support for Ukraine among Europe 's most militarily capable countries . A week later , Tusk joined a summit of the Nordic-Baltic Eight leaders , resulting in a joint statement on security cooperation and a new strategic partnership with Sweden . <p> Clearly , Poland 's star , ascendant in the east , is brightening the EU 's prospects at an otherwise ominous time . Sikorski in particular is a man for all seasons . And when it comes to EU-U.S. relations , he certainly hopes to be the man for the coming winter season . A true transatlanticist , he will do anything to prevent the thermometer from dipping below freezing on relations with Washington -- whether in Celsius or Fahrenheit . <p> Having worked in Washington 20 years ago , Sikorski can draw on his many contacts to try to temper the worst instincts of the Trump 2.0. administration . Sikorski was a Euroskeptic back then , though of a kinder , gentler form than the virulent strain that 's prevalent today . He scoffed at the Lisbon Strategy and derided the treaty establishing a constitution for Europe during the ratification process . Ridiculing the latter 's bulkiness , he was known to pull a copy of the lean U.S. Constitution out of his jacket pocket , like a rabbit out of a hat . American audiences loved it . <p> But as his more-recent trajectory from mild Euroskeptic to a pillar of the EU establishment suggests , Sikorski is a shapeshifter -- something that could also help endear him to Trump and company , who are political opportunists par excellence . Though Sikorski vied unsuccessfully to become his party 's contender for Poland 's next presidential election , it 's undeniable that he looks the part . And that alone is enough to make a good impression on the credulous American president-to-be . <p> Foreign Minister Radoslaw Sikorski hosted his peers from the bloc 's five biggest members and the United Kingdom , with the purpose of building support for Ukraine among Europe 's most militarily capable countries . Omar Marques/Getty Images <p> Sikorski could play his old trick , just in reverse . He could distill the Treaty on the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union down to a slim booklet . He 'd have to call it something else , of course -- the " EU Constitution " perhaps ? Then , he could whip this out at key moments in Washington , dazzling the new administration with his cleverness and the EU 's agility , helping end the winter chill in transatlantic relations . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <h> Eleanor Janega : The new left <p> Eleanor Janega is a historian and broadcaster , specializing in propaganda , apocalypticism , urbanity , sexuality and empire in the late medieval and early modern periods . She is the co-host of the hit podcast " Gone Medieval . " <p> It 's been a difficult year for voters on the left . <p> Both in the U.K. and the U.S. , formerly center-left parties set about excluding left-wing activists and alienating their traditional voter base : Labour ran a high-profile campaign to drive leftists from the party and is currently boasting of plans to harden the U.K. 's borders -- it now has a net approval rating of -38 . In the U.S. , Democrats campaigned with and promised Cabinet positions to " never-Trump " Republicans more than they spoke about issues of wealth inequality . And in both instances , with no real left to vote for , leftist voters stayed home . <p> Meanwhile , in France , we saw the possibility of a broad-left coalition winning elections and blocking far-right impulses , only to be stymied by French President Emmanuel Macron 's refusal to appoint a prime minister from the group , instead choosing the right-wing Michel Barnier who advocated for ( surprise ! ) stricter controls on non-European immigration . ( Barnier was later brought down by France 's far-right leader Marine Le Pen ) . <p> So , with traditional parties signaling a total indifference to leftist interests and a willingness to disappoint , disaffect and alienate their voters , where can those wishing for a more fair and equitable world turn to find hope and power in 2025 ? <p> One government to watch is that of Mexico , where President Claudia Sheinbaum currently commands an exceptional approval rating of 70 percent after her first 30 days in office . It 's worth noting that those polled pointed to her stances on women 's rights and the continuation of welfare programs as reasons for their approval , showing that the average person responds quite positively to hopeful messages and financial support . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Also of interest are leftist stalwarts like U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders , who acknowledged the trouble with offering voters little more than a continuation of the status quo in his post-election statement . Sanders questioned whether Democrats " have any ideas as to how we can take on the increasingly powerful oligarchy which has so much economic and political power . " Could this signify the beginning of a new project , highlighting a commitment to popular positions for working people ? The left can hope . <p> Another point of hope is the burgeoning left-wing media ecology . There are far more leftist voices and publications available now compared with 2016 , offering incisive analysis and opportunities for collaboration . <h> Mike Duncan : Trump 's best friends <p> Mike Duncan is a political history podcaster and author , best known for the award-winning " History of Rome " ( 2007 -- 2012 ) and " Revolutions " podcasts . <p> Among the biggest beneficiaries of the electoral results in the U.S. will be the Silicon Valley oligarchs who own our global communications networks . <p> Elon Musk bought what was once Twitter , manipulated its algorithms and , as a result , can take some credit for helping elect Trump . Others , like Peter Thiel and Marc Andreessen , have used their billions to fund networks of right-wing agitprop . They will now be further empowered to push a faux-libertarian agenda bent on dismantling the regulatory state and ensuring their companies can do whatever they want , whenever they want , without oversight . <p> Elon Musk bought what was once Twitter , manipulated its algorithms and , as a result , can take some credit for helping elect Donald Trump . Brandon Bell/Getty Images <p> Their fundamental goal is expanding personal wealth , but in pursuing that aim they will warp global discourse to reflect their own worldviews , while facing very little pushback from the political powers in Washington . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Meanwhile , one of the biggest political issues over the past decade has been global migration , and Trump has made it crystal clear that he would n't just prevent new immigrants from entering the U.S. but would also deport millions of people already there . To accomplish this goal he will turn to anti-immigrant zealot Stephen Miller -- the architect of Trump 's cruelest border policies during his first term . Miller will partner with new border czar Tom Homan , promising to round up and deport millions of longtime residents no matter the human or financial cost . Even if Trump 's domestic agenda is stymied on other fronts , Miller and Homan will have free rein to pursue the most brutal policies imaginable . <p> Finally , on the global stage , Trump 's victory will also massively empower two leaders currently engaged in military conflicts . Russian President Vladimir Putin will rejoice at his return to the White House . Expect Trump to dial back assistance to Ukraine and adopt Putin 's framing of the war : that it is the reasonable pursuit of Russia 's national interest . In a conflict that has gone back and forth , 2025 could very easily mark a decisive turning point in Putin 's favor . <p> The other leader empowered by Trump 's victory is Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . U.S. President Joe Biden did very little to check Israel 's genocidal assault on Gaza , but with Trump in the White House , Netanyahu will now feel free to take the conflict to its logical conclusion : clearing Gaza of all Palestinians and annexing the territory . <h> Caterina Froio : Institutions of higher learning <p> Caterina Froio is an associate professor of political science at Sciences Po . Her research specializes in far-right politics , illiberalism , digital media and political participation . <p> Far from being isolated ivory towers , academic institutions are evolving into powerful catalysts for social change . In 2025 , universities will be central to political conflict -- both shaping and being shaped by broader societal transformations . <p> Today , student movements are creating transnational connections to coordinate social struggles under increasingly authoritarian regimes . Their causes include climate action and reproductive , civil and human rights . Their documentation of human rights violations , particularly in regions like Gaza , has gained global attention , reaching as far as the International Criminal Court . <p> The resistance and survival of scholars in these fields will be key . Climate research , for instance , is at the front line of challenging political and corporate narratives that prioritize short-term economic interests over planetary survival . Scholars and students are not merely documenting environmental degradation ; they 're developing innovative solutions for sustainable development and climate adaptation . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> AI research , meanwhile , has emerged as a critical domain in which universities examine the profound moral and practical challenges of technological development . Researchers are creating frameworks for responsible innovation that prioritize human rights , privacy and equitable access -- often in direct opposition to powerful private actors like Elon Musk . <p> This presents the leadership of universities with an unprecedented moral dilemma . Administrators can no longer remain neutral in the escalating " culture wars " between competing societal values . And their decisions -- whether to protect academic freedom and support vulnerable researchers , or to capitulate -- will have profound implications for democratic stability . <p> As global power centers recalibrate and authoritarian tendencies resurge , universities offer a crucial counterweight to democratic erosion . They are spaces where we imagine alternative futures , analyze systemic injustices , and conceptualize collective resistance . The transformation is fundamental : Universities are no longer just educational institutions , they are pivotal actors in the global struggle for social justice , opposing existing power structures and offering critical perspectives that challenge dominant narratives.
