<h> LATEST EDITORIAL <h> Trump 's return will only deepen the war spiral <h> Britain 's best option after the new president is sworn in in January is to simply opt out of his warmongering and demands for military spending , and make our own trade deals independent of the US for once , writes DIANE ABBOTT MP <p> YES TO ARMS FOR UKRAINE , NO TO WINTER FUEL ALLOWANCE : Volodymyr Zelensky ( left ) and Keir Starmer at the meeting of the Nato-Ukraine Council in Washington DC , in July 2024 <h> This is the last article you can read this month <h> You can read more article this month <h> You can read more articles this month <h> Sorry your limit is up for this month <p> THE voters of the US have spoken , even if we did not like what they said . A Donald Trump presidency 2.0 is a fact . All other political forces have to deal with that . The question is how ? <p> The US is now the world 's second-largest economy , behind China . But it remains by far the world 's largest military power , with a military budget that exceeds the next five largest military powers combined . <p> It has military bases in about 80 countries , which is more than all other military powers in the world combined . It is the dominant power in Nato , the largest shareholder in the World Bank and the key ideological influence in the International Monetary Fund . <p> Until relatively recently , all sovereign countries had to bow down to these powers , especially if they were in economic difficulties . The emergence of the Brics group and associated institutions has changed that equation to some extent . But they have not removed the influence of the US-based global institutions and the influence of the " Washington consensus . " <p> As a result , what any US president says or does is of great consequence . Pretending otherwise would be childish politics . <p> But it is equally foolish to pretend that the US is the sole superpower in the world . In simple economic terms , there are four economic zones in the world of roughly equal size . In addition to China and the US , there is also the European Union and the global South . <p> The latest data show how much the British economy is struggling , and exports are the weakest area of the economy . Contrary to all the natural laws of economics , British exports to the EU are actually falling , while non-EU exports have stagnated for several years . <p> Both of these failings need to be addressed urgently via a coherent trade policy . They are essential for jobs and prosperity . That , in turn , requires a coherent foreign policy . From a strategic perspective , what is required is a nuanced , comprehensive and dynamic foreign policy which develops our relationships with all parts of the world for mutual benefit . <p> Yet we have none of this . The recent , farcically bad " free trade " deals with New Zealand and Australia are relevant only in how damaging they are to environmental and welfare standards and to farming . They serve as examples of how you should not conclude a trade deal just because there is a post-Brexit desperation to announce something . <p> Worse , our overall foreign policy is an extremely bellicose one without the firepower to justify the warmongering . The result is to bind this country ever tighter to the US war chariot . <p> It should not be forgotten that it was then prime minister Boris Johnson who scuttled to Kiev to block an emerging peace deal with Moscow in 2022 . The government has also decided that British forces should be deeply involved in not only supplying material and intelligence to be used by Israel in Gaza but also in Lebanon . <p> The recent US/British/Israeli bombings of Yemen fall into the same category . Despite all the denials , there is clearly a division of labour among these allies for an overall assault on an entire region . It is a political choice that Britain is a part of that alliance . A very bad political choice . <p> To demonstrate the total subordination of this country to US war plans , the Royal Navy has previously been sent to the South China Sea with the purpose of raising the tensions in that region . This does not add to our security . It can only impede any efforts to develop a more productive relationship , including on trade . <p> The question is , will this government disavow such provocations and attempt a less subordinate policy , one more aligned with the needs of this country ? The omens are not good . <p> From Ukraine to the entire region centred on Gaza , the government has proven itself a willing cheerleader and participant in US-backed wars . It has even been an outrider for escalation of conflict , as when Keir Starmer went to Washington to press Joe Biden for the use of long-range missiles inside Russia , only to be rebuffed -- initially at least . <p> Crucially , in the midst of renewed austerity , including public services , pay and taxes , Starmer has also pledged ? 3 billion a year " for as long as it takes " to the war effort in Ukraine . This is more than double the " saving " from cutting the winter fuel allowance . Clearly , pensioners are subject to hard choices , arms manufacturers less so . <p> This government , like its predecessors , has been a significant lobbyist for a military spending target for all Nato members to be raised to 2.5 per cent of GDP . Nato leaders like general secretary Mark Rutte are clear that military spending in the European Nato countries will have to rise by cutting social welfare budgets . <p> Now , Trump has upped the ante dramatically . He says he wants Nato countries to raise their military spending to 5 per cent of GDP . Across Europe and including Britain , this could only be achieved by further massive austerity in the other areas of government spending . He has also previously threatened to remove US-Nato protection from any member country which " does not pay for its own defence . " <p> None of this will make this country safer , more prosperous or improve living standards . Therefore , the attempts to win Trump 's favour by capitulating further are not at all in the national interest . Of course , if the national interest is judged to be a close relationship between the British and US secret services or the profits of arms manufacturers , that is a different story . <p> With a now customary lack of political skill or foresight , Starmer appears to have set up a factional rivalry between Peter Mandelson and Morgan McSweeney as to who " really " understands the new president 's wishes and how to interpret them . This is a recipe for competing advice based on the right-wing prejudices of the two antagonists . Bringing Farage into the process confirms its reactionary character . <p> Instead , Britain could opt out of these costly wars ; many European countries do . It could take a vigorous approach to promoting trade with all parts of the world , fix the broken relationship with the EU and promote direct investment globally . It could even occasionally agree with Trump , but only where there is a general benefit to the world . Unfortunately , that is unlikely to be very frequent . <p> Diane Abbott is Labour MP for Hackney North and Stoke Newington . Follow her on X @HackneyAbbott.
