<p> According to the report , this includes branding , sexual violence against children , torture and starvation . <p> The report , which was prepared for the United Nations by the country 's health ministry , said : " Two of the children that were held together during captivity reported that they were held bound and were beaten throughout their captivity . Signs of binding , scars , and marks consistent with trauma were found . <p> " Additionally , two young children had burn marks on their lower limbs . One child stated that the burns were the result of a deliberate branding with a heated object . Both the child and adults who were with him in captivity described the incident as a purposeful branding event , not an accident . It was described as an extremely traumatic experience . " <p> The report also detailed that women , men , and children who returned from captivity reported that they endured " severe physical and sexual abuse , such as beatings , isolation , deprivation of food and water , branding , hair-pulling , and sexual assault " . <p> It said that " additionally , some of them reported that the captors sexually assaulted them or forced them to undress " . <p> Several of the children taken hostage were taken without their parents or after witnessing their murders on Oct 7 , when thousands of militants from terror group Hamas invaded Israel 's southern communities . <p> More than 1,100 people were killed and more than 250 people taken hostage by groups including Hamas , Palestinian Islamic Jihad and other local gangs . <p> Adults also reported sexual abuse in the hands of their captors , some of whom have been rescued from civilian homes , while others have been held since Oct 7 in Hamas 's hundreds of miles long tunnel network under the coastal strip . <p> The report is based on interviews with the medical teams which treated more than 100 hostages Credit : Jack Guez/Getty <p> " One of the returned hostages described being sexually assaulted at gunpoint by a Hamas terrorist , " the report said , while other brave victims such as Amit Soussna have spoken out about their ordeal since their release . <p> " On several occasions , captors forced women of all ages to undress while others , including the captors , watched . Some women reported that the captors sexually assaulted them . In addition , some women reported that they were tied to beds while their captors stared at them . " <p> Another woman , injured during the Oct 7 attack , was held in a dark isolation for 30 days , bound and unable to move . She had no contact with the outside world , received only a small amount of food and water , and did not receive treatment for her injury . <p> Other women also reported starvation and abuse by their captors . <p> Additionally , men also " endured severe physical abuse , including continuous starvation , beatings , burns with galvanised iron ( branding ) , hair-pulling , confinement in closed rooms with a limited amount of food and water , being held in isolation with hands and feet tied , and being denied access to the bathroom , which forced them to defecate on themselves , " the report added . <p> The report also highlights the case of two teenagers who were bound together by their hands and feet , and forced to perform sex acts on each other as well as being sexually abused by their captors , in addition to having their genitals whipped . They were also beaten during their captivity . <p> Many of the hostages who have returned home , either through negotiated deals in November last year , or rescue operations , now struggle to return to normality with long term trauma and mental health symptoms and medical complications such as immune system damage , impaired cognitive function and for children , hindered development and growth . <p> Many others also have no home to return to , coming from the rural communities of the Gaza border where the Hamas attacks left thousands of families homeless . <p> There are still 100 hostages still in Gaza , including British-Israeli Emily Damari . Roughly half of those being held in the strip are believed to still be alive . <p> Of those , there are babies , women and children , such as Kfir and Ariel Bibas , taken at just nine months and four years old , in addition to the sick and elderly in desperate need of care . <p> On Wednesday , as hostage talks continue to flounder and both sides blame each other for a stalemate , the Israeli prime minister 's office released a statement saying : " The Hamas terrorist organisation continues to lie , is reneging on understandings that have already been reached , and is continuing to create difficulties in the negotiations . However , Israel will continue its relentless efforts to return all of our hostages . " <p> A bid to secure a ceasefire in Gaza has gained momentum in recent weeks Credit : Kai Pfaffenbach/Reuters <p> On the same day Bassem Naim , a spokesman for Hamas , said : " The ceasefire and prisoner exchange talks in Doha , mediated by Qatar and Egypt , are progressing seriously , where the ( Hamas ) movement has demonstrated responsibility and flexibility . <p> " The occupation , however , introduced new conditions related to the issues of the withdrawal ( from Gaza ) , the ceasefire , the prisoners , and the return of the displaced people , leading to the delay in reaching an agreement that was within reach . " <p> Hamas wants a full withdrawal of Israel from Gaza and a full ceasefire , while Israel insists that Hamas be totally removed from the strip and all the hostages returned before any deal is done . <p> Hamas is also demanding hundreds of Palestinian prisoners be freed from Israeli jails in return for the hostages , many of whom are serving life sentences on terror charges . <p> Israel also wants to retain control of the Netzarim corridor in order to safeguard from any future terror activity , a clause that Hamas opposes . <p> Isaac Herzog , Israel 's president , released a statement following the publication of the report . He wrote on X : " Torture . Physical and psychological torture . Starvation . Sexual abuse . Beatings . Branding . Just some of the horrific words that jump off the pages of the Ministry of Health 's submission to the UN on the horrific ordeal endured by the hostages at the hands of Hamas terrorist murderers and rapists in Gaza . <p> " These are the testimonies of those who have been released and rescued . But still , for 450 days 100 innocent men , women , and children , babies and the elderly , have been held hostage in Gaza . With the winter upon us , their lives are in imminent danger . The UN has the facts . It is morally obliged to do everything in its power to bring the hostages home now . "
