<p> Israel has set out its case to the UN security council for a full assault on Houthi forces in Yemen , claiming the Iranian-backed group now represents a well-armed terrorist army that threatens not just the regional economy but the entire global order . <p> The Israeli foreign minister , Gideon Sa'ar , also called for the Houthis to be designated as a foreign terrorist organisation , a step that may make it more difficult for Iran to provide material support without facing further economic sanctions . <p> Danny Danon , the Israeli ambassador to the UN -- who had called for the UN security council meeting to discuss the recent escalation in Houthi attacks on Israel -- said the Houthis " were nothing more than part of Iran 's war against peace " . The group , he said , had an annual budget of $1.2bn ( ? 0.95bn ) and came dangerously close to strangling the Suez canal by its attacks on commercial shipping in the Red Sea off the coast of Yemen . <p> He added that " millions of Israelis are waking up every night to the sound of sirens across the country " , accusing the Houthis of launching 300 attacks on Israel this year . <p> He said : " Let me make one thing absolutely clear ; we have had enough . Israel will not stand by and wait for the world to react . We will defend our citizens . " The Houthis were no longer a regional threat but a threat to the world order , he said . <p> While almost all security council members at Monday 's meeting condemned the Houthi attacks on Israel mounted a week ago , many also condemned the Israeli threat to Yemeni civilians represented by the air raids on key power stations , the air traffic control tower at the airport in the capital of Sana'a , and ports which are critical to the delivery of aid . Nine Yemeni civilians were killed in the attacks that Israel said were retaliation for what Danon described as " a relentless Houthi bombardment of Israeli population centres " . <p> Barbara Woodward , the UK envoy to the UN , reiterated Israel 's right to self-defence but warned : " Israel 's action must be consistent with their obligations under international law including protection of civilians . " <p> She said she was " concerned by the attack on Sana'a airport that endangered Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus " . The head of the World Health Organization ( WHO ) was at Sana'a airport when Israeli warplanes struck on Thursday . A crew member from Tedros 's plane was injured in the strike and Tedros said he and his colleagues " escaped death narrowly " . <p> " Humanitarian aid workers must be able to carry out their important work safely and securely , " said Woodward , adding the director general had been in Yemen to seek the release of a group of UN staff held hostage by the Houthis . <p> Israel 's latest remarks appear to be part of a strategic decision to launch further decisive attacks on the Houthis , a strategy it hopes will be endorsed by the incoming Trump administration . Danon portrayed the UN as morally compromised and unwilling to take the steps necessary to enforce an arms embargo on Yemen . <p> Israel wants the UN to interdict ships carrying Iranian weapons to the Houthis though ports such as Hodeidah . The US and the UK governments think the current weak mandate of the UN verification and inspection mechanism needs review . <p> Referring to the narrow escape of the WHO director general and his delegation , Danon said : " We have no control over who is where . We have no intention to bomb to harm NGO or the UN , on the contrary , but if they are in areas where Houthis are , they should be careful because we will not sit idly by . " <p> Vasily Nebenzya , the Russian ambassador to the UN , went further in criticising Israel , saying the attacks were not owing to self-defence , but " are part of military aggression against a sovereign state by the collective west " . He said it was irrelevant if the attack was regarded as retaliation since the scope of destruction was a deliberate escalation , and disproportionate . He accused the US and the UK of being involved in the attacks on civilian infrastructure . <p> The Houthi leader , Abdul-Malik al-Houthi , and the group 's spokesperson , Yahya Qasim Sare'e , have made it clear that as long as the war in Gaza continues , the Houthis will continue to attack shipping and Israel . Some Houthi activists have said on social media that recent attacks on Jaffa are a prelude to an attack on Israeli nuclear sites .
