<p> Antisemitic hate crime reports to West Midlands Police more than tripled after the start of the Hamas-Israel conflict , new figures have shown . There were 83 reports in the year to September 2024 , more than three times the total of 23 in the previous 12 months . <p> The most recent period covered the start of the conflict in autumn 2023 . The figures showed 20 antisemitic hate crime offences were logged in October 2023 by the West Midlands force , compared to one the previous month and nine the following month . <p> Antisemitic offences recorded by other forces , including Greater Manchester and the Metropolitan Police , also rose sharply . A Jewish charity called the findings " unacceptable " . The Government said it was " determined to stamp out the toxic vitriol which is spread by a minority of people " . <p> The figures were obtained by the PA news agency using Freedom of Information requests . Dave Rich , spokesman for the Jewish charity , the Community Security Trust ( CST ) , said : " These figures show similar trends as CST 's own antisemitic data , with a sharp rise in anti-Jewish hate crimes following the October 7 attack last year to levels that have still not returned to what used to be considered ' normal ' . <p> " The increases are even more shocking when set against the relatively small size of the Jewish communities in some of these places . <p> " This kind of anti-Jewish hatred should be unacceptable to all , and we will continue to work closely with police and the CPS up and down the country , alongside local Jewish communities , to reduce the impact of this hatred . " <p> Hamas launched a series of attacks on southern Israel on October 7 2023 , prompting Israel to launch a ground invasion of the Palestinian territory of Gaza . Dame Diana Johnson , Home Office minister for policing , fire and crime prevention , said : " These numbers are deeply troubling . <p> " We are determined to stamp out the toxic vitriol which is spread by a minority of people , and perpetrators of hate crime should be in no doubt that they will face the full force of the law . We must have zero tolerance for antisemitism , Islamophobia and every other form of heinous hate in Britain , and we back the police in taking strong action against those targeting specific communities . " <p> Story Saved <p> You can find this story in My Bookmarks.Or by navigating to the user icon in the top right .
