<p> TOPSHOT - A portrait of slain Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah sits amids debris at Beirut 's southern suburb Rouweiss neighbourhood on October 10 , 2024 , following overnight Israeli strikes . The United States urged its ally Israel to avoid Gaza-like military action in Lebanon , after Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said it could face " destruction " like the Palestinian territory . ( Photo by AFP ) ( Photo by -/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> Hezbollah Secretary-General Hassan Nasrallah underestimated Israel 's willingness to assassinate him , believing that Israel wanted to avoid a full-scale war , according to a New York Times investigation published on Sunday . <p> Despite warnings from his aides , he remained in a Beirut bunker 40 feet underground on September 27 , which is where Israeli F-15 fighter jets dropped massive explosives , ending the life of the longtime leader of Iran 's Lebanese terrorist proxy along with other senior Hezbollah leaders . <p> His body was found the next day , buried in the rubble in the embrace of a top Iranian general based in Lebanon , both having died of suffocation , according to Israeli intelligence reports . <p> The Times investigation showed the extent of Israel 's decades-long penetration into the radical Shi'ite movement , closely tracking the terrorist group 's commanders and culminating in the targeted killing of Nasrallah , which was preceded by weeks earlier by the remote detonation of thousands of pagers and walkie-talkies used by Hezbollah . <p> Drawing on interviews with more than two dozen current and former officials from Israel , the United States , and Europe , the Times article paints a picture of an organization deeply compromised by Israeli espionage efforts . <p> The Israelis had almost total access to Nasrallah through listening devices in Hezbollah bunkers , placed by double agents and were able to track the day to day movements of all of Hezbollah 's leadership . <p> In 2012 , the Israel Defense Forces ' 8200 signals intelligence unit obtained a cache of information detailing the leaders ' secret hideouts and the group 's stockpile of missiles and rockets . <p> The reporting also revealed that in late 2023 , a Hezbollah technician got suspicious about the batteries in the rigged walkie-talkies , and in September , Unit 8200 received intelligence that Hezbollah operatives were sending pagers to Iran for inspection . <p> Fearing that the operation might be compromised , senior intelligence officials convinced Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to authorize the detonation of the devices , initiating the series of events that led to Nasrallah 's assassination . <p> A fragile ceasefire went into effect on November 27 , after more than a year of hostilities in which Hezbollah terrorists launched thousands of rockets , missiles and drones at Israeli territory , mostly in the north , where nearly 70,000 residents were evacuated . Israel responded with a devastating aerial campaign and , beginning on October 1 , a ground invasion of Southern Lebanon . <p> It was reported on Sunday that Israel might keep troops positioned in areas of Southern Lebanon past the 60-day deadline for a withdrawal because the Lebanese Army is slow to fulfil its obligation to deploy south of the Litani River and soldiers are still finding Hezbollah weapons and infrastructure . <p> The IDF has confiscated more than 85,000 weapons , missiles and other terrorism apparatuses belonging to Hezbollah in Southern Lebanon , a military spokesperson revealed on Friday . <p> Under the terms of the ceasefire deal reached with Beirut , Israeli forces are to withdraw gradually from the country . <p> Hezbollah must retreat north of the Litani River , about 20 miles north of the border , while the Lebanese Armed Forces deploy along the 75-mile frontier , along with monitors from the U.N . Interim Force in Lebanon ( UNIFIL ) .
