<p> Last year began in the Middle East under the dark clouds of the Hamas massacre that had occurred in October 2023 , and the resulting war in Gaza . New Year 's Day 2024 started with a large barrage of Hamas rockets being fired just after midnight -- timed to try to show Israel that it could not win the war . <p> Hamas is still trying to fire rockets into Israel , a year on . On December 28 it fired two long-range rockets from northern Gaza , setting off alarms across communities between Jerusalem and Gaza . <p> These few rockets were likely from a stock of that have been sitting around since October 2023 , buried and ready to be fired . Hamas has had a hard time rebuilding its rocket arsenal since . However , the terrorist group continues to hold 100 hostages . <p> The continuing war in Gaza is , of course , not the only thing taking place in the Middle East . The Iranian-backed Houthis in Yemen continue to attack both Israel and shipping in the Red Sea . Hezbollah is still making trouble in Lebanon . <p> But there are bright spots . The Assad regime in Syria was overthrown on December 8 . It melted away and seemed to fall apart within a few days , almost as if it had never existed . <p> This was a strange way for the regime to collapse and is a reminder that authoritarian structures rot from the inside and can appear stronger than they really are . The Assad regime survived with backing from Russia and Iran . It was propped up with the help of Iranian-backed militias in Iraq . However , it was a rotting door and all that had to be done to destroy it was to kick it in . <p> The fall of the Assad regime could bring some hope to the region . Perhaps things can change . Perhaps Hamas might collapse as well , with the right sort of decisive action . Iran is weakened by the decline of Assad and other problems it faces economically . <p> In December Iran 's foreign minister flew to Beijing to participate in a round of talks with his Chinese counterpart . <p> They also discussed the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation , one of the economic groups that Iran has sought to become a part of , alongside BRICS , the international organisation comprising Brazil , Russia , India , China , South Africa , Iran , Egypt , Ethiopia , and the United Arab Emirates . <p> Iran wants to orient itself toward the east and work with Russia and China . Its move toward China is part of the new world order that is emerging as countries move to challenge the West and the US . <p> Another factor is that Iran has seen its proxies weakened and it knows it wasted huge resources on Hezbollah , Assad , the Houthis and Iraq . It hollowed out Iraq , Yemen , Lebanon and Syria and bankrupted them . Then Iranian-backed militias fed off these countries until there was nothing left . <p> Lebanon is a disaster because of Hezbollah . Yemen is a disaster because of the Houthis . The only truly successful part of Iraq is the Kurdistan region where Iran 's militias are not present . Iran is a predatory regime that has destroyed the Middle East -- and many countries now understand this . They see the ruin in Gaza and in Syria and understand Iran 's hands are behind this . <p> Could this ruin lead to a new birth of hope in the region ? The Arab Spring was supposed to be that hope but it ended in civil wars and bloodshed . Today , things have changed . People have learned the lessons from al-Qaeda and Islamic State . Perhaps they have learned the lessons from what Hamas has brought on Gaza . If they have , they should begin to speak up . They should throw off the shackles of Iran 's policies . People should wake up in Gaza and realise that " resistance " has brought them ruin . Iran wants to use others as tools and proxies . It mobilises people and denies them a university education , handing them an AK-47 rather than a diploma . Iran sends legions of people to fight in worthless wars so that Tehran 's regime can relax while others perish . <p> Israel has borne the brunt of this tragedy with the October 7 attack . Syria has also suffered , as have the Lebanese and Iraqis , as well as people in Yemen . There may be hope that the tide is turning . As we all know , the tide does not change quickly . It changes slowly , imperceptibly . Then it inches its way out , uncovering new land until it finally flows away . <p> The tide did not turn in the Second World War quickly . Who could have known in the ruins of Stalingrad or at El-Alamein that a new dawn was rising ? Who could know today that in the ruins of Gaza perhaps there is hope ? In the ruins of many cities in Syria , destroyed by 13 years of civil war , there may be hope . <p> Young leaders are emerging . Ahmed Shara'a , the leader of Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , led his group to victory over Assad . <p> He has made statements that speak of a new inclusive Syria , free from Iran . He has spoken about incorporating Kurds and Druze and other groups into the new Syria . <p> It 's true his background is that of an extremist . But extremists can change . He may be seeking to change . We should trust , but verify , as the proverb says . <p> Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman is another young leader in the region . Together , these younger leaders might point the way to a new Middle East unshackled from past decades . Israel has a role to play here as a pioneering state with hi-tech industry . Other countries such as the UAE and the Gulf states have much to offer . There will be countries that want to spoil this optimism . However , it is worth pausing and having hope for the future . <p> ? <p> Seth J. Frantzman is the senior Middle East analyst for the Jerusalem Post , an adjunct Fellow at The Foundation for Defense of Democracies and author of The October 7 War : Israel 's Battle for Security in Gaza
