<p> Speaking on a business podcast two weeks ago , Bouattoura said : " With Jewish people , they are very greedy as well . When one person has you , everyone wants you . If you 're the best at something , everyone wants you . <p> " For them , money is n't valuable in a way that they can afford anything . It gets to a point where if they can afford it , they have full control over you . But I never allowed that to happen . <p> When discussing his views on investment and business practices , he told Kazi Shafiqur Rahman , who hosts the Side by Side Podcast , that " there are no rules " for Jewish people when it comes to financial dealings , contrasting this with the " loads of rules " that Muslims must follow . <p> However , six years ago , Bouattoura - who grew up as a Muslim in Stamford Hill -- appeared to be a vocal supporter of the Jewish community . <p> Bouattoura told the JC in a 2018 interview how he had turned his life around with the help of his Jewish clients . <p> He credited his " loyal Jewish clientele " with helping him stay out of prison and rebuild his life after spending time in a Young Offenders Institution . <p> " Without them , I believe I would still be in prison , " he said . <p> Bouattoura , who had previously been involved in gang culture and had spent time behind bars , also revealed he had raised more than ? 20,000 for Jewish charities like Norwood , One Family , Gift , and Rays of Sunshine by hosting fitness events at which attendees donated to charity . <p> In 2018 , Bouattoura even visited Israel with his brother Idris , where they ran free fitness classes on the beach . <p> Reflecting on his time there , Bouattoura spoke with admiration about the diversity he witnessed . He said , " You have Muslims , Jews , Christians -- everyone together and they were all friendly . It 's not like they show you on the media . Of course , it can be more complicated , but we saw people together . " <p> During the trip , Bouattoura expressed how much he learned from the Jewish community , particularly their emphasis on family , solidarity , and charity . " The Jewish community is the most giving group I have met , which is why I have always wanted to give back to them , " he said . <p> Yusef Bouattoura lead a superbike gang protest in central London earlier this month ( Image : Instagram @pro.pt ) <p> The Metropolitan Police were made aware of the Bond Street incident but confirmed in a statement that by the time they arrived , the group had already dispersed . <p> " We understand that the drivers ' presence and behaviour caused disruption and intimidation to those in the area . We are looking into the circumstances of the incident to establish if any criminal offences have been committed and will take action if so , " the police said . <p> Bouattoura used the rally to promote a 100km run to raise ? 100,000 for a Gaza relief fund , writing alongside footage of the protest : " Let 's make history ! In less than 24 hours I 'll be running 100k for 100k " . <p> When approached for comment regarding his controversial remarks , Bouattoura responded with a simple phrase : " FREE PALESTINE , " followed by the Palestinian flag emoji . <p> He later added , " The reason I said Free Palestine is because I believe everyone in the world should be free . Palestine is one of the areas the world is focused on right now . There can be a two-state solution where Palestine is free and Israel is equally free . If that can end the conflict , then I believe it 's a good thing . " <p> Bouattoura clarified : " I do n't hate anyone . I believe in peace and love for all . Anyone who has faith , whichever religion you follow , or even if you do n't follow any religion , everyone should believe in peace , justice , and freedom for all . I understand every community in the world has good and bad . In reality , where good people have helped me in life , whatever religion they follow -- including the Jewish community -- I 'm grateful to them . Peace , love , justice , and freedom . "
