<p> Buildings lie in ruins in the Gaza Strip , December 18 , 2024 . Like all reporting and imagery coming out of parts of Gaza not under IDF control , this picture has been cleared for release by Hamas Credit : Dawoud Abo Alkas/Anadolu <p> When you 're invited onto national radio to discuss a rise in religious hate crime of a Monday morning , you do n't expect to end up being pursued for the " Jewish figures " for the numbers of dead in Gaza . <p> But this is the post-October 7 universe , and if the past 14 months have taught us anything , it is this : when it comes to Israel and Jews , you can never underestimate the Left enough . <p> The story began when I appeared on LBC to be interviewed by a chap called Matthew Wright , a deeply liberal journalist who has previously worked for Channel 5 and as a showbiz columnist for the Daily Mirror . We were due to discuss the fact that some of Britain 's largest police forces have recorded a steep increase in antisemitic incidents after the pogroms of October 2023 , as well as a spike in anti-Muslim criminality following the stabbings of three little girls in Southport . <p> My heart sank before I had even uttered a word . In his introduction , Wright confided that he had already drawn his own conclusions about the reasons for the rise in bigotry . Of these there were two : Nigel Farage and Allison Pearson . <p> The Reform leader was under suspicion , apparently , because he had been blamed for " inciting " riots with comments after the stabbings . As for Allison Pearson , she was in the frame because the police had knocked on her door to accuse her of posting something intemperate on X , before later humiliatingly dropping their investigation . <p> I know , I know . But somebody had to wade through this rising tide of nonsense , and it looked like on this occasion it had to be me . I opened my remarks by pointing out , somewhat wearily , that the Southport suspect -- whom , funnily enough , LBC had revealed as a " Christian " two days after the stabbings -- was later alleged to have been in possession of an Al Qaeda training manual and charged with a terrorism offence . So to pillory Farage for doubting the official account was a bit rich . <p> As for Allison , well , she had n't done anything wrong , had she ? That was the whole point . Wright , undeterred , insisted that the media was to blame for the surge in religious hatred . I found myself agreeing , but not in the way he had expected . <p> The broadcast media , I pointed out , was guilty of parroting Hamas casualty figures without mentioning that at least half of the casualties were terrorists . They also air footage of suffering civilians without acknowledging that Hamas censors it all first , which explains why viewers never see pictures of dead or wounded jihadis . <p> As a result of this pincer movement of propaganda , the public is given the impression that Israel is targeting civilians . The truth is that the IDF has killed fewer civilians per combatant than any other army in the history of warfare . As Lord Roberts put it earlier in the conflict , speaking in Parliament : <p> " War is hell , and every individual civilian death is a tragedy , but -- I speak as a military historian -- less than 2:1 is an astonishingly low ratio for modern urban warfare where the terrorists routinely use civilians as human shields . It is a testament to the professionalism , ethics and values of the Israel Defense Forces . " <p> But once members of the public feel that they have seen this stuff " with their own eyes " on television , the facts have no effect . It was hardly a surprise that such national media brainwashing had provoked a great increase in hostility towards Jews among those who were already so inclined . <p> It was at that point that Wright demanded , apropos of nothing , that I tell him how many children had been killed in the war . " How many ? " he said . " I just want to know what the accurate Jewish figure is . " Sorry , the ... the what ? <p> Now , an uncharitable interpretation of the " Jewish figure " statement might include the words " Freudian " and " slip " . Far be it from me , however , to reach into the soul of a leftist broadcaster and pull out the oldest hatred ; but it was a bit , well , a bit odd . <p> For the next few minutes , it was all I could do to get a word in edgeways , as the man continually interrupted me , demanding that I speak about how many " children " had lost their lives . In the end , I managed to explain that the reason the Hamas propaganda is so effective is that it taps into latent antisemitism that has been embedded in our culture for centuries . <p> Take the blood libel , which first emerged in Norwich in 1144 . William , a 12-year-old boy , was found murdered and a monk by the name of Thomas of Monmouth claimed without evidence that the Jews had done it . So began the conspiracy theory that Jews are possessed of an especial relish for the blood of children . <p> " I do n't have any animosity towards Jewish people , I just want to know how many children have been killed , " the liberal presenter insisted . <p> And so the interview ended , with Wright none the wiser about the true causes of the rise in antisemitic criminality which he , of course , so deeply deplored .
