<h> Sign up to The JC newsletter <h> I can think of at least three reasons for Jews to be in happy in 2025 <p> In a sea of darkness , we have some rays of light ... <p> LONDON , ENGLAND - NOVEMBER 26 : Protestors wear flags of Israel on their backs as they march against anti-Semitism on November 26 , 2023 in London , England . The ongoing war between Israel and Hamas has sparked a wave of protests across Europe , and heightened concerns over anti-Semitism among Jewish communities . ( Photo by Alishia Abodunde/Getty Images ) <p> December 31 , 2024 09:50 <p> On the first night of Chanukah , the Jewish artist Zoe Buckman shared a picture of her menorah on Instagram , along with a selection of other slides featuring recent headlines of violence against Jews . " I want to say something about light leading the way &amp; the resilience of the Maccabees &amp; about empathy &amp; love &amp; all those truths &amp; ideals I hold dear ... but I ca n't right now , " she wrote . And I thought : same . <p> The news , as ever , is bleak . At the time of writing , more than 100 hostages remain in Gaza . The need to bring them home feels more urgent than ever , following the publication of a report by the Israeli health ministry detailing the torture endured by those who have returned . <p> Rocket attacks by the Houthis have had Israelis scrambling into bomb shelters in the early hours of the morning for over a week and Israel 's retaliatory action has , of course , been met with scorn and hysteria by the usual suspects . Eighty-three-year-old Holocaust survivor Ludmila Lipovsky was stabbed to death by a Palestinian terrorist in Herzliya and no one outside of the Jewish world seemed to notice . <p> Still , the hope of Chanukah is hard to resist . By the fourth night -- with the last of the turkey and Christmas pudding finally behind me , freeing up space for latkes and doughnuts -- I found myself feeling humming the 1979 classic Reasons To Be Cheerful , Pt. 3 by Ian Drury and the Blockheads , and decided that even I can think of one , two or even three points of positivity from the past year to carry into 2025 . So , here we go ... <p> ? <p> Our amazing allies <p> Like all of the things in life worth having , when it comes to allies it 's about quality , not quantity . At least that 's what I 'm telling myself . Because while the number of people sticking their non-Jewish necks on the line in our defence may be small , they are mighty . I 'm thinking of people like former British paratrooper and defence expert Andrew Fox ; US congressman Ritchie Torres ; British journalist Douglas Murray . Then we have our burgeoning community of Iranian allies , such as the attorney and social media activist Elica Le Bon , who is a shining light of truth in a sea of online misinformation . And who can forget our Arab allies , both Christian and Muslim , who risk so much to speak the truth ? Legends such as Mosab Hassan Yousef and Yoseph Haddad , who recently defended Israel at the Oxford Union ; my fellow JC contributor Loay Alshareef ; Yemeni-born journalist Luai Ahmed and former Iraqi Miss Universe contestant Sarah Idan , to name a few . Yes , our enemies may have recruited throngs of students ( who could n't name The River or The Sea if their lives depended on it ) and " life-long antiracists " with curiously Jewish-shaped blindspots , but our allies are smart , diverse , and have integrity in spades . <p> ? <p> The renaissance of Jewish communal life <p> l I think Eylon Levy captured the mood perfectly when he wrote on X : " Antisemites think all the Jews share a secret WhatsApp group . What they do n't know is we 're all in the same 50 WhatsApp groups , and they 're all muted/archived . " Is it ideal that the majority of Jews in the diaspora feel so abandoned by their non-Jewish friends and colleagues that they 've sought solace in each other ? No . But the resulting rejuvenation of Jewish communal life is still a beautiful thing to behold ( even if we all find at least half of the people in our new Jewish WhatsApp groups completely unbearable ) . Family , eh ! <p> ? <p> Israel is not only surviving but thriving <p> l I 'm conscious as I write this that I have my rose-tinted , diaspora-dwelling Zionist glasses on and that , speaking to sabras , I usually get quite a different perspective . But I 'm grasping for straws here , so indulge me . From my safe distance in London , it 's hard to think of another country that , while fighting a war of survival on seven fronts , would still be so full of love and life . Two positive headlines in particular stood out recently and seem to capture Israel 's resilience and hope for the future . The first , that Israeli tech firms have raised about $7.22 ? billion from investors , an increase of 32 per cent compared with the same period last year . Eat that , BDS ! <p> The second , a poll by the Moshe Dayan Center at Tel Aviv University , found that just over half of Arab Israelis ( 51.6 per cent ) feel that the prolonged war against Hamas in Gaza has given rise to a sense of " shared destiny " between Arab and Jewish citizens of Israel . Apartheid , who ? <p> So that 's it . I 've plumbed the depths of my soul for some shards of light . I do hope you appreciate them . <p> Now , exhausted from my efforts , I 'm going to take the Blockheads up on their suggestion and " get back into bed " .
