<p> The images that form in our head are of presents piled under a Christmas tree , bright twinkling lights , holly and decorations , and a table laden with festive food . <p> But for Christians , Christmas is a time to remember . To remember the story of people under pressure offering hospitality in the little space they had . To remember a refugee family escaping the threat of death ; to remember a fragile newborn baby who would bring hope to an uncertain world . <p> I have been thinking a lot recently about this unstoppable power of hope . <p> Earlier this year I became the Chair of Christian Aid , the international development and humanitarian agency of the British and Irish churches and member of global church-based organisation ACT Alliance . <p> As of next year , Christian Aid will have been fighting poverty and injustice for 80 years . In that time , we have partnered with communities and organisations across the world , to support people of every faith and belief . <p> Throughout those decades , hope has compelled Christian Aid to stand up for communities in crisis and to support people living in poverty . Right now , we all need hope more than ever . From the climate crisis to the tragic events unfolding across the world , from Gaza to Ukraine and South Sudan , we need to offer hope to communities in crisis . <p> STORIES of hope too often go untold . Yolanda Leon can tell such a story . After three hours on a bumpy country road , I met her at her home , deep in the mountains of Santander , Colombia . <p> After an amazing home-cooked breakfast of potato broth and arepas flatbread made from cornmeal , Yolanda showed us around her agroecology vegetable garden and farm . She shared with us the different techniques passed down through generations , supported by Christian Aid 's local partner , Corambiente . <p> Advertisement <p> Suddenly , under a tree bearing abundant avocados , she started laboriously to pull up a plant , which turned out to be turmeric . " To take to my mum and aunt 's house , " she said . <p> Women 's agricultural production is primarily focused on improving the diet that they and their family consume . However , they also produce a surplus that they sell to the Mankka market . The profit is theirs , and this has given the women a level of autonomy within the family and community . <p> Yolanda was just one of the many partners I met in Colombia on my first international trip with Christian Aid . Thanks to the generosity of Christian Aid supporters , our partners are helping women to take up leadership roles in their communities . <p> I left with an overriding feeling of hope . Why ? Because I know the future of Colombia is safe in the hands of our partners and those women . <p> But this can only happen with the right approach . An approach that is about shifting power , money , and decision-making to local communities . <p> WITH Christian Aid 's 80th anniversary year just around the corner , I find myself asking : What do I hope 2025 will bring ? I know what Christian Aid 's mantra must be : Why us ? Why not local leadership ? <p> The truth is , we are changing . As we seek to live up to our values , there are plenty of areas where we still need to improve , and this is one significant shift we are ready to make . <p> In the future , responding to the power of the prophetic voice , I can see us playing more of a convening , connecting , and catalytic role , linking the local to the global and supporting wider movements for change . <p> This will require more of the capacity and capability we have built up inside Christian Aid to be located in our partners , creating opportunities to shift power to people living in poverty , so that they can make their voices heard and create their own opportunities for a life free from poverty . It will mean measuring our effectiveness by how we tackle the climate crisis and poverty , and how we support the most marginalised , rather than by any financial scale . <p> Might that create some uncertainties ? Yes . But then I think again of Christmas . I remember that the circumstances into which the Christ-child was born were full of risk and uncertainty . Yet that birth , in those circumstances , represents the hope that God has for us . An unstoppable hope that ca n't be conquered by war , disease , poverty , or death . In the power of that hope , I know how much we , our partners , and people with Yolanda 's determination , can achieve .
