<h> Plus : US in mourning for Trump 's inauguration ; how Jimmy Carter 's comedy added verve to his diplomacy ; and Bob Geldof 's run-in with Tony Blair <p> Parliamentary discourse may seem old-fashioned but modern slang still creeps in . An analysis of Hansard by Politics Home found that debates in 2024 featured the first mentions of " delulu " , short for delusional , used by Labour 's Amanda Martin , and " nepo baby " . The latter , someone who owes success to family connections , was first used in September by Peter Fortune , a new Tory , about Pitt the Younger , and repeated later by Oliver Dowden about various hereditary Labour MPs . This year also saw a record usage of " union paymasters " , a phrase that first appeared in Hansard in 1971 but was deployed 11 times on September 10 alone this year , while the 27 instances of Nimby was one shy of the record . There were also 490 uses of " black hole " to describe the economy . Here 's hoping that some MPs got new attack lines for Christmas . <h> Low standards <p> Jimmy Carter 's death will have an unintended effect on Donald Trump 's inauguration . Under US law , when a former president dies flags must be flown at half-mast on all public buildings for 30 days , so when Trump is sworn in on January 20 it will look like a nation in mourning . This last happened in 1973 , when Harry Truman died 25 days before Richard Nixon started his second term . To add to the ill omen , Lyndon Johnson died on January 22 , so flags were dipped for almost two months . <p> The key to diplomacy is often less what you say but how it translates . Carter knew this from when he gave a speech in Japan after leaving the White House and opened with a joke . To his surprise , the audience howled with laughter . " It was n't even my funniest , " Carter said . Later , he asked why it went so well . His interpreter admitted that he had said to them : " The president told a funny story . Everyone must laugh . " <h> The lead role <p> Just like last year , the veteran Tory MP Andrew Mitchell did n't get what he wanted for Christmas : a Welsh springer spaniel to replace his beloved Scarlet Whosabootiful Mitchell ( yes , her full name ) , twice runner-up in Westminster Dog of the Year , who died in 2023 . " You 're after the cuddles but not the commitment , " his wife told him . Mitchell replied that now he is no longer working in the Foreign Office he has more time for walkies . " Negotiations continue , " he tells me . Until then , he 'll have to make do with cuddles from two imminent new grandchildren . <p> Also disappointed were Layla Moran , a Lib Dem MP , and Carla Denyer , the Green co-leader , who had told a Westminster politics blog that they wanted peace in Gaza for Christmas . I suspect that Chris Curtis , Labour MP for Milton Keynes North , had more joy with his desire for a new pair of trainers . <h> Advertisement <p> Bob Geldof unleashed his frustrations on Labour bigwigs <p> SAM TABONE/GETTY IMAGES <h> Lost in the post <p> The new release from the National Archives includes a letter that Bob Geldof sent to Tony Blair in 2003 , seeking his support for Africa . It seems that he was frustrated by the pace of government decisions since it ends with the sarcastic comment : " Something short of the normal seven-week delay in response would be welcome . Do you use Royal Mail ? " Geldof also asked why Alastair Campbell , Blair 's newly departed spin chief , had been so friendly to him when they were on a TV show . " Was he looking for a job ? " he wrote .
