<p> At Reach and across our entities we and our partners use information collected through cookies and other identifiers from your device to improve experience on our site , analyse how it is used and to show personalised advertising . You can opt out of the sale or sharing of your data , at any time clicking the " Do Not Sell or Share my Data " button at the bottom of the webpage . Please note that your preferences are browser specific . Use of our website and any of our services represents your acceptance of the use of cookies and consent to the practices described in our Privacy Notice and Cookie Notice . <h> Unique Liverpool restaurant hopes to open three more venues <p> The Gulf House restaurant hopes to open three more venues in the next two years . Located in Madison Square , off Duke Street , The Gulf House brought an authentic Arabic experience to the city in September . <p> The restaurant has been designed to look like a traditional 1970s ' souk in Dubai , complete with terracotta mud-effect walls , Arabic script decoration and woven rugs and furniture . Although there are tables and chairs in some areas , guests will take off their shoes as they enter before sitting on the floor to enjoy an authentic sharing feast . <p> ? <p> A spokesman for Gulf House restaurant said : " We expected a successful start , but it has surpassed anything we could have hoped for . To have had so many customers , especially English customers , wanting to experience our food and our culture has been truly amazing . " <p> ? <p> The business initially hoped to open three restaurants in Manchester in 2026 . The success of the Liverpool site , which saw more than 1,500 people visit during its opening weekend , has brought expansion plans forward to 2025 . <p> The spokesperson added : " Manchester was part of our business plan for 2026 , but not this soon . We believe the success of Gulf House is due to a sense of nostalgia as many guests have either visited places like Dubai or worked in the Middle East and are eager to relive the warm memories of those experiences . " <p> Article continues below <p> " In times of a cost of living crisis people want to know they 're going to get value for money with no compromise on the flavours or quality of the dishes being served . But it 's not just about the food , it 's about the experience , and sharing our culture and a little escapism , and guests love that too.It 's about bringing our food and our culture together under one roof . " <p> The Gulf House restaurant has also committed to donating 5% of its net profit to support the children of Gaza . The team said this is not " temporary " but a " core part of the Gulf House ethos . "
