<h> 2024 in review : Vatican controversies missed by the mainstream press <p> ROME -- At year 's end , it 's standard journalistic practice to look back at the most important stories of the past 12 months . Since plenty of people already do that on the Vatican beat , I decided a long time ago to go another direction by offering a list of the most under-covered Vatican stories of the year . <p> By that , I mean stories which were important , but which , for one reason or another , did n't generate a lot of buzz , either in the mainstream media or the specialized Catholic press . It 's not that they were n't covered at all , simply that the volume of coverage was n't proportionate to the inherent merits of the story . <p> So , let 's begin . <h> Five : The Martinelli Verdict <p> A Vatican trial regarding alleged sexual abuse in the Pre-Seminary of S. Pius X , then located on Vatican grounds , had the misfortune of unfolding around the same time as the " Trial of the Century " pivoting on charges of financial crime against a Prince of the Church , Italian Cardinal Angelo Becciu , and nine other defendants.at the volume of coverage was n't proportionate to the inherent merits of the story . <p> There 's only so much airtime or column inches news outlets are going to devote to Vatican trials , and the one involving a cardinal in the dock was destined to be the clear winner . <p> Nevertheless , the fact that in January 2024 , on appeal , Father Gabriele Martinelli , a 32-year-old priest from the northern Italian city of Como , became the first cleric ever convicted by a papal court for sexual abuse committed on Vatican grounds is significant in itself . That the conviction involved abuse committed when Martinelli himself was a seminarian , against a fellow ( though younger ) seminarian , makes it precedent-setting . <p> For bonus points , it also raises questions about the role of Cardinal Oscar Cantoni , the bishop of Como , the diocese which sponsored the pre-seminary . Cantoni ordained Martinelli in 2016 , despite the fact that allegations against him were already in the air . <h> Four : Frociaggine <p> The first time in 2024 that Pope France used the term frociaggine , a bit of Italian slang roughly meaning " faggotry , " it certainly was n't under-covered : It created a global sensation , with the basic conclusion being that an aging pontiff and non-native Italian speaker simply had a slip of the tongue . The media conclusion appeared to be that the pope of " Who am I to judge ? " certainly would n't use a term seen as pejorative towards gays on purpose . <p> The second time Pope Francis used the term , just one month later , it did n't generate anything like the same attention , for the simple reason that it contradicted the narrative from the first go-around : Obviously by then Francis knew full well what the term signifies , and to employ it a second time in public proves it was n't an accident . <p> Bottom line : This pope clearly does believe there 's an unhealthy gay element to clerical culture , however much that assertion may contradict his generally liberal reputation ( and therefore draw less coverage than it deserves ) . <h> Three : Vatican Labor Unrest <p> Vatican law does not permit worker strikes , and one understands why . Italians love their scioperi , or " strikes , " so much so that newspapers actually carry columns noting who 's on strike today . Yet if strikes were permitted in the pope 's backyard , 2024 might have set a new record . <p> The Associazione Dipendenti Laici Vaticano , or " Association of Vatican Lay Employees , " which is the closest thing to a union the place has , issued a series of increasingly plaintive and alarmist communiques throughout the year , warning that " financial reform " is a codeword for trying to balance budgets on the backs of workers who 've already put up with freezes on hiring that mean everybody has to work harder and longer , suspensions of pay increases based on seniority , a suspension of overtime pay , increases in rent for their Vatican apartments , and warnings that their pensions may not be there when they retire . <p> In a grand irony , while participants in the Synod of Bishops on Synodality extolled dialogue and inclusion , the workers who set their tables , photocopied their documents , made their coffee and rolls and swept up after them , could n't even get higher-ups in the Vatican to acknowledge their existence , much less have a serious conversation . <p> If the pope wants reform to work , opening a dialogue with his own workforce is probably a good idea . <h> Two : Criminal Charge against a Vatican Official <p> During 2024 , a criminal charge was filed in a Peruvian court against Spanish Monsignor Jordi Bertomeu by two individuals who were witnesses in a Vatican investigation concerning the Sodalitium Christianae Vitae , an inquiry which Bertomeu had been in the country to help lead . <p> The two individuals have also filed a canonical complaint against Bertomeu in a Vatican court , which is a different matter . In both cases , the charge is that he violated their confidentiality by leaking their identities and details of their testimonies , claims which have been disputed by several other observers . <p> The fact the criminal charge in Peru was n't immediately dismissed , but instead is apparently under consideration by the Peruvian Attorney General , is astonishing and unprecedented . ( Frankly , it 's also astonishing that private citizens in Peru can file criminal charges at all , but that 's a topic for a different day . ) <p> The Vatican is a sovereign entity under intentional law , so its officials merit diplomatic protection -- either personal , in the case of embassy staff , or conduct-based , for other personnel in a foreign country on official business . In addition , the Catholic Church is also a religious organization , so to interfere in the way its leadership conducts internal church affairs is an obvious violation of religious freedom . <p> Beyond those concerns , allowing private citizens to file criminal complaints against Vatican investigators also would undercut the ability of the Holy See to investigate abuse complaints around the world , at a time when pretty much everybody is demanding that the Vatican act decisively to deliver swift and sure justice . <p> However this case is decided , it will set a massively consequential precedent , and the fact it 's drawn such relatively scant attention is , frankly , startling . <h> One : Crisis in Jewish/Christian Relations <p> 2024 opened with the Chief Rabbi of Rome , Riccardo Di Segni , using a January 17 address at the Jesuit-run Gregorian University to denounce what he called " regressive theology and substantial misunderstanding of the situation " by the Vatican since Hamas 's attacks on October 7 2023 , complaining of " a jumble of political and religious declarations that have left us confused and offended . " Di Segni said it all added up to " many steps backward " in Jewish-Catholic dialogue . <p> The year ended with three distinct vignettes . <p> First , on December 7 images made the rounds of Pope Francis gazing up a nativity set in the Paul VI Audience Hall with the baby Jesus resting on a black-and-white checked keffiyeh , a key symbol of Palestinian resistance . Naturally , the tableau ruffled feathers in Israeli and Jewish circles . <p> Second , on December 22 , Pope Francis opened his annual address to the Roman Curia with impromptu remarks on Gaza , claiming that the Latin Rite Patriarch of Jerusalem , Cardinal Pierbattista Pizzaballa , had been blocked from entering by Israeli authorities . The Israeli Embassy to the Holy See issued an immediate denial , and the next day Pizzaballa 's delegation entered Gaza as planned . <p> Third , also in those December 22 remarks , Francis referred to Israeli airstrikes that struck children as " cruel " . The Israeli Foreign Ministry immediately responded : " Cruelty is terrorists hiding behind children while trying to murder Israeli children ; cruelty is holding 100 hostages for 442 days , including a baby and children , by terrorists and abusing them , " adding , " Enough with the double standards and the singling out of the Jewish state and its people . " <p> Reports in the Israeli media also suggest the government has summoned the papal nuncio for a formal protest . <p> In between those bookends , 2024 saw a group of Jewish scholars write the pontiff to ask him to do more to show sympathy for Israel 's suffering as a result of October 7 ; an Italian cardinal praising an Italo-Tunisian rapper who cried out " Stop the Genocide ! " during Italy 's most popular annual music festival ; the pope 's top diplomat calling the Israeli military response to October 7 " disproportionate " ; and an essay in L'Osservatore Romano arguing that anti-Semitism has been a curse not only for Jews but also for Palestinians , because it was the legacy of the Holocaust that set the stage for the partition , the 1948 war and the Palestinian exile . <p> That , by the way , is just a partial list of contretemps . Many drew a bit of coverage when they occurred , others did n't , but few observers connected the dots to present the big picture : All in all , 2024 was probably the most difficult year for Catholic-Jewish relations since the Vatican and Israel launched full diplomatic relations in 1993 . <p> After Nostrae Aetate in 1965 , coupled with St John Paul II 's watershed visit to the Western Wall in Jerusalem in 2000 , it 's been taken for granted that Jewish-Catholic friendship is forever . This is perhaps the first year in the last quarter-century which has caused experts on both sides to question that assumption .
