<p> Pro-Palestinian activists and supporters wave flags and hold placards as they march through London , during a National Day of Action for Palestine on September 7 , 2024 . ( Getty Images ) <p> Community leaders and one of the country 's most senior barristers have urged the police to move a major Gaza march away from a London synagogue amid concerns that the Met is failing to protect Jewish life in the city . <p> The Palestine Solidarity Campaign ( PSC ) -organised rally on January 18 -- a Shabbat -- is planned to begin at the BBC headquarters in Portland Place , just 500 metres from Central Synagogue . <p> The shul 's Rabbi Lerer told the JC that the Gaza protests had been damaging his synagogue 's ability to function , with events cancelled and congregants being intimidated on their way to worship . <p> He said that had reported to the police hearing chants for " genocide of Jews " from his synagogue , but that the information had been met with a " shrug " . <p> Protesters gather for a ' Stop The War Coalition ' demonstration against Israeli strikes on Gaza and Lebanon on October 5 , 2024 in London . ( Getty Images ) <p> Previous marches sanctioned by the police have affected other London synagogues , including Western Marble Arch and Westminster , disrupting their services and forcing Jews to stay away . <p> Rabbis and congregants told the JC about police cordons protecting shul entrances from baying protesters and of the difficulty in " doing Judaism " on march days . <p> The Chief Rabbi , Sir Ephraim Mirvis , said this was a " critical moment " for the Met to demonstrate its commitment to protecting the community , having recently criticised the force for failing in its duty to ensure Jewish Londoners feel safe when attending shul . <p> However , one source who has advised activists in their police negotiations said that previous legal victories by litigious protest groups had cowed the police from taking a more robust stance when dealing with the marches . <p> In 2019 , Extinction Rebellion won a High Court challenge against the Met after the force banned its London protests , leading to hundreds of protesters being able to claim compensation for wrongful imprisonment . <p> This view of the police was reinforced by comments from senior barrister Lord Pannick KC , who said : " That the marches should not be forming up near or passing near synagogues is clearly a power the police have the ability to impose via conditions under the Public Order Act . <p> " The impact on the synagogues of the marches in the past 14 months has plainly been ' serious disruption ' ( the legal test ) , on individual march days and cumulatively , " he said . <p> Lord Pannick said that he was one of a number of lawyers and community leaders deeply concerned about the Met 's approach to the protests which , he said , often mean congregants are forced to hear activists shouting " hostility to Israel , and indeed sometimes their support for Hamas and for Hezbollah " while walking to shul . <p> A protester wears a " Free Palestine " face mask as people gather for a ' Stop The War Coalition ' demonstration against Israeli strikes on Gaza and Lebanon on October 5 , 2024 in London . ( Getty Images ) <p> The leading lawyer said moving the march would not be " a significant curtailment " on the participants ' rights to freedom of expression and assembly . <p> " If the police are serious about in their desire to reduce the impact of these protests on the Jewish community , then imposing conditions to ensure that marches neither start nor pass near synagogues is a power they should indeed employ . " <p> Now , leading figures in the Jewish community are calling for the Met to ban two of the protest 's seven formation points , one near the BBC headquarters at Portland Place and the other on Park Lane , which are near to London shuls . <p> Rabbi Lerer of Central Synagogue said that he has had to move the timing of Shabbat services back by an hour twice since the Gaza protests began after October 7 . <p> Central Synagogue , Great Portland Street <p> On a march on May 18 , Shabbat services at Central were interrupted by protesters as they disembarked a train at Great Portland Street station . " We could hear people chanting ' From the river to the sea , Palestine will be free ' while we were praying , " Rabbi Lerer said . <p> " Communities are not able to function in the way that they have been for 150-plus years because of this . " <p> He said the marches could be moved to a Sunday , when the synagogue is holding a much smaller service . <p> " But to do it on the Jewish Sabbath , it 's preposterous . " <p> He said the racism faced by Jews was not perceived as seriously as the hate encountered by other communities and dubbed Prime Minister Keir Starmer " two-tier Keir " in his handling of the situation . <p> " No other minority would be suffering this long , consistently . It 's double standards when it comes to antisemitism versus other forms of racism . You can imagine if these were happening on a Friday , past a mosque , or imagine if there was a group of bigoted people who were anti-gay walking past a pride festival . It just would n't happen . " <p> Lloyd Keisner , the chairman at Central Synagogue , said that the shul experiences an " immediate drop off " in the number of people attending their events when a protest is announced to take place on Shabbat . <p> " Because we 're an observant congregation , many of our members ca n't carry mobile phones on Shabbat , which means that they have no way of knowing in real time if they 're walking directly into the path of these marchers when attending or leaving the shul . <p> " There 's a great chance we 're walking straight into marches at Portland Place . And we are suited and booted coming out of synagogue . <p> " We 're probably not the most difficult group of people to pick out . But why should we have that anxiety ? <p> " We 've got a lot of elderly members and we 've got quite a few members with young children , so we feel the impact all the time , and we feel we 're in the firing line with nobody doing anything about it . <p> " I think the Metropolitan Police are saying everything that we would like to hear . Plenty of platitudes , but no action . Because if there was action , this march on the 18th of January , which we 're dreading , would n't happen . And certainly would n't happen in any proximity of our synagogue . " <p> Rabbi Epstein of Western Marble Arch told the JC that on many occasions since October 7 , pro-Palestine protesters had congregated at Marble Arch station , even though the official start-up point is at the Hilton , leading to severe disruption for congregants travelling to the shul for the Shabbat service . <p> The Western Marble Arch Synagogue at 1 Wallenberg Place <p> One congregant of the synagogue , who preferred to stay anonymous , told the JC that he no longer attends the Shabbat service for fear of the protests . On one occasion , he had to request for the police to escort him past the march . <p> " On days when marches occur , I am unable to attend synagogue services leaving me with no accessible place of worship on these days . The atmosphere during these marches has felt hostile and violent , creating an environment that I do not want myself or my children to be exposed to . These repeated regular marches cause significant anxiety for us as a family . " <p> Rabbi Epstein told the JC that while there 's a " general sense of discomfort across the Anglo-Jewry " , there 's an " absolutely specific , genuine fear " for his congregants , because the marches are happening " literally right on our doorstep " . <p> The upshot , he said , is that fewer people come to his shul because of the fear of running into the activists , and that the community was suffering as a result almost more than during Covid . " There are genuinely people who do not come to synagogue . They 're not really coming out on a Shabbat . " <p> He said the protests are " depleting the entire fabric of community experience in the West End " , because Jewish Londoners who previously walked to and from services from their homes in Marylebone , Belgravia , Fitzrovia , Hyde Park , Kensington and Chelsea are no longer attending . <p> " If you do n't get a Shabbat morning and it 's one of the more religious areas , you 'll find there 's a lot of Judaism happening around and about all the way through the week . But in places like here in central London , especially for tourists , the main event is Shabbat morning . That 's when we do our Judaism . " <p> Rabbi Epstein is also in correspondence with Jewish tourists weekly , who write to him and ask for advice on whether " they can or ca n't cover their heads , whether they should or should n't come to shul " . <p> He told the JC that he wrote to a Met Gold Commander in July , asking for a meeting with his own lawyers , but the force initially refused to meet him if he had legal representatives . <p> He intended to present two legal arguments to the Met , one about religious freedom under Article 9 , and another about section 14 of the Public Order Act 1986 , which gives the police the authority to impose conditions on protests . <p> He told the JC that he felt the police was not penalising protesters for violating the conditions set on the marches , which dictate that activists should keep to a specific route . " So , if the route starts halfway down Park Lane , it goes off towards Piccadilly , and you start screaming and shouting at Marble Arch station , it 's an arrestable offence . And why the police were n't enforcing those real violations is what we were really upset about . " <p> He said that the form-up location on Park Lane should be banned , because obviously activists will congregate at Marble Arch station , leading to collisions between protesters and congregants . Instead , the march should be moved to a Sunday , or another part of London , or even just near to Green Park station . <p> On another march on August 3 , anti-Israel protesters set up stalls around Marble Arch station , outside of the designated route , meaning congregants could not escape the marchers while travelling to shul . <p> Rabbi Epstein was one of the rabbis of other central London synagogues who signed a private letter addressed to Matt Twist , the assistant commissioner of the Met , in September as a " desperate plea for assistance " . He had a productive meeting with Twist afterwards and subsequently invited him for Yom Kippur services at the shul , but little has changed since the talks . <p> He had a long phone call with the force in November , who promised him that " we have done everything we need to ensure your safety " , but a march on the 30th of that month showed that nothing had changed . Hundreds of people got off the bus at the southern side of Marble Arch roundabout and began marching with speakers to the start-location , disrupting congregants on their way to shul . <p> He said the Met had " ample time " to not sanction the forthcoming march on January 18 , which will begin outside Portland Place . <p> Speaking to the JC , Chief Rabbi Sir Ephraim Mirvis said : " This is a critical moment for the Metropolitan Police to demonstrate their commitment to protecting everyone , and not just those with the loudest voices . <p> " Our Jewish community is entitled to a clear assurance that the routes of pro-Palestinian marches will be kept at a safe distance from nearby synagogues . There is overwhelming evidence that synagogues have been affected by these marches in the past , and that they will be again unless the routes are changed . " <p> Lord Leigh , who attends Westminster Synagogue , said pro-Palestine activists recently stood chanting " From the river to the sea " for seven minutes outside the shul , leading to it cancel its " Shabbat Lunch and Learn " . <p> " We had to have a cordon of police protection . In my opinion this can not be right , " he said . <p> Jeremy Dein , a barrister specialising in criminal law , said : " It is difficult to see how those who genuinely wish to protest peacefully would in turn desire to disrupt the Jewish Sabbath by marching in the vicinity of synagogues on a Saturday . Such behaviour is manifestly intimidating and provocative . Stubborn refusal to desist should be met by police intervention . " <p> A spokesperson for the Board of Deputies told the JC : " We are actively engaging with both the police and the government on this issue , and continue to make the point that the two of the seven routes through the centre of London pass in close proximity to synagogues and should not be used -- and certainly not during service times . <p> " One significant obstruction is that currently every single anti-Israel march through the centre of London is treated as an entirely new event , rather than as they should be -- a cumulative series of rallies organised by the same groups , with the same disruptive aims . We will be working with government and police to seek to strengthen provisions around cumulative impact going forward . " <p> Community Security Trust chief executive Mark Gardner said : " We have repeatedly stated that these protests should be kept away from synagogues , especially on the Sabbath . Their chutzpah is unmatched , exploiting freedoms that they deny to others . Above all , they hate anyone suspected of backing Israel . " <p> Protesters gather to march in support of Gaza on March 9 , 2024 in London . ( Getty Images ) <p> Speaking to the JC , the Jewish Leadership Council said it was calling on the Met to move the start location on January 18 , " ensuring the freedom to protest does not infringe on the rights of the Jewish community " . <p> A Met Police spokesperson said : " We know the cumulative impact of more than a year of regular protest on London 's Jewish communities has been significant . <p> " Over the last year we 've listened to the concerns of our communities and as a result we have been able to use our powers more extensively than ever before to impose conditions on planned protest . <p> " The Met has not yet finalised the policing plan for a PSC event on Saturday , January 18 . No route has been agreed as we are working to address concerns raised by the Jewish community . <p> " We are constantly working to balance the rights of the public to go about their lives without serious disruption and the right to lawful demonstration . When we have heard from all those potentially impacted by the march on January 18 , and explored options with the PSC , we will announce any new conditions . "
