<p> Two and a half years into the Kremlin 's brutal invasion of Ukraine , Kyiv took the fight to Russian President Vladimir Putin 's doorstep . Dozens of drones were shot down over Moscow and its outskirts as well as other regions of Russia in a massive overnight assault that the Kremlin blamed on Ukraine . <p> It was Europe 's worst nightmare writ large : One of Europe 's most senior politicians recounted that Donald Trump had privately warned the EU that America would not come to the bloc 's aid if it was attacked militarily . The U.S. " will never come to help you and to support you , " Trump told European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen in 2020 , according to then-Commissioner Thierry Breton . <p> When former Fox News host and conservative pundit Tucker Carlson announced he was sitting down for an interview with Putin , few expected it to be hard-hitting journalism . And they were right . But we still watched it so you did n't have to . <p> Over the summer , Madrid unveiled a plan to stop children watching adult content : a digital wallet that forces would-be viewers to verify their age . Once their age is confirmed , they 'd receive 30 generated " porn credits " with a one-month validity granting them access to adult content ... though enthusiasts can request extra credits . <p> The system is voluntary -- and we 're guessing it has n't been going like hotcakes . <p> Amid Israel 's ongoing offensive in Gaza , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu sat down with Paul Ronzheimer , deputy editor-in-chief of BILD and a senior journalist reporting for POLITICO parent company Axel Springer , to insist he would do whatever it takes to prevent another terror attack like the Oct. 7 Hamas raid . <p> " We 'll go there , " Netanyahu said , referring to the Palestinian city of Rafah , which U.S. President Joe Biden had warned the Israeli military not to invade . <p> With Europe reeling from Trump 's U.S. election victory , POLITICO 's crack team of Pro reporters got to work explaining how his second term would impact a dozen areas of EU policy , from cybersecurity to sustainability . <p> In 2018 , Austrian police raided the country 's spy service . POLITICO spoke to officials about how that dramatic day , which shattered Austria 's reputation in the intelligence world and led to the agency 's closure , may have been part of a Kremlin plot . <p> Amid increasingly grim warnings that Kyiv was struggling on the battlefield in the spring of 2024 , POLITICO spoke to high-ranking Ukrainian military officers about the country 's struggles to stop Russia 's advance . <p> Researchers have estimated that about 17,000 people in six countries -- France , Belgium , Italy , Spain , Turkey and the U.S. -- may have died as a result of taking the anti-malaria drug hydroxychloroquine to treat Covid infection after Donald Trump touted it as a " miracle cure . " <p> For even the keenest political observers , Emmanuel Macron is a riddle wrapped in a mystery inside a sharply tailored suit ( or sometimes a hoodie ) . POLITICO accompanied Macron and his entourage to China and sat down with him for two interviews in an attempt to decipher the French leader 's personality . <p> Running low on both ammunition and morale , a support-starved Kyiv appeared on the brink of the unthinkable this spring : losing the war to Russia . POLITICO spoke to top-ranking Ukrainian officials about Kyiv 's dire straits . <p> Vladimir Putin 's threats to station troops all along the 1,300-kilometer-long border with new NATO member Finland were empty , this POLITICO column argued -- because Moscow simply does n't have the numbers for that . <p> Republican vice-presidential candidate JD Vance 's statements on abortion and " childless cat ladies " could have made him a liability as a running mate . But they ended up proving there 's no such thing as a liability in Team Trump . <p> Drumroll please : POLITICO 's most-read story of 2024 was ... our article mapping the results of the British election . <p> With Labor ending 14 years of Tory rule , right-wing populist party Reform UK surging and Liz Truss losing her seat , there was a lot to sift through , and it was all artfully displayed in this piece ( if we do say so ourselves ) .
