<p> Jimmy Carter , the 39th President of the United States , who has died aged 100 , took up office in 1977 as the white knight pledged to bring a fresh , outsider approach to Washington politics ; he departed at the beginning of 1981 defeated at the polls and excoriated as a weak and inept leader . <p> It was a sad ending for a president who believed that he had been elected to do the Lord 's work , and who had brought high intelligence , inexhaustible energy and fanatical dedication to the task . His troubles were certainly attributable in part to bad luck ; but it was his ideals , rather than his ill fortune , that prevented him from being an effective president . <p> In foreign affairs , for instance , Carter had made a point , in his campaigns , of denouncing the selfish realpolitik of Richard Nixon 's and Gerald Ford 's administrations . He promised to cut the waste in the defence budget , achieve detente with the Soviet Union , tackle world poverty and control nuclear arms . <p> He also declared his intention of putting human rights at the heart of his foreign policy -- though this was bound to sour his hope of improved relations with Leonid Brezhnev 's Russia . <p> This dilemma was accentuated by the division between Carter 's Secretary of State , Cyrus Vance , and his national security adviser , Zbigniew Brzezinski . <p> Whereas Vance believed that beneath the geriatric leadership in the Kremlin , there were Soviet officials anxious for detente , Brzezinski took the view that the only way to defeat the Russians was to maintain relentless pressure on them . <p> Carter , who had little experience in foreign affairs , thus failed to give consistent signals . On the one hand he pardoned Vietnam draft dodgers and stopped the development of the B-1 bomber ; on the other he approved further work on the neutron bomb . However arguable his case on any particular issue , he succeeded in offending both hawks and doves . <p> Yet in 1978 Carter scored a notable success by brokering an agreement between Israel and Egypt . The achievement derived from his meeting with President Sadat of Egypt in April 1977 when , as Carter put it , " a shining light burst on the Middle East scene for me . " <p> Three months later , in July 1977 , Carter professed himself hardly less impressed by Menachem Begin -- " a very good man " . That November Sadat made a dramatic visit to Israel . Begin , though , became increasingly intransigent , and it was only Carter 's decision to invite him and Sadat to Camp David in September 1978 that kept hopes of a settlement alive . <p> Carter 's triumph was to keep Sadat and Begin together during 13 days of intense argument . Eventually Begin agreed to withdraw from Sinai , but made no commitment about the West Bank or Gaza , or about the question of a homeland for the Palestinians . Sadat , for his part , recognised the existence of the state of Israel . <p> The Camp David Accords , and the Treaty signed in Washington in March 1979 , were far from the comprehensive peace settlement for which Carter had hoped . But after 30 years of hostility between Israel and Arab countries , any measure of detente was to be welcomed . <p> There were other successes in Carter 's foreign policy , not least his solution to the contentious problem of Panama , which had been a thorn in America 's side since the riots of 1964 had threatened to close down the Canal . By September 1977 Carter had negotiated two treaties , whereby the Canal would be jointly operated by the US and Panama until the end of the century , and thereafter controlled by Panama alone . <p> It was a generous settlement , buttressed with safeguards which gave the US the right to defend the Canal against external attack , and guaranteed passage for its ships in an emergency . But Carter faced a titanic struggle to get the treaties through Congress . Not until the spring of 1978 were they approved by the Senate , and not until the summer of 1979 were measures to ratify them implemented by the House of Representatives . <p> Meanwhile Brzezinski was striving for rapprochement with China , to the alarm of Vance , who feared that it might undermine his attempts to negotiate an arms limitation treaty with the Soviet Union . At the end of 1978 , the United States bestowed official recognition upon China . <p> Notwithstanding his worries , Vance did sign a Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty ( Salt II ) in June 1979 . It was a very good treaty from the point of view of the US , setting a ceiling for strategic nuclear missiles while requiring Moscow to dismantle 270 launchers and allowing the US to bring 190 more into service . <p> But Carter gained little credit . " President Carter and his supporters in the Congress seem like Santa Claus , " Ronald Reagan remonstrated . " They have given the Panama Canal away , abandoned Taiwan to the Red Chinese , and they are negotiating a Salt II Treaty that could very well make us Number Two . " The Salt agreement was never ratified by the Senate . <p> Jimmy Carter and his family in 1976 Credit : UPPA/PHOTOSHOT <p> Carter 's difficulties in foreign policy were the more serious because the $66 billion deficit he had inherited from President Ford 's administration left him limited opportunities to enact the social legislation he had promised . And although siren voices in the Democratic Party urged him to spend his way into popularity , he proved a conservative economist , determined to cut the deficit and contain inflation no matter how badly he offended the party 's natural constituency . <p> Carter also made brave attempts to tackle the problem of energy consumption . When he became president the United States was importing 50 per cent of its oil , which left the economy vulnerable to events beyond the government 's control -- as in 1973 , when Opec had quadrupled the price of oil . For Carter , the fight to moderate the domestic demand for oil was not merely a vital part of the fight against inflation but also essential to America 's independence . <p> On taking office he established a Department of Energy . But it was one thing to lay out a national energy policy , quite another to force a practical programme through Congress . As Carter somewhat naively noted in June 1977 : " The influence of the special-interest lobbies is almost unbelievable , particularly from the automobile and oil industries . " <p> By dint of a mammoth struggle , various measures of oil conservation were passed by Congress in October 1978 . Penalties were introduced to discourage the manufacture of petrol-guzzling cars ; the pricing policies of electricity companies were remodelled to discourage waste ; tax incentives aimed at stimulating coal production and solar energy . <p> Most Americans remained unconvinced that there was any need for this legislation . But there was something in Carter that relished the fight of righteousness against the forces of Mammon . <p> " Carter 's got this Baptist inclination not to do anything that will help him politically , " his frustrated vice-president , Walter Mondale , remarked , " he thought politics was sinful . " The President had " the coldest political nose " that Mondale had ever encountered : " The worst thing you could say to Carter if you wanted something was that it was politically the best thing to do . " <p> It was certainly true that Carter had neither the stomach nor the talent for the kind of horse-trading required in his dealings with Congress . " I owe the special interests nothing , " he loftily declared , " I owe the people everything . " It did not help , though , to make Congressmen feel like squalid vote-grubbers . " He had a holier-than-thou attitude , " complained one of them . " And no one likes to be the thou that someone else is holier than . " <p> Surrounded by his entourage from Georgia , Carter lacked the Washington contacts that might have made up for his lack of political nous . And though no one ever questioned his energy or determination -- " Iron Ass Jimmy " , Mondale called him -- he was always rather a manager than a leader . When he could have been out stumping the country in favour of his policies he preferred to remain in the White House poring over memos . He instinctively preferred numbers and figures to passion or eloquence . <p> No detail was beneath his attention . It was said that he kept a keen eye on who was using the White House tennis court . A hostile journalist described him as " foundering in hyperactivity " . <p> Carter wanted to convey an image of ordinariness and frugality . Eager to end what he called the Imperial Presidency , in his first months he would not even allow the band to play Hail to the Chief . The White House thermostats were virtuously turned down ; drinking spirits was banned at receptions ; the presidential yacht was sold ; the vast Nixonian limousine put in mothballs . There was much emphasis on family life . <p> Carter and the Shah of Iran talk in the Oval Office during his state visit in November 1977 Credit : Everett/REX Shutterstock <p> The American public , however , appeared neither impressed nor inspired , and by 1979 Carter was seriously unpopular . The breakdown of order in Iran in late 1978 , leading to the flight of the Shah in January 1979 , reduced oil supplies , so that by May there were queues as long as 500 cars at petrol pumps in California . Inflation was already running at 14 per cent during the first three months of 1979 ; and in May Congress summarily dismissed Carter 's plan for petrol rationing . <p> The lack of a political base , which had worked in Carter 's favour during the election , now made him all the more vulnerable . Polls showed that Senator Edward Kennedy , who seemed increasingly likely to attempt to oust Carter from the Democratic ticket in 1980 , was leading him by a margin of three to one in the opinion polls . <p> Carter attempted to rally support in a television address to the nation in July 1979 , calling for " a rebirth of the American spirit " and insisting on his determination to confront the energy crisis . " Beginning from this moment , " he declared , " this nation will never use more foreign oil than it did in 1977 . " <p> The Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher in December 1979 at the arrival ceremonies in her honour at the White House with President Carter and the First Lady Rosalynn Carter Credit : REX/Shutterstock <p> But the immediate upturn in his popularity was lost when he sacked several members of his Cabinet in what was interpreted as a panic move . By the end of July a poll showed Carter 's rating at only 25 per cent , lower even than Nixon 's on the day he resigned . <p> His presidency was temporarily restored , but ultimately ruined , by two crises in foreign affairs which engulfed his administration in the latter part of 1979 . Carter had long worried about what would happen if the American diplomats in Iran were taken hostage , and it was only with the utmost reluctance that in October 1979 he risked provoking the Ayatollah Khomeini 's regime by allowing the Shah to enter the United States for medical treatment . Twelve days later , on November 4 , a mob seized 63 Americans from the embassy in Tehran . <p> On November 7 Ted Kennedy announced that he was standing for the presidency . But though the sight of mobs in Tehran burning the Stars and Stripes , chanting anti-American slogans and parading their hostages , produced a savage reaction in the United States , and at first Americans rallied to Carter as the national leader . Carter , for his part , demanded an increase in defence expenditure from Congress . <p> Then on Christmas Day 1979 Soviet troops invaded Afghanistan . Carter recalled the US ambassador from Moscow , rallied world opinion against the Russians , banned American athletes from taking part in the summer Olympics in Moscow and imposed an embargo on selling grain to Russia . <p> The President had suddenly emerged as a man of action . Claiming that he was too absorbed with the national crisis to devote time to campaigning ( while at the same time assiduously involving himself in the primaries on the telephone ) , he comfortably saw off Kennedy in a succession of primary elections . <p> Though he subsequently lost the contest in New York -- having antagonised Jewish voters just before the poll by denying Israeli sovereignty over Jerusalem -- by June he had the Democratic nomination sewn up . <p> A news conference in the East Room of the White House during the Iran hostage crisis , April 1980 Credit : Dennis Cook/AP Photo <p> The hostage crisis , however , remained unresolved . In April 1980 Carter had authorised a rescue attempt , only to abort it when a helicopter collided with a transport plane in the desert , killing eight servicemen . Meanwhile , he had honourably refused to overheat the sluggish economy for election purposes , even introducing budget cuts in March . <p> The renewed sense of Carter 's impotence was reinforced by pictures of him collapsing when taking part in a long-distance running race . Nor did it help when he quoted his young daughter Amy 's opinion that the atomic bomb was the most important issue in the election . <p> Yet as late as October 1980 it seemed that Carter had an evens chance of winning another term . But in a television debate with Ronald Reagan a week before the poll , he had no effective answer to the questions his opponent put : " Are you better off than you were four years ago ? Is America as respected throughout the world as it was ? " <p> The final straw for Carter was the collapse of a last-minute hope for the hostages ' release . On election day he carried only six states , gaining 41 per cent of the popular vote to Reagan 's 50.7 . He laboured to the last to free the hostages , but it was not until a few minutes after Reagan 's inauguration that they left Iran . <p> Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter Credit : REX FEATURES <p> James Earl Carter was born on October 1 1924 at Plains , Georgia , about 100 miles south of Atlanta . His father was a farmer ( growing cotton , peanuts , corn , water-melons and potatoes , and keeping pigs ) , and also a store-owner , landlord , church deacon and Sunday school teacher . <p> His mother ( n ? e Lillian Gordy ) , a teacher , adopted a more sceptical attitude towards religion , and devoted much of her time to helping black families -- even if , as she admitted , " none of my birth-control talk ever worked . " <p> The Carters had lived in Georgia since the 1780s , and in America even longer ; it was in 1637 that an ancestor called Thomas Carter had emigrated from England to Virginia . The Carters were a hard-living , hard-working , quarrelsome lot ; in three successive generations from the mid-19th century a Carter either killed or was killed in a dispute about property . <p> It was Jimmy Carter 's uncle Alton who took his family ( including his brother Earl ) to live near Plains , named after the place in the wilderness where Nebuchadnezzar had raised the golden idol which Shadrach , Meshach and Abednego had refused to worship . <p> Whereas the Carters were generally content to be farmers , Lillian Gordy , whom Earl Carter married in 1923 , was the daughter of a man who lived for politics . Jim Jack Gordy never stood for office , but he knew how to get others elected , and gained his reward from such appointments as deputy federal marshal . <p> When Jimmy Carter was three his parents moved outside Plains to a small clap-board house without electricity or running water . He grew up helping with all the farm work , pumping water , fishing for eels and cutting wood . Though as a child he mingled on familiar terms with the black workers on the estate , such easy familiarity did not survive into adolescence . <p> The boy soon began to show the eager , restless drive which would characterise his entire career . At five he was selling peanuts . At 11 he bought five bales of cotton , which he sold two years later , investing the proceeds in five tenements which brought him $16.50 per month . <p> Jimmy Carter aged seven in Plains , Georgia , 1932 Credit : AP Photo <p> He was always tight with money . But somehow he could never impress his father : " I do not remember his ever saying a single complimentary word to me , " he recalled . <p> At Plains High School Jimmy read hard and made a habit of collecting gold medals . " A person who wants to develop good mental habits , " he concluded , " should avoid the idle daydream , should give up worry and anger ; hatred and envy ; should neither fear no be ashamed of anything that is honest and purposeful . " <p> Inspired by an uncle in the navy , Carter conceived the ambition to enter the US Naval Academy at Annapolis . His father pulled strings with the local Congressman ; Jimmy prepared himself by studying at the Georgia Institute of Technology and by rigorous physical training . <p> He survived the tough first-year training at Annapolis , and showed his independence by refusing to sing the triumphalist Unionist song Marching Through Georgia . Later , he had plenty of free time , which he put to typically constructive effect , learning to fly and to dance , and picking up some Spanish . It was said that he had few enemies and few friends . <p> The nearest he came to naval action was cruising down the eastern coast of the US in an old battleship during the summer of 1944 , for which he received a combat ribbon . Since he was also in the Navy during the Korean conflict , he was able to say -- and did say -- that he had served in two world wars . <p> More significantly , on leave in Plains in 1945 Carter met a strong-willed local girl called Rosalynn Smith , whose family had been settled in the town since before the Civil War . But they had fallen on hard times , and after the death of Rosalynn 's father , a motor mechanic , she had been left in charge of the other children while her mother worked . She married Carter in July 1946 , after he had graduated 59th out of 820 from the Naval Academy . <p> Jimmy Carter and Rosalynn Smith on their wedding day Credit : REUTERS <p> Carter 's first naval posting was to Wyoming , an old battleship that had been converted into a laboratory for testing electronics and gunnery equipment . In 1948 he joined the submarine service , and went out to serve at Pearl Harbor in Hawaii . He did well , and was soon selected for the atomic engineering programme . <p> But in 1953 his father ( who had unexpectedly stood for the Georgia state legislature and been elected ) died ; and to Rosalynn 's dismay Carter gave up the Navy to return to Plains and run the family farm . " God did not intend me to spend my life on instruments of destruction to kill people , " he explained . <p> Carter was as successful with peanuts as he had been with nuclear submarines , and within a few years had the farm running at a healthy profit . By the late 1950s he had time on his hands , and began to turn his attention to local politics . <p> Asked in 1958 to join one of white citizens ' councils formed to prevent desegregation , he refused to pay the $5 entrance fee : " I 'll flush this money down the toilet before I give it to you . " But as a member of the Sumter County school education board he found himself unable to make progress in integrating education . <p> In 1962 Carter presented himself for the Democratic nomination for the Georgia State Senate , only to lose through blatant ballot-rigging . Ever tenacious , he had the election result set aside in the courts and went on to win his seat in the State Senate . <p> Georgia State Senator Jimmy Carter and his wife Rosalynn at his Atlanta campaign headquarters , September 1966 Credit : Horace Cort/AP Photo <p> The next stage , in 1966 , was to run for Congress . But when his Republican opponent withdrew from the contest in order to stand as Governor , Carter decided to challenge for that post . Despite feverish campaigning he lost the Democratic primary to an arch-segregationist called Lester Maddox . <p> The result left Carter profoundly depressed , unable to understand how God could have allowed him to lose to such a man . Inevitably , positive counsels prevailed ; the Lord had been testing his faith . Sceptics , however , began to complain that Carter took his initials too seriously . <p> When he ran again for governor in 1970 , his faith in the Lord was allied to a more prudent approach to racial issues , calculated to win him the support of the kind of Democrat who voted for Governor Wallace in Alabama . His declared aim was no longer to promote integration in Georgia 's schools , but " to return control of our schools to local people " . <p> In consequence he won the Democratic primary with only seven per cent of the black vote -- though it came back to him in the ensuing election . And once in the Governor 's mansion he soon regained his principles . " I say to you quite frankly , " he announced in his inaugural address , " the time for racial discrimination is over " . <p> Carter proceeded to increase the number of black people in Georgia 's public administration , and developed alliances with black leaders . He also encouraged the employment of women in state government offices . <p> Other reforms included the introduction of a merit system for cabinet and judicial appointments ; improved rehabilitation programmes for prisoners ; day-care centres for the mentally handicapped ; and clinics for drug abusers . Every department of the state government was required to justify every item of expenditure . <p> But within 18 months Carter 's thoughts were turning to national politics . At the Democratic National Convention in 1972 there was an attempt to have him adopted as George McGovern 's vice-presidential candidate . When that failed Carter immediately turned his attention to the possibilities of 1976 . <p> Elected chairman of the Democrats ' national campaign committee , he was able to build up an important network of contacts . In December 1974 , just before the end of his mandatory single term as Governor , Carter announced his intention of running for president . <p> His advisers planned a grass-roots campaign that would undercut the traditional Democratic power brokers . In the disillusioned post-Watergate atmosphere , he spoke about the importance of competence and trust , and tried to avoid being pinned down to specific commitments . " They wanted to put Carter on Mount Rushmore , " the joke went , " but they did n't have room for two more faces . " <p> But Carter 's strategy , and his tireless campaigning -- he entered 30 of the 31 primaries -- secured him the nomination as Democratic candidate . At that time the polls gave him a 33 per cent lead over President Ford . <p> An interview which Carter gave to Playboy -- " I 've looked on a lot of women with lust . I 've committed adultery in my heart many times " -- raised doubts about his judgment . As the campaign proceeded there were other gaffes , and his lead was soon whittled away . In the end it took some bad economic figures , and an extraordinary pronouncement by President Ford -- " there is no Soviet domination of Eastern Europe " -- to see Carter home . <p> The disappointments of Carter 's presidency in no way diminished his habit of running like a man possessed . On leaving the White House he addressed himself to his book Keeping Faith : Memoirs of a President , published in 1982 . He then turned his attention to the creation of the Carter Center , which emerged as a series of linked circular buildings in a park overlooking Atlanta . Inside was a library and a museum , with a replica of the Oval Office during Carter 's presidency . <p> President Carter jogging in 1978 Credit : REX FEATURES <p> But he never intended the Center to be merely a research institute . Rather it was conceived as a kind of Citizen 's White House , where Carter could continue to labour for world peace and improvement . The work which he sponsored in Africa greatly increased crop production and virtually eliminated guinea worm disease . <p> By the 1990s his availability for peace missions was well established . In 1994 , for instance , he negotiated the framework of an accord with President Kim Il Sung of North Korea , and acted as President Clinton 's representative in dealings with the junta in Haiti . He also visited Bosnia . <p> The next year he was earnestly striving to prevent Hutus and Tutsis from massacring each other , while in 1996 he was monitoring elections on the West Bank of the Jordan . Latterly he became a vocal critic of Israel 's treatment of the Palestinians . <p> There were those who derided these efforts as self-important , naive and dangerous . But Carter was regularly voted one of America 's most admired men ; and by the turn of the century Americans had even begun to take a favourable view of his presidency . In Plains he took his turn with the other citizens in cleaning the church , and taught in Sunday school . <p> Jimmy Carter with his grandson Hugo Wentzel in 2009 Credit : AFP/GETTY <p> In 2002 , Carter was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts through the Carter Center to find " peaceful solutions to international conflicts , to advance democracy and human rights , and to promote economic and social development " . <p> He published numerous books , some dealing with his global moral concerns and others personal , including : An Outdoor Journal ( 1988 ) ; Sources of Strength ( meditations on the Bible , 1997 ) ; The Virtues of Ageing ( 1998 ) ; Our Endangered Values : America 's Moral Crisis ( 2006 ) ; We Can Have Peace in the Holy Land : A Plan That Will Work ( 2009 ) ; White House Diary ( 2010 ) ; A Call to Action : Women , Religion , Violence , and Power ( 2014 ) ; and Faith : A Journey for All ( 2018 ) . <p> Among several later volumes of memoirs were Turning Point : A Candidate , a State and a Nation Come of Age ( an account of his first political campaign , 1992 ) , An Hour Before Daylight ( 2001 ) and A Full Life : Reflections at Ninety ( 2015 ) . A book of poems , Always a Reckoning ( 1995 ) , was generally well received . " The Washington Post was critical , " Carter joked , " but I could n't understand the language . " <p> In October 2019 Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter overtook George and Barbara Bush to become the longest-married presidential couple . Rosalynn predeceased him on November 19 2023 ; their daughter and three sons survive .
