<h> In a troubled world , Sir Keir Starmer 's right to roam <h> Faced with possibly the most challenging foreign policy agenda since the Cold War ended , the PM ca n't turn inwards <p> Tom Baldwin <p> Monday December 30 2024 , 9.00pm , The Times <p> A rare Westminster consensus has formed between jet-lagged political journalists and Downing Street 's even wearier political advisers about Sir Keir Starmer 's foreign travel . <p> Most seem to agree that , notwithstanding the prime minister 's much-needed family break this week , he has been spending too much time abroad . This latest piece of conventional wisdom holds that he should be focusing a lot more on fulfilling voters ' desire for down-to-earth change , which gave him such a stonkingly large parliamentary majority six months ago . <p> It 's why Starmer will start 2025 in " sleeves rolled-up " mode . Proposals for him to make a big foreign policy speech next month have been shelved and his new year video message to the nation tomorrow apparently contains no overt reference to the rest of the world . This will be followed by fresh announcements on cutting NHS waiting lists , one of the six " measurable milestones " unveiled this month on which he now wishes his " five missions " be judged -- all of which are determinedly domestic . <p> Certainly , Starmer 's globe-trotting since he entered Downing Street has been relentless , with tens of thousands of miles travelled across dozens of time zones to attend no fewer than eight summits , as well as seemingly endless bilateral meetings with leaders from nations big and small . At least one pollster has warned that the impression Starmer is always flying somewhere else has been mentioned , unfavourably , by some of Labour 's key voters in focus groups . <p> But no self-respecting prime minister can afford to ignore a turbulent and dangerous world right now . Israel 's brutal conflict in Gaza is having far-reaching consequences across the Middle East . Russia continues to grind deeper into Ukraine and America has elected a president who appears ready to take Europe 's security blanket away . Those wars have distracted from a terrible humanitarian crisis in Sudan and undermined efforts to reduce the impact of climate change , even as the prospect of a US-China trade war threatens the European economy and much else besides . <h> Advertisement <p> And while Starmer can not be expected to solve any of these problems by himself , he will neither retreat inwards and away from global challenges as the populist right would do , nor revert to the kind of posturing from the sidelines where the far left habitually resides . The best way to address the UK 's lack of influence around the world is surely to build it back up , piece by piece , with those who have it already . <p> In any case , the sheer scale of the world 's crises means that Starmer 's international itinerary is n't going to get less demanding any time soon . I 'm told that plans are being finalised for a trip to Washington for a formal White House meeting in January either around , or immediately after , Donald Trump 's second presidential inauguration , where they will doubtless have much to talk about . <p> That will be followed at the start of February by a European summit on Ukraine where Starmer may be asked to commit British troops in a peacekeeping mission alongside a " coalition of the willing " -- from which , the presumption is , the US would be a notable absentee . In spring there will be another summit in Brussels on structural changes to the Brexit deal where he hopes to deepen the security relationship with the EU , ease some trade and travel restrictions , as well as make it easier to sell billions of pounds worth of clean energy . <p> As ever , domestic political pressures will intrude . For instance , Britain may be willing to commit troops to Ukraine but whether it will be able to do so depends on both the strategic defence review being published over the next few months and the Treasury finding money for increased military spending at the cost of more tax rises or cuts elsewhere . At the same time , Labour 's post-Brexit neuralgia means there will be no return to the single market or the customs union , while even the EU 's desire for a " youth mobility scheme " appears to be beyond the government 's pale . <h> Advertisement <p> But Starmer has always insisted that delivery at home depends on progress abroad . For instance , if you 're worried about unsustainable levels of migration , you really should be bothered about wars in the Middle East or the climate change that have driven it . And , for all the talk of the budget squeezing out growth , that 's nothing compared to what a combination of Brexit , the pandemic and an energy crisis triggered by Russia 's invasion of Ukraine have done to the UK economy . <p> On the plus side , seasoned diplomats travelling with Starmer or David Lammy , the foreign secretary , say they are struck by the warmth and relief with which they have been greeted . If the PM is not the world 's most charismatic leader , he 's at least recognised as one who is serious and properly engaged , which elevates him above most of his immediate predecessors in Downing Street . <p> But for all the feelings of goodwill towards Britain , tangible results from this new global outreach are limited . The most notable achievement so far seems to be a deal to hand over sovereignty of the Chagos Islands that 's still generating more controversy than it probably deserves . While Downing Street points out that efforts to tackle people-trafficking gangs will be helped by a new agreement with Germany to target warehouses where boats are stored or the European co -- operation that resulted in the arrest of a smuggling kingpin in the Netherlands , aides privately acknowledge this is not going to be transformative . <p> Here a familiar criticism of Starmer looms back into view . After six months in charge there are complaints that we still do n't know the answer to basic questions . Will he lean towards closer alignment with the EU or with the US ? Does his lifelong commitment to human rights and international law find realpolitik limits when it comes to China and Israel ? How far will he really go to defend Ukraine ? This is not , say critics , like the big vision of Margaret Thatcher in the Cold War or of Tony Blair when he was preaching his doctrine of liberal interventionism . <h> Advertisement <p> To which the best answer is that there is no simple narrative that can explain this turbulent world . As Starmer said earlier this month , he does not intend to make a dangerous choice between America and Europe when " the national interest demands that we work with both " . Indeed , maybe this is an era in which ambiguity can provide the shade we need from ideas that glitter rather than shine . <p> Instead of being presented with a leader who 's obsessed with delivering his domestic " milestones " , we should perhaps accept Starmer for what he is -- and as he has , largely , been seen abroad . The prime minister can yet come to embody the good sense , moderation and decency that were once associated with our country , an internationalist Britain that has been sorely missed on the world stage in recent years . <p> Who knows , voters back at home might then even feel a flicker of patriotic pride the next time they see him stepping into an aeroplane .
