<h> LATEST EDITORIAL <h> Editorial : Reform 's growing membership can only be countered at the grassroots <p> Reform UK leader Nigel Farage holds up a banner during a protest by farmers in Westminster , London , over the changes to inheritance tax ( IHT ) rules in the recent budget with introduce new taxes on farms worth more than ? 1 million , December 11 , 2024 <p> Whether Farage is right that his party now has a larger membership than the Tories is of secondary importance . Reform UK is certainly growing fast , and Farage -- cosseted and amplified by important sections of the media as always -- can present himself as the most dynamic actor in British politics . <p> Reform UK claims to have exceeded 130,000 members on Boxing Day . <p> Membership of political parties in Britain has been declining for decades . There are two relatively recent examples of parties bucking the trend . <p> The Scottish National Party saw an extraordinary surge following the 2014 independence referendum , at one point almost doubling in size in a week . At its peak its 125,000 members made it the most truly mass party in Britain , given these were all by definition in Scotland , which has less than 10 per cent of the British population . Since 2019 it has seen a steep fall in membership . <p> And the Labour Party enjoyed a huge increase in size in the early years of Jeremy Corbyn 's leadership , briefly becoming a visible campaigning presence in hundreds of constituencies outside the usual election windows . <p> The focus on community mobilisation faded after the 2017 election , partly because the party prioritised a parliamentary strategy in the hung parliament that election produced and partly because of the right 's success in bogging down constituency parties in sectarian infighting . After becoming leader Keir Starmer abolished the community organising department entirely . <p> Labour has seen its membership decline precipitously since , a process which its leaders have openly welcomed as active socialists are driven out and the party made a more pliant instrument of the Establishment . <p> Both the SNP and Labour saw dramatic growth when they captured a zeitgeist . A majority of Scottish voters opposed independence in 2014 , but the separatist cause won more support than expected and suddenly looked like a plausible vehicle for rupture with the status quo . <p> Corbyn 's Labour , too , for some years expressed the hopes of millions that real change was possible . Reform UK is nowhere near as large as Labour or , adjusted for Scotland 's size , the SNP during these periods , but we would be foolish to ignore the fact it currently has the political momentum . <p> Doubly so because Labour has deliberately cut itself off from the sort of grassroots politics which might counter it . <p> Labour is deeply unpopular : a Sunday Times " megapoll " at the weekend found it would lose nearly 200 seats were an election held today , haemorrhaging them to the Tories , Reform and the SNP ( as well as independents : the poll found Corbyn and the " Gaza independents " would keep their seats , and more would be elected ) . <p> Reform have proved shrewd at seizing on Labour 's policy mistakes : despite Farage 's commitment to tax-cutting , service-privatising Thatcherism , the party organises protests against cuts to winter fuel payments , has attracted support from some Waspi women campaigners following Labour 's betrayal of that cause and has even called for the nationalisation of Thames Water . <p> But its main appeal lies in the idea , however mendacious , that it represents ordinary people and not the same old Establishment insiders . <p> A mass membership Labour Party , with committed local activists forming a year-round community presence , could meet this challenge , unmask the contradictions in Reform 's offer and get a hearing when arguing against the far right . <p> That is the Labour Party Starmer has deliberately destroyed . Labour now is so contemptuous of its members and its own conference decisions it can not plausibly claim to be rooted in communities at all . <p> Organising against Reform UK must happen everywhere , and will need to involve Labour members as well as trade unions and the whole of the left . <p> But it needs to happen at the grassroots -- which means it must reject identification with either the policies or practices of Labour as it governs today .
