<h> New visa process for all tourists visiting Israel starts on January 1 <p> The UK government has lifted travel restrictions to Israel ( Image : Getty ) <p> A new digital entry procedure for visitors to Israel from visa-exempt countries will take effect on Jan. 1 , the Interior Ministry said on Monday . <p> The Electronic Travel Authorization ( ETA-IL ) requirement , which was originally due to go into effect on Aug. 1 and has been undergoing a pilot test for the last year , will be fully implemented starting on Wednesday -- even as the war has caused most tourists to stay away -- according to Israel 's Population and Immigration Authority . <p> The new process entails visitors , unless they already have an Israeli visa , filling out an online form for entry approval before departure for Israel , at least 72 hours before their arrival . <p> The ETA-IL , similar to the US ESTA process is valid for two years or until the passport expires ( whichever comes first ) . It is valid for up to 90 days during one visit . For a longer stay , an application must be submitted to the Population and Immigration Authority . <p> The application , which will cost about ? 5 or 25 shekels , is intended to simplify the entry process so that visitors can swipe their passports at Ben-Gurion International Airport upon arrival , as holders of Israeli biometric passports already do . <p> " The procedure will enable the authorities to review in advance the passenger data before boarding the plane , " the Population and Immigration Authority said . " If an obstacle is found for any reason , the passenger will be referred to the Israeli embassy in his country for further review . " <p> The digitised method of entry is intended to improve security and passenger service at airport immigration , the government body said . <p> The US , UK , Canada and Australia all have similar digital systems in the place , and the E.U. is expected to launch one soon . <p> The timing of the previously announced rollout of the procedure had raised eyebrows among tourism officials . The war against Hamas in Gaza has led to a staggering 80% drop in tourism to Israel . Many foreign airlines that suspended flights to Tel Aviv after October 7 are currently limiting their operations in Israel , while others , including all US carriers , have yet to resume service .
