<h> MY ACCOUNT <h> The only war Donald Trump really wants to win <p> Trump will inject his own brand of chaos into an already chaotic international situation <p> December 31 , 2024 2:14 pm <p> Trump may want a deal with Russia to end the war in Ukraine , but that does not mean that he will offer terms acceptable to Russia or fully backed by the Pentagon , US State Department and the Ukraine government ( Photo : Brendan McDermid/Reuters ) <p> cancel **31;692;TOOLONG Share bookmark Save <p> share cancel **34;725;TOOLONG <p> The second Donald Trump presidency will differ crucially from the first because , from his first day in the White House , he must cope with escalating wars in the Middle East and Ukraine . Just how he intends to deal with them is being viewed with obsessive -- and sometimes horrified -- concern by governments across the world . <p> Vitally important questions must soon be answered . In the wake of the defeat of Iran 's allies in Gaza -- Lebanon and Syria -- by Israel backed by the US , will Israel and Washington now seek to use their new military dominance in the region to fight a war with Iran ? Powerful forces in Washington and Tel Aviv argue that never has the post-Shah Iranian government been more isolated and vulnerable . <p> This immediately raises another question : will Iranian leaders , effectively shorn of their regional allies , finally decide that they must build a nuclear device ? This little spoken-of option is on the cards to a far greater extent than ever before . <p> The Middle East is seeing the biggest change in the balance of power since the forced retreat of the colonial powers , notably the UK and France , from the region after 1945 . The Arab nation states -- Syria , Iraq , Libya , Egypt , Lebanon , Sudan , Yemen -- have all been neutered , broken up or destroyed . <p> Trump will inevitably play a decisive role in seeking to establish a new order in the Middle East . He will presumably give full backing to Israel , though here he will have difficulty in exceeding the slavish support for Israeli actions shown by Joe Biden and his team . <p> Trump will not want to be seen as feeble as Biden appeared by allowing himself to be pushed around , humiliated and ignored by Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu ( unless one accepts a more cynical explanation for US compliance with Israeli atrocities in Gaza and Lebanon , which holds that US calls for restraint and a ceasefire were simply a diplomatic smokescreen to allow Israel time to pursue all-out war ) . <p> The old ramshackle order in the Middle East has been capsized , but nobody knows what , if anything , will replace it . A Greater Israel , and , to a lesser extent , a Greater Turkey , will be the most prominent features in the new political landscape . <p> But tectonic convulsions have not ceased , so the future political geography of the region is still in a state of flux . The fate of millions of people remain in play . During his last administration , for instance , Trump suddenly gave Turkey a free hand in 2019 to attack the US-backed Syrian Kurds in north-east Syria . Turkish-backed Syrian militias have today started driving the Kurds out of Syria , west of the Euphrates . Will Trump allow them to ethnically cleanse the one to two million Kurds in this area ? Further south , will he allow Israel to push the 2.3 million Palestinians in Gaza into Egypt ? <p> Prior to the 2020 US presidential election , Biden sought with some success to portray Trump as the father of chaos in the world and argue that he , Biden , would put an end the reign of the great disruptor . But it was Biden himself who has shattered the status quo , either through incompetence or intent . <p> In the Middle East , he continued the Trump policies of no compromise with Iran and the marginalisation of the Palestinians in pursuit of a deal between Israel and Saudi Arabia . Past American presidents from Dwight Eisenhower to Barack Obama both supported and restrained Israel in its periodic assaults on the Palestinians and on its Arab neighbours . Biden broke with tradition by doing neither and Trump , going by his full-throated support for Israel in all things , is likely to do the same . <p> Predicting the actions of a character as mercurial as Trump is always chancy , but some of his habits of mind do not change . His actions between 2017 and 2021 suggest that he genuinely dislikes war . He claims , though this is contested by some , that he opposed the US invasion of Iraq in 2003 . He correctly boasts that he started no new wars during his first term , negotiating the US withdrawal from Afghanistan , and seeking to pull out the small , but strategically important , US military contingent from Syria . <p> This opposition to foreign wars and entanglements is shared by vice-president JD Vance and much of the MAGA Republican Party . They are all criticised by anti-Trumpers as " isolationists " , but a more accurate description would be " unilateralists " . <p> The consequences of going it alone can come as a nasty surprise to allies , as it did to Saudi Arabia in 2019 when Iran was transparently behind a devastating drone attack on Saudi oil facilities . Trump did nothing in response against Iran at the time , to the dismay of Riyadh . But six months later he ordered the assassination , by an American drone in Iraq , of Iran 's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps general , Qasem Soleimani , who had probably masterminded the attack . <p> Trump will inject his own brand of chaos into an already chaotic international situation . Biden 's brand of chaos had much to do with his mental deterioration that became increasingly pronounced soon after he took office , but was concealed by the White House staff . The extent of that deception was chillingly spelled out in detail in the Wall Street Journal on 19 December in a story with the headline : " How the White House Functioned with a Diminished Biden in Charge " . <h> Read Next <p> Going by interviews with nearly 50 people familiar with the operation to hide Biden 's mental decline , his contacts even with senior Democratic Party leaders was limited , questions and answers pre-scripted by his staff , and on days when he was too visibly incoherent , his meetings with anybody outside a small coterie of senior lieutenants were abruptly cancelled . This was happening as early as the disastrous retreat from Afghanistan in 2021 . <p> The report says that senior advisers " were often put into roles that some administration officials and lawmakers thought Biden should occupy " . He was not shown negative opinion poll data that might upset him . Amazingly , we do not know to this day the identity of who decided policy in his name , though it determined matters of life and death in Ukraine and the Middle East in the past few years . <p> With Trump back in office , the problem recurs , but in a different form . Trump is definitely in charge , but he is mercurial both by temperament and because of the diverse political forces acting on him . He may want a deal with Russia to end the war in Ukraine , but that does not mean that he will offer terms acceptable to Russia or fully backed by the Pentagon , US State Department and the Ukraine government , all of whom may impede , dilute or sabotage a deal before it can be implemented . <p> Another ingredient in the incoherence to come will be that the next Trump administration , like the last , will focus primarily on fighting its domestic enemies over issues like immigration . It is the nature of Trumpism to exacerbate friction . Trump may not start any new wars , but the big question is whether or not he can stop those already underway .
