<p> BRUSSELS ? In 2024 , you 'd be forgiven for feeling a distinct sense of d ? j ? vu . <p> Syria was back in the news , European leaders had to focus again on migration and , across the Atlantic , Donald Trump is preparing for his return to the White House , sending more shock waves through the political establishment in an unprecedented year of elections . <p> And , as our charts show , even all that could be overshadowed by the threat posed by a world getting hotter , which looms over humanity 's future . Despite a plethora of warnings from scientists and international organizations , countries are still failing to contain global warming -- and , if his rhetoric is to be believed , Trump 's second term could further weaken the international effort . <p> So this holiday season may not feel as jolly as it should . But as we hope for cheerier news in 2025 , POLITICO 's data journalism team is here to illustrate how the old year played out . <h> War , war and another war <p> With over 44,500 Palestinians dead and a further 105,000 estimated to be wounded , according to the Hamas-controlled Ministry of Health , the humanitarian cost of the Israel-Hamas war continues to rise . <p> Geospatial analysts estimate that almost 60 percent of buildings in the Gaza Strip had likely been damaged by November 2024 , meaning many of the 1.9 million internally displaced people there will have no home to return to . <p> The Israel-Hamas war increased hostilities across the region , with assassinations , bombings and missilebarrages spilling the Iran-Israel proxy conflict into the open . After almost a year of exchanging missile strikes , conflict between Israel and Hezbollah peaked in October , with Israel 's ground invasion in southern Lebanon , although attacks reduced significantly following a cease-fire agreement . <p> In neighboring Syria , the dramatic overthrow of Bashar Assad 's regime , swiftly followed by Israeli airstrikes on the country 's weapon stocks and the arrival of ground forces via the demilitarized zone , increased uncertainty in the region . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> At the other end of Europe , Russia 's war in Ukraine continues . Ukrainians chalked up some successes in 2024 , becoming a dominant force in the Black Sea despite the country 's tiny navy , and mounting a counteroffensive into Russia 's Kursk region in August . But they are ending this year on the back foot , having lost many of their territorial gains and having seen many of their soldiers killed . <p> But Russia 's constant pressing comes at a huge cost for its troops too , with the past few months being extraordinarily brutal . The Institute for the Study of War , a U.S. think tank , estimated there were 53 Russian casualties for every square kilometer of Ukrainian territory gained between September and November of 2024 . <h> Blockbuster election year <p> With votes in more than 60 countries including France , the U.K. , Bulgaria , India , Japan and the U.S. , as well as for the European Parliament , 2024 was a huge election year . As right-wing forces broadly consolidated their position firmly in the political mainstream , the polls themselves saw social media platforms like TikTok have ever greater influence and even shape campaigns . <p> Europe 's lurch to the right was on display in many of this year 's votes . In some countries , far-right parties rose to power ; in others , they gained a position to exert significant pressure on governments . <p> Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni 's right-wing European Conservatives and Reformists became EU power brokers after the June European Parliament election . French President Emmanuel Macron 's shock decision to call a snap election in the aftermath of the EU vote plunged the country into political chaos . <p> What was interesting is that the far right 's success in many of the votes called for an update to the stereotypical image of their voters being angry old men . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Instead , elections , exit polls and surveys in different parts of the bloc suggested young voters were increasingly throwing their support behind far-right parties . <p> A German youth survey showed the growing popularity of the Alternative for Germany party among the country 's youngest voters . <p> In December , Romania 's top court annulled a presidential election after ultranationalist underdog Calin Georgescu won the first round , citing evidence of widespread interference and a TikTok influence operation -- allegedly orchestrated from Russia . <p> And while TikTok did not give Europe 's far-right forces an outright victory in June 's European Parliament election , it did provide them with a huge platform to reach new voters . <h> Panic about migration like it 's 2015 <p> Wars and political instability in the EU 's neighborhood , coupled with a marked rightward shift in the political landscape , put migration firmly back on European leaders ' agenda . A surge in support for hard-right , anti-immigration parties in several European countries led governments to adopt increasingly restrictive policies . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Gone are the days of Europe 's open-door policy for Syrian refugees , epitomized by then-German Chancellor Angela Merkel 's slogan " We can do it ! " Securing Europe 's borders has become the No. 1 priority , and in some places the political debate has even started to include removing migrants from the EU 's territory entirely . <p> Brussels has been no exception to this reality . The European Commission , reconstituted on Dec. 1 under President Ursula von der Leyen ( who was confirmed by a right-leaning majority in the European Parliament ) , has already promised to get tough on migration . Policies once considered fringe and extreme , such as setting up " return hubs " and " hot spots " in third countries to hold asylum-seekers waiting for their claims to be processed , as well as forced deportations , are now firmly in the political mainstream . <p> Schengen -- the world 's largest free-travel area and a crown jewel of European integration -- is also falling victim to anti-immigration sentiment . Several countries including Germany have reintroduced temporary border controls within the zone , citing security risks , terrorism and migration as reasons for the renewed checks . These restrictions are supposed to be temporary , but some have been extended so many times that they have become nearly permanent . <h> And Europe 's problems do n't stop there ... <p> The EU has other concerns going into 2025 . With disappointing economic growth , issues with competitiveness and a struggling industrial sector , the last thing Europe needs right now is a trade war . <p> But that might be exactly what it gets . Trump 's threat of 10 percent tariffs on all goods and a whopping 60 percent on Chinese goods has Europeans scared of possible knock-on effects . It will be a struggle for the bloc to juggle a conflict between the U.S. , the EU 's largest trading partner , and China , its second-largest trading partner and largest source of imports . <h> ... or there <p> Putting tariff terror into perspective is the fact that 2024 is on course to be the hottest year on record . It will also be the first year that is 1.5 degrees Celsius warmer than pre-industrial levels . The inability to contain warming to 1.5 degrees -- a commitment countries made at the 2015 Paris Climate Conference -- is symptomatic of international climate cooperation 's failure . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> The latest U.N . assessment confirmed that global climate action is woefully insufficient . Current plans and policies will lead to 2.6 to 3.1 degrees Celsius of global warming this century , with no prospect of limiting the temperature increase to the 1.5C target . The Paris Agreement 's upper limit of 2C is also at grave risk . <p> The severity and frequency of dangerous heat waves , destructive storms and other disasters rises with every fraction of warming . Scientists say that with warming of 3C the world could pass several points of no return that would dramatically alter the planet 's climate and increase sea levels , including through the collapse of polar ice caps . <p> This year 's COP29 climate conference in Baku , Azerbaijan , was once again marked by controversies and contradictions . While negotiators reached a deal that would see wealthier countries provide a minimum of $300 billion per year by 2035 to aid poorer nations in their battle against climate change , several analyses found that this amount falls far short of the trillions of dollars needed to help vulnerable countries that will have to withstand droughts and floods , rising seas and worsening storms .
