<h> Cori Bush on losing her US House seat : ' I 'm just getting started ' <p> Cori Bush may be leaving Congress this month , but she is determined to stay in the fight for the future of the Democratic party and the direction of the country . <p> Bush , a two-term progressive representative from Missouri who lost her primary race in August amid an onslaught of spending by the American Israel Public Affairs Committee ( Aipac ) , looks back on her four years in the House with pride as she prepares to start a new chapter of her political career . <p> " I 'm happy about the work that we 've done , but also I just feel like there 's just so much more to do , and I just want St Louis to have the best outcome , " Bush said . " I 'm keeping the door open to many possibilities , but right now , all I can say is this : I 'm not going anywhere . I 'm just getting started . " <p> Bush , a member of the progressive " Squad " in the House , made a splash on Capitol Hill from her very first days there . After first gaining attention as an activist and community leader in the wake of the fatal police shooting of Michael Brown in 2014 , Bush won a House race on her second attempt in 2020 and was sworn in just days before the January 6 attack on the Capitol . Less than a week after the attack , Bush introduced a resolution to expel Republican members who had supported efforts to overturn the results of the 2020 presidential election , accusing them of sedition . <p> Seven months later , Bush made headlines again by staging a four-day protest on the Capitol steps to extend a pandemic-related moratorium on evictions . One month after that , she testified before the House oversight committee about her decision to have an abortion after she was raped at the age of 17 . <p> " We worked really , really hard , " Bush said . " We 've done some great things , and historic things , in our office in just a very short time , in four years , and I decided to be who I said I would be on the campaign trail , to be that person in Congress . " <p> Bush 's outspoken politics ultimately cost her a seat in the House . In the days after the 7 October Hamas attacks on Israel , Bush introduced the Ceasefire Now resolution calling for an end to the war in Gaza . After its introduction , Bush became the target of attack ads from Aipac 's Super Pac , the United Democracy Project ( UDP ) . <p> The Super Pac ran ads criticizing Bush for voting against Biden 's infrastructure bill and accusing her of failing to deliver for her district . The ads further imperiled Bush , who was already viewed as vulnerable after the justice department launched an investigation into her potential misuse of campaign funds for security services . <p> With her defeat , Bush became the second Squad member to lose a primary to an Aipac-backed challenger , after Representative Jamaal Bowman of New York lost his race to fellow Democrat George Latimer in June . Bush pointed to the two losses as evidence of the need to get dark money out of US elections , and she specifically excoriated Aipac for unseating Black lawmakers . During Bush 's primary , UDP was accused of distributing campaign mailers that distorted her features to lean into racist tropes about Black people . <p> " They made sure that they targeted Black legislators . Let 's just be clear : they targeted with the most money Black legislators , and I think that that was on purpose , " Bush said . " I will say to the Democratic party : we have to do a better job . " <p> Bush ( left ) with Ayanna Pressley in Washington on 10 December 2024 , calling upon Joe Biden to commute the death sentences of the 40 individuals on federal death row . Photograph : Sue Dorfman/Zuma Press Wire/Rex/Shutterstock <p> UDP did not respond to the Guardian 's request for comment . Bush framed Aipac 's involvement in Democratic primaries as a deliberate attempt to shift the party 's politics rightward . According to a Politico analysis , Aipac served as the largest source of Republican money into competitive Democratic primaries this year . <p> " I need Democrats to pay attention to the fact that what they 're really doing is they 're trying to move Democrats to the right , " Bush said . " And so they 're not going to stop with us . " <p> " I do n't take corporate Pac money . We are 100% grassroots funded . So I ca n't be bought by anyone , " Bush said . " In this democracy , we should not be able to buy elections . ... We do need to get the corporate money completely out of our elections . And it has to start with our leadership . " <p> The push to get corporate money out of politics could play a role in Bush 's next career move after Congress , but for now , she is making the most of her final days as a House member . She has joined forces with Representative Ayanna Pressley of Massachusetts , a fellow Squad member , to urge Joe Biden to direct the US archivist to certify and publish the Equal Rights Amendment ( ERA ) as the 28th amendment to the constitution . <p> " So much is housed under the Equal Rights Amendment . So we 're talking about closing the gender wage gap , actual protections as it relates to violence against women , sexual discrimination and harassment in the workplace , " Bush said . " This is the time . " <p> The campaign to certify the ERA faces significant legal hurdles . Earlier this month , the US archivist released a statement reiterating that courts had determined the ratification deadline had passed for the ERA , so the office could not legally publish it . <p> " I 'll continue to work to increase the minimum wage , housing justice , economic justice , police accountability , all of the things , " Bush said . " I was on the outside , then went inside , and now I will be going back outside , so I will be able to take that knowledge with me , and those connections . " <p> She hopes her ongoing efforts may serve as an inspiration for young progressives , many of whom feel dismayed and disillusioned over Donald Trump 's imminent return to the White House . <p> " Let 's turn that pain into purpose . Let 's turn that discouragement into greater work . Because what we can not do is shrink , " Bush said . " The fight for the next four years started already . We should already have our eyes on who 's going to be president in four years . And so those talking points , that messaging , that change needs to happen right now . "
