<h> The year Iran was defanged - and the effect it will have on the world <p> 2025 will be a further year of war and human tragedy in the Middle East <p> December 26 , 2024 6:00 am <p> The fall of the Assad dynasty after 54 years in power was a major setback for both Russia and Iran <p> cancel **31;1344;TOOLONG Share bookmark Save <p> share cancel **34;1377;TOOLONG <p> For understandable reasons , western reporters are quickly swept up in the euphoria of crowds celebrating the downfall of tyrannical regimes , be it Hosni Mubarak and Muammar Gaddafi in 2011 or Bashar al-Assad in December 2024 . <p> Human interest reporting also means moving individual testimony , especially from those liberated from nightmarish prisons or who speak from beyond the grave like poor Syrian activist Mazen al-Hamada . <p> That is not how leaders view the world , although they consume world news aplenty too , issuing their own sententious commentaries . Instead , they are obliged to think about how these dramas relate to vast games of chess as the big pieces constantly manoeuvre on the board . They are not so good at assessing the role of street politics , not being too interested in the fate of a single Tunisian veg seller back in 2011 or how opposition movements join up . <p> The fall of the Assad dynasty after 54 years in power , and the winding up of the Baath party , was a major setback for both Russia and Iran , which invested heavily in Bashar 's survival as he reeled from the local consequences of the Arab Spring . <p> Both Russia and Iran had ulterior motives . In the first case to check radical jihadism before it leeched north into the Caucasus and to project power into Africa ; in Iran 's case to operate a land bridge to Tehran 's inaugural franchise cum proxy -- the mullahs ' first line of defence against Israel being Lebanon 's Hezbollah . <p> While the Russians are clinging on at their Syrian bases , Israel has decapitated Hezbollah and is pulverising both Iran 's shadowy presence in Syria and the former regime 's navy , air force , missile systems and weapons research facilities . Increasingly illiberal within , Israel has become like Sparta without . <p> This reflects Israeli nervousness about the nature of the regime which will replace Assad , for at least he knew the rules of the game . In an ideal world , former HTS jihadis will succeed in maintaining Syria as a unitary state , enabling a transition to a better regime in which all of Syria 's myriad ethno-religious factions will have a voice . <p> But they also know that the HTS leader 's nom de guerre was ( Abu Mohammed ) " al-Jolani " , which refers to his ancestral home in the Israeli occupied Golan Heights . The Israelis are worried that a predictable dictator -- whose phones Mossad tapped even when he was a mere medical student in London -- could be replaced by Islamist extremists , or equally , a state which has disintegrated into intra-regional strife , with outside powers invested in rival factions . This might be called the Libyan outcome . <p> Speaking of Libya , the two clear outside winners in Syria are the close allies Turkey and Qatar . <p> Unlike other Gulf States , Qatar has consistently backed the opposition to Assad , and refused to charm him back into the wider autocratic Arab fold as the Emiratis and Saudis were keen to do . <p> Turkey also has its own clients within the Syrian armed resistance to Assad , their chief function being to check Kurdish attempts to create a statelet called Rojava along Turkey 's southern border -- a springboard for more PKK atrocities inside Turkey -- and to extend President Erdogan 's influence deeper into the Arab world . <h> Read Next <p> There he has the major advantage of being a pious Sunni , for Iranian power projection always depended on smaller Shia minorities . As a kind of bonus , the 3.5 million Syrian refugees in southern Turkey could go home if stability returns , moreover altering the demographics of northern Syria against the Kurds into the bargain . <p> Given that large areas of Syria have been laid waste by more than a decade of civil war , the combination of Qatari wealth and Turkish construction expertise is likely to play a big part in putting Humpty back together . <p> The rest of us are spectators compared with these experienced players . The British political class drones on about events it has no influence over as Tony Blinken ineffectually flits in and out while Joe Biden is still president . The US is mainly focused on its long-term campaign in the north east against the remnants of Isis , and in ensuring that large numbers of its captive supporters remain in camps operated by America 's armed Kurdish clients . Security trumps what passes for US strategy . <p> So far , Donald Trump has confined himself to saying that the US should leave the events in Syria well alone . Whatever happens in this land of " sand and death " is " not our fight " , as Trump declaimed in Paris . He could easily withdraw 900 troops from Syria , and leave the fight with Isis to Turkey , the second-largest military power in Nato . <p> While there are many pro-Israel and anti-Iran hawks in the incoming administration , the Maga base is adamantine in not wanting US involvement in costly wars in the Middle East . <p> Marco Rubio and Mike Waltz might wish to bomb Iran on behalf of Netanyahu , but Trump could just as easily fancy an historic bargain with the Ayatollah . He will be aware of recent Chinese-sponsored success in reconciling the Gulf autocrats with Iran , which directly flouts the Abraham Accords he crafted in his first administration . They do not want war and chaos in their vicinity , especially as they manage complex domestic transitions from hydrocarbon economies , towards entertainment , fintech , sport and tourism . <p> While prominent supporters of Israel abound near Trump -- daughter Tiffany has an influential Lebanese father-in-law and Trump 's new ambassador to Ankara , the private equity billionaire Tom Barrack , is also Lebanese and goes back with Trump a long way . <p> Trump and Erdogan also have a solid relationship . Trump is also tantalised by the wealth of the thrusting Mohammed bin Salman . A good maxim for watching the new administration is " follow the money " . <p> Trump 's organisation and his sons Don Junior and Eric have been hyper-active in major property developments in Saudi Arabia , the Emirates and Oman , while the Saudis , Qataris and Emiratis are big investors in Jared Kushner 's Affinity Fund . All Middle East policy will be refracted through those very material concerns , regardless of whatever the CIA , Pentagon or Department of State imagines is happening . <p> If Team Trump may agree with its Gulf friends in not wanting Israel to wreak further havoc on the entire region , another result of recent events in Syria may cause all players a major headache . <h> Read Next <p> Just as most Arabs have watched the horrors in Gaza and southern Lebanon , and now the wilful bombing raids in Syria , so they will have witnessed the ease with which Assad was deposed . This could raise their ultimate cauchemar , as it did back in the Arab Spring , of popular Islamist protests becoming contagious . <p> If , as some claim , today 's events resemble the anti-Communist protests which swept eastern and central Europe in 1989 , could 2025 see similar eruptions against regimes which are economically struggling and which have major youth " bulges " ? After all , only a week or two ago , the Gulf autocrats and others were glad-handing Assad . <p> Finally , Israel may imagine it has emerged as regional hegemon after its multiple wars in 2023-24 , even though the wear and tear on its forces and damage to its international standing have been tremendous . <p> Between his court appearances on corruption charges , Netanyahu may feel it is time for a final showdown with Tehran , especially after both states have moved up to direct attacks . His extremist political partners may decide it is time to replace Gazans and West Bank Palestinians with Jewish settlers . The former can be expelled to Egypt and Jordan . <p> That alone will ensure that 2025 will be a further year of war and human tragedy in the Middle East , rather than of Erdogan 's dream of a reversion to the peaceful regional tutelage of the Ottoman Empire .
