<h> Attachments <h> Introduction <p> The UN and partners estimate that at least US$6.6 billion is required to address the humanitarian needs of 3.3 million people in Gaza and the West Bank , including East Jerusalem ( any reference to the West Bank in this document includes East Jerusalem ) . To be able to implement the full scale of what is urgently needed , Israel must take immediate and effective measures to ensure the essential needs of civilians are met . This includes lifting all impediments to aid and fully facilitating humanitarian operations , including the distribution of essential goods to Palestinians in need . Humanitarian actors anticipate being limited in what they can achieve in 2025 due to severe restrictions on humanitarian actors and ever greater challenges to their ability to operate , including intensified and coordinated anti-UN rhetoric strategically aimed at delegitimizing humanitarian efforts . Full compliance with international humanitarian law would allow humanitarians to use the full US$6.6 billion required and meet the essential needs of civilians . <p> Assuming humanitarian actors will continue to face a constrained operating environment , the 2025 OPT Flash Appeal calls for US$4 billion of this amount for UN Agencies , INGO , and NGO partners to address some of the most urgent and critical needs of three million of the 3.3 million people identified as requiring assistance . <p> The Appeal will target the entire population of Gaza , estimated at 2.1 million people , and 900,000 people in the West Bank . For the West Bank , this reflects an incremental increase compared to 2024 resulting from rising needs linked to the deteriorating situation . <p> The speed and scale of the killing and destruction in the Gaza Strip ( Gaza ) are unlike anything seen in recent history . At the same time , violence in the West Bank has sharply escalated . The conflict is now a regional one , and there is a considerable risk that the situation in the West Bank will also worsen . Similarly , the magnitude of this response and operational constraints are beyond what has been seen before in OPT . <p> Without sustained solutions to end the violence , humanitarian needs will continue to rise . Beyond peace , genuine efforts to enable humanitarian assistance will require critical changes in the operating environment , including : <p> Humanitarian actors must have safe and sustained access to all people in need across the Gaza Strip and West Bank , including East Jerusalem . <p> Humanitarian goods must be allowed to enter Gaza at scale , requiring the opening of additional crossings into Gaza , supply routes within Gaza , and resumption of the commercial sector . <p> Deconfliction and the Humanitarian Notification System must be respected .
