<h> Ask about this document <h> Gaza : Nearly one million Palestinians face winter without shelter <p> Only 23 per cent of Gaza 's shelter needs have been met this autumn , leaving nearly one million Palestinians vulnerable to exposure during the harsh winter months , according to the Norwegian Refugee Council-led Shelter Cluster in Palestine . <p> The Shelter Cluster estimated in September that 2,000 trucks of tents or 200 trucks of sealing-off kits were urgently needed to provide basic winter protection for 1.13 million displaced Palestinians in Gaza . By late November , only 285,000 displaced people had received essential shelter materials . Since early October , Israel 's offensive and siege on North Gaza have displaced an additional 100,000 Palestinians , and in total 945,000 people are now in need of shelter assistance . <p> The entry of shelter materials into Gaza has decreased as flour , essential to address growing starvation , is being prioritised for transport through Gate 96 along the Fence Road , the most secure route for aid convoys . The Shelter Cluster urges donor governments to press Israel to allow the entry of weather-proofing materials and ensure safe access for humanitarian workers to reach vulnerable Palestinians throughout Gaza . <p> " We 've received only a fraction of the aid required to address the shelter crisis , " said Jeroen Quanjer , Shelter Cluster chair in Palestine . " Hundreds of thousands of displaced families are enduring the winter cold and rain without meaningful protection . Israeli authorities ' repeated denial of essential shelter materials prevents us from scaling up our response to build emergency shelters that can withstand Gaza 's winter conditions . " <p> A winter storm in late November flooded displacement sites , destroying tents and makeshift shelters and forcing many families to relocate . At least 101 displacement sites south of Wadi Gaza , hosting 450,720 Palestinians , are prone to flooding . <p> " We woke up to water flooding our tents , " said Mahmoud , a displaced Palestinian in central Gaza 's Deir al-Balah city . " Our children were asleep as the water reached them . Our mattresses and clothes are ruined . Now , there 's nothing left , just a lake of water . I 'm trying to salvage what 's left , but I feel abandoned . No one seems to care , neither the Arab world nor decision-makers . We 've been left on our own . " <p> Repeated displacements have forced families to leave behind essential shelter materials , often fleeing with only what they can carry . Many tents and supplies provided by aid agencies over the past year are now unusable due to wear and tear . Replacement supplies have been scarce as shelter materials entering Gaza have drastically decreased in recent months . <p> Between 1 September and 25 November , only 123 trucks carrying shelter assistance entered Gaza -- an average of just ten trucks per week . Many of these trucks included items not directly related to winterisation , such as mattresses and bedding . The limited supplies of tents and sealing-off kits , which include tarpaulins , plastic sheets , rope , and duct tape , have been insufficient to meet the overwhelming needs . <p> The Shelter Cluster calls for immediate action to address the shelter crisis in Gaza , warning that further delays in delivering critical supplies will leave hundreds of thousands of Palestinians exposed to life-threatening conditions this winter . <p> Only 23 per cent of winter shelter needs in Gaza have been met this autumn , leaving 945,000 Palestinians in need . ( Shelter Cluster ) . There are around 58,000 sealing off kits and over 36,000 tarpaulins procured and ready to be brought into Gaza that would serve around 76,000 families or about 400,000 people , which would still leave 44 per cent of winter shelter needs unmet . <p> The list of items currently provided by the Shelter Cluster includes sealing-off kits and bedding sets ( Shelter Cluster ) . <p> Temperatures in Gaza can fall to as low as 6C , with an average cumulative rainfall of 53 cm during winter . <p> With limited space to shelter safely , Palestinians in Gaza are exposed to the risks of hypothermia and other severe health conditions ( WHO ) . <p> The Shelter Cluster in Palestine supports people affected by disasters and internally displaced people affected by conflict with the means to live in safe , dignified and appropriate shelter . It enables enables better coordination among shelter actors so that people who need shelter assistance get help faster and receive the right kind of support .
