<h> Syrians cancel Christmas festivities in solidarity with Gaza <p> DAMASCUS-Christmas cheer has deserted the streets of Syria 's cities , where the main churches have limited celebrations to prayers in solidarity with Palestinians suffering war in Gaza . " In Palestine , the birthplace of Jesus Christ , people are suffering , " the Syriac Catholic Archbishop of Aleppo , Mor Dionysius Antoine Shahda , told AFP . The northern Syrian city 's central district of Azizia is usually home to a bustling festive market and a huge Christmas tree , while its streets are adorned with lights and trinkets . But this year , the main square is almost empty and there are no Christmas decorations in sight . " In Syria we cancelled all official celebrations and receptions in our churches in solidarity with the victims of the bombing on Gaza " by Israeli forces , Shahda said . The Syriac Catholic Church was not alone , with the leaders of three of Syria 's major churches -- the Greek Orthodox , Syriac Orthodox and Melkite Greek Catholic patriarchs -- announcing they were cancelling Christmas festivities and limiting celebrations to religious ceremonies . " Given the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for not receiving Christmas and New Year greetings , " the trio said in a joint statement , adding they were limiting ceremonies to " prayers " . The health ministry in the Hamas-ruled Palestinian territory says more than 20,000 people have been killed in the Gaza Strip since Israel launched its massive air and ground offensive , in response to a deadly attack on southern Israel on October 7 . Most of the dead in Gaza are women and children , officials say . The Hamas attack killed about 1,140 people in Israel , mostly civilians , according to an AFP tally based on official figures . Many Gazans have been displaced by the violence and forced into crowded shelters or tents , often struggling to find food , fuel , water and medical care . The UN agency for Palestinian refugees has said the ongoing Israeli military campaign left no safe place anywhere across the narrow territory . Before Syria 's civil war erupted in 2011 , it was home to more than 1.2 million Christians , though huge numbers have fled since . The conflict had dampened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the main front lines froze and government forces retook control of large swathes of the country . Still , gloom now prevails in the streets of the capital Damascus . Festivities are limited to a lone market , while the Greek Orthodox Mariamite Cathedral in Damascus has put up modest decorations and a small tree in its courtyard . Damascus resident Rachel Haddad , 66 , said she had been glued to her phone for more than two months , reading news of the devastation in Gaza , and did not have the heart to put up a Christmas tree . " This year was very sad . It began with the earthquake and ended with the Gaza war , " Haddad said , referring to the February 6 tremor that ripped through southern Turkey and Syria , killing at least 55,000 people .
