<h> Japan 's Sado mines added to World Heritage list <p> TOKYO - A network of mines on a Japanese island infamous for using conscripted wartime labour was added to UNESCO 's World Heritage register Saturday after South Korea dropped earlier objections to its listing . The Sado gold and silver mines , now a popular tourist attraction , are believed to have started operating as early as the 12th century and produced until after World War II . Japan had put a case for World Heritage listing because of their lengthy history and the artisanal mining techniques used there at a time when European mines had turned to mechanisation . The proposal was opposed by Seoul when it was first put because of the use of involuntary Korean labour during World War II , when Japan occupied the Korean peninsula . But South Korea 's foreign ministry said it had agreed to the listing " on the condition that Japan faithfully implements the recommendation ... to reflect the ' full history ' at the Sado Gold Mine site . " UNESCO confirmed the listing at its ongoing committee meeting in New Delhi after a bid highlighting the archaeological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " . " The inscription was the result of a 14-year effort , " Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida said on X. " I would like to share this joy with local people as well as all Japanese citizens . " Japan had reiterated a pledge to keeping the memories alive of " the harsh labour conditions of all workers " , the foreign ministry in Tokyo said in a statement . It added that exhibits on Sado island included data showing a higher percentage of Korean labourers were engaged in dangerous underground tasks , while others fled or were detained . <p> Historians have argued that recruitment conditions at the mine effectively amounted to forced labour , and that Korean workers faced significantly harsher conditions than their Japanese counterparts . <p> " Discrimination did exist , " Toyomi Asano , a professor of history of Japanese politics at Tokyo 's Waseda University , told AFP in 2022 . " Their working conditions were very bad and dangerous . The most dangerous jobs were allocated to them . " The Sado mines were listed alongside the Beijing Central Axis , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chinese capital . The 589-hectare heritage area reflects " the ancient Chinese tradition of urban planning , serving as an important emblem that highlights the distinctive characteristics of Chinese civilization , " state news agency Xinhua said . Other listings this week include the centuries-old , ornate burial mounds of the Ahom Dynasty in northeastern India and the Marquesas Islands in French Polynesia . The Saint Hilarion complex , one of the oldest monasteries in the Middle East dating back to the fourth century , was meanwhile added to a list of World Heritage sites in danger due to the war in Gaza . The UNESCO committee meeting runs until Wednesday .
