<h> Who might make up Harris ' Cabinet <p> If Kamala Harris wins the election , she will likely approach the task of filling out her Cabinet and West Wing much like she did when she took over Joe Biden 's campaign operation this summer . <p> While she 'll ensure her closest advisers and key Cabinet members are people she personally trusts , there will be some continuity with the current administration , according to five people familiar with ongoing conversations granted anonymity to speak candidly about the transition process . And regardless of whether Democrats keep their narrow hold of the Senate or Republicans take control , Harris will have to game out how much of Biden 's Cabinet she can hold over . <p> Harris has tasked Yohannes Abraham , who led the Biden-Harris transition four years ago , with guiding hers . But unlike the president , who brought a small cadre of aides into the West Wing who 'd been part of his inner circle for decades , Harris does n't have a long career in Washington . In filling out her vice presidential office and revamping Biden 's campaign , she has leaned on a small group of trusted aides for advice as well as top operatives from across the party , many of them veterans of Barack Obama 's campaign network . And after four years as vice president , dozens of former Harris staffers are scattered around Washington , enmeshed at other executive branch agencies and on Capitol Hill . <p> As with most modern Democratic transitions , Harris and her team will seek to send a message with her choices by ensuring that a future Cabinet demonstrates her commitment to diversity -- racially , geographically and politically . She 's promised that one difference between her and Biden would be that she 'd appoint at least one Republican to her Cabinet . <p> This is POLITICO 's snapshot of the leading contenders for Harris ' top jobs . <h> Secretary of State <p> For Harris , who has n't yet fully distinguished her foreign policy agenda from Biden 's , the choice of top diplomat will suggest whether she 's going for four more years of Biden , or something entirely new . <p> If elected , the decision will come at a critical time , as Harris tries to navigate the crisis in the Middle East , Russia 's aggression in Europe and China 's efforts to extend its influence globally . Her secretary of State would play a key part in her attempt to balance support for Israel with the mounting pressure from within her own party to take action to ensure better protections for civilians in Gaza and Lebanon . <p> More than perhaps any other Cabinet member , the secretary of State has the biggest chance to make his or her mark on world history -- for better or worse . Colin Powell delivered a famous U.N . address on Iraq 's purported weapons of mass destruction program before the Iraq war that permanently tarnished his legacy . John Kerry negotiated the Iran nuclear deal under Barack Obama , which former President Donald Trump abandoned . And then there was Mike Pompeo , who secretly flew to North Korea to lay the groundwork for Trump and Kim Jong Un 's high-profile nuclear talks ( though these talks later fell apart ) . <h> William Burns <p> Burns is a former career diplomat whose posts included ambassador to Russia during the Bush administration and deputy secretary of State during the Obama administration . He has support in both political parties . Biden has handed him some tricky tasks , including nailing down a hostage-and-cease-fire deal that could end the Israel-Hamas war . On that , he has n't delivered , and the entire Middle East imbroglio could be used to tar him in a confirmation process . <h> Jeff Flake <p> Flake is a former Republican senator from Arizona who broke with Trump and served as Biden 's envoy to Turkey until last month , a tough diplomatic assignment . His GOP background would make him a Cabinet outlier , but choosing him could send the message that Harris believes in the importance of America speaking with one voice on foreign policy . Flake 's confirmation would depend in part on how much influence Trump and his MAGA movement retain among Senate Republicans , but Democrats would likely support him . U.S. diplomats , too , would probably welcome a person seen as a moderate who understands what they do in the field . <h> Chris Murphy <p> Murphy is a progressive favorite with years of demonstrated interest in foreign affairs . He stands out in part because he 's willing to be tougher on U.S. allies with poor human rights records , such as Egypt and Saudi Arabia . The Connecticut senator backed Biden 's decision to withhold some weapons from Israel and insists a Palestinian state be part of any future solution to the Middle East crisis . Many Republicans would probably denounce him as too far-left in a confirmation process , but Democrats would back him and senators rarely stymie one of their own . <h> Linda Thomas-Greenfield <p> Thomas-Greenfield is a Foreign Service veteran whose past posts include ambassador to Liberia . She commands wide respect at the State Department , especially among women and people of color who often feel shut out of the top ranks , and has forged a good working relationship with Harris , administration insiders say . While Thomas-Greenfield has a strong interest in African issues , she 's fluent in foreign policy writ large , especially after her stint at the United Nations . There , she rallied more than 140 countries to rebuke Russia for invading Ukraine . But in carrying out Biden 's defense of Israel at the Security Council , she and her team have faced accusations of hypocrisy . <h> Pete Buttigieg <p> In his four years in the Biden Cabinet , Buttigieg was leaned on at times to carry the administration 's message on TV . His ability to communicate and broader political talent are clear , as is his political ambition . Although he may be a longshot for what is arguably the most prestigious position in the Cabinet , serving as America 's top diplomat ( or as U.S. ambassador to the United Nations ) is high on the former South Bend mayor 's list , according to four people familiar with private conversations . <p> Advertisement <h> Treasury Secretary <p> Any Treasury secretary pick by Harris would be an early signal of the extent to which she 'll pursue support from corporate America or seek to placate the progressive wing of her party -- one deeply skeptical of big business . <p> On the campaign trail , Harris vowed to crack down on businesses that engage in wrongdoing , leaning on her experience pursuing banks and other companies as California attorney general . At the same time , she made concerted outreach to business leaders , declaring , " I am a capitalist " and pitching herself as a " practical " and " pragmatic " steward of the economy . <p> Harris has made growing the middle class a centerpiece of her economic platform . She 's called for tax breaks for families , first-time homebuyers , and small businesses . Her plans also include incentives to boost the housing supply and bolster American manufacturing . <p> Many of those ideas will enjoy broad support among Democrats . But a Harris Treasury secretary would also have to navigate intraparty divides on other issues , such as financial regulation . On crypto , for example , Harris has signaled she 'd take a friendlier approach to the industry than Biden-era regulators . <p> The next secretary will steer the administration through key fiscal battles set to dominate Washington in the coming year . That includes a looming debt ceiling fight and negotiations over a major tax deal to address the expiration of the 2017 Republican tax law . <h> Lael Brainard <p> Brainard is a veteran economist with a long background in policymaking and could be seen as a steady , consensus pick . She most recently was vice chair of the Federal Reserve and was confirmed on a 52-43 vote for that role in 2022 . Brainard , who is believed to covet the job , was widely seen as a top contender for Treasury secretary at the beginning of the Biden administration . But her current job as a top economic adviser to Biden may work against her if Harris is eager to start fresh with a new team . <h> Michael Bennet <p> One of Harris ' former Senate colleagues with whom she 's maintained a relationship , Bennet offers a background in private equity that would reassure Wall Street . He also has relevant experience as a member of the Senate Finance Committee and is a co-author of the Child Tax Credit , a major plank of the vice president 's economic agenda . Although not a historic choice like Wally Adeyemo , Bennet is thought to be confirmable even with a GOP-controlled Senate . And with a Democratic governor in his home state able to appoint a replacement , there is no risk to the party of losing the seat . <h> Wally Adeyemo <p> An Obama administration veteran , Adeyemo was confirmed as Treasury 's No. 2 official on a voice vote in the Senate . He 's overseen a wide-ranging portfolio at Treasury , including high-profile work to counter Russia 's war against Ukraine . Adeyemo is a BlackRock alum who also has ties to Sen. Elizabeth Warren , having served as the first chief of staff to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau . If he were to land the job , Adeyemo would be the nation 's first Black Treasury Secretary . <h> Gina Raimondo <p> The former Rhode Island governor and venture capitalist has been at the forefront of the Biden administration 's industrial policy and competition with China . She would be a centrist , business-friendly pick , though one that could alienate progressives . While her interest in running Treasury is well known , some allies of both Harris and Raimondo have said the two do n't have a great relationship . <h> Brian Nelson <p> Nelson was Treasury 's undersecretary for terrorism and financial intelligence until leaving to join the Harris campaign in July . He 's a longtime close Harris adviser , dating back to her tenure as California attorney general . Nelson is widely viewed as a frontrunner for a senior post in the Harris administration . <h> Blair Effron <p> The prominent financier and investment banker is a longtime Democratic donor and was a major early supporter of Harris ' 2020 presidential run . Effron has been floated for a potential top economic role in the administration . <h> Defense Secretary <p> So far , Harris has revealed few details of what her defense policies might entail . But no matter who she favors for secretary of Defense -- the president 's top civilian adviser when it comes to military matters and the department 's two million-plus employees -- she 's unlikely to usher in a major departure from Biden . If elected , she 'll be confronted with the multiple flare-ups that took place during her boss 's tenure . <p> Harris ' Pentagon is likely to continue some of the major pillars pursued by Donald Trump and Biden , such as boosting research and development , building out the Space Force and rapidly fielding innovative technology . While the Pentagon budget is n't likely to go down on her watch , a Democratic administration will probably pair hikes in defense spending with domestic programs . <p> As usual , there have been plenty of senators and representatives who are high on the rumored lists of contenders . But plucking lawmakers from a Congress with such narrow margins could be risky getting Harris ' appointee confirmed . <h> Christine Wormuth <p> Wormuth has been in and out of the Pentagon since the Obama administration and has dealt with everything from high-level policy jobs to the nitty-gritty of recruitment issues and weapons modernization as the Army 's top civilian . <p> That kind of experience has given her a deep understanding of multiple levels of Pentagon bureaucracy and has kept her in the game while the U.S. supported Ukraine after Russia launched its full-scale invasion in 2022 . The Army has been by far the biggest donor of munitions and equipment to the Ukrainians , forcing service leaders to come up with plans to replace that equipment and pump more money into its defense industry , something the Pentagon writ large is also eager to do . <h> Mich ? le Flournoy <p> Flournoy is a prominent name in national security circles and was seen as a frontrunner for Pentagon chief for previous Democratic nominees , including Biden and Hillary Clinton . Her experience as the Pentagon 's former policy chief would give Harris a seasoned hand at the Defense Department . And Flournoy 's connections with leaders in both parties could give Harris a confirmable Pentagon pick . <p> But her more hawkish views while in government could cost her with Harris as they did with Biden . Flournoy and Biden clashed during the Obama administration , for instance , as she favored an expanded counterinsurgency mission in Afghanistan . <p> Flournoy 's ties to defense companies through her consulting firm , WestExec Advisors , could also spur opposition from some fellow Democrats who 've previously pressured Biden to keep industry at arm 's length in personnel decisions . <h> Adam Smith <p> Smith has served as chair or ranking member on the House Armed Services Committee for nearly 14 years . He 's far from a household name , but the Washington state Democrat 's stock may be on the rise with Harris as he 's defended her national security record and argued the vice president would be an able candidate before she jumped into the race . <p> Smith was among the most prominent and early Democrats to call on Biden to stand down after his disastrous debate performance against Trump , arguing Harris would be a much better standard-bearer for the party . <p> Often a critic of hard-right policies on Capitol Hill , Smith has formed strong working relationships with Republicans in the House and Senate . Smith may have previewed one of his top priorities for the post when he recently said a Harris administration must do more than the Biden team to quickly get new technology into the hands of U.S. troops . <h> Attorney General <p> If Harris wins , it wo n't be her first time overseeing a justice department , having twice been elected as California 's attorney general . And while touting her record in that position in her campaign stump speech , she has not-so-subtly foreshadowed what she might want the U.S. Department of Justice to prioritize . <p> Think consumer protection , drug cartels , and gender-based violence . Harris regularly cites her work negotiating a settlement with banks linked to the 2008 housing crisis -- describing her decision to scuttle a nearly-finalized proposal and win more money for Californians . She also highlights her work prosecuting drug traffickers and combating sex crimes . <p> One of the biggest questions if Harris is elected will be what she does with the powerful Antitrust Division , which can move to block mergers deemed monopolistic . The Biden administration amped up antitrust enforcement , and Wall Street and K Street are keenly interested to see if Harris will continue that focus . <p> Her attorney general will inherit a bevy of politically electric prosecutions , including the cases against New York City Mayor Eric Adams and -- of course -- Donald Trump . The department also has a hand in judicial nominations , pardons , counter-espionage , surveillance , and police oversight . And it 's not a job with much appeal for ascendant politicians . Attorneys general regularly face no-win dilemmas and congressional crosshairs , and nobody who has held the job in this century has gone on to higher political office . <h> Catherine Cortez Masto <p> Harris ' strong relationship with Cortez Masto was laid bare this summer when the vice president tasked her former Senate colleague with helping to vet and interview her short list of potential running mates . And she shares Harris ' law enforcement background -- and has similarly leveraged her work as a state attorney general . Many Democrats familiar with the transition expect the Nevada senator to be part of a Harris administration , and DOJ offers a prime landing spot , made easier by Nevada 's new law requiring Gov . Joe Lombardo to fill any vacant congressional seat by appointing someone from the outgoing lawmaker 's party . The prospect of elevating Rep. Stephen Horsford , the CBC chair and another close Harris ally , to the Senate could give her added incentive to tap Cortez Masto . <h> Doug Jones <p> The former Democratic senator from Alabama was reportedly a finalist for the job under Biden , and some Democrats thought he would have brought a political sensibility to the office that Attorney General Merrick Garland has eschewed . During his brief tenure in the U.S. Senate , he built relationships with Republicans that could prove valuable during a confirmation process . And he won widespread praise when , as a U.S. attorney in Alabama , he oversaw the long-belated prosecution of two Klansmen for the 16th Street Baptist Church bombing in Birmingham that killed four Black girls during the Civil Rights movement . Like Cortez Masto , Jones is viewed as highly confirmable . <h> Cory Booker <p> Booker , another also-ran from the 2020 primary , is a Yale Law School grad who could also be in the mix to serve as Harris ' attorney general . Like Harris , he has spoken passionately about justice and civil rights . And he could likely be confirmed by a Republican Senate and replaced by a Democratic governor . <h> Sally Yates <p> Yates was the department 's second-in-command for the final years of the Obama administration and stepped in as acting attorney general after Trump 's inauguration . But the gig only lasted 10 days . Trump quickly fired her when she refused to defend his executive order banning travel from seven Muslim-majority countries -- that won her plaudits from Democrats . But that battle made Yates more of a political lightning rod , which could complicate efforts to get her confirmed by a Republican Senate . <h> Andy Beshear <p> Like Harris , the Kentucky governor was previously his home state 's attorney general . He was vetted as her running mate but passed over . Beshear won his 2023 reelection by 5 points , impressing national Democrats with his performance in a red state . Beshear could run for a third term in Kentucky , but an appointment to attorney general offers a way to elevate a future party leader and bring regional diversity to the Cabinet . <h> Vanita Gupta <p> Gupta , renowned for her work on civil rights issues , helmed the department 's Civil Rights Division for the final years of the Obama administration . In that role , she oversaw the rollout of consent decrees aimed at reforming troubled police departments , including in Ferguson , Missouri , and Baltimore . She returned to the department as its third-highest official under the Biden administration . Republican senators have long criticized her for her record on policing , so her confirmation by a GOP-controlled Senate seems unlikely . <p> Advertisement <h> Interior Secretary <p> Though relatively low profile as Cabinet posts go , her pick for Interior secretary will offer a clue into Harris ' commitment to renewable energy and what kind of relationship the federal government will have with Native American tribes . <p> The agency is also a regulator that sets safety standards for offshore oil rigs and responds to wildfires . <p> Energy output on Interior-managed lands has climbed under Biden . But the department has also introduced new rules that raise the cost of producing fossil fuels while limiting the area available to drilling . <p> The department has also made strides in bringing more solar and wind production to federal land . Expect Harris , if elected , to try to continue to boost renewables and keep the hurdles in place on fossil fuel production . <h> Deb Haaland <p> Haaland was expected to stay at Interior in a second Biden term , and so far there 's been no talk of her stepping down if Harris wins . A former House lawmaker from New Mexico and Pueblo of Laguna member , Haaland has carried out the administration 's policies limiting future oil and gas production on federal land and worked to improve the federal government 's relationship with tribes . <p> Still , Haaland would be expected to be only a transitional figure in a Harris Cabinet . Political chatter in New Mexico suggests Haaland may eventually focus her gaze on the Santa Fe governor 's residence , but that race is still two years away . <h> Steve Bullock <p> In 2022 , Haaland appointed Bullock , who briefly ran for president in 2020 , to oversee the Bureau of Land Management 's new nonprofit foundation tasked with helping the government protect public lands . Given that work , and the former Montana governor 's political and executive experience , Bullock could be an appealing pick to succeed Haaland at Interior . <h> Mike Connor <p> An old hand in policy circles around Washington , Connor held the No. 2 spot at Interior during the Obama administration and was a runner-up for the top Interior spot under Biden . <p> Instead , he has been a quiet steward of the Army Corps of Engineers for the current administration . In that role , he 's been handling hot-button permitting decisions for oil and natural gas infrastructure and leading efforts to prepare the nation 's builder of ports , levees and locks and dams for climate change , while also working to make the agency more responsive to tribes and disadvantaged communities . Like Haaland , Connor is Native American , from the Taos Pueblo in New Mexico . And he has the advantage of having won Senate confirmation multiple times . <h> Jon Tester <p> Tester , who has long defied the political odds in deeply red Montana , has not led a single poll against his Republican challenger this fall . If he loses his seat , Interior could be a comfortable landing spot for a lifelong farmer with strong relationships in Washington and a connection to rural voters . <h> Agriculture Secretary <p> Agriculture secretaries under Democratic presidents in the past several decades have wielded an unusual amount of power over the country 's food supply and its largest anti-hunger program , which now serves more than 40 million low-income Americans . <p> Any USDA chief under Harris would likely have wide latitude to continue Biden 's effort to plow billions of federal dollars into rural communities and programs to incentivize farmers to adopt greener practices . They 'd also likely pursue ways to expand federal programs to provide food benefits to low-income Americans , after Congress and the Biden administration greatly expanded them during the pandemic and Democrats have pursued larger increases since . <h> Xochitl Torres Small <p> Torres Small is one of the top contenders to take over as Harris ' USDA chief . And she 'd be a historic pick , as the first woman of color to ever lead the department . <p> Torres Small would likely continue many of the Biden administration priorities around increasing food benefits for low-income Americans and using USDA to help tackle climate change through the agriculture sector . She would , however , be the first new USDA chief under a Democratic president in more than a decade , signaling a change at the department under Harris . <h> Karen Ross <p> Ross was appointed California 's state agriculture chief in 2011 by then-Gov . Jerry Brown ( D-Calif. ) , and has served in the role ever since . She also served as current and longtime U.S. Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack 's chief of staff in 2009 during the Obama administration . She 'd be a pick from Harris ' home state of California . <h> Tom Vilsack <p> Vilsack is the longest-serving USDA chief in recent history and one of the longest-serving Cabinet officials in the past few decades . <p> Vilsack has recently suggested to reporters that he is n't ruling out returning to USDA should Harris win , a sentiment confirmed by three people who 've recently spoken with him and were granted anonymity to discuss the matter . He seems to be " keeping his options open , " one of the people said . <h> Commerce Secretary <p> Harris is likely to continue elevating the Commerce Department from a hodgepodge of departments -- from trade enforcement to the census -- to a major implementer of U.S. economic statecraft . <p> Under Biden , Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo has expanded the scope and profile of the agency 's work , taking a leading role in shepherding Biden 's CHIPS Act -- a key industrial policy initiative -- through Congress and overseeing its implementation . She has also taken a larger role in international economic talks , leading negotiations for three of the four sections of its Indo-Pacific Economic Framework , setting new investment networks and voluntary labor and environmental standards for U.S. trading partners in South Asia . <p> At the same time , Raimondo has has continued to ramp up the agency 's sanction authority , issuing record economic penalties against Russia , China and other U.S. adversaries through the Bureau of Industry and Security . Those efforts are likely to escalate no matter who wins the White House . <h> JB Pritzker <p> If appointed , the Illinois governor would not be the first Pritzker to run the Commerce Department , following his sister Penny , who led the agency during Barack Obama 's second term . Whether the scion of one of the country 's richest families wants to join Harris ' Cabinet is unclear , but given his fundraising prowess and how quickly he fell in line with Harris when she replaced Biden as the Democrats ' nominee , he would seem to be someone who she might try to find a landing spot for if he wanted one . Commerce , most Democratic operatives believe , would be the likeliest fit . <h> Phil Murphy <p> Much like Pritzker , the New Jersey governor 's presidential ambitions are no secret . Unlike Pritker , however , he 's term-limited out of office in early 2026 , making the former head of the Democratic Governors Association someone who could be looking for a job in the administration . <p> Advertisement <h> Labor Secretary <p> The Department of Labor under the Biden administration spent the better part of four years unwinding a suite of policies issued under Donald Trump that collectively chipped away at labor unions ' leverage against employers and gave businesses more leeway on how they treated their workforce on everything from independent contractors to overtime pay requirements . <p> However much of Biden 's labor legacy is tied up in court , particularly in conservative venues stocked with Trump appointees , and high-profile new rules regarding workplace heat safety and training programs remain incomplete . Harris is expected to broadly mirror Biden 's approach to workplace issues . <p> Acting Labor Secretary Julie Su has proven to be a loyal replacement after Marty Walsh left the administration to lead the NHL Players Association , but she never managed to secure the support needed from Senate Democrats to be confirmed . <p> As such her time atop DOL could hinge on whether Republicans take back control of the Senate . The GOP would almost certainly vote down Su 's nomination if Harris resubmitted it , and keeping her around in an acting capacity would spark another fight over obscure federal vacancy laws . At the same time Su was strongly backed by Asian American lawmakers and AAPI groups who felt snubbed by Biden 's first round of Cabinet secretary selections . And Harris -- as the first president of South Asian descent -- would likely want to ensure a diverse Cabinet . <h> Julie Su <p> Su was confirmed on a party-line vote , with Harris casting the tie-breaking vote , to be deputy Labor secretary . But after Marty Walsh left the agency 's top job in 2023 , Su never overcame resistance in the Senate to her filling the post , which she 's held in an acting capacity . She previously served as a top labor official in California -- Harris ' home state . She 'd be the continuity option , but has faced confirmation difficulties . <h> Laphonza Butler <p> Butler is a former union leader at the Service Employee International Union , a powerhouse in Democratic politics both nationally and in California , who was appointed to her seat in 2023 following the death of longtime Sen. Dianne Feinstein . <p> Butler declined to run in 2024 and will be leaving office following November 's special election to fill the final two months of Feinstein 's term . She has declined to reveal her plans , but Butler is a steadfast Harris ally who previously worked as a policy aide on her 2019 presidential bid . <p> In the past , former senators of both parties have generally had a smoother path to confirmation before their one-time colleagues than other nominees , potentially removing a major hurdle . <h> Portia Wu <p> Wu has led the Maryland Department of Labor since Gov . Wes Moore took office in January 2023 , where she has worked to stand up a paid leave system enacted by lawmakers as well as assist workers whose jobs were disrupted by the Francis Scott Key Bridge collapse . <p> Prior to that , during the tail end of the Obama administration , Wu led one of the U.S. DOL 's major sub-branches , the Employment and Training Administration , for several years . In between she held a top post at Microsoft 's government affairs shop . <h> Health and Human Services Secretary <p> Harris ' record suggests a willingness to build on Biden 's health policy priorities and , in some cases , potentially be more aggressive , including on abortion rights and lowering drug costs . <p> That could put Biden administration officials in pole position to lead HHS , especially as Biden 's secretary , Xavier Becerra , who is believed to want to run for governor of California , was in discussions to leave the administration before the current president stepped out of the race . <p> Any Harris pick would almost certainly want to expand access to abortion and in vitro fertilization and expand Medicare drug pricing negotiations . And several potential nominees being floated have been lauded for their ability to work across the aisle . <p> But the challenge of getting a nominee confirmed by the Senate -- possibly one with a Republican majority -- could limit her ability to pick a nominee who would be more aggressive on health issues like reproductive rights . <h> Michelle Lujan-Grisham <p> Biden vetted the New Mexico governor for the HHS post four years ago , so she is well known to Harris ' team and a friend of the vice president , who officiated her 2022 wedding and initially considered her as a potential running mate . Her experience serving as New Mexico 's health secretary before her election to Congress aligns with a Cabinet post at HHS , and her outspokenness on reproductive rights since the Supreme Court 's overturning of Roe v. Wade has echoed Harris ' own speeches on the matter . <h> Mandy Cohen <p> Cohen has served as CDC director for Biden since July 2023 and was previously floated as a potential pick to be Biden 's HHS secretary , before he ultimately nominated Becerra . Cohen also was a top official for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services in the Obama administration , and the head of North Carolina 's health agency during the Covid-19 pandemic . <p> She came to the CDC at an inflection point : The agency was under intense congressional scrutiny for its handling of the Covid crisis and was desperately trying to reach -- and gain trust from -- the public in new ways . To that end , her bipartisan record in and outside of Washington could be key . In politically divided North Carolina , she helped make Medicaid expansion a reality . <p> Still , she 's been criticized by some Republicans in Congress , and ascending to a more prominent role could intensify their ire . <h> Chiquita Brooks-LaSure <p> Brooks-LaSure has served as Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services director in the Biden administration since May 2021 . During her time in the administration , she has focused on implementing the Inflation Reduction Act , which allows Medicare to negotiate some prescription drug prices . <p> That work -- much touted by Harris , who says she wants to expand negotiated pricing -- could boost Brooks-LaSure 's appeal . And her earlier Senate confirmation , which included some Republican support , could also be to her credit . <p> Brooks-LaSure was previously deputy director for policy at the Center for Consumer Information and Insurance Oversight at CMS , and has experience on the Hill in helping to pass the Affordable Care Act . <h> Vivek Murthy <p> Murthy has served as the Biden administration 's surgeon general since 2021 , where he focused on public campaigns around the youth mental health crisis and rising rates of loneliness and isolation . <p> Murthy was previously surgeon general in the Obama administration . His 2014 and 2021 Senate confirmations , which included some Republican support , could also benefit him . Previously , he co-chaired Biden 's Covid-19 advisory board . <h> Andrea Palm <p> Palm , currently the deputy secretary of the agency , has served in a number of roles at HHS through the Obama and Biden administrations . She also worked in Wisconsin Gov . Tony Evers ' Cabinet overseeing the state 's Department of Health Services . <p> She 's been highlighted for her intimate knowledge of HHS , with some saying they think she could achieve Harris ' health policy goals relatively quickly . <h> Housing and Urban Development Secretary <p> Harris , like Donald Trump , has lamented the rising cost of housing while on the campaign trail , pledging to bring down prices by expanding the supply of homes . <p> She 's called for expanded tax breaks to boost construction , a new innovation fund to induce localities to pare back restrictive zoning and up to $25,000 in down payment assistance for first-time homebuyers . And Harris would rely on HUD to help administer some of those programs if Congress passed them . The Biden administration has repeatedly requested funding increases for the department . <p> A Harris pick would also be charged with implementing the Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing rule , a stalled regulation the Biden administration has not yet finalized . The rule would require states and localities to track and address patterns of residential segregation to receive federal funding as part of a broader agenda to narrow the racial wealth gap and increase racial equity . <h> Adrianne Todman <p> The acting HUD secretary is well-liked by housing advocates and industry , and she 's made it through the Senate confirmation process before . She was confirmed by the Senate in 2021 to serve as deputy secretary after a stint as the CEO of the National Association of Housing and Redevelopment Officials . ? ? <h> Barbara Lee <p> The progressive California congresswoman has been a close ally of Harris and demonstrated her political ambitions with an ill-fated Senate run after Sen. Dianne Feinstein 's death . House Financial Services Committee Chair Maxine Waters ( D-Calif. ) floated Lee for HUD in an interview , saying she 's heard she wants the job . A Lee spokesperson declined to comment . <h> Julia Gordon <p> Gordon is widely seen as competent and has supporters on both sides of the aisle . She was confirmed as HUD assistant secretary for housing in 2022 . <h> Sherrod Brown <p> This one depends on the election . If the Ohio senator loses in November , he could be in the mix for HUD secretary . Brown has relevant expertise for the department after chairing the Senate Banking Committee , which oversees HUD , and he has taken a particular interest in housing concerns during his tenure . <h> Keisha Lance Bottoms <p> The former mayor of Atlanta has been a strong surrogate for Harris during the campaign . She ran for mayor in part on a plan to make housing more affordable , and the city committed nearly $600 million to developing and preserving affordable units during her tenure . <p> Advertisement <h> Transportation Secretary <p> The Transportation Department , a 55,000-person strong agency that doles out money to states for infrastructure projects and sets regulations to keep automobiles , airplanes and more safe , was super-charged under the Biden administration . The enactment of the 2021 infrastructure law pumped $1.2 trillion into programs under DOT 's remit , including for new initiatives such as one to help states build out charging infrastructure for electric vehicles , and another to help tear down highways that have divided poor , often minority communities . <p> Harris has been largely quiet on transportation issues during her campaign , and an examination of her record as a California senator does n't yield much about how she might govern on the topic . However , people with a stake in transportation issues in Washington expect her to mostly continue Biden 's policies , including those seeking to reduce the transportation sector 's significant contributions to greenhouse gas emissions . <p> Harris has already committed to appointing a Republican to a Cabinet role in her administration , and DOT secretary could be a logical place for that , especially since there is some precedent . Democrat Norman Mineta served as Transportation Secretary for George W. Bush . More recently , Ray LaHood , a Republican former member of Congress , headed up DOT under Barack Obama . <h> Polly Trottenberg <p> Trottenberg checks many boxes for the post , including her most recent turn as DOT Secretary Pete Buttigieg 's chief lieutenant at the agency . In that role , she has led the implementation of the 2021 infrastructure law and its many billions of dollars in new spending . <p> She also served a stint as acting administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration during a crucial gap in its leadership , and as New York City 's Transportation Commissioner , in addition to having spent many years helping craft policy as a top aide on Capitol HIll . Trottenberg knows how to work the levers of power , has a deep and broad knowledge of transportation policy and has been a respected Democratic hand for decades . <h> Francis Suarez <p> If Harris wants to appoint someone from the ranks of mayor -- similar to the mold of Obama 's former DOT Secretary Anthony Foxx , who was plucked from being mayor of Charlotte , North Carolina -- she might look toward Suarez , Miami 's Republican mayor . Suarez concurrently serves as vice chair of the Miami-Dade Transportation Planning Organization and as a coastal mayor has had to actively grapple with the effect of climate change on his city . <h> Shailen Bhatt <p> Bhatt , while not a politician , has extensive experience overseeing transportation systems at the state and federal level . He was the head of state departments of Transportation in Delaware and Colorado prior to his 2022 appointment to serve as director of the Federal Highway Authority , where he played a major role in implementing the bipartisan infrastructure law . An Indian American , Bhatt would also bring additional diversity to a potential Harris Cabinet . <h> Energy Secretary <p> The Energy secretary oversees a sprawling department tasked with implementing the United States ' nuclear program and doling out billions of dollars in grants and loans to help transition to low-carbon energy sources . The department is also at the forefront of scientific research into next-generation technologies and overseeing U.S. energy supply . <p> Under Biden , the department has restructured and grown in size to help implement initiatives under the bipartisan infrastructure law and Democrats ' climate law , particularly to help deploy clean energy technologies and infrastructure . <p> A Harris administration will likely continue the Biden administration 's pace in implementing those clean energy and infrastructure laws , while advancing research into industrial decarbonization and other crucial next-generation technologies . A new Energy secretary will also oversee next steps on the Biden administration 's study on whether new liquefied natural gas exports are in the national interest . <h> Jennifer Granholm <p> Granholm has helmed the department since early 2021 and could stick around under a Harris administration . The former Michigan governor has already played a key role in implementing the Biden administration 's effort to expand clean energy and fight climate change -- often putting job creation at the center of her department 's work . <p> Granholm recently said she would consider staying on as secretary or some other role in government again if given the chance . " I 'm open to whatever , but those are conversations I would have to have , " she said , before quipping : " And let 's be clear , there 's only one person that I 'd serve with , anyway . " <p> Prior to joining the climate office , he was deputy secretary for energy and environment for the state of New York , leading statewide efforts on climate change . He also held climate policy roles in the Obama administration , including as a policy aide to former Energy Secretary Steven Chu . <h> David Turk <p> Turk has been at the department nearly as long as Granholm . As the No. 2 official at the department , he 's been involved with early-stage innovation projects and implementation of the climate law , including work with the private sector , to help transition to clean energy and cut emissions . He also has traveled around the country pitching the Biden administration 's actions . <p> Turk , in his prior role , served as deputy executive director of the International Energy Agency , where he focused on helping countries make progress on clean energy . During the Obama administration , he spearheaded the Energy Department 's launch of Mission Innovation to help enhance clean energy innovation . <h> Jay Inslee <p> The climate hawk and one-time presidential contender who helped raise his party 's ambitions on climate and clean energy in 2020 could play another vital role under a Harris administration . Inslee , who is not seeking reelection as Washington state governor , is already involved in the campaign to help motivate climate-minded voters . Conservation groups would also love to see Inslee leading the EPA . His confirmation is less in question than his interest level , as Inslee speaks often of his desire to spend more time in Washington with his grandchildren . <h> Arun Majumdar <p> Majumdar chairs Granholm 's advisory board , and has been named by multiple former DOE veterans as a possible pick for a high-level position in a Harris administration . He also is a former vice president for energy at Google . His background with energy technology and previous experience with the department could fit well with the ongoing focus on distribution of Inflation Reduction Act funds . <h> Education Secretary <p> If Harris wins , her Education Department will have to confront a range of challenges sparked by her predecessor . There are court fights over much of the Biden administration 's student loan forgiveness agenda , as well as efforts to reshape federal rules on how campuses address sexual misconduct and discrimination . And there are delays in implementing regulations meant to hold colleges accountable for high-cost degree programs that do n't lead to gainful employment , partly because schools are busy wrangling a botched college financial aid application rollout whose glitches could linger into a future administration . <p> A Harris administration would also have to grapple with growing demands to reauthorize the federal laws that oversee higher education and K-12 -- and weigh whether to negotiate with Congress over new infusions of federal aid . <p> One of Harris ' first decisions on education would be whether to keep current Education Secretary Miguel Cardona , or bring new energy to the department 's ranks of political appointees . That choice may hinge on which party controls the Senate . <h> Miguel Cardona <p> Cardona is a veteran K-12 educator who quickly rose through the ranks in his home state of Connecticut . He had expressed an interest in staying on as Biden 's top educator before the president dropped out of the 2024 race , but faces criticism for an uneven tenure marked by deep political divides over American education . <h> Leslie Fenwick <p> Fenwick was a finalist for the Education secretary post in 2020 , when Bidenwon election . A former urban K-12 school teacher and administrator , Fenwick was part of a National Academy of Sciences committee thatevaluated mayoral control of Washington 's public school system . She also serves on thescholarly advisory committee for the Smithsonian 's National Museum of African American History and Culture . <p> Advertisement <h> Veterans Affairs Secretary <p> Veterans ' health care and benefits have n't been a top messaging issue for Harris , but the Biden-Harris administration helped a major expansion of benefits for veterans signed into law in 2022 . The PACT Act expanded benefits for veterans exposed to toxins , including burn pits , and has become a signature achievement for the administration . <p> In her platform , Harris pledged to " fully " fund VA health care and boost access to mental health care and opioid overdose prevention . The Biden administration 's VA has come under fire from Republicans for a policy that allows it to provide abortion counseling and some abortions in the wake of the Supreme Court 's Dobbs decision . <p> Whoever takes over the agency -- the country 's largest integrated health system responsible for the care of millions of veterans -- will face a number of difficult issues . <p> The challenges at the VA include financial strain stemming from the PACT Act , which has led the agency to care for more veterans than ever , resulting in billions of dollars in shortfalls . It also includes a modernization of the agency 's electronic health record system -- started by the Trump administration and continued by the Biden administration -- that has led to billions in cost overruns and significant delays and has been tied to at least four veterans ' deaths . That overhaul is on pause . Denis McDonough has served as VA secretary for the entire Biden administration . <h> Tanya Bradsher <p> Bradsher is a combat veteran who served 20 years in the U.S. Army and has been a spokesperson on the White House National Security Council and for the Pentagon . In early 2021 , McDonough chose her as chief of staff and last year was confirmed as deputy secretary . She 's been instrumental in implementing the PACT Act and has overseen the VA 's electronic health records overhaul . <p> Bradsher was confirmed in a 50-46 vote despite concerns from Republicans . Sen. Chuck Grassley ( R-Iowa ) has pointed to whistleblower testimony alleging she failed to properly oversee a correspondence system that he said mishandled veterans ' personal health information and showed " repeated indifference to congressional oversight . " Bradsher has said the system follows strict security guidelines and says the VA has bolstered security . <p> She 's seen as a potential favorite to replace McDonough if Harris wins . <h> Tammy Duckworth <p> Duckworth , a retired Army National Guard lieutenant colonel , lost both of her legs when the Blackhawk helicopter she was piloting was shot down in Iraq in 2004 . Two years later , she was appointed to run Illinois ' Department of Veterans Affairs . And in 2009 , Obama appointed her to serve as the VA 's assistant secretary of public and intergovernmental affairs . She has focused on veterans issues since being elected to Congress and is thought to be both interested in a Cabinet post and confirmable by a Republican senate . <h> Patrick Murphy <p> Murphy was the first Iraq War veteran to serve in the House , representing Pennsylvania 's 8th district from 2007 to 2011 . He was under secretary of the Army in the Obama administration and was a potential pick for VA secretary by President Joe Biden . <p> In Congress , Murphy helped repeal the " do n't ask , do n't tell " policy preventing LGBTQ+ people from serving openly . After the end of the Obama administration , he co-founded a software company , has served as a commissioner on the U.S. Cyberspace Solarium Commission 2.0 -- which Congress created to tackle cybersecurity -- and lecturer at the University of Pennsylvania 's Wharton School of business . <p> He was vice presidential candidate Tim Walz 's roommate when they were both in Congress and chairs a Biden administration task force to advance career opportunities for veterans and others connected to the military . He 's been on the campaign trail stumping for Harris . <h> Homeland Security Secretary <p> Homeland Security secretaries inevitably spend most of their time dealing with immigration and border security -- facing unstinting criticism from both Democrats and Republicans . Harris ' secretary would grapple with how to prioritize deportations , what kind of border security measures need to be taken -- or not taken -- and how to amp up fentanyl interception without slowing trans-national trade at the southern border . <p> Running DHS can be brutal for other reasons , too . The sprawling department houses a vast array of agencies and offices , many of which routinely court controversy . It was stood up after the September 11 attacks , but critics say it 's simply too big ( only the Pentagon has more employees ) . Its components include the Secret Service as well as FEMA , Border Patrol , and Immigration and Customs Enforcement . Hurricanes ? Cyber attacks ? Terrorist attacks ? Assassination attempts on leading presidential candidates ? Every single suspicious person who enters the U.S. illegally ? These are all the Homeland Security Secretary 's problems . <p> " A politician would be reluctant to take it , " one former DHS official told POLITICO , " because it 's hard to get out of there alive . " <h> John Tien <p> Tien was deputy secretary of Homeland Security from 2021 to 2023 , serving under DHS Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas . An Army veteran and Rhodes Scholar , he was a staffer on the National Security Council under Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama . <h> Ken Wainstein <p> Wainstein has deep experience in law enforcement , including stints as then-FBI Director Robert Mueller 's chief of staff , U.S. Attorney for Washington D.C. , and head of the Justice Department 's National Security Division . He now heads DHS 's in-house intelligence office , a small agency that has long drawn criticism for undermining civil liberties and producing low-quality work . Under Wainstein 's leadership , the office has largely dodged scandal . He has emphasized his commitment to maximizing the office 's value as a liaison between state and local law enforcement agencies and the United States Intelligence Community , as well as strengthening its commitment to protecting Americans ' rights . <h> Kristie Canegallo <p> Canegallo holds a senior role at DHS headquarters , and is a former National Security Council staffer under Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama . She rose to be White House Deputy Chief of Staff and then had a stint at Google . She returned to government during the Biden administration , as DHS chief of staff . Her remit included U.S. policy on asylum-seekers and border security . <h> White House Chief of Staff <p> Perhaps the most critical appointment Harris will make in the eyes of official Washington -- lawmakers , outside groups , lobbyists -- is figuring out a chief of staff to occupy that spacious corner office just down the hall from the Oval . <p> Biden 's two chiefs of staff have operated quite differently , from the keyboard warrior Ron Klain , who involved himself in everything , to the more technocratic Jeff Zients , a convener more comfortable delegating responsibilities down the org chart and known for wandering the West Wing with a baseball bat and popping into people 's offices unexpectedly . For Harris , who wo n't come with as many long-tenured senior aides , the job of managing the president 's time and information flow is especially critical . <p> Harris has long leaned on a kitchen cabinet of family members and close confidants , but many Democrats in touch with the transition believe it will be important for her to appoint a chief of staff with a high level of Washington experience . Lorraine Voles , her current chief of staff in the vice president 's office , meets that criteria and has been widely praised for steadying the ship over the last couple of years and is a key cog in the Harris operation . But she is not believed to be interested in serving as White House chief of staff should her boss win the election . That means that Harris could be settling into the world 's toughest job with someone new managing her operation . <h> Karen Dunn <p> Dunn , who oversaw Harris ' preparations for her one and only debate with Donald Trump , is a prominent trial lawyer in Washington . In leading several days of policy briefings and multiple mock debates -- while preparing to defend Google in a major antitrust case brought against it by the Justice Department -- Dunn demonstrated again several abilities that could make her a top candidate to be Harris ' chief of staff : managing complex processes and people , multi-tasking with several high-stakes matters , organizational dexterity and an acute understanding of politics , policy and Wasington itself . <h> Marty Walsh <p> During Walsh 's two-year stint as Biden 's Labor secretary , he had a famously good relationship with Harris . The former Boston mayor and union leader is clearly someone she trusts . Walsh played a key role in vetting Harris ' potential running mates , joining the three-person panel that conducted final interviews with the candidates . <p> Although Walsh lacks some of the Capitol Hill connections of previous chiefs of staff picks , he has management and government experience from his time as Boston mayor and Labor secretary that translate well into the chief of staff role . And he 's also well respected within labor circles ( he came up through the Boston building trades ) , which may be important if the Democrats continue to bleed union and blue-collar support in the 2024 election . <h> Cedric Richmond <p> The former New Orleans congressman , one of the first to urge Biden to run in 2020 , got to know Harris through the CBC when both were working on Capitol Hill . And after Biden made him the head of the Office of Public Engagement in 2021 , Richmond wound up being one of the vice president 's key allies in the West Wing . He was among the trusted aides who helped vet and interview Harris ' potential running mates in August and continues to be sought out for his counsel . " He just has excellent instincts and people tend to lean on him for advice , " one former administration official said . <p> Although Richmond has said publicly that he is happy back home in Louisiana , working in private practice and taking his son to school , those close to him believe he could be lured back into the West Wing should Harris win . That may ultimately be in more of a senior adviser or counselor role , but his name will be in the mix for the chief of staff job simply because there are few in Washington who Harris trusts more . <h> Laphonza Butler <p> The California senator , who was appointed last year to fill the seat left vacant after the death of Dianne Feinstein , will be out of a job come January . She has been a trusted surrogate for Harris in recent months and her management experience running Emily 's List and SEIU 's California Council could give her a case to make that she 'd be well suited to run operations in the West Wing . As with Richmond , an appointment as White House chief of staff would make her the first Black person to serve in the role . <h> Minyon Moore <p> Similarly , Moore would make history as a White House chief of staff . A close confidant of the vice president , she has long served as a sounding board and her work as chair of the Democratic convention in Chicago drew wide praise for how she handled the complicated transition when Harris took Biden 's spot atop the ticket a month before the convention . <p> Advertisement <h> Environmental Protection Agency Administrator <p> The role would be one of the more crucial positions for carrying out key parts of the Harris agenda . Her EPA chief will have to defend a slate of high-profile Biden administration regulations from legal attacks at a time when the Supreme Court is increasingly skeptical of environmental and climate regulation . <p> The agency is also tasked with doling out tens of billions of dollars to green programs under the Inflation Reduction Act and bipartisan infrastructure law . Harris will also likely be facing a Republican Senate , and confirming an EPA chief is already hard enough when Democrats control the chamber . Finding a compromise candidate may be a key consideration . <h> Michael Regan <p> Two consecutive terms as EPA administrator would be tough , but Carol Browner did it in the 1990s . Regan is widely expected to seek an exit from EPA after four years , but he and Harris have an unusual professional rapport that has served both of their agendas well . And when the president asks you to serve , it can be hard to say no . <p> There 's a bonus to Regan doing a second tour : no confirmation battle in the Senate . That could be a major plus , particularly if Republicans win control of the chamber . <h> Katrina Kessler <p> Appointed by Minnesota Gov . Tim Walz to the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency in 2021 , Kessler has been an active partner with the Biden administration on climate change , vehicle electrification , PFAS and other environmental priorities . Kessler spent much of her career in positions at MPCA and the city of Minneapolis and has deep experience in environmental policy and , now , managing a major state agency . <h> Collin O'Mara <p> O'Mara previously led the Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control , giving him experience at the state level and in the environmental movement . And he has ambitions -- he recently ran unsuccessfully for Delaware 's Democratic gubernatorial nomination . But it 's unclear whether being from Biden 's neck of the woods is good or bad for O'Mara 's chances , depending on how much Harris wants to break from the outgoing president . <h> United States Trade Representative <p> For decades , the trade representative was chiefly responsible for market-opening trade negotiations and led U.S. efforts on deals such as NAFTA and the founding of the World Trade Organization . But in recent years the focus has shifted away from market access and toward trade enforcement activities -- like levying tariffs -- and raising labor and environmental standards in the economies of U.S. trading partners . <p> How Harris will choose to deploy the U.S. trade chief remains an open question , as the vice president has shown little interest in market expansion and has close ties with U.S. labor unions that largely are skeptical of foreign trade deals . Biden 's trade chief , Katherine Tai , has preserved and expanded her predecessor 's tariffs on China , but has shown less interest in traditional trade negotiations , instead using U.S. economic influence to push countries to boost labor and environmental protections in their economy -- actions that remain incomplete Biden 's term comes to a close . <h> Rahm Emanuel <p> The former Obama White House chief of staff has been quietly angling for the USTR position throughout the Biden administration , but would represent a dramatic break from the current president 's trade-skeptic approach . The combative former Chicago mayor is keen to return to the free trading approach of his former boss and his predecessors , and would likely push Harris to begin new negotiations in the Indo-Pacific , as well as with other U.S. allies . His ability to get confirmed by the Senate , where he would face passionate opposition from Republicans and unions , remains an open question . <h> Nelson Cunningham <p> Cunningham , a Clinton-era trade official and former Senate staffer , would represent a return to a freer trade perspective that has been out of vogue in Washington for the past two administrations . He has long been angling for the USTR post , but could face confirmation issues in the Senate . Earlier this year , Biden tapped him for a deputy position at USTR , but key senators refused to take up his nomination , leaving the White House to shuffle him over to an adviser role at State . <h> Jayme White <p> White would represent a safe pick for the USTR post , having largely escaped the controversies and industry backlash that bedeviled his boss , Katherine Tai . The former Senate Finance Committee aide is well liked on Capitol Hill and in foreign trade circles , making his confirmation all but assured . And he represents a middle ground between the Biden administration 's trade skepticism and more free trade elements in the Democratic Party . White was also on the short list for the USTR post at the start of Biden 's term before being passed over for Tai . <p> CORRECTION : An earlier version of this report misidentified which state Sen. Catherine Cortez Masto represents . She represents Nevada . <h> Credits <h> Credits <p> Editing : Darius Dixon , David Siders and Andrew Milligan <p> Design and Development : Anna Wiederkehr and Abhinanda Bhattacharyya <p> Photos : AP , Getty , Maryland Department of Labor , U.S. Department of Energy , U.S. Department of Homeland Security , Minnesota Pollution Control Agency , U.S. Department of State , Office of the United States Trade Representative
