<h> Roslevan man kick-starts EU protest on Palestinian inaction <p> AN Ennis man who has been held at gunpoint by Israeli soldiers in Hebron , witnessing first hand what it is like for those living in Palestine , is among the organisers of a protest by EU civil servants in Brussels calling out the " inaction " of the bloc . Manus Carlisle , who grew up in Roslevan , and describes himself as a " proud Clare man " is an organiser of the ' EU Staff for Peace &amp; Justice ' campaign in Brussels . The campaign is made up of a large group of EU civil servants " who have been horrified by the violence taking place in Palestine and the inaction of the European Union in the face of the violence " , he explains . The group have collected over 1,700 signatures from EU civil servants expressing their growing concern over the ongoing crisis in Gaza . They have also demonstrated outside of their workplaces in the EU institutions in Brussels demanding an immediate and permanent cease-fire in Gaza , for the EU and its Member States to support the cases in the ICC @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constructive mediator role to put in place a Two State Solution . Manus , who went to Knockanean NS as a child , has been living in Brussels since his mid twenties working in international affairs . He has previously worked for Ireland South MEP Grace O'Sullivan ( GP ) , whose constituency included Clare , recalling , " we ran a number of human rights campaigns for Palestine and for human rights , including advocating for the Occupied Territories Bill " . He has travelled extensively in Palestine , spending his last two summers studying the Arabic language in the University of Bethlehem . He tells us , " My time spent in Palestine was formative , witnessing first hand the discriminatory practices used against Palestinians , the land grabs and the daily violence . My friends and I were held at gunpoint by Israeli soldiers in Hebron , we witnessed Israeli soldiers targeting Palestinian children in the street , and we saw the work of amazing organisations on the ground such as Acla ? , an Irish-run gym in one of Bethlehem 's refugee camps . " He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to watch from afar " . Explaining the idea behind the campaign he says , " now that I am working in the European institutions , it was frustrating to see the continued inaction of the European Union and its Member States as the death toll in Gaza rose into the tens of thousands . " The EU is built on the values of human rights and human dignity , which is why I am proud to work here , but I could n't see those values being applied when it came to stopping the violence in Gaza . And so , with hundreds of likeminded colleagues in the European Commission , Council and Parliament , we started a new group called ' EU Staff for Peace and Justice ' to call on our political leaders for more action to bring about peace in the Middle East . The demonstrations began in December 2023 and have continued outside the European institutions in Brussels now every fortnight . " There are usually between 100 and 200 people at every demonstration he tells us . " We have now raised signatures from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to continue as long as the war continues . " In particular , we are calling for an immediate ceasefire , for the EU and its Member States to support the cases in the ICC and ICJ , and for the EU to take a constructive mediator role to put in place a Two State Solution for Palestinians and Israelis to live in peace . " The reaction from colleagues and from the public " has been strong and positive " , he says , however he adds , " Unfortunately , many civil servants feel like they can not make their voices heard for fear of hurting their career prospects . " Indeed , the rules of our employment say that as civil servants , we must be ' loyal ' to the European institutions . "
