<h> Israel 's military said it was reacting to an immediate threat when it killed 15 medics and first responders in Gaza in March . But eyewitness accounts and an analysis of videos , audio and autopsy reports show that multiple soldiers fired over the course of six minutes at unarmed emergency workers who never posed a threat . <p> It 's almost 5 a.m. on March 23 in Rafah , southern Gaza . Two Red Crescent medics are out searching for a missing ambulance crew . Driving is Asaad al-Nasasra and sitting beside him and filming is Rifaat Radwan . Both have worked with the Red Crescent for years . Rifaat worries their missing colleagues have come under attack . They have n't heard from them for an hour . They will soon discover that Israeli soldiers have fired on the crew , killing two of them . Before long , Rifaat will also be killed along with 12 other staff from the Red Crescent , Civil Defense and the United Nations . The New York Times obtained Rifaat 's footage and reconstructed moment by moment how this unprovoked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recording from the scene . We reviewed autopsy reports and photos of the bodies and we interviewed eyewitnesses . Our investigation shows how Israeli soldiers fired repeatedly on unarmed medics , closed in around them and continued shooting for more than six minutes , even as several of the crew were still alive , wearing their uniforms and praying . Investigating itself , the I.D.F. has said there were professional failures and dismissed the deputy commander who was involved . But independent experts say that to knowingly attack medics is a breach of the laws of war . Days before the attack , Israel had broken the cease-fire in Gaza with intense airstrikes after negotiations with Hamas to release hostages broke down . Ground forces had moved into Rafah , and on the night in question , the I.D.F. says it set up an ambush on this road ahead of an evacuation order to flush out suspected militants when people moved . Red Crescent crews were working overnight to rescue casualties from a nearby airstrike . But when one crew goes missing , others , including Asaad and Rifaat , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they initially do n't see the missing ambulance . It had been passing by here just an hour earlier when the Israeli unit opened fire on it . They killed the two medics sitting in the front , Ezz al-Deen Shath and Mustafa Khafaja , and detained a third medic , Munther Abed , who survived . He told us what happened . Munther told us he was stripped and beaten . The I.D.F. said it thought the ambulance was a Hamas vehicle , and has long contended that Hamas uses ambulances to transport weapons and fighters . Back on the road , Rifaat and Asaad pass the Israeli soldiers without incident and meet up with other medics who were also out searching . Saleh Muammar , who was driving the other ambulance , says he spotted bodies on the ground . They ready the ambulances to return , but Saleh worries they will be attacked if they move ahead without more vehicles . A Civil Defense ambulance and fire engine joined them . And they continue on as a convoy . Overhead , an Israeli drone is watching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told soldiers on the ground the convoy was advancing suspiciously , but they are clearly marked as emergency services . And the vehicles are flashing their lights , which soldiers could see , the I.D.F. later told us . The medics pull in . Around 20 I.D.F. soldiers are positioned here , 100 feet off the roadside . Almost all of the first responders are clearly marked in reflective gear . They are unarmed and moving away from the I.D.F. Rifaat sees his colleagues bodies . As they rush to rescue them , they 're met by a hail of gunfire . gunshots Rifaat scrambles to the driver 's side and is shielded for now by the ambulance . He begins to pray . In total , Rifaat films almost six minutes of gunfire . We produced a condensed timeline that gives an insight into the I.D.F. 's actions . After the first barrage comes a 20-second pause . Rifaat repeats the Shahada -- a declaration of faith that Muslims also say as they face death . An ambulance tries to escape . But another hail of gunfire erupts . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Another pause . First responders can be heard screaming . Then another barrage from multiple rifles . None of these medics are armed , and all of the fire is coming from the I.D.F. A long pause , Rifaat asks his mother 's forgiveness . Steady gunfire , closer to Rifaat , now , for the full minute . An ambulance is shot at . Medics were still inside some of the vehicles . One of them , Ashraf Abu Labda -- phones a Red Crescent dispatcher who records the call . We synchronized Ashraf 's call with Rifaat 's video to better understand what they both were seeing . Israeli soldiers appear to approach , shouting in Hebrew , but it 's unclear what they 're saying . Both Ashraf and Rifaat see them around the same time . From Ashraf 's phone call , slow , deliberate shots are heard now . An Israeli soldier orders his troops . Ashraf hangs up . Amid the emergency vehicles , Rifaat 's phone is positioned here . Three audio experts who analyzed his recording determined that the soldiers begin shooting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ witnesses saw the I.D.F. positioned and where it built sand barricades . As the shooting continues , the gunfire closes in to within 60 , 50 and then 40 feet of Rifaat by Minute 6 of the attack . Drone footage the I.D.F. showed The Times confirms that the soldiers moved in . Rifaat was still alive at this time . He was shot multiple times , his autopsy showed . And inside this ambulance , Ashraf was also alive . He was shot in the chest . A witness with a clear view of what happened , Saeed al-Bardawil , a civilian who was detained and held with the I.D.F. troops before the attack on the convoy . Saeed says that I.D.F. reinforcements later came , and then soldiers shot first responders as they lay on the ground . Minutes after the shooting , a clearly marked United Nations vehicle happened on the scene . The I.D.F. fired on it too , killing Kamal Shahtout , a U.N . employee who was on his way to rescue colleagues injured in another attack . Saeed says he saw the I.D.F. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said this was not done to conceal the attack , but in The Times 's experience of reporting on its actions in Gaza , burying bodies and vehicles is not something the I.D.F. normally does . Crushing the vehicles was an operational error , the I.D.F. told us . " Why did you hide the bodies ? Why and why ? They have to answer for that . " Younis Al-Khatib , the head of the Red Crescent , told us that for the next five days he begged the I.D.F. for information on the whereabouts of their missing staff . But the I.D.F. would n't answer . Finally , the U.N. , Red Crescent and Civil Defense got access to the site . It took two days to recover the medics ' bodies and vehicles . The Times reviewed autopsies and photographs of the bodies , which showed that most of the victims died from multiple gunshot wounds , including to the neck and torso . Three of the Civil Defense team were shot in the head . A Civil Defense helmet found there showed apparent bullet holes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bulldozers burying them , and almost all of the Red Crescent and Civil Defense were wearing their uniforms in part or in whole . Since the attack , Israel has given shifting versions of events that the evidence contradicts . It initially said the medics were advancing suspiciously , but they never posed a threat . It said that the vehicles were without headlights or emergency signals , but changed that story two weeks later when The Times published Rifaat 's video . It said the area was a combat zone . It was n't until the I.D.F. declared it so hours after the attack . It named and said it killed a Hamas participant in Oct. 7 . His family told us he 's alive in Gaza and he has no connection to the Red Crescent or Civil Defense . And it took weeks for the I.D.F. to admit it was detaining Asaad al-Nasasra , the medic driving alongside Rifaat , who survived . He was released after 37 days , having been denied access to a lawyer and his family . The I.D.F. has now released the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a series of operational misunderstandings that started with misidentifying the first ambulance as a Hamas vehicle , and believing the convoy were Hamas reinforcements . It said Hamas has previously used ambulances . It said the deputy battalion commander , the most senior officer present , was the first to open fire on the convoy . He has been dismissed . But once the shooting started , the other soldiers followed procedure , the I.D.F. told us , even as they fired for six minutes unchallenged . Experts in the laws of war , including Janina Dill of Oxford University , told us that attacking medics who pose no threat is a likely war crime . Another expert , who has long studied attacks on health care , says this is not an isolated incident . " This incident was part of a much larger pattern where U.N . convoys , Doctors Without Borders , ambulances , humanitarian vehicles , have all been shot at multiple times with many people killed and injured . " The I.D.F. is satisfied that nothing needs to change in its orders to soldiers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this attack were from the Golani Brigade 's elite reconnaissance unit . A recent speech made by a commander of that brigade is an example of the types of orders those soldiers may receive . Even after 50,000 people have been killed in Gaza , this attack drew international condemnation . The agencies the slain medics worked for rejected the I.D.F. 's findings , and have called for an independent investigation . <h> Israel 's military said it was reacting to an immediate threat when it killed 15 medics and first responders in Gaza in March . But eyewitness accounts and an analysis of videos , audio and autopsy reports show that multiple soldiers fired over the course of six minutes at unarmed emergency workers who never posed a threat .
