<p> -MOSCOW , RUSSIA - MAY 27 , 2025 : Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said on Tuesday that the Turkish metropolis Istanbul could host the second round of direct negotiations between Moscow and Kyiv to find a settlement for the ongoing Ukraine war . " As for the second round of negotiations between Russia and Ukraine , if you ask me , I would again turn to our Turkish friends . Istanbul is very good , " Lavrov said during a joint news conference following talks with Turkish Foreign Minister Hakan Fidan in Moscow . T ? rkiye facilitated the first direct talks between Russia and Ukraine in three years in Istanbul on May 16 , where the two sides agreed to a large-scale exchange of prisoners involving a total of 1,000 people from each side and to continue negotiations for a truce . The two foreign ministers met on the second day of Fidan 's working visit to Moscow where he previously met with Russian presidential aide Vladimir Medinsky , leader of the Russian delegation at the Russia-Ukraine talks held in Istanbul on May 16 , and Russian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rkiye 's readiness for negotiations and extended Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan 's support for the process . - Situation in Gaza and West Bank is ' unacceptable ' Lavrov also said Ankara and Moscow share a unified position with regard to the situation in Gaza , describing the violence in the besieged strip and the West Bank as " unacceptable . " Both Lavrov and Fidan stated their concern for the humanitarian crisis in Gaza , with Fidan stressing that the " genocide in Gaza must stop at once , otherwise a chaos that can engulf Israel will be unstoppable . " " This much pain , blood , and tears will not be without consequence . This must stop at once . Humanity and the international community must show a wholehearted effort to pass the humanitarian trial it has failed . We will continue working with Russia in this regard , " said Fidan. - Support for Syrian sovereignty The Turkish foreign minister also stated the common support of T ? rkiye and Russia for Syria 's sovereignty and unity while working to achieve stability and welfare . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have taken place in the past five months in terms of establishing political and economic stability and security in Syria . He emphasized that despite the ongoing " disinformation campaigns , " Syria has largely secured the support of both the public and the international community . Fidan also noted that Syria is continuously improving its capabilities and resources in the fight against terrorism and organized crime . Stressing that T ? rkiye supports efforts to unite all military groups in Syria under a national army and a central command , Fidan stressed the importance of all relevant parties using their influence to ensure the implementation of the memorandum signed on March 10 between Syrian President Ahmad al-Sharaa and Farhad Abdi Shaheen . Fidan underlined that the decisions taken by the US and EU to lift sanctions on Syria are extremely important . He expressed great satisfaction with the results of the intensive diplomatic efforts led by Turkish President Erdogan to ensure the lifting of these sanctions .
