<h> Share <p> Elon Musk announced he was exiting President Donald Trump 's administration , Trump 's tentpole policies received favorable rulings in court , the president handed out a slew of pardons , the administration began cracking down on student visas and a ceasefire was proposed in the Israel-Hamas war.Here are the top stories from the U.S. government this past week.Musk departs DCElon Musk attended an Oval Office press conference Friday alongside President Donald Trump to announce Musk 's ending tenure in the administration.Musk sported a black eye at the press conference . Here is the story behind that.Musk 's effort to dramatically cut government spending is expected to fall short of his early pronouncements . Here 's a look at what he accomplished with DOGE.Earlier in the week , Musk notably criticized Trump 's " big beautiful " spending bill , which is still being debated in the Senate.Video below : Musk , Trump appear in Oval Office as the billionaire entrepreneur exits the administrationCourt rulings favor Trump The Supreme Court on Friday again cleared the way for the Trump administration to strip temporary legal protections from hundreds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down Trump 's sweeping tariffs , a federal appeals court reinstated them as they continue through the judicial system.The Supreme Court backed a multibillion-dollar oil railroad expansion in Utah Thursday in a ruling that scales back the use of a key environmental law.Video below : President Trump 's tariff fight fuels small business uncertaintyIn other newsTrump handed out a slew of pardons this week , including reality TV stars Todd and Julie Chrisley , rapper NBA Youngboy , a governor who resigned amid a corruption scandal , a New York Republican who resigned from Congress after a tax fraud conviction , a labor union leader on the eve of sentencing for failing to report gifts and a Virginia sheriff convicted on bribery charges.The U.S. has temporarily halted new visa interviews for international students , citing safety concerns , which could impact local economies and colleges financially.Secretary of State Marco Rubio says the U.S. will begin revoking the visas of Chinese students , " including those with connections to the Chinese Communist Party or studying in critical fields . " Israel has accepted a new U.S. proposal for a temporary ceasefire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has not given an answer yet.Earlier in the week , Israeli strikes killed at least 52 people in the Gaza Strip , including 36 in a school-turned-shelter that was struck as people slept , setting their belongings ablaze.A key U.S. inflation gauge slowed last month as Trump 's tariffs did not noticeably push up prices , while American incomes jumped.The average rate on a 30-year mortgage in the U.S. rose this week to its highest level since early February.Trump says he is considering privatizing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac mortgages , raising concerns among economists about potential increases in housing costs.Trump said he 's going to double the tariff rate on steel to 50% during a rally in Pittsburgh , where he announced Nippon Steel 's investment in U.S. Steel.The White House will fix errors in a much-anticipated federal government report spearheaded by U.S. Health and Human Services Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr.Former President Joe Biden made his first public remarks since his cancer diagnosis at a Memorial Day event in Delaware.Video below : Biden gives first public remarks since cancer diagnosis <p> Elon Musk announced he was exiting President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favorable rulings in court , the president handed out a slew of pardons , the administration began cracking down on student visas and a ceasefire was proposed in the Israel-Hamas war .
