<h> Pakistani nation stands with Palestinians : minister <p> LAHORE - Chairman of the Prime Minister 's Youth Programme Rana Mashhood Ahmad Khan on Saturday reaffirmed Pakistan 's unwavering support for the people of Palestine.Speaking at a rally organized by the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz ( PML-N ) to express solidarity with Palestinians and appreciation for electricity bill relief measures by the government , he said that nationwide protests continued against Israeli brutality . He emphasized that Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif had raised a strong voice for the oppressed Muslims of Gaza on all international platforms . " No government in the past has defended Palestinian rights as boldly as the current leadership , " he said , adding that the prime minister even boycotted the Israeli Prime Minister 's speech at the United Nations.Rana Mashhood said that PM Shehbaz Sharif 's people-friendly policies had brought down electricity bills and inflation , offering relief to the common man . He criticized the PTI 's IMF programme , blaming it for worsening the economic conditions of the masses.He recalled that under Nawaz Sharif 's leadership in 2017 , Pakistan had ended its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . However , a political conspiracy toppled the government , pushing the country toward economic collapse.Rana Mashhood praised the efforts of PM Shehbaz Sharif during his term to prevent default , calling it a selfless act to save the state . " Today , Pakistan is once again moving on the path to progress , " he stated . He lauded Punjab Chief Minister Maryam Nawaz for launching daily relief initiatives and said the government was committed to fulfilling all promises made to the people during the elections . <p> " Inflation is at its lowest , and the upcoming budget will bring further relief . " <p> International investors were also showing interest in Pakistan 's mineral sector due to improved governance and investor-friendly policies , he added . <p> The rally , attended by hundreds , began at Shera Kot and concluded at Chauburji Chowk . Prominent coordinators of the PML-N Muhammad Akbar , Javed Sarwar Bhatti , Yamin Mughal , Moon Shah , and Waqar Bhatti were also present .
