<h> Pakistan Unites <p> Overseas Pakistanis are a vital pillar of the national economy -- contributing not just remittances that rival the total value of Pakistan 's exports , but also serving as cultural and diplomatic bridges between Pakistan and the rest of the world . Their presence strengthens Pakistan 's soft power , opens doors to foreign innovation and opportunity , and weaves the country more tightly into the global fabric . In this context , Prime Minister Shahbaz Sharif 's announcement of a comprehensive package of incentives -- including special courts , tax remissions , job quotas , and skill development programmes -- is both timely and necessary . <p> While the contents of this initiative will surely be covered in detail in the days to come , the passionate speech of Chief of Army Staff General Syed Asim Munir at the event brought an air of resolve to the proceedings the likes of which have not been seen before . <p> While honouring the gathered overseas Pakistanis not only as ambassadors of Pakistan , but as " the very light that illuminates the world , " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asserting that this process is brain gain , as the value of these expatriates flows back to Pakistan . What followed was a powerful message to the inimical forces operating within Pakistan -- Pakistan will prevail . Balochistan was asserted as the crown jewel of the country , Kashmir as its jugular . Challenging foreign forces and people who try to discredit the military , the COAS declared that as long as the people stand with the Pakistan Armed Forces , no harm can come to the country . All the while , the pain and suffering of the Muslims of Gaza is kept at the heart of Pakistan . This sense of patriotism and duty was reflected in the crowd -- which burst out in slogans of " Pakistan Zindabad . " <p> This resolute feeling of connection with Pakistan is what many expatriates are estranged from , especially after living several generations away from their homeland . This address will live long in the memory of overseas Pakistanis -- but also in the memory of its enemies .
