<h> Six resolutions passed amid uproar in Punjab Assembly <h> House condemns Israeli aggression in Gaza , calls for an end to genocide of Palestinians <p> LAHORE - The 24th session of the Punjab Assembly on Tuesday saw the passage of six key resolutions , with lawmakers unanimously condemning Israeli aggression in Gaza and calling for an immediate end to the ongoing genocide of Palestinians . In a strongly worded resolution , the Assembly denounced Israeli atrocities and urged the federal government to play a proactive role in halting the violence . The resolution also called on the government to raise the issue forcefully at the platform of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation ( OIC ) , underlining the urgency of international intervention to protect innocent lives . Another resolution emphasised the need to grant special incentives and protections to overseas Pakistanis . Members of the Assembly highlighted the critical role of the diaspora in Pakistan 's economy and called for streamlined processes for investment , property ownership , remittances , and business activities in Punjab . In a bid to promote tourism and hospitality , the Assembly approved a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ premises of Lahore 's Gaddafi Stadium . Legislators noted that such a development would elevate the stadium 's global standing , support international sporting events , and boost the local economy through high-end tourism infrastructure . Other resolutions included a demand for declaring Chak Faizabad in tehsil Depalpur as a separate village , aimed at improving administrative efficiency and service delivery . Another resolution called for higher taxation on tobacco products to discourage smoking and promote public health . The Assembly also addressed taxation issues at Sialkot International Airport , urging reforms to improve transparency and facilitate business operations . The proceedings , however , were marred by usual protest by the opposition members . Enraged by limitations on their floor time , the opposition members stood on their seats , shouted slogans and disrupted the session . Speaker Malik Ahmad Khan emphasised the role of the Assembly as the representative house of Punjab , urging the opposition to raise questions on national security issues such as the labourers ' killings . The session was convened on the requisition of the Opposition . Tuesday 's sitting of the Assembly began @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It opened with prayers for the departed souls of MPA Chaudhry Arshad Javed Warraich , Senator Taj Haider , and eight laborers killed in Iran . Pakistan Peoples Party 's MPA Mumtaz Chang launched a fresh tirade against the District Police Officer ( DPO ) of Rahim Yar Khan , demanding his suspension . He alleged that police raids at his residence -- twice since Eid -- were politically motivated and not authorised by the chief minister . Chang claimed the DPO was acting in revenge after the suspension of certain officers over land issues in the Kacha area . During the Question Hour , Parliamentary Secretary for School Education Nausheen Adnan acknowledged a shortage of teaching staff across Punjab 's public schools . She , however , assured the house that 12,000 teaching and non-teaching positions would be filled over the next two months . During a heated discussion on law and order in Balochistan , Speaker Ahmad Khan suggested dedicating an entire day to debate the province 's situation to allow all voices to be heard .
