<h> CM announces activation of Punjab Livestock Card from December 15 <h> CM stresses integrated strategy to protect environment <p> LAHORE - Punjab Chief Minister Maryam Nawaz Sharif Wednesday announced the activation of ' Punjab Livestock Card ' from December 15 as 80,000 farmers across Punjab will benefit from the project . " Punjab 's first unique Livestock Card will be activated on 15 December , " said the chief minister while directing the authorities concerned to start an historic scheme for the livestock farmers in Punjab in a few months . She further stated that Punjab farmers will be on the path of development and progress after the launch of this unprecedented project . " She highlighted , " Registration for the Chief Minister Maryam Nawaz Sharif livestock card has started . 80,000 farmers across Punjab will benefit from the project . " Madam chief minister said , " Through the CM Livestock Card , one can purchase ' Wanda ' , mineral mixture and silage from registered dealers . " She added , " Cattle farmers will be able to get an interest-free loan of Rs 27,000 per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able to get an interest-free loan of up to Rs 2 lakh 70 thousand for their cattle . " Chief Minister Maryam Nawaz Sharif said , " Livestock farmers will get loans in 04 months equal installments . Payment of loan will start after 04 months . " She added , " Livestock farmers can register for the said card by visiting the nearest veterinary hospital . " She flagged , " A message for the purpose can be sent to 8070 with the PLC and ID card number of the farmer . A Helpline 0800-09211 has also been activated for the convenience of potential applicants . " Madam chief minister said , " All measures are being taken for the economic independence of every farmer living in villages of Punjab . " She added , " We will fully support the farmers and cattle growers of Punjab . " She noted , " The journey of development has started . We will make everybody its stakeholder . " Meanwhile , Punjab Chief Minister Maryam Nawaz Sharif has called for adoption of a sustainable and integrated strategy to protect the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ensure a secure future . In her message on the ' International Day for Preventing Exploitation of the Environment in War and Armed Conflict ' , she said that wars and conflict cause not only the loss of human lives but also destruction of precious environment . She added , " In Gaza and other areas , not only people , but the environment are being destroyed by the war . " The chief minister highlighted that during times of conflict , " environmental and natural resources are brutally looted " , noting the severe consequences armed conflicts have on ecosystems.She emphasised that armed conflicts lead to deforestation , increased pollution of water and air , and a loss of soil fertility , and pointed out that flora and fauna also suffer the devastating impacts of these conflicts .
