<p> Islamabad , Pakistan : Army Chief General Syed Asim Munir has reiterated that without comprehensive laws and regulations , false and misleading information and hate speech will continue to destabilize the political and social structure of Pakistan.He was addressing a special ceremony of Margalla Dialogue 2024 held in Islamabad . The Army Chief spoke on the topic of " Pakistan 's Role in Peace and Stability " and highlighted the significant achievements in advancing regional harmony and international peace and elaborated on the following points : <p> In recent years , the world has faced many challenges , among which the rapid spread of false and misleading information is a major challenge . Given the many changes in the world , the increasing influence of non-state actors is also a major challenge . Enormous changes are taking place in the economy , military and technology at the global level . Violent non-state actors and state-sponsored terrorism are a major challenge at the global level . Where technology has played a significant role in the spread of information , the spread of misleading and incorrect information is a major challenge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ information and hate speech will continue to destabilize the political and social structure . Without rules and regulations , freedom of expression is leading to the decline of moral values in all societies . Inequality , intolerance and division on religious , sectarian and ethnic grounds are increasing at the global level . Our common goals include tackling climate change , the fight against terrorism and global health . Major challenges Pakistan is facing is terrorism and Pakistan is playing its important role for peace and stability in the world and the region to mitigate terrorism as it is a common challenge for all humanity . Our resolve in the fight against terrorism is unwavering . A comprehensive border management regime has been established to secure our western borders as Khawarij ( TTP ) using the western land . Pakistan expects the Afghan interim government to not allow Afghan soil to be used against terrorism and will take strict measures in this regard . The determination to stabilize the region is an important component of the National Action Plan , which aims to eliminate terrorism and extremism . Due to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the US , UK and Canada , are not safe from India 's atrocities and also in Indian Occupied Jammu and Kashmir . A solution to Jammu and Kashmir is inevitable in accordance with the UN resolutions and the aspirations of the Kashmiri people . Pakistan has always called for a ceasefire in Gaza and Lebanon . Pakistan has sent humanitarian aid to Gaza and Lebanon several times . Pakistan has always stressed the establishment of an independent Palestinian state . We will not be a part of any global conflict but will continue to play our role for peace and stability in the world . 235,000 Pakistanis have played their role in UN peacekeeping missions for the sake of global peace . 181 Pakistanis have sacrificed their lives in UN peacekeeping missions for the sake of global peace . Pakistan is a country of 240 million people , of which approximately 63% of the population is below the age of 30 . Pakistan is rich in immense natural resources . Pakistan has emerged as a major country in the world in terms of agricultural production . Pakistan has large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major country in the world in terms of Due to all these reserves , unique geographical location , and seaport , Pakistan is of utmost importance for trade in Europe , Central Asia , and the Middle East . Pakistan has always played a positive role in regional and global peace .
