<p> WHILE some powerful states are shielding Israel from censure , the court of global opinion is quite clear : there is enough evidence to support punitive action against the Zionist state for its flagrant campaign of extermination of the Palestinian people , which it launched in Gaza over a year ago . This has been validated by the arrest warrants issued against Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and ex-war chief Yoav Gallant by the International Criminal Court . The Hague-based court also issued a warrant for Hamas leader Mohammed Deif . The ICC believes that both Mr Netanyahu and Mr Gallant bear responsibility for the war crime of starvation as well as murder as the Israeli forces -- under their command -- have relentlessly and ruthlessly pounded the Palestinians of Gaza in the aftermath of the Oct 7 events . The reactions of the international community have been mixed to this largely symbolic decision . The US , Israel 's principal patron , has expectedly rallied to its ally 's defence , with President Joe Biden calling the ICC 's move " outrageous " . Incidentally , Mr Biden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vladimir Putin , linked to the Ukraine war , last year . This again proves that for powerful states in the global community , the law is only reserved for enemies ; for friends the sky is the limit . Yet some within the Western fraternity too , including Canada , Ireland and Spain , have said they will comply with the ICC warrant against the Israeli leaders . This is the right thing to do as the law must apply equally to all -- friends and foes . <p> While it is unlikely that the Israeli leaders will be arrested , there is little doubt that one day Tel Aviv 's warmongers should be brought to justice for the immense humanitarian suffering that they have unleashed in occupied Palestine . Moreover , there should be international proceedings against Israel for its bloodthirsty assault on the people of Lebanon . Unless Israel 's leaders face the law for their crimes against humanity , violent regimes around the world will only be encouraged to disregard international norms .
