@@51494357 <h> Crawford Kilian <p> I still have an atlas or two , acquired long before Google Maps , showing the world of the Cold War : a divided Germany , a united Yugoslavia , a Soviet Union with its meaningless constituent " republics . " <p> And when I went to school in the 1940s and ' 50s , my classrooms always had maps of the world with great swatches and patches of pink across North America , Africa and South Asia : the colonies and dominions of the postwar British Empire as it awkwardly tried to become a Commonwealth . Those were also the days of " French Indochina " and " French West Africa , " usually rendered in purple . <p> Borders may be literally set in stone -- or at least in concrete and concertina wire . But first they 're set on paper , whether by negotiation or decree , and they can be changed the same way . <p> Think of Iraq , a completely artificial state carved out of the corpse of the Ottoman Empire after the First World War . Britain wanted a congenial monarchy with which to reward some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bell , a remarkable woman who was an expert on the Middle East , an archaeologist and a spy . Bell 's borders have endured for almost a century ( the monarchy was ousted in 1958 ) . <p> Every generation likes to think it 's reached some peak of ethical perfection ; every generation 's descendants think the same thing about themselves , and wince at their forebears ' folly and ignorance . <p> If we ever wonder what our grandchildren will despise us for , one failure has been staring us in the face for over three years : the plight of Syria 's refugees . <p> Street protests in March 2011 seemed at first like an encouraging part of the Arab Spring : popular demonstrations that could soon lead to the ouster of Bashar al-Assad and the establishment of some kind of democratic state in his place . We could applaud from the sidelines without even having to commit any military forces , as we had in Libya when it was overthrowing Colonel Gadhafi . <p> Instead , Assad turned out to be a far tougher dictator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a standstill , while driving seven million Syrians out of their homes . About two and a half million of them have fled the country . <p> Most of those have gone to neighbouring Lebanon , Jordan , and Turkey . Smaller numbers have reached Iraq , Egypt , and Algeria ; a thousand Syrians have even ended up in Gaza . <p> Vicente Fox , the ex-president of Mexico , recently called for the legalization of not only marijuana , but of all drugs . <p> " Legalization of not just marijuana , but all drugs , is the right thing to do , " he wrote in an opinion piece published in the Globe and Mail : <p> " The dramatic war on drugs in Mexico , in which tens of thousands of young Mexicans have been killed , is proof of prohibition 's failure . These people were not born criminals ; they did not possess criminality in their genes . And yet because of a flawed public policy , because of lack of education and disinformation , because of lack of better economic incentives and opportunities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enemy we can never defeat with the current prohibitions in place . <p> " If we were to adopt a policy of sound regulation in conjunction with the decriminalization of drugs , then we would have the money ( through fees and taxes ) to operate education and regulatory initiatives -- as opposed to all of the money from the drug trade being controlled by the drug cartels and the criminals who run them . And we would n't have to carry the immense burden of the cost of the war on drugs itself . " <p> Mike Duffy 's speech on the floor of the Senate Tuesday evening was one of the most momentous in Canadian history . <p> After months of accusations , insinuations and mockery , one of the most despised politicians in the country stood up and struck back . As a lifelong political journalist , Duffy must know that when you strike at a king ( or a prime minister ) , you must strike to kill . He has done his considerable best . <p> However gratifying Tuesday 's events must be to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they raise one baffling question : How has Stephen Harper flourished for all these years , both as prime minister and before , when his political judgment is patently terrible ? 
@@51494771 <h> Canada backs Israel in ICC challenge <p> Canada has submitted a letter to the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) reiterating its position on Palestine , in a case in which Israel asked for Ottawa 's support . <p> The letter , submitted to The Hague-based ICC on Feb. 14 , repeats the policy that Canada does not recognize a Palestinian state , and that the court has no jurisdiction in the case now before it . <p> Global Affairs said it does not release " this type of correspondence . " But The CJN was told it is the same official position on Palestine that Canada submitted to the ICC in 2015 and again in 2018 . <p> The latest case began in December , when the ICC 's chief prosecutor , Fatou Bensouda , issued a preliminary report that called for an investigation into Israeli soldiers for war crimes perpetrated against Palestinians . <p> " I am satisfied that there is a reasonable basis to proceed with an investigation into the situation in Palestine , " wrote Bensouda , adding , " In brief , I am satisfied that war crimes have been or are being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Gaza Strip . " <p> The allegations include " disproportionate attacks " and " wilful killing and wilfully causing serious injury to body or health " by Israeli troops . As well , the report said Israeli authorities may have committed war crimes relating to " the transfer of Israeli civilians into the West Bank " since 2014 . <p> Bensouda also pointed to evidence of war crimes by Hamas and other armed Palestinian groups . <p> She asked three ICC judges to first rule on whether the court has jurisdiction in the territories she cited . <p> " Canada 's long-standing position is that it does not recognize a Palestinian state and therefore does not recognize the accession of such a state to international treaties , " Guillaume B ? rub ? , a spokesperson for Global Affairs Canada , told The CJN in an email . <p> " In the absence of a Palestinian state , it is Canada 's view that the ( ICC ) does not have jurisdiction in this matter under international law , " B ? rub ? added . <p> He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statehood in her request to the ICC panel looking into jurisdiction . <p> " As a friend and ally of Israel and friend of the Palestinian people , Canada is firmly committed to the goal of a comprehensive , just and lasting peace in the Middle East , including the creation of a Palestinian state living side by side in peace and security with Israel , achieved through direct negotiations between the parties , " B ? rub ? stated . <p> Netanyahu called the report " unfounded and dangerous , " and said the ICC has no jurisdiction to investigate because Palestine does not meet the criteria of statehood . <p> Trudeau 's response to Netanyahu , if any , has not been made public . <p> There has been widespread support for Israel in the case . At least six countries -- Austria , the Czech Republic , Germany , Hungary , Brazil and Uganda -- have filed petitions to become " friends of the court , " or interveners in the matter . With that status , they would be permitted to offer their views and submit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has not sought intervener status . <p> Israeli Foreign Minister Yisrael Katz tweeted on Feb. 14 that Israel " views favourably the fact that important countries ... express a clear position that the ICC does not have the authority to discuss the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . " <p> The tribunal that will rule on the court 's jurisdictional reach has invited " Palestine , Israel and victims in the situation in the State of Palestine " to submit written views by March 16 . <p> Palestine has been a member of the ICC since 2015 , while Israel is not a member and does not recognize the court 's jurisdiction . Still , it has mounted a fierce public campaign against the latest development . <p> Should the court agree that Palestine is not a formal state under international law , the ICC would not be able to hear the case . <p> Canada 's financial contribution to the ICC will be $10.6 million this year . 
@@51497897 <p> Rogers Media uses cookies for personalization , to customize its online advertisements , and for other purposes . Learn more or change your cookie preferences . Rogers Media supports the Digital Advertising Alliance principles . By continuing to use our service , you agree to our use of cookies . <p> We use cookies ( why ? ) You can change cookie preferences . Continued site use signifies consent . <h> Halt of Muslim pilgrimage over virus brings worldwide dismay <p> by Fares Akram And Joseph Krauss , The Associated Press <p> Posted Feb 27 , 2020 12:07 pm EDT <p> GAZA , Palestinian Territory -- For years , Ibrahim al-Dabba has been saving up money to make the umrah pilgrimage to Islam 's holiest sites in Saudi Arabia , which for many Palestinians is the only way to leave the impoverished and isolated Gaza Strip . <p> He registered with a tourism agency back in September , hoping to make the journey next month . But on Thursday , Saudi authorities took the unprecedented step of halting the pilgrimage over a virus outbreak that has infected more than 82,000 people worldwide and caused more than 2,800 deaths @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ around the world to postpone or cancel a journey that many have eagerly awaited for years . The outbreak could potentially affect the much larger annual hajj pilgrimage , set to begin in late July . <p> For the 2 million Palestinians in Gaza , the Saudi decision closes one of the last avenues for leaving the narrow coastal strip , which has been ruled by the Islamic militant group Hamas and blockaded by Israel and Egypt since 2007 . The blockade , along with three wars and countless skirmishes between Palestinian militants and Israel , has devastated the local economy and spawned widespread despair . <p> An umrah pilgrimage from Gaza starts at around $1,300 , a huge sum in a territory with 50% unemployment . Some Gazans sell jewelry or property to pay for it . <p> " We are imprisoned in Gaza , and for us , visiting Mecca and Medina feels like a prisoner receiving a visit from his family , " said al-Dabba , who had hoped to depart with his two sisters on March 8 . " There , we release all the repression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Umm Khalil was supposed to travel out with the same group and has been eagerly awaiting the pilgrimage for more than a year . But on Thursday she raced to the travel agency to get her money back . <p> " We are n't afraid of the virus because no one dies short of his fated lifetime , " she said . " But after the suspension everything came to a halt and we felt sad . " <p> The pain of missing out on the pilgrimage is particularly acute in Gaza , but is shared by Muslims worldwide . <p> Some languish for years on waiting lists to take part in the larger hajj pilgrimage , which all Muslims are required to make once in their lives if they are able . For many , the lesser umrah pilgrimage , which can be made year-round , is the only opportunity to walk in the footsteps of the Prophet Muhammad and circle the black , cube-shaped Kaaba , the holiest site in Islam . <p> Frustration boiled over at Cairo International Airport in Egypt , where thousands of pilgrims @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces had to bring in reinforcements and erect barriers in the terminal to hold back angry passengers . The officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to brief media . <p> In Indonesia , the world 's most populous Muslim nation , thousands of pilgrims were forced to postpone or cancel their trips at the last minute . <p> Achmad Warsito , one of many passengers grounded at Jakarta 's Soekarno-Hatta international airport , said the pilgrimage had been a long-awaited journey for him and his family . <p> " No words can describe how I feel today , " he said . " We are very sad and disappointed . " <p> Yado Yarismano , an airport spokesman , said more than 2,700 Indonesian pilgrims were unable to fly out of Jakarta on Thursday alone . He said more than 1,100 others were left stranded en route to Saudi Arabia at airports in Malaysia and Singapore . <p> Indonesia has asked to be exempt from the suspension because it has not reported any infections , though there have been suspected cases . It even summoned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ virus has spread rapidly , with confirmed cases in 50 countries on six continents . <p> It spreads relatively easily from person to person , and carriers can go days without showing any symptoms , contributing to its rapid spread . Allowing thousands of pilgrims from all parts of the world to gather in crowded spaces for several days before returning home would risk accelerating the spread of the disease . <p> The ban will impose major costs of its own , in the form of empty hotels and businesses in the holy cities of Mecca and Medina . Many travel agencies in Muslim countries deal exclusively with pilgrims and are likely to take a major hit . The cancellation of the five-day hajj pilgrimage , which annually attracts more than 2 million people , would be even more cataclysmic . <p> In the meantime , some pilgrims took the ban in stride , saying they were too scared to go anyway . <p> " We were afraid of this trip because of the spread of this disease . " said Alaa Hamarneh , who lives in Jordan 's capital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ umrah on March 3 . " Anyway , thanks be 
@@51499098 <h> Give yourself the gift of love <p> February is a definitely a special month for love -- with Valentine 's Day and all the symbols of romance that surround us during this time ! <p> But , many of us are much better at loving other people than we are at loving ourselves . So , I want to bring focus on self-love . <p> Most of us can be kind and compassionate towards others when they are struggling , and even forgive another 's behaviour , but when we experience challenges or setbacks we often criticize and mentally ' beat ourselves up ' . Many of us can recognize value in other people and their situations but fail to appreciate our own positive traits and what we have or do in our life . <p> Why is it we give ourselves such a hard time , yet probably would never treat others in the same way ? <p> Victim or victor ? <p> When we make a mistake , or fall short of our own expectations and the goals we set for ourselves , when we have a tough day and do n't make the progress we had hoped for , when something unexpected happens that we wished had n't happened , or what we hoped for does n't materialize , it 's important to remember that we have a choice about how we respond . <p> We can dwell on the negativity , be it a situation or person . We can complain and criticize , either out loud to others , or in our head . We can wish that things were different without doing anything to change how we feel . That will most likely generate more negative emotions such as frustration , shame , fear and resentment . Our moaning will likely only attract other people who enjoy complaining . Psychologists refer to this as a ' victim ' mindset . A ' woe is me ' attitude . We will feel worse , rather than better . <p> We can forgive ourselves ( or others ) . We can let go of feelings such as anger , resentment or guilt . We can stop complaining and focus on gratitude -- something , however small , we are thankful for . We can appreciate ourselves ; our traits and characteristics . For example : " today , I appreciate myself for ... " . We can practise acceptance of what is and move on . We can see our value and worth , even if only for a moment , regardless of what anyone else says to us , or what happens to us . <p> We can initiate a change . If the issue is a priority and within our control , we can choose to do something else , something different that moves us towards more of what we want to have/feel/be/do and steers us away from what we do n't want . Taking control can start with taking care of yourself on any , or all , levels -- mentally , emotionally , physically , spiritually , professionally . <p> What does self-care look like ? <p> Some examples : <p> Take your stress outside -- take a break in nature , get some fresh air and exercise . Go offline . <p> Make time to eat regularly and eat well ( food is medicine ) -- less junk food and more healthy choices will positively affect your mood . <p> Set boundaries -- know what to say yes and no to . Aim for some balance in different areas of your life e.g. work and relationships , home and recreation . Communicate your needs . <p> Practise self-compassion &amp; forgiveness -- tell yourself you are doing your best with what you have . Recognize what you can let go of . <p> To be able to love and give freely to other people it 's important to learn to love yourself first . You ca n't make your best contribution if you feel depleted , especially if it 's at the expense of always putting others first . Think about why the airline always asks you to put your oxygen mask on first before helping other people . <p> Mindset is key <p> We ca n't outperform our self-esteem . We may have stretching goals for the year , but we will never achieve them if we have a negative self-image and low self-worth . When we have healthy self-esteem , we hold ourselves in warm regard , despite our flaws and imperfections , and despite any negative circumstances we find ourselves in . We believe that we are enough and that we matter . We can stand up to any critical voice with love . We are mindful about what we focus on , knowing that ' like attracts like ' . We make a conscious effort to monitor and guard against our negative thoughts and change our thinking to focus on appreciation . <p> Managing our mindset requires discipline and determination , but the benefits are worth the effort . <p> Why is self-love important ? <p> Human beings need love and appreciation to thrive . Whilst we might look for this outside of ourselves , it must come from within . We can not rely on input from others or external circumstances to feel better about ourselves . We only have control over ourselves , our thoughts , our feelings and our actions . Our happiness . <p> Emotions connect the mind and body . As soon as you start practising self-love and appreciation your heart rate steadies , your immune system gets stronger , your cardiovascular system improves as does your brain function . Self-love is a powerful healing emotion with many positive benefits to your health and relationships . <p> On the other hand , negativity breeds ' dis-ease ' . Over time , negative stress from constantly beating ourselves up leads to chronic illness . <h> Facebook Comments <p> Hazel Morley has worked as a trainer , facilitator and coach for more than 25 years , sharing strategies to develop habits that initiate high performance in the workplace and the achievement of career goals . After her own personal health crisis , she shifted gears to focus on strategies for enjoying optimal health . She is passionate about learning and sharing how nutrition and the power of the mind can nurture and restore us , enabling us to live with vitality , for longer . After a vacation to Vancouver and Whistler , the beautiful mountains of British Columbia beckoned and she emigrated from England in 2009 . She now lives in Squamish and enjoys the sea-to-sky lifestyle . <h> Authors <h> About us ... <p> Founded in 2004 , the magazine began with a mandate to " inform , educate and motivate " immigrants to Canada and assist them in their new found journey . Since then , the magazine has grown to be the only national multi-platform brand for all immigrants to Canada , on topics from careers to education to settlement . Canadian Immigrant not only connects newcomers in Canada , but also aspiring immigrants from more than 150 countries . <h> Newsletter <p> Email address : <p> Yes ! Send me email announcements , notices , special offers and other information that may be of interest to me from Canadian Immigrant . <p> I can unsubscribe at any time . See our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use . Canadian Immigrant , a publication of Metroland Media Group Ltd. , 3145 Wolfedale Road , Mississauga , ON L5C 3A9. 905-273-8111 . <p> Radio host , The Filipino Edition , Red-FMCity : VancouverCountry of Origin : Philippines <p> Originally from the Philippines , Joseph Lopez migrated to Canada in 2009 and , like many newcomers , experienced barriers to using his skills where it matters most -- in the workplace . This motivated Joseph Lopez to be a public voice , and later be an employment counsellor for the immigrant community . <p> A public voice as a radio talk show host for The Filipino Edition on RED FM 93.1 and FM 89.1 in Metro Vancouver . RED stands for Reaching Ethnic Diversity and that is what the show is all about . Every Sunday morning , Lopez leads an on-air conversation on important issues providing information that can lead to more informed decision-making on the many facets of life : from job searches , budget management , to health care . The show is live streamed online so listeners tune in across Canada . <p> Since 2010 , as a volunteer reporter for several community media : print and online , Lopez advocated for reforms on highly restrictive professional regulatory processes , conversing with the head of a regulatory board , the premier of British Columbia , city councillors , MLAs and MPs to encourage them to review and improve professional licensing procedures . Public discourse on licensing has been at the forefront partly through Lopez 's reportage . With a concerted effort from stakeholders , some reforms have been achieved to ensure highly skilled internationally trained professionals are given the opportunity to practise their professions and make Canada a safer and better home for all Canadians . <p> As an employer relations specialist for a non-profit immigrant settlement agency in British Columbia , ISSofBC , Lopez has helped numerous newcomers from all over the world get a job in their chosen profession . Even before this role , Lopez has voluntarily assisted fathers , mothers , youth , singles , and seniors gain employment for their own , and their loved ones ' future . <p> For Lopez 's untiring service and donation of resources , he has received numerous recognitions and personal commendations . These expressions of gratitude have come from individuals , settlement agencies , churches and community groups . <p> Lopez continues to be a compassionate and pragmatic source of information and appropriate assistance to immigrants and Canadians . <p> Halia Valladares is a faculty member at Thompson Rivers University , and managing partner at Global Trading &amp; DS , Inc . <p> In addition , Valladares is Casa Mexico Foundation 's Vancouver director and serves in the board of the West Vancouver Chamber of Commerce as director . <p> She is the former special projects advisor to the vice-president academic at Capilano University and former dean of the Faculty of Business and Professional Studies . <p> To sum up her experience , Valladares has been a business professional in leadership positions for more than two decades . She has been a university professor and scholar for the past 17 years . She has served in different administrative positions in universities in different countries for more than 12 years . She also has international business and SCM experience in the private sector , and was the traffic , shipping and receiving supervisor for a Fortune 100 Corporation . <p> Valladares was a finalist of the Immigrants of Distinction Awards in Calgary , Outstanding performance under 40 in Canada in 2013 ; was nominated for Alberta Women Entrepreneur of the Year in 2014 ; received the award for Best Professional Impact 2019 in British Columbia by Red Global , Mexican Talent Network , to name a few honours and distinctions . <p> She earned her doctoral degree in economics and business administration from Burgos University , Spain . She also holds an MBA in international trade and a master of science in international logistics from Texas A &amp; M International University , U.S.A. and she is a certified international trade professional in Canada ( FITT-CITP ) . <p> Valladares has participated in more than 60 international conferences as a speaker . She has authored more than 20 research publications including two books , one used as an international business textbook in Canada , as well as several book chapters and journal articles in Mexico , Spain , Canada , Colombia , Venezuela , Pakistan , Cuba and the U.S.A. <p> Virginia Guiang-Santoro is the founder of the Filipino Domestic Workers Association of Manitoba ( FIDWAM ) . Founded in the 1980s , it 's an organization dedicated to protecting the rights of its members and all live-in caregivers in the province . FIDWAM is now in its 35th year and continuing to service live-in caregivers in Manitoba . <p> Giving back to her community and new Canadians has been a theme in the now-retired Guiang-Santoro 's professional and personal life . She was a representative to the National Organization of Immigrant and Visible Minority Women of Canada . <p> She was also founding member and president of the Cosmopolitan group of Winnipeg , a daughter organization of the Citizenship Council of Manitoba Inc. ; chairperson of the Queen 's and Mayor 's Committee of the Philippine Association of Manitoba ; mayor of the Philippine Pavilion in Winnipeg ; and an International Centre volunteer , welcoming new arrivals in Winnipeg . <p> For her efforts in supporting live-in caregivers and her community , Guiang-Santoro was the first Filipino awarded the Citation for Canadian Citizenship in Ottawa in 1991 . <p> In 1997 , she was chosen as Manitoba 's YWCA Woman of Distinction , and one of 10 selected women on the move in 1999 by the Winnipeg Sun . <p> She also received a Recognition of Service Award from the City of Winnipeg and a Queen 's Jubilee Medal in 2003 . <p> Before immigrating to Canada , she earned a bachelor of arts and bachelor of science in education and a master 's in education in the Philippines , and was a high school teacher at St. Theresa 's High School . <p> Mario Mauro turns 80 this year , and being a Top 75 finalist honours his rich list of accomplishments as a small business owner , municipal politician and charitable volunteer . Mauro now enjoys a retirement filled with rich community connections in Capreol , the town in which he would earn his first job at the IGA grocery as a teenager after leaving public education to work as many young immigrants did in that era . <p> His career in the grocery business would come to a premature end with the 1985 sale of Dominion Stores Limited . When he learned that the owners of the local hardware store , Barrand 's Hardware , hoped to sell their downtown business and retire , he invested in a future that would make him the business and community leader that he is today in his retirement . In 1985 , he became the new owner and operator of Capreol Pro Hardware . On the one-year anniversary of taking over the business , an early-morning fire began in the building 's electrical system . It seemed that Mauro 's dream was destroyed in an instant , but he reopened in a renovated space four doors down . <p> One of the joys of small business ownership for Mauro was the special place it afforded him within the community . At the store , he learned to help them fix their houses . He then started to dream about helping them to fix their community . In 1988 , he entered the municipal race and earned his spot on town council . In the next election , the town chose him to serve as deputy mayor . Mauro also got involved in the community through volunteering with the Capreol Lion 's Club , helping fundraise for local initiatives . Mauro and his wife have been active members of Sudbury Regional Police Service 's Citizens on Patrol ( COPs ) program for 12 years . In addition to his driving and dispatching responsibilities , he has also taken on the volunteer post of co-captain , for which he schedules volunteers , maintains the vehicle , and is keyholder for the storefront office . <p> When Mauro 's son was old enough to play minor league baseball and hockey , he coached these teams . He and his wife put their cooking and butchering skills together to volunteer at the Blue Door Soup Kitchen . When Our Lady of Peace Catholic Church called on him to volunteer on its finance committee , he put his business skills to work to help house a family of Syrian refugees , pave a parking lot , and get the roof fixed over the heads of his fellow parishioners . <p> Mauro has earned various awards for his volunteer work with the Capreol Lion 's Club , totalling over 35 years of service . <p> Abdo ( Albert ) El Tassi <p> President and CEO , Peerless Garments LPCity : WinnipegCountry of Origin : Lebanon <p> Abdo ( Albert ) El Tassi is a well-known Manitoba businessman and philanthropist who works tirelessly to promote understanding , tolerance and respect not only in Winnipeg but globally . El Tassi has called Winnipeg home since 1969 when he started in the shipping department of Peerless Garments Ltd . As of June 2006 , he has been the president and chief executive officer of Peerless Garments LP , which is a garment manufacturer and importer carrying two main businesses : leather and cold weather garments . For more than 45 years , he has worked closely with Department of National Defence staff working on the design and development of specialized garments for the military . <p> Giving back to the nation in which he lives , the community which he serves and the world to which he belongs is a fundamental part of his beliefs . El Tassi has been a major donor to the Islamic Social Services Association , a mosque in Thompson and the Alhijra Islamic School , among others . His support for the school is especially important to him because , he has said , education helps to eliminate ignorance and it fosters understanding of different cultures while promoting a better life . <p> He gives generously of his time and money to many charitable organizations . At home or work , his door is always open to those in need ; whether it be help in finding housing , a job , or providing counselling to new immigrants adjusting to the Canadian way of life . <p> His philanthropy extends far beyond his community . Over the years he has supported UNICEF , Canadian Museum for Human Rights , Canadian Diabetes Association , World Vision , United Way , Variety Children 's Charity of Manitoba , Winnipeg Harvest , Winnipeg Foundation , among others . He has also supported international disaster relief efforts and has sponsored nearly 50 immigrants to Canada . <p> Recognized for his philanthropy and community service , he was a recipient of the Queen 's Diamond Jubilee Medal ; he is a Member of the Order of Canada ; he was named to the Order of Manitoba , recipient of the Lieutenant Governor 's award for Outstanding Contribution to the Community , presented by the Manitoba Chambers of Commerce , and he was named Humanitarian of the Year in 2012 by the Canadian Red Cross , among numerous other honours . <p> One of most in-demand speakers on resilience in Canada today , Zaheen Nanji has shared her content-rich , entertaining , hard-hitting and memorable presentations to enthusiastic audiences such as HR , health professionals , educators and leaders . <p> Her compelling stories of suffering from a speech impediment to moving halfway across the world as a teenager , without her parents , and just recently surviving breast cancer ; has her audience laughing and tearing up at the same time . <p> Nanji is a TEDx speaker and has been featured on the front cover of Positive HealthMagazine and on various broadcast media outlets in U.K. , U.S.A. and Canada . She 's also a two-time best-selling and award-winning author . <p> Nanji and her husband own Shanti Wellness &amp; Laser Centre in Alberta . She has also been working part time in the field of environmental public health for the last 16 years and volunteers in her faith community as their representative in environmental public health . <p> A librarian , information officer , entrepreneur , community leader , mother and advocate for social justice , Tuyet Lam 's commitment and dedication as a community volunteer and a professional are driven by her experience as a Vietnamese refugee , coming to Canada from a war-torn country . <p> She has successfully worked as a medical information specialist of the Calgary Health Region and University of Calgary , Health Information Network . As a proud community leader and ardent advocate for social justice , Lam achieved distinction when serving on the boards of numerous charitable / community organizations including the Vietnamese Canadian Federation , Asian Heritage Foundation , Calgary Vietnamese Canadian Association , Calgary Vietnamese Language School and the Association for the Encouragement of Learning . <p> Lam 's love and devotion to Canada and Calgary and its friendly and caring communities have greatly benefited a diversity of individuals and groups over the past 37 years . To recognize Lam for her many years of community service and dedication to her adopted country , she was awarded with the prestigious Senate of Canada 150th Anniversary Medal ( 2018 ) , Queen Elizabeth II Diamond Jubilee Medal ( 2012 ) and the Calgary Health Region 's People First Award ( 2004 ) . <p> Currently , Lam , a mother of two successful adults , is a partner with Booking.com to provide and manage online reservations and communications to thousands of satisfied travelers around the globe . In particular , she is the co-chair of her lifelong passion , the Vietnamese Boat People Memorial Monument project , Journey to Freedom Park , which was spearheaded by the Calgary Vietnamese Canadian Association . <p> Tim Sherstyuk <p> Co-founder , GBattersCity : OttawaCountry of Origin : Ukraine <p> Tim Sherstyuk is the co-founder and chief commercial officer of GBatteries , an advanced battery technology company . His role encompasses operations , marketing , business development and human resources . Sherstyuk started what would eventually become GBatteries when he was only 19 and studying chemistry at Carleton University . Sherstyuk was frustrated with the lifespan of his cell phone battery , so he asked his father , an electrical engineer , why batteries started losing capacity only months after purchase . This question led to two years of research and eventually the incorporation of GBatteries in 2014 . <p> Fast forward five years , Sherstyuk and his three co-founders have grown GBatteries significantly . The startup employs 20 team members , has 10 granted patents , and has raised millions of dollars from investors including Airbus Ventures , Initialized Capital , Plug and Play , SV Angel and Y Combinator . <p> The technology GBatteries is developing has amazing potential to accelerate the transition from internal combustion vehicles -- one of the main contributors of greenhouse gas emissions -- to zero tailpipe emissions electric vehicles . On February 12 , 2020 , it was announced that GBatteries was selected to receive funding as part of the Breakthrough Energy Solutions Canada ( BESC ) program , a collaboration between Natural Resources Canada , Breakthrough Energy Ventures , an investor-led fund and the Business Development Bank of Canada . The partnership was created to support the advancement of Canadian clean energy technologies that can significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions and will provide up to $3 million in funding . <p> As a young entrepreneur , Sherstyuk wants to help others and as such , he acted as a mentor with Y Combinator 's Startup School from 2017 to 2019 . The program involved providing support to founders on running a startup , while equipping them with necessary tools and resources . Sherstyuk hosted weekly video calls as part of his mentorship and has also met in-person with several local founders . <p> Sherstyuk is only 27 but already has many years of experience as a founder , chief executive officer , and chief commercial officer in various roles . He has been issued five patents for his work . As Sherstyuk is deeply concerned about the environment and the human impact on climate change , he was recently named to the Forbes 30 Under 30 class of 2020 in the energy category . <p> In 2012 , Tareq Hadhad was a young man studying to be a medical doctor at the University of Damascus in Syria . His family owned a successful chocolate company that had been producing decadent sweets and exporting them throughout the Middle East for nearly 30 years . In very a short period of time , the life he knew and the future he had planned for himself were both forever changed when bombings during the Syrian War destroyed both the Hadhad family 's home and chocolate factory . Hadhad and his family fled to safety in Lebanon , where they lived for three years before finally being welcomed to resettle in Canada as refugees . <p> Since arriving in his new community of Antigonish , Nova Scotia on Canada 's east coast in late 2015 , Hadhad has re-established the family chocolate company and has given it a new purpose . Rebranded as Peace by Chocolate , the main focus of the new business is to spread peace , acceptance , resilience and love through a wide offering of sweets and treats . He also founded a charity , the Peace On Earth Society , funded by a percentage of all chocolate sales , to fund peace-building initiatives across Canada and beyond . <p> Since coming to Canada , Hadhad has also established himself as a highly sought-after public speaker . He has shared his story and message of peace all over the world , giving hundreds of speeches and keynote addresses at conferences and events of all types . He has been the recipient of Start Up Canada 's National Newcomer Entrepreneur Award , named one of the Top 25 Immigrants in the Maritimes , and selected by Google as the National Hero Case for 2018 . <p> Receiving full Canadian citizenship in January 2020 has been the highlight of Hadhad 's life to date . While his roots will always be in Syria , he is fiercely proud to now be Canadian and can not imagine a better place to do business , to contribute to society , to grow and to call home . <p> Hundreds of immigrants are paving their own way to success and contributing to Atlantic Canada 's economic prosperity , thanks to the inspiration and guidance of Nova-Scotia based immigrant leader , Sylvia Abdelgawad . <p> At 17 , Abdelgawad came to Canada from Egypt and pursued a bachelor of science at Saint Mary 's University . She completed her master 's in global health at McMaster University and is currently taking her immigration consultancy degree . Her mission is to create positive change in the world by empowering others like herself to create a path for themselves . And she is having significant impact . <p> Abdelgawad founded a social enterprise , Project 360 , which helps refugee youth to settle in Canada , by creating a pathway through entrepreneurship . The result was the launch of several refugee-based businesses including Piece of the East and Off the Beaten Path . <p> She currently works at an innovative , Atlantic Canadian firm called Placemaking 4G ( P4G ) , where she is launching a cluster employment model . The model brings together part-time jobs of two to three employers , to create full time positions . In Nova Scotia , there is a narrative that there are no jobs , and that the province is not a place to stay . But the cluster model aims to change that narrative and help attract and retain talent in Nova Scotia . <p> You can find Sylvia interning at a local immigration firm and serving on local boards including Junior Achievement Nova Scotia , and One NS . She also contributes to the Halifax Magazine , an immigrant-owned publication , and is empowering her local Rotary Club to support an international program from Egypt . <p> Abdelgawad has been recognized for her work with a Community Impact Award , Amplify East mention , Young Alumni of the year and the Award of Excellence in Advancing Immigrant Women . However , her list of achievements and awards are no measure for her energy and passion , and a persistently burning desire to serve the vulnerable , and provide a foundation of support for women here in Canada and around the globe . <p> Her fire-filled personality is the result of overcoming struggles at an early age . At 18 , she had no choice but to be financially independent , leading her to work six jobs while completing full-time courses . Her passion to help refugees and immigrants start their businesses is to fight the narrative she faced -- that immigrants and refugees are taking jobs . <p> For Abdelgawad , Nova Scotia is a place where community members have become family , and where she has found her voice . <p> Svetlana Balaba , who came to Canada as an international student in 2009 , has come full circle as manager , international admissions at Humber College . She oversees work of an admissions team to ensure timely processing of more than 20,000 international applications a year . In this role , she leads a team of 17 staff members helping international applicants to fulfill their dream to study in Canada . <p> Last year , in collaboration with her colleagues from Humber College , Balaba developed and implemented a marketing communications strategy as part of a pilot enrollment manager project . Results of this work have been presented at Ruffalo Noel Levitz conference in Nashville Tennessee in summer 2019 . The success of the project was phenomenal and it was extended across the different faculties at Humber College . <p> Wanting to learn more about immigration system in Canada , Balaba obtained her registered immigration consultant licence in 2018 and opened her own immigration company , We Care Immigration , to assist international graduates to become permanent residents of Canada . <p> Always looking for ways to give back , Balaba volunteered for Canadian Bureau for International Education ( CBIE ) Communication Committee at International Network of Tomorrows Leaders and worked with other professionals from other institutions in Canada on communication strategies . As an RCIC , Balaba volunteers for the Canadian Association of Professional Immigration Consultants ( CAPIC ) : the professional organization created for Regulated Canadian Immigration Consultants ( RCICs ) on membership and event committees . <p> Indian-born storyteller , activist , director and actress Shreya Patel is altruism personified . A voice for the voiceless , she has , since childhood , dedicated her life to not only a career in the arts , but also in social work . Her selfless doggedly determined desire to serve and improve the welfare of others are strengths that come from her own experiences . <p> Her earlier diligent activism work during her high school include working with various charity ventures . Recognizing her years of unflagging dedication to the community , Patel was crowned Miss Teen Sarnia at 17 and went on to the Miss Teen Canada pageant . During her reign , she discovered the platform had given her a much more powerful voice and from her new position , helped fundraise for organizations and causes such as cancer awareness , Terry Fox Foundation and Make A Wish Foundation . <p> A Ryerson University undergraduate student during the day , she would spend her evenings working on various social work initiatives like spending time with Wish Foundation children , raising money and organizing events . <p> She moved to India right after and worked with international talent agency IMG to organize Lakme Fashion Week , which lead to engagement roles with Vogue India , Dubai Fashion Week and more . She continued her humanitarian work with non-profit organizations like the Mother Teresa Orphanage and Make A Wish Foundation India . Living in a non-Western country bestowed a new level of humility and insight as she volunteered and visited the orphanage often to provide support for abused and abandoned children , as well as being named a celebrity wish granter for the terminally ill . <p> Patel 's earnest contributions to the community grow more significant each year , impacting many lives and encouraging others to speak openly about their mental health struggles as the face of national mental health campaign Bell Let 's Talk . Global Affairs Canada has recognized Patel for her advocacy in 2019 . <p> Patel 's desire to tell stories of the voiceless led her to make a documentary , Girl Up , which covered domestic human trafficking . She interviewed survivors along with MPP Laurie Scott , who helped pass a human trafficking bill , and Tamara Cherry , an award-winning journalist who has been covering this subject for years . Toronto International Film Festival partnered to showcase the film at the Civic Action Summit , where civic leaders came together to combat this issue . It has since been showcased at community screenings , conferences and was lauded by members of victim services and the law enforcement community . The documentary is also mentioned on the Forbes website . Patel also represented her riding of University-Rosedale at the Under 35 Women 's Forum at the Assembly of Ontario after a rigorous selection process . She had the opportunity to spread awareness about human trafficking in front of Members of Parliament . Outside of social activism , Patel is writing a docudrama and is a competitive dancer . She is an honoree of the Women 's Achiever Award and nominated for Forbes 30 Under 30 for the year 2020 . <p> Sharmarke Dubow <p> City councillorCity : Victoria , B.C.Country of Origin : Somalia <p> Sharmarke Dubow is a former refugee who fled civil war in Somalia at the age of eight , and spent 20 years seeking safe haven in eastern and northern Africa until Canada offered him a home in 2012 . <p> Dubow cast his first vote on October 20 , 2018 , and at the same time was elected as a Victoria city councillor . Dubow is the first Somali-Canadian elected to city council in Canada and the first Black city councillor to be elected in Victoria in 152 years . His passion and commitment to diversity and building equitable , inclusive and compassionate communities , and his work for marginalized communities has earned him recognition and respect as a community leader and a voice for bold and courageous policies . <p> Dubow has extensive experience serving refugee and immigrant populations and in community development . He holds a degree in business technology from the University of Cape Breton and has worked at the Inter-Cultural Association of Greater Victoria and the Victoria Immigrant Refugee Services Centre . He has also served on various organizations and groups , including the Canadian Council for Refugees , the Youth Crime Prevention Steering Committee , and the Victoria Tenant Action Group . Since joining City Council , Dubow continues to mentor young youth leaders and speaks at community and international events , sharing his own story and inspiring future leaders . <p> In less than a year on City Council , Dubow has taken great steps to make life more equitable , inclusive , and affordable for people in Victoria . He 's passed motions to make public transit free , started a renters advisory committee to give tenants a voice , worked to bring an equity lens to decision-making at the city , fought for the addition of affordable housing in Victoria , and initiated reconciliation dialogues between Indigenous and newcomer community members . As someone uprooted from his home with firsthand experience of how scarce resources can lead to drought and ensuing conflict , Dubow knows the climate crisis will result in more displaced people globally . He believes we need to work together and call on our leaders to fight for climate justice . <p> Shanthi Johnson <p> Dean , School of Public Health , University of AlbertaCity : EdmontonCountry of Origin : India <p> Shanthi Johnson , Ph.D. , is professor and dean in the School of Public Health at the University of Alberta . Her research program on health promotion and falls prevention in seniors also extends to the study of aging in place in rural communities , and social isolation especially among immigrant and refugee seniors . She has a well-established research record , having secured significant grants , including CIHR , CFI and others . She has delivered more than 300 presentations , published more than 150 articles and reports in prestigious journals such as the Lancet , appeared before the Canadian Senate Committee as an expert witness , and served on many grant adjudicating panels nationally and internationally including the European Commission , United Kingdom-Joint Call for Research on Ageing , and South Africa ? -- ? National Research Foundation . <p> Johnson has significant leadership experiences . She was associate dean in the Faculty of Kinesiology and Health Studies at the University of Regina ( 2008 -- 2014 ) . She has served on various boards such as the Eastern Kings Community Health Board and Annapolis Valley Health in Nova Scotia , Saskatchewan Health Research Foundation , and president of Shastri Indo-Canadian Institute . As a member of the National Seniors Council ( 2012-2018 ) , she advised the Government of Canada on aging issues . <p> Other noteworthy recognitions/roles include : Fulbright Scholar in the U.S. , Endeavour Executive Fellow in Australia , Global Initiative of Academic Networks visiting professor in India , a Deutscher Akademischer Austaussch Dienst Scholar in Germany , and Understanding China fellow in China . Given her research and leadership , she has been awarded fellow status with Dietitians of Canada , the American College of Sports Medicine and the Gerontological Society of America . In 2014 , Johnson was named the Female Professional of the Year by the India Canada Chamber of Commerce and , in 2016 , received the Award of Innovation by the Regina Chamber of Commerce . In 2019 , she received honorary membership with the Golden Key International Honour Society . <p> Johnson 's personal and professional work has spanned many communities and groups around the globe , fostered by key tenets of international cooperation , equity and inclusive diversity , which underpin her worldview . She is deeply committed to addressing issues that help elevate the human condition , such as education , health equity , health research , and international dialogue and exchange . She is the proud mother of a seven-year old chess wiz , Joshua , and wife of an academic , Ernest Johnson . " Whatever is worth doing at all is worth doing well " has been a guiding principle in her work and life . <p> Shahab Anari <p> Director , North Star SuccessCity : TorontoCountry of Origin : Iran <p> Shahab Anari , Ph.D. , is a multiple best-selling author ( two million copies sold worldwide ) , keynote speaker and professional coach , specializing in personal branding . Every year , he speaks at close to 100 events on topics of personal and professional development , and he has helped close to 5,000 people in Canada during the past five years since immigrating from Iran . He is on a mission to help professionals , especially from immigrant origins , achieve tremendous success through personal branding , through his coaching and training company North Star Success . <p> Anari is a well-known figure in Canada 's immigrant community due to his seminars , conferences , books and social media content . He has close to 200,000 engaged followers on social media that love his work . In 2019 , he and his wife held a huge successful conference , the Professional Development Conference for Immigrants ( PDCI ) , at Humber College in Toronto , where they served close to 1,600 registrants . <p> Anari has many feathers in his cap . More than 20 years ago , he came first in the nationwide University Entrance Exam in Iran among more than one million contenders . He then finished medical school and graduated as a general practitioner , but due to his prominent academic success , he went on to become very well-known as a success coach . Since immigrating to Canada , he has been featured in the Wall Street Journal , Yahoo ! Finance and Toronto.com and is now a contributor to Forbes . He 's a member of CAPS ( Canadian Association of Professional Speakers ) and he also sits on the board of ICF ( International Coach Federation ) , Toronto Chapter , as a volunteer . During the past few years , he has done a lot of volunteer work for immigrants including free seminars and webinars , mentoring new immigrants with Futurpreneur Canada , and helping newcomers at YMCA . <p> Anari is a dad of two beautiful sons , Kason and Aiden , and he 's happily married to his wife , Katty . <p> Serena Chan is a partner in IBM Financial Services sector in IBM Global Business Services ( GBS ) in Canada , focused on helping clients accelerate digital reinvention , from strategy , technology to incubating and scaling new skills and competencies . Chan was born in Hong Kong and came to Canada in 1989 . <p> Chan has led portfolios of work who have designed new and differentiated legendary customer experiences , implemented award-winning solutions , and adopted AI technologies for customer experience and operational efficiency . <p> She received 28 personal awards including IBM Delivery Excellence award seven times and Best of IBM in 2017 . Her project team received IBM Delivery and Innovation Award in 2019 and shortlisted for top FinTech project of the year in 2019 . <p> Chan holds 16 professional certifications . She is a four-time IBM Redbook author . She is also passionate about helping underprivileged teenagers and represented IBM performed pro bono consulting services in Mexico City for IBM Service Corps . She is also the guild leader for Technical Women 's Guild at IBM and created an apprentice associate partner program coaching consultants at IBM . <p> Chan was named one of Canada 's Top 50 women in FinTech in 2019 from Digital Finance Institute . She is also the first Chinese woman to become a partner in FSS in GBS IBM Canada . She received a Professional Achievement Award from CPAC in 2019 . <p> Sanga Achakzai <p> Chair of the Board , Council of Agencies Serving South Asians ( CASSA ) City : TorontoCountry of Origin : Afghanistan <p> Sanga Achakzai was once a refugee child from Afghanistan clenching the fingers of her worried mother . Running across borders to seek refuge in a safe place , Canada is where she found her refuge from chaos and turmoil and here is where she found home . <p> Achakzai 's journey to leadership has been molded by several significant events that influenced how and where she serves and contributes to society . She is an advocate and champion in promoting equitable and fair employment , housing , education , health and other community resources for racialized and marginalized communities in Ontario . <p> She is the chair of Council of Agencies Serving South Asians ( CASSA ) , and steering committee member of Colour of Poverty -- Colour of Change for more than four years . She provides leadership in projects and initiatives that build the capacity of South Asian Canadians as leaders , promote health equity through summits held in collaboration with educational and health sector partners such as Ryerson University , CAMH and William Osler Health System , as well as promote employment equity through research and policy recommendations . <p> Achakzai also provided leadership and guidance to initiatives such as the " Organ Donation Campaign " that raised awareness to more than 1 million South Asian Canadians and registered 10,000 people for organ donation . She also engages with policymakers and key politicians for recommendations and policy advocacy in matters that affect marginalized and racialized communities . Issues she has engaged on include the Poverty Reduction Strategy , Housing Strategy and Human Rights . She also contributed to the Racism Free Ontario Campaign that resulted in the establishment of Ontario 's Anti-Racism Directorate . <p> At Afghan Women 's Organization , Sanga participated in strategic planning that resulted in diversifying funding streams and enhancing grants that matched the needs of the communities . She also sits on the committees of Local Immigration Partnership -- Employment and Health Action Groups and Professional International Networks ( PINs ) . At Catholic Cultural Services , she works with internationally trained medical professionals to create equitable and meaningful opportunities for them so they can reach their full potential . As once a newcomer herself , Achakzai recognizes the struggles that immigrants and refugees face when settling in Canada . <p> Achakzai is the recipient of Proclamation by the City of Toronto for " Diversity is our Strength " on behalf of Council of Agencies Serving South Asians . Under her leadership , CASSA was recognized for its extensive work on promoting inclusivity through various projects , initiatives and policy recommendations . <p> Achakzai lives in Ajax with her husband , mother and two beautiful children ! <p> Sanchari Sen Rai is the co-founder and chief executive officer of Education Consultants Canada ( ECC ) Inc . She is a woman entrepreneur leading an all-women team that has helped thousands of international students work through the onerous process of applying to study in Canada , getting accepted and flourishing both academically and integrating with the Canadian way of life . Sen Rai believes it is vitally important and a social obligation for businesses to give back to the community all that one has learned and earned when one is in a position to do so to create empowering teams and individuals . <p> Sen Rai came to Canada as an immigrant , started a business from her basement in 2010 , to watch it grow into a business that has helped more than 15,000 international students find placements in colleges and universities across Canada and around the world . The business started with a dream , a simple website , an aggressive plan for developing a network of university and college contacts and a burning desire to help international students avoid the many problems they could encounter . <p> ECC has offices in Toronto and in Mississauga as well as in India and Philippines to cater to different categories of students . Along with that there are representatives in South Asia , South America , Middle East , East European Countries . ECC works with 100 plus representative all across the globe . <p> From booking standardized tests to helping students fill in the necessary paperwork to obtain the visas and other documentation and assisting with travel arrangements , ECC streamlines the entire process for international students to make the incomprehensible understandable . ECC specializes in providing highly personalized service to both students and their families . Once students are here , the team offers individualized support and acts in many ways as a surrogate family to students who have been uprooted from home , family , friends and country after just graduating high school and finding themselves in a totally foreign land with no supports and often limited language and life skills . ECC provides guidance and help them develop the confidence to succeed . It now offers services to about 500 students each semester and work with 60+ colleges and universities . <p> Sen Rai has also gone on to help many of them to stay in Canada after graduation to build lives , families and careers in this country , hiring ex-students to pay it forward and help the next round of students to overcome all the hurdles they themselves have overcome . <p> Sen Rai , who had a degree in hospitality management from India , graduated from Humber College 's immigration consulting program in 2019 . <p> Samer Bishay is president and CEO of Iristel &amp; Ice Wireless , Canada 's leading provider of wireless and wireline IP services . As Iristel 's founder , Bishay led the company from a small startup to an international telecommunications service provider with domestic infrastructure licences on three continents ( North America , Europe and Africa ) . Bishay oversees global and domestic strategies for Iristel and Ice Wireless and their various brands such as Sugar Mobile . He ensures business objectives are in line with telecommunications trends , guaranteeing customers continued success in highly competitive markets . <p> Well known in the telecommunications field , Bishay is a frequent contributor to various public platforms , from newspapers and television to social media and industry websites . He also actively participates in many public forums that are helping shape Canadian broadband policy -- a key to Canada 's future , especially related to rural broadband development and bridging the digital divide . <p> A licensed jet pilot , Bishay was appointed Honorary Colonel of 34 Signal Regiment of the Canadian Armed Forces in 2019 . In this role , Colonel Bishay serves as an advocate for the Regiment and the CAF in general and he helps strengthen the military 's bond with the community . Prior to founding Iristel , Bishay was a lead systems engineer in the Radarsat program at the Canadian Space Agency . He is a graduate of the space and communications program at York University , with an honours bachelor of science degree . <p> Sal Sabila <p> Founder , Youth GravityCity : TorontoCountry of Origin : Bangladesh <p> After immigrating from Bangladesh at the age of 10 , Sal Sabila was immediately occupied in dismantling every barrier that stopped her from being the best version of herself through volunteer work . This never-ending struggle had kept her at her feet at all times , either fighting the stigmas around mental health or trying to define " home " in a foreign country ; both of which inspired her to start her own initiatives . <p> Sabila is an outstanding young leader and inspiring advocate for youth empowerment . Since the age of 16 , she has dedicated herself to supporting the passions and initiatives of young people to improve their communities . By the age of 20 , she has founded not just one but two non-profit organizations : first of these , called Youth Gravity . Youth Gravity is an organization that provides young people with a platform to execute projects for the betterment of their communities . Her journey in creating Youth Gravity was born in part out of the realization that racialized young people do not have the same access to leadership roles or opportunities for community engagement and development that adults or non-racialized youth older adults typically do . Youth Gravity works to fill this gap by providing a supportive framework of human resources and skills to help young people plan , fund , and execute ideas to make changes that reflect the needs of youth in their communities . <p> In addition to Youth Gravity , Sabila has been working on launching a second not-profit organization to address social inequities in science , technology , engineering and mathematics by creating an online community for immigrant women who are trying to get involved in the STEM world . <p> In recognition of the importance of Youth Gravity 's work , Sabila has recently received an award from the prestigious International Queen 's Commonwealth Trust -- an organization headed by Prince Harry and Meghan Markle -- whose mission is to promote the enormous potential of youth to create a better future . She also currently serves as the National Alumni Ambassador for Pathways to Education Canada , and has represented the riding of Toronto Centre in the House of Commons as a Daughters of the Vote Delegate this past spring , a national initiative designed to increase representation of women in government . All the while in her spare time , Sabila is pursuing an undergraduate degree in mathematics at the University of Toronto . Sabila is an example of the power young leaders carry within themselves to make a difference in this world . <p> Renay Ristoff <p> Client support worker , City of Leduc Family and Community Support ServicesCity : Spruce Grove , AlbertaCountry of Origin : Fiji <p> In 2013 , while working with a homeless patient at Royal Alexandra , Renay Ristoff realized the gift she had was her dedication toward helping people . She applied for and was offered work as a housing outreach worker at the Bissell Centre . This began her career in helping the homeless . Within her first year there , Ristoff one month housed 12 individuals . She went on to be one of the first teams ' members of Bissell Centre 's Outreach Housing Team and was able to house 15 people even before the launch of the team . <p> Since October 2016 , Ristoff has been the housing advocate for the City of Leduc , working with the Family and Community Support Services Office . Over the course of 2017 , she helped 181 individuals alone find housing . Ristoff is also involved with the Alberta Coalition for ending homelessness and is the founder of Parkland Women 's Foundation . <p> Her professional interests focus on involving herself in variety of community services that focuses on housing the homeless . When she is not with her family , she is constantly looking for ways to help her clients through collaboration with other agencies in Edmonton and surrounding areas . Her volunteered experiences vary from participating in Heritage Days in Edmonton to volunteering with Canadian Red Cross Disaster Management Team in the Edmonton area . <p> In 2018 , Ristoff was awarded the ROOPH awards for her outstanding performance in housing and homelessness in Edmonton and surrounding areas . She further went on to start her own nonprofit society called Parkland Women 's Foundation , with a focus on helping women in Parkland county and surrounding rural communities , out of poverty and homelessness . Though her organization does not yet have a charitable status , she is working hard to expand and grow her foundation so one day women in rural communities have accessibility to resources in their own community and do not have to travel to major cities for services . <p> Ristoff was born in the Fiji Islands , where she was brought up by her grandparents and is no stranger to poverty and homelessness . She herself knows what sacrifices a person often has to make in order to feed one 's family and have a roof over their head . Her educational background started at the University of the South Pacific where she completed a bachelor of education , made possible through a scholarship she received through her hard work in high school . Without this scholarship , Ristoff would not have been able to afford post-secondary education in Fiji . Her educational background presently has advanced to social work where she is specializing in homelessness , substance use and working with clients with mental health disorders . <p> Ever since his retirement from his professional career , R.B. Herath pursued his other lifelong interests as an author , dramatist , social/political reformist and a peace activist , including as founder of Global Peace Alliance , which aims to empower people and their networks everywhere to build and sustain a culture of peace for generations to come . <p> Herath immigrated to Canada in April 1990 as a fully pledged professional engineer qualified under the British system . Then , he completed a detailed process before he could practise in Canada in 1994 . By this time , he had completed a two-year engineer-in-training assignment with a private consultancy firm and secured employment with the B.C. government afterwards . For the next 13 years , he continued to work with the B.C. government playing numerous roles until he finally retired from BC public service in March 2007 . These roles included floodplain management engineer , water allocation engineer , land and water officer , section head/water allocation , and acting regional water manager . During this period , he was especially recognized for his ability to bring difficult negotiations with First Nations and the developers in the Lower Mainland region on related matters to successful conclusion . During eight years of this period , he was also the elected representative of the members of the B.C. Government Professional Employees ' Association in the region . After retiring from B.C. public service , he worked as a private consultant to small hydropower developers in B.C. for about three years . <p> Highlights of his volunteer and personal achievements in Canada include : <p> Served as a member of the Citizens ' Assembly on Electoral Reform in British Columbia ( 2004 ) <p> Served as a board member of a number of other democracy and peace organizations based in Canada , including the South Asian Network for Secularism and Democracy <p> Wrote , directed and presented at the Michael J. Fox Theatre three stage dramas ; <p> Authored three new books ( rbherath.com ) that are now available to readers in city/university libraries in and outside Canada <p> These and other services he provided to the community have been well received . The specific honours and awards he received include letters /certificates of appreciation ( S.U.C.C.E.S.S. , parents of GPA youth , Member of Parliament Honourable Ken Hardy , and others ) , special recognitions ( African Stages Association and others ) , and Multiculturalism and Anti-Racism awards ( B.C. government ) , and plaques in honour of my lifelong endeavours to bring peace to the world ( GPA ) . <p> Piyali Dey is a computer scientist by training , and community activist by passion . Before starting at Microsoft as a program manager for the AI and cloud developer relations team for North America , she spent several years working in enterprise companies and startups as a software engineer . She holds a graduate degree in computer science from North Carolina State University , U.S.A. In her current role , Dey works with the startups , students and professional developers across North America to help them learn Microsoft Azure and solve complex technical and business challenges . <p> Dey is known across the technical community as an active community leader and a relentless advocate for diversity and equality in tech . The past few years have seen her in various lead roles at major conferences and community groups including IEEE Women in Engineering , Grace Hopper Conference , Women Techmakers , Women Who Code , Google Developers Groups and many others . Building communities and empowering minorities in tech are two of her biggest passions and she has played an instrumental role in shaping many such community groups across Silicon Valley and Vancouver . She currently runs multiple community groups all over Canada with a major focus on empowering women and young girls in technology . <p> Dey is one of the lead diversity ambassadors ( Women Techmakers ) for Google and the winner of prestigious recognitions like " Young CSC role model/mentors 2013 " by She++ , A Stanford University initiative for innovative women in technology and Community Award from Women Who Code in 2017 among various other scholarships from global companies . She has served in major committees/boards for organizations like IEEE Women in Engineering International Leadership Conference 2018 and Grace Hopper Conference 2019 . She is also a keynote speaker and has appeared in many major national and international podcasts where she talks about her passion and encourages others to advocate for diversity and equality . <p> Dey is a big believer of the saying " Whether you think you can , or you think you ca n't -- you 're right , " by Henry Ford . Her journey from India to U.S. and now in Canada has given her lot of exposure to learn new things and make an impact . She moved to Canada in 2018 and could not be happier for making this choice . <p> A recipient of the Diversity Network Toronto 's Black Role Model Award ( 2017 ) and the Canada 150 Business Leadership Award ( 2018 ) , Nyarayi Kapisavanhu is a community leader , entrepreneur and teacher at heart . Two years after arriving in the Niagara Region Canada , Kapisavanhu recognized the need for an organization that addressed the needs , obstacles and barriers faced by newcomer racialized women to Canada through her own journey . <p> In 2013 , Kapisavanhu founded and is the executive director of TOES Niagara , an organization that works with women from diverse communities and backgrounds , giving them the Tools Of Empowerment for Success ( TOES ) through multi-lens ( gender , racial equity , etc. ) educational workshops , programs and other support services . TOES Niagara is about empowering women to believe in their abilities for personal growth and the growth of their communities , while ensuring that women have a voice at the highest level in business , community and political sectors through programming and strategic dialogue . <p> Kapisavanhu is also the founder of the Advocating for Black Excellence Awards of Niagara ( ABEAN ) , a Black History Month Gala , in its fourth year running , that showcases the positive roles Black people have played and continue to play in Niagara . ABEAN is a key platform for Black youth mentorship and the proceeds go toward the Wilma Morrison Scholarship fund . To date , the fund has awarded more than 10 scholarships of $1,000 each to Grade 12 students to assist with post-secondary education . Kapisavanhu is also the creator of the **38;286;TOOLONG , a series of talks and workshops designed to help marginalized women , victims of abuse and those experiencing low self-esteem , to dismantle the voices of the oppressor ( whatever their oppressors maybe ) and to reconnect with and use their voices as they recognize their self-worth . <p> Kapisavanhu is heavily involved in the community , volunteering on many boards and committees , locally and internationally , in various capacities . Locally , she was instrumental in resuscitating and is the past president of the Association for Bright Children of Ontario , Niagara Chapter . She is the current board president for SOFIFRAN ( Solidarit ? de Femmes Immigrantes Francophones ) as well as a board member for the YWCA Niagara and the Niagara District Council of Women . She sits on a number of committees such as the Local Immigrant Partnership , Niagara Women and Youth Gathering , the Committee to End Violence Against Women ( CEVAW ) and is the current co-chair alongside the Niagara Chief of Police , on the Niagara Chief of Police 's Community Inclusion Council . <p> Muuxi Adam is a young , former Somali refugee who escaped from the civil war and its horrible aftermath . Adam arrived in Winnipeg in 2004 at age 16 with no family or friends , with the equivalent of a Grade 4 education . Today , Adam is a graduate from the University of Winnipeg in 2013 and currently pursuing a master 's in social work at the University of Manitoba . <p> Adam has extensive experience working with immigrant and refugee communities in Winnipeg 's inner city focusing mainly on settlement issues , gang and street crime prevention , and employment opportunities for newcomer youth . <p> He is a great advocate for the newcomer community especially for youth and he embodies many of the qualities Manitobans take pride in -- resilience , working for the community , gratitude and giving back . Adam also has served on a number of boards and committees in Winnipeg including the Recreation Task Force of the Winnipeg Poverty Reduction Council , the Manitoba Ethno Cultural Advisory and Advocate Council and the Boys and Girls Club of Winnipeg . Adam is the director of community development program at Aurora Family Therapy Centre . <p> Adam is a co-founder of Humankind International Inc. , a non-profit organization that seeks to provide free , quality early childhood care and education and other opportunities to refugee and marginalized children in Dadaab camp and its surrounding areas . <p> Adam was the recipient of Winnipeg Citizen Equity Committee -- Youth Role Model Award in 2007 , recipient of the YMCA-YWCA Peace Medals in 2012 , recipient of Manitoba Human Rights Award in 2012 and also recipient of Red Cross Young Humanitarian of the Year in 2014 . <p> " Through his experience and the varied aspects of his social work , he has taken his own life-lessons to heart and applied them to helping the disadvantaged and the bewildered find pathways to understanding and self-improvement . His commitment to human rights and his clear-eyed recognition of the harsh realities of global survival , combined with his demonstrated leadership skills , make him an excellent young inspiring Canadian . Muuxi Adam is an individual , who consistently transcends the challenges of his early circumstances in his willingness to make the world a better place for others " . -- Max Wyman , former president , Canadian Commission for UNESCO . <p> Mortimer Capriles <p> Director of sustainability and innovation , Goodwill Industries of AlbertaCity : EdmontonCountry of Origin : Venezuela <p> Mortimer Capriles is the director of sustainability and innovation at Goodwill Industries of Alberta since January 2018 . His responsibility includes leadership of all sustainability projects , including sustainability reporting and stakeholder engagement . He is also in charge of improving all sustainability KPIs , including diversion from the landfill , energy conservation/auditing , energy efficiency and other non-financial metrics . Goodwill increased its diversion from the landfill rate by three per cent in 2018 and by seven per cent in 2019 . <p> Capriles also forged several new relevant partnerships with the community in the Edmonton region . One relevant partnership is the one forged with Alberta Reads in 2018 . Thanks to this program , more than 1,000 books are donated on a monthly basis to children in Edmonton and Sherwood Park with the goal to improve literacy rates in Alberta . <p> Capriles is also responsible for the Goodwill Impact Centre in Edmonton . The Goodwill Impact Centre is an amazing concept in Edmonton where millions and millions of items are diverted from local landfills every year while providing training and employment opportunities to persons with disabilities in Alberta . <p> In his previous role as the regional director of sustainability at Fairmont Hotels and Resorts , his responsibilities included leadership of the sustainability program for the four resort properties that form Fairmont 's Canadian Western Mountain Region . During his term in this role , Fairmont Chateau Lake Louise was awarded the prestigious Emerald Award in the large business category for its sustainability program . During his term at Fairmont , Capriles implemented numerous new recycling programs and led the company 's effort to sharply reduce its environmental footprint in the Rocky Mountains . <p> Capriles holds an executive MBA , a bachelor 's degree in Geography , a diploma in hospitality management , and several postgraduate certificates related to sustainability , environmental planning and leadership . He also holds the Environmental Professional Certification awarded by Eco Canada and the Global Sustainability Practitioner certification ( CSR-P ) . <p> Capriles is fully committed to divert as much as possible from the landfill and to increase awareness in the community about the positive environmental impact of reusing and shopping second hand . As a result , he volunteers at the Emerald Foundation since 2018 to support the non-profit efforts to showcase the most relevant environmental achievements in Alberta , setting an example for all to follow . He has also volunteered for several years in the Great Canadian Shoreline Cleanup and in the Capital City Clean up . <p> Mitra Mohamadzadeh <p> Founder , Academy of ChangeCity : TorontoCountry of Origin : Iran <p> Mitra Mohamadzadeh is a survivor , high performer and influencer Kurdish woman from Iran who came to Vancouver with her teenage son , Mehrzad , in 2011 . She could barely speak a word of English . and diligently worked hard to learn English as her fourth language . In 2014 , they moved to Toronto , where she earned certificates in human resources at Sheridan College and ACCES Employment , and Canadian Workplace Essentials with OTEC , Toronto . <p> In 2015 , Mohamadzadeh survived a third car accident -- a wakeup-call that transformed her to find her unknowing strengths in that difficult time life . Despite the significant injuries and pain , she got her first job in Canada at the City of Toronto , as an HR clerk and was nominated as a resilient and positive attitude employee , and the 5th Annual Civic Run Achiever/Winner at the City of Toronto . <p> In 2019 , she is the co-author of the best seller Canadian Success : A Collection of Success Stories by Successful Persian Immigrants and the author of the upcoming book Walk with Myself : a Kurdish Woman 's Journey to Freedom featuring her personal and professional development system . This system helps immigrants at any level feel engaged with the world around them so they can live and work more effectively and productively . This book includes her inspirational stories of accepting and embracing change over adversity in Canada . She is also the co-author of the upcoming book Border Crossers : Where Positive Change Meets Positive Leadership . <p> She is also a member of Canadian Association Professionals Speakers ( CAPS ) , a member of Human Resources Association Professionals ( HRPA ) , a Toastmaster communicator , and founder of Academy of Change to help immigrants at all levels to achieve their personal and professional goals . She also helps organizations to take their executives and employees through the process of developing relevant multiculturalism skills to increase personal and professional growth , effectiveness , leadership , and create more positive change and productive workplaces . <p> On her 50th birthday on August 23 , 2019 , she registered a non-profit organization as Growth Centre , a non-profit coaching service and a coaches ' house to build teamwork under Growth Centre 's umbrella to support communities . <p> She has also volunteered her time to Dress for Success , Welcome Community Centers , Refugee Shelter , the Human Resources Professional Association , Toastmasters International , Ontario Society of Seniors Citizens Organization , University Settlement , JobStart Employment Services , and COSTI Employment Services . <p> Mike Hurley <p> Mayor of BurnabyCity : BurnabyCountry of Origin : Northern Ireland <p> Mike Hurley was born in Magherafelt , Northern Ireland , in 1958 and came to Canada in 1983 at the young age of 25 . Music and Gaelic football dominated his youth as did soccer , which advanced him to a semi-professional league . <p> He first settled in Vancouver and moved to Burnaby in 1988 . He joined the Burnaby Fire Department in 1988 . Throughout his career , he 's held many positions -- driver ; technical rescue team member ; hazardous material specialist ; instructor ; lieutenant , captain and acting assistant chief . <p> He was the vice-president of the Burnaby Fire Fighters Association from 1996-2001 and the president from 2001-2009 . He was also the president of the BC Provincial Fire Fighters Association from 2008- 2016 . <p> As president of the Professional Fire Fighters ' Burn Fund , he led the effort to raise $15 million to build a facility that accommodates families and burn unit outpatients for Vancouver General Hospital and BC Children 's Hospital . <p> His second " home " is with the Burnaby Fire Fighters Charitable Society . The society raises money for community groups and non-profit organizations , which supports more than 50 charities . More than $800,000 annually is given for bursaries and they operate a nutritional food program that benefits kids at 26 elementary schools , four high schools and four youth centres . <p> He was honoured to receive the Queen 's Golden Jubilee Medal in 2002 and the Diamond Jubilee Medal in 2012 . <p> He and his wife , Jennifer , have three boys who are in elementary school . He also has a daughter , who is attending Simon Fraser University . <p> Meryam Joobeur <p> FilmmakerCity : MontrealCountry of Origin : Tunisia <p> Tunisian-born writer/director Meryam Joobeur is a graduate of Mel Hoppenheim School of Cinema in Montreal . Her short film , Brotherhood , won the Toronto International Film Festival Award for Best Canadian Short Film at the 2018 Toronto International Film Festival and was nominated for an Oscar for Best Live Action Short Film in 2020 . She wrote and directed the 25-minute film , which follows the story of Mohamed , who is suspicious when his estranged eldest son Malek returns home to rural Tunisia with a mysterious young wife in tow . The emotional complexities of a family reunion and past wounds lead to tragic consequences . <p> The film has won 70 prizes at 150+ festivals across Canada and the world . <p> Prior to Brotherhood , she wrote and directed the short films Gods , Weeds and Revolutions ( 2012 ) and Born in the Maelstrom ( 2017 ) . <p> She is currently developing three feature films including the feature version of Brotherhood and has participated in the Berlinale Talent Lab ( 2016 ) TIFF Talent Lab ( 2016 ) and the Rawi Screenwriter 's Lab ( 2016 ) . <p> Massi Bakhshian , RN , was born in the small city in Iran with parents who taught her kindness , love and leadership at a young age . Weeks after she immigrated to Canada in 1999 , Bakhshian volunteered in a nursing home in Coquitlam , B.C. This role taught her many lessons about culture and family connections . <p> In 2007 , Bakhshian passed her nursing licensing exam and began working as an RN in different health care settings . ( nursing home , hospital and at a brain clinic . ) Having been involved in health care for more than 25 years , she has come across many situations where she questioned the system and the gaps for seniors . As a result , she started her own business in 2010 called Safe Care Home Support ( SCHS ) . SCHS provides nursing services , live-in caregiver support , palliative care , respite , post-hospital care , Alzheimer and dementia care . <p> SCHS started with three employees . Through her entrepreneurial spirit , she has expanded her services and employs more than 50 practitioners throughout the Lower Mainland of B.C. In 2019 , Bakhshian expanded her business to include a Caregiver Placement Agency to help families find a dedicated professional caregiver from a different country . In Spring 2020 , Bakhshian will be opening an Adult Cognitive Wellness Centre in Langley , B.C. , a dementia-friendly day program that uses a holistic wellness approach . <p> Watching what her father and mother went through because of her father 's dementia , Bakhshian has felt the pain and frustration of what their families experience . This motivated her to offer Dementia-Friendly Caf ? s in three communities with more communities opening soon in order to offer families an opportunity to connect and support with one another . <p> Bakhshian also serves her community by volunteering as much as she can . She 's an executive officer for CARP North Fraser and is a council member for the Simon Fraser Region -- Community Living B.C. In 2015 , she started the Langley Seniors &amp; Professionals Alliance and the Iranian Professionals Networking ( IPN ) . <p> SCHS was honoured to be chosen for first place on the Tri-Cities A List in 2017 and 2018 . Bakhshian was also the winner of the 2019 Women Influencers Award for the category Beyond the Call of Duty , by the Women 's Collaborative Hub Society . <p> Bakhshian plans to continue with her mission to end the stigma around dementia , and advocate and offer support for families affected by dementia . <p> Maryam Yaqoob <p> Doctor of Medicine ( M.D. ) studentCity : CalgaryCountry of Origin : Iraq <p> Maryam Yaqoob was born and raised in Iraq . She had a happy childhood and was inspired by the incredible women she read about in science class . However , in her early teens , she began to witness discrimination against women , but she always had the internal drive and fierce determination to become an influential woman like her idol Marie Curie . <p> In 2008 , as tensions grew in Iraq , Yaqoob 's family received threats that prompted them to flee their home in Mosul . The Yaqoobs fled to Syria , and Canada welcomed them as refugees . It was tough being a refugee in a new country , learning a different language and culture , but she quickly adjusted and excelled . In 2015 , Yaqoob became a Canadian citizen and , in 2017 , she was accepted into medicine at the University of Calgary . <p> Even while learning English , Yaqoob was earning academic awards in high school . In her undergraduate degree in cellular and molecular biology , she received a total of 15 scholarships . Yaqoob was on the Dean 's and President 's Honour Roll and her academic achievements invoked an invitation to join the Golden Key International Honour Society . At graduation , she had the privilege to speak as valedictorian and was chosen to receive the Centennial Gold Medal for extraordinary academics and leadership . She is a co-author of a study using cellular simulations for drug discovery , which has since been published in the Biophysical Journal . Currently , she is a co-investigator in a study that is measuring service inequities in palliative care . <p> In the community , Yaqoob became involved with the Calgary Catholic Immigration Society and was the co-lead for the refugee team at SHINE where she tutored and mentored incoming refugees as they navigated their new life . Concurrently , Yaqoob volunteered with ARBI , an association assisting those with brain injury and helped rehabilitate them to return to normal life . Through the Schaefer Mentorship Program , she mentors current university students who plan to pursue professional schools in Canada . <p> In 2018 , she co-founded Calgary STEM Cell chapter and partnered with the national STEM club initiative . Her chapter has now recruited more than 500 individuals to the stem cell registry . At every volunteering opportunity , Yaqoob wanted to make a difference in the world . <p> Yaqoob is now a clerk at the Cumming School of Medicine . She is grateful to have a vocation that allows her the opportunity to constantly grow personally and professionally , but also has a direct and positive effect on her community . <p> Marc Cohen <p> Co-founder and president at Leading Edge Orthotics LaboratoriesCity : Vaughan , OntarioCountry of Origin : South Africa <p> Marc Cohen is co-founder and president at Leading Edge Orthotics Laboratories ( LEO Lab ) , a state-of-the-art custom foot orthotic manufacturer , which is putting Canada on the map as one of the world 's pioneers in 3D-printed custom foot orthotics . <p> After moving to Canada from South Africa with his wife , Lauri , 11 years ago , Cohen joined a Canadian investment bank . Finding himself working 16-hour plus days and barely seeing his wife , Cohen decided he could make a greater contribution to the Canadian economy and provide a better life for his family by following the entrepreneurial route . <p> LEO Lab started in a garage almost eight years ago and grew to employ 10 people in the following years . Recognizing the industry to be highly competitive , Cohen researched innovative , disruptive technologies that could take the company to the next level . Following almost three years of research and testing , LEO Lab invested in a first of its kind large-scale 3D printing technology in Canada . <p> Cohen is proud of the fact that LEO Lab is one of only a handful of companies globally to have incorporated this cutting-edge technology within the custom orthotic industry . They are now broadening their scope of operations to include other orthopaedic products as well as products completely outside of the orthopaedic space . An example is the 3D printing of custom cranial helmets to treat young children with skull malformations . The product is designed to fit their head perfectly and provide real and measurable benefits . This early and precise intervention helps prevent these children from growing up with misshapen heads . <p> They are in discussions with potential European and U.S. partners to explore making a similar difference to other people in need , on an even larger scale . <p> Cohen has since launched an associate division called IDEATE3D . It partners with other innovators , inventors and entrepreneurs in bringing their ideas to fruition through 3D printing . <p> Agnes Thomas , Ph.D. , is the executive director of Catholic Crosscultural Services ( CCS ) , a Greater Toronto Area-based non-profit organization that provides programs and services assisting in the settlement and integration of immigrants and refugees . As the chief steward of CCS , Thomas is committed to driving impact for the 30,000 plus newcomers served by CCS yearly in their suite of programs and services . Thomas served in the not-for-profit sector for more than two decades locally and internationally . This includes her time at various L'Arche communities around the world , at the Yonge Street Mission , and the Jane/Finch Family and Community Centre . She also serves on a number of non-profit boards in Toronto . <p> Indian-born Thomas is a leading community development practitioner and academic with a passion for gender equity , community mobilization and transformation , and organizational change . She has been a long-time advocate for the rights of marginalized groups , both locally and internationally , championing the rights of immigrants , women , children , and people with in/visible disabilities or those in precarious employment situations . <p> In her leadership role , Thomas is committed to working with various partners to address issues of marginality to bring about transformational change in our communities by investing in people , shifting organizational cultures and diversifying partnerships . Her areas of expertise include immigration and settlement issues , community organizing , governance , policy , strategic planning , community-based research , training , micro-enterprise , and the creation of tools for transformative learning initiatives for organizations and community leaders alike . <p> Her passion for advocating for the rights of marginalized groups led her to complete and receive her Ph.D . in adult education and community development with an award-winning thesis from the Ontario Institute for Studies in Education ( OISE ) , University of Toronto . Her research examined marginality and learning in the realm of informal/cash work performed by immigrant women from Asia . With this study and other community-based research under her direction , she was able to conceive and implement inclusive learning frameworks and analytical tools to listen to voices that are not traditionally heard , nor understood . <p> Thomas was recognized as a Canadian South Asian Trailblazer and a champion for gender equity by the Council of Agencies Serving South Asians ( CASSA ) , an umbrella organization of agencies providing services to the South Asian community , to celebrate South Asian Heritage Month 2019 . She is a firm believer that everyone has something unique to offer and should be given every opportunity to participate and contribute tangibly to society . <p> Majid Bahrami , Ph.D. , is a professor and Tier 1 Canada Research Chair in Alternative Energy Conversion Systems at Simon Fraser University ( SFU ) . He immigrated to Canada in 1999 and obtained his Ph.D . in mechanical engineering from the University of Waterloo in 2004 and postdoc in 2006 . He joined the University of Victoria as a professor in 2006 , and moved to SFU in 2008 . <p> Bahrami has a vision : to utilize waste-heat and seize the power of new materials to develop energy storage , cooling and water-generating technologies with potential to change the world . He has an excellent record of technology transfer and proactively enables his inventions to benefit society . His inventions have opened new avenues for translational research , attracting worldwide attention . His latest invention , demonstrated to both Prime Minister Trudeau and Governor General Julie Payette , enables extracting sustainable supply of drinking water from the atmosphere . A first-of-its-kind prototype , his Hybrid Atmospheric Water Generation ( HAWgen ) harvests water from air , even in desert climates , by using only low-grade thermal energy such as solar heat and geothermal heat . HAWgen is recognized internationally ; Bahrami received the UAE ' MBR International Water Award in R&amp;D for this invention in 2017 . <p> Bahrami has filed eight patents and spun off two start-up companies . His company Watergenics was selected as a finalist for the Most Promising Pre-Commercial Technology ( 2016 ) by Technology Impact Award ( BCTIA ) . He is in the process of commercializing and taking the HAWgen technology to the market . <p> Since joining SFU , Bahrami has proactively engaged national and international industrial partners and researchers from a wide range of sectors to investigate issues around sustainable energy and water systems . He has established the world-class Laboratory for Alternative Energy Conversion ( LAEC ) at SFU and has attracted more than $30 million of research funding . He has made exceptional contributions to sustainable air conditioning , advanced sorption composites , thermal storage , electronic cooling , batteries , graphite heat exchangers and fuel cells . He has published more than 250 peer-reviewed articles in prestigious journals and conferences and trained more than 160 highly qualified personnel , including six professors . <p> Bahrami was inducted as a Fellow in the Canadian Academy of Engineering in 2019 for his key contributions to Canada 's engineering profession , specifically sustainable energy systems . In 2016 , the American Society of Mechanical Engineers ( ASME ) recognized him as a Fellow for his significant contributions to the field . He has also received Canada " Clean50 " Awards twice , in 2016 and 2017 , as an entrepreneur and for his contributions on sustainable energy and innovations . <p> After completing his master 's degree at Princeton University and doctorate at the University of Michigan , Mahesh K. Upadhyaya , Ph.D. , moved to Canada with his wife and daughter in 1978 . He worked as a researcher at the University of Saskatchewan for four years and then joined the University of British Columbia in 1982 , where he has worked for nearly 38 years , serving as a professor , associate dean and senator . <p> As a student , Upadhyaya received many scholarships , fellowships and awards , including the Golden Jubilee Gold Medal for obtaining first position in university , fellowships at Princeton University and the University of Michigan , and the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada Visiting Postdoctoral Fellowship . <p> Upadhyaya 's research has significantly advanced our understanding of plant ecophysiology and has provided information useful for Canadian agriculture . He has given talks on his research in many countries ( Czech Republic , United States , Canada , Poland , China , Thailand , Kenya , Malaysia , Indonesia , Philippines , New Zealand and India ) , has received several awards and recognitions , and has been made a fellow by four prestigious national professional societies in Canada , the United States and India . <p> In 2004 , he received the highest recognition ( Excellence award ) by his Canadian professional society . His book on the topic of non-chemical vegetation management is a useful source of information on environmentally friendly vegetation management strategies . He is currently working on three other books . <p> Upadhyaya is an excellent teacher and a passionate mentor . He has trained many students , from the undergraduate to doctoral levels , and researchers from around the world for nearly four decades . For his outstanding teaching , he was awarded the University of British Columbia 's prestigious Killam Teaching Prize in 2006 . <p> Upadhyaya has served his university , profession and community well . In addition to serving as an associate dean , director applied biology program and a senator , he has served as an associate or overseas editor of four research journals and has chaired or served on many significant provincial , national and international committees . For his service to his faculty , he was awarded the J.F. Richard Service Award in 2006 , which is given for " outstanding service beyond the call of duty . " <p> Upadhyaya has developed and nurtured international exchanges by serving as a university coordinator of the South East Asian Regional Cooperation Agreement ( SEARCA ) , which facilitates student exchanges among agricultural universities in the Asia-Pacific region and the University of British Columbia , and as a coordinator of the Dekaban Foundation , which administers faculty exchanges between six Polish universities and the University of British Columbia . <p> In addition to his interests in music and poetry , Upadhyaya is an active and engaged member of his community . He and his wife have hosted many international students and researchers at their home and assisted them in settling in Vancouver . He has also served as a director of the India Club of Vancouver , helping manage this cultural organization 's scholarship programs , career fests and walkathons for operation eyesight . <p> Krishana Sankar <p> Ph.D . researcher , University of TorontoCity : Brampton , OntarioCountry of Origin : Guyana <p> Krishana Sankar moved to Canada from Guyana with her mother and two sisters to pursue better educational opportunities and overall quality of life , after the passing of her father . Her transition from a hot Caribbean nation to a temperate environment like Canada was very challenging for her and her family . However , she was determined to pursue science while giving back to her community . <p> After only five years , Sankar became an award-winning and published Doctoral Fellow at the University of Toronto in the Faculty of Medicine . Her scientific research combines biology and engineering to better understand and improve a treatment for type 1 diabetes . During her Ph.D . studies , she collaborated with many groups , including Stanford University . Her research has been published in peer-reviewed journals and she has also authored more than 15 scientific articles and abstracts . She has won more than $100,000 in scholarships toward her scientific research . <p> Sankar is also a sought-after keynote speaker and science communicator who has presented at more than 30 events locally , nationally and internationally . She has been invited to speak at the prestigious American Diabetes Association , Diabetes Canada and Toronto Science Communication Conferences as a subject matter expert on how scientists should communicate their research effectively . <p> Because of the many challenges she faced , Sankar is a changemaker and founded several initiatives to improve quality of life of people living with diabetes , underrepresented minorities and mental health in higher education . <p> She founded the Canadian Diabetes UofT chapter to raise awareness and educate the public about diabetes . She led the community programs and was involved in making educational presentations for the community , which has been presented to more than 500 people . Diabetes Canada recognized the work done by her organization with a Volunteer of the Year award in 2014 . <p> Being a woman of colour and experiencing microaggressions , Sankar also co-founded the Women of Colour in STEAMM Canada , a grassroots initiative that advocates for and highlights underrepresented minorities in the science , tech , arts , math , medicine fields in Canada . <p> Lastly , Sankar founded GradWriteSlack , using the technological platform to fill the gap of writing and mental health support that graduate students need while completing their academic studies . She singlehandedly runs this group , which grew to more than 500 academics worldwide in 15 or more time zones . She has helped more than 20 trainees complete their Ph.D . dissertations in the short time since she founded the group . <p> Kris Ontong works in the marketing department of a luxury window and door manufacturer in Steinbach , Manitoba . As graphics and media coordinator , his key duties include looking after the company website and their e-commerce portal for dealers . He also assists in internal communications , and provides informational support to sales managers , dealers and architects . <p> In 2017 , Ontong took on the role of president of the Southeast Manitoba Filipino Association ( SEMFA ) , where he revitalized the organization with projects that helped newly arrived Filipino immigrants get settled and integrate more effectively with the local community . After Ontong , Kris co-founded the Eastern Manitoba Broad Alliance for Cultural Enrichment ( EMBrACE ) , an umbrella organization of the region 's various ethnocultural groups . EMBrACE aims to give the steadily growing multicultural population a stronger voice in the community . As its founding vice-president , he spearheaded the production of a video montage for International Migrants ' Day , and a well-received multicultural art exhibit in early January . <p> In 2019 , Ontong was named to the board of directors of the Manitoba Filipino Street Festival . He was also appointed to the executive board of the Filipino Music and Arts Association of Canada , Inc ( FMAACI ) . In that same year , Ontong embarked on a personal project to get the vote out for the provincial and federal elections . He interviewed candidates from the three major parties to let them explain the electoral process and the differences in party platforms . This endeavour attracted the attention of CBC Manitoba , which invited him to their morning radio show and then to their Election Night coverage to be among the in-studio reactors as the election results came in . <p> For his active community advocacy , Ontong was among the awardees in the 2019 National Filipino-Canadian Heritage Event . He was also nominated for the Community Service category of the third Golden Balangay Awards , a nationwide search for outstanding Filipinos in Canada . <p> Among his various roles though , Ontong is most passionate about Barangay Canada , a media project that he co-founded with colleagues based in the different provinces . Inspired by his SEMFA stint where he noted key factors that empower newcomers to successfully integrate and thrive in their respective locale , Barangay Canada 's main activity is to visit newcomer groups in rural areas to learn and share how they are building a life in Canada . By sharing this knowledge , these communities will hopefully be able to connect and support one another like a " barangay , " the Filipino term for a small self-supporting village . In Manitoba , Ontong manages the provincial chapter known as Barangay Manitoba . It can be found as a media blog on Facebook , and on print media as a column in the Manitoba Filipino Journal . <p> Kanwar Dhanjal moved to Canada in 2007 and started Just Instruments Inc. in 2008 . He has been successfully running the company in the sector of instrumentation in Canada and has been achieving growth every year . An entrepreneur and a highly experienced technocrat from India , he has vast experience in the field of industrial instrumentation and automation , providing full service of sales , repairs , calibration and automation solution for process control instrumentation . He provides state-of-the-art control and automation solutions with honesty , integrity and creativity . <p> He has been a life member of the Indo Canadian Chamber of Commerce in Toronto since 2009 , serving as president in 2017-2018 . Previously , he also served as its director for trade and commerce ( 2018 ) and SME and trade ( 2017 ) . He was also the chair of its annual gala in ( 2015-2016 ) and its energy committee ( 2012-2014 ) <p> He led a business delegation to different parts of India , and signed MOUs with TCPI , Gujarat Chamber of Commerce . He also led the business delegation with Prime Minister Justine Trudeau to India . <p> Dhanjal is also a director on the Brampton Board of Trade and currently chair of its trade and investment committee . With the Brampton Board of Trade , he visited Turkey to attend the Kocheilli Expo , Arab Health Show in Dubai and more , and participated in various receptions for delegation visiting Brampton from Pakistan , India , Ukraine and Turkey . <p> Dhanjal has also been a member of the City of Brampton 's economic development master plan committee , the Rotary Club of Brampton , and the executive member of the fundraising committee for Big Brothers Big sisters of Peel -- Brampton <p> He received the Face of India award by Colours of India ( 2014 ) ; a recognition award by My India in Canada Association ( 2018 ) ; a recognition award by Trade Promotion Council of India ( 2019 ) ; Kotler Award , Canada in excellence services award ( 2019 ) ; Influential Technocrat Award by IMEC , Canada ( 2019 ) . He as also featured in the top 75 Punjabis across the world in Jewels of Punjab . <p> Joaquin Manay <p> CG artist , The Vanity VFXCity : TorontoCountry of Origin : Uraguay <p> Joaquin Manay ( aka Joey ) was born in Uruguay and came to Canada in 2003 . He graduated from Brock University in 2013 with a BA in VISUAL ARTS and graduated from the visual effects postgrad program at George Brown College in 2017 . Manay has worked as a part-time professor at George Brown College teaching 3D visualization and is currently working as a CG artist for The Vanity VFX . Along with The Vanity Team , he has worked on commercials for national and international agencies , such as the International Olympic Committee , Pathways to Education , Sick Kids , Hockey Canada , Wendy 's and Best Buy , to name a few ( http : //thevanity.tv/ ) . <p> Manay is also involved in the community through facilitating beatbox workshops that empower others to find their voice . <p> ? As an artist , Manay strives to achieve personal development by exercising various methods of creation . These include visual arts with traditional , digital and 3D media as well as motion and sound . He has worked with many organizations as an exhibiting artist , instructor and performer . These organizations include Unity Charity , Art Gallery of Ontario , the Station Gallery , Robert McLaughlin Gallery , Turn-Around Project , Beatbox Canada , Surrey Place , the Livingroom Community Art Center , the City of Oshawa and many others . Manay encourages others to join him by exploring their own creativity . He was awarded the Oshawa Culture Counts Emerging Artist Award in 2019 . <p> Jean Roberth Souza is science project coordinator at Compute Canada . As such , Souza is responsible to provide project management support to Compute Canada programs , its partner organizations , as well as to corporate activities related to advanced research computing ( ARC ) across 40 research universities in Canada . <p> Souza joined Compute Canada in December 2015 . Previously , he had been academic information technician at C ? gep Heritage College ; membership coordinator for the Global Organization of Parliamentarians Against Corruption ( GOPAC ) ; Global Affairs Canada international scholarship program manager for the Canadian Bureau for International Education ( CBIE ) ; and client tracking officer for the Information and Communications Technology Council ( ICTC ) . <p> Souza speaks English , French , Portuguese ( mother language ) Spanish , and German . He earned an MBA on corporate communications at UPIS Brasilia , Brazil ( 2007 ) . He earned a BA in communications / public relations from UniCeub Brasilia , Brazil , in 1989 . He has a Certificate of Teaching English as a Second / Foreign Language ( TESOL / TEFOL ) granted by the American Brazilian Bi-national Cultural Center Casa Thomas Jefferson in Brasilia , Brazil ( 2005 ) . <p> Souza is a very active volunteer member in the newcomers ' community in Ottawa / Gatineau . His daily posts through social media sharing a wide range of opportunities ( volunteer work , free language training , cultural activities , and job fairs ) have been assisting thousands of immigrants and many success stories have become possible due to this share of information . In June 2018 , he received the Welcoming Ottawa Ambassador Award by Mayor Jim Watson and the Ottawa Local Immigration Partnership ( OLIP-PLIO ) due to his voluntary work connecting immigrants through social media . <p> In 2017 , Souza was selected to represent Brazil in the " MyCanada150 " Photo Exhibit on Sparks Street , Downtown Ottawa , on the Multiculturalism Day celebrations in Canada ( June 27 , 2017 ) . This photo exhibit was organized by the Global Shapers organization displaying success stories of newcomers in Canada . <p> Jason Pang has been at the forefront of environmental initiatives in Richmond and beyond since high school . As an immigrant from Hong Kong , he grew up in Richmond , B.C. , and is currently studying toward his bachelor of science in global resource systems at the University of British Columbia . <p> Pang 's passion for environmental sustainability began through his high school 's green team . He noticed the drastic division in conservation efforts between the City of Richmond and his hometown back in Hong Kong . When he transferred to Richmond Secondary in 2016 and found that there was no active environmental club , he re-started one himself and became its president . Under his leadership , the Richmond High Green Team has launched a number of initiatives , from raising his school 's waste diversion rate from 28 to 44 per cent , starting the district 's first Solar Energy initiative , and leading his city 's first climate emergency strike . <p> As the president , Pang was also a team leader with the City of Richmond 's Green Ambassadors . The group made up of local high school students , organizes a variety of environmental initiatives , including the annual Richmond Earth Day Youth ( REaDY ) Summit , waste diversion programs at city events and activities aimed at preserving local native habitats . As a Green Ambassador team leader , he spends considerable time planning monthly symposiums , in an effort to further develop the group 's student leadership and educate his peers about pressing environmental issues . <p> 2019 is Pang 's first year in university where he has become his family 's first-ever post-secondary student made possible by UBC 's Centennial Scholars Major Entrance Award and the Beedie Luminaries Scholarship . On campus , he is the elected first-year student representative for the Faculty of Land and Food Systems entrusted in voicing the concerns and opinions of all first-year students to enhance their first-year experience . Pang leads the first year committee in the planning of student events based on faculty bonding , academic support , professional development , environmental sustainability , health and wellness . <p> A rising star like Pang shines not only through the leadership positions he has taken on , but also through the relentless strive that sets himself apart from other youth his age . While still only 18 years of age , his genuine passion and his committed involvement within the youth and the environmental community have made him an inspirational figure to many . He is enthusiastic about the environment , strongly advocates for sustainable change , and models the way for others to be part of a greater impact on environmental sustainability as one of Canada 's Top 25 Under 25 Environmentalists awarded by Starfish Canada and one of the world 's Top 30 Under 30 Environmental Educators awarded by the North American Association for Environmental Education . <p> James Baker <p> CEO , Keynote GroupCity : OttawaCountry of Origin : Englad <p> Originally from England , James Baker relocated to Canada in 2006 as part of a team to launch a global recruitment business in Ottawa . After spending more than a decade in the industry , Baker founded Keynote Group in September of 2015 , as a solution to what he saw as a broken recruitment industry . <p> As an industry leader in executive search , Baker has been asked to deliver presentations , workshops and participate on panels at some of the most popular conferences and events , including the keynote address at Ottawa 's Talent Summit in 2019 . He is very active in the community and sits on the advisory board for the Ottawa Board of Trade , the Family Enterprise Xchange ( FEX ) and a cabinet member for the Queensway Carleton Hospital Foundation . He has been recognized for his achievements and success in Canada and was recognized by the City of Ottawa in 2018 when he was presented the Immigrant Entrepreneur of the Year . <p> In addition , Baker has been the recipient of a Young Entrepreneur Award from the West Ottawa Board of Trade in 2017 , and he was a Forty Under 40 recipient from the Ottawa Business Journal in 2012 . Since the company 's creation , Keynote Group has been highly awarded and recognized for its innovative approach to executive search and headhunting under Baker 's leadership . Among other accolades , Keynote Group was named Best New Business in 2016 from the Ottawa Board of Trade , recognized as Ottawa 's #1 Fastest Growing Company in 2018 and #4 in 2019 by the Ottawa Business Journal . <p> Jakub Martinec <p> Artistic director , Atlantic Boychoir and National Boychoir of CanadaCity : St. John 's , Newfoundland and LabradorCountry of Origin : Czech Republic <p> Jakub Martinec , Ph.D. , is director of choral activities at Memorial University of Newfoundland , the founding artistic director of the Atlantic Boychoir , the first provincial choir of boys and young men in Canada , and the artistic director and conductor of the National Boychoir of Canada ( NBCC ) . <p> Martinec holds a Ph.D . in music education from the University of Western Ontario and his research focuses on a comparison of European and North American perspectives on choral conducting as well as investigations of early Czech choral literature , and pedagogical strategies for teaching adolescent male singers . <p> Born in the Czech Republic , he was the artistic director of the renowned Czech Boys Choir . Martinec has recorded for national TV and radio in the Czech Republic , and has directed on numerous CDs and DVDs ; his recording of Britten 's A Ceremony of Carols received a Recording of the Month award by the London-based Classical Music Web in 2004 . <p> Martinec has performed with eminent orchestras , ensembles and musical personalities in some of the world 's most famous concert halls and cathedrals , including Meistersingerhalle , N ? rnberg , Germany ( 2005 , 2009 , 2011 , 2017 ) , Grace Cathedral in San Francisco , USA ( 2004 ) , Winspear Hall in Edmonton , Canada ( 2006 ) , Massey Hall in Toronto , Canada ( 2012 ) , the Pantheon and the Basilica Santa Maria Maggiore in Rome for the leaders of the Vatican ( 2009 , 2010 ) , Truro Cathedral , UK ( 2013 ) and regularly at the Rudolfinum Dvorak Hall and Smetana Hall in Prague . With his choirs , he performed the opening concert of choral cycle of the Czech Philharmonic Orchestra ( 2006 ) , and has appeared at numerous international music festivals including the Prague Spring Festival ( 2004 , 2005 ) , European Festival of Youth Choirs " Giuseppe Zelioli " ( 2003 , 2012 ) , AmericaFest International Festival for Boys ' &amp; Men ' Choirs including the VIth World Choral Symposium in Minneapolis ( 2002 ) , Festival d'Ambronay ( 2006 ) , Mitte Europa ( 2008 , 2009 , 2013 ) , and the highly acclaimed World Festival of Singing for Men and Boys ( Prague , Hradec Kralove , 2004 , 2008 ) . <p> Israa Hilles was born in Abu Dhabi to a Palestinian family from Gaza Strip . She has a bachelor 's degree in human resources management from the University of Cambridge in Egypt and worked in Development Alternative Inc . DAI-USAID in Palestine , before moving to the U.S.A. to study entrepreneurship and small business development . She is an International Visitor Leadership Program ( IVLP ) alumni . Her background education opened a few doors for her and qualified her to lead various management and leadership positions such as managing partner , public relations manager and office manager . That was a total of 15 years of management experience . <p> Hilles always wanted to move to Canada . For her , Canada is a secure , multicultural country that believes in human rights and that encourages industrious , creative and innovative people to pursue their goals . She had always wanted to live here and open up a business here . So , in January 2015 , after completing her studies in the U.S.A. , Israa packed her bags again and headed north . She visited Toronto , Ottawa , Quebec City and Halifax , and finally decided to settle in Montreal . She fell in love with the city and found everyone so helpful and cooperative . As a young single woman with no family or support network in Montreal and no knowledge of French , the odds were stacked against her . This certainly was not easy at first ; however , she was up to the challenge . <p> Currently , Hilles is the founder of Escritoire , a thriving co-working space in Montreal where entrepreneurs , young business owners , and freelancers innovate , collaborate and transform great ideas into successful businesses . <p> Hilles is very proud to say that in 2018 , she won the OSEntreprendre Challenge award ( Montreal region ) as well as the Futurpreneur Canadian Entrepreneur of the Year award in recognition of her leadership , business savvy and contribution to the entrepreneurship community . <p> She believes that like most immigrant entrepreneurs , she needed help and guidance to enter the Montreal business market . Hilles advises newcomers to keep an open mind , be positive and patient with yourself because change and success take time . She encourages them to volunteer as much as they can and to focus on their goals . <p> Isaac Garcia-Sitton <p> Director of International Education &amp; English Language Institute at York UniversityCity : TorontoCountry of Origin : Spain <p> Isaac Garcia-Sitton is a respected leader in the higher education sector and a seasoned MBA with more than 17 years of experience in international relations and business development . Born in Barcelona , raised in Panama , and trained and educated in the United States , Garcia-Sitton served as a diplomat for Panama , working at the Consulates in New Orleans in 2005 and in Montreal in 2007 . At the end of his diplomatic post , he decided to apply as an immigrant to Canada through the skilled worker program in Quebec . <p> Currently , he is the director of International Education &amp; English Language Institute ( YUELI ) at York University 's School of Continuing Studies . During his tenure , YUELI became the largest university provider of Academic English training in Canada , with annual enrolments of 3,600 from over 50 countries . Under his direction , YUELI has risen in reputation both in Canada and globally ( securing 100+ partnerships internationally ) as a provider of English language training to students interested in continuing their education or those with international work experience who wish to gain a foothold in the Canadian labour market . These efforts continue to position Toronto and Canada as one of the best study-abroad destination in the world . <p> Garcia-Sitton continuously strives to improve the environment around him through his involvement in national and international professional associations , international boards and community initiatives . He was named as one of the 10 Most Influential Hispanic Canadians of 2018 , a recognition organized by the Hispanic Business Alliance . In 2016 , Garcia-Sitton was the only Canadian recipient of a scholarship from the Organization of the American States and Instituto de Empresa to complete a Global Senior Management Program , co-created by the University of Chicago Booth School of Business and the IE Business School . <p> In 2015 , Garcia-Sitton was recognized by the Salvadoran Government with the Ministerial designation " Amigo de El Salvador , " for his continued dedication to social development initiatives in support of low-income individuals . He has been invited to speak at international meetings and conferences to share his experiences and opinions on topics such as diversity and inclusion , the art of doing business in Latin American , and international education . <p> He is currently pursuing a Ph.D . in education : language , culture &amp; teaching at York University . His research interest is the role of cities in attracting international students and the differences and intersections that post-secondary institutions ' internalization strategies play in supporting these efforts . <p> Harsh Thakkar is an accomplished professional and business leader with more than 10 years of experience in managing regional and global operations across a broad array of industries : language service industry , telecommunication , sports within the public , private and non-profit sectors . <p> Throughout his career , he has developed and led high-performing teams , improved business performance , and directed strategic projects and initiatives to accelerate revenue growth . Always leading with positivity and collaboration , Thakkar is a charismatic leader with desirable people management skills . <p> Thakkar 's journey from international student in 2001 to Canadian immigrant has been incredible as he came across wonderful people who gave him opportunity to learn , grow and inspire . He completed a Diploma in Business Administration and Degree in Entrepreneurial Leadership . As a student , he was elected campus representative for two years where he raised awareness on reducing student fees , becoming a voice for students at the Parliament in Ottawa . <p> He also served as a peer mentor for international students on settlement issues , and organized several campus events for students from different countries highlighting their culture . <p> Professionally , he worked with the Vancouver International Marathon Society in a managerial role to promote the marathon event and increase tourism to B.C. He then worked in the American Sign Language industry for seven years managing call centres in British Columbia that provide ASL services to Deaf and hard-of-hearing individuals . <p> Today , he is the leader behind the interpretation and translation social enterprise at DIVERSEcity Community Resources Society . He leads a team of several full-time employees plus 300+ contractor interpreters and translators . Under his leadership , he has grown the business and expanded its offerings to include diverse languages , including many rare ones , ASL and even Indigenous languages . His goal is to help organizations , both public and private , to communicate with newcomers and marginalized communities without barriers . In a country as multicultural as Canada , no one should be left out of the conversation or lack a voice in arenas such as the courts and health care in particular . He recently led a successful proposal to become a designated provider for provincial and municipal government interpretation and translation needs . <p> As a social enterprise , proceeds from DIVERSEcity Interpretation and Translation Services benefit the non-profit programs and services offered at DIVERSEcity . Its proceeds have also allowed DIVERSEcity to create an Innovation Fund that allows its leadership team to pursue innovative programs for marginalized communities that may fall through the cracks of traditional funding . <p> If that did n't keep him busy enough , Thakkar also leads DIVERSEcity 's CELPIP/CAEL Language Testing Centre , a language test newcomers take to prove their English for their immigration and citizenship applications ( CELPIP ) , and post-secondary admission ( CAEL ) . <p> Thakkar has also been an active volunteer for Canadian Cancer Society -- " Sirf Dus " program to raise awareness in the South Asian community to increase awareness about cancer prevention . In 2011 , he organized a fundraising campaign " Students for Homeless " and raised more than $5,000 to provide care packages to homeless individuals across Lower Mainland . <p> He aims to continue giving back to the community and motivate newcomers through his journey . His motto is " It Takes One to Help Another . " <p> Hamza Haq <p> ActorCity : OttawaCountry of Origin : Saudi Arabia <p> Named a Canada Rising Star by the Hollywood Reporter in 2017 , Hamza Haq stars as Bashsir " Bash " Hamed in the new CTV medical drama Transplant . The series centres around an ER doctor who fled his native Syria to come to Canada where he must overcome numerous obstacles to resume a career in the high-stakes world of emergency medicine . <p> In 2018 , Haq appeared alongside William Shatner and Russell Peters as twins Amal and Gopal in the CTV mini-series Indian Detective , and earned critical acclaim as Raza Ali in the CBC drama This Life , for which he earned a 2018 Canadian Screen Award Nomination for Best Guest Performance . Other notable credits include recurring roles on the Cinemax series Jett opposite Carla Gugino , Quantico starring Priyanka Chopra , and The Art of More with Dennis Quaid and Kate Bosworth . <p> He has also appeared in Designated Survivor , The Bold Type , Being Human , and Best Laid Plans . He hosted two seasons of the International Emmy Award nominated children 's series Look Kool and plays Jassie on the CBC Gem digital original drama The 410 . <p> On the big screen , Haq holds supporting roles in Bon Cop Bad Cop 2 with Colm Feore , The Death And Life Of John F. Donovan directed by Xavier Dolan , Darren Aronofsky 's Mother ! and Run This Town , detailing the turbulent final year of Rob Ford 's tenure as the mayor of Toronto . Most recently , he appears opposite Margaret Qualley in the My Salinger Year which opened the 70th Berlin International Film Festival in February 2020 . <p> Raised in Ottawa , Haq is youngest of four siblings born in Saudi Arabia to Pakistani parents and has called Canada home for almost 20 years . He holds a bachelor of arts in film studies with a minor in law from Carleton University . <p> Francyelle Fernandez <p> Nurse practitioner and Adjunct professor , University of TorontoCity : London , OntarioCountry of Origin : Brazil <p> Francyelle Fernandez is a nurse practitioner ( NP ) at London Health Sciences Centre who focuses on the care of palliative patients and their families in the acute care setting . In this position , her role is to treat pain and provide symptom management while working in a multidisciplinary team . She also takes pride in affecting change by educating nurses , mentoring and advocating for NPs and addressing gaps in services . Fernandez also is a NP member of the Drugs and Therapeutics Committee where she reviews policies , reviews and approves formulary medications and medical directives among other responsibilities with a team of physicians and pharmacists amongst others . <p> Fernandez was born and raised in Porto Alegre , Brazil . She came to Canada in 2003 to pursue her professional career . However , this was not without challenges as Fernandez had to learn English and support herself . Within a short time , she secured employment with housekeeping and nannying while studying English . After several years , she enrolled in the bachelor of science in nursing program at Ryerson University . During her third year , she returned to Brazil with an interdisciplinary team after receiving a grant from the Association of Universities and Colleges of Canada to ascertain the causes of violence in vulnerable communities as a knowledge exchange project . Upon her return , she continued to volunteer at the Oshawa Cancer Centre where she assisted patients undergoing treatment . <p> Fernandez 's drive was relentless , and she furthered her education by attending the University of Toronto , where she completed her master 's of nursing and adult nurse practitioner degree , while working as a registered nurse in the emergency department at Lakeridge Health , Oshawa . <p> By being multilingual and having experience as a landed immigrant , Fernandez wanted to contribute to the Portuguese-speaking community . She did this by researching and publishing a paper on the impact of social supports for breast cancer management among women in this community . Additionally , she was invited to speak on Omni TV in Portuguese , educating about influenza and vaccinations as well as the role of the nurse practitioner . <p> After 17 years in Canada , she is now proud to be working as a nurse practitioner as well as holding an appointment as an adjunct professor at the University of Toronto , which allows her to be an advocate for change both clinically and academically . <p> Federico Rosei <p> Professor and UNESCO Chair and Canada Research Chair , Institut National de la Recherche ScientifiqueCity : MontrealCountry of Origin : Italy <p> Born and educated in Italy , Federico Rosei served his birth country as an officer in the navy and published an award-winning novel entitled La Strada Non Percorsa ( the title is a literal translation of " The Road Not Taken " ) in 2000 . <p> He earned a PhD in physics in 2001 from the University of Rome " La Sapienza " ( one of the oldest Universities in the Western World ) , then joined Institut National de la Recherche Scientifique in Montreal as assistant professor in 2002 . He climbed the ranks at record speed , being promoted to full professor in 2009 . He served as director of its Centre for Energy , Materials and Telecommunications between 2011 and 2018 . <p> A prolific scientist , Rosei has co-authored more than 340 articles in prestigious international journals . His research is widely respected globally , as he has been invited to speak at more than 320 international conferences and has given more than 240 lectures at universities and 60 professional development lectures in 45 countries on all six continents . Committed to outreach , he has given more than 40 public lectures on the " Energy Challenge " and co-authored a TED-Ed animation ( https : **38;326;TOOLONG ... on the same topic , viewed more than 842,000 times in two years . <p> Rosei advocates for a global approach to societal development through education , scientific research and innovation and giving opportunities to young scientists , regardless of their background or origin . His service to different international professional communities is matched by his effort to mentor and train the next generation of scientists and engineers and foster diversity . He supervised more than 150 trainees from 41 countries , many of whom received prestigious fellowships and awards and obtained leading positions both in science and in society ; 19 former trainees are professors in 11 different countries , including five in Canada . Capitalizing on his vision , talent and leadership , he created the UNESCO Chair in Materials and Technologies for Energy Conversion , Saving and Storage , whose objective is to obtain access to sustainable energy for all by sharing knowledge in emerging energy technologies . Launched in January 2014 , it established a worldwide network that pushes the boundaries of science to address pressing societal challenges towards a global culture of peace and sustainable development . <p> Elected Fellow by more than 20 prestigious national academies and professional societies ( including the Royal Society of Canada ) , Rosei has received more than 40 prestigious national and international awards and honours , including : a Senior Canada Research Chair , the NSERC Steacie Fellowship ( received from the Governor General of Canada ) , the Rutherford Medal ( Royal Society of Canada ) , the Polanyi Award ( Canadian Society for Chemistry ) , the Khwarizmi International Award ( Iran ) , the Vasconcelos Award for Education ( World Cultural Council ) , the Chang Jiang Scholar Award ( China ) , the John Wheatley Award ( American Physical Society ) , the Blaise Pascal Medal ( European Academy of Sciences ) as well as prominent prizes , medals , distinctions and honorary professorships from Australia , Bangladesh , China , Germany , Iran , Mexico , Singapore and the U.S.A. <p> Faryal Diwan <p> Social planning associate , Social Development Centre Waterloo RegionCity : Waterloo , OntarioCountry of Origin : Pakistan <p> Faryal Diwan is a social planning associate at Social Development Centre Waterloo Region , where she researched , led and created a mapping displacement project on affordable housing , and displacement lost due to gentrification . Presently , she is the only one in the region collecting this data , which she hopes will direct policy change for affordable housing . Through this work , she hopes to advocate for equitable housing , which is severely needed here and in other parts of Canada . Building a tightknit community is everything to her . She believes being present and supporting community members and fighting for each others ' rights is what makes us stronger . It 's a commitment she made to myself when she moved to this region . How can you thrive in a community if you 're not a part of it , she asks ? <p> She volunteers for and supports many organizations in Kitchener-Waterloo ranging from the arts , climate justice to human rights . She is a board member for Feminine Harbor ( not-for-profit organization that creates safe and equitable spaces for women of different generations/cultural backgrounds so they can share their stories ) , a member of Coalition of Muslim Women ( empower Muslim women and girls to be leaders and change makers ) and community engagement coordinator for Bring on the Sunshine ( BOTS ) ( to create a positive community space for people of African descent ) . <p> In addition , she volunteers for Wellbeing Waterloo Region , Neruda Arts , MT Space , Green Light Arts , sits on three committees for City of Waterloo , and is on the social inclusion group at Immigration Partnership . Previously , she has volunteered for Reception House as an english tutor for their English Outreach for Women initiative and as part of their arts program , and YWCA mentoring high school students through a social justice lens as part of their Community Sheroes program . Mentoring youth has been a rewarding experience for Diwan . <p> She also started a Salsa for Seniors program that ran in 2017-2018 at the Kitchener Downtown Community Centre . Diwan was one of 10 recipients of the Greenbiz Emerging Leader award in 2018 . <p> Fariba Pacheleh is a passionate and high-performance leader specialized in integrating and delivering project management and information technology solutions for strategic success . <p> She started her career as a hardware engineer in Iran and after moving to Canada has worked in diverse industries and driven transformational solutions while navigating through highly complex and regulated businesses in public , private , and government sectors . <p> Her background in technology and leadership roles enables her to stay alert to disruptive landscape and ensure business is ready to respond to rapid changes in the industries and cultural shifts while keeping a laser sharp focus on strategic objectives . <p> She 's worked for a number of international companies such as Siemens and Finning , and now finds herself at the BC Liquor Distribution Branch ( BCLDB ) where she serves as the director of Project Management Office . <p> Pacheleh 's strengths reside in her ability to provide teams with vision , values and guidelines to enable them making the best possible decisions to advance the organizations ' objectives . <p> Throughout her career , she has invested a lot of time and energy giving back . As an immigrant woman in STEM , Pacheleh has been actively advocating for diversity , inclusion and equity in the Tech Industry . <p> As a national leader of the Gender Equality Network Canada ( GENC ) , she has worked with a pan-Canadian network of 150 women leaders to advocate for policy change , build inclusive intersectional leadership , and take collective action to advance gender equality in Canada . <p> As the chair of BCIT School of Computing PAC ( Program Advisory Committee ) , she works with technology leaders in B.C. to provide strategic advice and assistance to BCIT to retain its reputation and strengthen its place . <p> Pacheleh has been involved in many other organizations that support immigrants and women in technology . She 's been president of SCWIST ( Society for Canadian Women in Science and Technology ) where she made a presentation to the House of Commons on the Status of Women with focus on equity and equality gaps in STEM field , founder of IEBCA ( Iranian Engineers of BC Association ) , board member of many other organizations , and speaker in a wide range of events . She 's worked with the WEB Alliance of Women Business Network , United Way , WiredWoman Society , Unicef Canada and Engineers Without Borders ( EWB ) . <p> Eno Eka is a business analyst and change manager based in Calgary , Alberta . She is an award-winning career coach and speaker who has been recognized for helping more than 1,000 immigrants kickstart their professional careers in Canada . She is a business analysis content developer and course instructor at the University of Manitoba . <p> She is the head coach and principal consultant at Eny Consulting Inc . <p> Eka volunteers as a mentor with Helping Other People Succeed ( HOPS ) , Calgary Region Immigrant Employment Council ( CRIEC ) and is a study group leader with IIBA Calgary . <p> She also volunteers at the Calgary Drop-in Centre and Calgary Dream Centre . She is a Giving Back Sponsor for Women in Need Society ( WINS ) . <p> Eka is the Linkedin Group Manager- Canadian Business Analysts and Project Managers Network &amp; Canadian Professional Immigrants Network and Facebook Group Manager- Business Analysts Network where she provides support to immigrants in Canada . <p> She is the host of the podcast , Career Talk with Eno and Chichi , where she shares valuable insights on job search tips and strategies for new immigrants . <p> Her awards and achievements include : <p> Forbes 30 under 30 nominee 2020 , Education Category <p> Calgary Top 40 under 40 nominee 2019 <p> Universal Women 's Network , Winner 2019 Award for Mentorship <p> Globally recognized and featured by the IIBA for the CBAP Journey Campaign <p> Host of the Global Business Analyst Online Meetup <p> IIBA Global Corporate Member <p> IIBA Endorsed Education Provider for all IIBA certifications <p> Authorized Training Partner for Agile &amp; Scrum through ScrumStudy <p> Finally , she launched the Business Analysis Accelerator Coaching Program where she is helping 1,000 professionals start their business analysis careers . <p> Emilia Matei was born in Romania . At 43 , she emigrated to Canada with her husband and daughter . They settled in Windsor , Ontario , to be close to her brother , but nevertheless she was nervous about what their relocation would bring . <p> In Romania , she graduated from university with a degree in finance and accounting . She was an economist , then a general manager of a large trading company , and the budget and finance manager at the City Hall . Her background and the accounting courses she attended at St. Clair College in Windsor helped her to find employment at one of the most successful automotive companies in Windsor . She has been an accounting clerk with this company for 15 years and she is still happy to be part of this wonderful team . <p> When she lived in Romania , volunteering was not common . But in Windsor she discovered a dynamic culture of volunteering . Her first volunteering position was at the Tecumseh Museum , which was very meaningful . She learned about the history of this land and its people , and became confident that their new life in Canada would be good . <p> It was a busy time : She was going to school , taking care of her family , volunteering , looking for a job and going to the Romanian Church on Sundays to meet people from her community . At church , she learned about the Romanian Cultural Association " Graiul Romanesc " ( " The Romanian Voice " ) , which was founded in 1929 by the first Romanians who arrived in Canada . In 2010 , she was elected treasurer and then president . The association fosters a strongly knit community through numerous events : arts exhibitions , Canada Day , the National Day of Romania , Halloween , International Women 's Day , New Year 's Eve , literary events and concerts . They also participate in church events and multicultural festivals . They invest the funds raised into their children , by awarding bursaries for post-secondary education , and their community through donations to churches and to newly arrived families . <p> In her 10 years with the association , her goals have been to bring the community together , showcase their talents and achievements , and contribute to the wellbeing of those around her . <p> Dr. Henry Reis is a Brazilian-trained ophthalmologist who immigrated to Canada with his family in 2013 after successfully completing his optometric licensing process . Dr. Reis worked as an associate doctor before acquiring Integra Eyecare Centre in 2014 . He transformed it into an innovation hub , launching new technologies in Canada such as virtual reality vision therapy , intense pulsed light and radiofrequency for dry eye disease , among others . <p> The unprecedented growth of 552 per cent in revenue and more than 20,000 new patients has driven him to build a world-class multidisciplinary eyecare centre in Vancouver , which will open in 2020 . Considered a leader in his field , Dr. Reis was the recipient of 2018 J&amp;J Canada Top 40 under 40 and finalist of 2019 BBOT Businessperson of the Year . He has given talks across Canada , Europe and South America on cornea , retina and glaucoma . He has worked as a consultant for nine medical companies and has led five research projects since 2014 . He is also the chief medical advisor for I-MED Pharma , a Montreal-based pharmaceutical company . <p> Dr. Reis is the co-founder and CEO of OSDx , a Vancouver-based company that developed the first artificial intelligence corneal imaging device in the world . OSDx employs Canadians from coast to coast , from AI programmers in Montreal to medical engineers in Victoria , and anticipates launching its medical device in the first quarter of 2021 . <p> His devotion to his profession motivated him to serve as BCDO vice-president and chair of the telemedicine committee for two years , when he promoted enhanced access to eyecare for seniors and rural communities . He has also volunteered with the Foundation Fighting Blindness by organizing fundraising events for retinal research , and TWECS ( Third World Eye Care Society ) by donating optical equipment and eyewear while sponsoring staff in missions to Peru and the Philippines . <p> Dr. Henry Reis strongly believes that those who come from far and wide and achieve the dream of immigrating to Canada should strive to give back to this beautiful nation and its people . For that reason , he has worked tirelessly to create new jobs in healthy and progressive workplaces , offer state-of-the-art eyecare services to an ever-expanding number of patients , push his profession forward by mentoring colleagues , and position Canada at the forefront of medical innovation . Above all , his greatest achievement is having his son , Benjamin , and his wife , Daniela , call Canada home . <p> A graduate of the School of Hotel Management and Culinary Arts in India , Divakar Raju began his career at the Taj Group of Hotels as a chef . In the time since , he has worked around the world and is a certified food professional . In 1998 , Raju moved to Toronto , where his career progressed from positions in the Canadian hotel services toward food services in the retirement industry , and he joined the Delmanor ( Tridel ) Team in 2011 . <p> For nearly a decade , Chef Divakar , affectionately called Chef D among the Delmanor community , has brought his passion and dedication to the Delmanor Team . He began working at the Northtown Delmanor Community before being promoted into the role of corporate manager of culinary services in 2015 . As the Delmanor brand and community has grown , Raju has risen to every occasion , providing fresh , healthy and unique food options on each menu and setting forth the highest standards amongst his peers and his team . Raju strives to create a healthy corporate culture and increase the visibility of senior focused cuisine . <p> Working to spread the word about the benefits of such culture , Raju has penned articles for Delmanor itself and other key industry publications like Nourish Magazine for Sysco National , Canadian Restaurant and Food Service Magazine , and Resto Biz . <p> He works to pay it forward to meaningful charitable organizations and inspires others to do better and give back . <p> Raju mentors his chefs and fellow food service professionals , including those who are new to Canada , helping them gain their Canadian credentials ( such as obtaining their Red Seal Chef Certification ) . He provides personal attention as someone with an intimate understanding of what it is like to be new to the country , allowing them to thrive and meet their personal and professional goals . <p> As part of a new partnership with the Toronto Police , Chef Divakar Raju is working with Pro-action Cops &amp; Kids and the Falstaff Community Centre , and launched the Growing Chefs Youth Program . The program is designed to teach kids the basic and essential skills of a prep chef . Partners hope to introduce the participants to the culinary arts with the hopes of igniting a passion for cooking . But we also seek to go beyond the culinary world and hope to instill in each youth , life lessons that will transfer to any profession or endeavour . <p> Conny Lo came to Toronto in 1997 with two suitcases and limited funds . She had never been to Canada but she was destined to make her mark and a difference in her new home . <p> After a successful advertising and broadcasting career in Hong Kong , cultural differences and language barriers made it impossible for Lo to work in mainstream media . Finding a job where she could use her persuasive and creative talent was proving to be difficult . <p> With depleting savings and feeling unfulfilled , Lo decided to turn to volunteering . Giving back was an important part of her 's upbringing , and she knew that she could create a feeling of belonging through volunteering . She became the first Chinese speaking St. John Therapy Dog Volunteer . She and her dog -- who was multilingual -- generated much buzz and interest in the community . <p> Lo 's path was not always clear , but she knew the importance of helping new Canadians integrate into the mainstream . Lo wove this belief and her personal experience into her work . She knew the inertia that could be built communicating with people in a way that was familiar and inviting . <p> Lo brought this insight to both corporate and charitable enterprises . For Heart and Stroke , she restructured communication tools and redesigned an annual Health Symposium to include Mandarin sessions . She created multi-language communication platforms for Scotiabank , but what fed her soul was stewardship of the bank 's philanthropic giving . <p> In 2013 , Lo joined SickKids Foundation ( SKF ) . She was charged with leading the fundraising and promoting global child health in the Chinese community . An uncharted path , but Lo came to the table with a story and a passion that was irrefutable . <p> In 2012 , Conny lost one of her twin sons to a congestive heart defect . Although swathed in grief , she turned her pain into something positive and therapeutic . Lo chose to give back and engage her community . She shared her story with others , she rallied her two young children to raise funds in memory of their brother and she continues to work relentlessly and passionately for SickKids . <p> Today , the Baby Caden Koo Memorial Fund has raised almost $200,000 . Lo continues her charitable work and is driven to help new Canadians find their path . <p> Ciragh Lyons <p> Creative director , Pegasus Community ProjectCity : TorontoCountry of Origin : United Kingdom <p> Ciragh Lyons is the creative director of Pegasus Community Project , a non-profit providing activities and services to adults with developmental disabilities . Her job is to create opportunities for our participants to engage with the community , participate in the arts , have fun , and be fabulous . <p> One of her greatest professional achievements is PIFF , an annual film festival for adults with developmental disabilities . PIFF is a glitzy red-carpet event where everyone shows up looking like movie stars , but the big night is only the tip of the iceberg . The festival is the culmination of months of planning , preparing , filming , editing and anticipating . When the red carpet unrolls , everyone who walks or rolls down it worked hard to get there . Her vision is to empower the disability community by providing opportunities to create and star in movies . They started off with just Pegasus participants , but now have eight agencies submitting movies . More are interested in joining for the fourth annual PIFF this fall . <p> Another event Lyons created is the annual Pegasus Fashion Show . They partner with makeup students to get the models catwalk-ready . Her goal is to use wider community connections to make the disability community more visible , more active and more normalized . She wants to transform people 's impression of folks with disabilities from THEM to US . <p> Before Lyons became a permanent resident , she was a professional volunteer . It was important for her to connect with her new home in Toronto . She volunteered with eight different organizations , getting to know folks and neighbourhoods all over the city . <p> For example , she worked as a counsellor with the Rape Crisis Line . After a period of training , she answered calls on eight-hour shifts , often overnight . Those who called were seeking services , advice , and often just an empathetic ear as they talked through recent and past traumas . <p> She relived her teaching roots as a tutor for Pathways to Education , helping youth from low-income communities with their homework or projects . <p> She created Miss sui Generis , a free style-consultancy for trans women enabling them to build confidence presenting themselves to the world . I saw a need for trans women , especially those transitioning or recently transitioned , to get help finding styles and clothing that worked for them . <p> She also helped build Elephant Space , an afternoon program using board games to engage and informally counsel youth . When the organization started , she was there on the ground floor as volunteer coordinator . As the organization grew , Lyons became the vice-president of the board of directors , helping build Elephant Space into a successful non-profit . <p> Entrepreneur , leader , philanthropist and best-selling author , Bruce Poon Tip , is the founder of G Adventures , an award-winning small group adventure travel company and pioneer of community tourism . <p> G Adventures is the world 's largest small group adventure travel company , with 28 offices worldwide . It hosts 200,000 travellers per year , offers more than 750 tours , and travels to 100 countries -- across all seven continents . <p> His first book , Looptail : How One Company Changed the World by Reinventing Business , was released in 2013 and became a New York Times Best Seller . In 2018 , Poon Tip was honoured as one of Canada 's Most Admired CEOs in the category of social entrepreneurship . <p> Last year , he was granted an honorary doctor of Laws from Capilano University and made his top 10 debut on Glassdoor 's Top CEOs in Canada list . <p> Bola Adesope is a passionate business transformation consultant , who combines expertise in supporting businesses across several continents solve complex business problems and deliver value to their customers and stakeholder , with a passion for human and economic development . <p> Adesope has consulted for big and small organizations across Africa , Europe and North America such as Bell Canada , delivering strategic and transformational programs . <p> He also has passion for human and community development . This passion , upon seeing the challenges and struggles of new immigrants , led him to co-found a social enterprise called Helping Other People Succeed ( H.O.P.S ) , a platform that is dedicated to helping professionals , particularly immigrants settle in , launch their career and contribute to the economic development of Canada through free mentoring , coaching , training and mindset change . <p> The Nigerian-born strongly believes that immigrants play very strategic roles in advancing Canada 's economy , and since founding H.O.P.S with his longtime partner and friend , they have supported a community of more than 1,000 immigrant professionals across the country and beyond . <p> Some of the other initiatives he has launched under Helping Other People Succeed include : <p> Career Hacks , a free quarterly career workshop and seminar with hundreds of people in attendance . <p> ACCELERATE : A 30-day free coaching and mentoring program where he has provided free one-on-one mentoring and coaching to more than 250 professionals to date . <p> Career Brainstorming : A monthly online information session where he provides guidance and insights on a career or business topics to audience from all over the country and beyond . <p> Adesope also leads free agile and product development workshops for students in York University through an initiative called unhack , a hackathon where university students solve complex real-world problems within a short period of time . Besides leading workshops for these students , he also serves as a mentor and judge during the competition . He is also a mentor with TRIEC . <p> Adesope has been invited to speak at conferences and events for professional institutions and organizations across North America and beyond . He has also appeared on podcasts and shows across Europe and North America , won Strategy Development Competition 2015 , and his articles and papers have won best article of the year 2018 and best article of the month of May 2017 on BA Times and PM Times respectively . <p> B.K. Sethi , immigrated to Canada in 1972 . He earned an MBA in marketing from Central Michigan University , and his career has been focused on sales , product management and marketing . <p> During his weekly grocery shops , Sethi struggled to find the foods and authentic brands he grew up with . He saw a great opportunity to cater to newcomers and immigrants by providing them the food and brands they were familiar with . Within only 10 years , his " ethnic " brands could be readily found in most of the major chains across Canada . Ethnic foods have expanded from 4ft in 1982 to full two central aisles , accounting for over 200ft of the store . <p> Sethi expanded his business to cover all Canada with offices and warehouses in Vancouver , Edmonton , Toronto and Montreal , employing 50+ people across Canada and serving 1,500+ stores . He has always provided job opportunities to immigrants , giving many of them their first job in Canada , allowing them the chance to gain Canadian experience . His support expanded to entrepreneurs as well . His representation of their brands gave many small entrepreneurs exposure to the mainstream retailers and an opportunity to grow their brands in Canada . <p> Over the years , Sethi became an expert in ethnic food . His area of expertise was unique and he was approached by major multinationals , including Unilever , Kraft , Heinz , Cadbury , Robin Hood Multifoods , Dairy Farmers of Canada , SIAL-Canada and others to consult for them . Realizing the importance of sharing his knowledge , several of his articles were published in business media and he 's spoken at conferences and marketing seminars focused on the opportunities and challenges in ethnic markets . <p> Sethi is the recipient of the following awards : <p> Business Excellence Award , Scarborough Chamber of Commerce ( Board of Trade ) <p> GRAND PRIX award for his India House brand <p> Appointed ethnic expert at SIAL-Canada , world 's largest food show producers <p> Sethi is a member of the advisory council of OMNI/ROGERS TV on ethnic programming , member of the Toronto Board of Trade , director and senior advisor SME at Indo Canada Chamber of Commerce , member of Food and Consumer Products Council of Canada and an active member of Hindu Cultural Society in Scarborough . <p> Sethi is regular contributor to many Canadian charities such as the Hospital for Sick Children , Canadian Cancer Society and Cystic Fibrosis Canada to name a few , understanding the importance of giving back to the country that gave him so much . <p> Bilal Hydrie <p> President and CEO , Inclusive Energy Ltd.City : CalgaryCountry of Origin : Pakistan <p> Bilal Hydrie , president and CEO of Inclusive Energy Ltd. , has a proven knack for ingenuity , hard work , leadership and business success . He came to Canada from Pakistan 17 years ago where he completed his studies and started Inclusive Energy . Since then , Hydrie has been involved in many ventures , started several successful entities and has served as a board member and advisory for reputable publicly traded TSX companies such as Pennine Petroleum and i5 Capital . <p> Noticing the high entrepreneurial spirit in Alberta , Hydrie founded a private equity firm called Global Centurion Investments in 2017 . This firm was established with one goal in mind -- devotion to assisting new startups to build a strong foundation and get their first step off the ground . <p> Through the tough economic times , Hydrie was recognized several times in the industry for assisting companies to stay afloat . During the downturn , Inclusive Energy purchased distressed assets from companies in need of immediate capital . This benefited both Inclusive Energy , and the businesses struggling during the economic downturn . <p> Hydrie and his company Inclusive Energy are heavily involved in giving back to the community . This is evident in many ways , including sponsoring international students in the oil and gas , energy sectors by offering room and board , and internship opportunities at Inclusive Energy . <p> He has also supported and spread awareness in Canada about the Pakistan Deaf Reach Foundation , a school built especially for the deaf and blind orphan children who do not have the resources to flourish in countries where they are often not accepted in society . <p> Hydrie has offered many students with opportunities to study abroad , as he strongly believes that the future of the province lies with the up-and-coming generation . Other recent sponsorships include the Calgary Youth Singers , Calgary Energy Executives Association ( CEEA ) , Toy Mountain , and ongoing contributions to the Calgary Petroleum Club as a Legacy Club member . <p> Hydrie demonstrates independent leadership by being involved in clubs such as the Calgary Petroleum Club , the Calgary Chamber of Commerce , among others . He has been recognized as an industry leader by the Chamber of Commerce and has been featured as a cover story for both the Business in Calgary and Business in Edmonton magazines . <p> Basavaraj Halli <p> CTO , GoFor Industries Inc.City : OttawaCountry of Origin : India <p> Indian-born Basavaraj first arrived in Toronto on a temporary work permit in 2011 , his first assignment was to design software for an industrial printer . The family 's initial plan was to experience Canadian living and winter , and return to India . However , the ever-charming Canada and the warmth of the Canadians made Halli and his family fall in love with Canada and they acquired permanent residency in 2015 . <p> Soon after , Halli 's entrepreneurial skills and instincts started blossoming in Canada . He co-founded GoFor Industries Inc. , which provides last-minute , last-mile delivery services to the construction industry , a major backbone of the Canadian economy . The company is a unique success story of Canada 's welcoming immigration policy , which laid the foundation for a successful partnership between an immigrant and a local , Brad Rollo . <p> The company has had an exceptional success as a startup and has attracted millions of dollars in funding from top tier VCs in North America . It has rapidly established itself as a leader and innovator in this segment , listing elite customers , such as The Home Depot , Home Hardware , Dulex and Sherwin-Williams . GoFor now has expanded its operations in 12 major urban markets in Canada as well as the U.S.A. and employs more than 60 people . Apart from enhancing the efficiency in the construction industry through its most innovative last-mile delivery services , GoFor is also helping an additional 500 drivers to earn their daily livelihood through its marketplace . GoFor has been recognized by many awards , such as Best Ottawa Business Awards , 2019 . Halli now serves on the board of GoFor as well as its CTO . <p> " My mission is to innovate , develop and adopt technology to offer seamless and enjoyable experience in every aspect of human life , " says Halli , who also serves as an advisor to Competitive Value Guide , a company focused on enhancing innovation in medium and large enterprises . He also serves in leadership roles in many Indian community forums , such as in Kannada Sangha of Ottawa , which brings together Kannada-speaking people in Ottawa . It 's been an amazing journey for Halli in Canada with his share of failures and success . His entrepreneurial spirit , leadership skills , tenacity to achieve success , ability to make friends and desire to build lasting partnership with local Canadians has helped him in building a highly successful global business . <p> Arlene Ruiz , the proud owner of Alexene Immigration &amp; Employment Services Inc. and an ICCRC and CAPIC member , has been practising as a licensed immigration consultant and recruiter since December 2013 with the office situated in the heart of Saskatchewan , Saskatoon . <p> Ruiz immigrated to Canada in 1994 from the Philippines . Having gone through the immigration process herself , she understands the complexities of the process . With her dedication , she provides all aspects of recruitment and immigration services to Canadian employers and organizations through finding reliable , suitable and qualified workers to fill labour shortages in their organization . In addition , she provides immigration services to foreign nationals that intend to come to Canada either to study , work or become permanent residents . <p> Ruiz attended Saskatoon Business College in 1997 where she took Computer Accounting Technician Diploma and graduated with honours . In 2012 , she took the one-year Immigration Consultant Diploma through Ashton College in Vancouver and completed the course and graduated with honours distinction . Ruiz is a big advocate on promoting the welfare of others not only through monetary value but also by rolling up her sleeves to push for a better community . She actively participates in the community by supporting charitable organizations such as ANCOP ( Answering the Cry of the Poor ) , Make a Wish Foundation and the Children 's Wish Foundation . She is an active member of the Business Network International-Business Elite Network Saskatoon , Women Entrepreneurs of Saskatchewan and Greater Saskatoon Chamber of Commerce . <p> Very recently , Ruiz received the Consumer Choice Awards 2020 in the category of immigration consulting . She has also been recently named as one of the Top Finalists for the Saskatoon Achievement in Business Excellence Awards ( SABEX ) in the Entrepreneur of the Year category with the gala taking place April 24 , 2020 . SABEX awards are Saskatoon 's premier business awards , honouring businesses in the community that exemplify high performance , quality and achievement . <p> Ruiz 's passion for helping others is very evident whenever she speaks about her job . Family reunification is very important for her and sees her profession as an opportunity to help families fulfill dreams -- and it 's right in her business slogan " Helping families fulfill dreams . " <p> Annie Chua-Frith is a mother , grandmother , business owner and writer in Edmonton , Alberta . She came to Fort McMurray , Alberta under the Live-In Caregiver Program , which gave thousands an opportunity to become permanent residents and reunified with their family . <p> Before migrating to Canada , she had a bachelor 's degree in psychology from the prestigious Centro Escolar University in the Philippines . Right after graduation , she started working in an international freight forwarding company and did many travels to Asia where she learned about the caregiver program in Canada . <p> She decided to go to Canada in order to give her children a better place to live and create a new life . Although settling in Canada was harder than she imagined , it has given her much more than she expected . She continues to learn new things , confront new challenges and enjoy new experiences . With this optimistic ambition , she did not realize that she will become more than a caregiver , but she established her own businesses , Assured Cargo International Ltd. , and Voyable Travel and Tours Inc. and became involved in Alberta 's Filipino Canadian community . <p> Her involvement became bigger and wider that it inspired her to write her own journey and published her book in 2015 called Domestically Yours : A Caregiver 's Inspiring Journey . She wrote this to inspire many of her " kababayans " ( countrymen ) and it became a bestseller in Amazon under elder care category in 2015 . Her immigration story has something in common with countless others -- heartbreaks and hardship . With overcoming adversities , she says she 's an example that Filipinos are resilient and persistent . <p> Being an active member of Filipino Canadian organizations gave her an opportunity to give back , raise funds , attend conferences and give speeches to various schools to empower children and help them to settle in their new country . She is currently president of the Philippine Bayanihan Association in Alberta , a non-profit organization in Alberta since 1968 ; Golden Balangay Awards Host Ambassador in Alberta ; committee member of Philippine Business Society of Alberta ; member of the Philippine Arts Council ; volunteer of Edmonton Philippine International Centre ; Former PRO of Vismin Association of Edmonton ; former president of Millwoods Vocabolaires Toastmasters Club . <p> She was also the winner of Most Outstanding Worker " Manggagawang Pilipino " of 2017 , Golden Balangay Awards ( Toronto ) . <p> Anjum Sultana <p> National director of public policy &amp; strategic communications , YWCACity : TorontoCountry of Origin : India <p> Recently named a 2020 Global Woman of Distinction by the NGO Committee on the United Nations Committee on the Status of Women , Anjum Sultana is an internationally recognized advocate for progressive public policies to create a more just and equitable society . Sultana has international development experience in Ghana , Kenya and Tanzania and has co-authored peer-reviewed research articles focusing on health equity , mental health and global health . <p> Currently , Sultana serves as the national director of public policy &amp; strategic communications at YWCA Canada , the nation 's oldest and largest women 's serving organization . The YWCA Canada Federation has 32 member associations and works in 300 communities across the country . Sultana is also the founder of Millennial Womxn in Policy , a grassroots organization and community of practice that connects more than 3,000 young women and non-binary people working in policy across North America and Europe in civil society , politics , private sector and public service . Since 2018 , the organization has hosted over 12 events in cities across Canada including Halifax , Montreal , Toronto , Ottawa and Vancouver . Sultana is active in the Muslim community and has volunteered with organizations such as the Canadian-Muslim Vote and the Muslim Youth Fellowship . <p> Sultana serves on the boards of the Regent Park Community Health Centre , Toronto Environmental Alliance and the Council of Agencies Serving South Asians . She is also founding advisor of Progress Toronto and served as Canadian delegate at the 2019 G7 Youth Summit in Paris , France . Sultana sits on several research , organizational and policy advisory committees including being a strategic advisor for KimboCare , an online platform to enable health care access and reduce financial barriers in Global South nations . Sultana is part of the Global Shaper Community , which is affiliated with the World Economic Forum and a member of the Toronto Hub . She is also part of the Ontario Council for International Cooperation 's Gender Equality and Youth Policy-Makers Hubs . <p> Sultana holds a master 's in public health from the Dalla Lana School of Public Health at the University of Toronto . Previously , she served as the executive co-director of IMAGINE , an interprofessional medical clinic and health promotion initiative affiliated with the University of Toronto . She has received several awards to celebrate and honour her community service and civic leadership including the 2019 Frances Lankin Inspiring Leadership Community Service Award by Social Planning Toronto and the International Women 's Day Award of Excellence by Punjabi Community Health Services . <p> Anil Thapa <p> CEO , Yashaswi EntertainmentCity : TorontoCountry of Origin : Nepal <p> Anil Thapa is founder and CEO of Yashaswi Entertainment , a media house which has produced an ethnic radio show on the Canadian Multicultural Radio 101.3 FM in the Great Toronto Area since 2005 . He also organizes many events ( concerts , professional networking gatherings , mini-film festivals , trade shows , film screenings , cultural festivals and sports ) to promote Nepali culture within Canada . <p> His radio show " Namaste Radio ; Voice of the Nepalese Speaking Communities " educates and entertains Canadians with the rich Nepalese culture , heritage and music , and promotes local Nepali entrepreneurs , artists , community leaders and organizations in the Great Toronto Area and beyond . <p> He is also currently a marketing and operational head of Everest Realty Ltd. , a real estate brokerage established by Madan Chhetri and which is the first Canadian brokerage run by Nepalese people . <p> He is also engaged in several Canadian organizations to help the health sector , schools and women 's empowerment in Nepal and to integrate newcomers into Canadian society . Currently , he is an advisor in several Canadian organizations and the Nepalese Canadian Cricket Club , to promote youth through the sports . <p> In 2015 , two major earthquakes hit Nepal and killed more than 10,000 people , leaving several hundred thousand of people homeless . Under Thapa 's leadership in the national organization of the Canadian Nepalese people ( NRNA-Canada ) , they raised more than $150,000 to support victims of the earthquake . They worked very closely with the Canadian government , the Nepalese Honorary Consulate Office in Toronto and the Nepal Embassy in Ottawa to support Nepal in rehabilitation and reconstruction projects . They established a separate desk for Nepal at the Canadian High Commission in India to look after the victims and the family members of Canadian Nepalese , whose cases were expedited for their reunion with loved ones . Many Nepalese organizations including Thapa are lobbying with the Canadian government to open a trade and visa office in Kathmandu . <p> Thapa was given several awards in Canada for his dedication and volunteer services . In 2017 , the City of Mississauga honoured him with their highest civilian award " Citizen of the Year . " <p> Before moving to Canada from Nepal in 2005 , Thapa was a helicopter airlines pilot and flew hundreds of hours to rescue and export goods in the rural and remote terrain of the Himalayas . <p> In December 2005 , his story was covered by the Toronto Star Newspaper in a full page spread and he was interviewed by several other ethnic and mainstream media . <p> Ananya Mukherjee Reed immigrated to Canada in 1995 and joined Canadian academia as a professor . Over the last 25 years , she has emerged as a widely recognized female visible minority leader with top roles in two of Canada 's largest universities in Ontario and B.C. In Ontario 's York University , she was dean of a faculty with 23,000 students from 123 countries . Currently she is provost and vice-president academic , University of British Columbia ( UBC ) Okanagan -- a fast-growing campus of one of the world 's top 40 universities . Mukherjee Reed 's leadership to UBC Okanagan in its pursuit of academic excellence and student success is seen to have a profoundly positive impact and is deeply appreciated by the academic community . With the persistent lack of diversity and female leadership in the uppermost echelons of Canadian academia , these are tremendous achievements . <p> Mukherjee Reed obtained her Ph.D . ( political economy and public policy ) from the University of Southern California , and her BA and MA in economics from Jadavpur University , India . Her scholarship focuses on people-centered development . She has authored and edited several books , published in journals , reports and in popular media . At York University , Mukherjee Reed became the founding director of the International Secretariat for Human Development ( ISHD ) , which undertook research with community partners on people-centered social change . She led ISHD 's collaborations with global institutions such as the International Labour Organization , Geneva ; the UN Office for Project Services , Rome ; the UN Development Program ; the UN Research Institute for Social Development ( UNRISD ) etc . Her current research ( with UNRISD ) examines the role of universities in overcoming inequality . <p> Mukherjee Reed 's volunteer work is extensive . She has untiringly mentored countless students and newcomers to overcome many challenges , and continues to do so . A talented translator and orator , Mukherjee Reed promotes the work of the Indian Nobel Laureate Rabindranath Tagore to the Canadian mainstream . Performed in prime venues in Toronto , these events have attracted large multicultural audiences . She has commented frequently in the media and has been interviewed by the Toronto Star , Los Angeles Times , Seattle Times , BBC online , The Hindu , Radio France , TV Ontario , the CBC , OMNI TV etc . <p> Mukherjee Reed was named as one of five Immigrant Women of Inspiration ( Canadian academia ) by Canadian Immigrant magazine in 2016 . She received the Skills for Change Pioneer of Change award ( Excellence in Social Impact category ) in 2016 ; the Distinguished Alumna Award of the Jadavpur University Alumni Association in Toronto ( 2018 ) ; and the Desi Achiever award by Desi News , 2012 . <p> Alma Arzate is currently a global director , supply planning at Apotex Inc . She has more than two decades of broad leadership experience across global supply chain and operations in the automotive , electronics , medical devices , cpg and pharmaceutical industries . <p> Despite her sometimes hectic professional and personal life , Arzate makes the time to actively support supply chain , education , women and immigrant-related initiatives . <p> From the supply chain standpoint , she contributes as a board advisor for Supply Chain Canada . Arzate has helped execute successful education events that brought together over 150+ supply chain professionals for development and networking . In May 2019 , Arzate was a guest speaker at Supply Chain Canada 's " Future Leaders : Talent in Supply Chain " , which drew 100+ attendees . Her story was shared on the cover of the October 2019 edition of Supply Professional magazine . <p> On the education front , Arzate was the Keynote Speaker for 60+ students from the Schulich School of Business in September 2019 . In November 2019 , she was a panelist for more than 80 students from George Brown College . Arzate also supports the student body of the Rotman School of Management ( UofT ) , Conestoga College and Wilfried Laurier University . Alma was granted the Mentor Leader Award in 2019 by CSPN . <p> From the women in leadership perspective , Arzate leads by example and presses for women advancement as part of the founding core team of Apotex Inc. ' s WIL Initiative . In March 2019 , she was selected by Supply Chain Canada as part of their first-ever " Top 100 Most Influential Women in Canadian Supply Chain . " She was also keynote panelist for 120+ women at the " Take the Lead : Women in Supply Chain " in September 2019 in London , Ontario . <p> On immigrant-related initiatives , Arzate was the keynote speaker at ACCES Employment in August 2019 for 50+ internationally trained professionals , to help ease their integration into the Canadian work environment . She has been a mentor and friend to several immigrants that have reached out to her on a 1:1 basis over the years for advice and support . Most recently , the president of Supply Chain Canada asked Arzate to act as a chair for the National Selection Committee , as part of their new initiative to recognize " Canadian Immigrants Impacting Supply Chain " in 2020 . <p> Originally from Chihuahua , Mexico , Arzate relocated with her family to Canada in 2007 . She resides in the GTA with her husband , their three children ( ages 12 , 14 and 20 ) , their dog , and their rescued 12-year-old tabby cat . <p> Ajibola ( Jibs ) Abitoye was elected as a councillor for the City of Fort Saskatchewan , Alberta , in October 2017 , five years after immigrating to Canada from Nigeria . <p> Abitoye was born in Lagos , Nigeria to a journalist father and an information technology mom . She moved from Nigeria to Fort Saskatchewan in 2012 after getting married to her husband , Joshua . She has a bachelor of science degree in economics from the University of Lagos and is certified as a project management professional and a fourth class power engineer from NAIT . <p> Her previous work experience includes project cost controller at Dow Chemical , financial services representative at the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce ( CIBC ) , and credit risk analyst at the Guaranty Trust Bank in Nigeria . <p> Abitoye has volunteered on the Family &amp; Community Support Services Board , Navy League Cadet and as the chair of the Fort Saskatchewan Multicultural Association within her first year of immigrating to Canada . In 2017 , she decided to take her involvement within her community to another level by running for city council . She ran against 14 incredible candidates and emerged with the third highest votes . She currently is serving a four-year term as city councillor until 2021 . <p> In November 2019 , she started a fashion line called Divineity Fashion , after she had her daughter . It was borne out of a need to economically help women in her country of origin , Nigeria . In 2017 , the family went back home to visit grandparents . She saw the economic condition in some areas and wanted to do something about it . She decided to start designing clothes and get them produced in Nigeria , thereby bringing business to empower women and families . A portion of the profit also goes to a local organization in Alberta supporting victims of domestic violence . <p> In February 2020 , she had the rare privilege of showcasing her collection at the prestigious New York Fashion Week , only three months after starting her fashion line . She showed eight designs on the runway with other designers from various parts of the world and has had a lot of success after that . She has been featured on CTV , Global Edmonton , CBC and various newspapers and radio stations , among others . <p> She also mentors young immigrant girls to be a better version of themselves and is a committed worker in the church . She does all these things while being married and having three kids aged five years old and younger . <p> Ali Tootian landed in Canada on March 13 , 1999 , as an immigrant with wife and son . He held a B.Sc. in engineering , but went back to school and received a professional teaching certificate from Simon Fraser University and later received a master 's in secondary mathematics . He is currently a math teacher at Gleneagle Secondary School in Coquitlam , B.C. <p> Beyond his classes , he established the Table Tennis Club and became the champion of B.C. high schools . He also established the Math Contest Club and helped Gleneagle rank among the top 50 Canadian high schools in national and international math contests . He also established the STEAM Club at the school , the first of its type in the district . He also established an Iranian Parent Advisory Council at Pinetree Secondary School , where he worked from 2004 to 2009 . <p> In 2013 , he established the Farhangian Educators Association , a registered not-profit organization to help with K-12 concerns of Iranian-Canadians . He invited several teachers and researchers and prepared and published the first Farsi as a second language set of non-religious and non-political textbooks ( four books and two practice-books so far ) in Canada . York District in Toronto is one of the first users of the books , and Greater Vancouver Farsi program will start using it next year . <p> Tootian also prepared and presented educational workshops such as " Bullying at Schools " and " Tutor Training " for newcomers . He provided free counselling to parents and students who are new to the Canadian education system and seek help with registration , course taking , post-secondary education , and more . <p> In the community , he has been a member of the board of directors of Burnaby Multicultural Society , a member of the steering committee of Burnaby Ethnocultural Advisory Council , and a member of the board of directors of the CIVIC Association of Iranian-Canadians . With CIVIC , he helps in preparing and holding educational events such as all-candidate meetings to teach others about their responsibility toward elections and civic duties in Canada . <p> Aishwarya Khanduja <p> CEO , LoopEducation Inc.City : CalgaryCountry of Origin : India <p> Aishwarya Khanduja 's gift in service to the world is a connection to those most in need , using her entrepreneurial ambition to build commercial solutions for social justice and public health . Inspired by her lived experience , Khanduja founded the non-profit First Generations Organization ( 1GO ) , which is a national ambassador providing support , advocacy and outreach to disadvantaged high school students . Building upon this success and wanting to make a long-term sustainable solution , the 22-year-old founded a social enterprise startup , LoopEducation Inc. , an academic strategy and consulting company , where she is able to create an ecosystem by employing post-secondary students as strategists , who are able to leverage their lived experience and acquire meaningful work experience , while providing disadvantaged high school students with crucial services at an accessible rate . <p> While helping other students actualize their potentials in an organic entrepreneurial capacity , Khanduja is passionate about maternal and child health , and during her undergrad , developed a diagnostic tool to differentiate between two hypertensive disorders of pregnancy . <p> Inspired by witnessing wait-times as a hospital volunteer for eight years , Khanduja developed a Patient Care Transition ( PCT ) Score . Patients denied critical care is untenable for the modern age , so she developed a rubric that can be integrated into a usable technology for hospital staff to determine whether a patient requires a bed at triage . This idea won Top 5 at World 's Challenge , resulting in a probable pilot and app development . <p> Currently , Khanduja is working in the biotech space by using bluetooth mesh network technology to rid Canadian hospitals of pagers , along with a prototype for a personalized nutrition monitoring device that would screen and analyze an individual 's metabolic data through urinalysis . She is the epitome of someone who is able to clearly see leverage points within systems in order to innovate . Khanduja will spend the next year at the University of Cambridge commercializing her biotech and healthcare implementation prototypes at the intersection of biomedical science , law , and business , while completing her master 's degree . <p> Khanduja has been invited to speak at the Canadian National Perinatal Research Meeting in 2018 and 2020 about her work on pregnancy disorders . She has been invited to share her story of equitable access to quality education in a TEDx talk and the Global Youth Leaders Summit . She is a Top 20 Under 25 , Top 30 Under 30 , 2x Immigrants of Distinction finalist , NEXT36 finalist , and a true social innovator . <p> Agnes Thomas , Ph.D. , is the executive director of Catholic Crosscultural Services ( CCS ) , a Greater Toronto Area-based non-profit organization that provides programs and services assisting in the settlement and integration of immigrants and refugees . As the chief steward of CCS , Thomas is committed to driving impact for the 30,000 plus newcomers served by CCS yearly in their suite of programs and services . Thomas served in the not-for-profit sector for more than two decades locally and internationally . This includes her time at various L'Arche communities around the world , at the Yonge Street Mission , and the Jane/Finch Family and Community Centre . She also serves on a number of non-profit boards in Toronto . <p> Indian-born Thomas is a leading community development practitioner and academic with a passion for gender equity , community mobilization and transformation , and organizational change . She has been a long-time advocate for the rights of marginalized groups , both locally and internationally , championing the rights of immigrants , women , children , and people with in/visible disabilities or those in precarious employment situations . <p> In her leadership role , Thomas is committed to working with various partners to address issues of marginality to bring about transformational change in our communities by investing in people , shifting organizational cultures and diversifying partnerships . Her areas of expertise include immigration and settlement issues , community organizing , governance , policy , strategic planning , community-based research , training , micro-enterprise , and the creation of tools for transformative learning initiatives for organizations and community leaders alike . <p> Her passion for advocating for the rights of marginalized groups led her to complete and receive her Ph.D . in adult education and community development with an award-winning thesis from the Ontario Institute for Studies in Education ( OISE ) , University of Toronto . Her research examined marginality and learning in the realm of informal/cash work performed by immigrant women from Asia . With this study and other community-based research under her direction , she was able to conceive and implement inclusive learning frameworks and analytical tools to listen to voices that are not traditionally heard , nor understood . <p> Thomas was recognized as a Canadian South Asian Trailblazer and a champion for gender equity by the Council of Agencies Serving South Asians ( CASSA ) , an umbrella organization of agencies providing services to the South Asian community , to celebrate South Asian Heritage Month 2019 . She is a firm believer that everyone has something unique to offer and should be given every opportunity to participate and contribute tangibly to society . <p> Ahmad Shahroodi <p> President , CivilTech EduHub Inc.City : OttawaCountry of Origin : Iran <p> Ahmad Shahroodi , P.Eng. , came to Canada from Iran on a study permit to follow his appetite for higher education in the field of civil engineering in 2006 . He was awarded a full scholarship for his master 's studies from the University of Toronto ( UofT ) . Upon his graduation , he was offered a research position with the UofT . A few months of working there as a research fellow , Shahroodi decided to experience the Canadian civil engineering industry by gaining hands-on experience . As a result , he applied for a management position that would allow him to focus more on his specialty in the concrete industry . <p> In 2011 , Shahroodi started his position as a quality control manager in Toronto . After 12 months of practical knowledge in the engineering industry , his desire to learn and teach led him to pursue his doctorate studies at the University of Ottawa , where he was granted the admission scholarship in 2012 . During his Ph.D . studies , he received his Canadian citizenship and professional engineering ( P.Eng. ) licence . <p> While working on his licensing application to become a professional engineer , Shahroodi recognized that the procedure of engineering licensing in Canada is challenging , particularly for newcomers with international engineering degrees . He saw this complication as a severe risk to the career development of newcomers in the engineering industry of Canada . In addition to internationally educated newcomers , sadly , new graduates from Canadian universities also experience the same lack of knowledge about the professional licensing process in Canada . Consequently , these talents often can not find a proper engineering position in Canada . Shahroodi started thinking of possible ways that could make this challenge easier for applicants . After spending a year of comprehensive research and conducting several interviews with the experts , he was able to find the solutions that can help who desires to serve and protect the safety of the Canadian public as professional engineers . Shahroodi registered an educational company , called CivilTech EduHub Inc ( CivilTech ) in 2015 . The primary mission of CivilTech is to introduce newcomers to the importance of engineering licensing and educate them about the process of licensing . His company offers full-day workshops , seminars and mentorship in community centres and universities about engineering licensing in Canada . Now , through Shahroodi 's excitement to remove roadblocks for his peers , many engineering degrees holders have been able to apply for the P.Eng . licence and develop their engineering career in Canada . <p> Adela Crossley <p> Barrister and solicitorCity : TorontoCountry of Origin : Guyana <p> Adela Crossley has been changing and saving lives through passionate , compassionate and empathetic legal services serving the GTA for more than a decade . Since opening her own practice in 2007 , Crossley has been practising in the areas of immigration and refugee law , family law and child protection . She provides services in multiple languages and she works closely with many immigrant communities . <p> Crossley graduated from the University of Toronto with an honours degree in history and political science . She then attended law school at Osgoode Hall , York University and obtained her bachelor of law degree , and master 's degree in administrative law and a second master 's degree in family law from Osgoode . Crossley has extensive training in child protection law . She regularly provides presentations and workshops on immigration , domestic violence , as well as family and child protection law . She is especially adept at navigating the intersection between immigration and family law and has special expertise in Hague Convention applications . <p> Throughout the years , she has established a solid relationship with many women 's shelters , community organizations and churches and provides advice and assistance to several . She is a referral lawyer for these community organizations and shelters and is a consulting lawyer for the Mexican Consulate in Canada . She is on the board of directors for the FCJ Refugee Centre . Crossley has received extensive training in the area of domestic violence and is on the domestic violence panel at Legal Aid Ontario . Additionally , she is a member of the area committee at Legal Aid Ontario and COSTI Immigrant Services , Women of Courage Program . Crossley has extensive experience appearing before various tribunals such as the Immigration and Refugee Board and the Social Benefits Tribunal . She regularly appears before the Federal Court of Canada , the Ontario Court of Justice and the Superior Court of Justice , as well as representing detained and incarcerated individuals . She saves lives that would be lost if they returned home . She saves women and children from certain assault , trauma or even death by fighting for their right to live and be safe as refugees in Canada . Her own experiences as an immigrant and as the parent of a severely disabled child make her especially dedicated to disability issues and advocating for the disabled . Crossley continues to lead the way and is a shining example of an immigrant who is committed to giving back to those communities that need it most . <p> Adeola Olubamiji <p> Scientist and founder of STEMHub FoundationCity : TorontoCountry of Origin : Nigeria <p> Adeola Olubamiji , Ph.D. , is a scientist who specializes in metal and plastic additive manufacturing ( also known as 3D printing ) . She came to Canada from Nigeria seven years ago , and became the first black person to obtain a PhD in biomedical engineering from the 112-year-old University of Saskatchewan , Canada in 2017 . In 2018 , Olubamiji joined Cummins Inc. as its first additive manufacturing specialist . At her current role , she leads development of processes for laser powder bed fusion and binder jet technologies . Her academic contributions have yielded several scholarly scientific publications , scientific conference presentations , a TEDx talk and contributions on several high-profile scientific panels . <p> Olubamiji is the founder of STEMHub Foundation , a non-profit organization promoting engagement of minorities and females in science , technology , engineering and mathematics ( STEM ) careers . STEMHub Foundation has engagements in Ontario and Nigeria , 40 active volunteers and 32,000 followers on social media . In the last two years , STEMHub Foundation has aided 2,000 youths in Canada and more than 3,000 youth living in Africa . Their programs include free , hands-on workshops on various STEM topics to students ( Grade 2-12 ) in **26;366;TOOLONG , female-dominated and underserved communities across the Greater Toronto Area . <p> Some of their partners are Jean Augustine Centre for Young Women 's Empowerment , Frontlines Toronto , Restoration House Hamilton , Lady Ballers ' Female Basketball Team and more . In addition , we provide one-to-one mentoring program that strategically pairs mentees and mentors based on career progression needs , and long-term career goals ( approximately 150 served ) . We also provide free university application reviews and payment of admission coverage fees for people seeking admissions and scholarships opportunities for graduate degrees . Their regular stream of scholarships shared on their pages also provides access to students who need fellowship and scholarship opportunities and we have several success stories of this . Lastly , STEMHub Foundation has continued to provide skills to women and youth in Nigeria . Some of their work include hosting of a three-week tie &amp; dye engineering , sponsoring of graphics design training hosted by the Female Designer Movement and yearly sponsor a technology hackathon called NaijaHacks . <p> For her contributions to the manufacturing industry , introduction of metal additive manufacturing to Cummins Inc. and her work giving back to the community , Olubamiji has won several awards . Some of the awards include 2020 STEP ( Science Technology Engineering and Production ) Award by the Manufacturing Institute , 2019 Influential Women in Manufacturing Award by Putman Media , 2019 L'Or ? al Paris Women of Worth Canada Honoree , among others . <p> Loizza Aquino <p> Student ; activistCity : WinnipegCountry of Origin : Philippines <p> Loizza Aquino is an 18-year-old social justice activist . She has been involved with social activism since the age of nine , but , in 2015 , she started to focus on mental health advocacy in 10th grade after she lost one of her best friends to suicide . He was one of four high school students in Winnipeg that died by suicide within the timespan of one month . <p> After a countless number of hours spent on trying to find answers as to why this was happening , Aquino realized that she needed to stop searching for answers , but instead , create solutions to ensure this would never happen again . This inspired Aquino to create her own youth-led non-profit organization at the age of 15 called Peace of Mind . Her organization holds events called Youth Against Metal Health and Illness Stigma ( YAMHIS ) , which provides a safe space and platform for students across the province to share their stories and experiences in regards to mental health . <p> A handful of high schools across Manitoba have created Peace of Mind groups within their school to sustain mental health conversations throughout the school year . Since 2015 , they have reached more than 2,000 students , and have expanded from Manitoba to Ontario . These events have inspired students to get help and have even saved students ' lives . <p> Aquino has worked alongside a branch of the Government of Manitoba on several projects . She is a public speaker who has received many different accolades for her work in the topic of mental health , online safety and media literacy , youth empowerment and human rights . Her past awards include the Young Humanitarian Award of Manitoba , Global Bayaning Filipino Award , TD Scholarships for Community Leadership and the Youth Premier Healthy Living Award . <p> Aquino also recently created her own scholarship fund to empower other youth mental health activists and support across Canada and the Philippines . Aquino is a student at the University of Toronto , pursuing a double major in mental health studies and international development studies , with a minor in public policy and governance . She hopes to work for the United Nations one day to create policies for mental health across the world . 
@@51508189 <h> Palestinians declare coronavirus emergency as Church of the Nativity closed <h> Palestinians declare coronavirus emergency as Church of the Nativity closed <p> A Palestinian worker in a protective suit disinfects a bus as a preventive measure against the coronavirus in Beit Jala town in the Israeli-occupied West Bank <p> By Mussa Qawasma <p> BETHLEHEM , West Bank ( Reuters ) - Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas declared a 30-day state of emergency on Thursday and Bethlehem 's Church of the Nativity was closed following the discovery of seven cases of coronavirus in the traditional birthplace of Jesus . <p> The decree was announced by Palestinian Prime Minister Mohammed Shtayyeh , who decided to close all schools , colleges and kindergartens and to cancel foreign tourist reservations . <p> " We have decided to declare a state of emergency in all Palestinian areas to confront the danger of the coronavirus and prevent it from spreading , " Shtayyeh said on Thursday night . <p> Speaking in Ramallah , Shtayyeh said the Palestinian Authority was also considering closing all border crossings . <p> The precautions were announced after Health Minister Mai Alkaila said authorities had identified seven positive cases , all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ <p> Health officials said they suspected the seven , the first reported cases of the illness in the occupied Palestinian territories , contracted it from tourists who had stayed at the hotel recently . <p> The Latin Patriarchate of the Holy Land said the Church of the Nativity would be closed for two weeks , along with other churches and mosques in the Bethlehem area . <p> A ban on foreign guests at West Bank hotels will also last two weeks , the tourism ministry said . <p> Israel 's Defense Minister Naftali Bennett ordered the Israeli military to close off Bethlehem , in cooperation with the Palestinian Authority , barring movement of Israelis and Palestinians with effect from Thursday evening . <p> The Islamist group Hamas , which rules the Gaza Strip , said Shtayyeh 's announcement covered only the West Bank . <p> The measures were a particular blow to Bethlehem , where businesses depend largely on visitors to the church , built on the site where Christians believe Jesus was born . <p> Just three months ago the mayor and hoteliers in Bethlehem were hailing what promised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visitor numbers in 2019 numbers surpassing the 1.5 million people who came in 2018 . <p> " This affects us dramatically , " said Joey Canavati , manager of the 58-room Alexander Hotel in Bethlehem . " Our workers are essentially laid off for the next 14 days . We will be closed down completely . " <p> Canavati said groups of tourists from the United States , Poland and Cameroon had already canceled their bookings . <p> However British artist Banksy 's hotel in Bethlehem , The Walled Off Hotel , brought a touch of humor to the situation by strapping a surgical mask to the model monkey bellhop . <p> The Palestinian governor of the West Bank town of Nablus on Thursday ordered its Muslim and Christian holy sites shut as a public health precaution . <p> The Palestinian Authority exercises limited self-rule in the Israeli-occupied West Bank under interim peace accords with neighboring Israel . <p> Fifteen people have been diagnosed with the virus in Israel . <p> On Wednesday , Israel ordered people traveling to Israel from Germany , France , Spain , Austria and Switzerland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exercise with troops from the U.S. European Command . <p> Citizens from those countries would not be allowed into Israel unless they could show they had made quarantine arrangements ahead of time . Israel has already imposed the quarantine measure with regard to flights from Italy , China and Singapore . 
@@51508471 <p> " Israeli forces have razed agricultural lands in the village of Bruqueen near Salfeet in the occupied West Bank , in order to confiscate the land and pave the way for the expansion of the adjacent Israeli settlement known as Bruhin . Meanwhile a group of Israeli settlers have chopped down dozens of olive trees in the village of Sisya south of Hebron ... " <p> " Thousands of Palestinians have taken to the streets of the Gaza Strip to pay tribute to the late founder of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine , George Habash . The PFLP is one of the major Palestinian resistance movements that say armed resistance is the only way to liberate occupied Palestinian lands . <p> Protesters callled on all Palestinian factions to unite in the face of Israeli hegemony . PFLP protesters stressed theri adherence to resistance against the Israeli occupation . The PFLP 's former Secretary General Abu Ali Mustafa was assassinated by Israel in 2001 and their current leader Ahmed Saadat has been in Israeli custody since 2006 . " <p> " Lebanese resistance movement Hezbollah has killed two Israeli soldiers in a surprise attack on an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attack on Wednesday killed two Israeli soldiers and destroyed at least nine vehicles . <p> The Israeli regime responded with combined aerial and ground strikes on southern Lebanon . Eight Israeli soldiers were also injured , while a Spanish UN peacekeeper was also killed in the clashes . <p> Tensions have been on the rise in the area after an Israeli airstrike on the Syrian sector of the occupied Golan Heights * see Syrian war 2 thread killed six Hezbollah fighters and a top Iranian commander on January 18 . <p> " Spain has held the Tel Aviv regime accountable for the death of a Spanish peacekeeper serving with the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon ( UNIFIL ) during an exchange of fire between Israeli forces and fighters from Lebanon 's Hezbollah resistance movement . <p> ' It was because of this escalation of violence and it came from the Israeli side , ' Spanish Ambassador Roman Oyarzum Marchesi told reporters in New York on Wednesday . Marchesi further noted that his country demands a full investigation ito the fatality . <p> Meanwhile , US Secretary General Ban Ki-moon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all sides to ' act responsibly to prevent any escalation in an already tense regional environment . ' <p> Tensions have been on the rise in the area after an Israeli airstrike on the Syrian sector of the occupied Golan Heights killed six Hezbollah fighters and a top Iranian commander on Jan 18 . <p> For more information on the fight between Israel and Hezbollah , Press TV readers can click on LIVE UPDATE <p> " Canada condemns the assault by Hezbollah on the Israeli Defence Forces ( IDF ) that tragically killed two IDF members . Our thoughts and prayers go out to the families and friends of those lost and injured . Canada also extends its condolences to the family and friends of the Spanish UN peacekeeper killed in the exchange . <p> Hezbollah , another Iranian proxy , is a brutal terrorist organization bent on the destruction of Israel . Canada supports Israel 's right to defend itself by itself . <p> This is just another example of the threats Israel faces - from Gaza to Southern Lebanon and Syria - from all proxies funded , trained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu threatened war in Lebanon and Syria on Wednesday , saying that Israel is prepared to act ' on all fronts ' following an attack that killed two Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) soldiers near Israel 's northern border . <p> On January 18 , Israeli war plances attacked a convoy of vehicles traveling on the Syrian side of the border , killing several Hezbollah fighters and an Iranian military officer . The Iranian backed Hezbollah force , apparently targeted for a precision assassination-style strike was engaged in efforts to drive al-Nusra Front fighters out of the Golan Heights . <p> The al Nusra militants , currently participating in the US-organized proxy war against the Syrian government , enjoy close relations with powerful elements of the Israeli state , according to the Israeli paper Haaretz . In exchange for Israeli military training and weaponry , the al Qaeda linked al Nusra Front is providing Israel with intelligence and supporting Israeli efforts to establish a new proxy army in southern Syria . <p> It is the US elite and its junior partners in Israel who are engaged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the region . This agenda is rooted in the US drive for global dominance has brought the entire region to the precipice ... " <p> " The disclosure that convicted al Qaeda operative Zacarrias Moussaoui has indentified leading members of the Saudi government as financiers of the terrorist network , potentially reshapes how Americans will perceive events in the Middle East and creates a risk for Israel 's Likud government which has forged an unikely alliance with some of these same Saudis . <p> According to a story in the New York Times on Wednesday , Moussaoui said in a prison deposition that he was directed in 1998 or 1999 by A/Q leaders in Afghanistan to create a digital database of the group 's donors and that the last included Prince Turki al Faisal , their intelligence chief Prince Bandar bin Sultan , long time Saudi ambassador to the US , Prince al Waleed bin Talal , a prominent billionaire investor , and many leading clerics . <p> The Saudis appear to have continued a covert relationship with al Qaeda connected jihadis to the present day . And like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ militants in Syria . <p> That shared concern has pushed Israel and Saudi Arabia into a de facto alliance ... " <p> ( Since we sent our original letters to Air Canada , we recently found out Air Canada also has maintenance agreements with Israel Aerospace Industries IAI , which is wholly owned by the government of Israel . The IAI company website states : " Over the past 60 years IAI delivered , supplied and supported advanced systems for the Israeli Ministry of Defense .. " ) Yet another compelling reason to boycott Air Canada . <p> In the last month , we have communicated twice with Air Canada officials regarding their unethical behaviour in serving Israeli products on their flights . They have refused to answer us and left us with no choice but to launch a campaign to inform people of their policies . There are two products in question -- one is Sabra Hummus which is listed in Air Canada 's on-board menu and prominently featured on the last page of the Air Canada cafe menu . <p> The One-State solution is effectively the Jewish-MinorityMuslim Majority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Christians and Muslims , that is , a modern " secular state " like South Africa . Some original one-state proponents like King Abdullah of Jordon in 1948 wanted special protection for the Jews in Palestine , but no Israel . Abdullah took over the Palestinian rump ( half of the 50% of the UN General Assembly Partition plan ) after the 1948 war and most Zionists then argued that Jordon WAS the " Palestinian State . " Most Jewish Israelis know well how the 50% -50%UN partition plan was rejected by the " Arabs " ( most of them ) and their governments as well as the 30%-70% Peel Commission proposal before World War II . Hardcore Zionists also rejected Peel . Then like now , they wanted 100% . Christians and Muslims have many states where they are a majority . Jews , Judaism only has one . Zionism was not popular among Jewish Europeans in the XIXth century . They were German , French , Polish , Russian , first although citizenship had often depended on religion especially in the East . How many Jewish Israelis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were their ancestors ? Some active one-state proponents are Jewish Israelis or other Jews . Will they convince the Zionists ? <p> " Tens of thousands of Palestinians are still living without adequate shelter more than five months after the end of Israel 's attack on Gaza last summer . People are still living under trees or amongst the ruin of their destroyed or damaged homes . <p> The reconstruction has effectively been non-existent . So , in some ways the consequences of the war are more destructive than the war itself . Gaza is on the verge of collapsing ... " <p> In a new report from the UN , it is revealed that the Israeli Defense Forces ( IDF ) were maintaining regular contact with members of the so-called Islamic State since May of 2013 . Initial reports from the IDF stated that this was only for medical care for civilians , but that story fell apart when the UN observers identified direct contact between IDF forces and ISIS soldiers , including giving medical care to ISIS fighters . Observations even included the transfer of two crates from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have not been confirmed at this time . Further the UN report identified what the Syrians label a crossing point of forces between Israel and ISIS , a point of concern brought before the UN Security Council . This report from the UN strengthens the claims by the Syrian regime that Israel is heavily involved in operations within the nation . <p> " The deadly attack has left some UNIFIL officers convinced that Israel deliberately targeted one of their positions to ' punish ' the peacekeepers for not taking greater action against Hezbollah 's activities in the southern border districts ... " <p> Would n't be the first time ... Got a Canadian peacekeeper on the Lebanese border several years ago too . <p> " ... He says there ' is no evidence whatsoever ' of an increase in antisemitism , rather , whenever Israel starts an assault on Gaza , there is a spike in reported incidents , but he questions whether they are actually anti-Semite . <p> He says the problem is the State of Israel and their ' maniac ' head of state . " <p> The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 17 is approaching . The electoral campaign is in full swing . Strange as it may be , civil war in Ukraine has a direct impact upon the inner political processes in the Jewish state , claims the interlocutor of ? ? REGNUM news agency , Israeli journalist Ravid Gor . <p> Certain MPs from the ruling party " Likud " have received significant subsidies from Ukraine for their electoral campaign . This was revealed by the Hebrew-language newspaper " Haaretz " . <p> Tens of thousands of Israelis rallied against Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his ruling government in the nation 's capital of Tel Aviv on Saturday night as they decried the leader 's domestic policies and called for a peace agreement with the Palestinians who live in the occupied territories of the West Bank and Gaza Strip .... <p> Gaza is in a mess because Israel wants it that way . And not enough of the rest of the world wants otherwise . Including Canada . This ugly matter , will of course be carefully excluded from the upcoming election campaign by partisans of all parties during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Israel on this . <p> Polls indicate growing lead for Zionist Union led by Isaac Herzog over Binyamin Netanyahu 's party with less than a week before vote <p> Isaac Herzog attends an election campaign event as polls suggest his Zionist Union party leads by three or four parliamentary seats . <p> Israel 's opposition leader , Isaac Herzog , appears to be gaining momentum in the runup to next week 's general election , triggering a rising sense of panic in Likud , the party of the prime minister , Binyamin Netanyahu . <p> Two new polls suggest a lead of three to four parliamentary seats for the Zionist Union , with internal polling from both parties indicating a wider gap . <p> A text message sent to Likud activists , imploring them them to get out friends and relatives to vote on Tuesday , reads : " We are in danger of really losing ! " <p> It goes on : " We must save the day and make sure that every single one of our **28;1232;TOOLONG makes it to the polls on election day and votes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Labour leader who has formed an electoral alliance with former justice minister Tzipi Livni under the Zionist Union banner , has been running neck and neck with Netanyahu , who is campaigning to serve a fourth term as prime minister . <p> Under Israel 's system of proportional representation which invariably produces coalition governments , Netanyahu still has an advantage . But in the last days of the campaign , there is a new sense of optimism among Zionist Union 's supporters and MPs . <p> At a campaign meeting in Be'er Sheva , in the Negev desert , on Tuesday , Herzog told a gathering of the faithful , the curious and a handful of supporters of other parties that he represented hope for those who feel excluded within Israel 's dysfunctional economy and for those who seek the possibility of peace . He and Livni promised to end Israel 's increasing isolation in the international community . <p> The Pentagon finally admits that Israel has nuclear weapons . Not that that will mean Israeli whistleblowers who expose this will be treated any less brutally . <p> @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ otherwise , the Pentagon has reluctantly confirmed that Israel does indeed possess nuclear bombs ... <p> Yet the confirmation of this poorly kept secret opens a troublesome can of worms for both the US government and our closest ally in the Middle East . Official acknowledgement poses questions and contradictions that cry out for closer inspection . For many years , the United States collaborated with Israel 's development of critical technology needed for advanced armaments . Yet Washington pushed other nations to sign the Non-Proliferation Treaty , which requires international inspections to discourage the spread of nuclear arms . Israel has never signed the NPT and therefore does not have to submit to inspections . <p> A good read . As the author notes , " The Middle East wars became the live-fire testing ground where new systems were perfected , " referring to the extremely close and productive relationship between the Israeli and US death making machinery . Other commentators have spelled this out ; the Israelis are in some ways " global leaders " of certain " defense " and weapons systems . Their experience in brutalizing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expertise " in urban warfare and skillful atrocities against civilians . They really are quite good at this . Killing civilians . Repressing a domestic population . A boot in the face of humanity ... forever . And , if the coming police states come to pass in Canada and the US .. our governments will benefit from the rich experience of the Israelis . Is n't that sweet ? It 's so GOOD to know that Canada is such a " close friend " to that brutal regime ... <p> " Canadian Friends Of Sabeel , an organization which brings together Christian churches in support of Palestinian human rights is organizing a conference on ' Christian Zionism ' in Vancouver on April 23-25th <p> Listen and watch a short video interview with Father Assaly discussing the conference . Among other things he reveals that THREATS HAVE BEEN MADE BY THE JEWISH DEFENCE LEAGUE . " <p> Why is this KKK style zio hate group allowed to continue ? Why is it expanding ? Who funds it ? What is being done to curtail its activities ? <p> Netanyahu 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conversation in Fink 's Bar in Jerusalem al-Quds in 1990 : <p> " If we get caught they will just replace us with persons of the same cloth . So it does n't matter what you do , America is a Golden Calf and we will suck it dry , chop it up , and sell it off piece by piece until there is nothing left but the world 's biggest welfare state that we will create and control . Why ? Because it 's God 's will and America is big enough to take the hit so we can do it again , again and again . This is what we do to countries that we hate . We destroy them very slowly and make them suffer for refusing to be our slaves . " <p> Netanyahu 's real feelings about America were revealed in a secretly tape-recorded conversation in Fink 's Bar in Jerusalem al-Quds in 1990 : <p> " If we get caught they will just replace us with persons of the same cloth . So it does n't matter what you do , America is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it up , and sell it off piece by piece until there is nothing left but the world 's biggest welfare state that we will create and control . Why ? Because it 's God 's will and America is big enough to take the hit so we can do it again , again and again . This is what we do to countries that we hate . We destroy them very slowly and make them suffer for refusing to be our slaves . " <p> " We will proceed by describing the seriousness of the crime by noting the centrality of the US-Iran negotiations for US global politics and the enormous damage , which has resulted from Israel 's securing secret documents , reports and proceedings of the talks and having a highly placed agent among the US diplomats . " <p> a cautionary note to Canucklheads - Ottawa is even more compromised now than Washington . Nobody wants to talk about it . <p> " Israel and Rwanda are working to finalize a multimillion dollar deal that would relocate hundreds of African asylum seekers living in Israel to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comes after a new policy was unveiled last week by the Israeli Population and Immigration Authority that would enable the state to deport Eritrean and Sudanese refugees to third party countries in Africa against their will ... " <p> Because terrorists , whether of the state kind or the freelance kind , are brothers in their hearts . <p> Quote : <p> Speaking to Israeli occupation troops last week , a Wall Street Journal reporter on the ground in Mount Bental ( part of the occupied Golan Heights ) found that Israeli troops receive wounded al-Qaeda fighters , treat them in Israeli hospitals and send them back to continue fighting against the government in Syria . <p> " The German Federal Security Council has allowed the government to deliver another submarine to the Tel Aviv regime . The deliveries have greatly infuriated many people in the European country as one third of all the $530 million , submarine contract between Berlin and Tel Aviv has to be covered by German taxpayers . <p> Merkel 's administration has also come under fire for providing Israel with Dolphin-class submarines because they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is widely believed to be the sole possessor of a nuclear arsenal in the Middle East , and has so far , blatantly violated the international rules regarding nuclear non-proliferation . " 
@@51533558 <h> Kay : Jews are finally pushing back <p> Izzy Ezagui lost his arm to a mortar shell , yet returned to duty as a reservist . <p> Recently I had the pleasure of meeting Izzy Ezagui , the famous IDF soldier who lost his left arm to a mortar shell in Gaza , yet returned to duty as a reservist . Author of the 2018 book , Disarmed : Unconventional Lessons from the World 's Only One-Armed Special Forces Sharpshooter , Izzy was the keynote speaker at a Hasbara Fellowships event in Toronto , where he addressed a full auditorium of attendees , including many young Hasbara " fellows . " <p> I was Ezagui 's warm-up act . ( I am very glad I did not have to speak after he did , as his wit and charm , applied to a riveting account of his trauma and recovery , made him the proverbial " tough act to follow . " ) <p> Here was a young American Jew who was under no obligation to put his body at the service of the Jewish state . Yet from childhood , Izzy had felt himself drawn to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ translated into a wish to participate fully in Israel 's defence . He learned fluent Hebrew in mere months of training , because failure to understand could mean disaster to himself or others . Even after the loss of his dominant arm , and struggling to find a new direction in life , Ezagui and a friend , who were enjoying a beach respite , were able to rescue a girl being swept out to sea . <p> This unexpected accomplishment encouraged him to press for re-enlistment in his unit . Against all arguments and predictions , he found that , through adaptations and novel strategies , he could fulfil his ambitions and once again become an active contributor to Israel 's strength rather than accept an invalid status . Ezagui refused to allow victimhood to define him , he met adversity with resilience and he chose optimism and action over bitterness and retreat from engagement with further risk . <p> To me this narrative is emblematic of Jewish history . Ezagui spoke of the tormenting phantom pain he continued to feel in the place where his arm had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we see evidence of anti-Semitism in a news report of anti-Jewish violence or a chilling remark by an influential leader . It triggers memory of the Holocaust , our permanent dismemberment . Almost daily , news of anti-Semitic aggression forces us to choose our response : will we be freighted with fear and bitterness , or with resilience and optimism ? <p> Inspired by his story , I spoke about why I feel , in spite of rampant anti-Semitism , more Jewishly optimistic today than I did 10 years ago . <p> Israel is strong and prosperous . Ten years ago , it seemed like Israel Apartheid Week and the boycott , divestment and sanctions ( BDS ) movement would triumph . Today their movement is stalled . Yes , there is anti-Israel commotion on campuses , but they have little support in the public forum . Grassroots pro-Israel groups , that were finding their feet in the early 2000s , are strong on campuses and pushing back hard : Hasbara Fellowships , the AMCHA Initiative , Stand With Us , the Canadian Institute for Jewish Research , the Zioness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early 2000s , now we are on offence . <p> Monitoring groups are doing fantastic work . HonestReporting , NGO Monitor , The Middle East Media Research Institute , The Committee for Accuracy in Middle East Reporting , Palestinian Media Watch and of course UN Watch ; their message is powerful and it is heard . The International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance definition of anti-Semitism is accepted worldwide by states and institutions , including the United Kingdom , Canada and Germany , as well as the European parliament . <p> While there are fewer liberal North American Jews who are Jewishly affiliated and fewer still who are actively Zionist , those who are have been producing the greatest English-language explosion of intellectual and cultural content since ever . Once there was only Commentary , now there is Commentary plus Mosaic Magazine , Tablet Magazine and the Jewish Review of Books : These publications are chock-a-block with rich , proudly Jewish historical and polemical content . Podcasts , conferences , online teaching seminars : It seems strange amidst so much surrounding hatred , but we 're experiencing an intellectual golden age . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used to be defendants , we are now the plaintiffs . 
@@51533559 <h> Arabic language paper runs blood libel article <p> B'nai Brith Canada is shining the light on a Toronto-area Arab language newspaper that published two anti-Semitic articles , in its Feb. 28 edition , that repeated blood libels , praised terrorists and compared Israelis to Nazis . <p> B'nai Brith said it has contacted the Toronto Police Service " in order to file a complaint " in connection to an article in al-Meshwar by a " Hamas figure " titled , The Abuse of the Martyrs and the Manipulation of their Bodies Are Jewish Commandments and Israeli Directives . <p> According to B'nai Brith , the author of the article , Mustafa Yusuf al-Lidawi , accused Israel of burying prisoners alive and stealing their organs , " a practice he blames on Israel 's ' ancient malice , and Talmudic and Torah commandments . ' " <p> Al-Lidawi also praised the " martyrdom " of terrorist Muhammad al-Na'im , a member of Palestinian Islamic Jihad , who was killed in February planting a bomb on the Israel-Gaza border . <p> An article in the same page of the same paper by Mohamed Kamel , a Canadian-based Egyptian political activist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than that suffered by the Jews at the hands of the Nazis . <p> B'nai Brith states that Kamel 's original article appeared on his personal blog before being picked up by al-Meshwar . The article , titled The Holocaust of the 21st Century , " suggests that the memory of the Holocaust is ' controlling the minds of humanity ' as part of a ' planned and deliberate endeavor aimed at manipulating the gullible to accept the Zionist project . ' He goes on to say that ' the horrors of the 20th century Holocaust become a justification for a crime uglier than its predecessor , and the victim was thus transformed into a murderer and perpetrator of the 21st century Holocaust ' . " <p> B'nai Brith described Kamel as co-founder of the Egyptian Canadian Coalition for Democracy ( ECCD ) . <p> After receiving an independent translation of the articles , B'nai Brith made its concerns public . <p> Al-Meshwar is published by Nazih Khatatba . Al-Meshwar did not respond to a request for comment . On two previous occasions dating back to 2014 , Khatatba turned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for B'nai Brith , Artman said , " We have not spoken to Mr. Khatatba , although we did reach out for comment to Mr. Kamel and his organization , the ECCD , who declined to provide a response . " <p> Responding to the article comparing Israelis to Nazis , Michael Mostyn , chief executive officer of B'nai Brith , said , " It is shocking and bewildering that a leader of a group supposedly dedicated to democracy and charter values would so callously abuse the memory of the Holocaust to spread dangerous mistruths about the world 's only Jewish state . <p> " World Jewry will never tolerate those who attack us through nefarious falsehoods about the State of Israel . It is irrefutably anti-Semitic and harmful to imply that the Jewish state -- the only genuine democracy in the Middle East -- and its citizenry have become modern-day Nazis . " <p> In a comment on the article by al-Lidawi , the Hamas figure , Mostyn said , " It is unacceptable that Canadian publications , in any language , continue to demonize Jews and glorify terrorism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inter-communal relations and increase the risk to our safety . " <p> The CJN has reported on al-Meshwar and Khatatba dating back to 2014 . At the time , al-Mashwar ran an article praising of the synagogue massacre in the Har Nof neighbourhood of Jerusalem , in which four rabbis and a police officer were murdered . <p> A year later , it ran an article that labeled Judaism a terrorist religion and said killing is ingrained in the Jewish faith . <p> In 2018 al-Meshwar published an article that praised three women whose sons carried out or co-ordinated suicide bombings against Israelis , on behalf of Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad. 
@@51556687 <p> A face mask lies on the dashboard as The Globe and Mail 's Asia correspondent Nathan Vanderklippe reports from Beijing . <p> Nathan VanderKlippe/The Globe and Mail <h> Beijing <p> A man in head-to-toe protective gear emerged like a space creature from the bus that pulled up to my apartment complex in Beijing this week . Moments later , my wife and two sons followed , lugging heavy bags . They have n't been home since Jan. 22 , when we left on a family vacation in Laos . Rather than return to a shuttered city as the novel coronavirus spread across China , they then flew to Canada . <p> Now , after nearly seven weeks of struggling through e-classes and imposing on family hospitality , they 're back . <p> It was n't much of a reunion . My boys did n't dent my ribs with a high-speed run-and-hug . My wife did n't duck a kiss the way she always does after a long time apart . Instead , I sat inside a parked car and watched from a distance as they arrived and walked into a 14-day quarantine , a requirement for each person @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wife and children to his apartment , Mr. VanderKlippe had to leave to avoid breaking their two-week self-isolation . <p> Nathan VanderKlippe/The Globe and Mail <p> Most people are sent to hotels designated as isolation facilities . We are lucky : Local authorities have allowed the elderly and those with young children to quarantine at home . <p> But such dispensation is available only to those with empty houses . That means I had to move out , with a pledge not to return for two weeks . My family , however , avoided two weeks locked in a cramped hotel room after what was already a uniquely stressful journey . They transited through Taiwan , which closed its borders to foreigners while they were airborne . The Taipei airport was filled with the wheelchair-bound elderly , desperate to return home from the ravages of a spreading disease . <p> As for me , I hope to stay at a friend 's place . But nothing is certain . Apartment complexes in Beijing currently bar visitors . Just in case , I 've stored clothes at the office , where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the days until I can get a proper hug . I might even land a proper kiss . <h> San Jose , Calif . <p> The view from the window of Globe and Mail correspondent Tamsin McMahon in California . <p> Tamsin McMahon/The Globe and Mail <p> The San Francisco Bay Area does n't quite have the legendary gridlock of Los Angeles . But it can still take three hours to drive the 80 kilometres from San Francisco to San Jose . So I was shocked last week when the GPS said the trip would take 45 minutes at rush hour . <p> Travelling the empty highways was the first time I realized that Silicon Valley is an actual valley -- a wide open space surrounded by rolling green hills . <p> It felt like the quintessential California road trip with the streets devoid of the usual throngs of Teslas , buses shuttling workers to tech campuses and goofy little self-driving test cars . <p> Story continues below advertisement <p> California has an economy larger than most countries . So the order this week to shelter in place -- starting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ -- has been head-spinning . On my morning walk the day the lockdown began , I saw my neighbour conducting a home-schooled gym class . " It says you have to jump 30 times , " she told her son while reading off an iPad . Then I came across my landlord , weeping in her Porsche over whether her tenants would be able to afford their rents . <p> Americans love their freedom though , so a shocking variety of businesses remained open this week . The line at the Trader Joe 's supermarket snaked around the building in the rain . Liquor stores , garden nurseries and cannabis dispensaries were all open . You could still buy a Captain America-themed smartphone at Target , though not toilet paper . Even in liberal San Jose , crowds rushed the gun stores , which argued the Second Amendment qualifies them as " essential services . " <p> But in a place where wealth has come so easily for so long there is a growing sense of fear . " We were already hunkering down , not spending a lot of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off as an investment adviser , told me . " Now what are we going to do ? Move away ? " ? <h> London <p> Every now and again , when things are particularly bad in the Gaza Strip , due to war or other hardships , I send my old friend Hasan a message to ask how he and his family and friends are coping . In a jarring reversal of roles , this week it was Hasan 's turn to check in on me : " I hope that you and your family are okay , " he wrote to me via Facebook Messenger . <p> The reason , of course , was the novel coronavirus , which has turned our entire world upside down . In Britain , where I live and which until this week was trying to keep things as normal as possible , the schools were to be finally shut at the end of the day on Friday . <p> Businesses are now in full-blown panic . The woman who works at the dry cleaner in my neighbourhood , just south of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in to pick up some items I 'd left there a few days earlier . " Thank you ! Some money ! " she said , exhaling sharply . She figured she 'd be forced to close her shop by Monday . <p> The man who runs the newspaper shop across the street from the dry cleaner was just as grateful to see me buying an armload of newspapers and magazines . Many of his regular customers , he said , had cancelled their home deliveries -- leaving London for family homes in the countryside . <p> There were still people on London 's streets this week , but most of them were hurrying to shop -- or have a last drink in the pub -- before the capital is shut down like so many other European cities already have been . <p> All live entertainment has been cancelled for the foreseeable future , but there was Glastonbury Festival-like crowding at the discount grocery store near my home . Nobody , as Prime Minister Boris Johnson said in a midweek press conference , knows how long this will last . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 14 years of rule by the Islamist Hamas movement and a blockade imposed by the Israeli military . Many of Gaza 's two million residents have n't left the two-kilometre-wide strip of land in all that time . Few outsiders enter . But for once , that isolation has its benefits . The Gaza Strip , for now , is one of the few places in the world with zero recorded cases of the coronavirus . Hasan and his family are fine . It 's the rest of us that he 's worried about . <p> From Elizabeth Renzetti 's Berlin home office , she has a view of the Volkspark am Weinberg public park . <p> Elizabeth Renzetti/The Globe and Mail <h> Berlin <p> When Berghain closed , people knew things were getting serious . On March 11 , Berlin 's most famous club , known for its superstar DJs , sex rooms and no-phone policy , announced it was going dark -- well , darker -- until at least April 20 . It made sense , considering that a club called Trompete was one of the early hotbeds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the city of freedom , " and the evidence used to be on every corner , in every street . Day drinkers , some in suits , typically lounge outside our local Spati ( think of a 7-Eleven , with more beer and cigarettes ) . The parks are normally full of people staring at the sky , the patios full of friends defying the weather . That 's all gone . <p> We used to be encouraged to pay with cash . That too is disappearing . " Nur Bar " -- cash only -- was a familiar sign in bars and clubs , a charming sign of Berlin 's resistance to the tyranny of progress . Now a trendy caf ? in the Pankow borough only accepts cards , which a barista disinfects , standing back to spray from a safe distance . It 's hardly alone . Our grocery store has hastily taped signs to every till , asking customers to kartenzahlung , bitte . Please pay by card . <p> I walked down to Museum Island , the cluster of celebrated galleries in the middle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usual day , it was empty . There are bullet holes in the walls of the Neues Museum , a reminder that the city lay ruined by war in the space of living memory . Nearby there are metal panels in the sidewalk where the Berlin Wall once stood . History lives in every brick here ; now we 're living through history . <p> Berlin 's tourism website offers words of hope : " Our city has survived many crises . Also this time it will go on ! " And that 's true , of course . But what will the city of freedom look like once it 's been freed again ? <h> Johannesburg <p> The high walls and electric fences around my Johannesburg home are a standard feature of South Africa 's middle-class suburbs , designed to shield us from violent home invasions in a country with one of the world 's highest murder rates . But those walls are of little use against a silent and invisible virus . Inside the house , we are trying to prevent the coronavirus from arriving . We are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a thermometer that I first acquired when I visited the Ebola zone in West Africa in 2014 . But nobody can seal themselves off from the outside world . <p> The pandemic in South Africa is following the same trajectory as every other region of the world , although it is still a couple of weeks behind Europe or North America . The total number of confirmed cases has been doubling every two or three days since the first case was reported on March 5 . <p> Traffic in the streets has been somewhat reduced , but Johannesburg is far from being on lockdown . Shops and malls are still open . The city 's Mayor said this week that he " strongly encouraged " the immediate shutdown of restaurants , bars and cinemas -- but they remained open . The national government stepped in , ordering taverns to close their doors at 6 p.m. daily and banning any gathering of more than 100 people ( or 50 people in taverns ) , but otherwise there are still few regulations on public spaces . <p> Similar to most other countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its supermarkets as customers began hoarding goods . Most grocery shelves , however , have quickly been stocked full again . Some shops are imposing limits on purchases of specific items . <p> To keep healthy , I 'd like to do a socially distanced solo walk in my neighborhood park . But the city has just announced a new measure : All city parks are being closed . <p> The spread of the novel coronavirus that causes COVID-19 continues , with more cases diagnosed in Canada . The Globe offers the dos and don'ts to help slow or stop the spread of the virus in your community . <p> In the interests of public health and safety , our coronavirus news articles are free for anyone to access . However , The Globe depends on subscription revenue to support our journalism . If you are able , please subscribe to globeandmail.com . If you are already a subscriber , thank you for your support . <p> Your subscription helps The Globe and Mail provide readers with critical news at a critical time . Thank you for your continued support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ articles with your friends and family . In the interest of public health and safety , all our coronavirus news articles are free for anyone to access . <p> Due to technical reasons , we have temporarily removed commenting from our articles . We hope to have this fixed soon . Thank you for your patience . If you are looking to give feedback on our new site , please send it along to **25;1826;TOOLONG . If you want to write a letter to the editor , please forward to letters@globeandmail.com . <p> Welcome to The Globe and Mail 's comment community . This is a space where subscribers can engage with each other and Globe staff . Non-subscribers can read and sort comments but will not be able to engage with them in any way . Click here to subscribe . <p> Welcome to The Globe and Mail 's comment community . This is a space where subscribers can engage with each other and Globe staff . Non-subscribers can read and sort comments but will not be able to engage with them in any way . Click here to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 
@@51557487 <h> The Boycott , Divestment and Sanctions Campaign against Israel is ... working ! <p> The Boycott , Divestment and Sanctions Campaign against Israel is ... working ! <p> " The growing protest against the atrocities committed by the Israeli military in the Gaza Strip has begun to change something in the Israeli political discourse , and the first indication of this can already be seen in the Israeli economic media . Although the Israeli economic media does n't concern itself with the moral dimension of the attacks on Gaza , the economic dimension of recent events has created a rising level of concern . " <p> The Marker , an Israeli magazine for economic news , outlines a number of successes by the BDS campaign . <p> AIPAC 's call to arms is a grudging recognition of these initial successes of the movement and , above all , of its potential . It is evident that supporters of the Jewish-only Israeli state - be they official lobbyists , powerful government figures , or others - intend to redouble their efforts to smear the BDS movement as anti-Semitic and to suppress public debate of Israel 's crimes . Supporters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others to defend the right to free speech on these issues and by reaching out to win new support for the boycott-Israel campaign . <p> I am not sure in the days of parts being built in so many different places if we will ever know 100% that no parts used or technology come from either Israel or an Israeli scientist . <p> As far as touchstone goes . I thought that their was an Israeli business person who was a minority owner of touchstone -- i thought it was the same person who used to own carnival cruise or maybe still does . and since carnival is the largest cruise line in the world ( owning something like 10 other lines ) <p> Let 's be clear : my protest is n't against the films or filmmakers you 've chosen . I 've seen brilliant works of Israeli and Palestinian cinema at past TIFFs , and will again in coming years . My protest is against the Spotlight itself , and the smug business-as-usual aura it promotes of a " vibrant metropolis and dynamic young city ... commemorating its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the 42nd anniversary of the occupation . Is n't such an uncritical celebration of Tel Aviv right now akin to celebrating Montgomery buses in 1963 , California grapes in 1969 , Chilean wines in 1973 , Nestles infant formula in 1984 , or South African fruit in 1991 ? <p> " Uri Avnery opposes the brutality inflicted on Palestinians . He campaigns for peace with Palestinians . But he also has a Zionist past . He is European born and fought for the terrorist Irgun in perpetration of a holocaust ( Nakba ) against Palestinans . He later renounced Irgun 's tactics . He is antiwar , but he is not anti-the fruits of war . He approves of a two state solution . In other words , Israeli Jews will keep the fruits of their dispossessing others - this while continuing to press for the return of what they were dispossessed . " <p> I 've come to a very difficult decision --I 'm withdrawing my film Covered from TIFF , in protest against your inaugural City-to-City Spotlight on Tel Aviv . <p> In the Canadian Jewish News @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the culmination of his year-long Brand Israel campaign , which includes bus/radio/TV ads , the ROM 's notorious Dead Sea Scrolls exhibit , and " a major Israeli presence at next year ? s Toronto International Film Festival , with numerous Israeli , Hollywood and Canadian entertainment luminaries on hand . " Gissen said Toronto was chosen as a test-city for Brand Israel by Israel 's Foreign Ministry , and thanked Astral , MIJO and Canwest for donating the million-dollar budget . ( Astral is of course a long-time TIFF sponsor , and Canwest owners ' Asper Foundation donated $500,000 to TIFF ) . " We 've got a real product to sell to Canadians ... The lessons learned from Toronto will inform the worldwide launch of Brand Israel in the coming years , Gissin said . " <p> This past year has also seen : the devastating Gaza massacre of eight months ago , resulting in over 1000 civilian deaths ; the election of a Prime Minister accused of war crimes ; the aggressive extension of illegal Israeli settlements on Palestinian lands ; the accelerated destruction of Palestinian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ security wall , and the further enshrining of the check-point system . Such state policies have led diverse figures such as John Berger , Jimmy Carter , and Bishop Desmond Tutu to characterize this ' brand ' as apartheid . Your TIFF program book may describe Tel Aviv as a " vibrant young city ... of beaches , cafes and cultural ferment ... that celebrates its diversity , " but it 's also been called " a kind of alter-Gaza , the smiling face of Israeli apartheid " ( Naomi Klein ) and " the only city in the west without Arab residents " ( Tel Aviv filmmaker Udi Aloni ) . <p> To my mind , this is n't the right year to celebrate Brand Israel , or to demonstrate an ostrich-like indifference to the realities ( cinematic and otherwise ) of the region , or to pointedly ignore the international economic boycott campaign against Israel . <p> " The Ministry of Finance has excluded the Israeli company Elbit Systems Ltd. from the Government Pension Fund GLobal on the basis of the Council of Ethics recommendation : " we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to violations of International Humanitarian law , " says Finance Minister .. " <p> As members of the Canadian and international film , culture and media arts communities , we are deeply disturbed by the Toronto International Film Festival 's decision to host a celebratory spotlight on Tel Aviv . We protest that TIFF , whether intentionally or not , has become complicit in the Israeli propaganda machine . <p> In 2008 , the Israeli government and Canadian partners Sidney Greenberg of Astral Media , David Asper of Canwest Global Communications and Joel Reitman of MIJO Corporation launched " Brand Israel , " a million dollar media and advertising campaign aimed at changing Canadian perceptions of Israel . Brand Israel would take the focus off Israel 's treatment of Palestinians and its aggressive wars , and refocus it on achievements in medicine , science and culture . An article in Canadian Jewish News quotes Israeli consul general Amir Gissin as saying that Toronto would be the test city for a promotion that could then be deployed around the world . According to Gissin , the culmination of the campaign would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Film Festival . ( Andy Levy-Alzenkopf , " Brand Israel set to launch in GTA , " Canadian Jewish News , August 28 , 2008 . ) <p> In 2009 , TIFF announced that it would inaugurate its new City to City program with a focus on Tel Aviv . According to program notes by Festival co-director and City to City programmer Cameron Bailey , " The ten films in this year 's City to City programme will showcase the complex currents running through today 's Tel Aviv . Celebrating its 100th birthday in 2009 , Tel Aviv is a young , dynamic city that , like Toronto , celebrates its diversity . " <p> The emphasis on ' diversity ' in City to City is empty given the absence of Palestinian filmmakers in the program . Furthermore , what this description does not say is that Tel Aviv is built on destroyed Palestinian villages , and that the city of Jaffa , Palestine 's main cultural hub until 1948 , was annexed to Tel Aviv after the mass exiling of the Palestinian population . This program ignores the suffering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aviv/Jaffa area who currently live in refugee camps in the Occupied Territories or who have been dispersed to other countries , including Canada . Looking at modern , sophisticated Tel Aviv without also considering the city 's past and the realities of Israeli occupation of the West Bank and the Gaza strip , would be like rhapsodizing about the beauty and elegant lifestyles in white-only Cape Town or Johannesburg during apartheid without acknowledging the corresponding black townships of Khayelitsha and Soweto . <p> We do not protest the individual Israeli filmmakers included in City to City , nor do we in any way suggest that Israeli films should be unwelcome at TIFF . However , especially in the wake of this year 's brutal assault on Gaza , we object to the use of such an important international festival in staging a propaganda campaign on behalf of what South African Archbishop Desmond Tutu , former U.S. President Jimmy Carter , and UN General Assembly President Miguel d'Escoto Brockmann have all characterized as an apartheid regime . <p> ... to the Norwegian minister of finance , Kristin Halvorsen , for personally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investments in the Israeli hi-tech company Elbit , because of its role in the construction of the illegal apartheid Wall : <p> Quote : <p> " We do not wish to fund companies that so directly contribute to violations of international humanitarian law . " <p> Latter quote is from NDPP 's link upthread . <p> Pappe concludes : <p> Quote : <p> This is a clear message for all the good people in the West looking for ways of helping the Palestinians in their moment of nadir . They want to march and sail peacefully to Gaza , they wish to facilitate more meetings between Israelis and Palestinians and are adamant despite all the hurdles to volunteer in the occupied territories . These are all noble actions but changing the public opinion in the West , is what people in the West can do best . And if one government has already shifted significantly the name and the rules of the game -- be it in a very minor decision that may still be revised under the tidal Zionist reaction , others will surely follow . For the time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a brave politician that will enter the pages of history as someone who paved the way to a better future for everyone in Israel and Palestine . <p> When we decided to pull our film Looking for Eric from the Melbourne International Film festival following our discovery that the festival was part-sponsored by the Israeli state , we wrote to the director , Richard Moore , detailing our reasons .... <p> This decision was taken by three filmmakers , ( director , producer , writer ) not in some private abstract bubble , but after a long discussion and in response to a call for a cultural boycott from a wide spectrum of Palestinian civil society , including writers , filmmakers , cultural workers , human rights groups , journalists , trade unions , women 's groups and student organizations . As Moore should know by now the Palestinian Campaign for the Academic and Cultural Boycott of Israel ( PACBI ) was launched in Ramallah in April 2004 , and its aims , reasons and constituent parts are widely available on the net . PACBI is part of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( BDS ) against the Israeli state .... <p> At a recent BDS event in the West Bank town of Ramallah , author Naomi Klein made a very good point when she argued that there is no exact equivalency between Israel and South Africa . She said , " The question is not ' Is Israel the same as South Africa ? ' It is , ' do Israel 's actions meet the international definition of what apartheid is ? ' And if you look at those conditions which includes the transfer of people , multiple tiers of law , official state segregation , then you see that , yes , it does meet that definition -- which is different than saying it is South Africa . No two states are the same . It 's not the question , it 's a distraction . " Not long after the Gaza invasion we spoke to the head of a human rights organization there who told us that the Israelis were refusing enough chemicals to adequately treat the civilian water supply ; a clear example of vindictive collective punishment delivered to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If I express any criticism of the Israeli educational system , would I be considered anti-Semitic . Would I need to criticize the educational systems of other countries so that I would not be deemed anti-Semitic ? <p> " The increasingly harsh political climate in Israel under Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's right wing government has prompted the leadership of the country 's 1.5 million Arab citizens to call the first general strike in several years .. " <p> Toronto Declaration UnstoppableDespite a week of attacks , artists from around the world rush to sign thedeclarationTORONTO , ONTARIO-- ( Marketwire - Sept. 10 , 2009 ) - The organizers of theToronto Declaration - No Celebration of Occupation are pleased to announcethat more than 1000 people from around the world-including manyIsraelis-have signed on in protest of TIFF 's City-to-City Spotlight on TelAviv . New signatories include music and cinematic legends Harry Belafonteand Julie Christie . Actor Viggo Mortensen , who will be attending this year'sfestival , just added his name . Leading intellectual figures Noam Chomsky , Judith Butler and Anne McClintock have also recently endorsed thedeclaration , along with prominent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Kerri Sakamoto . Celebrated local filmmakers Velcro Ripper , Min Sook Lee and Lynne Fernie have also signed the letter . <p> International support for the declaration continues to grow despitedenunciations , unfounded personal attacks on earlier signatories Jane Fondaand Danny Glover , and despite an aggressive campaign of misinformationregarding the letter 's content . <p> The organizers want to make it clear that the letter does not call for aboycott of TIFF . Several of the signatories have much anticipated films inthis year 's festival and many others plan to attend . Nor is it a protestagainst Israeli filmmakers , many of whom signed the letter . It is astatement of principled opposition to TIFF 's highly political decision tohonor the city of Tel-Aviv with a celebratory " spotlight " this year . <p> Such a celebration , especially in light of the recent Israeli attacks onGaza , not only ignores Palestinian suffering , but also helps to whitewashIsrael 's continued violations of international law . According to NaomiKlein , one declaration 's co-authors , " Publicly opposing TIFF 's decision isnot an act of censorship , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of speech and opinion . " <p> In an effort to promote ongoing critical debate about Tel Aviv , Israel andPalestine , organizers will be holding a public forum featuring keysignatories on Monday , September 14 , 2009 . There will be an opportunity forpress to talk to spokespeople prior to the event , beginning at 5pm . Locationand further details to follow . <p> So if they support sanctions and boycott of Israel , they must really be wild about boycotting the larger source of the problem , the USA ? Or is it the general plan to continue boycotting whichever frontline state the US decides to prop up ? How many countries and decades later will it be before it all ends ? <p> This weekend at the eighth annual US Campaign to End the Israeli Occupation national organizers ' conference held in Chicago , delegates from the approximately 300 member groups that make up the US Campaign voted in favor of an academic and cultural boycott of Israel . The vote came on the heels of a presentation by Omar Barghouti and myself on behalf of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the US Campaign for an Academic and Cultural Boycott of Israel . <p> The proposal that " the US Campaign to End the Israeli Occupation should endorse the principle of cultural and academic boycotts " passed by a landslide with one abstention and not a single objection . The quasi-unanimous vote , and the deep collective breath of relief that followed , will go down in history as the moment US-based Palestine solidarity activists overcame tactical differences that had long hindered us , to finally come together to confront Israeli apartheid . <p> The Brazilian Parliamentary Commission on Foreign Relations and National Defense has recommended that the parliament should not ratify the Free Trade Agreement ( FTA ) between Mercosur and the State of Israel until " Israel accepts the creation of the Palestinian state on the 1967 borders " . <p> This decision is an explicit act of pressure on the Israeli government to comply with international law , and a rejection of years of incessant Israeli lobbying , pressuring for a vote to ratify the agreement .... <p> This decision is an enormous blow for Israel 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ block for the enactment of the agreement , which since its signing in 2007 has been stalled due to a lack of ratification by Mercosur member countries . The Mercosur is one of the world 's most quickly expanding markets and the fifth largest economy in the world . Israeli exports to the Mercosur amounted nearly 600 million dollars in 2006 . <p> London , September 17 , 2009 ( Pal Telegraph ) - In a landmark decision , Britain 's trade unions have voted overwhelmingly to commit to build a mass boycott movement , disinvestment and sanctions on Israel for a negotiated settlement based on justice for Palestinians . The motion was passed at the 2009 TUC Annual Congress in Liverpool today ( 17 September ) , by unions representing 6.5 million workers across the UK . <p> Hugh Lanning , chair of the Palestine Solidarity Campaign , said : ' This motion is the culmination of a wave of motions passed at union conferences this year , following outrage at Israel 's brutal war on Gaza , and reflects the massive growth in support for Palestinian rights . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mass campaign to boycott Israeli goods , especially agricultural products that have been produced in illegal Israeli settlements in the Palestinian West Bank . ' <p> Unfortunately , the linked article in the last post is a bit one-sided , and the headline is overly enthusiastic ( and misleading ) . Wish it were n't so , but there you go . In fact , the boycott , which is still historic and an enormous step forward , is only related to goods produced in the illegal settlements , as well as a call for a ban on arms sales to Israel . From an AFP release : <p> Quote : <p> The Trade Union Congress ( TUC ) voiced support Thursday for a boycott of goods from " illegal " Israeli settlements and urged a ban on arms sales to Israel . <p> In a statement approved by delegates at its annual meeting , the umbrella group of labour unions also condemned the blockade of Gaza and the Israeli offensive on the Palestinian territory at the end of last year . ... <p> TUC General Secretary Brendan Barber stressed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a wider boycott of Israel . <p> " We believe that targeted action , aimed at goods from the illegal settlements and at companies involved in the occupation and the wall is the right way forward , " he said . <p> " This is not a call for a general boycott of Israeli goods and services which would hit ordinary Palestinian and Israeli workers , but targeted , consumer-led sanctions directed at businesses based in , and sustaining , the illegal settlements . " <p> Notwithstanding that some of the stronger resolutions were n't adopted , the above step is huge . As a statement of condemnation of Israel and a call to actual mass action , it deserves to be praised and widely publicized . <p> The Jerusalem Light Rail project , an illegal project that aims at connecting Israeli colonies built on occupied Palestinian territory to the city of Jerusalem , is one of the first major victims of the BDS campaign : <p> Quote : <p> The light rail projects for Jerusalem and Tel Aviv are both facing difficulties . In a body-blow to the future @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was supposed to run the train system after its construction , is abandoning the project .... <p> Veolia has had to contend not only with the delays and difficulties in building the light rail project itself , but with political pressure at home as well . Two months ago a French court heard a lawsuit by a pro-Palestinian group , demanding that the light rail project be halted . <p> The organization based itself on an article in French law that allows the court to void business agreements , signed by French companies , that violate international law . <p> The political pressure on Veolia has been mounting in another direction . According to various reports abroad , the French firm had been losing major projects in Europe because of its involvement in the Jerusalem job . Observers claim that 's the real reason Veolia opted out . <p> " The Brazilian Parliamentary Commission on Foreign Relations and National Defense has recommended that the parliament should not ratify the Free Trade Agreement between Mercosur and the State of Israel until Israel accepts the creation of a Palestinian state based on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blow for Israel 's economy and foreign relations says Jawal Juma of the Stop the Wall Campaign .. ' " <p> An Israeli cabinet minister has cancelled a visit to Britain for fear he might be arrested on allegations he committed war crimes . <p> Several Israeli officials have been threatened with legal action in Britain under laws allowing heinous crimes to be prosecuted outside the country they were committed . <p> Last week lawyers for a Palestinian group tried to secure an arrest warrant for defence minister Ehud Barak , who was in Britain , over allegations he committed war crimes by directing the recent offensive in Gaza . <p> Now , an Israeli vice prime-minister , Moshe Yaalon , has cancelled his own trip after lawyers suggested he could face charges over the assassination of a Hamas leader in 2002 . <p> The Brazilian Parliamentary Commission on Foreign Relations and National Defense has recommended that the parliament should not ratify the Free Trade Agreement ( FTA ) between Mercosur and the State of Israel until " Israel accepts the creation of the Palestinian state on the 1967 borders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Israel to comply with international law , and a rejection of years of incessant Israeli lobbying , pressuring for a vote to ratify the agreement . <p> This decision is an enormous blow for Israel 's economy and foreign relations . It poses a massive stumbling block for the enactment of the agreement , which since its signing in 2007 , has been stalled due to a lack of ratification by Mercosur member countries . The Mercosur is one of the world 's most quickly expanding markets and the fifth largest economy in the world . Israeli exports to the Mercosur amounted nearly 600 million dollars in 2006 . <p> Ehud Olmert , Israel 's prime minister during the Gaza war , would probably face arrest on war crimes charges if he visited Britain , according to a UK lawyer who is working to expand the application of " universal jurisdiction " for offences involving serious human rights abuses committed anywhere in the world . <p> " According to IPSC Cultural Boycott officer Raymond Deane , ' These artists are aware of the Israeli Foreign Ministry 's statement in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tool of the first rank , and do not differentiate between propaganda and culture .. " <p> Shame on Canadian artists like Egoyan and Atwood for breaking this boycott <p> As an activist , this is an aspect of the BDS campaign I 've always found challenging - it 's difficult ( in Canada , anyway ) to find consumer goods to organize around . The Ireland Palestine Solidarity Campaign does n't seem to have that problem , though : http : **38;7289;TOOLONG ... Dozens of activists set up an information picket at Deltaport this morning , designed to slow the transport of containers belonging to the Israeli shipping company Zim . Demonstrators gave truckers and passers-by information about the growing refusal by workers to unload and transport cargo from Israel or shipped by Israeli companies . Vancouver Media Co-op correspondents filed this report . <p> Montreal , January 13 , 2011 -- On Jan. 11 , The Bay quietly informed customers who had objected to the store stocking AHAVA products that it would no longer be doing so . The store said that " from a business perspective , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ B'nai Brith has attributed the Bay 's decision to the AHAVA boycott campaign organized by Canadians for Justice and Peace in the Middle East ( CJPME ) , and indirectly accused CJPME of bigotry . <p> AHAVA is economically linked to Israel 's occupation of the Palestinian territories . Nearly 45 percent of AHAVA is owned by Mitzpe Shalem and Kalia , two illegal Israeli colonies established near the Dead Sea shorelines of the West Bank . Since AHAVA is partially owned by these colonies , its profits directly benefit the colonies and their residents . Another 18 percent of AHAVA is owned by Shamrock Holdings , a large holding firm not only further entangled in other illegal Israeli colonies but one that also invests in the construction of the illegal wall Israel is building . <p> " Politically , BDS has coaxed more and more governments to legitimise Palestine , even going so far as to delegitimise an apartheid Israel .. " <p> But the biggest impact on Israel , ironically , has come from the beleaguered Palestinians themselves . The Palestinian Authority ( PA ) has made it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Palestinian stores . The West Bank market is worth around $200 million a year to Israeli businesses , with some settlement factories selling up to 30 per cent of their output to the Palestinian market . Seventeen factories in Mishor Adumim , a large industrial estate between East Jerusalem and Jericho , closed as a direct result of the PA boycott . <p> As 22,000 Palestinians are employed by settlement businesses , the PA has established a $50 million fund to both discourage Palestinians from working in the settlements and help those who lose their jobs due to BDS successes . <p> Starving international investment was , I believe , what brought down the apartheid regime in S. Africa . But I think the world was less financialized and globalized then . People around the world have to start asking their pension and savings managers where their money is going . <p> Montreal , January 13 , 2011 -- On Jan. 11 , The Bay quietly informed customers who had objected to the store stocking AHAVA products that it would no longer be doing so . The store said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meeting expectations . " However , B'nai Brith has attributed the Bay 's decision to the AHAVA boycott campaign organized by Canadians for Justice and Peace in the Middle East ( CJPME ) , and indirectly accused CJPME of bigotry . <p> AHAVA is economically linked to Israel 's occupation of the Palestinian territories . Nearly 45 percent of AHAVA is owned by Mitzpe Shalem and Kalia , two illegal Israeli colonies established near the Dead Sea shorelines of the West Bank . Since AHAVA is partially owned by these colonies , its profits directly benefit the colonies and their residents . Another 18 percent of AHAVA is owned by Shamrock Holdings , a large holding firm not only further entangled in other illegal Israeli colonies but one that also invests in the construction of the illegal wall Israel is building . <p> I actually have an email from the CEO of The Bay denying this claim . <p> Apparently , the Ahava company is undergoing a restructuring and rebranding and will be relaunching shortly . The Bay will be carrying the new Ahava products . The CEO of The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . <p> One of the companies being targetted in this campaign is Sabra , which makes hummus and various dips and salads . It 's American-made but the company is partly owned by an israel food company . At my local Sobey 's at lunchtime , there was not a single tub on the shelf . <p> Now , it could be they were out of stock . I do n't want to jump to conclusions . I am now , however , eating a vastly inferior tub of hummus and not so happy about it . <p> Did she deny that they have stopped stocking AHAVA products ? I do n't believe you . <p> Did she deny that it was because of declining sales over recent years ? I do n't believe you . <p> Did CJMPE make any claim other than that ? Did they say The Bay has yielded to political pressure and decided to take to the streets in support of justice for Palestinians ? <p> Of course not . <p> So you , the Canada-Israel Committee , the Canadian Jewish Congress , and B'nai @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and when The Bay resumes its sales from this dirty outlaw outfit , we will resume our campaign . 
@@51559555 <h> Palestinians report 1st cases of coronavirus in Gaza Strip <p> GAZA , Palestinian Territory - The Palestinian Health Ministry announced early Sunday that two residents who returned recently from Pakistan to the Gaza Strip tested positive for the coronavirus , the first cases to be diagnosed in the Palestinian enclave . <p> The development added to fears of a potential outbreak in crowded Gaza , which has an overstretched health care system after years of an Israeli-Egyptian blockade , cross-border conflicts with Israel and Palestinian political division . <p> Hundreds of Gazans have returned home in the past two weeks , but only 92 people have been examined , highlighting the territory 's limited tested capacity . <p> Gaza has been mostly cut off from the world as Israel and Egypt imposed severe movement restrictions following the 2007 takeover by the militant Hamas group . This is believed to have delayed the arrival of the virus . <p> Israel and Egypt in the past two years relaxed some travel restrictions on Gaza 's 2 million residents , but they closed their borders again last week as those two countries struggle to contain the coronavirus spreading on their territories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ <p> The ministry said the cases were two people who returned recently from Pakistan . It said they had been moved to isolation at a hospital in Rafah , a city in the southern Gaza Strip . <p> More than 1,270 people are quarantined at hospitals , hotels and schools after crossing into Gaza from Israel and Egypt , the ministry said . On Saturday , Hamas ' Interior Ministry shut down wedding halls and banned weekly street markets as precautionary measures . <p> No deaths from the virus have been reported in the Palestinian areas . In the West Bank , 55 cases have been diagnosed , with 17 recovering , the ministry said . Most of the cases were in the biblical city of Bethlehem . <p> The vast majority of infected people recover from the virus . For most , it produces only mild or moderate symptoms , such as fever and cough . But the coronavirus can cause severe illness , including pneumonia , and even death , for some , especially older adults and people with existing health problems . <p> A 360-square-kilometre ( 139-square-mile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the world 's most densely populated areas . In 2018 , the World Bank said its economy was in " free fall " and called for urgent actions by Israel and the international community to avoid collapse . Unemployment stands at 52% and poverty levels are 50%. 
@@51560952 <h> Covid-19 Briefing <h> A roundup of COVID-19 developments from this weekend <p> The spread of COVID-19 has triggered in me a sense of deja vu that goes back to the birth our daughter . <p> In June of 2003 , we were living in Ottawa as severe acute respiratory syndrome ( SARS ) was on its way to killing nearly 800 people around the world . <p> Masks were in vogue . Public entry to hospitals required running a gauntlet of scrutiny . Hand-washing stations were everywhere . <p> My wife actually enjoyed the relative peace and quiet on the maternity ward , as visitors were greatly restricted . <p> Nearly 17 years later , we are all now dealing with a self-enforced peace and quiet that 's part of the new normal brought about by the coronavirus . It 's safe to say my wife is n't enjoying this new reality while our daughter , like students everywhere , is about to find out what home schooling is like . <p> Over the course of the coming week , our newsroom will take stock of how we are all dealing with life at a distance and how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find the results of that journalism here , along with our ongoing coverage of the pandemic . <p> -Paul Samyn , Winnipeg Free Press editor <h> THE LATEST NUMBERS <p> Manitoba <p> Confirmed : 17 <p> Presumptive : 3 ( As of 6 p.m . Sunday ) <h> THE LATEST FROM MANITOBA PUBLIC HEALTH <p> An additional probable case of COVID-19 has been identified , bringing the total number of lab-confirmed positive and probable positive cases in Manitoba to 20 <p> The twentieth case is a man in his 40s who lives in Winnipeg . Public health officials believe the case is related to travel . <h> THE LATEST ELSEWHERE <p> Emergency measures last resort : Prime Minister Justin Trudeau says Ottawa is not prepared to implement emergency measures . He says provinces and local governments continue to take steps to restrict people 's movements and the federal government will only step in is a last resort . He announced Parliament will reconvene Tuesday to vote on measures to east the burden of the outbreak on individuals and businesses . <p> IOC responds to call to cancel summer Olympics : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fate of this summer 's Tokyo Olympics . In an open letter to athletes , IOC president Thomas Bach said that the world governing body will spend the next four weeks deciding the best option for the Games amid mounting criticism from athletes and sports organizations . <p> Cracking down on ' corona ' parties : Young German adults hold " corona parties " and cough toward older people . A Spanish man leashes a goat to go for a walk to skirt confinement orders . From France to Florida to Australia , kitesurfers , college students and others crowd the beaches . Their defiance of lockdown mandates and scientific advice to fight the coronavirus pandemic has prompted authorities to crack down . <p> German chancellor self-isolates : German Chancellor Angela Merkel has gone into quarantine after being informed that a doctor who administered a vaccine to her has tested positive for the new coronavirus . Merkel , 65 , was informed about the doctor 's test shortly after holding a news conference Sunday . <h> QUOTE , UNQUOTE <p> " Some consider they 're little heroes when they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an imbecile , and especially a threat to yourself . " <p> -French Interior Minister Christophe Castaner <h> LOCAL NEWS <p> Public health officials announced late Sunday afternoon an additional probable case of COVID-19 had been identified , bringing the number of lab-confirmed positive and probable positive cases in Manitoba to 20 . Read More <p> Most weeks , Janna Ingeberg works 30 hours as a cleaner for one of the city 's largest cleaning companies . Cleaning is hard work , but it 's stable , and at $17 per hour , Ingeberg was making enough to pay the $300 rent on her room in a four-person home in the North End , along with other expenses . Read More <h> NATIONAL NEWS <p> OTTAWA - Canada needs a more unified approach in the fight against COVID-19 and the feds " will not hesitate " to step in with stronger measures if provinces ca n't make it happen , the health minister said Sunday . Read More <p> OTTAWA - The unprecedented nature of the economic and health crisis created by COVID-19 means the Conservatives are finessing their approach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Andrew Scheer . Read More <p> FREDERICTON - Nova Scotia Premier Stephen McNeil has declared a provincial state of emergency because he says some people are blatantly ignoring requirements for social distancing and self-isolation during the COVID-19 outbreak . Read More <h> INTERNATIONAL NEWS <p> GAZA , Palestinian Territory - The arrival of the coronavirus in the Gaza Strip , an impoverished enclave where the health care system has been gutted by years of conflict , and Syria , which has been devastated by nine years of civil war and sanctions , raised fears Sunday that the pandemic may soon prey on some of the most vulnerable populations in the world . Read More <p> WASHINGTON - Top-level negotiations between Congress and the White House teetered Sunday over a now nearly $2 trillion economic rescue package , as the coronavirus crisis deepened , the nation shut down and the first U.S. senator tested positive for the disease . Read More <p> ZAGREB , Croatia - A strong earthquake in Croatia on Sunday caused panic , the evacuation of hospitals and widespread damage including to the capital 's iconic cathedral -- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ PARIS - Young German adults hold " corona parties " and cough toward older people . A Spanish man leashes a goat to go for a walk to skirt confinement orders . From France to Florida to Australia , kitesurfers , college students and others crowd the beaches . Read More <p> Manitoba 's health department has implemented guidelines for who to call and where to go if Manitobans are concerned they may have been exposed to the novel coronavirus or are exhibiting symptoms consistent with it . Read More <p> The Free Press would like to thank our readers for their patience while comments were not available on our site . We 're continuing to work with our commenting software provider on issues with the platform . In the meantime , if you 're not able to see comments after logging in to our site , please try refreshing the page . <p> You can comment on most stories on The Winnipeg Free Press website . You can also agree or disagree with other comments . All you need to do is be a Winnipeg Free Press print or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . <h> Have Your Say <h> Have Your Say <p> Comments are open to The Winnipeg Free Press print or digital subscribers only . why ? 
@@51568187 <p> The original event was to be held during Israeli Apartheid Week on the International Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination , calling on progressive movements , groups and organizations fighting all forms of racism , racial discrimination , marginalization and oppression to join forces in advocating for Palestinian rights in the context of global struggles against racial oppression . When public venues were closed due to Covid19 measures , we postponed that event , now to be held through a Zoom online webinar on March 28th , 2020 at 1:00 PM Eastern Time . Please register in advance for this webinar by clicking here . After registering , you will receive a confirmation email containing information about joining the screening and webinar . <p> Film-maker Abby Martin will join us after the screening to discuss the making of her documentary , including a questions and answers period . Filmed during the height of the Great March Of Return protests , it features riveting exclusive footage of demonstrations . The documentary tells the story of Gaza past and present , showing rare archival footage that explains the history never acknowledged by mass media . You hear from victims @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the family of internationally acclaimed paramedic , Razan al-Najjar . At its core , ' Gaza Fights For Freedom ' is a thorough indictment of the Israeli military for war crimes , and a stunning cinematic portrayal of Palestinians ' heroic resistance . <p> We will also be joined for part of the discussion by a Palestinian participant from one our partner organizations in Gaza We Are Not Numbers , a group of aspiring and inspiring young journalists telling their stories of daily life in the Gaza Strip . <p> The Canadian Boat To Gaza raises awareness and support for the FreedomFlotilla 's sailing against the blockade of Gaza , with a focus on the children and youth of Gaza . The Freedom Flotilla 's next sailing , called For the Children of Gaza , will challenge the blockade , while focusing attention on young people in Gaza , who form more than half of the population in that tiny blockaded area . The Canadian Boat to Gaza is part of the Freedom Flotilla Coalition , which contributed for a decade to initiatives including the Women 's Boat to Gaza @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , and Right to a Just Future for Palestine ( 2018 ) . We welcome all support and endorsements that contribute towards the goals and principles of our campaigns . <p> More people are reading rabble.ca than ever and unlike many news organizations , we have never put up a paywall -- at rabble we 've always believed in making our reporting and analysis free to all , while striving to make it sustainable as well . Media is n't free to produce . rabble 's total budget is likely less than what big corporate media spend on photocopying ( we kid you not ! ) and we do not have any major foundation , sponsor or angel investor . Our main supporters are people and organizations -- like you . This is why we need your help . You are what keep us sustainable . <p> rabble.ca has staked its existence on you . We live or die on community support -- your support ! We get hundreds of thousands of visitors and we believe in them . We believe in you . We believe people will put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ call that sustainable . <p> So what is the easy answer for us ? Depend on a community of visitors who care passionately about media that amplifies the voices of people struggling for change and justice . It really is that simple . When the people who visit rabble care enough to contribute a bit then it works for everyone . <p> And so we 're asking you if you could make a donation , right now , to help us carry forward on our mission . Make a donation today . 
@@51569452 <p> OTTAWA -- International Development Minister Karina Gould says Canada will spend millions to help the world 's most desperate people fight COVID-19 because it is in the country 's long-term security interest as well as being the right thing to do . <p> Gould says that 's why Canada has earmarked $50 million , part of its response to today 's launch of the United Nations COVID-19 humanitarian response plan . <p> In an interview with The Canadian Press , Gould rebutted criticism in some quarters that the government ought to be focusing instead on Canadians hunkering down at home to limit the spread of the virus . <p> UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres is set to launch a $2-billion global appeal today , calling for a co-ordinated response to help the world 's war-torn , displaced and otherwise most destitute people who are facing new misery because of the pandemic . <p> Guterres has sent a letter to the G20 members , including Canada , urging them to spend more to prevent the virus from spreading like wildfire in developing countries burdened by poor health systems and massive refugee influxes . <p> Gould says the government needs to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but it must also spend $50 million globally to protect Canada 's future security and economic prosperity from a virus that knows no borders . <p> " The world is connected ... Whatever happens over there , far away , is something that can very easily come to our doorstep . " <p> Last week , Conservative leadership candidate Erin O'Toole criticized the government for the overseas spending , saying on Twitter : " Foreign aid can wait . Right now , the Trudeau government should prioritize Canadians . " <p> Gould did n't mention O'Toole by name , but she addressed the underlying sentiment of his tweet . <p> " Canada absolutely has to protect our own citizens , but part of protecting our own citizens is being part of that global response , " she said . <p> " It 's a bit of an enlightened self-interest , " Gould added . " We absolutely need to be thinking about the world 's poorest and most vulnerable because if we 're not thinking about them , we 're also putting ourselves at risk . " <p> The government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to groups such as the World Health Organization , the International Committee of the Red Cross and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees to help them fight the pandemic . <p> Gould said she is speaking with numerous UN agencies and other international organizations to target where the rest of the money should be spent . <p> There is no shortage of options , including from the world 's largest refugee camp in Bangladesh where 700,000 Rohingya exiles from Myanmar are crammed into squalid conditions and where preventative hand-washing and social distancing are next to impossible . There are also overcrowded refugee camps on Greek islands and in the Democratic Republic of Congo , not to mention armed conflicts in Somalia , South Sudan , Syria and Yemen . <p> One key message Gould is hearing is that there can be no backsliding in current aid spending . Otherwise , the world could face outbreaks of diseases that have already been contained such as polio , tuberculosis and malaria . She also does n't want to see money diverted away from helping improve the sexual and reproductive health of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ebola outbreak of six years ago killed 3,000 people in Congo , another 6,000 children died from a measles outbreak that could n't be contained at the same time . <p> Gould said she 's stressing the need for " a fierce commitment " to preserving development and humanitarian programs in all her international conversations . <p> " If we were to take a step back from those , the collateral damage and the generation of children that could be left behind because of this is even greater than the risk that we face with COVID . " <p> Gould said she 's worried about how isolation and quarantine measures can lead to an increase in domestic and gender-based violence . <p> Rema Jamous Imseis , the UN refugee agency 's Canadian representative , said Gould spoke with her organization 's High Commissioner Filippo Grandi Tuesday about doing more for the Rohingya in Bangladesh , and the need to scale up responses to sexual and gender-based violence . <p> " Canada has already done quite a bit and we hope to see more coming from them when the appeal is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " We know that no matter what measures you take here , nationally , to prevent the spread of the virus , as long as you have situations around the world with weak health systems and an inability to cope with the demands that are placed on them with this pandemic , the virus knows no boundaries . " <p> David Morley , the president of UNICEF Canada , said millions of uprooted children in war zones are dying from preventable causes or not getting essential vaccines . <p> " With COVID-19 cases hitting Syria and Gaza , it is only a matter of time before we see the spread throughout refugee camps and these vulnerable populations , " Morley said . <p> UNICEF is concerned about the plight of refugee children on the Greek islands , where there are more than 41,000 refugees , including 13,000 children . A reception centre designed to hold 3,000 people has now swelled to 20,000 , he said . <p> Though European borders are shut , Morley said UNICEF is stepping up its call to try to relocate children to Germany , Finland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ <p> " People in developing contexts care for their family members just like we do here , " said Michael Messenger , the president of World Vision Canada . " We can focus both on responses here at home , as well the world 's most vulnerable . That 's the Canadian way . " <p> We welcome your feedback and encourage you to share your thoughts on this story . We ask that you be respectful of others and their points of view , refrain from personal attacks and stay on topic . To learn about our commenting policies and how we moderate , please read our Community Guidelines . 
@@51572397 <p> International Development Minister Karina Gould responds to a question during Question Period in the House of Commons Tuesday December 10 , 2019 in Ottawa . The Trudeau government is preparing its response to Wednesday morning 's UN launch COVID-19 humanitarian response plan . THE CANADIAN PRESS/Adrian Wyld <p> OTTAWA -- Canada will spend millions to help the world 's most desperate people fight COVID-19 because it is in the country 's long-term security interest as well as being the right thing to do , says International Development Minister Karina Gould . <p> Gould says that 's why Canada has earmarked $50 million , part of its response to today 's launch of the United Nations COVID-19 humanitarian response plan . <p> In an interview with The Canadian Press , Gould rebutted criticism in some quarters that the government ought to be focusing instead on Canadians hunkering down at home to limit the spread of the novel coronavirus . <p> " The world is connected ... Whatever happens over there , far away , is something that can very easily come to our doorstep , " she said . <p> UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres launched a $2-billion global appeal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world 's war-torn , displaced and most destitute people , who are facing new misery because of the pandemic . The appeal is targeting the spread of the virus in South America , Africa , the Middle East and Asia . <p> " COVID-19 is menacing the whole of humanity -- and so the whole of humanity must fight back . Individual country responses are not going to be enough , " Guterres said in a statement . <p> Gould said the government needs to help Canadians at home with an $82-billion spending package , but it must also spend $50 million globally to protect Canada 's future security and economic prosperity from a virus that knows no borders . <p> Last week , Conservative leadership candidate Erin O'Toole criticized the government for the overseas spending , saying on Twitter : " Foreign aid can wait . Right now , the Trudeau government should prioritize Canadians . " <p> Gould did n't mention O'Toole by name , but she addressed the underlying sentiment of his tweet . <p> " Canada absolutely has to protect our own citizens , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that global response , " she said . <p> " It 's a bit of an enlightened self-interest , " Gould added . " We absolutely need to be thinking about the world 's poorest and most vulnerable because if we 're not thinking about them , we 're also putting ourselves at risk . " <p> Prime Minister Justin Trudeau spoke by phone on Wednesday to the presidents of Rwanda and Senegal and pledged " Canada 's support through advice and international assistance " on COVID-19 , said a statement from his office . <p> The government has earmarked $8 million of the $50 million spending package to groups such as the World Health Organization , the International Committee of the Red Cross and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees to help them fight the pandemic . <p> Gould said she is speaking with numerous UN agencies and other international organizations to target where the rest of the money should be spent . <p> There is no shortage of options , including the world 's largest refugee camp in Bangladesh where 700,000 Rohingya exiles from Myanmar are crammed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are next to impossible . There are also overcrowded refugee camps on Greek islands and in the Democratic Republic of Congo , and armed conflicts in Somalia , South Sudan , Syria and Yemen . <p> One message Gould said she is hearing is that there can be no cuts to current aid spending . Otherwise , the world could face outbreaks of diseases that have already been contained such as polio , tuberculosis and malaria . She also does n't want to see money diverted from helping improve the sexual and reproductive health of girls and women . <p> Gould said many lessons can be learned from past African Ebola outbreaks . She noted that while the 2019 outbreak in Congo killed 3,000 people , another 6,000 children died from a measles outbreak that could n't be contained at the same time . <p> Gould said she 's stressing the need for " a fierce commitment " to preserving development and humanitarian programs in all her international conversations . <p> " If we were to take a step back from those , the collateral damage and the generation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even greater than the risk that we face with COVID . " <p> Gould said she 's worried about how isolation and quarantines can lead to an increase in domestic and gender-based violence . <p> Rema Jamous Imseis , the UN refugee agency 's Canadian representative , said Gould spoke with her organization 's High Commissioner Filippo Grandi Tuesday about doing more for the Rohingya in Bangladesh , and the need to scale up responses to sexual and gender-based violence . <p> " Canada has already done quite a bit and we hope to see more coming from them when the appeal is launched , " she said in an interview . <p> " We know that no matter what measures you take here , nationally , to prevent the spread of the virus , as long as you have situations around the world with weak health systems and an inability to cope with the demands that are placed on them with this pandemic , the virus knows no boundaries . " <p> David Morley , the president of UNICEF Canada , said millions of uprooted children in war zones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . <p> " With COVID-19 cases hitting Syria and Gaza , it is only a matter of time before we see the spread throughout refugee camps and these vulnerable populations , " Morley said . <p> UNICEF is concerned about refugee children on the Greek islands , where there are more than 41,000 refugees , including 13,000 children . A reception centre designed to hold 3,000 people has now swelled to 20,000 , he said . <p> Though European borders are shut , Morley said UNICEF is stepping up its call to try to relocate children to Germany , Finland and other countries that have committed to take them . <p> " People in developing contexts care for their family members just like we do here , " said Michael Messenger , the president of World Vision Canada . " We can focus both on responses here at home , as well the world 's most vulnerable . That 's the Canadian way . " 
@@51572562 <h> Palestinians report 1st cases of coronavirus in Gaza Strip <p> GAZA , Palestinian Territory -- The Palestinian Health Ministry announced early Sunday that two residents who returned recently from Pakistan to the Gaza Strip tested positive for the coronavirus , the first cases to be diagnosed in the Palestinian enclave . <p> The development added to fears of a potential outbreak in crowded Gaza , which has an overstretched health care system after years of an Israeli-Egyptian blockade , cross-border conflicts with Israel and Palestinian political division . <h> Trending Stories <p> Hundreds of Gazans have returned home in the past two weeks , but only 92 people have been examined , highlighting the territory 's limited tested capacity . <p> Gaza has been mostly cut off from the world as Israel and Egypt imposed severe movement restrictions following the 2007 takeover by the militant Hamas group . This is believed to have delayed the arrival of the virus . <p> Israel and Egypt in the past two years relaxed some travel restrictions on Gaza 's 2 million residents , but they closed their borders again last week as those two countries struggle to contain the coronavirus spreading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ return home . <p> The ministry said the cases were two people who returned recently from Pakistan . It said they had been moved to isolation at a hospital in Rafah , a city in the southern Gaza Strip . <p> More than 1,270 people are quarantined at hospitals , hotels and schools after crossing into Gaza from Israel and Egypt , the ministry said . On Saturday , Hamas ' Interior Ministry shut down wedding halls and banned weekly street markets as precautionary measures . <p> No deaths from the virus have been reported in the Palestinian areas . In the West Bank , 55 cases have been diagnosed , with 17 recovering , the ministry said . Most of the cases were in the biblical city of Bethlehem . <p> The vast majority of infected people recover from the virus . For most , it produces only mild or moderate symptoms , such as fever and cough . But the coronavirus can cause severe illness , including pneumonia , and even death , for some , especially older adults and people with existing health problems . <p> A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Strip is one of the world 's most densely populated areas . In 2018 , the World Bank said its economy was in " free fall " and called for urgent actions by Israel and the international community to avoid collapse . Unemployment stands at 52% and poverty levels are 50%. 
@@51576767 <h> Egypt , Syria announce nighttime curfews to slow virus <p> Even before the curfew was announced , lines had formed outside grocery stores , banks and gas stations across the Syrian capital , Damascus , as people braced for wider closures . ( Pexels photo ) <p> CAIRO -- The Middle East 's most populous country , Egypt , as well as Syria , a country ravaged by nine years of war , will impose nightly curfews starting this week in an effort to stop the spread of the new coronavirus , their governments announced Tuesday , <p> The International Monetary Fund meanwhile warned that a shortage of medical supplies could affect the Mideast 's poorest nations . <p> There are over 31,000 confirmed cases of the virus across the Mideast , the vast majority in the hard-hit nation of Iran . While most recover from the virus and the COVID-19 illness that it causes , bottoming crude oil prices have put additional strain on even the region 's wealthiest countries . That in turn could affect their ability to spend on needed supplies as the virus challenges medical systems worldwide . <p> Already , countries have reacted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to stay home . Egypt , home to over 100 million alone , and Syria , became the latest on Tuesday . <p> Egyptian Prime Minister Moustafa Madbouly told a news conference that the 11-hour nationwide curfew from 7 p.m. until 6 a.m. would go into effect Wednesday , during which various forms of transportation will also come to a halt . <p> Egypt has 402 confirmed cases and 22 fatalities , including two senior military officers . <p> Madbouly announced the continued closure of airports , schools and universities until April 12 . He said shops and malls will close Fridays and Saturdays , Egypt 's weekend . Groceries , bakeries and pharmacies would be excluded from the closure order . <p> He said further restrictions would be implemented " according to developments , " without elaborating . <p> President Abdel Fattah el-Sissi tweeted that he expects Egyptians to " respond positively to these measures , in order to protect the security and safety of our beloved Egypt , " <p> He warned that attempts to violate the announced measures would be confronted with " the utmost firmness and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , dozens of people took to their balconies before dawn to pray for help against the virus , online videos showed . Other footage showed some three dozen people marching in a side street and chanting : " There is no God but Allah , and Muhammad is his Messenger . " <p> Egypt 's Interior Ministry , which oversees the police , said it had arrested " a number " of organizers of the Alexandria gathering . <p> El-Sissi 's government has banned large gatherings , closed all its museums and archaeological sites including the famed Giza Pyramids and locked down tourist cities in the south and the Red Sea . Religious authorities have closed churches and mosques . <p> In Syria , where the healthcare system has been decimated by nearly a decade of civil war , the government said a 12-hour curfew beginning at 6 p.m. ( 1600 GMT ) will go into effect Wednesday . State news agency SANA did not say how long the nighttime curfew would continue , but it appeared to be open-ended . <p> Syria has reported only one case of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in government-held areas including halting commercial flights , closing borders with neighbouring countries and shutting down restaurants and public transportation . <p> Even before the curfew was announced , lines had formed outside grocery stores , banks and gas stations across the Syrian capital , Damascus , as people braced for wider closures . <p> The IMF , which traditionally has told governments to implement greater austerity measures , was urging Mideast governments to offer temporary tax relief and cash transfers . It warned a lack of medical supplies could hurt Iraq , Sudan and Yemen if it leads to a surge in prices . <p> " Given the large numbers of people employed in the service sector , there will be wide reverberations if unemployment rises and wages and remittances fall , " the IMF 's director for the Middle East , Jihad Azour , said in statement . <p> In the impoverished Gaza Strip , Hamas-run religious authorities announced all mosques will be shut down for two weeks starting Wednesday . Schools had already closed . <p> Donations from Qatar of food , electric appliances , clothes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gaza . It 's part of a $150 million boost from Qatar to fight the virus announced Sunday . <p> An Israeli-Egyptian blockade of Gaza , in place since the militant group took power in 2007 , has slowed the arrival of the new virus to the densely populated Palestinian enclave . <p> After detecting two coronavirus cases earlier this week among returnees from abroad already in quarantine , Hamas imposed further precautions and closures . Gaza 's Health Ministry said it has opened more than 20 quarantine facilities already housing 1,400 people . <p> The arrival of the pandemic in Syria , as well as the impoverished Gaza Strip , has raised concerns the virus could run rampant in some of the most vulnerable areas in the Middle East . War-torn Libya and Yemen , which have yet to report any cases , are also a source of concern . <p> The worst outbreak in the Mideast is unfolding in Iran , where authorities reported another 122 deaths on Tuesday , bringing the total number of fatalities to more than 1,900 amid more than 24,800 confirmed cases . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , the state-run IRNA news agency said Monday . <p> Health Ministry spokesman Kianoush Jahanpour warned the public that infections will likely rise further , as Iran now has more ability to test and screen suspected cases . The ministry has launched a website for the public to report if they suspect they have the virus , so medical staff can come administer tests . <p> So far , 41 million people have used the site , Jahanpour said . Iran is home to some 80 million people . <p> The sultanate of Oman meanwhile announced it would halt all passenger flights beginning Sunday , although cargo flights would continue . <p> Saudi Arabia announced Tuesday that its virus cases jumped from 562 to 767 , and included its first death . 
@@51576769 <h> China sends medical aid to Pakistan to combat virus outbreak <p> China has sought to portray itself as a global leader in the fight against the outbreak , which began a few months ago in its Wuhan province . ( Pixabay photo ) <p> ISLAMABAD -- China sent a plane loaded with medical personnel and supplies Saturday to help Pakistan fight the spread of the coronavirus in one of the world 's most populous nations . <p> Across the Middle East and elsewhere , the outbreak has raised concerns that health systems strapped by multiple wars , refugee crises and unstable economies wo n't be able to handle the growing number of cases . In Iran , which is battling the worst outbreak in the region , state TV said Saturday another 139 people had died from the virus . That pushed the total fatalities in Iran to 2,517 amid 35,408 confirmed cases . <p> China has sought to portray itself as a global leader in the fight against the outbreak , which began a few months ago in its Wuhan province . The plane carrying aid to Pakistan was met at the capital 's airport by Foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doctors and officials . <p> China had previously sent ventilators and masks to Pakistan , a key link in China 's ambitious multi-billion-dollar One Road Project linking south and central Asia with China . China is also a key military supplier for nuclear-armed Pakistan , having supplied the country with missiles capable of carrying atomic weapons . <p> Pakistan , with a population of 220 million , has 1,408 confirmed cases of the coronavirus , including 11 deaths from the illness it causes , COVID-19 . Most of the infected people have been travellers returning from neighbouring Iran . <p> Most people infected by the virus only experience mild symptoms , such as fever and cough , and recover within a few weeks . But the virus can cause severe respiratory illness and death , particularly in older patients or those with underlying health problems . <p> Pakistan has closed its borders with both Iran and Afghanistan , but has come under widespread criticism for its initial lax response to the virus . <p> Even as the pandemic spread to the country , Pakistani authorities allowed tens of thousands of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ days outside the eastern city of Lahore . Some 200 of the clerics are now quarantined at the site of the gathering , a sprawling compound belonging to an Islamic missionaries group , Tableeghi Jamaat . <p> Many of the visiting clerics at the conference returned to their home countries , some of them carrying the coronavirus . The first two reported cases in the Gaza Strip attended the three-day gathering in Pakistan , and are now under quarantine in Gaza . Other linked cases have emerged elsewhere in the Middle East and Central Asia . <p> As of Saturday , the government still had not ordered mosques closed nationwide , instead relying on recommendations to worshippers not to gather for weekly Friday prayers . Pakistani officials are reluctant to defy local hard-line Islamic leaders , who can whip up mobs to protest any perceived insults to religion . Some of these clerics have taken to social media to urge the faithful to fill the mosques , saying it is their religious obligation . <p> Pakistan 's federal health authorities say the outbreak is so far concentrated in Punjab province @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which has 457 confirmed infections . Other cases are spread throughout several other regions , including the capital , Islamabad . <p> Health authorities in the country 's northwestern Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province reported one additional death Saturday , a woman in the district of Dir . Ajmal Wazir , a spokesman for the provincial government , said the woman fell sick after returning from a pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia , before dying in a government hospital where she tested positive for the coronavirus . <p> In Iran , officials have repeatedly insisted they have the outbreak under control , despite concerns it could overwhelm the country 's health facilities . <p> Iran 's government has faced widespread criticism for not acting faster to contain the virus . Only in recent days have authorities ordered nonessential businesses to close and banned travel between cities -- long after other nations in the region imposed sweeping lockdowns . <p> In Egypt the country 's chief prosecutor warned that anyone convicted of spreading " fake news and rumours " about the coronavirus could be fined or sentenced to up to five years in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just days after Egypt expelled a correspondent for The Guardian newspaper over a report citing a study that challenged the official count of coronavirus cases in the Arab world 's most populous country . <p> Egypt 's Health Ministry has confirmed 576 cases of the virus and reported six additional fatalities Saturday , bringing the number of dead to 36 . <p> U.S. Ambassador to Libya Richard Norland on Saturday urged the country 's warring groups to suspend fighting in and around the capital , Tripoli , as " an absolute necessity " to allow public health officials across the divided country to contain the epidemic . <p> Libya 's health system is near the point of collapse after years of civil war . It has so far reported three confirmed cases of coronavirus . <p> Authorities in Gaza , which has been under an Israeli and Egyptian blockade since the Hamas militant group seized power there in 2007 , have reported nine confirmed cases . <p> Gaza 's health care infrastructure has been severely eroded by years of conflict and isolation . A major outbreak in the territory , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could be extremely difficult to contain . <p> Organizers of weekly demonstrations along the Gaza-Israel frontier said they would cancel a rally that was scheduled for next week to abide by guidelines to avoid the spread of the virus . Khaled al-Batsh , head of the Great March of Return committee , said the rally was to mark the second anniversary of the protest movement . 
