@@31685143 <h> Six killed in Israeli air raid on Damascus : Monitor <p> Palestinian Islamic Jihad says two of its fighters killed in Israeli bombing in Syria as air raids are reported in Gaza . <p> 24 Feb 2020 12:19 GMT <p> Al Jazeera also received independent confirmation about air raids in Gaza , but there were no immediate reports on casualties Walid Mahmoud/Al Jazeera <p> Six people have been killed in an Israeli air attack on Damascus , a war monitor said on Monday , as Israel confirmed raids on the Syrian capital as well as on the besieged Gaza Strip . <p> A statement from the Palestinian Islamic Jihad ( PIJ ) armed group on Monday said two men , who were members of the group , were killed during the " Zionist bombing in Damascus " , which took place late on Sunday night . <h> More : <p> The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights ( SOHR ) , a UK-based war monitor , later confirmed that four additional pro-al-Assad , Iran-backed fighters died in the attack . <p> At least one of the Iran-backed fighters was Syrian , while the nationalities of the others remained unknown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ <p> " This cowardly aggression in Damascus was a reflection of the enemy 's failure to confront our fighters inside occupied Palestine , " the PIJ said . <p> An AFP correspondent in Damascus heard several loud explosions shortly before the midnight local time ( 22:00 GMT ) . <p> The SOHR said the attacks were " near the Damascus international airport " . <p> The Syrian state news agency SANA said " most of the enemy missiles were shot down before reaching their targets " , stressing that " no airport " was struck . <p> Earlier , SANA said anti-air defences were activated against attacks " in the Damascus area " . <p> Israel said it launched the attack south of Damascus following rocket fire from the Palestinian territory , Gaza . <p> " In the Adeliyah region , outside of Damascus , an Islamic Jihad compound was struck , used as a hub of Islamic Jihad 's activity in Syria , " the Israeli army said in a statement while confirming several other attacks in Gaza . <p> It is rare for Israel to claim such attacks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the air raids in Gaza . According to a statement by the Israeli army , " Israeli military planes targeted Islamic Jihad targets in Gaza " including the Khan Younis headquarters of the group and several storage sites in the southern city of Rafah . <p> Images received by Al Jazeera showed a ball of fire lighting up the night sky in one Gaza neighbourhood , as thick smoke rose . According to the Palestinian news agency , Maan , four people were injured . 
@@31685144 <h> The failed deals of the century <h> We read all 181 pages of Trump 's Middle East Peace Plan to find out how the ' deal of the century ' compares with the last 100 years of Israeli-Palestinian negotiations . <p> On January 28 , 2020 , US President Donald Trump formally announced his long-awaited Middle East Peace Plan to resolve the seven-decade-long Israeli -- Palestinian conflict . <p> He hailed it as " the deal of the century " . <p> But is this new plan any different from the many previous deals and declarations that have tried to determine the fate of the Palestinian people ? <p> To find out , we read all 181 pages of Trump 's " Vision for Peace " and compared it to the most notable documents on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict starting with the Balfour Declaration of 1917 . <h> The failed deals of the century - visualised : <h> What 's in Trump 's Middle East plan ? <p> The 29,000 word plan contains two parts : <p> Part A is a political framework which proposes : <p> Redrawing the boundaries to incorporate the vast majority of illegal Israeli settlements into Israeli territory and annexing the Jordan Valley ( section 4 ) ; <p> Recognising " Al Quds " which is the Arabic word for Jerusalem as the capital of a future State of Palestine while also , in contradiction , recognising Jerusalem as the " undivided capital " of Israel ( section 5 ) ; <p> Requiring that the State of Palestine remain fully demilitarised ( section 7 ) ; and <p> Part B contains an economic framework which promises to " facilitate more than $50 billion in new investment over ten years " . This includes the construction of a tunnel between the West Bank and Gaza Strip and an artificial island off the coast of Gaza to develop a port and airport . <p> No Palestinians were consulted on Trump 's Middle East plan , nor were any invited to the launch Mandel Ngan / AFP <h> Explore the complete text : <h> Click to show/hide topics <h> Part A : Political framework <h> Peace to prosperity - A Vision to Improve the Lives of the Palestinian and Israeli People <h> SECTION ONE <h> INTRODUCTION <h> BACKGROUND <p> Israelis and Palestinians have both suffered greatly from their long-standing and seemingly interminable conflict . For nearly a century , international leaders , diplomats , and scholars have debated the issues and attempted to resolve this conflict . The world has changed greatly during this period , as have the security challenges facing the Middle East . Many of the disputed issues have remained largely the same , and stubbornly intractable . The time has come to end the conflict , and unlock the vast human potential and economic opportunity that peace will bring to Israelis , Palestinians and the region as a whole . Over the decades , many proposals and ideas have been put forward , but elements of those plans were unachievable given the realities on the ground and in the broader Middle East . While no plan will give either side all of what it wants , what follows is our view of the best , most realistic and most achievable outcome for the parties . <p> Palestinians have aspirations that have not been realized , including self-determination , improvement of their standard of living , social betterment , and a respected place in the region , as well as among the nations of the world . Many Palestinians desire peace and recognize the enormous economic opportunities and social benefits that await them if relations with the State of Israel can be normalized . Gaza is a very complicated situation . It is under the control of Hamas , a terrorist organization , and , as a result of Hamas ' policies , is approaching a humanitarian crisis . It is time to help the Palestinians achieve a hopeful and prosperous future and enable them to join the community of nations . <p> The State of Israel has made peace with two of its neighbors . It made peace with the Arab Republic of Egypt in 1979 and it made peace with the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan in 1994 , two countries with which the State of Israel had fought multiple wars and numerous border skirmishes . The State of Israel has also exchanged sizeable territories for the sake of peace , as it did when it withdrew from the Sinai Peninsula in exchange for peace with the Arab Republic of Egypt . While Israeli citizens have suffered greatly as a result of violence and terrorism , Israelis still desire peace . These two peace agreements , now 40 and 25 years old , have endured and bettered the lives of citizens in Israel , Jordan and Egypt . <p> The conflict between the State of Israel and the Palestinians has kept other Arab countries from normalizing their relationships and jointly pursuing a stable , secure , and prosperous region . One reason for the intractability of this problem is the conflation of two separate conflicts : a territorial , security and refugee dispute between Israel and the Palestinians and a religious dispute between Israel and the Muslim world regarding control over places of religious significance . The absence of formal relations between Israel and most Muslim and Arab countries has only exacerbated the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians . We believe that if more Muslim and Arab countries normalize relations with Israel it will help advance a just and fair resolution to the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians , and prevent radicals from using this conflict to destabilize the region . <h> OSLO <p> In 1993 , the State of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization reached the first of several interim agreements , known collectively as the Oslo Accords . <p> Prime Minister Yitzchak Rabin , who signed the Oslo Accords and who in 1995 gave his life to the cause of peace , outlined in his last speech to the Israeli Knesset his vision regarding the ultimate resolution of the conflict . He envisioned Jerusalem remaining united under Israeli rule , the portions of the West Bank with large Jewish populations and the Jordan Valley being incorporated into Israel , and the remainder of the West Bank , along with Gaza , becoming subject to Palestinian civil autonomy in what he said would be something " less than a state . " Rabin 's vision was the basis upon which the Knesset approved the Oslo Accords , and it was not rejected by the Palestinian leadership at the time . <p> One of the most significant understandings within those agreements provided for security cooperation between the Israel Defense Forces ( the " IDF " ) and the Palestinian Authority Security Forces ( the " PASF " ) . While not perfect , and subject to periodic disputes and even suspension , the security cooperation in recent years has greatly enhanced the stability of the West Bank for both Palestinian and Israeli residents . The ability of the IDF and the PASF to work cooperatively together provides hope that security challenges can be bridged in a final Israeli-PalestinianPeace Agreement . <p> The Oslo Accords , however , left numerous key issues unresolved pending the completion of permanent status negotiations , including , among other items , borders , security , refugees and Jerusalem . Those agreements did not create an effective path for neutralizing the kinds of crises that emerged during the implementation of Oslo , including waves of terror and violence . Many intelligent and dedicated people have devoted lifetimes in search of the " ultimate deal , " but what is required , a comprehensive agreement has been elusive , and waves of terror and violence have set back the process significantly . Only a comprehensive agreement , coupled with a strong economic plan for the Palestinians and others , has the capacity to bring lasting peace to the parties . <h> REALISTIC TWO-STATE SOLUTION <p> The principles set forth in this Vision for Peace , Prosperity and a Brighter Future ( collectively , this " VISION " ) , are designed for the benefit of Palestinians , Israelis and the region as a whole . This Vision addresses today 's realities , and provides the Palestinians , who do not yet have a state , with a path to a dignified national life , respect , security and economic opportunity and , at the same time , safeguards Israel 's security . <p> A realistic solution would give the Palestinians all the power to govern themselves but not the powers to threaten Israel . This necessarily entails the limitations of certain sovereign powers in the Palestinian areas ( henceforth referred to as the " Palestinian State " ) such as maintenance of Israeli security responsibility and Israeli control of the airspace west of the Jordan River . This Vision creates a realistic Two-State solution in which a secure and prosperous State of Palestine is living peacefully alongside a secure and prosperous State of Israel in a secure and prosperous region . <p> Today , that concept seems so far from reality . Gaza and the West Bank are politically divided . Gaza is run by Hamas , a terror organization that has fired thousands of rockets at Israel and murdered hundreds of Israelis . In the West Bank , the Palestinian Authority is plagued by failed institutions and endemic corruption . Its laws incentivize terrorism and Palestinian Authority controlled media and schools promote a culture of incitement . It is because of the lack of accountability and bad governance that billions of dollars have been squandered and investment is unable to flow into these areas to allow the Palestinians to thrive . <p> The Palestinians deserve a better future and this Vision can help them achieve that future . Palestinian leaders must embrace peace by recognizing Israel as the Jewish state , rejecting terrorism in all its forms , allowing for special arrangements that address Israel 's and the region 's vital security needs , building effective institutions and choosing pragmatic solutions . If these steps are taken and the criteria set forth in this Vision are satisfied , then the United States will support the establishment of a Palestinian State . <p> This Vision is security-focused , and provides both self-determination and significant economic opportunity for Palestinians . We believe that this design will enable this Vision to be successfully implemented . This Vision also provides positive benefits to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan , the Arab Republic of Egypt and countries throughout the region . <h> OPPORTUNITIES FOR REGIONAL COOPERATION <p> The Middle East has gone through dramatic shifts since the beginning of this conflict . In confronting common threats and in pursuing common interests , previously unimaginable opportunities and alliances are emerging . The threats posed by Iran 's radical regime for example , have led to a new reality , where the State of Israel and its Arab neighbors now share increasingly similar perceptions of the threats to their security . If peace can be achieved , the economic and security cooperation between the State of Israel and its Arab neighbors can create a prosperous Middle East that is connected by a common desire for security and economic opportunity . If implemented , this Vision can lead to direct flights between the State ofIsrael and its neighbors , the transport of people and commerce and the unlocking of opportunities for millions of people to visit religious sites sacred to their faiths . <h> ECONOMIC VISION FOR A PROSPEROUS FUTURE <p> We developed a detailed economic vision for what the future for the Palestinians could be if there were peace . There has been a false notion that the lack of opportunity for the Palestinian people is Israel 's sole responsibility . Solving the final status issues , in the manner described in this Vision , would create the necessary conditions for investment to start flowing into the region . We estimate that combining this political solution with the economic vision for investments and government reforms that we have laid out will lead to historic economic growth . We estimate that the Palestinian GDP , which has been stagnant , could double in 10 years , create over 1 million new jobs , reduce the unemployment rate below 10 percent , and reduce the poverty rate by 50 percent . This plan is ready to be implemented in the event that peace can be made on terms consistent with this Vision . <h> SECTION TWO <h> THE APPROACH <p> We do not believe that the parties in the region are fated to live in eternal conflict because of their different ethnicities and faiths . There have been many examples in history of Jews and Arabs , and Jews and Muslims and Christians , living in relative harmony in this region . Our hope is that this Vision inspires a future in which all the peoples in the region live together in peace and prosperity . <p> We have developed this Vision based on the belief that a peaceful and prosperous future can exist for Palestinians and Israelis alike . This Vision is intended for people to read , understand and imagine how its concepts will actually and dramatically improve their lives . We believe that both sides gain more than they give . Based on this approach , we encourage all to be intellectually honest , open to new ideas , willing to engage on this Vision and take courageous steps toward a better future for themselves and for future generations . <p> Learning from past efforts , and driven by pragmatic principles , we approach this conflict guided by the following points : <h> OVERVIEW OF UNITED NATIONS EFFORTS <p> Since 1946 , there have been close to 700 United Nations General Assembly resolutions and over 100 United Nations Security Council resolutions in connection with this conflict . United Nations resolutions are sometimes inconsistent and sometimes time-bound . These resolutions have not brought about peace . Furthermore different parties have offered conflicting interpretations of some of the most significant United Nations resolutions , including United NationsSecurity Council Resolution 242 . Indeed , legal scholars who have worked directly on critical United Nations resolutions have differed on their meaning and legal effect . <p> While we are respectful of the historic role of the United Nations in the peace process , this Vision is not a recitation of General Assembly , Security Council and other international resolutions on this topic because such resolutions have not and will not resolve the conflict . For too long these resolutions have enabled political leaders to avoid addressing the complexities of this conflict rather than enabling a realistic path to peace . <h> CURRENT REALITIES <p> Both Israelis and Palestinians have long-standing negotiating positions but also must recognize that compromise is necessary to move forward . It is inevitable that each side will support and oppose aspects of this Vision . It is essential that this Vision be assessed holistically . This Vision presents a package of compromises that both sides should consider , in order to move forward and pursue a better future that will benefit both of them and others in the region . <p> A peace agreement will be forged only when each side recognizes that it is better off with a peace agreement than without one , even one that requires difficult compromises . Peace between Israelis and Palestinians will lead to significant social and economic improvements , stability , and security for Israelis and Palestinians alike . <p> There are those who benefit from the status quo and , accordingly , seek to prevent change that would benefit both parties . <p> Reciting past narratives about the conflict is unproductive . In order to resolve this conflict , the solution must be forward-looking and dedicated to the improvement of security and quality of life , while being respectful of the historic and religious significance of the region to its peoples . <p> Limited framework agreements and vague proposals , which are heavily wordsmithed and include only high-level concepts , but leave the disagreements to be resolved later , have not worked . This Vision directly addresses all major issues in an attempt to genuinely resolve the conflict . <p> Solving this conflict will not solve all the other conflicts in the region . However , resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict will remove a pretext used to stoke emotion and justify radical behavior by bad actors and have a positive impact that will increase stability , security and prosperity in the region . <p> The Israeli-PalestinianPeace Agreement will deeply and profoundly impact Israelis and Palestinians . It is the Israelis and Palestinians who will have to live with the consequences of a peace agreement . Therefore , it is Israelis and Palestinians themselves , who must be satisfied with the benefits and compromises that a peace agreement entails.Israelis and Palestinians must weigh those benefits and compromises , which can create a far better future for themselves and future generations , against the continuation of the conflict for perhaps generations to come . <p> The role of the United States as facilitator in this process has been to collect ideas from around the world , compile them , and propose a detailed set of recommendations that can realistically and appropriately solve the conflict . The role of the United States is also to work together with other well-meaning countries and organizations to assist the parties in reaching a resolution to the conflict . But only the Israelis and Palestinians themselves can make the decision to forge a lasting peace together . The final , specific details of the Israeli-PalestinianPeace Agreement , must be worked out directly between the parties . <p> A main fault line in the Middle East today is between leaders who want to create economic opportunity and a better life for their peoples , and those who manipulate religion and ideology in order to foment conflict and excuse their failures . This Vision aims to be respectful of ideology , religious beliefs and historical claims , but is focused primarily on putting the interests and aspirations of the people first . <p> We have entered a new chapter in the Middle East 's history , in which courageous leaders understand that new and shared threats have created the need for greater regional cooperation . The Trump Administration has strongly encouraged this . <p> Arab countries in the region have been held hostage to this conflict and recognize that it represents an uncapped financial liability to them if it remains unresolved . Many Arab countries are ready to resolve the Arab-Israeli conflict and want to partner with Israel and focus on the serious issues facing the region . <h> LEGITIMATE ASPIRATIONS OF THE PARTIES <p> While the Palestinians have never had a state , they have a legitimate desire to rule themselves and chart their own destiny . Any workable peace agreement must address the Palestinians ' legitimate desire for self-determination . This Vision addresses these legitimate concerns through , among other things , the designation of territory for a futurePalestinian state , strengthening Palestinian institutions of self-government , providing Palestinians with the legal status and international standing of a state , ensuring solid security arrangements , and building an innovative network of roads , bridges and tunnels that enables freedom of movement for the Palestinians . <p> The State of Israel has a legitimate desire to be the nation-state of the Jewish people and for that status to be recognized throughout the world . <p> This Vision aims to achieve mutual recognition of the State of Israel as the nation state of the Jewish people , and the State of Palestine as the nation-state of the Palestinian people , in each case with equal civil rights for all citizens within each state . <p> This Vision aims to achieve the recognition by , and normalization with , those countries who do not currently recognize the State of Israel or have a relationship with the State of Israel . <p> This Vision aims to achieve the recognition by , and normalization with , those countries that do not currently recognize the State of Palestine or have a relationship with the Palestinians . <h> THE PRIMACY OF SECURITY <p> Even if a comprehensive peace agreement is achieved between the State of Israel , the State of Palestine and additional Arab states , the reality is that there will always exist those who desire to undermine security and stability . This Vision always keeps this reality in mind . <p> No government should be asked to compromise the safety and security of its citizens . This is especially true for the State of Israel , a country that since its establishment has faced , and continues to face , enemies that call for its annihilation . Israel has also had the bitter experience of withdrawing from territories that were then used to launch attacks against it . <p> The State of Israel suffers from extraordinary geographic and geostrategic challenges . Simply put , the State of Israel has no margin for error . As dangerous as Gaza , run by Hamas , is to the State of Israel 's safety , a similar regime controlling the West Bank would pose an existential threat to the State of Israel . <p> It is essential that a Palestinian state created under a peace deal be a state that has the tools to succeed and that it is peaceful and secure , rather than a platform for instability and conflict . <p> The United States can not ask any country , let alone the State of Israel , a close ally , to make compromises that would exacerbate an already precarious security situation . The United States would only ask Israel to make compromises that we believe will make the State of Israel and the people of Israel more secure in the short and long term . This Vision was designed in that spirit . All other countries should take the same approach . <p> The threat of terrorism has spread worldwide . Today , governments closely coordinate with one another to leverage their intelligence expertise to fight terrorism . It is important that governments unambiguously condemn all forms of terrorism , and that governments work together to fight against global terrorism . <p> Both Israelis and Palestinians ( as well as the surrounding region ) benefit greatly from enhanced security . The protection of Palestinians also protects Israelis , and similarly the protection of Israelis also protects Palestinians . <p> Counterterrorism cooperation between the State of Israel , the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan , the Arab Republic of Egypt and others in the region has enhanced the security of each of these states . This Vision is based upon the belief that cooperation between the State of Israel and the State of Palestine will also benefit both states . Existing coordination between the Israelis and Palestinians provides hope that this can be achieved . <p> This Vision has been developed in a manner that takes into account the security needs of , and future strategic threats to , Israelis , Palestinians and the region . <h> THE QUESTION OF TERRITORY , SELF-DETERMINATION AND SOVEREIGNTY <p> Any realistic peace proposal requires the State of Israel to make a significant territorial compromise that will enable the Palestinians to have a viable state , respect their dignity and address their legitimate national aspirations . <p> Withdrawing from territory captured in a defensive war is a historical rarity . It must be recognized that the State of Israel has already withdrawn from at least 88% of the territory it captured in 1967 . This Vision provides for the transfer of sizeable territory by the State of Israel -- territory to which Israel has asserted valid legal and historical claims , and which are part of the ancestral homeland of the Jewish people -- which must be considered a significant concession . <p> Peace should not demand the uprooting of people -- Arab or Jew -- from their homes . Such a construct , which is more likely to lead to civil unrest , runs counter to the idea of co-existence . <p> Transportation corridors included in this Vision create transportation contiguity that greatly reduces the need for checkpoints and greatly enhances the mobility and quality of life and commerce for the Palestinian people . <p> Self-determination is the hallmark of a nation . This Vision is intended to maximize self-determination , while taking all relevant factors into account . <p> Sovereignty is an amorphous concept that has evolved over time . With growing interdependence , each nation chooses to interact with other nations by entering into agreements that set parameters essential to each nation . The notion that sovereignty is a static and consistently defined term has been an unnecessary stumbling block in past negotiations . Pragmatic and operational concerns that effect security and prosperity are what is most important . <h> REFUGEES <p> The international community is struggling to find sufficient funds to address the needs of the over 70 million refugees and displaced persons in the world today . In 2020 alone , the United Nations has asked for over $8.5 billion in new funding to help the millions of Syrian refugees and others around the world . Most of those refugees were expelled or fled from their homes in the recent past and face dire circumstances . <p> The Arab-Israeli conflict created both a Palestinian and Jewishrefugee problem . <p> Palestinianrefugees , who have suffered over the past 70 years , have been treated as pawns on the broader Middle East chessboard , and empty promises have been made to them and to their host countries . A just , fair and realistic solution to the Palestinianrefugee issue is necessary to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . <p> A similar number of Jewishrefugees were expelled from Arab lands shortly after the creation of the State of Israel , and have also suffered . A just solution for these Jewishrefugees should be implemented through an appropriate international mechanism separate from the Israel-PalestinianPeace Agreement . <h> JERUSALEM <p> Jerusalem is holy to multiple faiths and has religious significance for much of humanity . <p> The issue of Jerusalem 's holy sites , particularly the Temple Mount/Haram al-Sharif should be treated with the utmost sensitivity . <p> The State of Israel has been a good custodian of Jerusalem . During Israel 's stewardship , it has kept Jerusalem open and secure . <p> Jerusalem should be a city that unites people and should always remain open to worshippers of all religions . <h> THE PROBLEM OF GAZA <p> Gaza has tremendous potential but is currently held hostage by Hamas , Palestinian Islamic Jihad ( PIJ ) and other terrorist organizations committed to Israel 's destruction . The terrorist organizations running Gaza have not improved the lives of the people living there . As these groups have gained power and increased their malign activity , the suffering of the people of Gaza has only increased . <p> Israel has tightened security over Gaza in order to prevent weapons , and materials that are used to make weapons , from entering . Any acceptable solution must allow goods to pass through so that the Gaza economy can thrive while making sure Israel 's legitimate security concerns are addressed . <p> The United States does not expect the State of Israel to negotiate with any Palestinian government that includes any members of Hamas , PIJ or surrogates thereof , unless that Palestinian government ( including its members from Hamas or PIJ ) unambiguously and explicitly commit to nonviolence , recognize the State of Israel , and fully satisfy the other Gaza Criteria , set forth in Section 9 . <p> Should negotiations between Israelis and Palestinians result in a peace agreement , the State of Israel will be expected to implement its obligations under the Israeli-PalestinianPeace Agreement only if the Palestinian Authority , or another body acceptable to Israel , has full control of Gaza , terror organizations in Gaza are disarmed , and Gaza is fully demilitarized . <p> For comprehensive peace to be achieved , it is up to the Palestinian people to make clear that they reject the ideologies of destruction , terror and conflict , and unite for a better future for all Palestinians . <h> INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE <p> Countries that have donated funds to the Palestinians over the course of the conflict all have other significant challenges and needs and want to ensure that aid to the Palestinians will be spent wisely and significantly reduced over time . This Vision has been developed to reduce over time the Palestinians ' dependence on aid from the international community . The goal of the Israeli-PalestinianPeace Agreement is a thriving Palestinian economy and a viable state . <h> SECTION THREE <p> The conflict has grown old , the arguments have become worn , and the parties have failed to achieve peace . At this point , only a comprehensive answer to the critical issues has the potential to galvanize the parties to end this seemingly intractable conflict . Both parties must make significant and difficult compromises to achieve greater gains . <p> The peace agreement that will hopefully be negotiated on the basis of this Vision should be implemented through legally binding contracts and agreements ( the " ISRAELI-PALESTINIANPEACE AGREEMENT " ) . <p> It is also the hope of the United States that Arab nations within the region that have yet to achieve peace with the State of Israel will immediately begin to normalize relations with Israel and eventually negotiate peace agreements with Israel . <p> Each appendix attached to this Vision is an integral part of this Vision . <h> SECTION FOUR <h> BORDERS <p> A conceptual map ( the " CONCEPTUAL MAP " ) is attached hereto based on the guiding principles set forward in this Vision . <p> The Conceptual Map has been designed to demonstrate the feasibility for a redrawing of boundaries in the spirit of UNSCR 242 , and in a manner that : <p> Meets the security requirements of the State of Israel ; <p> Delivers significant territorial expansion to the Palestinians ; <p> Takes into account the State of Israel 's valid legal and historical claims ; <p> Avoids forced population transfers of either Arab or Jews ; <p> Enhances mobility for both Israelis and Palestinians within their respective states ; <p> Provides pragmatic transportation solutions to address the needs of the Israeli and Palestinian enclaves that are described below ; <p> Enhances the commercial viability and economic independence of the State of Palestine , <p> Provides for a potentially significant expansion of Gaza to enhance its development and success ; and <p> Facilitates the integration of the State of Palestine into the regional and global economy . <p> The State of Israel and the United States do not believe the State of Israel is legally bound to provide the Palestinians with 100 percent of pre-1967 territory ( a belief that is consistent with United Nations Security Council Resolution 242 ) . This Vision is a fair compromise , and contemplates a Palestinian state that encompasses territory reasonably comparable in size to the territory of the West Bank and Gaza pre-1967 . <p> This Vision also contemplates a Palestinian state that maximizes ease of travel within the State of Palestine through state-of-the-art infrastructure solutions comprised of bridges , roads and tunnels , and provides significant benefits well beyond the borders of the State of Palestine . For example , the State of Palestine will benefit from a high-speed transportation link that will enable efficient movement between the West Bank and Gaza , crossing over or under the State of Israel 's sovereign territory . This crossing , which did n't exist before 1967 , will greatly enhance the value of the Israeli-PalestinianPeace Agreement for the Palestinians , and will be designed to be a part of a new regional infrastructure linking Palestinians and Israelis to the broader Middle East , as described below . <p> Moreover , until such time as the State of Palestine may develop its own port ( as described below ) , the State of Palestine will benefit from special access to certain designated facilities at the State of Israel 's Haifa and Ashdod ports , with an efficient means of exporting and importing goods into and out of the State of Palestine without compromising Israel 's security . <p> The State of Israel will benefit from having secure and recognized borders . It will not have to uproot any settlements , and will incorporate the vast majority of Israelisettlements into contiguous Israeli territory . Israeli enclaves located inside contiguous Palestinian territory will become part of the State of Israel and be connected to it through an effective transportation system . <p> The United States has designed the Conceptual Map to include the following features : <p> Approximately 97% of Israelis in the West Bank will be incorporated into contiguous Israeli territory , and approximately 97% of Palestinians in the West Bank will be incorporated into contiguous Palestinian territory . Land swaps will provide the State of Palestine with land reasonably comparable in size to the territory of pre-1967 West Bank and Gaza . <p> The Palestinian population located in enclaves that remain inside contiguous Israeli territory but that are part of the State of Palestine shall become citizens of the State of Palestine and shall have the option to remain in place unless they choose otherwise . They will have access routes connecting them to the State of Palestine . They will be subject to Palestinian civilian administration , including zoning and planning , within the interior of such Palestinian enclaves . They will not be discriminated against and will have appropriate security protection . Such enclaves and access routes will be subject to Israeli security responsibility . <p> The Israeli population located in enclaves that remain inside contiguous Palestinian territory but that are part of the State of Israel shall have the option to remain in place unless they choose otherwise , and maintain their existing Israeli citizenship . They will have access routes connecting them to the State of Israel . They will be subject to Israeli civilian administration , including zoning and planning , within the interior of such Israeli enclaves . They will not be discriminated against and will have appropriate security protection . Such enclaves and access routes will be subject toIsraeli security responsibility . <p> The Jordan Valley , which is critical for Israel 's national security , will be under Israeli sovereignty . Notwithstanding such sovereignty , Israel should work with the Palestinian government to negotiate an agreement in which existing agricultural enterprises owned or controlled by Palestinians shall continue without interruption or discrimination , pursuant to appropriate licenses or leases granted by the State of Israel . <p> For over a decade , Gaza has been ruled by Hamas , a terror organization , responsible for the murder and maiming of thousands of Israelis . Rather than dedicate themselves to improving the lives of the people of Gaza , Hamas , PIJ and other terror organizations have been dedicated to the destruction of Israel . At the same time , they have brutally repressed Palestinians and diverted hundreds of millions of dollars meant to improve Palestinian lives to fueling a war machine of thousands of rockets and missiles , dozens of terror tunnels and other lethal capabilities . As a result of Hamas ' terror and misrule , the people of Gaza suffer from massive unemployment , widespread poverty , drastic shortages of electricity and potable water , and other problems that threaten to precipitate a wholesale humanitarian crisis . This Vision is designed to give Palestinians in Gaza a prosperous future . It provides for the possibility of allocating for the PalestiniansIsraeli territory close to Gaza ( as depicted on the conceptual map ) within which infrastructure may be rapidly built to address Gaza 's pressing humanitarian needs , and which will eventually enable the building of thriving Palestinian cities and towns that will help the people of Gaza flourish . <p> Significant improvements for the people in Gaza will not occur until there is a ceasefire with Israel , the full demilitarization of Gaza , and a governance structure that allows the international community to safely and comfortably put new money into investments that will not be destroyed by predictable future conflicts . The State of Israel will retain sovereignty over territorial waters , which are vital to Israel 's security and which provides stability to the region . <p> Land swaps provided by the State of Israel could include both populated and unpopulated areas . <p> The Triangle Communities consist of Kafr Qara , Ar'ara , Baha al-Gharbiyye , Umm al Fahm , Qalansawe , Tayibe , Kafr Qasim , Tira , Kafr Bara and Jaljulia . These communities , which largely self-identify as Palestinian , were originally designated to fall under Jordanian control during the negotiations of the Armistice Line of 1949 , but ultimately were retained by Israel for military reasons that have since been mitigated . The Vision contemplates the possibility , subject to agreement of the parties that the borders of Israel will be redrawn such that the Triangle Communities become part of the State of Palestine . In this agreement , the civil rights of the residents of the triangle communities would be subject to the applicable laws and judicial rulings of the relevant authorities . <p> Beyond its borders , the State of Palestine will have high-speed transportation links ( such as the West Bank/Gaza connection ) , and until such time as the State of Palestine may develop its own port , access to two designated port facilities in the State of Israel . <p> Two access roads will be built for the benefit of the State of Palestine that will be subject to Israeli security requirements . These roads will enable Palestinians to cross the Jordan Valley to the border crossing with the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan , thereby facilitating Palestinian travel to and from the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and beyond , and subject to the immigration rules of the State of Palestine , allow Jordanians and others from the region to enter the State of Palestine . <p> First-rate infrastructure solutions ( including tunnels and overpasses ) will be built to maximize unimpeded movement throughout both states and in between states and their respective enclaves . <p> The security barrier will be realigned to match the new borders . New , modern and efficient border crossings will be constructed . <p> The drawing of borders pursuant to the Conceptual Map shall be without prejudice to individual claims of title or rights of possession traditionally litigated within the Israeli judicial system . <p> Freedom of access to all religious sites of all faiths in both states should be agreed to and respected by the parties . The State of Israel and the State of Palestine should enter into an access agreement to ensure freedom of access to and prayer rights at all religious sites within the State of Palestine and the State of Israel . A list of such holy sites should be compiled during negotiations between the parties . <p> This Vision contemplates the establishment of an international fund ( the " INTERNATIONAL FUND " ) for the development of the land swap areas designated for the State of Palestine , as well as all infrastructure improvements and all security measures contemplated by the Israeli-PalestinianPeace Agreement , including port facilities , roads , bridges , tunnels , fences , overpasses , rail links , border crossings and the like . The cost of these improvements and measures is not expected to be absorbed by the State of Israel or the State of Palestine . <h> SECTION FIVE <h> JERUSALEM <p> The United States recognizes the heightened sensitivity surrounding Jerusalem , a city that means so much to so many . Jerusalem is a city unique in the history of civilization . No other place on earth can claim significance to three major religions . Each day , Jews pray at the Western Wall , Muslims bow in prayer at the al-Aqsa Mosque and Christians worship at the Church of the Holy Sepulchre . <p> Throughout history , Jerusalem has been subject to war and conquest . It has been used to divide people and to instigate conflict by those with evil intentions . But it does not have to be this way . <p> Jerusalem must remain a city that brings people of all faiths together to visit , to worship , to respect each other and to appreciate the majesty of history and the glory of God 's creation . <p> The approach of this Vision is to keep Jerusalem united , make it accessible to all and to acknowledge its holiness to all in a manner that is respectful to all . <h> RELIGIOUS ASPECTS OF THE JERUSALEM ISSUE <p> We understand that theological interpretations differ within each religion . The descriptions below of Judaism , Christianity , and Islam are not intended to be definitive theological interpretations . It is nevertheless clear that each of these three great faiths has its own connection to Jerusalem . <p> For Judaism , Jerusalem is where Mount Moriah is located . According to Jewish tradition , it was there that Abraham nearly sacrificed his son , Isaac , until God intervened . Centuries later , Jerusalem became the political center of the Jewish people when King David united the twelve tribes of Israel , making the city the capital and spiritual center of the Jewish people , which it has remained for nearly 3,000 years . King David 's son , King Solomon , built the First Temple on Mount Moriah . According to Jewish tradition , inside the Temple , within the Holy of Holies , were stored the original Ten Commandments , revealed by God to Moses at Mount Sinai . The First Temple was destroyed by the Babylonians in 586 B.C. The Second Temple was built atop the same mountain and stood until it was destroyed by the Romans in 70 A.D. However , Jerusalem never lost its holiness to the Jewish People : It remains the direction to which Jews throughout the world turn in prayer and the destination of Jewish pilgrimage . Every year , on the 9th day of the Jewish month of Av , Jews fast , mourn and commemorate the destruction of the two Temples . Although Jews pray today at the Western Wall , which was a retaining wall of the Second Temple , the Temple Mount itself is the holiest site in Judaism . There are nearly 700 separate references to Jerusalem in the Hebrew Bible . For 100 generations the hopes and dreams of the Jewish people have been encapsulated by the words " Next Year in Jerusalem . " <p> For Christianity , Jerusalem is where Jesus of Nazareth preached , was tried , crucified , resurrected , and ascended to Heaven . Immediately after the recognition of Christianity as the official religion of the Roman Empire by Constantine in the early 4th century , religious institutions were established at important sites such as the Church of the Holy Sepulchre and the Mount of Olives . After the Islamic conquest of Jerusalem in 637 , Christians longed to recover the holy city , which they finally achieved in 1099 , although it was lost to them again in 1187 . During the medieval period , Jerusalem remained the premier Christian pilgrimage site , and a steady stream of visitors followed the footsteps of Jesus through Jerusalem , despite the dangers and challenges inherent in such travel . Under the Ottoman Empire , Christians were granted legal rights to their holy sites by successive firmans in the 18th and 19th centuries , establishing the Christian " Status Quo , " which was re-affirmed in the 1993 Vatican-Israel Fundamental Agreement . Today , Jerusalem is home to more than a dozen Christian sects and a thriving Christian population . <p> For Islam , Jerusalem acquires prominence as stated in the Holy Koran : " Glory to Him who made His Servant go by night from the Sacred Mosque ( al-Masjid al-Haram ) to the Farthest Mosque ( al-Masjid al-Aqsa ) whose surroundings We have blessed , that We might show him some of Our signs . " According to Islamic tradtion , the verse refers to the Prophet Muhammad 's nocturnal journey from Mecca to Jerusalem ( al-Isra ' ) ; he arrives at the area of the Temple Mount/Haram al-Sharif , where he ascends to Heaven ( al-Mi'raj ) , to meet the earlier prophets and receive the commandement of prayer , In early Islam , when Muhammad had taken his followers from Mecca to Medina , he established Jerusalem as the direction of Islamic prayer ( the first Qiblah ) before later changing the direction of prayer to Mecca . There have been Muslim rulers who also emphasized the religious importance of Jerusalem . The Ummayad Caliphate , based in Damascus , offered Jerusalem as an alternative place of pilgrimage when Mecca was controlled by a rival caliphate . The victory of Saladin over the Crusaders in 1187 led to a revival of Islamic interest in Jerusalem , and in 1517 , Sultan Suleiman the Magnificent rebuilt its walls and religious sites . Today , it is widely considered the third holiest site in Islam . <h> JERUSALEM 'S HOLY SITES <p> After the Six Day War in 1967 , when the State of Israel took control over all of Jerusalem , the State of Israel assumed responsibility for protecting all of the city 's holy sites . Those holy sites include , without limitation , the Temple Mount/Haram al-Sharif , the Western Wall , the Muslim Holy Shrines , Church of St. Anne , Via Dolorosa ( Stations of the Cross ) , Church of the Holy Sepulchre , Church of Viri Galilaei , Church of St. Stephen , Dormition Abbey , Tomb of the Virgin Mary , Room of the Last Supper , Augusta Victoria Church of Ascension , Garden of Gethsemane , Church of Mary Magdalene , Dominus Flevit Church , Pater Noster Church , Church of St. Peter in Gallicantu , Church of the Ascension , The Russian Church , Secours Catholique ' House of Abraham , ' Mount Scopus , Hurva Synagogue , Tomb of Absalom , Tomb of Zechariah , Second Temple Pilgrimage Road , Tomb of the Prophets Haggai , Zechariah and Malachi , Gihon Spring , City of David , Mount of Olives , Sambuski Jewish Cemetery , and the Pool of Siloam . <p> Unlike many previous powers that had ruled Jerusalem , and had destroyed the holy sites of other faiths , the State of Israel is to be commended for safeguarding the religious sites of all and maintaining a religious status quo . <p> Given this commendable record for more than half a century , as well as the extreme sensitivity regarding some ofJerusalem 's holy sites , we believe that this practice should remain , and that all of Jerusalem 's holy sites should be subject to the same governance regimes that exist today . In particular the status quo at the Temple Mount/Haram al-Sharif should continue uninterrupted . <p> Jerusalem 's holy sites should remain open and available for peaceful worshippers and tourists of all faiths . People of every faith should be permitted to pray on the Temple Mount/Haram al-Sharif , in a manner that is fully respectful to their religion , taking into account the times of each religion 's prayers and holidays , as well as other religious factors . <h> POLITICAL STATUS OF JERUSALEM <p> One of the most complicated issues in achieving peace is resolving the question of the political status of Jerusalem . Prior to 1967 , a divided Jerusalem was a source of great tension in the region , with Jordanian and Israeli forces separated by barbed wire and Israeli residents of Jerusalem endangered by sniper fire . <p> A division of Jerusalem would be inconsistent with the policy statements of the Jerusalem Embassy Act of 1995 of the United States . All former presidents who have been involved in the peace process have agreed that Jerusalem should not be physically divided again . <p> On December 6 , 2017 , on behalf of the United States of America , President Trump recognized Jerusalem as Israel 's capital . The President also made clear that the specific boundaries of Israeli sovereignty in Jerusalem would be subject to final status negotiations between the parties . <p> We believe that returning to a divided Jerusalem , and in particular having two separate security forces in one of the most sensitive areas on earth , would be a grave mistake . <p> While a physical division of the city must be avoided , a security barrier currently exists that does not follow the municipal boundary and that already separates Arab neighborhoods ( i.e. , Kafr Aqab , and the eastern part of Shuafat ) in Jerusalem from the rest of the neighborhoods in the city . <p> This physical barrier should remain in place and should serve as a border between the capitals of the two parties . <p> Jerusalem will remain the sovereign capital of the State of Israel , and it should remain an undivided city . The sovereign capital of the State of Palestine should be in the section of East Jerusalem located in all areas east and north of the existing security barrier , including Kafr Aqab , the eastern part of Shuafat and Abu Dis , and could be named Al Quds or another name as determined by the State of Palestine . <p> This Vision would allow the Arab residents of Israel 's capital , Jerusalem , beyond the 1949 armistice lines but inside the existing security barrier to choose one of three options : <p> Become citizens of the State of Israel <p> Become citizens of the State of Palestine <p> Retain their status as permanent residents in Israel . <p> Over the years , some Arab residents of these areas ( approximately 6% ) have chosen to become Israeli citizens , and that option should remain available to Arab residents of these areas in the future . <p> Other Arab residents of these areas may want to embrace a Palestinian political identity by choosing to become citizens of the State of Palestine , and that option should be available to them as well . <p> Many of the Arab residents of these areas may want to maintain a political identity that is separate from either Israel or Palestine , and which allows them to take pride in their unique identity and history . That option should remain available to them . <h> PRIVLEDGES , BENEFITS AND OBLIGATIONS <p> The privileges , benefits and obligations of Arab residents of these areas who choose to keep their status as permanent residents of Israel should remain the same . <p> The privileges , benefits and obligations of Arab residents of these areas who choose to become citizens of Palestine will be determined by the laws of the State of Palestine and the State of Israel , as applicable . <p> The residents of these areas who choose to become citizens of the State of Israel will have all the privileges , benefits and obligations of being citizens of the State of Israel . Residents of these areas , who today are citizens of Israel , will maintain the same privileges , benefits and obligations that they have today . <h> SPECIAL TOURIST AREA <p> The State of Israel should allow for the development by the State of Palestine of a special tourism zone in Atarot , in a specific area to be agreed upon by the parties . We envision that this area should be a world class tourist zone that should support Muslim tourism to Jerusalem and its holy sites . We envision that this zone will become a thriving and vibrant tourism center that includes state-of-the-art public transportation that provides easy access to and from the holy sites . <p> To support this new development , the economic development program will identify financing for the construction of restaurants , shops , hotels , cultural centers , and other tourism facilities within this zone . Fast-track accessibility to the Muslim Holy Shrines should be developed and maintained . The specific details of this area , including , without limitation , taxation , and zoning should be negotiated between the parties . <h> TOURISM MATTERS RELATING TO THE OLD CITY OF JERUSALEM <p> Without derogating the State of Israel 's sovereignty , during the negotiation of the Israeli-PalestinianPeace Agreement , and subject to the State of Israel 's security requirements , the parties shall : <p> Negotiate a mechanism by which licenses shall be provided to Palestinian tour guides to operate tours in the Old City of Jerusalem as well as at sites sacred to Christianity and Islam in other areas of Jerusalem ; <p> Establish a Jerusalem-Al Quds Joint Tourism Development Authority ( the " JTDA " ) . The JTDA will work to promote Jewish , Muslim and Christian tourism in both the State of Israel and the State of Palestine . Israel will establish a mechanism whereby part of the tax revenues from the increased tourism in the Old City of Jerusalem will be allocated to the JTDA for further reinvestment for tourism in the Old City of Jerusalem . The JTDA will also work with the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan to promote regional tourism . <h> RECOGNITION OF CAPITALS <p> Jerusalem should be internationally recognized as the capital of the State of Israel . Al Quds ( or another name selected by the State of Palestine ) should be internationally recognized as the capital of the State of Palestine . <p> Neither party shall encourage or support efforts by other countries or persons to deny the legitimacy of the other party 's capital or its sovereignty . The mayors for each capital city will establish mechanisms for regular consultation and voluntary cooperation on matters of significance to the two capitals . <p> The embassy of the United States to the State of Israel will remain in Jerusalem . Following the signing of the Israeli-PalestinianPeace Agreement , the embassy of the United States to the State of Palestine will be in Al Quds at a location to be chosen by the United States , in agreement with the State of Palestine . The United States will recognize the State of Israel and the State of Palestine in their respective capitals and encourage other nations to relocate their embassies to Jerusalem and Al Quds , as applicable . <h> SECTION SIX <h> THE TRUMP ECONOMIC PLAN <p> At the invitation of the Kingdom of Bahrain , this past June in Manama , the United States presented the administration 's Middle East Peace Economic Plan titled Peace to Prosperity : A New Vision for the Palestinian People . <p> The United States recognizes that the successful signing and implementation of the Israeli-PalestinianPeace Agreement will have a significant impact on the economic prospects of the region . In Bahrain , the international community stressed its commitment to the economic plan and its necessity , as well as its viability following the signing of a peace agreement . <p> The economic plan will empower the Palestinian people to build a prosperous and vibrant Palestinian society . It consists of three initiatives that will support distinct pillars of the Palestinian society : the economy , the people , and the government . With the potential to facilitate more than $50 billion in new investment over ten years , Peace to Prosperity represents the most ambitious and comprehensive international effort for the Palestinian people to date . It has the ability to fundamentally transform the West Bank and Gaza and to open a new chapter in Palestinian history , one defined , not by adversity and loss , but by opportunity and dignity . <p> The first initiative will unleash the economic potential of the Palestinian people . By developing property and contract rights , the rule of law , anti-corruption measures , capital markets , a pro-growth tax structure , and a low-tariff scheme with reduced trade barriers , this initiative envisions policy reforms coupled with strategic infrastructure investments that will improve the business environment and stimulate private-sector growth . Hospitals , schools , homes , and businesses will secure reliable access to affordable electricity , clean water , and digital services . Billions of dollars of new investment will flow into various sectors of the Palestinian economy . Businesses will have increased access to capital , and the markets of the West Bank and Gaza will be connected with key trading partners , including Egypt , Israel , Jordan , and Lebanon . The resulting economic growth has the potential to end the current unemployment crisis and transform the West Bank and Gaza into a center of opportunity . <p> The second initiative will empower the Palestinian people to realize their ambitions . Through new data-driven , outcomes-based education options at home , expanded online education platforms , increased vocational and technical training , and the prospect of international exchanges , this initiative will enhance and expand a variety of programs that directly improve the well-being of the Palestinian people . It will strengthen the Palestinian educational system and ensure that students can fulfill their academic goals and be prepared for the workforce . <p> Equally important , access to quality healthcare will be dramatically improved , as Palestinian hospitals and clinics will be outfitted with the latest healthcare technology and equipment . In addition , new opportunities for cultural and recreational activities will improve the quality of life of the Palestinian people . From parks and cultural institutions to athletic facilities and libraries , this initiative 's projects will enrich public life throughout the West Bank and Gaza . <p> The third initiative will enhance Palestinian governance , improving the public sector 's ability to serve its citizens and enable private-sector growth . This initiative will support the public sector in undertaking the improvements and reforms necessary to achieve long-term economic success . A commitment to upholding property rights , improving the legal and regulatory framework for businesses , adopting a growth-oriented , enforceable tax structure , and developing robust capital markets will increase exports and foreign direct investment . A fair and independent judicial branch will ensure this pro-growth environment is protected and that civil society flourishes . New systems and policies will help bolster government transparency and accountability . International partners will work to eliminate the Palestinian public sector 's donor dependency and put the Palestinians on a trajectory to achieve long-term fiscal sustainability . Institutions will be modernized and made more efficient to facilitate the most effective delivery of essential services for the citizens . With the support of the Palestinian leadership , this initiative can usher in a new era of prosperity and opportunity for the Palestinian people and institutionalize the policies required for successful economic transformation . <p> These three initiatives are more than just a vision of a promising future for the Palestinian people . They are also the foundation for an implementable plan . Capital raised through this international effort will be placed into a new fund administered by an established multilateral development bank . Accountability , transparency , anti-corruption , and conditionality safeguards will protect investments and ensure that capital is allocated efficiently and effectively . The fund 's leadership will work with beneficiaries to outline annual investment guidelines , development goals , and governance reforms that will support project implementation in the areas identified within Peace to Prosperity . Grants , concessional loans , and other support will be distributed to projects that meet the defined criteria through a streamlined process that will enable both flexibility and accountability . <p> In addition to the requirement that the State of Palestine comply in all respects with the **33;2324;TOOLONG , Peace to Prosperity will be conditioned upon ( i ) the establishment by the State of Palestine of transparent , independent , and credit-worthy financial institutions capable of engaging in international market transactions in the same manner as financial institutions of western democracies , ( ii ) the establishment of appropriate governance to ensure the proper use of funds , and ( iii ) the establishment of a legal system that protects investments and addresses commercial expectations . <p> The United States will work with the Palestinian Authority to identify economic projects for Al Quds and incorporate such projects into Peace to Prosperity . <p> The economic plan will empower the Palestinian people to build the society that they have aspired to establish for generations . It will allow Palestinians to realize a better future and pursue their dreams . We are confident that the international community will support this plan . Ultimately , however , the power to implement it lies in the hands of the Palestinian people . <h> SECTION SEVEN <h> SECURITY <p> This Vision is designed to enable Israelis and Palestinians to live in peace and to reduce the risk of terrorism . <p> It is unrealistic to ask the State of Israel to make security compromises that could endanger the lives of its citizens . Appendix 2A provides a broad outline of some the acute security challenges facing the State of Israel . The goal of this Vision is to enable the parties to meet those security challenges and to enable the State of Palestine to assume as much of its security responsibilities as possible , as quickly as possible , throughout the State of Palestine . <p> This Vision contemplates facilitating close security coordination between the State of Israel and the State of Palestine , together with the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and the Arab Republic of Egypt . This section sets forth the best path to realistically achieve this goal . If the proper level of security coordination can not be achieved , then the security of the State of Israel is nevertheless protected under this Vision . <p> Every country spends a very significant sum of money on its defense from external threats . The State of Palestine will not be burdened with such costs , because it will be shouldered by the State of Israel . This is a significant benefit for the economy of the State of Palestine since funds that would otherwise be spent on defense can instead be directed towards healthcare , education , infrastructure and other matters to improve Palestinians ' well-being . <p> Upon signing the Israeli-PalestinianPeace Agreement , the State of Israel will maintain overriding security responsibility for the State of Palestine , with the aspiration that the Palestinians will be responsible for as much of their internal security as possible , subject to the provisions of this Vision . The State of Israel will work diligently to minimize its security footprint in the State of Palestine according to the principle that the more the State of Palestine does , the less the State of Israel will have to do . The State of Israel and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan will discuss to what extent , if any , the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan can assist the State of Israel and the State of Palestine in connection with security in the State of Palestine . <p> The criteria for Palestinian security performance ( the " SECURITY CRITERIA " ) are generally outlined in Appendix 2B . <p> As the State of Palestine meets and maintains the Security Criteria , the State of Israel 's involvement in security within the State of Palestine will be reduced . Both the Israelis and Palestinians have a common interest in maximizing Palestinian capability as quickly as possible . The United States and Israel will continue their work to strengthen the capabilities of the PASF . <p> The State of Israel will work to increase joint-cooperation with the PASF to help build its terrorism prevention capabilities . Achieving that goal in a manner that enhances the security of both countries will necessitate the following : <p> The State of Palestine shall be fully demilitarized and remain so , as outlined in Appendix 2C . <p> The State of Palestine will have security forces capable of maintaining internal security and preventing terror attacks within the State of Palestine and against the State of Israel , the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and the Arab Republic of Egypt . The mission of the State of Palestine 's security forces will be public order , law enforcement , counterterrorism ( working with the State of Israel , the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and the Arab Republic of Egypt as described below ) , border security ( working with the State of Israel , the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and the Arab Republic of Egypt , as applicable , and as described below ) , protection of government officials and foreign dignitaries , and disaster response . These specific capabilities ( i ) may not ( A ) violate the principle that the State ofPalestine in all its territory , including Gaza , shall be , and shall remain , fully demilitarized or ( B ) derogate the State of Israel 's overriding security responsibility , and ( ii ) will be agreed upon by the State of Palestine and the State of Israel . <p> This security protocol is intended to continue unless and until there is a different agreement by both the State ofIsrael and the State of Palestine . <p> Over many years , the United States has supported the Palestinian Authority 's efforts to counter terrorism . This partnership has established a foundation of trust that this Vision hopes to build upon . This Vision is based on the belief and expectation that the State of Palestine will continue such efforts and work towards enhancing such efforts . Once the State of Israeldetermines that the State of Palestine has demonstrated both a clear intention and a sustained capacity to fight terrorism , a pilot program will be initiated in an area of the West Bank portion of the State of Palestine , designated by the State of Israel , to determine if the State of Palestine is able to meet the Security Criteria . If the State of Palestine succeeds in maintaining the Security Criteria in the designated pilot area , then the pilot program will be expanded to other areas within the State of Palestine as well . <p> The United States will help support the State of Palestine to meet and maintain the Security Criteria . During the negotiations , the parties , in consultation with the United States , shall attempt to create acceptable initial non-binding metrics with respect to the initial pilot area which shall be acceptable to the State of Israel , and in no event less than the metrics used by either the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan or the Arab Republic of Egypt ( whichever is stricter ) with respect to the Security Criteria . Because security threats evolve , the metrics are intended to be used as a guide , and will not be binding . However , the establishment of such non-binding metrics takes into account regional minimum benchmarks and allows the State of Palestine to better understand the minimum goals it is expected to achieve . <p> Should the State of Palestine fail to meet all or any of the Security Criteria at any time , the State of Israel will have the right to reverse the process outlined above . The State of Israel 's security footprint in all or parts of the State of Palestine will then increase as a result of the State of Israel 's determination of its expanded security needs and the time needed to address them . <p> Under the new reality of peace , the parties will enhance their bilateral security coordination in order to maintain peace , stability and a smooth implementation of the Israeli-PalestinianPeace Agreement . <p> As a complementary measure to the bilateral security coordination , a security review committee ( the " REVIEW COMMITTEE " ) will be established that will consist of security representatives appointed by the State of Israel , the State of Palestine and the United States . The United States representative will be agreed to by the State of Israel and the State of Palestine . The Review Committee , which shall meet every 6 months , will serve as a forum to support the buildup and maintenance of the security capabilities of the State of Palestine toward meeting and maintaining the Security Criteria ( see Appendix 2B ) , to review policy matters related to progress in implementing and maintaining the Security Criteria , and to facilitate necessary infrastructure changes and related investments ( by the International Fund ) on the ground . <p> The State of Israel , the State of Palestine , the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and the Arab Republic of Egypt share a common interest in preventing all forms of militant , extremist , terrorist or criminal activity from gaining a base of operations or in any way from destabilizing the State of Palestine or its neighbors . A secure , demilitarized and peaceful State of Palestine will contribute to the security needs of both parties and to regional security , as well as to economic prosperity . In furtherance of their internal security and to advance their common interests , the State of Palestine , the State of Israel , the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and the Arab Republic of Egypt will engage in comprehensive and enduring state-to-state cooperation . The United States recommends the establishment of a regional security committee ( " RSC " ) . The RSC 's task would be to review regional counterterrorism policies and coordination . Ideally , the RSC would include security representatives from the United States , the State of Israel , the State of Palestine , the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan , the Arab Republic of Egypt , the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia , and the United Arab Emirates . <p> The State of Israel will maintain at least one early-warning stations in the State of Palestine as designated on the Conceptual Map , which will be run by Israeli security forces . Uninterrupted Israeli security access to and from any early-warning station will be ensured . <p> To the extent reasonably possible , solely as determined by the State of Israel , the State of Israel will rely on blimps , drones and similar aerial equipment for security purposes in order to reduce the Israeli security footprint within the State ofPalestine . <p> Although each party will be in charge of setting zoning rules and issuing building permits in their own countries , zoning and planning of the State of Palestine in the areas adjacent to the border between the State of Israel and the State of Palestine , including without limitation , the border between Jerusalem and Al Quds , will be subject to the State of Israel 's overriding security responsibility . <p> The security plan outlined in this section results in billions of dollars in savings for international donors in lieu of creating a new multi-national security force composed of forces from the United States and/or other countries . <p> The parties will work together , in good faith , on security matters , to protect Israelis and Palestinians alike . <h> SECTION EIGHT <h> CROSSINGS <p> The threat of terrorism has reduced trust and slowed the movement of goods and people throughout the region . The goal of this vision is to have a rapid flow of goods and people through the borders in a dignified , extremely efficient system of crossings that does not compromise security . <p> The State of Israel will work closely with the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan , the Arab Republic of Egypt and the State of Palestine to continue to improve the system for all border crossings . The system of border crossings will be implemented in a manner that keeps the visibility of the State of Israel 's security role to a minimum . As permitted by law , security personnel at these crossings shall wear civilian uniforms with no state designation . <p> A board of overseers ( the " CROSSINGS BOARD " ) comprised of three Israelis , three Palestinians and a United States representative shall meet quarterly to address concerns regarding the crossings . The United States representative will be agreed to by both the State of Palestine and the State of Israel . The purpose of the Crossings Board is not to interfere with the security measures at the crossings but rather to constructively find ways to improve the flow and treatment of people using the crossings . During the negotiations , the parties will develop a protocol pursuant to which people who have grievances with their treatment at the crossings that are not resolved between the parties will be addressed by the Crossings Board . The Crossings Board will develop goals and metrics by which to measure whether they are achieving its goals . Every year , the Crossings Board will provide , directly to the governments of each of the State of Palestine , the State of Israel the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan , and the Arab Republic of Egypt , a report on performance and non-binding recommendations for improvements , along with goals for the following year . <p> All persons and goods will cross the borders into the State of Palestine through regulated border crossings , which will be monitored by the State of Israel . Israeli border crossing officials , using state of the art scanning and imaging technology , shall have the right to confirm that no weapons , dual-use or other security-risk related items will be allowed to enter into the State of Palestine . If an item is denied entry , the item will also be prohibited to be exported from the State of Israel into the State of Palestine in order to avoid creating a competitive advantage to Israeli businesses . To the extent any dispute related to whether or not a denial creates a competitive advantage , such dispute shall be referred to the Crossings Board . The State of Palestine will have the authority to set its own independent trade policy in order to deny import into the State of Palestine of any item for economic or legal purposes . <p> To combat terrorism while allowing maximum economic pursuit in the State of Palestine , all efforts will be made to mitigate the cost of production if a raw material or subcomponent of an end item is deemed dangerous and its import into the State of Palestine needs to be controlled . Rather than banning a dual use item , every effort should be made to develop transportation , storage and end-use monitoring measures to prevent the diversion of dangerous components to illicit use . Only security-vetted individuals and companies will be allowed to transport , store and utilize dual-use items and appropriate measures will be used to ensure that the dual-use raw materials or subcomponents are not used to produce weapons . <p> With respect to the processing of people at all crossings , during the negotiations , the parties , in consultation with the United States , shall attempt to create initial non-binding metrics acceptable to them and in no event less than the metrics used by either the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan or the Arab Republic of Egypt ( whichever is stricter ) . Because security threats evolve , the metrics are intended to be used as a guide , and will not be binding . However , the establishment of such non-binding metrics will allow the parties to achieve a workable , efficient and secure processing of people at all crossings , and take into account regional minimum benchmarks . Nothing in this section shall undermine the principles set forth in Appendix 2C . <h> SECTION NINE <h> GAZA CRITERIA <p> The people of Gaza have suffered for too long under the repressive rule of Hamas . They have been exploited as hostages and human shields , and bullied into submission . Hamas has failed the people of Gaza and has diverted money belonging to the Palestinians of Gaza , including funds provided by international donors , to attack the State of Israel , instead of using these funds to improve the lives of the people of Gaza . <p> Israel 's withdrawal from Gaza nearly 15 years ago was meant to advance peace . Instead , Hamas , an internationally recognized terrorist group , gained control over the territory , and increased attacks on Israel , including the launching of thousands of rockets . Under the leadership of Hamas , the residents of Gaza have suffered extreme poverty and deprivation . After years of no progress the the donor community is fatigued and reluctant to make additional investments so long as the governance structure in Gaza is run by terrorists who provoke confrontations that lead to more destruction and suffering for the people of Gaza . This cycle can be broken if the international community unites to pursue a new course . <p> The State of Israel will implement its obligations under the Israeli-PalestinianPeace Agreement only if : <h> ( A ) <p> the Palestinian Authority or another national or international body acceptable to the State of Israel is in full control of Gaza , in a manner consistent with paragraph ( B ) ( 2 ) below ; <p> Hamas , PIJ , and all other militias and terror organizations in Gaza are disarmed ; and <p> Gaza is fully demilitarized . <p> During the negotiations , the parties will agree to a time frame for the compliance with items ( A ) ( 1 ) through ( 3 ) above . <h> ( B ) <p> if efforts to return all Israeli captives and the remains of Israeli soldiers have not have previously been successful , then upon the signing of the Israeli-PalestinianPeace Agreement , all Israeli captives and remains must be returned . <p> If Hamas is to play any role in a Palestinian government , it must commit to the path of peace with the State of Israel by adopting the Quartet principles , which include unambiguously and explicitly recognizing the State of Israel , committing to nonviolence , and accepting previous agreements and obligations between the parties , including the disarming of all terrorist groups . The United States expects that the State of Palestine 's government will not include any members of Hamas , PIJ , or surrogates thereof , unless all of the foregoing shall have occurred . <p> The international community should be willing to provide compensation in the form of major investment for a complete and verifiable demilitarization of Gaza . <p> Once these criteria are met , the economic vision will be ready to be implemented in a phased approach whereby tranches of investment and state building aid will be released as milestones are achieved . <p> All of the criteria set forth in this section entitled " Gaza Criteria " are referred to in this Vision as the " GAZA CRITERIA . " <h> SECTION TEN <h> FREE TRADE ZONE <p> Subject to the agreement of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan , a free-trade zone between the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and the State of Palestine will be established to expedite economic cooperation between the two countries . <p> The location and size of the free-trade zone will be agreed upon by the parties so that the free trade zone will not interfere with current land use in the area and necessary security requirements . Goods from the free-trade zone will be exported using an airport located in the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan . <h> SECTION ELEVEN <h> TRADE AGREEMENT WITH THE UNITED STATES <p> The United States will continue to provide duty-free treatment to goods coming from all areas that enjoy such treatment today , and will negotiate a free trade agreement with the State of Palestine . The United States hopes that countries in Europe , the Middle East and elsewhere will also pursue free trade agreements with the State of Palestine . <h> SECTION TWELVE <h> PORT FACILITIES <p> Transportation is critical for economic development , regional integration and integration into the world economic market . Currently , the cost of goods born by the Palestinian people is particularly high due to transportation challenges . The lack of ports has raised the costs of Palestinian economic activity . Though the State of Palestine will include Gaza , security challenges make the building of a port in Gaza problematic for the foreseeable future . This Vision hopes to enhancePalestinian economic activity , protect Israeli security and provide a path for the State of Palestine to have its own port in Gaza in the future . <h> ISRAEL <p> The State of Israel will allow the State of Palestine to use and manage earmarked facilities at both the Haifa and Ashdod ports , without prejudice to the State of Israel 's undisputed sovereignty at both of these locations . The purpose of these earmarked port facilities will be for the State of Palestine to benefit economically from access to the Mediterranean Sea , without compromising the State of Israel 's security . <p> The role of the State of Israel at these earmarked port facilities will be limited to security functions that will ensure that all goods transported into and out of these earmarked port facilities do not pose a threat to the State of Israel . The security arrangements at these earmarked port facilities will be similar to those of other international border crossings managed by the State of Israel . <p> These earmarked port facilities will be used only by cargo ships . The State of Israel will help the State of Palestine establish a fast-track transportation system that will allow the State of Palestine to transport all cargo from the earmarked port facilities to the State of Palestine , subject to the State of Israel 's security considerations . <p> The State of Palestine will be responsible for charging and collecting all taxes associated with goods entering these earmarked port facilities . All taxes collected for goods to be transported into the State of Palestine will belong to the State of Palestine . <p> The State of Israel and the State of Palestine will cooperate in an equitable manner with one another with respect to the traffic into and out of the ports . The parties will also assist one another in connection with joint civilian operations when needed in case of emergencies ( e.g. , fire , floods , etc . ) . <p> The earmarked port facilities and all ships using the earmarked port facilities shall be subject to applicable Israeli laws , including but not limited to , environmental and labor laws , and shall not be in violation of any applicable tariff agreements . <p> The earmarked port facilities will utilize the existing Israeli harbor , as well as existing Israeli support facilities for refueling and repairing vessels . The State of Israel and the State of Palestine shall enter into an agreement pursuant to which the State of Palestine will be able to utilize these facilities in an equitable manner . The State of Palestine will pay its equitable share of costs to maintain and repair all the shared facilities . However , there will be no rental fees payable by the State ofPalestine to the State of Israel for use of , or relating to , these earmarked port facilities . <h> JORDAN <p> Subject to the consent of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan , the State of Palestine may use and manage an earmarked facility at the port of Aqaba , without prejudice to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan 's undisputed sovereignty at the port of Aqaba . The purpose of the earmarked port facility will be for the State of Palestine to benefit economically from access to the Red Sea , without compromising the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan 's security . <p> The role of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan at the earmarked port facility will be limited to security functions that will ensure that all goods transported into and out of the earmarked port facility do not pose a threat to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan . The security arrangements at the earmarked port facility will be similar to those of other international border crossings managed by the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan . <p> The earmarked port facility will be used only by cargo ships . The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan will help the State ofPalestine establish a fast-track transportation system that will allow the State of Palestine to transport all cargo from the earmarked port facility to the State of Palestine , subject to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan 's security considerations . <p> The State of Palestine will be responsible for charging and collecting all taxes associated with goods entering the earmarked port facility . All taxes collected for goods to be transported into the State of Palestine will belong to the State of Palestine . The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and the State of Palestine will cooperate in an equitable manner with one another with respect to the traffic into and out of the port . The parties will also assist one another in connection with joint civilian operations when needed in case of emergencies ( fire , floods , etc . ) . <p> The earmarked port facility and all ships using the earmarked port facility shall be subject to applicable Jordanian laws , including but not limited to , environmental and labor laws , and shall not be in violation of any applicable tariff agreements . The earmarked port facility will utilize the existing Jordanian harbor , as well as existing Jordanian support facilities for refueling and repairing vessels . The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and the State of Palestine shall enter into an agreement pursuant to which the State of Palestine will be able to utilize these facilities in an equitable manner . The State of Palestine will pay its equitable share of costs to maintain and repair all the shared facilities . The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan shall be entitled to charge an appropriate rental fee , payable by the State of Palestine to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan for use of , and relating to , the earmarked port facility . <h> POTENTIAL GAZA PORT AND POTENTIAL AIRPORT FOR GAZA <p> Five years following the signing of the Israeli-PalestinianPeace Agreement and assuming the full satisfaction of the Gaza Criteria , the State of Palestine shall have the right , subject to the satisfaction of State of Israel 's security and environmental requirements , to create an artificial island off the coast of Gaza to develop a port to serve Gaza ( the " GAZA PORT " ) , as well as an airport for small aircraft . The specifics of this ( or alternative locations for the Gaza port and small airport ) will be determined during the negotiations . At such time , if any , as the Gaza Port is developed , the State of Palestine shall no longer have rights to utilize the earmarked port facilities in ( i ) Haifa and Ashdod , unless agreed to by the State of Israel , and ( ii ) Aqaba , unless agreed to by the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan . <h> SECTION THIRTEEN <h> DEAD SEA RESORT AREA <p> The State of Israel will allow the State of Palestine to develop a resort area in the North of the Dead Sea without prejudice to the State of Israel 's sovereignty at such location , including , without limitation , Israel 's sovereignty to the shoreline . The presence of the Palestinian resort area along the coast of the Dead Sea will not alter the distribution arrangements between the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and the State of Israel for natural resources in the Dead Sea . The State of Israel and the State of Palestine will establish a road that will allow the Palestinians to travel from the State of Palestine to this resort area , subject to Israeli security considerations . <h> SECTION FOURTEEN <h> WATER AND WASTE WATER TREATMENT <p> The parties recognize mutual water rights and agree to equitably share existing cross border water sources and cooperate in making additional sources available through existing and emerging technologies . Shared aquifers will be managed for sustainable use to prevent impairing the groundwater quality or damaging the aquifers through over-extraction . <p> Hydrological and climatic conditions , among other factors , will be considered when managing extraction . The parties will prioritize investing in desalination and other emerging technologies to produce substantial additional quantities of water for all uses and jointly seek to provide easily available , reasonably priced water to both parties . The parties agree to also focus investment in wastewater treatment and wastewater recycling and reuse to control and minimize pollution of the shared ground-waters . The parties will work together in good faith to manage the details with respect to water and wastewater treatment issues . <h> SECTION FIFTEEN <h> PRISONERS <p> The Israeli-PalestinianPeace Agreement will provide for the release of Palestinian prisoners and administrative detainees held in Israeli prisons , except ( i ) those convicted of murder or attempted murder , ( ii ) those convicted of conspiracy to commit murder ( in each case murder includes murder by terrorism ) and ( iii ) Israeli citizens . The release of prisoners ( other than those described in clauses ( i ) , ( ii ) and ( iii ) ) will be conducted in two phases to allow for orderly transfer and resettlement . All prisoners who are released will become citizens of the State of Palestine . For the avoidance of doubt , prisoners described under clauses ( i ) , ( ii ) and ( iii ) above shall not be released under the terms of the Israeli-PalestinianPeace Agreement . <p> The first phase , to occur immediately after the signing of the Israeli-PalestinianPeace Agreement , will include minors , women , prisoners over 50 years of age , prisoners in ill health , and those who have served over two-thirds of their sentence . <p> The parties will agree on the timing of the second phase , which will include the remaining eligible prisoners who have served over half their sentence . <p> Any additional prisoner releases will be based on Israeli consent . <p> As part of the agreement on prisoners , the State of Israel will agree to give amnesty to those Palestinians who committed offenses prior to the signing of the Israeli-PalestinianPeace Agreement , and who reside outside the State of Palestine , whose entry is approved into the State of Palestine pursuant to the Israeli-PalestinianPeace Agreement . Notwithstanding the forgoing , no amnesty will be given to any Palestinian described in clauses ( i ) , ( ii ) or ( iii ) above , and such individuals will not be permitted entry into the State of Palestine . <p> Each prisoner who is released will be required to sign a pledge to promote within their community the benefits of co-existence between Israelis and Palestinians , and to conduct themselves in a manner that models co-existence . Prisoners who refuse to sign this pledge will remain incarcerated . <p> Each prisoner who is released shall have the right to seek asylum in a third country . <p> No Palestinian prisoners or administrative detainees will be released in accordance with this section if all Israeli captives and remains are not returned to the State of Israel . <h> SECTION SIXTEEN <h> REFUGEES <p> The Arab-Israeli conflict created both a Palestinian and Jewishrefugee problem . Nearly the same number of Jews and Arabs were displaced by the Arab/Israeli conflict . Nearly all of the Jews have since been accepted and permanently resettled in Israel or other countries around the world . The Arabs who were displaced have , in very significant numbers , been isolated and kept from living as citizens in the many Arab countries in the region . For example , after the Kuwaiti government returned , following liberation by the United States and its coalition , it began a systematic clearing of Palestinians from the country through violence and economic pressure . The population of Palestinians in Kuwait dropped from 400,000 before the invasion to about 25,000 . <p> The Palestinians have collectively been cruelly and cynically held in limbo to keep the conflict alive . Their Arab brothers have the moral responsibility to integrate them into their countries as the Jews were integrated into the State of Israel . Keeping the Palestinian people in limbo is a widespread issue . For example , in Lebanon , Palestinians have been discriminated against and prevented from entering the labor market for decades , even those born in Lebanon . They are for the most part barred from owning property or entering desirable occupations , including law , medicine and engineering . To gain employment , Palestinians are required to receive government issued work permits , but remarkably few are ever given to Palestinianrefugees . <p> We must recognize that of all the Arab countries , the Kingdom of Jordan has valiantly attempted to take care of thePalestinian people in Jordan . <p> Proposals that demand that the State of Israel agree to take in Palestinianrefugees , or that promise tens of billions of dollars in compensation for the refugees , have never been realistic and a credible funding source has never been identified . In fact , the world struggles to find sufficient funds to support the over 70 million global refugees and displaced persons . Over the decades the United States has been committed to supporting the needs of Palestinianrefugees , who have suffered greatly over the last 70 years . From 1950 until and including 2017 , the United States contributed approximately $6.15 billion toUnited Nations Relief and Works Agency ( UNRWA ) . In the last 10 years alone , the U.S. contributed approximately $2.99 billion ( $3.16 billion in 2017 terms ) , which accounted for 28% of all contributions to UNRWA . Unfortunately , Palestinianrefugees have been treated as pawns in the broader Middle East chessboard , and empty promises have been made to them and to their host countries . A just , fair and realistic solution to the Palestinianrefugee issue must be found in order to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . <p> The Jewishrefugees who were forced to flee Arab and Muslim countries also suffered . Most settled in the State of Israel and some settled elsewhere . The Jewishrefugee issue , including compensation for lost assets , must also be addressed . Additionally , the State of Israel deserves compensation for the costs of absorbing Jewishrefugees from those countries . A just , fair and realistic solution for the issues relating to Jewishrefugees must be implemented through an appropriate international mechanism separate from the Israel-PalestinianPeace Agreement . <p> This Vision contemplates that the Palestinianrefugee issue will be resolved along the following lines : <h> GENERAL FRAMEWORK <p> The Israeli-PalestinianPeace Agreement shall provide for a complete end and release of any and all claims relating to refugee or immigration status . There shall be no right of return by , or absorption of , any Palestinianrefugee into the State of Israel . <p> To be eligible for any refugee rights under the Israeli-PalestinianPeace Agreement , individuals must be in Registered Refugee status by UNRWA , as of the date of release of this Vision . The reference to the UNRWA definition of refugees is being used solely to define the universe of claimants and to provide the Trustees ( as defined below ) of the PalestinianRefugee Trust ( as defined below ) the widest flexibility to determine the appropriate distribution methodology , but should not be construed as acceptance by the United States that , in the absence of the Israeli-PalestinianPeace Agreement , refugee status should be determined by reference to this definition , including on a multi-generational , perpetual manner . UNRWA 's mandate , and its multi-generational definition of who constitutes a refugee , has exacerbated the refugee crisis . Under any circumstance , individuals who have already resettled in a permanent location ( to be further defined in **27;2359;TOOLONG Agreement ) will not be eligible for resettlement , and will be eligible only for compensation as described below . <p> This plan envisions three options for Palestinianrefugees seeking a permanent place of residence : <p> Absorption into the State of Palestine ( subject to the limitations provided below ) ; <p> Local integration in current host countries ( subject to those countries consent ) ; or <p> The acceptance of 5,000 refugees each year , for up to ten years ( 50,000 total refugees ) , in individual Organization of Islamic Cooperation member countries who agree to participate in Palestinianrefugee resettlement ( subject to those individual countries ' agreement ) . <p> The United States will work together with other countries to establish a framework for the implementation of such options , including taking into account current host countries ' concerns and limitations . <h> COMPENSATION AND ASSISTANCE FRAMEWORK <p> It is the view of the United States that while refugee compensation is important and desirable , funds will have a far greater impact on the State of Palestine 's economic and social viability and on the refugees themselves if used to implement the Trump Economic Plan . The State of Palestine will be receiving substantial assistance to develop all key economic and infrastructure sectors . The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan , which has admirably supported Palestinianrefugees , will also receive benefits from the Trump Economic Plan . The Palestinianrefugees already residing in the State of Palestine and those who relocate to the State of Palestine will be direct beneficiaries of this large-scale aid and investment package . Nevertheless , we will endeavor to raise a fund to provide some compensation to Palestinianrefugees . Such funds will be placed in a trust ( the " PALESTINIANREFUGEE TRUST " ) to be administered by two trustees ( " TRUSTEES " ) to be appointed by the State of Palestine and the United States . The Trustees will administer the PalestinianRefugee Trust in accordance with the principles to be established by the Trustees and approved by the State of Palestine and the United States . The Trustees will work in good faith to adopt a distribution methodology to fairly compensate refugees in accordance with the priorities established by the Trustees and within the total amount of the funds collected for the PalestinianRefugee Trust . <p> Once the Trustees have received and analyzed refugee claims , they will allocate the funds in the PalestinianRefugee Trust to claimants in a manner that reflects those priorities . <p> It must be stressed that many Palestinianrefugees in the Middle East come from war torn countries , such as Syria and Lebanon that are extremely hostile toward the State of Israel . To address this concern , a committee of Israelis andPalestinians will be formed to address this issue and to resolve outstanding disputes over the entry in the State of Palestine of Palestinianrefugees from any location . The rights of Palestinianrefugees to immigrate to the State of Palestine shall be limited in accordance with agreed security arrangements . <p> Furthermore , the rate of movement of refugees from outside Gaza and the West Bank into the State of Palestine shall be agreed to by the parties and regulated by various factors , including economic forces and incentive structures , such that the rate of entry does not outpace or overwhelm the development of infrastructure and the economy of the State of Palestine , or increase security risks to the State of Israel . This rate of movement should be adjusted , as appropriate , with the passage of time . <p> Upon the signing of the Israeli-PalestinianPeace Agreement , Palestinianrefugee status will cease to exist , and UNWRA will be terminated and its responsibilities transitioned to the relevant governments . Part of the Trump Economic Plan will go toward the replacement of refugee camps in the State of Palestine with new housing developments in the State of Palestine . Thus , the Israeli-PalestinianPeace Agreement will lead to the dismantling of all Palestinianrefugee camps and the building of permanent housing . <h> SECTION SEVENTEEN <h> FOUNDATIONS OF A PALESTINIAN STATE <p> The transition to statehood is complex and fraught with peril . The region can not absorb another failed state , another state not committed to human rights or the rule of law . A Palestinian State , just like any other state , must combat all forms of terrorism and be accountable to its neighbors to be a productive and non-threatening member of the international community . For the sake of its future citizens and neighbors , it is critical that the State of Palestine have the necessary foundational elements to give it a high probability of succeeding . <p> The following criteria are a predicate to the formation of a Palestinian State and must be determined to have occurred by the State of Israel and the United States , jointly , acting in good faith , after consultation with the Palestinian Authority : <p> The Palestinians shall have implemented a governing system with a constitution or another system for establishing the rule of law that provides for freedom of press , free and fair elections , respect for human rights for its citizens , protections for religious freedom and for religious minorities to observe their faith , uniform and fair enforcement of law and contractual rights , due process under law , and an independent judiciary with appropriate legal consequences and punishment established for violations of the law . <p> The Palestinians shall have established transparent , independent , and credit-worthy financial institutions capable of engaging in international market transactions in the same manner as financial institutions of western democracies with appropriate governance to prevent corruption and ensure the proper use of such funds , and a legal system to protect investments and to address market-based commercial expectations . The State of Palestine should meet the independent objective criteria to join the International Monetary Fund . <p> The Palestinians shall have ended all programs , including school curricula and textbooks , that serve to incite or promote hatred or antagonism towards its neighbors , or which compensate or incentivize criminal or violent activity . The Palestinians shall have achieved civilian and law enforcement control over all of its territory and demilitarized its population . <p> The Palestinians shall have complied with all the other terms and conditions of this Vision . <p> The United States , the State of Israel and all regional neighbors will work productively and in good faith with the Palestinian leadership to provide the necessary assistance to the achievement of the criteria listed above . <p> As it transitions to an era of state governance , the Palestinian leadership will benefit from international assistance in crafting the political and logistical instrumentalities of statehood . <p> The international community should mobilize a worldwide effort to assist the Palestinians to achieve proper governance . By virtue of territorial proximity , cultural affinity and family ties , the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan is well placed to play a distinctive role in providing this assistance in fields such as law , medicine , education , municipal services , historic preservation and institution building . In a manner consistent with the dignity and autonomy of a future State of Palestine , the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan will offer long-term , on-the-ground assistance in designing relevant institutions and procedures and training of relevant personnel . The objective of such assistance will be to help the Palestinians build strong and well governed institutions . <p> Other countries will be encouraged to provide assistance to the Palestinians in areas in which they have special experience or expertise . The international community recognizes that the implementation of this Vision will necessitate the expansion of the Palestinian government 's reach and capacity to provide services to additional people across a larger area . The international community will provide technical assistance across the spectrum of services that the Palestinian government will need to provide , including security . Donors will place particular emphasis on upgrading infrastructure , equipment , and mobility and communication capacity to ensure the Palestinian government can professionally police a future State of Palestine . <p> Once these measures are completed the United States will encourage other countries to welcome the State of Palestine as a full member in international organizations . However , the State of Palestine may not join any international organization if such membership would contradict commitments of the State of Palestine to demilitarization and cessation of political and judicial warfare against the State of Israel . Through such membership in international organizations , other countries will encourage the participation of the State of Palestine as a respected and responsible member of the international community . <p> The State of Palestine will be able to establish diplomatic relations with other countries . <h> SECTION EIGHTEEN <h> EDUCATION AND CULTURE OF PEACE <p> As President Trump has said : " Peace can never take root in an environment where violence is tolerated , funded and even rewarded . " Therefore , it is very important that education focuses on peace to ensure that future generations are committed to peace and to ensure that the Israeli-PalestinianPeace Agreement can endure . Promoting a culture of peace will be an important element of the Israeli-PalestinianPeace Agreement with the goal of creating an environment that embraces the values of coexistence and mutual respect throughout the region . <p> The creation of a culture of peace should include an end to incitement , including in government-controlled media , as well as an end to the glorification of violence , terrorism and martyrdom . It should also prohibit hostile propaganda , as well as textbooks , curriculum and related materials contrary to the goal of the Israeli-PalestinianPeace Agreement , including the denial of one another 's right to exist . <p> A joint Commission on Acceptance and Tolerance will be created to focus on steps that can be taken help the people from both countries heal the wounds that have been created by this conflict and bring the people closer together through dialogue . <h> SECTION NINETEEN <h> ISRAELI-ARAB RELATIONSHIPS ; REGIONAL ECONOMIC PARTNERSHIPS <p> The decisions of the Arab Republic of Egypt and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan to sign peace treaties with the State of Israel were major historic breakthroughs . Nevertheless , significant and broader cooperation between these countries should be developed for the benefit of the Arab Republic of Egypt , the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan , and the State of Israel . The involvement of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in the Arab Peace Initiative increased the number of potential peace partners and introduced important concepts into the peace process . Much appreciation is owed to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for its role in the creation of the Arab Peace Initiative , which inspired some of the ideas contemplated by this Vision . <p> The goal of this Vision is to have the Arab states fully cooperate with the State of Israel for the benefit of all the countries in the region . For example , there should be flights between Arab countries and Israel to promote cross-tourism , and to better enable Arabs to visit Muslim and Christian holy sites in Israel . <p> The United States will strongly encourage Arab countries to begin to normalize their relations with the State of Israel and negotiate lasting peace agreements . <p> Economic ties between the State of Israel and its neighbors should be expanded in the interests of all sides , particularly given the interests of the Arab countries to move away from economies based on fossil fuels to economies based on new infrastructure and technology . By integrating their transportation infrastructure , the countries in the region can become a global hub for the movement of goods and services from Asia to Africa and Europe . Such integration between the State of Israel , the State of Palestine and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan will allow all three countries to work together to help move goods from Europe to the Persian Gulf and vice versa . The State of Israel and the Arab countries , including the State of Palestine , should establish strong economic partnerships and trade agreements . There should be a particular focus on significantly improving the economic and tourism sectors of the State of Palestine , the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and the Arab Republic of Egypt . <p> The emergence of this new reality of regional integration will require a fundamental change in international politics . In the diplomatic sphere , in particular , the Arab countries , along with the State of Palestine , should cease to support anti-Israel initiatives at the United Nations and in other multilateral bodies . In particular , they should not lend their support to any efforts intended to delegitimize the State of Israel . These countries are expected to end any boycott of the State of Israel and oppose the Boycott , Divestment , and Sanctions ( commonly referred to as BDS ) movement and any other effort to boycott the State of Israel . The United States views the BDS movement as destructive towards peace , and will oppose any activity that advances BDS or other restrictive trade practices targeting Israel . <p> Revisionist initiatives that question the Jewish people 's authentic roots in the State of Israel should also cease . Those initiatives fly in the face of not only Jewish and Christian history , but Islamic history as well . An important goal of this Vision is for the State of Israel to be treated by all as a legitimate part of the international community . <h> NEW OPPORTUNITIES FOR REGIONAL SECURITY INITIATIVES <p> In confronting common threats and in pursuing common interests , previously unimaginable opportunities and alliances are emerging . <p> The State of Israel , the State of Palestine and the Arab countries will work together to counter Hezbollah , ISIS , Hamas ( if Hamas does not reorient in accordance with the Gaza Criteria ) , and all other terrorist groups and organizations , as well as other extremist groups . <p> The threats posed by Iran 's radical regime has led to a new reality where the State of Israel and its Arab neighbors now share increasingly similar perceptions of the threats to their security . Furthermore , Israel and its Arab neighbors increasingly share a vision of stability and economic prosperity for the region . Enhanced strategic cooperation between countries in the region would set the stage for diplomatic breakthroughs and a broader regional security architecture in the future . <p> The State of Israel is not a threat to the region whatsoever . Economic conditions and Iran 's malign activities , however , pose an existential threat to many of the region 's states . Integrating Israel into the region will allow it to assist across a wide range of economic challenges as well as counter the threats of Iran . The Iranian attack on Aramco facilities in Saudi Arabia in 2019 , for example , shocked the world 's economy and makes clear the necessity for the countries of the region to work together on security . <p> The State of Israel and the Arab countries have already discovered their common interests in combating terrorist groups and organizations and the common danger posed by an expansionist Iran . These countries also face similar security challenges in the Mediterranean and the Red Sea . They should work together , along with the United States , to protect the freedom of navigation through international straits that are increasingly subject to the threat of Iran , its proxy forces , and terrorist groups . <p> These shared interest in the region should be expressed in closer ties between the State of Israel and the Gulf Cooperation Council . Moreover , the State of Palestine , the Arab Republic of Egypt , the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and the State of Israel ( and such additional countries in the region who wish to join ) should form an Organization for Security and Cooperation in the Middle East ( the " OS C M E " ) , similar to the model used by the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe . The OSCME mandate should include , among others , issues such as early warning of conflicts , conflict prevention , and crisis management . <h> SECTION TWENTY <h> MUTUAL RECOGNITION BETWEEN NATION STATES <p> The Israeli-PalestinianPeace Agreement will provide that the parties recognize the State of Palestine as the nation state of the Palestinian people and the State of Israel as the nation state of the Jewish people . <h> SECTION TWENTY-ONE <h> END OF CLAIMS/END OF CONFLICT <p> The Israeli-PalestinianPeace Agreement will end the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians , and end all claims between the parties . The foregoing will be proposed in ( i ) a new UN Security Council resolution , and ( ii ) a new UN General Assembly resolution . <h> SECTION TWENTY-TWO <h> CONDUCT DURING NEGOTIATIONS <p> We hope that the parties will seize the opportunity , embrace this vision and begin negotiations . During the negotiations the parties should conduct themselves in a manner that comports with this Vision , and in a way that prepares their respective peoples for peace . <p> During the peace negotiations , the parties are expected to do the following : <h> THE STATE OF ISRAEL <p> In areas of the West Bank that are not contemplated by this Vision to be part of the State of Israel , Israel will not : <p> Build any new settlement towns , expand existing settlements or advance plans to build in those areas ; <p> Expand any of the Israeli enclaves referred to in Section 4 or advance plans to expand those enclaves in those areas beyond their current footprint ; <p> Demolish any structure existing as of the date of this Vision and secure the necessary legislative and/or legal decisions to ensure such an outcome . This moratorium does not preclude demolition of any illegal construction , where such construction was initiated following the release of this Vision . This moratorium does not apply to the demolition of any structure that poses a safety risk , as determined by the State of Israel , or punitive demolitions following acts of terrorism . <p> In Palestinian enclaves referred to in Section 4 , the legal status quo will prevail and the State of Israel will enable the development of those Palestinian communities within their current footprint . <h> PALESTINIANS <p> The PLO and the Palestinian Authority shall : <p> Refrain from any attempt to join any international organization without the consent of the State of Israel ; <p> Take no action , and shall dismiss all pending actions , against the State of Israel , the United States and any of their citizens before the International Criminal Court , the International Court of Justice , and all other tribunals ; <p> Take no action against any Israeli or United States citizen before Interpol or any non-Israeli or United States ( as applicable ) legal system ; <p> Take all necessary actions to immediately terminate the paying of salaries to terrorists serving sentences in Israeli prisons , as well as to the families of deceased terrorists ( collectively , the " PRISONER &amp; MARTYR PAYMENTS " ) and to develop humanitarian and welfare programs to provide essential services and support to Palestinians in need that are not based upon the commission of terrorist acts . The goal is to change the applicable laws , in a manner that is consistent with the laws of the United States , and completely cease making Prisoner and Martyr Payments by the time of signing of the Israeli-PalestinianPeace Agreement ; and <p> Further the development of institutions necessary for self-governance . <h> THE UNITED STATES <p> To the extent permitted by law , the United States shall : <p> Allow the Office of the General Delegation of the Palestine Liberation Organization to reopen ; <p> Open a liasion mission to the Palestinian Authority at an appropriate location within the territory designated for the State of Palestine , as determined by the United States ; <p> Take appropriate steps to resume U.S. assistance to the West Bank and Gaza , to the extent reasonable and appropriate , in consultation with the U.S. Congress ; and <p> Work with the international community to support new initiatives for the Palestinian people including , programs to improve the delivery of electricity and water , ease the movement of goods and help create jobs . <h> APPENDIX 1 <h> CONCEPTUAL MAPS <h> APPENDIX 2A <h> SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS <p> Since the moment of its establishment , the State of Israel has not known a single day of peace with all of its neighbors . It has fought numerous defensive wars , some existential in nature , as well as asymmetric battles with terrorist groups . The State of Israel remains in a state of war with two of its neighbors ( Lebanon and Syria ) and is exposed to extraordinary risk from the rocket and missile arsenals on its northern border . The State of Israel has repeatedly confronted indiscriminate rocket fire from the Gaza Strip , and the State of Israel faces a grave threat from Iranian ballistic missiles , including missiles capable of carrying nuclear warheads , and belligerent public threats from Iran to wipe the State of Israel off the map . <p> Since the Six-Day War in 1967 , the West Bank and Gaza have figured prominently in the State of Israel 's security , largely because of geo-strategic considerations . Looking at the West Bank alone , the area is adjacent to the State of Israel 's coastal plain , where 70% of the State of Israel 's population is concentrated along with roughly 80% of its industrial capacity . <p> Prior to 1967 , Israel 's coastal plain was only 9 miles wide at its narrowest point . While the Israeli coastal plain is at sea level , the West Bank contains a north-south hill ridge providing any hostile force the ability to topographically dominate the most sensitive parts of Israel 's national infrastructure . This includes , for example , Ben Gurion Airport , Israel 's high tech industries , and its north-south road networks that connect Tel Aviv to Haifa in the north and Jerusalem in the east . <p> The security portion of this Vision was developed based on our best understanding of the security requirements of the State of Israel , as presented by successive Israeli governments to the United States . <h> THE STATE OF ISRAEL 'S SECURITY NEEDS <h> THE JORDAN VALLEY <p> The Jordan River lies approximately 1,300 feet below sea level , but it is situated right next to a north-south hill ridge that reaches approximately 3,318 feet at its highest point . That means that the Jordan Valley provides a steep , approximately 4,600 foot physical barrier against an external attack from the east . Israeli forces deployed along the eastern slopes of the West Bank hill ridge could hold off a numerically superior army until the State of Israel completed its reserve mobilization , which could take 48 hours . The State of Israel does not currently have a security concern with the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan , with which it has had a peace treaty since 1994 , but rather with other Middle Eastern powers that might seek to forcibly use Jordanian territory as a platform of attack against the State of Israel . <p> The Jordan Valley is not only significant with regard to conventional attacks against the State of Israel , but also with regard to terrorism . Following its unilateral withdrawal from the Gaza Strip , the State of Israel learned the implications of losing control of the external perimeter of contested territory for counterinsurgency warfare . Gaza became a safe haven , not only for Hamas , but also for international Jihadi groups like the PIJ that undermined the security of Egypt in the Sinai . If such groups infiltrated the West Bank , they could create a chaotic security situation for the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan , as well as for the State of Israel . <p> If the State of Israel withdrew from the Jordan Valley , it would have significant implications for regional security in the Middle East . <h> SECURE LINES OF SUPPLY TO THE JORDAN VALLEY <p> The State of Israel must assure for itself secure lines of supply for its forces in the Jordan Valley and the ability to move its military personnel and material into and out of the region . <h> BENGURION AIR PORT PERIMETER <p> Israel 's main international airport , Ben Gurion Airport , is 5.9 miles away from the pre-1967 line . Among the threats to airport security today are shoulder-fired anti-aircraft missiles used by terrorist organizations . Known as Man-Portable Air Defense Systems or MANPADS , these systems are proliferating across the Middle East . <h> ISRAELI CONTROL OF THE AIRSPACE WEST OF THE JORDAN RIVER <p> Because of its narrow size , the State of Israel lacks the time and the space many other countries enjoy to address fast approaching threats , especially airborne threats . The distance from the Jordan River to the Mediterranean is approximately 40 miles . A modern combat aircraft can cover that distance in under three minutes . For the Israeli Air Force to scramble fighters takes approximately three minutes . If the State of Israel did not maintain control of the West Bank 's airspace , it would not have adequate time to defend against incoming hostile aircraft or missiles . For that reason , in any peace arrangement , the State of Israel must have operational control over the airspace west of the Jordan River . <h> THE PROBLEM WITH INTERNATIONAL FORCES <p> The State of Israel has experienced the failure of international troops in Sinai ( before 1967 ) , Lebanon , Gaza , and the Golan . Given its experience , Israel 's first doctrine of security -- that it must be able to defend itself by itself -- is as salient as ever . It is a critical strategic interest of the United States that the State of Israel remain strong and secure protected by the IDF , and continue to remain an anchor of stability in the region . <h> IRAN <p> In the last few years , Iran has become an influential factor in areas of the Middle East , which could impinge upon Israeli security . Iran 's strategy seeks to encircle Israel , using Lebanon , Syria and Gaza , and encircle the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia , Iraq , Bahrain and Yemen . Iran hopes to establish a " land bridge " that stretches from the Iran-Iraq border to the Mediterranean Sea . All of Iran 's activity must be taken into account in determining the State of Israel 's security needs . <h> APPENDIX 2B <h> SECURITY CRITERIA <p> Specific Security Criteria shall include the following : <p> The State of Palestine 's counterterrorism system must encompass all elements of counterterrorism , from initial detection of illicit activity to longtime incarceration of perpetrators . Included in the system must be : intelligence officers to detect potential terrorist activity , specially trained counterterrorism forces to raid sites and arrest perpetrators , forensics experts to conduct site exploitation , pretrial detention officers to ensure the retention of prisoners , prosecutors and judges to issue warrants and conduct trials , and post-trial detention officers to ensure prisoners serve their sentences . The system should include stand-alone detention facilities and vetted personnel . <p> The State of Palestine will erect and maintain a legal system that clearly confronts terrorism , including by : a . Establishing and enforcing laws banning all terror activity and terror organizations and prohibiting all incitement to terrorism , as well as the financing of such activity and organizations ; b . Effectively prosecuting and appropriately sentencing those involved , both directly or indirectly , in terror activity ; c . Ending all payments rewarding terrorism , directly or indirectly , to those involved in terror activity or their families . <p> The breadth and depth of the anti-terror activities of the State of Palestine will be determined by : a . The extent of arrests and interdictions of suspects , perpetrators and accomplices ; b . The systematic and comprehensive nature of investigations and interrogations to root out all terror networks and infrastructure ; c . Indictments and the extent of punishments ; d . The systematic and comprehensive nature of interdiction efforts to seize weapons and explosives and prevent the manufacturing of weapons and explosives ; e . The success of efforts to prevent infiltration of terrorists and terror organizations into the security forces of the State of Palestine ; <p> During the negotiations the parties , in consultation with the United States , shall attempt to create acceptable initial non-binding metrics with respect to the Security Criteria that are acceptable to the State of Israel , and in no event less stringent than the metrics used by either the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan or the Arab Republic of Egypt ( whichever is stricter ) with respect to the Security Criteria . Because security threats evolve , the metrics are intended to be used as a guide , and will not be binding . However , the establishment of such non-binding metrics will allow the State of Palestine to better understand the minimum goals they are expected to achieve , and take into account regional minimum benchmarks . <h> APPENDIX 2C <h> DEMILITARIZATION CRITERIA AND OTHER SECURITY ARRANGEMENTS <p> In addition to the overriding security responsibility over the State of Palestine , the State of Israel will be responsible for security at all international crossings into the State of Palestine . With respect to the Rafah crossing , specific arrangements will be agreed upon between the Arab Republic of Egypt and the State of Israel to accomplish the security needs contemplated by this Vision . <p> The State of Israel will continue to maintain control over the airspace and the electromagnetic spectrum west of the Jordan river . During the negotiation period , the parties should negotiate in good faith relevant financial issues . The Israeli Navy will have the right to block prohibited weapons and weapon-making materials from entering the State of Palestine , including Gaza . <p> The State of Palestine will not have the right to forge military , intelligence or security agreements with any state or organization that adversely affect the State of Israel 's security , as determined by the State of Israel . The State of Palestine will not be able to develop military or paramilitary capabilities inside or outside of the State of Palestine . <p> A demilitarized State of Palestine will be prohibited from possessing capabilities that can threaten the State of Israel including : weapons systems such as combat aircraft ( manned and unmanned ) ; heavy armored vehicles ; mines ; missiles ; rockets ; heavy machine guns ; laser/radiating weapons ; anti-air ; anti-armor ; anti-ship ; military intelligence ; offensive cyber and electronic warfare capabilities ; production facilities and procurement mechanisms for weapons systems ; military infrastructure and training facilities ; or any weapons of mass destruction . <p> Any expansion of Palestinian security capabilities beyond the capabilities existing on the date this Vision is released shall be subject to agreement with the State of Israel . <p> The State of Israel will maintain the right to dismantle and destroy any facility in the State of Palestine that is used for the production of prohibited weapons or for other hostile purposes . While the State of Israel will use its best efforts to minimize incursions into the State of Palestine , the State of Israel will retain the right to engage in necessary security measures to ensure that the State of Palestine remains demilitarized and non-threatening to the State of Israel , including from terrorist threats . <h> Part B : Economic framework <h> FOREWORD <p> Generations of Palestinians have lived without knowing peace , and the West Bank and Gaza have fallen into a protracted crisis . Yet the Palestinian story will not end here . The Palestinian people continue their historic endeavor to build a better future for their children . <p> Peace to Prosperity is a vision to empower the Palestinian people to build a prosperous and vibrant Palestinian society . It consists of three initiatives that will support distinct pillars of the Palestinian society : the economy , the people , and the government . With the potential to facilitate more than $50 billion in new investment over ten years , Peace to Prosperity represents the most ambitious and comprehensive international effort for the Palestinian people to date . It has the ability to fundamentally transform the West Bank and Gaza and to open a new chapter in Palestinian history -- one defined , not by adversity and loss , but by freedom and dignity . <p> The first initiative will UNLEASH THE ECONOMIC POTENTIAL of the Palestinians . By developing property and contract rights , the rule of law , anti-corruption measures , capital markets , a pro-growth tax structure , and a low-tariff scheme with reduced trade barriers , this initiative envisions policy reforms coupled with strategic infrastructure investments that will improve the business environment and stimulate private-sector growth . Hospitals , schools , homes , and businesses will secure reliable access to affordable electricity , clean water , and digital services . Billions of dollars of new investment will flow into various sectors of the Palestinian economy ; businesses will have access to capital ; and the markets of the West Bank and Gaza will be connected with key trading partners , including Egypt , Israel , Jordan , and Lebanon . The resulting economic growth has the potential to end the current unemployment crisis and transform the West Bank and Gaza into a center of opportunity . <p> The second initiative will EMPOWER THE PALESTINIAN PEOPLE to realize their ambitions . Through new data-driven , outcomes-based education options at home , expanded online education platforms , increased vocational and technical training , and the prospect of international exchanges , this initiative will enhance and expand a variety of programs that directly improve the well-being of the Palestinian people . It will strengthen the Palestinian educational system and ensure that students can fulfill their academic goals and be prepared for the workforce . Equally important , access to quality healthcare will be dramatically improved , as Palestinian hospitals and clinics will be outfitted with the latest healthcare technology and equipment . In addition , new opportunities for cultural and recreational activities will improve the quality of life of the Palestinian people . From parks and cultural institutions , to athletic facilities and libraries , this initiative 's projects will enrich public life throughout the West Bank and Gaza . <p> The third initiative will ENHANCE PALESTINIAN GOVERNANCE , improving the public sector 's ability to serve its citizens and enable private-sector growth . This initiative will support the public sector in undertaking the improvements and reforms necessary to achieve long-term economic success . A commitment to upholding property rights , improving the legal and regulatory framework for businesses , adopting a growth-oriented , enforceable tax structure , and developing robust capital markets will increase exports and foreign direct investment . A fair and independent judicial branch will ensure this pro-growth environment is protected and that civil society flourishes . New systems and policies will help bolster government transparency and accountability . International partners will work to eliminate the Palestinian public sector 's donor dependency and put the Palestinians on a trajectory to achieve long-term fiscal sustainability . Institutions will be modernized and made more efficient to facilitate the most effective delivery of essential services for the citizens . With the support of the Palestinian leadership , this initiative can usher in a new era of freedom and opportunity for the Palestinianpeople and institutionalize the policies required for successful economic transformation . <p> These three initiatives are more than just a vision of a promising future for the Palestinian people -- they are also the foundation for an implementable plan . Capital raised through this international effort will be placed into a new fund administered by an established multilateral development bank . Accountability , transparency , anti-corruption , and conditionality safeguards will protect investments and ensure that capital is allocated efficiently and effectively . The fund 's leadership will work with beneficiary countries to outline annual investment guidelines , development goals , and governance reforms that will support project implementation in the areas identified within Peace to Prosperity . Grants , concessional loans , and other support will be distributed to projects that meet the defined criteria through a streamlined process that will enable both flexibility and accountability . <p> If implemented , Peace to Prosperity will empower the Palestinian people to build the society that they have aspired to establish for generations . This vision will allow the Palestinians to see a better future and realize an opportunity to pursue their dreams . With the support of the international community , this vision is within reach . Ultimately , however , the power to unlock it lies in the hands of the Palestinian people . Only through peace can the Palestinians achieve prosperity . <h> CHAPTER ONE <h> UNLEASHING ECONOMIC POTENTIAL <p> A lasting peace agreement will ensure a future of economic opportunity for all Palestinians . <p> The first initiative of Peace to Prosperity will establish a new foundation for the Palestinian economy , generating rapid economic growth and job creation . This part of the plan is built around four core programs and will be supported by an institutional foundation for economic growth and business investment . Peace to Prosperity will create a business environment that provides investors with confidence that their assets will be secure by improving property rights , the rule of law , fiscal sustainability , capital markets , and anti-corruption policies . <p> The first program will reduce constraints on Palestinian economic growth by OPENING THE WEST BANK AND GAZA to regional and global markets . Major investments in transportation and infrastructure will help the West Bank and Gaza integrate with neighboring economies , increasing the competitiveness of Palestinian exports and reducing the complications of transport and travel . To complement these investments , this program will also support steps to improve Palestinian cooperation with Egypt , Israel , and Jordan , with the goal of reducing regulatory barriers to the movement of Palestinian goods and people . <p> The second program will support the Palestinian economy by CONSTRUCTING ESSENTIAL INFRASTRUCTURE that the Palestinian people and their businesses need to flourish . This program will facilitate billions of dollars of investment in the electricity , water , and telecommunications sectors , increasing generation capacity while creating efficient transmission and distribution networks . The applicable authorities will receive training and assistance to manage this infrastructure and to increase competition to keep costs low for consumers . <p> The third program focuses on PROMOTING PRIVATE-SECTOR GROWTH with the potential to reduce unemployment to nearly single digits and to create over a million new Palestinian jobs . Following the adoption of key policy reforms and the construction of essential infrastructure , Peace to Prosperity envisions extraordinary private-sector investment in entrepreneurship , small businesses , tourism , agriculture , housing , manufacturing , and natural resources . The goal of early-stage investment will be to remove constraints to growth and to target key projects that build momentum , generate jobs , and increase gross domestic product ( GDP ) . From the father working in his shop to support his family , to the young college graduate building her first company , Palestinians working throughout the private sector will benefit from this program . <p> The fourth program encourages STRENGTHENING REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND INTEGRATION , creates new opportunities for Palestinian businesses , and increases commerce with neighboring countries . This program will boost the economies of Egypt , Israel , Jordan , and Lebanon and reduce trade barriers across the region . Increased cooperation between trading partners will support companies in these countries , which are seeking to develop international business , particularly in the West Bank and Gaza . This program will help the Palestinian private sector capitalize on growth opportunities by improving access to strong , neighboring economies . <h> UNLEASHING ECONOMIC POTENTIAL : <p> GOALS <p> Increase Palestinian exports as a percentage of GDP from 17 to 40 <p> Ensure continual availability of affordable electricity in the West Bank and Gaza <p> Double the potable water supply per capita available to the Palestinians <h> STRATEGY FOR REFORM <p> Successful economic transformations draw from core principles to build critical institutions and implement policy reforms that attract business investment and sustain long-term , private-sector-driven growth . Thriving business-friendly countries like South Korea , Singapore , Taiwan , and Japan built modern economies with an emphasis on investment-led growth , robust infrastructure development , and strong exports . In addition , property rights , the rule of law , fiscal responsibility and independence , capital markets , and anti-corruption safeguards are crucial elements in this vision 's strategy for growth . Peace to Prosperity embraces these fundamental principles and prioritizes their role in the Palestinian people 's journey toward sustained economic success . Advancing these core policy and regulatory reforms , along with supporting businesses and providing technical assistance , will create the business environment needed to foster an economic transformation capable of benefiting the generations to come . <h> BREAKOUT VENTURE <p> PROJECT : <p> Startup Equity-Matching and Lending Facilities <p> LOCATION : <p> West Bank and Gaza <p> FINANCING : <p> $100 million in grant equity funding <p> $300 million in concessional financing <p> PROJECT OVERVIEW : <p> This project will support the creation of equity-matching and lending facilities focused on Palestinian startups and emerging technology companies . The equity-matching component will encourage venture capital and private equity firms to invest in Palestinian startups . The lending component will incentivize Palestinian banks to increase their lending to qualified startups . Together , these facilities will help Palestinian entrepreneurs attract the equity and debt capital they need to build the next generation of innovative Palestinian companies . <h> HUMAN CAPITAL <p> Creating the foundation for growth and business investment begins with the Palestinian people . Palestinians , like all people , dream of a better future for themselves and future generations and aspire to professional success . Peace to Prosperity offers a path to realize those dreams . Drawing from models used by Germany and Sweden , this program lays out a strategy for training , developing , and employing the next generation of Palestinian men and women business and civic leaders . It builds the base of human capital for the Palestinian economy and prioritizes investment in technical and vocational education ; science , technology , engineering , and mathematics ( STEM ) programs ; and workforce development training to better prepare Palestinians for the jobs of today and the economy of tomorrow . Businesses will have a greater confidence that Palestinians will have the skills necessary to fill the jobs they seek to create , which will lead to a virtuous cycle of new investment and the expansion of existing operations . <h> ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND INNOVATION <p> Entrepreneurship , innovation , and private-sector growth are the cornerstones of vibrant economies . The recent success of Palestinian startups proves that Palestinian entrepreneurs have an impressive ability to build inventive , value-creating companies . To capitalize on their momentum , an institutional framework for growth should be adopted to position additional Palestinian entrepreneurs and companies for success . The incubator ecosystem in neighboring countries currently remains untapped by the Palestinian people , and Palestinians from around the world offer a talent pool that could support a strong , local startup culture . This program will support emerging Palestinian startups by helping Palestinianentrepreneurs overcome impediments to growth and break through the resource constraints they face today . Working in partnership with growing Palestinian and international venture capital firms , this project will incentivize regional cooperation for , and private investment in , promising Palestinian startups . Coupled with other investments in education and digital services , this program will help empower the next generation of Palestinian entrepreneurs to innovate and build their own successful companies , creating a successful entrepreneurial environment in the West Bank and Gaza . <h> SMALL AND MEDIUM BUSINESSES <p> Palestinian Micro , Small , and Medium Enterprises ( MSMEs ) , which today employ a majority of the Palestinian labor force , are critical to the success of the Palestinian economy . A thriving domestic business sector in the West Bank and Gaza will require access to credit and reforms to core laws , rules , policies , and regulations that create barriers to business and stagnate private-sector growth . Peace to Prosperity will ensure that all Palestinians -- not just the wealthy and connected -- share in the benefits of peace . A robust local business sector will create good-paying , high-quality jobs for working-class Palestinians and is ultimately the key driver of prosperity . In order to promote a job-creating environment for the working class , this project will encourage the Palestinians to build a new commercial framework that includes all key elements of a thriving business sector and that nurtures small- and medium-business growth . This program will support loans to small businesses in the West Bank and Gaza to ensure that these enterprises have access to the capital needed to reinvest in their operations and in the growth of their companies . Support to small and medium businesses will spur the growth of local enterprises , which can serve as partners to large international companies seeking to do business or make foreign direct investment . Prioritizing the creation of an institutionalized pro-growth policy framework will end the vicious cycle of poverty plaguing the Palestinianpeople and begin a transformation toward sustainable development and prosperity . <h> UNLEASHING ECONOMIC POTENTIAL BY OPENING THE WEST BANK AND GAZA <h> ROADS AND RAIL <p> The Palestinian people routinely encounter logistical challenges in the West Bank and Gaza , impeding travel , stagnating economic growth , reducing exports , and stunting foreign direct investment . Peace to Prosperity presents an opportunity to physically integrate the Palestinian community through an efficient , modern transportation network . This project will support the construction of roads across the West Bank and Gaza . Additional investment will finance the development of a transportation corridor directly connecting the West Bank and Gaza through a major road and , potentially , a modern rail line . These improvements will reduce the complications of travel for Palestinians and remove impediments that delay or prevent goods from reaching end markets by directly connecting population centers and easing barriers to movement . <h> BORDER CROSSINGS <p> To sustain economic growth , Palestinian goods and people must be able to easily and securely move across borders . This project will provide financial and technical assistance to build the capacity of immigration and customs officials to operate and manage crossing points in coordination with neighboring states . This project will also upgrade facilities at key crossing points along borders and construct new ports of entry . Upgraded or newly constructed terminals will be equipped with the latest border crossing technology , and older terminals will be refurbished and improved with amenities for travelers to use while in transit . Ultimately , this project has the potential to unlock unprecedented levels of trade , grow exports , and increase foreign direct investment in the West Bank and Gaza and its neighbors -- particularly Egypt , Israel , and Jordan . <h> BREAKOUT VENTURE <p> PROJECT : <p> " Breaking Down Barriers " Border Crossing Points Upgrades . <p> LOCATION : <p> West Bank and Gaza <p> FINANCING : <p> Up to $900 million in grant funding <p> PROJECT OVERVIEW : <p> New cargo terminals , special access roads , and other infrastructure will be built at major crossing points . These funds will also support capacity-building programs to train Palestinian officials in best practices and to finance the deployment of new systems and technologies . These investments will reduce wait times and improve customer service at crossing points . The project will create hundreds of direct jobs in construction and crossing-point management and thousands of jobs across the Palestinian economy by reducing the costs of trade and travel . <h> POWER <p> The shortage of affordable electricity has had profound effects on the well-being of the Palestinian people , particularly in Gaza . In the near term , this project will focus on bringing the Gaza electricity crisis to a swift end -- ensuring that Palestiniansin Gaza receive at least 16 hours of electricity per day within a year of project implementation . This objective will be accomplished through investments in grid upgrades , the Gaza Power Plant , and new renewable energy facilities . Additional investments in energy infrastructure will ensure Gaza has continuous access to electricity within five years and will reduce the cost of electricity in the West Bank by increasing domestic supply and improving grid infrastructure . Finally , this project will provide technical support to increase the capacity of Palestinian utilities to manage and service this sector . <h> BREAKOUT VENTURE <p> PROJECT : <p> " Power Gaza " Power Plant Upgrade <p> LOCATION : <p> Gaza <p> FINANCING : <p> Up to $590 million in grants and concessional financing <p> PROJECT OVERVIEW : <p> Stage One of this project will provide up to $90 million in grant funding to support the conversion of the Gaza Power Plant from diesel fuel to natural gas and connect it to a Gaza natural gas supply . This will increase electricity supply in Gaza by approximately 70 megawatts ( MW ) and significantly reduce the cost of electricity for Palestinians . In Stage Two , an additional investment of $500 million will expand the production capacity of the Gaza Power Plant by an additional 400 MW . The project will create hundreds of jobs in construction . It will also support the creation of thousands of jobs by supplying businesses in Gaza with reliable and affordable electricity for the first time in years . <h> WATER AND WASTE WATER <p> Access to water is a critical enabler of economic activity across many sectors of the Palestinian economy . By channeling significant investments into infrastructure that increases water supply , including desalination facilities , wells , and distribution networks , this project has the potential to double the amount of potable water available to Palestinians , per capita , within five years . Additional funding will support the development of new wastewater treatment facilities in the West Bank and Gaza , putting an end to the ongoing public-health risk posed by untreated wastewater . This treated water will be reused , creating vast supplies of affordable water for agricultural and industrial use . <h> DIGITAL SERVICES <p> While much of the world has experienced a digital technology revolution , digital services in the West Bank and Gaza are limited . This project will help the Palestinians leap a generation forward in digital services by providing financial incentives and technical expertise to support the Palestinian private sector in developing 4G LTE and 5G telecommunications services . To further expand internet access , other financial incentives will support Palestinian companies and municipalities in providing public high-speed wireless internet services . These investments will generate a digital transformation in the West Bank and Gaza and support economic growth across multiple sectors of the Palestinian economy . <h> UNLEASHING ECONOMIC POTENTIAL BY PROMOTING PRIVATE-SECTOR GROWTH <h> TOURISM <p> Unique and exciting characteristics give the West Bank and Gaza the potential to transform into a successful global tourism destination . Very few places in the world are home to such remarkable historical and religious sites . In addition , over forty kilometers of coastline in Gaza along the Mediterranean Sea could develop into a modern metropolitan city overlooking the beach , drawing from examples like Beirut , Hong Kong , Lisbon , Rio de Janeiro , Singapore , and Tel Aviv . Equally promising , traditional Palestinian cuisine varies across regions and excites visitors . Each Palestinian city boasts its own trademark dishes and flavors , from Ramallah 's Rukab ice cream to the famed knafeh of Nablus . Together , these attractions endow the West Bank and Gaza with rich potential tourism opportunities . To unlock the benefits of increased tourism in the West Bank and Gaza , this project will support investment in hotels , food and beverage establishments , and other tourism-related industries . Additional funding will be used to improve hospitality training and to renovate and upgrade tourist sites . Finally , this project will also finance a major international marketing campaign to highlight tourism attractions in the West Bank and Gaza to audiences around the world . Through these and other investments , the Palestinians will gain access to the resources they need to build a thriving tourism industry -- one with the potential to bring tens of thousands of visitors a year to the West Bank and Gaza and to stimulate economic growth across multiple sectors of the Palestinian economy . <h> BREAKOUT VENTURE <p> PROJECT : <p> Tourism Lending Facility and Site Rehabilitation <p> LOCATION : <p> West Bank and Gaza <p> FINANCING : <p> Up to $750 million in concessional financing <p> Up to $200 million in grant funding <p> PROJECT OVERVIEW : <p> To fully develop the Palestinian tourism industry , new investments are needed to improve accommodations and attractions close to popular tourist sites . This project will provide hoteliers and tourism companies with access to low-interest loans through a new lending facility managed in conjunction with Palestinian banks . Up to $375 million of loan capacity will be available for the five-year life of the program , ensuringPalestinians have access to the capital required to quickly develop this sector . After five years , this facility could be extended and expanded for an additional five years . Separately , an additional $200 million in grant funding will support the rehabilitation and development of potential tourism sites . <h> AGRICULTURE <p> While agriculture accounts for approximately eight percent of Palestinian employment , this sector has not met its potential due to limited access of Palestinian farmers to land , water , and technology . An improved business environment in the West Bank and Gaza and access to more land will create an enormous opportunity for farmers to expand their operations . At the same time , this project will support farmers who seek to secure financing from local banks and work with financial technology ( FinTech ) innovators . With increased access to capital , farmers will have the opportunity to purchase new seeds and fertilizers while developing greenhouses , irrigation systems , and other infrastructure . Other funding will help to rehabilitate arable land and build a new educational center to enhance agricultural education and training . These improvements will grow the capability of Palestinian farmers to shift their efforts to producing higher-value crops and afford them the opportunity to use modern farming techniques , further benefiting their businesses and , ultimately , their families . <h> HOUSING <p> High real estate prices across the West Bank and Gaza have made it difficult for many Palestinians to purchase a home . Peacewill increase construction in the West Bank and Gaza and drive down property costs . The ability to access new housing stock , supported by mortgages from Palestinian banks to qualified homebuyers , will support a growing housing market , improve the quality of life for average Palestinians , and help build strong communities . As property rights strengthen , Palestinianhomeowners also will be able to utilize their home assets as loan collateral , which may be used for small business borrowing or capital investment , further stimulating the Palestinian economy and increasing employment . <h> MANUFACTURING <p> From olive-wood carvings to exquisite embroidery , Palestinian craftsmanship has been in international demand for hundreds of years . Today , Palestinians have the opportunity to revive their legacy of high-quality manufacturing in the West Bank and Gaza . This program will support the development of state-of-the-art industrial zones and other manufacturing facilities in which Palestinian companies will benefit from tax and financing incentives that will lower the cost of doing business . Further , these specialized zones will provide companies with on-site services and training facilities in order to increase competitiveness and productivity . Part of the funding provided by this project will be dedicated to the development of joint facilities with neighboring countries , which will help enable the Palestinians and their neighbors to pool resources for their mutual benefit . Through this program , products made by Palestinians will be known for quality and value and have the potential fill the shelves of stores and warehouses around the world . <h> NATURAL RESOURCES <p> The West Bank and Gaza have significant endowments of stone and marble , hydrocarbons , and other minerals . This project will provide support for the development of major resource reserves , such as the Gaza Marine natural gas field , oil fields , and quarrying sites in the West Bank . It will also provide technical assistance to develop a regulatory framework for natural resource exploitation , including for shared resources along border areas . These resources have the potential to generate billions of dollars in revenue and create thousands of high-quality and good-paying Palestinian jobs . <h> ECONOMIC STABILIZATION AND DEVELOPMENT <p> The long-term economic outlook for the West Bank and Gaza is correlated to the economic strength and stability of neighboring countries . Presently , Egypt , Jordan , and Lebanon -- important markets for the Palestinians -- face distinct economic challenges . This project will draw upon these countries ' national development plans to help them overcome obstacles to their economic growth by supporting efforts to provide reliable domestic electricity , improve water delivery , bolster private-sector businesses , strengthen financial institutions , and modernize public-sector services . These investments will reduce the risk of regional economic instability and create a significant opportunity for the Palestinians to increase exports , grow foreign direct investment , and build new business partnerships with companies in the region . <h> REGIONAL TRADE AND COMMERCE <p> Regional integration and cooperation have the potential to create significant new economic opportunities for the Palestinianpeople . Just as Dubai and Singapore have benefited from their strategic locations and flourished as regional financial hubs , the West Bank and Gaza can ultimately develop into a regional trading center . This project will encourage the construction of new infrastructure to facilitate trade and transportation across the West Bank and Gaza , Jordan , Egypt , Israel , and Lebanon . From the improvement of neighboring countries ' airports and seaports to the development of a regional natural gas trading hub in Egypt , this project will improve mobility in the region and unlock new trade opportunities for the Palestinian private sector . <h> REGIONAL INVESTMENT <p> To improve the economic prospects of the region as a whole , attention must be devoted to igniting organic growth in the private sectors of neighboring countries . Drawing from the lessons of Poland in the 1990s and Egypt and Tunisia after the Arab Spring in 2011 , enterprise funds have had proven success in promoting growth by using public-sector seed money for investment funds targeting private equity and credit . Jordan , and possibly Lebanon and others , could benefit tremendously from new enterprise funds that support domestic companies . Such funds could invest equity capital into early-stage , promising private-sector businesses in these countries , create tens of thousands of new direct and indirect jobs for their citizens , and facilitate partnerships with employees and their companies and experts in industries around the world . Successful new enterprise funds in the Middle East region would benefit the West Bank and Gaza , and could provide the basis for larger regional enterprise funds or a dedicated West Bank and Gaza enterprise fund in the future . <h> CROSS-BORDER SERVICES <p> From water pollution to electricity shortages , the countries of the region face many shared challenges . New developments along border areas between the West Bank and Gaza , Egypt , Israel , and Jordan can address many of these issues while generating new economic activity . This project will support the development of major wastewater treatment plants , desalination facilities , and power plants in and for this region . These improvements will provide necessary services to people in need , while also facilitating collaboration , integration , and cooperation between the governments of countries in the region . <h> REGIONAL TOURISM <p> The Palestinian tourism industry would benefit significantly from increased tourism activity in neighboring countries . Building on the appeal of attractions like the Egyptian Pyramids , the archaeological wonders of Petra in Jordan , and the beaches of Lebanon , the neighbors of West Bank and Gaza have immense potential to grow their tourism industries . This project will support private companies or public-private partnerships to develop tourism sites , transportation options , and hotel and restaurant accommodations across Egypt , Jordan , and Lebanon . In tandem with these investments , this project envisions that these countries , in collaboration with the Palestinians , will develop a cohesive regional tourism strategy , including shared investment plans , marketing campaigns , and regional tourism packages . <h> BREAKOUT VENTURE <p> PROJECT : <p> Regional Tourism <p> LOCATION : <p> West Bank and Gaza , Egypt , Jordan , Lebanon <p> FINANCING : <p> Up to $1.5 billion in concessional financing <p> Up to $500 million in grants <p> PROJECT OVERVIEW : <p> With its culture , natural beauty , and historical and religious sites , the region has extraordinary tourism potential . This project will support private-sector domestic businesses and public-private partnerships to develop tourism sites and infrastructure in West Bank and Gaza , Egypt , Jordan , and Lebanon . Additional funding will be allocated to develop a regional-tourism strategy and marketing campaign focused on increasing the number of tourists that travel to multiple countries in the region within a single trip . These investments have the potential to increase tourism to the region as a whole and attract tens of thousands of additional tourists to the West Bank and Gaza each year . <h> CHAPTER TWO <h> EMPOWERING THE PALESTINIAN PEOPLE <p> The greatest resource of every nation is its people . <p> The second initiative of Peace to Prosperity will unlock the vast potential of the Palestinian people by empowering them to pursue their goals and ambitions . This part of the vision will support the Palestinian people through four core programs . <p> The first program will ENHANCE THE QUALITY OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM in the West Bank and Gaza and ensure that no Palestinian is disadvantaged by inadequate educational opportunity . This program will support the development and training of Palestinian educators while expanding access to educational opportunities to underserved communities and demographics . Other projects will help encourage educational reforms and innovation . By providing financial incentives to support the development of improved academic standards and curricula , this program will help turn the West Bank and Gaza into a center of educational excellence . <p> The second program will STRENGTHEN WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS , reducing unemployment rates and increasing the occupational mobility of the Palestinian workforce . By supporting apprenticeships , career counseling , and job placement services , this program will help ensure Palestinian youth are fully prepared to enter the job market and achieve their professional goals . Additional projects will help employed workers receive the training they need to enhance their skills or change careers . Ultimately , this program will ensure that all Palestinians have access to the tools they need to compete in the global economy and take full advantage of the opportunities offered by this vision . <p> The third program will provide new resources and incentives to TRANSFORM THE PALESTINIAN HEALTHCARE SECTOR and ensure the Palestinian people have access to the care they need within the West Bank and Gaza . This program will rapidly increase the capacity of Palestinian hospitals by ensuring that they have the supplies , medicines , vaccines , and equipment to provide top-quality care and protect against health emergencies . Other funds will help improve services and standards in Palestinian healthcare facilities . Through targeted investments in new facilities , educational opportunities for medical staff and aspiring healthcare professionals , and public awareness campaigns to improve preventative care , this program will significantly improve health outcomes throughout the West Bank and Gaza . <p> The fourth program will support projects that IMPROVE THE QUALITY OF LIFE for the Palestinian people . From investments in new cultural institutions to financial support for Palestinian artists and musicians , this program will help the next generation of Palestinians explore their creativity and hone their talents . It will also support improved municipal services and the development of new public spaces across the West Bank and Gaza . These developments will help turn the West Bank and Gaza into a cultural and recreational center to the benefit of all Palestinians . <h> EMPOWERING THE PALESTINIAN PEOPLE : <p> GOALS <p> Boost human capital development in the West Bank and Gaza , achieving a 0.70 score on World Bank Human Capital Index <p> Establish at least one Palestinian university in the global top 150 <p> Increase female labor force participation rate from 20 to 35 percent <p> Reduce infant mortality from 18 to 9 per 1,000 births <p> Increase average life expectancy from 74 to 80 years <h> EMPOWERING THE PALESTINIAN PEOPLE BY ENHANCING EDUCATION SERVICES <h> EDUCATIONAL QUALITY <p> From Birzeit to Bethlehem , strong academic programs exist in the West Bank and Gaza to educate Palestinians , yet the quality of education varies widely between institutions . This project will enhance educational quality and consistency throughout the West Bank and Gaza by focusing on educational outcomes . It will also provide financial incentives to public and privatePalestinian academic institutions to meet certain benchmarks , such as raising standards , improving curricula , and increasing post-graduation employment rates . In addition , expanding pre-service and in-service teacher training and certification opportunities will help ensure Palestinian teachers have the tools they need to help the next generation of Palestinians realize their full potential . Finally , this project will identify financial awards to recognize the accomplishments of Palestinian teachers and educational administrators who demonstrate success as measured by adopted metrics and standards . <h> BREAKOUT VENTURE <p> PROJECT : <p> New Palestinian University <p> LOCATION : <p> West Bank and Gaza <p> FINANCING : <p> Up to $500 million in grants <p> PROJECT OVERVIEW : <p> To prepare Palestinian students to join the workforce of the 21st century , this project envisions the construction and development of a new flagship liberal arts and sciences university in the West Bank and Gaza . The project will incorporate input from Palestinianacademic leaders to construct facilities that use the latest technology to deliver the highest-quality education . Top teachers and administrators will be recruited to impact the lives of Palestinians who are eager to learn and succeed academically . This project will also develop partnerships between the new university and top institutions abroad , which will incentivize academic exchanges and distance learning programs forPalestinian students and teachers . A separate Educational Affordability program will help ensure this university remains accessible to the general Palestinian public . <h> EDUCATIONAL ACCESS <p> While Palestinians have among the highest graduation rates in the region , many Palestinian schools are stretched beyond their capacity , with too few teachers and classrooms to support their students . To ensure all Palestinians have access to quality education , priority will be placed on expanding the capacity of early childhood , primary , and secondary schools , with a focus on supporting schools operating in underserved communities . This project will enable schools to expand their infrastructure and hire new teachers . To improve higher education , this project will support the creation of a new university in the West Bank and Gaza . Modeled after successful initiatives in the United Arab Emirates and Qatar , this new landmark institution will provide Palestinian students with direct access to a top international institution without leaving home . <h> EDUCATIONAL AFFORDABILITY <p> Like many students around the world , young Palestinians often encounter financial constraints that limit their educational opportunities . This project will reduce the financial burden on Palestinian students by expanding the resources available to finance their education . Peace to Prosperity will support a scholarship program whereby colleges and universities from around the world are encouraged to provide full and partial scholarships for Palestinian students to study abroad and obtain a world-class education . Palestinian banks will be offered technical assistance to support responsible student-lending , which will provide Palestinians options to supplement their scholarships and enroll in a quality academic program . Following graduation , these students would be expected to return home , as is typical in other countries with similar programs , to become a core element of the future generation of leaders in the West Bank and Gaza . <h> YOUTH AND WOMEN <p> Whether for a recent female tech graduate or a craftsman with 20 years of experience , building a brighter future in the West Bank and Gaza will require the contributions of all Palestinians . Unfortunately , Palestinians currently experience one of the highest youth-unemployment rates in the world . Equally problematic , while Palestinian women achieve higher levels of educational attainment than Palestinian men , Palestinian women constitute only a small percentage of the Palestinianworkforce . By providing the Palestinian public sector with policy advice on best practices , encouraging private-sector attention to this problem , and promoting a comprehensive strategy to empower youth and women , more women and youth will join the Palestinian labor force . Peace to Prosperity envisions a West Bank and Gaza where youth and women become entrepreneurs and business owners , have access to capital , and learn the skills needed to succeed . This project will increase job placement rates for Palestinian youth and women by providing them with career counseling , specialized training , and job placement services in a concentrated effort to employ them in higher-wage , high-growth occupations . <h> BREAKOUT VENTURE <p> PROJECT : <p> Career Counseling and Job Placement <p> LOCATION : <p> West Bank and Gaza <p> FINANCING : <p> Up to $30 million in grants <p> PROJECT OVERVIEW : <p> Peace to Prosperity envisions women within the West Bank and Gaza receiving the financing , market opportunities , and workforce training to succeed as entrepreneurs and private businessowners . As a part of promoting the adoption of a comprehensive strategy to advance economic opportunities for women , this project will support the development of a central institution to facilitate career counseling and job-placement services for women and young Palestinians throughout the West Bank and Gaza . This institution will be connected to Palestinian universities and local chambers of commerce to coordinate with career services centers and recommend curriculum improvements . It will also serve as a job portal , providing Palestinian youth and women access to listings for potential jobs , as well as resume guidance and other services . <h> SCIENCE , TECHNOLOGY , ENGINEERING , AND MATHEMATICS <p> For hundreds of years , the Arab world was the global center of science and mathematics . But , in modern times , neither the West Bank nor Gaza has kept pace with the leaders in these fields . Peace to Prosperity will support the Palestinian scientific community by generating research and employment opportunities in the West Bank and Gaza . This program will sponsor research and development partnerships between Palestinian and international companies and global research institutions , while also encouraging international firms to partner with Palestinians in the development of new commercial technologies and scientific research . Those efforts should create many more opportunities for Palestinian science , technology , engineering , and mathematics ( STEM ) students . <h> TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL EDUCATION <p> From students who graduate without the training and skills to perform the jobs companies need , to employers who seek well-taught , workforce-ready employees , more and better technical and vocational education is both sought and needed in the West Bank and Gaza . Drawing from successful models such as those deployed in Germany and Sweden , and using the tools of community college and distance-learning programs , this project expands overall enrollment capacity in technical and vocational institutions and tailors educational training to improve marketability and employability for students . This project also supports the development of new partnerships between these institutions and Palestinian companies to ensure students coming out of school have a relevant knowledge of the workplace , a better understanding of employers ' expectations , and a higher likelihood of success entering the workforce . <h> INTERNSHIPS AND APPRENTICESHIPS <p> Peace to Prosperity seeks to expand opportunities for on-the-job training and pre-graduation work experience for Palestinianstudents , with a particular focus on STEM fields . By partnering with the Palestinian public sector , the private sector , and non-profit organizations to develop new internship and apprenticeship programs for Palestinian students , this program will help Palestinian students gain work experience , identify gaps in their skill sets , and adjust their coursework accordingly . The goal of this project is to ensure that all Palestinians enrolled in universities and vocational schools have opportunities to intern or train at an institution that matches with their career goals , thereby increasing the likelihood they develop the skills needed for the jobs of the future and secure post-graduation gainful employment . <h> WORKFORCE TRAINING <p> To improve productivity and occupational mobility , employed Palestinians need access to training and educational opportunities that will help them develop new skills and advance their careers . This project will provide financial incentives to private-sector companies to develop training centers for their employees . These new facilities will be housed within industrial zones , which will be areas within the West Bank and Gaza designed to encourage investment and employment through preferential tax treatment . This project will also support Palestinians seeking to change careers by providing scholarships and fellowships to empower them to pursue new training and educational opportunities in Palestinianuniversities and vocational schools . <h> EMPOWERING THE PALESTINIAN PEOPLE BY INVESTING IN HEALTHCARE <h> HEALTHCARE ACCESS <p> Deficiencies of staff , medicine , equipment , and supplies in Palestinian medical facilities cause gaps in the Palestinianhealthcare system and force many Palestinians to forgo care or travel abroad to receive the care they need . In the near term , this project will support the deployment of more mobile and neighborhood clinics to meet the healthcare needs of underservedPalestinian communities and provide financial support to ensure hospitals and clinics receive medicine and equipment to improve treatment for those most in need of care . Other , later-stage projects will outfit public hospitals with new , state-of-the-art equipment to improve their ability to treat a variety of ailments and diseases -- reducing both wait times and the number of Palestinians that must be referred to hospitals abroad for treatment . <h> BREAKOUT VENTURE <p> PROJECT : <p> Strengthening Palestinian Hospitals and Clinics <p> LOCATION : <p> West Bank and Gaza <p> FINANCING : <p> Up to $300 million in grant funding <p> Up to $600 million in concessional financing <p> PROJECT OVERVIEW : <p> The Palestinian healthcare system requires better medical facilities to enhance treatment capabilities . This project envisions the development of new private specialized treatment centers , ensuring Palestinians are able to receive quality treatment for a wide range of illnesses and conditions within the West Bank and Gaza , while partnering with Palestinian health offcials to focus on cost-control and afordability reforms . <h> HEALTHCARE QUALITY <p> The shortage of resources within the Palestinian healthcare system has made it challenging for healthcare professionals to fully focus on improving quality standards and for Palestinian medical institutions to meet the highest standards and achieve international accreditation . This project will support technical and private-sector experts assisting hospitals and clinics in identifying areas for improvement and provide them with the resources to address existing needs . To further improve quality of care , this project will encourage doctors , nurses , and other medical staff to pursue international certifications , trainings , and research opportunities . These skilled professionals and modernized facilities can provide the foundation for the long-term quality of healthcare in the West Bank and Gaza . <h> PREVENTIVE HEALTHCARE <p> The threat of non-communicable diseases in the West Bank and Gaza is growing and made worse by the lack of primary and secondary prevention programs . This project will help Palestinian healthcare facilities expand the availability of services like vaccines , family-health-history assessments , and regular physical and mental-health checkups . This project will also finance a public-awareness campaign to inform the people about healthcare risks and the resources available to them within thePalestinian healthcare system . These efforts will reduce long-term healthcare costs and help the Palestinian people lead longer , healthier lives . <h> EMPOWERING THE PALESTINIAN PEOPLE BY IMPROVING QUALITY OF LIFE <h> ARTS AND CULTURE <p> From ancient to modern times , the West Bank and Gaza have been a center of arts and culture . They are home to many of the region 's most renowned artists and poets and are steeped in historic traditions , like the annual Nabi Musa festival . This great cultural legacy should be celebrated and supported . Working with Palestinian cultural institutions , this project will lift up the next generation of great Palestinian artists , musicians , and writers . Palestinians will have the opportunity to apply for year-long fellowships to study , train , and work in artistic and cultural fields at home and abroad . Other grants will finance the development of new cultural centers and museums across the West Bank and Gaza . These institutions will showcase the richness of Palestinian history and culture for thousands of local and international visitors each day . <h> SPORTS AND ATHLETICS <p> In addition to improving public health , sports and athletics can help Palestinian youth foster new ties with their peers and within their communities , and Palestinian teams can be a source of entertainment and pride for all Palestinians . This project will expand options for competitive , healthy activities for Palestinians through the construction of public athletic facilities in the West Bank and Gaza . This project seeks to inspire the next generation of Palestinian athletes dreaming to be on , and training for , future Palestinian teams competing on the world stage . <h> BREAKOUT VENTURE <p> PROJECT : <p> Urban Renewal <p> LOCATION : <p> West Bank and Gaza <p> FINANCING : <p> Up to $200 million in grant funding <p> PROJECT OVERVIEW : <p> Working with top Palestinian urban planners , this project will assist Palestinian municipalities in developing and rehabilitating infrastructure which will improve the quality of life within Palestinian urban areas . These funds will finance the development of sidewalks , libraries , parks , and other public spaces in cities and towns . They will also support the renovation of public buildings and other revitalization projects that beautify and improve urban areas across the West Bank and Gaza . <h> MUNICIPAL SERVICES <p> Palestinian municipalities lack the resources to deliver the basic services their citizens require to thrive . This project will improve services in Palestinian cities and towns by providing short-term funding to municipalities and non-governmental organizations focused on improving the lives of local citizens . These funds will allow local governments and institutions to improve basic services , including trash collection , emergency assistance , and traffic management . This funding will be linked to a series of reforms that will put Palestinian municipalities on a path toward independently funding and sustainably providing public services . Other funding will support the development of public spaces across the West Bank and Gaza , givingPalestinians more opportunities to spend time outdoors with their families and friends while also helping attract tourism to the West Bank and Gaza . <h> CHAPTER THREE <h> ENHANCING PALESTINIAN GOVERNANCE <p> While implementing Peace to Prosperity will require significant international support , no vision for the Palestinians can be realized without the full support of thePalestinian people and their leadership . <p> The third and final initiative of Peace to Prosperity seeks to encourage the Palestinian public sector to provide the services and administration necessary for the Palestinian people to have a better future . If the government realizes its potential by investing in its people and adopting the foundational elements identified in Peace to Prosperity , job growth will ensue and the Palestinian people and their economy will thrive . This vision establishes a path that , in partnership with the Palestinianpublic sector , will enable prosperity through three programs . <p> The first program of this initiative will help the Palestinian public sector TRANSFORM THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT through private property rights ; safeguards against corruption ; access to credit ; functioning capital markets along with pro-growth policies and regulations ; and certainty and predictability for investors that result in economic growth , private-sector job creation , and increased exports and foreign direct investment . Just as the Japanese , South Korean , and Singaporean governments rose to meet the daunting challenges their societies faced at critical times in their respective histories , so too can the Palestinian leadership chart a new course for its people . This program identifies and addresses the requirements for developing human capital , igniting innovation , creating and growing small and medium businesses , and attracting international companies that will invest in the future of the West Bank and Gaza . <p> The second program will invest in projects that BUILD THE INSTITUTIONS of the Palestinian public sector and enhance government responsiveness to the people . Through this program , government attention will be directed to increase judicial independence and grow civil society organizations . A stronger court system will better protect and secure the rights and property of the citizens . More government transparency will help foster trust from Palestinians -- and outside investors -- that court decisions are made fairly , contracts are awarded and enforced honestly , and business investments are safe . <p> The final program will IMPROVE GOVERNMENT OPERATIONS and the provision of services to the Palestinian people . In line with successful private-sector models , the Palestinian public sector must strive to be fiscally stable , financially independent , caring to its workers , and efficient in providing services to its citizens . This program will work to eliminate public-sector arrears and implement a budgeting and tax plan that promotes long-term fiscal sustainability , without the need for budget support or donor funds . It will also assist with the adoption of new technologies that can providePalestinian citizens the ability to directly request and access government support and services . The program will offer new training and opportunities for civil servants to improve their productivity , help prepare them to meet governance challenges , and make it easier for them to perform their jobs . And , finally , this program aims to provide government services at low cost and high efficiency , which will facilitate private-sector growth . <h> ENHANCING PALESTINIAN GOVERNANCE : <p> GOALS <p> Improve government transparency , achieving a Transparency International Corruption Perceptions Index score of 60 or better <h> PROPERTY RIGHTS <p> Private property rights and legal protections for business owners are prerequisites for sustainable economic development . Through this program , the Palestinian public sector will receive assistance in creating and improving the legal frameworks that advance systems of commercial law , competition law , bankruptcy law , and contract law . This program will work with thePalestinian public sector to clearly define private property rights , develop institutional protections for property owners , and register land ownership in a national database . Land registration is a critical step in the transformation of the Palestinianeconomy , which will unlock property for use as collateral for capital and eliminate many existing barriers to development . Ultimately , Peace to Prosperity envisions Palestinians having the opportunity to develop and modernize cities , villages , industrial areas , and agricultural lands , potentially generating billions of dollars in new economic activity . Strong property rights are critical to realizing this future . <h> LEGAL AND TAX FRAMEWORK <p> Long-term economic growth requires a legal and tax framework that supports the private sector and attracts investment . This project will provide technical and financial assistance to the Palestinian public sector to transition toward a pro-growth tax structure , install improved anti-corruption measures , open capital markets , and develop regulatory reforms that support economic growth . By developing new laws and regulations that increase competition , protect intellectual property and contract rights , and ensure legal recourse , this project will help give businesses the confidence they need to make new investments and expand existing operations . This project will also support ongoing efforts to develop a one-stop-shop forPalestinian business registration , which could dramatically reduce the cost and time required to start a company . These reforms will help ensure all Palestinians -- not just major corporations -- are able to take full advantage of the opportunities created by this vision . <h> BREAKOUT VENTURE <p> PROJECT : <p> Land Registration <p> LOCATION : <p> West Bank and Gaza <p> FINANCING : <p> Up to $30 million in grant funding <p> PROJECT OVERVIEW : <p> This program will help Palestinian property owners quickly register their land assets in a single database . Implemented in partnership with development institutions and thePalestinian public sector , it will help resolve contestedland ownership claims and clearly define private property rights . Reinforcing private property rights provides the security necessary for productive investments , while ensuring that owners are able to gain access to capital by mortgaging or selling their property . <h> CAPITAL MARKETS AND MONETARY POLICY <p> The Palestinian financial sector will be a critical partner in the implementation of Peace to Prosperity . This program will bolster the capacity of the financial authorities and private sector Palestinian banks to promote the health of the domestic financial system while facilitating an increase in productive lending , particularly to small and medium businesses . Palestinian banking authorities must be able to work with domestic banks to expand their capabilities to support a growing Palestinian business sector and to be effective channels for foreign investment and capital flows . Specifically , technical assistance will support efforts to preserve correspondent banking relations , optimize bank-lending practices , and build the capacity of financial authorities to regulate the banking sector and manage a portfolio of securities . <h> INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND FOREIGN DIRECT INVESTMENT <p> In addition to infrastructure expansion , increasing Palestinian exports will require the development of new trade policies . Under this program , robust technical support will help the applicable Palestinian authorities to establish a fair and reciprocal trade regime , manage commercial crossing points , and implement regulatory reforms that attract new trading partners . In parallel with these efforts , this project will bring multinational corporate leaders to the West Bank and Gaza and facilitate international investor conferences that raise awareness of opportunities to partner with , and invest in , Palestinian companies . Technical experts will also work with Palestinian officials to help them develop beneficial free trade agreements . ExpandedPalestinian regional and international trade will be central to the long-term growth of the Palestinian economy , and a focus onPalestinian exports will compel domestic companies to increase efficiency and quality to compete successfully in international markets . <h> ENHANCING PALESTINIAN GOVERNANCE THROUGH INSTITUTION BUILDING <h> JUDICIAL INDEPENDENCE <p> In accord with the principles of rule of law and separation of powers , the independence of the Palestinian judicial branch must be reassessed and strengthened . A strong judiciary and reliable court system allow businesses to know that their investments will be secure and that their companies and the products they create will be protected from unfair treatment . Confidence in legal matters is a critical element of business risk reduction , which attracts private capital and foreign investment . To this end , this project will partner with the Palestinian authorities to encourage laws and regulations that secure the independence of the judicial system . It will invest in building the capacity of the courts , with a particular focus on enhancing their ability to handle cases covering potential government abuse . In addition , this program will promote legal education , which will , among other things , help leaders better identify legal and regulatory reforms that would improve the government procurement process and the overall business environment . <h> BREAKOUT VENTURE <p> PROJECT : <p> Palestinian E-Governance <p> LOCATION : <p> West Bank and Gaza <p> FINANCING : <p> Up to $300 million in grant funding <p> PROJECT OVERVIEW : <p> This project will fund the development of a central online e-government system . Modeled after similar systems implemented in countries like Estonia , this portal will empower government ministries and everyday Palestinian citizens to share information and communicate in real time . Through this system , Palestinians will be able to request information from public-sector institutions regarding decisions and policies . This system will also allow Palestinians to request public-sector services , as discussed in the Service Delivery project . <h> ACCOUNTABILITY <p> Good governance requires rigorous systems that empower people to hold institutions accountable . Palestinians contribute tax revenue with the expectation that their government will spend it responsibly to provide services efficiently and effectively.Palestinians should have more and better avenues to seek accountability for allegations of government waste , fraud , and abuse ; episodes of government corruption ; instances of unfair or atypical decisions in criminal cases ; and unnecessary obstacles to the creation or growth of a business . In order for the Palestinian people to build confidence in their government , they need mechanisms to express their concerns and see actions in response . This project will enhance the capacity ofPalestinian anti-corruption institutions , including their capability to investigate allegations of corruption and mismanagement and to refer findings to competent domestic authorities without interference . This program will also provide technical and financial assistance to expand the capacity of the internal government auditor -- empowering it to review public-sector expenditures and investigate anomalies in a timely and transparent manner . <h> TRANSPARENCY <p> For the people to hold their government accountable , government policy decisions , the legislative process , and public-sector actions regarding procurement , contracts , licenses , and hiring need to be transparent . Palestinians should know how their government spends taxpayer money , and the government can improve its performance by making better use of the internet and digital platforms . New technologies have allowed and encouraged governments worldwide to improve transparency and accountability measures to the benefit of their citizens . This project will support the Palestinian institutions in adopting enhancements that improve public-sector transparency and communication directly with the Palestinian people . In order to sustain a future of prosperity , the Palestinian leadership owes its people a commitment to transparent governance , which inspires confidence in a bright future of opportunity . <h> CIVIL SOCIETY <p> Robust civil society institutions and a free press are important parts of any well-functioning democracy . Preserving and expanding these important institutions within the West Bank and Gaza will require new laws and practices that protect their independence and improve their capacity . To support these efforts , this project will provide training to Palestinian officials to help them enhance protections for civil society and ensure the freedom of the press . It will also support civil society organizations by identifying the resources needed to perform their important functions . <h> ENHANCING PALESTINIAN GOVERNANCE BY IMPROVING GOVERNMENT OPERATIONS <h> FISCAL SUSTAINABILITY <p> To promote the long-term health of the Palestinian economy , the Palestinian public sector must have a fiscally-sustainable budget . Under this project , technical experts will advise the Palestinian financial authorities on developing a plan to put the government on a path towards fiscal sustainability , with focuses on ending reliance on donor aid , efficiently raising domestic tax revenue , and increasing capacity to manage a portfolio of government securities . To support this effort , this project will provide short-term financial support to the Palestinian public sector to pay off its arrears to the private sector . It will support the deployment of new systems that build in accountability and transparency and that enable the applicable Palestinianauthorities to manage revenue collection at all commercial crossings and other ports of entry . The project will require thePalestinian public sector to implement systems that improve the efficiency , accountability , and transparency of payment collections for services such as electricity and water , which will help to reduce the long-term costs for consumers and encourage private investment . <h> BREAKOUT VENTURE <p> PROJECT : <p> Attracting Global Expertise <p> LOCATION : <p> West Bank and Gaza <p> FINANCING : <p> Up to $100 million in grant funding <p> PROJECT OVERVIEW : <p> The Palestinian diaspora ofers a tremendous potential source of talent for the Palestinian economy . Peace to Prosperity will require a significant increase in human capital capacity , and this project will support eforts to bring together and empower talented Palestinians and other experts from around the world to implement it . <h> CIVIL SERVICE <p> Good Palestinian governance requires commitment to its customers : the Palestinian people . Government 's core missions , top goals , and strategic objectives should be developed and aligned to increase the prosperity of the citizenry . To improve the quality of government employees in the West Bank and Gaza , this project will support the development of new educational programs and leadership training for civil servants , with a rigorous curriculum that focuses on being responsive to the needs of the people and providing excellent customer service . These programs will provide the next generation of Palestinian officials with skills in leadership , teamwork , negotiations , financial management , policy-making , and communications , while also promoting a culture of service and accountability . Performance metrics will be identified and career advancement will be rewarded based on measurable results . Leaders will learn to identify , prioritize , and showcase the government 's most important goals -- and metrics for those goals -- to best produce outcomes that will improve life in the West Bank and Gaza and grow the economy . Progress against baselines will be measured , tracked , and produced on the internet for the citizens to hold their government accountable for success . Measurements for growth in exports , foreign direct investment , and job growth are examples of metrics that can easily be evaluated and published . <h> SERVICE DELIVERY <p> A revitalized Palestinian economy will require modernized Palestinian public-sector services and institutions . This project will assist the applicable Palestinian authorities in implementing a comprehensive strategy to ensure the efficient delivery of services to its people . This effort will expand online government services , including payment services , utility management , school registration , and passport applications . These same systems will allow Palestinians to track the status of their requests and other performance indicators . To further boost the delivery of services , this project will work with the government to identify opportunities for public-private partnerships and to privatize services for which the private sector has a stronger , proven performance record . <h> AFTERWORD <p> Peace to Prosperity lays out a vision for a prosperous Palestinian society supported by a robust private sector , an empowered people , and an effective government . It shows what is possible with peace plus investment , and how success is achievable through specific programs supported by a portfolio of realizable projects . <p> Peace to Prosperity is a realistic and achievable plan that can be implemented by the Palestinians , with the support of the international community , to build a better future for the Palestinians and their children . Through this vision , the West Bank and Gaza can provide a future of dignity and opportunity for the Palestinian people . <h> How has the language evolved ? <p> To better understand how language has shaped the political discourse , we also read through seven of the most notable documents that have featured in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . <p> Within each document , we used text summarisation techniques to count the number of times key topics were mentioned and , perhaps more interestingly , - not mentioned . <p> The result is a series of graphics that reveal how the use of key topics has changed over the past century . <p> Mohamad Torokman / Reuters <p> Palestine ( as a state ) <p> Prior to the creation of Israel in 1948 , " Palestine " and the " Government of Palestine " were used several times to refer to the Palestinian state . <p> There is no mention of Palestine as a state in either UN resolution 242 ( 1967 ) , Resolution 478 ( 1980 ) , or the Oslo Accords ( 1993 ) . In fact , it was only in 2002 - in the Arab peace initiative - that The Council of the League of Arab States called for the " establishment of a Sovereign Independent Palestinian State " . <p> Trump 's new plan says the " United States will support the establishment of a Palestinian State " but only under a long list of preconditions . <p> The topic " Palestine " is only counted when referenced as a state - ie not " Palestinian " people . <p> Emmanuel Dunand / AFP <p> Israel ( as a state ) <p> The first mention of " Israel " in these documents was in UN resolution 242 ( 1967 ) which called for the " withdrawal of Israeli armed forces from territories occupied in the recent conflict " . <p> In 1967 , Israel completely occupied Gaza and the West Bank , including East Jerusalem . <p> Trump 's new plan repeatedly refers to the " State of Israel " and " the Palestinians " , further highlighting the disparity between the two . <p> The topic " Israel " is only counted when referenced as a state - ie not " Israeli " people . <p> Showkat Shafi / Al Jazeera <p> Jerusalem <p> Jerusalem , the holy city shared by Muslims , Christians and Jews , features prominently in UN Security Council Resolution 478 ( 1980 ) . <p> The resolution rejected Israel 's claim to Jerusalem as the " complete and united " capital of Israel and was adopted with 14 votes to none , with the United States abstaining . <p> Trump 's 2020 plan contradicts Resolution 478 by calling for Jerusalem to " remain the sovereign capital of the State of Israel " . <p> Said Khatib / AFP <p> Refugees <p> Hundreds of thousands of refugees fled to neighbouring Arab states in 1948 and again in after the war in 1967 . <p> According to UN Resolution 194 ( 1948 ) : " Refugees wishing to return to their homes and live at peace with their neighbours should be permitted to do so . " <p> Under Trump 's new plan , the " Right of Return " of Palestinian refugees , which is a universally recognised right in international refugee law , is mentioned once but only to say - " there shall be no right of return " . <p> Hazem Bader / AFP <p> Occupation <p> The Israeli occupation is the largest and longest-lasting occupation of modern times . <p> Israel militarily occupied the Gaza Strip and the West Bank , including East Jerusalem , in June 1967 . <p> The term " occupation " is strikingly missing from Trump 's 2020 plan . The only mention of the word is as a synonym for job or profession . <p> Ahmad Gharabli / AFP <p> Settlements <p> Israel 's building of settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territories is illegal under international law . <p> By 2018 , there were 611,000 Israeli settlers living in 250 settlements in the occupied West Bank , including East Jerusalem . <p> Trump 's 2020 plan legitimises these settlements and says that Israel " will not have to uproot any settlements , and will incorporate the vast majority of Israeli settlements into contiguous Israeli territory . " <p> Ahmad Gharabli / AFP <p> Jewish <p> Trump 's plan repeatedly describes Israel as the " Jewish State " . <p> This language has not been used to refer to the State of Israel since prior to its founding in 1948 . <p> The Balfour Declaration ( 1917 ) , which was a public pledge by Britain , promised the establishment of " a national home for the Jewish people " in Palestine . <p> Sorin Furcoi / Al Jazeera <p> United Nations <p> The international community as represented by the UN has overwhelmingly condemned Israel 's occupation of the Palestinian Territories . <p> In 1947 , the UN General Assembly voted in favour of partitioning Palestine between Jews ( with control of 55% of the land ) and Palestinians ( with 45% ) . <p> Trump 's new conceptual map would annex huge parts of the occupied West Bank and give Palestinians control of only 15% of historical Palestine . <h> Explore the past 100 years of deals <h> 1917 <h> Balfour Declaration <p> The Balfour Declaration was a 67-word letter written by British Foreign Secretary Arthur James Balfour on behalf of Britain 's government , promising the " establishment in Palestine of a national home for the Jewish people " . The letter was addressed to British Jewish community leader , Lord Lionel Walter Rothschild . The letter affirmed that " nothing shall be done which may prejudice the civil and religious rights of existing non-Jewish communities in Palestine " , without any mention of political rights . <p> Arabs protesting against the Balfour Declaration ( 1917 ) Getty Images <h> What was mentioned ? <p> Topics : <p> Jewish : 4 <p> Palestine : 2 <p> Missing Topics : <p> Israel : 0 <p> Jerusalem : 0 <p> Refugees : 0 <p> Occupation : 0 <p> Settlements : 0 <p> United Nations : 0 <p> Countries : <p> United Kingdom* <p> Referenced as " His Majesty 's Government " . <h> Click to show/hide topics <p> Hover over the small text below to read the full document : <p> November 2nd , 1917 <p> Dear Lord Rothschild , <p> I have much pleasure in conveying to you , on behalf of His Majesty 's Government , the following declaration of sympathy with JewishZionist aspirations which has been submitted to , and approved by , the Cabinet . <p> " His Majesty 's Government view with favour the establishment in Palestine of a national home for the Jewish people , and will use their best endeavours to facilitate the achievement of this object , it being clearly understood that nothing shall be done which may prejudice the civil and religious rights of existing non-Jewish communities in Palestine , or the rights and political status enjoyed by Jews in any other country . " <p> I should be grateful if you would bring this declaration to the knowledge of the Zionist Federation . <p> Yours sincerely , <p> Arthur James Balfour <h> 1947 <h> UN General Assembly Resolution 181 <p> UN General Assembly Resolution 181 was the resolution that adopted the partition plan for Palestine ( see map below ) . The resolution recommended the withdrawal of Britain and the termination of the Mandate , leaving behind two states in the county : Arab and Jewish . This plan was never implemented on the ground . <h> What was mentioned ? <h> Click to show/hide topics <p> Hover over the small text below to read the full document : <p> November 29 , 1947 <p> The General Assembly , Having met in special session at the request of the mandatory Power to constitute and instruct a Special Committee to prepare for the consideration of the question of the future Government of Palestine at the second regular session ; <p> Having constituted a Special Committee and instructed it to investigate all questions and issues relevant to the problem of Palestine , and to prepare proposals for the solution of the problem , and <p> Having received and examined the report of the Special Committee ( document A/364 ) ( 1 ) including a number of unanimous recommendations and a plan of partition with economic union approved by the majority of the Special Committee , <p> Considers that the present situation in Palestine is one which is likely to impair the general welfare and friendly relations among nations ; <p> Takes note of the declaration by the mandatory Power that it plans to complete its evacuation of Palestine by August 1948 ; <p> Recommends to the United Kingdom , as the mandatory Power for Palestine , and to all other Members of the United Nations the adoption and implementation , with regard to the future Government of Palestine , of the Plan of Partition with Economic Union set out below ; <p> Requests that <p> The Security Council take the necessary measures as provided for in the plan for its implementation ; <p> The Security Council consider , if circumstances during the transitional period require such consideration , whether the situation in Palestine constitutes a threat to the peace . If it decides that such a threat exists , and in order to maintain international peace and security , the Security Council should supplement the authorization of the General Assembly by taking measures , under Articles 39 and 41 of the Charter , to empower the United Nations Commission , as provided in this resolution , to exercise in Palestine the functions which are assigned to it by this resolution ; <p> The Security Council determine as a threat to the peace , breach of the peace or act of aggression , in accordance with Article 39 of the Charter , any attempt to alter by force the settlement envisaged by this resolution ; <p> The Trusteeship Council be informed of the responsibilities envisaged for it in this plan ; <p> Calls upon the inhabitants of Palestine to take such steps as may be necessary on their part to put this plan into effect ; <p> Appeals to all Governments and all peoples to refrain from taking any action which might hamper or delay the carrying out of these recommendations , and <p> Authorizes the Secretary-General to reimburse travel and subsistence expenses of the members of the Commission referred to in Part 1 , Section B , Paragraph I below , on such basis and in such form as he may determine most appropriate in the circumstances , and to provide the Commission with the necessary staff to assist in carrying out the functions assigned to the Commission by the General Assembly. * <p> The General Assembly , <p> Authorizes the Secretary-General to draw from the Working Capital Fund a sum not to exceed 2,000,000 dollars for the purposes set forth in the last paragraph of the resolution on the future government of Palestine . <p> PLAN OF PARTITION WITH ECONOMIC UNION <h> Part I. - Future Constitution and Government of Palestine <h> A. TERMINATION OF MANDATE , PARTITION AND INDEPENDENCE <p> The Mandate for Palestine shall terminate as soon as possible but in any case not later than 1 August 1948 . <p> The armed forces of the mandatory Power shall be progressively withdrawn from Palestine , the withdrawal to be completed as soon as possible but in any case not later than 1 August 1948 . <p> The mandatory Power shall advise the Commission , as far in advance as possible , of its intention to terminate the mandate and to evacuate each area . The mandatory Power shall use its best endeavours to ensure that an area situated in the territory of the Jewish State , including a seaport and hinterland adequate to provide facilities for a substantial immigration , shall be evacuated at the earliest possible date and in any event not later than 1 February 1948 . <p> Independent Arab and Jewish States and the Special International Regime for the City of Jerusalem , set forth in Part III of this Plan , shall come into existence in Palestine two months after the evacuation of the armed forces of the mandatory Power has been completed but in any case not later than 1 October 1948 . The boundaries of the Arab State , the Jewish State , and the City of Jerusalem shall be as described in Parts II and III below . <p> The period between the adoption by the General Assembly of its recommendation on the question of Palestine and the establishment of the independence of the Arab and Jewish States shall be a transitional period . <h> B. STEPS PREPARATORY TO INDEPENDENCE <p> A Commission shall be set up consisting of one representative of each of five Member States . The Members represented on the Commission shall be elected by the General Assembly on as broad a basis , geographically and otherwise , as possible . <p> The administration of Palestine shall , as the mandatory Power withdraws its armed forces , be progressively turned over to the Commission , which shall act in conformity with the recommendations of the General Assembly , under the guidance of the Security Council . The mandatory Power shall to the fullest possible extent coordinate its plans for withdrawal with the plans of the Commission to take over and administer areas which have been evacuated . <p> In the discharge of this administrative responsibility the Commission shall have authority to issue necessary regulations and take other measures as required . <p> The mandatory Power shall not take any action to prevent , obstruct or delay the implementation by the Commission of the measures recommended by the General Assembly . <p> On its arrival in Palestine the Commission shall proceed to carry out measures for the establishment of the frontiers of the Arab and Jewish States and the City of Jerusalem in accordance with the general lines of the recommendations of the General Assembly on the partition of Palestine . Nevertheless , the boundaries as described in Part II of this Plan are to be modified in such a way that village areas as a rule will not be divided by state boundaries unless pressing reasons make that necessary . <p> The Commission , after consultation with the democratic parties and other public organizations of the Arab and Jewish States , shall select and establish in each State as rapidly as possible a Provisional Council of Government . The activities of both the Arab and Jewish Provisional Councils of Government shall be carried out under the general direction of the Commission . <p> If by 1 April 1948 a Provisional Council of Government can not be selected for either of the States , or , if selected , can not carry out its functions , the Commission shall communicate that fact to the Security Council for such action with respect to that State as the Security Council may deem proper , and to the Secretary-General for communication to the Members of the United Nations . <p> Subject to the provisions of these recommendations , during the transitional period the Provisional Councils of Government , acting under the Commission , shall have full authority in the areas under their control including authority over matters of immigration and land regulation . <p> The Provisional Council of Government of each State , acting under the Commission , shall progressively receive from the Commission full responsibility for the administration of that State in the period between the termination of the Mandate and the establishment of the State 's independence . <p> The Commission shall instruct the Provisional Councils of Government of both the Arab and Jewish States , after their formation , to proceed to the establishment of administrative organs of government , central and local . <p> The Provisional Council of Government of each State shall , within the shortest time possible , recruit an armed militia from the residents of that State , sufficient in number to maintain internal order and to prevent frontier clashes . <p> This armed militia in each State shall , for operational purposes , be under the command of Jewish or Arab officers resident in that State , but general political and military control , including the choice of the militia 's High Command , shall be exercised by the Commission . <p> The Provisional Council of Government of each State shall , not later than two months after the withdrawal of the armed forces of the mandatory Power , hold elections to the Constituent Assembly which shall be conducted on democratic lines . <p> The election regulations in each State shall be drawn up by the Provisional Council of Government and approved by the Commission . Qualified voters for each State for this election shall be persons over eighteen years of age who are ( a ) Palestinian citizens residing in that State ; and ( b ) Arabs and Jews residing in the State , although not Palestinian citizens , who , before voting , have signed a notice of intention to become citizens of such State . <p> Arabs and Jews residing in the City of Jerusalem who have signed a notice of intention to become citizens , the Arabs of the Arab State and the Jews of the Jewish State , shall be entitled to vote in the Arab and Jewish States respectively . <p> Women may vote and be elected to the Constituent Assemblies . <p> During the transitional period no Jew shall be permitted to establish residence in the area of the proposed Arab State , and no Arab shall be permitted to establish residence in the area of the proposed Jewish State , except by special leave of the Commission . <p> The Constituent Assembly of each State shall draft a democratic constitution for its State and choose a provisional government to succeed the Provisional Council of Government appointed by the Commission . The Constitutions of the States shall embody Chapters 1 and 2 of the Declaration provided for in section C below and include , inter alia , provisions for : <p> Establishing in each State a legislative body elected by universal suffrage and by secret ballot on the basis of proportional representation , and an executive body responsible to the legislature ; <p> Settling all international disputes in which the State may be involved by peaceful means in such a manner that international peace and security , and justice , are not endangered ; <p> Accepting the obligation of the State to refrain in its international relations from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any State , or in any other manner inconsistent with the purpose of the United Nations ; <p> Guaranteeing to all persons equal and non-discriminatory rights in civil , political , economic and religious matters and the enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms , including freedom of religion , language , speech and publication , education , assembly and association ; <p> Preserving freedom of transit and visit for all residents and citizens of the other State in Palestine and the City of Jerusalem , subject to considerations of national security , provided that each State shall control residence within its borders . <p> The Commission shall appoint a preparatory economic commission of three members to make whatever arrangements are possible for economic co-operation , with a view to establishing , as soon as practicable , the Economic Union and the Joint Economic Board , as provided in section D below . <p> During the period between the adoption of the recommendations on the question of Palestine by the General Assembly and the termination of the Mandate , the mandatory Power in Palestine shall maintain full responsibility for administration in areas from which it has not withdrawn its armed forces . The Commission shall assist the mandatory Power in the carrying out of these functions . Similarly the mandatory Power shall co-operate with the Commission in the execution of its functions . <p> With a view to ensuring that there shall be continuity in the functioning of administrative services and that , on the withdrawal of the armed forces of the mandatory Power , the whole administration shall be in the charge of the Provisional Councils and the Joint Economic Board , respectively , acting under the Commission , there shall be a progressive transfer , from the mandatory Power to the Commission , of responsibility for all the functions of government , including that of maintaining law and order in the areas from which the forces of the mandatory Power have been withdrawn . <p> The Commission shall be guided in its activities by the recommendations of the General Assembly and by such instructions as the Security Council may consider necessary to issue . <p> The measures taken by the Commission , within the recommendations of the General Assembly , shall become immediately effective unless the Commission has previously received contrary instructions from the Security Council . <p> The Commission shall render periodic monthly progress reports , or more frequently if desirable , to the Security Council . <p> The Commission shall make its final report to the next regular session of the General Assembly and to the Security Council simultaneously . <h> C. DECLARATION <p> A declaration shall be made to the United Nations by the Provisional Government of each proposed State before independence . It shall contain , inter alia , the following clauses : <h> General Provision <p> The stipulations contained in the Declaration are recognized as fundamental laws of the State and no law , regulation or official action shall conflict or interfere with these stipulations , nor shall any law , regulation or official action prevail over them . <p> Chapter 1 : Holy Places , Religious Buildings and Sites <p> Existing rights in respect of Holy Places and religious buildings or sites shall not be denied or impaired . <p> In so far as Holy Places are concerned , the liberty of access , visit , and transit shall be guaranteed , in conformity with existing rights , to all residents and citizen of the other State and of the City of Jerusalem , as well as to aliens , without distinction as to nationality , subject to requirements of national security , public order and decorum . <p> Similarly , freedom of worship shall be guaranteed in conformity with existing rights , subject to the maintenance of public order and decorum . <p> Holy Places and religious buildings or sites shall be preserved . No act shall be permitted which may in an way impair their sacred character . If at any time it appears to the Government that any particular Holy Place , religious , building or site is in need of urgent repair , the Government may call upon the community or communities concerned to carry out such repair . The Government may carry it out itself at the expense of the community or community concerned if no action is taken within a reasonable time . <p> No taxation shall be levied in respect of any Holy Place , religious building or site which was exempt from taxation on the date of the creation of the State . <p> No change in the incidence of such taxation shall be made which would either discriminate between the owners or occupiers of Holy Places , religious buildings or sites , or would place such owners or occupiers in a position less favourable in relation to the general incidence of taxation than existed at the time of the adoption of the Assembly 's recommendations . <p> The Governor of the City of Jerusalem shall have the right to determine whether the provisions of the Constitution of the State in relation to Holy Places , religious buildings and sites within the borders of the State and the religious rights appertaining thereto , are being properly applied and respected , and to make decisions on the basis of existing rights in cases of disputes which may arise between the different religious communities or the rites of a religious community with respect to such places , buildings and sites . He shall receive full co-operation and such privileges and immunities as are necessary for the exercise of his functions in the State . <p> Chapter 2 : Religious and Minority Rights <p> Freedom of conscience and the free exercise of all forms of worship , subject only to the maintenance of public order and morals , shall be ensured to all . <p> No discrimination of any kind shall be made between the inhabitants on the ground of race , religion , language or sex . <p> All persons within the jurisdiction of the State shall be entitled to equal protection of the laws . <p> The family law and personal status of the various minorities and their religious interests , including endowments , shall be respected . <p> Except as may be required for the maintenance of public order and good government , no measure shall be taken to obstruct or interfere with the enterprise of religious or charitable bodies of all faiths or to discriminate against any representative or member of these bodies on the ground of his religion or nationality . <p> The State shall ensure adequate primary and secondary education for the Arab and Jewish minority , respectively , in its own language and its cultural traditions . <p> The right of each community to maintain its own schools for the education of its own members in its own language , while conforming to such educational requirements of a general nature as the State may impose , shall not be denied or impaired . Foreign educational establishments shall continue their activity on the basis of their existing rights . <p> No restriction shall be imposed on the free use by any citizen of the State of any language in private intercourse , in commerce , in religion , in the Press or in publications of any kind , or at public meetings. ( 3 ) <p> No expropriation of land owned by an Arab in the Jewish State ( by a Jew in the Arab State ) ( 4 ) shall be allowed except for public purposes . In all cases of expropriation full compensation as fixed by the Supreme Court shall be said previous to dispossession . <p> 1 . Citizenship Palestinian citizens residing in Palestine outside the City of Jerusalem , as well as Arabs and Jews who , not holding Palestinian citizenship , reside in Palestine outside the City of Jerusalem shall , upon the recognition of independence , become citizens of the State in which they are resident and enjoy full civil and political rights . Persons over the age of eighteen years may opt , within one year from the date of recognition of independence of the State in which they reside , for citizenship of the other State , providing that no Arab residing in the area of the proposed Arab State shall have the right to opt for citizenship in the proposed Jewish State and no Jew residing in the proposed Jewish State shall have the right to opt for citizenship in the proposed Arab State . The exercise of this right of option will be taken to include the wives and children under eighteen years of age of persons so opting . <p> Arabs residing in the area of the proposed Jewish State and Jews residing in the area of the proposed Arab State who have signed a notice of intention to opt for citizenship of the other State shall be eligible to vote in the elections to the Constituent Assembly of that State , but not in the elections to the Constituent Assembly of the State in which they reside . <p> 2 . International conventions <p> The State shall be bound by all the international agreements and conventions , both general and special , to which Palestine has become a party . Subject to any right of denunciation provided for therein , such agreements and conventions shall be respected by the State throughout the period for which they were concluded . <p> Any dispute about the applicability and continued validity of international conventions or treaties signed or adhered to by the mandatory Power on behalf of Palestine shall be referred to the International Court of Justice in accordance with the provisions of the Statute of the Court . <p> 3 . Financial obligations <p> The State shall respect and fulfil all financial obligations of whatever nature assumed on behalf of Palestine by the mandatory Power during the exercise of the Mandate and recognized by the State . This provision includes the right of public servants to pensions , compensation or gratuities . <p> These obligations shall be fulfilled through participation in the Joint Economic Board in respect of those obligations applicable to Palestine as a whole , and individually in respect of those applicable to , and fairly apportionable between , the States . <p> A Court of Claims , affiliated with the Joint Economic Board , and composed of one member appointed by the United Nations , one representative of the United Kingdom and one representative of the State concerned , should be established . Any dispute between the United Kingdom and the State respecting claims not recognized by the latter should be referred to that Court . <p> Commercial concessions granted in respect of any part of Palestine prior to the adoption of the resolution by the General Assembly shall continue to be valid according to their terms , unless modified by agreement between the concession-holders and the State . <p> Chapter 4 : Miscellaneous Provisions <p> The provisions of chapters 1 and 2 of the declaration shall be under the guarantee of the United Nations , and no modifications shall be made in them without the assent of the General Assembly of the United Nations . Any Member of the United Nations shall have the right to bring to the attention of the General Assembly any infraction or danger of infraction of any of these stipulations , and the General Assembly may thereupon make such recommendations as it may deem proper in the circumstances . <p> Any dispute relating to the application or interpretation of this declaration shall be referred , at the request of either party , to the International Court of Justice , unless the parties agree to another mode of settlement . <h> D. ECONOMIC UNION AND TRANSIT <p> The Provisional Council of Government of each State shall enter into an undertaking with respect to Economic Union and Transit . This undertaking shall be drafted by the Commission provided for in section B , paragraph 1 , utilizing to the greatest possible extent the advice and cooperation of representative organizations and bodies from each of the proposed States . It shall contain provisions to establish the Economic Union of Palestine and provide for other matters of common interest . If by 1 April 1948 the Provisional Councils of Government have not entered into the undertaking , the undertaking shall be put into force by the Commission . <p> The Economic Union of Palestine <p> The objectives of the Economic Union of Palestine shall be : <h> A customs union ; <p> A joint currency system providing for a single foreign exchange rate ; <p> Operation in the common interest on a non-discriminatory basis of railways inter-State highways ; postal , telephone and telegraphic services and ports and airports involved in international trade and commerce ; <p> Joint economic development , especially in respect of irrigation , land reclamation and soil conservation ; <p> Access for both States and for the City of Jerusalem on a non-discriminatory basis to water and power facilities . <p> There shall be established a Joint Economic Board , which shall consist of three representatives of each of the two States and three foreign members appointed by the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations . The foreign members shall be appointed in the first instance for a term of three years ; they shall serve as individuals and not as representatives of States . <p> The functions of the Joint Economic Board shall be to implement either directly or by delegation the measures necessary to realize the objectives of the Economic Union . It shall have all powers of organization and administration necessary to fulfil its functions . <p> The States shall bind themselves to put into effect the decisions of the Joint Economic Board . The Board 's decisions shall be taken by a majority vote . <p> In the event of failure of a State to take the necessary action the Board may , by a vote of six members , decide to withhold an appropriate portion of the part of the customs revenue to which the State in question is entitled under the Economic Union . Should the State persist in its failure to cooperate , the Board may decide by a simple majority vote upon such further sanctions , including disposition of funds which it has withheld , as it may deem appropriate . <p> In relation to economic development , the functions of the Board shall be planning , investigation and encouragement of joint development projects , but it shall not undertake such projects except with the assent of both States and the City of Jerusalem , in the event that Jerusalem is directly involved in the development project . <p> In regard to the joint currency system , the currencies circulating in the two States and the City of Jerusalem shall be issued under the authority of the Joint Economic Board , which shall be the sole issuing authority and which shall determine the reserves to be held against such currencies . <p> So far as is consistent with paragraph 2(b) above , each State may operate its own central bank , control its own fiscal and credit policy , its foreign exchange receipts and expenditures , the grant of import licences , and may conduct international financial operations on its own faith and credit . During the first two years after the termination of the Mandate , the Joint Economic Board shall have the authority to take such measures as may be necessary to ensure that - to the extent that the total foreign exchange revenues of the two States from the export of goods and services permit , and provided that each State takes appropriate measures to conserve its own foreign exchange resources - each State shall have available , in any twelve months ' period , foreign exchange sufficient to assure the supply of quantities of imported goods and services for consumption in its territory equivalent to the quantities of such goods and services consumed in that territory in the twelve months ' period ending 31 December 1947 . <p> All economic authority not specifically vested in the Joint Economic Board is reserved to each State . <p> There shall be a common customs tariff with complete freedom of trade between the States , and between the States and the City of Jerusalem . <p> The tariff schedules shall be drawn up by a Tariff Commission , consisting of representatives of each of the States in equal numbers , and shall be submitted to the Joint Economic Board for approval by a majority vote . In case of disagreement in the Tariff Commission , the Joint Economic Board shall arbitrate the points of difference . In the event that the Tariff Commission fails to draw up any schedule by a date to be fixed , the Joint Economic Board shall determine the tariff schedule . <p> The following items shall be a first charge on the customs and other common revenue of the Joint Economic Board : <p> The expenses of the customs service and of the operation of the joint services ; <p> The administrative expenses of the Joint Economic Board ; <p> The financial obligations of the Administration of Palestine , consisting of : <p> The service of the outstanding public debt ; <p> The cost of superannuation benefits , now being paid or falling due in the future , in accordance with the rules and to the extent established by paragraph 3 of chapter 3 above . <p> After these obligations have been met in full , the surplus revenue from the customs and other common services shall be divided in the following manner : not less than 5 per cent and not more than 10 per cent to the City of Jerusalem ; the residue shall be allocated to each State by the Joint Economic Board equitably , with the objective of maintaining a sufficient and suitable level of government and social services in each State , except that the share of either State shall not exceed the amount of that State 's contribution to the revenues of the Economic Union by more than approximately four million pounds in any year . The amount granted may be adjusted by the Board according to the price level in relation to the prices prevailing at the time of the establishment of the Union . After five years , the principles of the distribution of the joint revenue may be revised by the Joint Economic Board on a basis of equity . <p> All international conventions and treaties affecting customs tariff rates , and those communications services under the jurisdiction of the Joint Economic Board , shall be entered into by both States . In these matters , the two States shall be bound to act in accordance with the majority of the Joint Economic Board . <p> The Joint Economic Board shall endeavour to secure for Palestine 's exports fair and equal access to world markets . <p> All enterprises operated by the Joint Economic Board shall pay fair wages on a uniform basis . <h> Freedom of Transit and Visit <p> The undertaking shall contain provisions preserving freedom of transit and visit for all residents or citizens of both States and of the City of Jerusalem , subject to security considerations ; provided that each State and the City shall control residence within its borders . <p> Termination , Modification and Interpretation of the Undertaking <p> The undertaking and any treaty issuing therefrom shall remain in force for a period of ten years . It shall continue in force until notice of termination , to take effect two years thereafter , is given by either of the parties . <p> During the initial ten-year period , the undertaking and any treaty issuing therefrom may not be modified except by consent of both parties and with the approval of the General Assembly . <p> Any dispute relating to the application or the interpretation of the undertaking and any treaty issuing therefrom shall be referred , at the request of either party , to the International Court Of Justice , unless the parties agree to another mode of settlement . <h> E. ASSETS <p> The movable assets of the Administration of Palestine shall be allocated to the Arab and Jewish States and the City of Jerusalem on an equitable basis . Allocations should be made by the United Nations Commission referred to iii section B , paragraph 1 , above . Immovable assets shall become the property of the government of the territory in which they are situated . <p> During the period between the appointment of the United Nations Commission and the termination of the Mandate , the mandatory Power shall , except in respect of ordinary operations , consult with the Commission on any measure which it may contemplate involving the liquidation , disposal or encumbering of the assets of the Palestine Government , such as the accumulated treasury surplus , the proceeds of Government bond issues , State lands or any other asset . <h> F. ADMISSION TO MEMBERSHIP IN THE UNITED NATIONS <p> When the independence of either the Arab or the Jewish State as envisaged in this plan has become effective and the declaration and undertaking , as envisaged in this plan , have been signed by either of them , sympathetic consideration should be given to its application for admission to membership in the United Nations in accordance with article 4 of the Charter of the United Nations . <h> Part II . - Boundaries <h> A. THE ARAB STATE <p> The area of the Arab State in Western Galilee is bounded on the west by the Mediterranean and on the north by the frontier of the Lebanon from Ras en Naqura to a point north of Saliha . From there the boundary proceeds southwards , leaving the built-up area of Saliha in the Arab State , to join the southernmost point of this village . There it follows the western boundary line of the villages of ' Alma , Rihaniya and Teitaba , thence following the northern boundary line of Meirun village to join the Acre-Safad Sub-District boundary line . It follows this line to a point west of Es Sammu'i village and joins it again at the northernmost point of Farradiya . Thence it follows the sub-district boundary line to the Acre-Safad main road . From here it follows the western boundary of Kafr-I'nan village until it reaches the Tiberias-Acre Sub-District boundary line , passing to the west of the junction of the Acre-Safad and Lubiya-Kafr-I'nan roads . From the south-west corner of Kafr-I'nan village the boundary line follows the western boundary of the Tiberias Sub-District to a point close to the boundary line between the villages of Maghar and ' Eilabun , thence bulging out to the west to include as much of the eastern part of the plain of Battuf as is necessary for the reservoir proposed by the Jewish Agency for the irrigation of lands to the south and east . <p> The boundary rejoins the Tiberias Sub-District boundary at a point on the Nazareth-Tiberias road south-east of the built-up area of Tur'an ; thence it runs southwards , at first following the sub-district boundary and then passing between the Kadoorie Agricultural School and Mount Tabor , to a point due south at the base of Mount Tabor . From here it runs due west , parallel to the horizontal grid line 230 , to the north-east corner of the village lands of Tel Adashim . It then runs to the northwest corner of these lands , whence it turns south and west so as to include in the Arab State the sources of the Nazareth water supply in Yafa village . On reaching Ginneiger it follows the eastern , northern and western boundaries of the lands of this village to their south-west comer , whence it proceeds in a straight line to a point on the Haifa-Afula railway on the boundary between the villages of Sarid and El-Mujeidil . This is the point of intersection . The south-western boundary of the area of the Arab State in Galilee takes a line from this point , passing northwards along the eastern boundaries of Sarid and Gevat to the north-eastern corner of Nahalal , proceeding thence across the land of Kefar ha Horesh to a central point on the southern boundary of the village of ' Ilut , thence westwards along that village boundary to the eastern boundary of Beit Lahm , thence northwards and north-eastwards along its western boundary to the north-eastern corner of Waldheim and thence north-westwards across the village lands of Shafa ' Amr to the southeastern corner of Ramat Yohanan . From here it runs due north-north-east to a point on the Shafa ' Amr-Haifa road , west of its junction with the road of I'billin . From there it proceeds north-east to a point on the southern boundary of I'billin situated to the west of the I'billin-Birwa road . Thence along that boundary to its westernmost point , whence it turns to the north , follows across the village land of Tamra to the north-westernmost corner and along the western boundary of Julis until it reaches the Acre-Safad road . It then runs westwards along the southern side of the Safad-Acre road to the Galilee-Haifa District boundary , from which point it follows that boundary to the sea . <p> The boundary of the hill country of Samaria and Judea starts on the Jordan River at the Wadi Malih south-east of Beisan and runs due west to meet the Beisan-Jericho road and then follows the western side of that road in a north-westerly direction to the junction of the boundaries of the Sub-Districts of Beisan , Nablus , and Jenin . From that point it follows the Nablus-Jenin sub-District boundary westwards for a distance of about three kilometres and then turns north-westwards , passing to the east of the built-up areas of the villages of Jalbun and Faqqu'a , to the boundary of the Sub-Districts of Jenin and Beisan at a point northeast of Nuris . Thence it proceeds first northwestwards to a point due north of the built-up area of Zie'in and then westwards to the Afula-Jenin railway , thence north-westwards along the District boundary line to the point of intersection on the Hejaz railway . From here the boundary runs southwestwards , including the built-up area and some of the land of the village of Kh . Lid in the Arab State to cross the Haifa-Jenin road at a point on the district boundary between Haifa and Samaria west of El- Mansi . It follows this boundary to the southernmost point of the village of El-Buteimat . From here it follows the northern and eastern boundaries of the village of Ar'ara rejoining the Haifa-Samaria district boundary at Wadi ' Ara , and thence proceeding south-south-westwards in an approximately straight line joining up with the western boundary of Qaqun to a point east of the railway line on the eastern boundary of Qaqun village . From here it runs along the railway line some distance to the east of it to a point just east of the Tulkarm railway station . Thence the boundary follows a line half-way between the railway and the **27;2388;TOOLONG and Ras El-Ein road to a point just east of Ras El-Ein station , whence it proceeds along the railway some distance to the east of it to the point on the railway line south of the junction of the Haifa-Lydda and Beit Nabala lines , whence it proceeds along the southern border of Lydda airport to its south-west corner , thence in a south-westerly direction to a point just west of the built-up area of Sarafand El ' Amar , whence it turns south , passing just to the west of the built-up area of Abu El-Fadil to the north-east corner of the lands of Beer Ya'aqov . ( The boundary line should be so demarcated as to allow direct access from the Arab State to the airport . ) Thence the boundary line follows the western and southern boundaries of Ramle village , to the north-east corner of El Na'ana village , thence in a straight line to the southernmost point of El Barriya , along the eastern boundary of that village and the southern boundary of ' Innaba village . Thence it turns north to follow the southern side of the Jaffa-Jerusalem road until El-Qubab , whence it follows the road to the boundary of Abu-Shusha . It runs along the eastern boundaries of Abu Shusha , Seidun , Hulda to the southernmost point of Hulda , thence westwards in a straight line to the north-eastern corner of Umm Kalkha , thence following the northern boundaries of Umm Kalkha , Qazaza and the northern and western boundaries of Mukhezin to the Gaza District boundary and thence runs across the village lands of El-Mismiya El-Kabira , and Yasur to the southern point of intersection , which is midway between the built-up areas of Yasur and Batani Sharqi . <p> From the southern point of intersection the boundary lines run north-westwards between the villages of Gan Yavne and Barqa to the sea at a point half way between Nabi Yunis and Minat El-Qila , and south-eastwards to a point west of Qastina , whence it turns in a south-westerly direction , passing to the east of the built-up areas of Es Sawafir Esh Sharqiya and ' Ibdis . From the south-east corner of ' Ibdis village it runs to a point southwest of the built-up area of Beit ' Affa , crossing the Hebron-El-Majdal road just to the west of the built-up area of ' Iraq Suweidan . Thence it proceeds southward along the western village boundary of El-Faluja to the Beersheba Sub-District boundary . It then runs across the tribal lands of ' Arab El-Jubarat to a point on the boundary between the Sub-Districts of Beersheba and Hebron north of Kh . Khuweilifa , whence it proceeds in a south-westerly direction to a point on the Beersheba-Gaza main road two kilometres to the north-west of the town . It then turns south-eastwards to reach Wadi Sab ' at a point situated one kilometer to the west of it . From here it turns north-eastwards and proceeds along Wadi Sab ' and along the Beersheba-Hebron road for a distance of one kilometer , whence it turns eastwards and runs in a straight line to Kh . Kuseifa to join the Beersheba-Hebron Sub-District boundary . It then follows the Beersheba-Hebron boundary eastwards to a point north of Ras Ez-Zuweira , only departing from it so as to cut across the base of the indentation between vertical grid lines 150 and 160 . <p> About five kilometres north-east of Ras Ez-Zuweira it turns north , excluding from the Arab State a strip along the coast of the Dead Sea not more than seven kilometres in depth , as far as ' Ein Geddi , whence it turns due east to join the Transjordan frontier in the Dead Sea . <p> The northern boundary of the Arab section of the coastal plain runs from a point between Minat El-Qila and Nabi Yunis , passing between the built-up areas of Gan Yavne and Barqa to the point of intersection . From here it turns south-westwards , running across the lands of Batani Sharqi , along the eastern boundary of the lands of Beit Daras and across the lands of Julis , leaving the built-up areas of Batani Sharqi and Julis to the westwards , as far as the north-west corner of the lands of Beit-Tima . Thence it runs east of El-Jiya across the village lands of El-Barbara along the eastern boundaries of the villages of Beit Jirja , Deir Suneid and Dimra . From the south-east corner of Dimra the boundary passes across the lands of Beit Hanun , leaving the Jewish lands of Nir-Am to the eastwards . From the south-east corner of Beit Hanun the line runs south-west to a point south of the parallel grid line 100 , then turns north-west for two kilometres , turning again in a southwesterly direction and continuing in an almost straight line to the north-west corner of the village lands of Kirbet Ikhza'a . From there it follows the boundary line of this village to its southernmost point . It then runs in a southerly direction along the vertical grid line 90 to its junction with the horizontal grid line 70 . It then turns south-eastwards to Kh . El-Ruheiba and then proceeds in a southerly direction to a point known as El-Baha , beyond which it crosses the Beersheba-EI ' Auja main road to the west of Kh . El-Mushrifa . From there it joins Wadi El-Zaiyatin just to the west of El-Subeita . From there it turns to the north-east and then to the south-east following this Wadi and passes to the east of ' Abda to join Wadi Nafkh . It then bulges to the south-west along Wadi Nafkh , Wadi ' Ajrim and Wadi Lassan to the point where Wadi Lassan crosses the Egyptian frontier . <p> The area of the Arab enclave of Jaffa consists of that part of the town-planning area of Jaffa which lies to the west of the Jewish quarters lying south of Tel-Aviv , to the west of the continuation of Herzl street up to its junction with the Jaffa-Jerusalem road , to the south-west of the section of the Jaffa-Jerusalem road lying south-east of that junction , to the west of Miqve Yisrael lands , to the northwest of Holon local council area , to the north of the line linking up the north-west corner of Holon with the northeast corner of Bat Yam local council area and to the north of Bat Yam local council area . The question of Karton quarter will be decided by the Boundary Commission , bearing in mind among other considerations the desirability of including the smallest possible number of its Arab inhabitants and the largest possible number of its Jewish inhabitants in the Jewish State . <h> B. THE JEWISH STATE <p> The north-eastern sector of the Jewish State ( Eastern Galilee ) is bounded on the north and west by the Lebanese frontier and on the east by the frontiers of Syria and Trans-jordan . It includes the whole of the Huleh Basin , Lake Tiberias , the whole of the Beisan Sub-District , the boundary line being extended to the crest of the Gilboa mountains and the Wadi Malih . From there the Jewish State extends north-west , following the boundary described in respect of the Arab State . The Jewish section of the coastal plain extends from a point between Minat El-Qila and Nabi Yunis in the Gaza Sub-District and includes the towns of Haifa and Tel-Aviv , leaving Jaffa as an enclave of the Arab State . The eastern frontier of the Jewish State follows the boundary described in respect of the Arab State . <p> The Beersheba area comprises the whole of the Beersheba Sub-District , including the Negeb and the eastern part of the Gaza Sub-District , but excluding the town of Beersheba and those areas described in respect of the Arab State . It includes also a strip of land along the Dead Sea stretching from the Beersheba-Hebron Sub-District boundary line to ' Ein Geddi , as described in respect of the Arab State . <h> C. THE CITY OF JERUSALEM <p> The boundaries of the City of Jerusalem are as defined in the recommendations on the City of Jerusalem . ( See Part III , section B , below ) . <h> Part III . - City of Jerusalem(5) <h> A. SPECIAL REGIME <p> The City of Jerusalem shall be established as a corpus separatum under a special international regime and shall be administered by the United Nations . The Trusteeship Council shall be designated to discharge the responsibilities of the Administering Authority on behalf of the United Nations . <h> B. BOUNDARIES OF THE CITY <p> The City of Jerusalem shall include the present municipality of Jerusalem plus the surrounding villages and towns , the most eastern of which shall be Abu Dis ; the most southern , Bethlehem ; the most western , ' Ein Karim ( including also the built-up area of Motsa ) ; and the most northern Shu'fat , as indicated on the attached sketch-map ( annex B ) . <h> C. STATUTE OF THE CITY <p> The Trusteeship Council shall , within five months of the approval of the present plan , elaborate and approve a detailed statute of the City which shall contain , inter alia , the substance of the following provisions : <p> Government machinery ; special objectives . The Administering Authority in discharging its administrative obligations shall pursue the following special objectives : <p> To protect and to preserve the unique spiritual and religious interests located in the city of the three great monotheistic faiths throughout the world , Christian , Jewish and Moslem ; to this end to ensure that order and peace , and especially religious peace , reign in Jerusalem ; <p> To foster cooperation among all the inhabitants of the city in their own interests as well as in order to encourage and support the peaceful development of the mutual relations between the two Palestinian peoples throughout the Holy Land ; to promote the security , well-being and any constructive measures of development of the residents having regard to the special circumstances and customs of the various peoples and communities . <p> Governor and Administrative staff . A Governor of the City of Jerusalem shall be appointed by the Trusteeship Council and shall be responsible to it . He shall be selected on the basis of special qualifications and without regard to nationality . He shall not , however , be a citizen of either State in Palestine . <p> The Governor shall represent the United Nations in the City and shall exercise on their behalf all powers of administration , including the conduct of external affairs . He shall be assisted by an administrative staff classed as international officers in the meaning of Article 100 of the Charter and chosen whenever practicable from the residents of the city and of the rest of Palestine on a non-discriminatory basis . A detailed plan for the organization of the administration of the city shall be submitted by the Governor to the Trusteeship Council and duly approved by it . <h> 3 . Local autonomy <p> The existing local autonomous units in the territory of the city ( villages , townships and municipalities ) shall enjoy wide powers of local government and administration . <p> The Governor shall study and submit for the consideration and decision of the Trusteeship Council a plan for the establishment of special town units consisting , respectively , of the Jewish and Arab sections of new Jerusalem . The new town units shall continue to form part the present municipality of Jerusalem . <h> Security measures <p> The City of Jerusalem shall be demilitarized ; neutrality shall be declared and preserved , and no para-military formations , exercises or activities shall be permitted within its borders . <p> Should the administration of the City of Jerusalem be seriously obstructed or prevented by the non-cooperation or interference of one or more sections of the population the Governor shall have authority to take such measures as may be necessary to restore the effective functioning of administration . <p> To assist in the maintenance of internal law and order , especially for the protection of the Holy Places and religious buildings and sites in the city , the Governor shall organize a special police force of adequate strength , the members of which shall be recruited outside of Palestine . The Governor shall be empowered to direct such budgetary provision as may be necessary for the maintenance of this force . <h> Legislative Organization . <p> A Legislative Council , elected by adult residents of the city irrespective of nationality on the basis of universal and secret suffrage and proportional representation , shall have powers of legislation and taxation . No legislative measures shall , however , conflict or interfere with the provisions which will be set forth in the Statute of the City , nor shall any law , regulation , or official action prevail over them . The Statute shall grant to the Governor a right of vetoing bills inconsistent with the provisions referred to in the preceding sentence . It shall also empower him to promulgate temporary ordinances in case the Council fails to adopt in time a bill deemed essential to the normal functioning of the administration . <h> Administration of Justice . <p> The Statute shall provide for the establishment of an independent judiciary system , including a court of appeal . All the inhabitants of the city shall be subject to it . <h> Economic Union and Economic Regime . <p> The City of Jerusalem shall be included in the Economic Union of Palestine and be bound by all stipulations of the undertaking and of any treaties issued therefrom , as well as by the decisions of the Joint Economic Board . The headquarters of the Economic Board shall be established in the territory City . The Statute shall provide for the regulation of economic matters not falling within the regime of the Economic Union , on the basis of equal treatment and non-discrimination for all members of thc United Nations and their nationals . <p> Freedom of Transit and Visit : Control of residents . <p> Subject to considerations of security , and of economic welfare as determined by the Governor under the directions of the Trusteeship Council , freedom of entry into , and residence within the borders of the City shall be guaranteed for the residents or citizens of the Arab and Jewish States . Immigration into , and residence within , the borders of the city for nationals of other States shall be controlled by the Governor under the directions of the Trusteeship Council . <p> Relations with Arab and Jewish States . Representatives of the Arab and Jewish States shall be accredited to the Governor of the City and charged with the protection of the interests of their States and nationals in connection with the international administration of thc City . <h> Official languages . <p> Arabic and Hebrew shall be the official languages of the city . This will not preclude the adoption of one or more additional working languages , as may be required . <h> Citizenship . <p> All the residents shall become ipso facto citizens of the City of Jerusalem unless they opt for citizenship of the State of which they have been citizens or , if Arabs or Jews , have filed notice of intention to become citizens of the Arab or Jewish State respectively , according to Part 1 , section B , paragraph 9 , of this Plan . <p> The Trusteeship Council shall make arrangements for consular protection of the citizens of the City outside its territory . <h> Freedoms of citizens <p> Subject only to the requirements of public order and morals , the inhabitants of the City shall be ensured the enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms , including freedom of conscience , religion and worship , language , education , speech and press , assembly and association , and petition . <p> No discrimination of any kind shall be made between the inhabitants on the grounds of race , religion , language or sex . <p> All persons within the City shall be entitled to equal protection of the laws . <p> The family law and personal status of the various persons and communities and their religious interests , including endowments , shall be respected . <p> Except as may be required for the maintenance of public order and good government , no measure shall be taken to obstruct or interfere with the enterprise of religious or charitable bodies of all faiths or to discriminate against any representative or member of these bodies on the ground of his religion or nationality . <p> The City shall ensure adequate primary and secondary education for the Arab and Jewish communities respectively , in their own languages and in accordance with their cultural traditions . <p> The right of each community to maintain its own schools for the education of its own members in its own language , while conforming to such educational requirements of a general nature as the City may impose , shall not be denied or impaired . Foreign educational establishments shall continue their activity on the basis of their existing rights . <p> No restriction shall be imposed on the free use by any inhabitant of the City of any language in private intercourse , in commerce , in religion , in the Press or in publications of any kind , or at public meetings . <p> Holy Places Existing rights in respect of Holy Places and religious buildings or sites shall not be denied or impaired . <p> Free access to the Holy Places and religious buildings or sites and the free exercise of worship shall be secured in conformity with existing rights and subject to the requirements of public order and decorum . <p> Holy Places and religious buildings or sites shall be preserved . No act shall be permitted which may in any way impair their sacred character . If at any time it appears to the Governor that any particular Holy Place , religious building or site is in need of urgent repair , the Governor may call upon the community or communities concerned to carry out such repair . The Governor may carry it out himself at the expense of the community or communities concerned if no action is taken within a reasonable time . <p> No taxation shall be levied in respect of any Holy Place , religious building or site which was exempt from taxation on the date of the creation of the City . No change in the incidence of such taxation shall be made which would either discriminate between the owners or occupiers of Holy Places , religious buildings or sites or would place such owners or occupiers in a position less favourable in relation to the general incidence of taxation than existed at the time of the adoption of the Assembly 's recommendations . <p> Special powers of the Governor in respect of the Holy Places , religious buildings and sites in the City and in any part of Palestine . <p> The protection of the Holy Places , religious buildings and sites located in the City of Jerusalem shall be a special concern of the Governor . With relation to such places , buildings and sites in Palestine outside the city , the Governor shall determine , on the ground of powers granted to him by the Constitution of both States , whether the provisions of the Constitution of the Arab and Jewish States in Palestine dealing therewith and the religious rights appertaining thereto are being properly applied and respected . <p> The Governor shall also be empowered to make decisions on the basis of existing rights in cases of disputes which may arise between the different religious communities or the rites of a religious community in respect of the Holy Places , religious buildings and sites in any part of Palestine . <p> In this task he may be assisted by a consultative council of representatives of different denominations acting in an advisory capacity . <h> D. DURATION OF THE SPECIAL REGIME <p> The Statute elaborated by the Trusteeship Council the aforementioned principles shall come into force not later than 1 October 1948 . It shall remain in force in the first instance for a period of ten years , unless the Trusteeship Council finds it necessary to undertake a re-examination of these provisions at an earlier date . After the expiration of this period the whole scheme shall be subject to examination by the Trusteeship Council in the light of experience acquired with its functioning . The residents the City shall be then free to express by means of a referendum their wishes as to possible modifications of regime of the City . <h> Part IV . Capitulations <p> States whose nationals have in the past enjoyed in Palestine the privileges and immunities of foreigners , including the benefits of consular jurisdiction and protection , as formerly enjoyed by capitulation or usage in the Ottoman Empire , are invited to renounce any right pertaining to them to the re-establishment of such privileges and immunities in the proposed Arab and Jewish States and the City of Jerusalem . <h> 1948 <h> UN General Assembly Resolution 194 <p> UN Resolution 194 , adopted in December 1948 , established a Conciliation Commission , which was tasked with facilitating peace . The resolution also affirmed Palestinians ' Right of Return . Neither Palestinians nor Israelis were given an opportunity to vote on the resolution . <p> Palestinians fleeing with their possessions from a village in Galilee ( 1948 ) <h> What was mentioned ? <p> Topics : <p> United Nations : 13 <p> Palestine : 10 <p> Jerusalem : 10 <p> Refugees : 3 <p> Missing Topics : <p> Israel : 0 <p> Occupation : 0 <p> Settlements : 0 <p> Jewish : 0 <p> Countries : <p> China : 1 <p> France : 1 <p> United Kingdom : 1 <p> United States : 1 <p> USSR : 1 <h> Click to show/hide topics <p> Hover over the small text below to read the full document : <p> Palestine <p> China <p> France <p> Soviet <p> THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY , <p> HAVING CONSIDERED FURTHER the situation in Palestine , <p> 1 . Expresses its deep appreciation of the progress achieved through the good offices of the late United Nations Mediator in promoting a peaceful adjustment of the future situation of Palestine , for which cause he sacrificed his life ; and <p> Extends its thanks to the Acting Mediator and his staff for their continued efforts and devotion to duty in Palestine : <p> 2 . Establishes a Conciliation Commission consisting of three States Members of the United Nations which shall have the following functions : <p> ( a ) To assume , insofar as it considers necessary in existing circumstances , the functions given to the United Nations Mediator on Palestine by the resolution of the General Assembly of 14 May 1948 ; <p> ( b ) To carry out the specific functions and directives given to it by the present resolution and such additional functions and directives as may be given to it by the General Assembly or by the Security Council ; <p> ( c ) To undertake , upon the request of the Security Council , any of the functions now assigned to the United Nations Mediator on Palestine or to the United Nations Truce Commission by resolutions of the Security Council ; upon such request to the Conciliation Commission by the Security Council with respect to all the remaining functions of the United Nations Mediator on Palestine under Security Council resolutions , the office of the Mediator shall be terminated ; <p> 3 . Decides that a Committee of the Assembly , consisting of China , France , the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics , the United Kingdom and the United States of America , shall present , before the end of the first part of the present session of the General Assembly , for the approval of the Assembly , a proposal concerning the names of the three States which will constitute the Conciliation Commission ; <p> 4 . Requests the Commission to begin its functions at once , with a view to the establishment of contact between the parties themselves and the Commission at the earliest possible date ; <p> 5 . Calls upon the Governments and authorities concerned to extend the scope of the negotiations provided for in the Security Council 's resolution of 16 November 1948 and to seek agreement by negotiations conducted either with the Conciliation Commission or directly with a view to the final settlement of all questions outstanding between them ; <p> 6 . Instructs the Conciliation Commission to take steps to assist the Governments and authorities concerned to achieve a final settlement of all questions outstanding between them ; <p> 7 . Resolves that the Holy Places-including Nazareth-religious building and sites in Palestine should be protected and free access to them assured , in accordance with existing rights and historical practice ; that arrangements to this end should be under effective United Nations supervision ; that the United Nations Conciliation Commission , in presenting to the fourth regular session of the General Assembly its detailed proposal for a permanent international regime for the territory of Jerusalem , should include recommendations concerning the Holy Places in that territory ; that with regard to the Holy Places in the rest of Palestine the Commission should call upon the political authorities of the areas concerned to give appropriate formal guarantees as to the protection of the Holy Places and access to them ; and that these undertakings should be presented to the General Assembly for approval ; <p> 8 . Resolves that , in view of its association with three world religions , the Jerusalem area , including the present municipality of Jerusalem plus the surrounding villages and towns , the most Eastern of which shall be Avu Dis ; the most Southern , Bethlehem ; the most Western , Ein Karim ( including also the built-up area of Motsa ) ; and the most Northern , Shufat , sliould be accorded special and separate treatment from the rest of Palestine and should be placed under effective United Nations control ; <p> Requests the Security Council to take further steps to ensure the demilitarization of Jerusalem at the earliest possible date ; <p> Instructs the Conciliation Commission to present to the fourth regular session of the General Assembly detailed proposals for a permanent international regime for the Jerusalem area which will provide for the maximum local autonomy for distinctive groups consistent with the special international status of the Jerusalem area ; <p> The Conciliation Commission is authorized to appoint a United Nations representative who shall co-operate with the local authorities with respect to the interim administration of the Jerusalem area ; <p> 9 . Resolves that , pending agreement on more detailed arrangements among the Governments and authorities concerned , the freest possible access to Jerusalem by road , rail or air should be accorded to all inhabitants of Palestine ; <p> Instructs the Conciliation Commission to report immediately to the Security Council , for appropriate action by that organ , any attempt by any party to impede such access ; <p> 10 . Instructs the Conciliation Commission to seek arrangements among the Governments and authorities concerned which will facilitate the economic development of the area , including arrangements for access to ports and airfields and the use of transportation and communication facilities ; <p> 11 . Resolves that the refugees wishing to return to their homes and live at peace with their neighbours should be permitted to do so at the earliest practicable date , and that compensation should be paid or the property of those choosing not to return and for loss of or damage to property which , under principles of international law or in equity , should be made good by the Governments or authorities responsible ; <p> Instructs the Conciliation Commission to facilitate the repatriation , resettlement and economic and social rehabilitation of the refugees and the payment of compensation , and to maintain close relations with the Director of the United Nations Relief for PalestineRefugees and , through him , with the appropriate organs and agencies of the United Nations ; <p> 12 . Authorizes the Conciliation Commission to appoint such subsidiary bodies and to employ such technical experts , acting under its authority , as it may find necessary for the effective discharge of its functions and responsibilities under the present resolution ; <p> The Conciliation Commission will have its official headquarters at Jerusalem . The authorities responsible for maintaining order in Jerusalem will be responsible for taking all measures necessary to ensure the security of the Commission . The Secretary-General will provide a limited number of guards for the protection of the staff and premises of the Commission ; <p> 13 . Instructs the Conciliation Commission to render progress reports periodically to the Secretary-General for transmission to the Security Council and to the Members of the United Nations ; <p> 14 . Calls upon all Governments and authorities concerned to co-operate with the Conciliation Commission and to take all possible steps to assist in the implementation of the present resolution ; <p> 15 . Requests the Secretary-General to provide the necessary staff and facilities and to make appropriate arrangements to provide the necessary funds required in carrying out the terms of the present resolution . <h> 1967 <h> UN Security Council Resolution 242 <p> Following the June 1967 War , the UN Security Council passed Resolution 242 , requesting Israel to withdraw from " territories " it occupied in the war . At the time , the UN had two working languages , English and French . The French version of the same resolution specified " the territories " which has led to major disputes over whether this meant some or all of the territories occupied by Israel in 1967 . The resolution advocated for a just settlement of the refugee problem . <p> United Nations Security Council Meeting ( 1967 ) <h> What was mentioned ? <p> Topics : <p> Israel : 1 <p> Refugees : 1 <p> Occupation : 1 <p> United Nations : 1 <p> Missing Topics : <p> Palestine : 0 <p> Jerusalem : 0 <p> Settlements : 0 <p> Jewish : 0 <p> Countries : <p> None <h> Click to show/hide topics <p> Hover over the small text below to read the full document : <p> NOVEMBER 22 , 1967 <p> The Security Council , <p> Expressing its continuing concern with the grave situation in the Middle East , <p> Emphasizing the inadmissibility of the acquisition of territory by war and the need to work for a just and lasting peace in which every State in the area can live in security , <p> Emphasizing further that all Member States in their acceptance of the Charter of the United Nations have undertaken a commitment to act in accordance with Article 2 of the Charter , <p> Affirms that the fulfillment of Charter principles requires the establishment of a just and lasting peace in the Middle East which should include the application of both the following principles : <p> Withdrawal of Israeli armed forces from territories occupied in the recent conflict ; <p> Termination of all claims or states of belligerency and respect for and acknowledgement of the sovereignty , territorial integrity and political independence of every State in the area and their right to live in peace within secure and recognized boundaries free from threats or acts of force ; <p> Affirms further the necessity <p> For guaranteeing freedom of navigation through international waterways in the area ; <p> For achieving a just settlement of the refugee problem ; <p> For guaranteeing the territorial inviolability and political independence of every State in the area , through measures including the establishment of demilitarized zones ; <p> Requests the Secretary General to designate a Special Representative to proceed to the Middle East to establish and maintain contacts with the States concerned in order to promote agreement and assist efforts to achieve a peaceful and accepted settlement in accordance with the provisions and principles in this resolution ; <p> Requests the Secretary-General to report to the Security Council on the progress of the efforts of the Special Representative as soon as possible . <h> 1980 <h> UN Security Council Resolution 478 <p> Resolution 478 was adopted by the UN Security Council , rejecting Israel 's claim to Jerusalem as the " complete and united " capital of Israel . The resolution considered the claim illegal and a serious violation of international law . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin ( 1980 ) Castelnuovo/AP <h> What was mentioned ? <p> Topics : <p> Jerusalem : 7 <p> Israel : 6 <p> Occupation : 2 <p> United Nations : 1 <p> Missing Topics : <p> Palestine : 0 <p> Refugees : 0 <p> Settlements : 0 <p> Jewish : 0 <p> Countries : <p> United States : 1 <h> Click to show/hide topics <p> Hover over the small text below to read the full document : <p> The Security Council , Recalling its resolution 476 ( 1980 ) , Reaffirming again that the acquisition of territory by force is inadmissible , Deeply concerned over the enactment of a " basic law " in the Israeli Knesset proclaiming a change in the character and status of the Holy City of Jerusalem , with its implications for peace and security , Noting that Israel has not complied with resolution 476 ( 1980 ) , Reaffirming its determination to examine practical ways and means , in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Charter of the United Nations , to secure the full implementation of its resolution 476 ( 1980 ) , in the event of non-compliance by Israel , <p> 1 . Censures in the strongest terms the enactment by Israel of the " basic law " on Jerusalem and the refusal to comply with relevant Security Council resolutions ; <p> 2 . Affirms that the enactment of the " basic law " by Israel constitutes a violation of international law and does not affect the continued application of the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War , of 12 August 1949 , in the Palestinian and other Arab territories occupied since June 1967 , including Jerusalem ; <p> 3 . Determines that all legislative and administrative measures and actions taken by Israel , the occupying Power , which have altered or purport to alter the character and status of the Holy City of Jerusalem , and in particular the recent " basic law " on Jerusalem , are null and void and must be rescinded forthwith ; <p> 4 . Affirms also that this action constitutes a serious obstruction to achieving a comprehensive , just and lasting peace in the Middle East ; <p> 5 . Decides not to recognize the " basic law " and such other actions by Israel that , as a result of this law , seek to alter the character and status of Jerusalem and calls upon : ( a ) All Member States to accept this decision ; ( b ) Those States that have established diplomatic missions at Jerusalem to withdraw such missions from the Holy City ; <p> 6 . Requests the Secretary-General to report to the Security Council on the implementation of the present resolution before 15 November 1980 ; <p> 7 . Decides to remain seized of this serious situation . <p> Adopted at the 2245th meeting by 14 votes to none , with 1 abstention ( United States of America ) . <h> 1993 <h> Oslo Accords <p> The Oslo Accords represented the first direct Palestinian-Israeli peace agreement . In the Accords , Palestinian representatives recognised the State of Israel and its right to exist , and Israel recognised the PLO as the sole legitimate representative body of the Palestinian people , affirming their right to self-government . The accords also included the withdrawal of Israeli forces from parts of the Gaza Strip and the West Bank . Oslo was followed by many peace talks on issues regarding Palestinian refugees , Israeli settlements and Jerusalem . <h> What was mentioned ? <h> Click to show/hide topics <p> Hover over the small text below to read the full document : <h> Oslo I Accords ( 1993 ) <p> The Government of the State of Israel and the Palestinian team representing the Palestinian people agree that it is time to put an end to decades of confrontation and conflict , recognize their mutual legitimate and political rights , and strive to live in peaceful coexistence and mutual dignity and security to achieve a just , lasting and comprehensive peace settlement and historic reconciliation through the agreed political process . Accordingly , the two sides agree to the following principles . <h> Article 1 AIM OF THE NEGOTIATIONS <p> The aim of the IsraeliPalestinian negotiations within the current Middle East peace process is , among other things , to establish a Palestinian Interim Self-Government Authority , the elected Council , ( the " Council " ) for the Palestinian people in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip , for a transitional period not exceeding five years , leading to a permanent settlement based on Security Council Resolutions 242 and 338 . <p> It is understood that the interim arrangements are an integral part of the whole peace process and that the negotiations on the permanent status will lead to implementation of Security Council Resolution 242 and 338 . <h> Article II FRAMEWORK FOR THE INTERIM PERIOD <p> The agreed framework for the interim period is set in this declaration of principles . <h> Article III ELECTIONS <p> 1 . In order that the Palestinian people in the West Bank and Gaza Strip may govern themselves according to democratic principles , direct , free and general political elections will be held for the Council under agreed supervision and international observation , while Palestinian police will insure public order . <p> 2 . An agreement will be concluded on the exact mode and conditions of the elections in accordance with the protocol attached as Annex I , with the goal of holding the elections not later than nine months after the entry into force of this Declaration of Principles . <p> 3 . The elections will constitute a significant interim preparatory step toward the realization of the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people and their just requirements . <h> Article IV JURISDICTION <p> Jurisdiction of the Council will cover West Bank and Gaza territory , except for issues that will be negotiated in the permanent status negotiations . The two sides view the West Bank and Gaza Strip as a single territorial unit , whose integrity will be preserved during the interim period . <h> Article V TRANSITIONAL PERIOD AND PERMANENT STATUS NEGOTIATIONS <p> 1 . The five-year transitional period will begin upon the withdrawal from the Gaza strip and Jericho area . <p> 2 . Permanent status negotiations will commence as soon as possible , but not later than the beginning of the third year of the interim period between the Government of Israel and the Palestinian people representatives . <p> 3 . It is understood that these negotiations shall cover remaining issues , including : Jerusalem , refugees , settlements , security arrangements , border , relations and cooperation with their neighbors , and other issues of common interest . <p> 4 . The two parties agreed that the outcome of the permanent status negotiations should not be prejudiced or preempted by agreements reached for the interim period . <h> Article VI PREPARATORY TRANSFER OF POWERS AND RESPONSIBILITIES <p> 1 . Upon the entry into force of this Declaration of Principles and withdrawal from the Gaza and Jericho area , a transfer of authority from Israeli military government and its Civil Administration to the authorized Palestinians for this task , as detailed herein , will commence . This transfer of authority will be of preparatory nature until the inauguration of the Council . <p> 2 . Immediately after the entry into force of this Declaration of Principles and the withdrawal from the Gaza Strip and the Jericho area , with the view of promoting economic development in the West Bank and Gaza Strip , authority will be transferred to the Palestinians on the following spheres : education and culture , health , social welfare , direct taxation , and tourism , the Palestinian side will commence in building the Palestinian police , as agreed upon . Pending the inauguration of the Council , the two parties may negotiate the transfer of additional powers and responsibilities , as agreed upon . <h> Article VII INTERIM AGREEMENT <p> 1 . The Israeli and Palestinian delegations will negotiate an agreement on the interim period ( the " Interim Agreement " ) . <p> 2 . The Interim Agreement shall specify , among other things , the structure of the Council , the number of its members , and the transfer of powers and responsibilities from the Israeli military government and its Civil Administration to the Council . The Interim Agreement shall also specify the Council 's executive authority , legislative authority in accordance with Article IX below , and the independent Palestinian judicial organs . <p> 3 . The Interim Agreement shall include arrangements , to be implemented upon the inauguration of the Council , for the assumption by the Council of all of the powers and responsibilities transferred previously in accordance with Article VI above . <p> 4 . In order to enable the Council to promote economic growth , upon its inauguration , the Council will establish , among other things , a Palestinian Electricity Authority , a Gaza Sea Port Authority , a Palestinian Development Bank , a Palestinian Export Promotion Board , a Palestinian Environmental Authority , a Palestinian Land Authority and a Palestinian Water Administration Authority , and any other authorities agreed upon , in accordance with the Interim Agreement that will specify their powers and responsibilities . <p> 5 . After the inauguration of the Council , the Civil Administration will be dissolved , and the Israeli military government will be withdrawn . <h> Article VIII PUBLIC ORDER AND SECURITY <p> In order to guarantee public order and internal security for the Palestinians of the West Bank and Gaza Strip , the Council will establish a strong police force , while Israel will continue to carry the responsibility for defending against external threats , as well as the responsibility for overall security of Israelis for the purpose of safeguarding their internal security and public order . <h> Article IX LAWS AND MILITARY ORDERS <p> 1 . The Council will be empowered to legislate , in accordance with the Interim Agreement , within all authorities transferred to it . <p> 2 . Both parties will review jointly laws and military orders presently in force in remaining spheres . <h> Article X JOINT ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN LIAISON COMMITTEE <p> In order to provide for a smooth implementation of this Declaration of Principles and any subsequent agreements pertaining to the interim period , upon the entry into force of this Declaration of Principles , a Joint Israeli-Palestinian Liaison Committee will be established in order to deal with issues requiring coordination , other issues of common interest , and disputes . <h> Article XI ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN COOPERATION IN ECONOMIC FIELDS <p> Recognizing the mutual benefit of cooperation in promoting the development of the West Bank , the Gaza Strip and Israel , upon the entry into force of this Declaration of Principles , an Israeli- Palestinian Economic Cooperation Committee will be established in order to develop and implement in a cooperative manner the programs identified in the protocols attached as Annex III and Annex IV . <h> Article XII LIAISON AND COOPERATION WITH JORDAN AND EGYPT <p> The two parties will invite the Governments of Jordan and Egypt to participate in establishing further liaison and cooperation arrangements between the Government of Israel and the Palestinian representatives on one hand , and the Governments of Jordan and Egypt , on the other hand , to promote cooperation between them . These arrangements will include the constitution of a Continuing Committee that will decide by agreement on the modalities of admission of persons displaced from the West Bank and Gaza Strip in 1967 , together with necessary measures to prevent disruption and disorder . Other matters of common concern will be dealt with by the Committee . <h> Article XIII REDEPLOYMENT OF ISRAELI FORCES <p> 1 . After the entry into force of this Declaration of Principles , and not later than the eve of elections for the Council , a redeployment of Israeli military forces in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip will take place , in addition to withdrawal of Israeli forces carried out in accordance with Article XIV . <p> 2 . In redeploying its military forces , Israel will be guided by the principle that its military forces should be redeployed outside populated areas . <p> 3 . Further redeployments to specified location will be gradually implemented commensurate with the assumption of responsibility for public order and internal security by the Palestinian police force pursuant to Article VIII above . <h> Article XIV ISRAELI WITHDRAWAL FROM THE GAZA STRIP AND JERICHO AREA <p> Israel will withdraw from the Gaza Strip and Jericho area , as detailed in the protocol attached as Annex II . <h> Article XV RESOLUTION OF DISPUTES <p> 1 . Disputes arising out of the application or interpretation of the Declaration of Principles , or any subsequent agreements pertaining to the interim period , shall be resolved by negotiations through the Joint Liaison Committee to be tablished pursuant to Article X above . <p> 2 . Disputes which can not be settled by negotiations may be solved by a mechanism of conciliation to be agreed upon by the parties . <p> 3 . The parties may agree to submit to arbitration disputes lating to the interim period , which can not be settled through reconciliation . To this end , upon the agreement of both parties , the parties will establish an Arbitration Committee . <h> Oslo II Accords ( 1995 ) <h> Washington , DC , September 28 , 1995 <p> The Government of the State of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization ( hereinafter " the PLO " ) , the representative of the Palestinian people ; <p> PREAMBLE <p> WITHIN the framework of the Middle East peace process initiated at Madrid in October 1991 ; <p> REAFFIRMING their determination to put an end to decades of confrontation and to live in peaceful coexistence , mutual dignity and security , while recognizing their mutual legitimate and political rights ; <p> REAFFIRMING their desire to achieve a just , lasting and comprehensive peace settlement and historic reconciliation through the agreed political process ; <p> RECOGNIZING that the peace process and the new era that it has created , as well as the new relationship established between the two Parties as described above , are irreversible , and the determination of the two Parties to maintain , sustain and continue the peace process ; <p> RECOGNIZING that the aim of the Israeli-Palestinian negotiations within the current Middle East peace process is , among other things , to establish a Palestinian Interim Self-Government Authority , i.e. the elected Council ( hereinafter " the Council " or " the Palestinian Council " ) , and the elected Ra'ees of the Executive Authority , for the Palestinian people in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip , for a transitional period not exceeding five years from the date of signing the Agreement on the Gaza Strip and the Jericho Area ( hereinafter " the Gaza-Jericho Agreement " ) on May 4 , 1994 , leading to a permanent settlement based on Security Council Resolutions 242 and 338 ; <p> REAFFIRMING their understanding that the interim self-government arrangements contained in this Agreement are an integral part of the whole peace process , that the negotiations on the permanent status , that will start as soon as possible but not later than May 4 , 1996 , will lead to the implementation of Security Council Resolutions 242 and 338 , and that the Interim Agreement shall settle all the issues of the interim period and that no such issues will be deferred to the agenda of the permanent status negotiations ; <p> REAFFIRMING their adherence to the mutual recognition and commitments expressed in the letters dated September 9 , 1993 , signed by and exchanged between the Prime Minister of Israel and the Chairman of the PLO ; <p> DESIROUS of putting into effect the Declaration of Principles on Interim Self-Government Arrangements signed at Washington , DC on September 13 , 1993 , and the Agreed Minutes thereto ( hereinafter " the DOP " ) and in particular Article III and Annex I concerning the holding of direct , free and general political elections for the Council and the Ra'ees of the Executive Authority in order that the Palestinian people in the West Bank , Jerusalem and the Gaza Strip may democratically elect accountable representatives ; <p> RECOGNIZING that these elections will constitute a significant interim preparatory step toward the realization of the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people and their just requirements and will provide a democratic basis for the establishment of Palestinian institutions ; <p> REAFFIRMING their mutual commitment to act , in accordance with this Agreement , immediately , efficiently and effectively against acts or threats of terrorism , violence or incitement , whether committed by Palestinians or Israelis ; <p> FOLLOWING the Gaza-Jericho Agreement ; the Agreement on Preparatory Transfer of Powers and Responsibilities signed at Erez on August 29 , 1994 ( hereinafter " the Preparatory Transfer Agreement " ) ; and the Protocol on Further Transfer of Powers and Responsibilities signed at Cairo on August 27 , 1995 ( hereinafter " the Further Transfer Protocol " ) ; which three agreements will be superseded by this Agreement ; <p> HEREBY AGREE as follows : <h> CHAPTER 1 - THE COUNCIL <h> ARTICLE I <p> Transfer of Authority <p> Israel shall transfer powers and responsibilities as specified in this Agreement from the Israeli military government and its Civil Administration to the Council in accordance with this Agreement . Israel shall continue to exercise powers and responsibilities not so transfer . <p> Pending the inauguration of the Council , the powers and responsibilities transferred to the Council shall be exercised by the Palestinian Authority established in accordance with the Gaza-Jericho Agreement , which shall also have all the rights , liabilities and obligations to be assumed by the Council in this regard . Accordingly , the term " Council " throughout this Agreement shall , pending the inauguration of the Council , be construed as meaning the Palestinian Authority . <p> The transfer of powers and responsibilities to the police force established by the Palestinian Council in accordance with Article XIV below ( hereinafter " the Palestinian Police " ) shall be accomplished in a phased manner , as detailed in this Agreement and in the Protocol concerning Redeployment and Security Arrangements attached as Annex I to this Agreement ( hereinafter " Annex I " ) . <p> As regards the transfer and assumption of authority in civil spheres , powers and responsibilities shall be transferred and assumed as set out in the Protocol Concerning Civil Affairs attached as Annex III to this Agreement ( hereinafter " Annex III " ) . <p> After the inauguration of the Council , the Civil Administration in the West Bank will be dissolved , and the Israeli military government shall be withdrawn . The withdrawal of the military government shall not prevent it from exercising the powers and responsibilities not transferred to the Council . <p> A Joint Civil Affairs Coordination and Cooperation Committee ( hereinafter " the CAC " ) , Joint Regional Civil Affairs Subcommittees , one for the Gaza Strip and the other for the West Bank , and District Civil Liaison Offices in the West Bank shall be established in order to provide for coordination and cooperation in civil affairs between the Council and Israel , as detailed in Annex III . <p> The offices of the Council , and the offices of its Ra'ees and its Executive Authority and other committees , shall be located in areas under Palestinian territorial jurisdiction in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip . <h> ARTICLE II <p> Elections <p> In order that the Palestinian people of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip may govern themselves according to democratic principles , direct , free and general political elections will be held for the Council and the Ra'ees of the Executive Authority of the Council in accordance with the provisions set out in the Protocol concerning Elections attached as Annex II to this Agreement ( hereinafter " Annex II " ) . <p> These elections will constitute a significant interim preparatory step towards the realization of the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people and their just requirements and will provide a democratic basis for the establishment of Palestinian institutions . <p> Palestinians of Jerusalem who live there may participate in the election process in accordance with the provisions contained in this Article and in Article VI of Annex II ( Election Arrangements concerning Jerusalem ) . <p> The elections shall be called by the Chairman of the Palestinian Authority immediately following the signing of this Agreement to take place at the earliest practicable date following the redeployment of Israeli forces in accordance with Annex I , and consistent with the requirements of the election timetable as provided in Annex II , the Election Law and the Election Regulations , as defined in Article I of Annex II . <h> ARTICLE III <p> Structure of the Palestinian Council <p> The Palestinian Council and the Ra'ees of the Executive Authority of the Council constitute the Palestinian Interim Self-Government Authority , which will be elected by the Palestinian people of the West Bank , Jerusalem and the Gaza Strip for the transitional period agreed in Article I of the DOP . <p> The Council shall possess both legislative power and executive power , in accordance with Articles VII and IX of the DOP . The Council shall carry out and be responsible for all the legislative and executive powers and responsibilities transferred to it under this Agreement . The exercise of legislative powers shall be in accordance with Article XVIII of this Agreement ( Legislative Powers of the Council ) . <p> The Council and the Ra'ees of the Executive Authority of the Council shall be directly and simultaneously elected by the Palestinian people of the West Bank , Jerusalem and the Gaza Strip , in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the Election Law and Regulations , which shall not be contrary to the provisions of this Agreement . <p> The Council and the Ra'ees of the Executive Authority of the Council shall be elected for a transitional period not exceeding five years from the signing of the Gaza-Jericho Agreement on May 4 , 1994 . <p> Immediately upon its inauguration , the Council will elect from among its members a Speaker . The Speaker will preside over the meetings of the Council , administer the Council and its committees , decide on the agenda of each meeting , and lay before the Council proposals for voting and declare their results . <p> The jurisdiction of the Council shall be as determined in Article XVII of this Agreement ( Jurisdiction ) . <p> The organization , structure and functioning of the Council shall be in accordance with this Agreement and the Basic Law for the Palestinian Interim Self- Government Authority , which Law shall be adopted by the Council . The Basic Law and any regulations made under it shall not be contrary to the provisions of this Agreement . <p> The Council shall be responsible under its executive powers for the offices , services and departments transferred to it and may establish , within its jurisdiction , ministries and subordinate bodies , as necessary for the fulfillment of its responsibilities . <p> The Speaker will present for the Council 's approval proposed internal procedures that will regulate , among other things , the decision-making processes of the Council . <h> ARTICLE IV <p> Size of the Council The Palestinian Council shall be composed of 82 representatives and the Ra'ees of the Executive Authority , who will be directly and simultaneously elected by the Palestinian people of the West Bank , Jerusalem and the Gaza Strip . <h> ARTICLE V <p> The Executive Authority of the Council <p> The Council will have a committee that will exercise the executive authority of the Council , formed in accordance with paragraph 4 below ( hereinafter " the Executive Authority " ) . <p> The Executive Authority shall be bestowed with the executive authority of the Council and will exercise it on behalf of the Council . It shall determine its own internal procedures and decision making processes . <p> The Council will publish the names of the members of the Executive Authority immediately upon their initial appointment and subsequent to any changes . <p> The Ra'ees of the Executive Authority shall be an ex officio member of the Executive Authority . <p> All of the other members of the Executive Authority , except as provided in subparagraph c. below , shall be members of the Council , chosen and proposed to the Council by the Ra'ees of the Executive Authority and approved by the Council . <p> The Ra'ees of the Executive Authority shall have the right to appoint some persons , in number not exceeding twenty percent of the total membership of the Executive Authority , who are not members of the Council , to exercise executive authority and participate in government tasks . Such appointed members may not vote in meetings of the Council . <p> Non-elected members of the Executive Authority must have a valid address in an area under the jurisdiction of the Council . <h> ARTICLE VI <p> Other Committees of the Council <p> The Council may form small committees to simplify the proceedings of the Council and to assist in controlling the activity of its Executive Authority . <p> Each committee shall establish its own decision-making processes within the general framework of the organization and structure of the Council . <h> ARTICLE VII <p> Open Government <p> All meetings of the Council and of its committees , other than the Executive Authority , shall be open to the public , except upon a resolution of the Council or the relevant committee on the grounds of security , or commercial or personal confidentiality . <p> Participation in the deliberations of the Council , its committees and the Executive Authority shall be limited to their respective members only . Experts may be invited to such meetings to address specific issues on an ad hoc basis . <h> ARTICLE VIII <p> Judicial Review Any person or organization affected by any act or decision of the Ra'ees of the Executive Authority of the Council or of any member of the Executive Authority , who believes that such act or decision exceeds the authority of the Ra'ees or of such member , or is otherwise incorrect in law or procedure , may apply to the relevant Palestinian Court of Justice for a review of such activity or decision . <h> ARTICLE IX <p> Powers and Responsibilities of the Council <p> Subject to the provisions of this Agreement , the Council will , within its jurisdiction , have legislative powers as set out in Article XVIII of this Agreement , as well as executive powers . <p> The executive power of the Palestinian Council shall extend to all matters within its jurisdiction under this Agreement or any future agreement that may be reached between the two Parties during the interim period . It shall include the power to formulate and conduct Palestinian policies and to supervise their implementation , to issue any rule or regulation under powers given in approved legislation and administrative decisions necessary for the realization of Palestinian self-government , the power to employ staff , sue and be sued and conclude contracts , and the power to keep and administer registers and records of the population , and issue certificates , licenses and documents . <p> The Palestinian Council 's executive decisions and acts shall be consistent with the provisions of this Agreement . <p> The Palestinian Council may adopt all necessary measures in order to enforce the law and any of its decisions , and bring proceedings before the Palestinian courts and tribunals . <p> In accordance with the DOP , the Council will not have powers and responsibilities in the sphere of foreign relations , which sphere includes the establishment abroad of embassies , consulates or other types of foreign missions and posts or permitting their establishment in the West Bank or the Gaza Strip , the appointment of or admission of diplomatic and consular staff , and the exercise of diplomatic functions . <p> Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph , the PLO may conduct negotiations and sign agreements with states or international organizations for the benefit of the Council in the following cases only : <p> economic agreements , as specifically provided in Annex V of this Agreement ; <p> agreements with donor countries for the purpose of implementing arrangements for the provision of assistance to the Council ; <p> agreements for the purpose of implementing the regional development plans detailed in Annex IV of the DOP or in agreements entered into in the framework of the multilateral negotiations ; and <p> cultural , scientific and educational agreements . <p> Dealings between the Council and representatives of foreign states and international organizations , as well as the establishment in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip of representative offices other than those described in subparagraph 5. a above , for the purpose of implementing the agreements referred to in subparagraph 5. b above , shall not be considered foreign relations . Subject to the provisions of this Agreement , the Council shall , within its jurisdiction , have an independent judicial system composed of independent Palestinian courts and tribunals . <h> CHAPTER 2 - REDEPLOYMENT AND SECURITY ARRANGEMENTS <h> ARTICLE X <p> Redeployment of Israeli Military Forces <p> The first phase of the Israeli military forces redeployment will cover populated areas in the West Bank - cities , towns , villages , refugee camps and hamlets - as set out in Annex I , and will be completed prior to the eve of the Palestinian elections , i.e. , 22 days before the day of the elections . <p> Further redeployments of Israeli military forces to specified military locations will commence after the inauguration of the Council and will be gradually implemented commensurate with the assumption of responsibility for public order and internal security by the Palestinian Police , to be completed within 18 months from the date of the inauguration of the Council as detailed in Articles XI ( Land ) and XIII ( Security ) , below and in Annex I. <p> The Palestinian Police shall be deployed and shall assume responsibility for public order and internal security for Palestinians in a phased manner in accordance with Article XIII ( Security ) below and Annex I. <p> Israel shall continue to carry the responsibility for external security , as well as the responsibility for overall security of Israelis for the purpose of safeguarding their internal security and public order . <p> For the purpose of this Agreement , " Israeli military forces " includes Israel Police and other Israeli security forces . <h> ARTICLE XI <p> Land <p> The two sides view the West Bank and the Gaza Strip as a single territorial unit , the integrity and status of which will be preserved during the interim period . <p> The two sides agree that West Bank and Gaza Strip territory , except for issues that will be negotiated in the permanent status negotiations , will come under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Council in a phased manner , to be completed within 18 months from the date of the inauguration of the Council , as specified below : <p> Land in populated areas ( Areas A and B ) , including government and Al Waqf land , will come under the jurisdiction of the Council during the first phase of redeployment . <p> All civil powers and responsibilities , including planning and zoning , in Areas A and B , set out in Annex III , will be transferred to and assumed by the Council during the first phase of redeployment . <p> In Area C , during the first phase of redeployment Israel will transfer to the Council civil powers and responsibilities not relating to territory , as set out in Annex III . <p> The further redeployments of Israeli military forces to specified military locations will be gradually implemented in accordance with the DOP in three phases , each to take place after an interval of six months , after the inauguration of the Council , to be completed within 18 months from the date of the inauguration of the Council . <p> During the further redeployment phases to be completed within 18 months from the date of the inauguration of the Council , powers and responsibilities relating to territory will be transferred gradually to Palestinian jurisdiction that will cover West Bank and Gaza Strip territory , except for the issues that will be negotiated in the permanent status negotiations . <p> The specified military locations referred to in Article X , paragraph 2 above will be determined in the further redeployment phases , within the specified time-frame ending not later than 18 months from the date of the inauguration of the Council , and will be negotiated in the permanent status negotiations . <p> MAP 1 <p> For the purpose of this Agreement and until the completion of the first phase of the further redeployments : <p> " Area A " means the populated areas delineated by a red line and shaded in brown on attached map No. 1 ; <p> " Area B " means the populated areas delineated by a red line and shaded in yellow on attached map No. 1 , and the built-up area of the hamlets listed in Appendix 6 to Annex I ; and <p> " Area C " means areas of the West Bank outside Areas A and B , which , except for the issues that will be negotiated in the permanent status negotiations , will be gradually transferred to Palestinian jurisdiction in accordance with this Agreement . <h> ARTICLE XII <p> Arrangements for Security and Public Order <p> In order to guarantee public order and internal security for the Palestinians of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip , the Council shall establish a strong police force as set out in Article XIV below . Israel shall continue to carry the responsibility for defense against external threats , including the responsibility for protecting the Egyptian and Jordanian borders , and for defense against external threats from the sea and from the air , as well as the responsibility for overall security of Israelis and Settlements , for the purpose of safeguarding their internal security and public order , and will have all the powers to take the steps necessary to meet this responsibility . <p> A Joint Coordination and Cooperation Committee for Mutual Security Purposes ( hereinafter " the JSC " ) , as well as Joint Regional Security Committees ( hereinafter " RSCs " ) and Joint District Coordination Offices ( hereinafter " DCOs " ) , are hereby established as provided for in Annex I. <p> The security arrangements provided for in this Agreement and in Annex I may be reviewed at the request of either Party and may be amended by mutual agreement of the Parties . Specific review arrangements are included in Annex I. <p> For the purpose of this Agreement , " the Settlements " means , in the West Bank - the settlements in Area C ; and in the Gaza Strip - the Gush Katif and Erez settlement areas , as well as the other settlements in the Gaza Strip , as shown on attached map No. 2 . <h> ARTICLE XIII <p> Security <p> The Council will , upon completion of the redeployment of Israeli military forces in each district , as set out in Appendix 1 to Annex I , assume the powers and responsibilities for internal security and public order in Area A in that district . <p> There will be a complete redeployment of Israeli military forces from Area B. Israel will transfer to the Council and the Council will assume responsibility for public order for Palestinians . Israel shall have the overriding responsibility for security for the purpose of protecting Israelis and confronting the threat of terrorism . <p> In Area B the Palestinian Police shall assume the responsibility for public order for Palestinians and shall be deployed in order to accommodate the Palestinian needs and requirements in the following manner : <p> The Palestinian Police shall establish 25 police stations and posts in towns , villages , and other places listed in Appendix 2 to Annex I and as delineated on map No. 3 . The West Bank RSC may agree on the establishment of additional police stations and posts , if required . <p> The Palestinian Police shall be responsible for handling public order incidents in which only Palestinians are involved . The Palestinian Police shall operate freely in populated places where police stations and posts are located , as set out in paragraph b(1) above . While the movement of uniformed Palestinian policemen in Area B outside places where there is a Palestinian police station or post will be carried out after coordination and confirmation through the relevant DCO , three months after the completion of redeployment from Area B , the DCOs may decide that movement of Palestinian policemen from the police stations in Area B to Palestinian towns and villages in Area B on roads that are used only by Palestinian traffic will take place after notifying the DCO . <p> The coordination of such planned movement prior to confirmation through the relevant DCO shall include a scheduled plan , including the number of policemen , as well as the type and number of weapons and vehicles intended to take part . It shall also include details of arrangements for ensuring continued coordination through appropriate communication links , the exact schedule of movement to the area of the planned operation , including the destination and routes thereto , its proposed duration and the schedule for returning to the police station or post . <p> The Israeli side of the DCO will provide the Palestinian side with its response , following a request for movement of policemen in accordance with this paragraph , in normal or routine cases within one day and in emergency cases no later than 2 hours . <p> The Palestinian Police and the Israeli military forces will conduct joint security activities on the main roads as set out in Annex 1 . <p> The Palestinian Police will notify the West Bank RSC of the names of the policemen , number plates of police vehicles and serial numbers of weapons , with respect to each police station and post in Area B. <p> Further redeployments from Area C and transfer of internal security responsibility to the Palestinian Police in Areas B and C will be carried out in three phases , each to take place after an interval of six months , to be completed 18 months after the inauguration of the Council , except for the issues of permanent status negotiations and of Israel 's overall responsibility for Israelis and borders . <p> The procedures detailed in this paragraph will be reviewed within six months of the completion of the first phase of redeployment <h> ARTICLE XIV <p> The Palestinian Police <p> The Council shall establish a strong police force . The duties , functions , structure , deployment and composition of the Palestinian Police , together with provisions regarding its equipment and operation , as well as rules of conduct , are set out in Annex I. <p> The Palestinian police force established under the Gaza-Jericho Agreement will be fully integrated into the Palestinian Police and will be subject to the provisions of this Agreement <p> Except for the Palestinian Police and the Israeli military forces , no other armed forces shall be established or operate in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip . <p> Except for the arms , ammunition and equipment of the Palestinian Police described in Annex I , and those of the Israeli military forces , no organization , group or individual in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip shall manufacture , sell , acquire , possess , import or otherwise introduce into the West Bank or the Gaza Strip any firearms , ammunition , weapons , explosives , gunpowder or any related equipment , unless otherwise provided for in Annex I. <h> ARTICLE XV <p> Prevention of Hostile Acts <p> Both sides shall take all measures necessary in order to prevent acts of terrorism , crime and hostilities directed against each other , against individuals falling under the other 's authority and against their property , and shall take legal measures against offenders . <p> Specific provisions for the implementation of this Article are set out in Annex I. <h> ARTICLE XVI <p> Confidence Building Measures With a view to fostering a positive and supportive public atmosphere to accompany the implementation of this Agreement , to establish a solid basis of mutual trust and good faith , and in order to facilitate the anticipated cooperation and new relations between the two peoples , both Parties agree to carry out confidence building measures as detailed herewith : <p> Israel will release or turn over to the Palestinian side , Palestinian detainees and prisoners , residents of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip . The first stage of release of these prisoners and detainees will take place on the signing of this Agreement and the second stage will take place prior to the date of the elections . There will be a third stage of release of detainees and prisoners . Detainees and prisoners will be released from among categories detailed in Annex VII ( Release of Palestinian Prisoners and Detainees ) . Those released will be free to return to their homes in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip . <p> Palestinians who have maintained contact with the Israeli authorities will not be subjected to acts of harassment , violence , retribution or prosecution . Appropriate ongoing measures will be taken , in coordination with Israel , in order to ensure their protection . <p> Palestinians from abroad whose entry into the West Bank and the Gaza Strip is approved pursuant to this Agreement , and to whom the provisions of this Article are applicable , will not be prosecuted for offenses committed prior to September 13 , 1993 . <h> CHAPTER 3 - LEGAL AFFAIRS <h> ARTICLE XVII <p> Jurisdiction <p> In accordance with the DOP , the jurisdiction of the Council will cover West Bank and Gaza Strip territory as a single territorial unit , except for : issues that will be negotiated in the permanent status negotiations : Jerusalem , settlements , specified military locations , Palestinianrefugees , borders , foreign relations and Israelis ; and powers and responsibilities not transferred to the Council . <p> Accordingly , the authority of the Council encompasses all matters that fall within its territorial , functional and personal jurisdiction , as follows <p> The territorial jurisdiction of the Council shall encompass Gaza Strip territory , except for the Settlements and the Military Installation Area shown on map No. 2 , and West Bank territory , except for Area C which , except for the issues that will be negotiated in the permanent status negotiations , will be gradually transferred to Palestinian jurisdiction in three phases , each to take place after an interval of six months , to be completed 18 months after the inauguration of the Council . At this time , the jurisdiction of the Council will cover West Bank and Gaza Strip territory , except for the issues that will be negotiated in the permanent status negotiations . <p> Territorial jurisdiction includes land , subsoil and territorial waters , in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement . <p> The functional jurisdiction of the Council extends to all powers and responsibilities transferred to the Council , as specified in this Agreement or in any future agreements that may be reached between the Parties during the interim period . <p> The territorial and functional jurisdiction of the Council will apply to all persons , except for Israelis , unless otherwise provided in this Agreement . <p> Notwithstanding subparagraph a. above , the Council shall have functional jurisdiction in Area C , as detailed in Article IV of Annex III . <p> The Council has , within its authority , legislative , executive and judicial powers and responsibilities , as provided for in this Agreement . <p> Israel , through its military government , has the authority over areas that are not under the territorial jurisdiction of the Council , powers and responsibilities not transferred to the Council and Israelis . <p> To this end , the Israeli military government shall retain the necessary legislative , judicial and executive powers and responsibilities , in accordance with international law . This provision shall not derogate from Israel 's applicable legislation over Israelis in personam . <p> The exercise of authority with regard to the electromagnetic sphere and air space shall be in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement . <p> Without derogating from the provisions of this Article , legal arrangements detailed in the Protocol Concerning Legal Matters attached as Annex IV to this Agreement ( hereinafter " Annex IV " ) shall be observed . Israel and the Council may negotiate further legal arrangements . <p> Israel and the Council shall cooperate on matters of legal assistance in criminal and civil matters through a legal committee ( hereinafter " the Legal Committee " ) , hereby established . <p> The Council 's jurisdiction will extend gradually to cover West Bank and Gaza Strip territory , except for the issues to be negotiated in the permanent status negotiations , through a series of redeployments of the Israeli military forces . The first phase of the redeployment of Israeli military forces will cover populated areas in the West Bank - cities , towns , refugee camps and hamlets , as set out in Annex I - and will be completed prior to the eve of the Palestinian elections , i.e. 22 days before the day of the elections . Further redeployments of Israeli military forces to specified military locations will commence immediately upon the inauguration of the Council and will be effected in three phases , each to take place after an interval of six months , to be concluded no later than eighteen months from the date of the inauguration of the Council . <h> ARTICLE XVIII <p> Legislative Powers of the Council <p> For the purposes of this Article , legislation shall mean any primary and secondary legislation , including basic laws , laws , regulations and other legislative acts . <p> The Council has the power , within its jurisdiction as defined in Article XVII of this Agreement , to adopt legislation . <p> While the primary legislative power shall lie in the hands of the Council as a whole , the Ra'ees of the Executive Authority of the Council shall have the following legislative powers : the power to initiate legislation or to present proposed legislation to the Council ; the power to promulgate legislation adopted by the Council ; and the power to issue secondary legislation , including regulations , relating to any matters specified and within the scope laid down in any primary legislation adopted by the Council . <p> Legislation , including legislation which amends or abrogates existing laws or military orders , which exceeds the jurisdiction of the Council or which is otherwise inconsistent with the provisions of the DOP , this Agreement , or of any other agreement that may be reached between the two sides during the interim period , shall have no effect and shall be void ab initio . <p> The Ra'ees of the Executive Authority of the Council shall not promulgate legislation adopted by the Council if such legislation falls under the provisions of this paragraph . <p> All legislation shall be communicated to the Israeli side of the Legal Committee . <p> Without derogating from the provisions of paragraph 4 above , the Israeli side of the Legal Committee may refer for the attention of the Committee any legislation regarding which Israel considers the provisions of paragraph 4 apply , in order to discuss issues arising from such legislation . The Legal Committee will consider the legislation referred to it at the earliest opportunity . <h> ARTICLE XIX <p> Human Rights and the Rule of Law Israel and the Council shall exercise their powers and responsibilities pursuant to this Agreement with due regard to internationally-accepted norms and principles of human rights and the rule of law . <h> ARTICLE XX <p> Rights , Liabilities and Obligations <p> The transfer of powers and responsibilities from the Israeli military government and its civil administration to the Council , as detailed in Annex III , includes all related rights , liabilities and obligations arising with regard to acts or omissions which occurred prior to such transfer . Israel will cease to bear any financial responsibility regarding such acts or omissions and the Council will bear all financial responsibility for these and for its own functioning . <p> Any financial claim made in this regard against Israel will be referred to the Council . <p> Israel shall provide the Council with the information it has regarding pending and anticipated claims brought before any court or tribunal against Israel in this regard . <p> Where legal proceedings are brought in respect of such a claim , Israel will notify the Council and enable it to participate in defending the claim and raise any arguments on its behalf . <p> In the event that an award is made against Israel by any court or tribunal in respect of such a claim , the Council shall immediately reimburse Israel the full amount of the award . <p> Without prejudice to the above , where a court or tribunal hearing such a claim finds that liability rests solely with an employee or agent who acted beyond the scope of the powers assigned to him or her , unlawfully or with willful malfeasance , the Council shall not bear financial responsibility . <p> Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1. d through 1. f above , each side may take the necessary measures , including promulgation of legislation , in order to ensure that such claims by Palestinians , including pending claims in which the hearing of evidence has not yet begun , are brought only before Palestinian courts or tribunals in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip , and are not brought before or heard by Israeli courts or tribunals . <p> Where a new claim has been brought before a Palestinian court or tribunal subsequent to the dismissal of the claim pursuant to subparagraph a. above , the Council shall defend it and , in accordance with subparagraph 1. a above , in the event that an award is made for the plaintiff , shall pay the amount of the award . <p> The Legal Committee shall agree on arrangements for the transfer of all materials and information needed to enable the Palestinian courts or tribunals to hear such claims as referred to in subparagraph b. above , and , when necessary , for the provision of legal assistance by Israel to the Council in defending such claims . The transfer of authority in itself shall not affect rights , liabilities and obligations of any person or legal entity , in existence at the date of signing of this Agreement . <p> The Council , upon its inauguration , will assume all the rights , liabilities and obligations of the Palestinian Authority . <p> For the purpose of this Agreement , " Israelis " also includes Israeli statutory agencies and corporations registered in Israel . <h> ARTICLE XXI <p> Settlement of Differences and Disputes Any difference relating to the application of this Agreement shall be referred to the appropriate coordination and cooperation mechanism established under this Agreement . The provisions of Article XV of the DOP shall apply to any such difference which is not settled through the appropriate coordination and cooperation mechanism , namely : <p> Disputes arising out of the application or interpretation of this Agreement or any related agreements pertaining to the interim period shall be settled through the Liaison Committee . Disputes which can not be settled by negotiations may be settled by a mechanism of conciliation to be agreed between the Parties . <p> The Parties may agree to submit to arbitration disputes relating to the interim period , which can not be settled through conciliation . To this end , upon the agreement of both Parties , the Parties will establish an Arbitration Committee . <h> CHAPTER 4 - COOPERATION <h> ARTICLE XXII <p> Relations between Israel and the Council <p> Israel and the Council shall seek to foster mutual understanding and tolerance and shall accordingly abstain from incitement , including hostile propaganda , against each other and , without derogating from the principle of freedom of expression , shall take legal measures to prevent such incitement by any organizations , groups or individuals within their jurisdiction . <p> Israel and the Council will ensure that their respective educational systems contribute to the peace between the Israeli and Palestinian peoples and to peace in the entire region , and will refrain from the introduction of any motifs that could adversely affect the process of reconciliation . <p> Without derogating from the other provisions of this Agreement , Israel and the Council shall cooperate in combating criminal activity which may affect both sides , including offenses related to trafficking in illegal drugs and psychotropic substances , smuggling , and offenses against property , including offenses related to vehicles . <h> ARTICLE XXIII <p> Cooperation with Regard to Transfer of Powers and Responsibilities In order to ensure a smooth , peaceful and orderly transfer of powers and responsibilities , the two sides will cooperate with regard to the transfer of security powers and responsibilities in accordance with the provisions of Annex I , and the transfer of civil powers and responsibilities in accordance with the provisions of Annex III . <h> ARTICLE XXIV <p> Economic Relations The economic relations between the two sides are set out in the Protocol on Economic Relations , signed in Paris on April 29 , 1994 , and the Appendices thereto , and the Supplement to the Protocol on Economic Relations , all attached as Annex V , and will be governed by the relevant provisions of this Agreement and its Annexes . <h> ARTICLE XXV <p> Cooperation Programs <p> The Parties agree to establish a mechanism to develop programs of cooperation between them . Details of such cooperation are set out in Annex VI . <p> A Standing Cooperation Committee to deal with issues arising in the context of this cooperation is hereby established as provided for in Annex VI . <h> ARTICLE XXVI <p> The Joint Israeli-Palestinian Liaison Committee <p> The Liaison Committee established pursuant to Article X of the DOP shall ensure the smooth implementation of this Agreement . It shall deal with issues requiring coordination , other issues of common interest and disputes . <p> The Liaison Committee shall be composed of an equal number of members from each Party . It may add other technicians and experts as necessary . <p> The Liaison Committee shall adopt its rules of procedures , including the frequency and place or places of its meetings . <p> The Liaison Committee shall reach its decisions by agreement . <p> The Liaison Committee shall establish a subcommittee that will monitor and steer the implementation of this Agreement ( hereinafter " the Monitoring and Steering Committee " ) . It will function as follows : <p> The Monitoring and Steering Committee will , on an ongoing basis , monitor the implementation of this Agreement , with a view to enhancing the cooperation and fostering the peaceful relations between the two sides . <p> The Monitoring and Steering Committee will steer the activities of the various joint committees established in this Agreement ( the JSC , the CAC , the Legal Committee , the Joint Economic Committee and the Standing Cooperation Committee ) concerning the ongoing implementation of the Agreement , and will report to the Liaison Committee . <p> The Monitoring and Steering Committee will be composed of the heads of the various committees mentioned above . <p> The two heads of the Monitoring and Steering Committee will establish its rules of procedures , including the frequency and places of its meetings . <h> ARTICLE XXVII <p> Liaison and Cooperation with Jordan and Egypt <p> Pursuant to Article XII of the DOP , the two Parties have invited the Governments of Jordan and Egypt to participate in establishing further liaison and cooperation arrangements between the Government of Israel and the Palestinian representatives on the one hand , and the Governments of Jordan and Egypt on the other hand , to promote cooperation between them . As part of these arrangements a Continuing Committee has been constituted and has commenced its deliberations . <p> The Continuing Committee shall decide by agreement on the modalities of admission of persons displaced from the West Bank and the Gaza Strip in 1967 , together with necessary measures to prevent disruption and disorder . <p> The Continuing Committee shall also deal with other matters of common concern . <h> ARTICLE XXVIII <p> Missing Persons <p> Israel and the Council shall cooperate by providing each other with all necessary assistance in the conduct of searches for missing persons and bodies of persons which have not been recovered , as well as by providing information about missing persons . <p> The PLO undertakes to cooperate with Israel and to assist it in its efforts to locate and to return to IsraelIsraeli soldiers who are missing in action and the bodies of soldiers which have not been recovered . <h> CHAPTER 5 - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS <h> ARTICLE XXIX <p> Safe Passage between the West Bank and the Gaza Strip Arrangements for safe passage of persons and transportation between the West Bank and the Gaza Strip are set out in Annex I. <h> ARTICLE XXX <p> Passages Arrangements for coordination between Israel and the Council regarding passage to and from Egypt and Jordan , as well as any other agreed international crossings , are set out in Annex I. <h> ARTICLE XXXI <p> Final Clauses <p> This Agreement shall enter into force on the date of its signing . <p> The Gaza-Jericho Agreement , the Preparatory Transfer Agreement and the Further Transfer Protocol will be superseded by this Agreement . <p> The Council , upon its inauguration , shall replace the Palestinian Authority and shall assume all the undertakings and obligations of the Palestinian Authority under the Gaza-Jericho Agreement , the Preparatory Transfer Agreement , and the Further Transfer Protocol . <p> The two sides shall pass all necessary legislation to implement this Agreement . Permanent status negotiations will commence as soon as possible , but not later than May 4 , 1996 , between the Parties . It is understood that these negotiations shall cover remaining issues , including : Jerusalem , refugees , settlements , security arrangements , borders , relations and cooperation with other neighbors , and other issues of common interest . <p> Nothing in this Agreement shall prejudice or preempt the outcome of the negotiations on the permanent status to be conducted pursuant to the DOP . Neither Party shall be deemed , by virtue of having entered into this Agreement , to have renounced or waived any of its existing rights , claims or positions . <p> Neither side shall initiate or take any step that will change the status of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip pending the outcome of the permanent status negotiations . <p> The two Parties view the West Bank and the Gaza Strip as a single territorial unit , the integrity and status of which will be preserved during the interim period . <p> The PLO undertakes that , within two months of the date of the inauguration of the Council , the Palestinian National Council will convene and formally approve the necessary changes in regard to the Palestinian Covenant , as undertaken in the letters signed by the Chairman of the PLO and addressed to the Prime Minister of Israel , dated September 9 , 1993 and May 4 , 1994 . <p> Pursuant to Annex I , Article IX of this Agreement , Israel confirms that the permanent checkpoints on the roads leading to and from the Jericho Area ( except those related to the access road leading from Mousa Alami to the Allenby Bridge ) will be removed upon the completion of the first phase of redeployment . <p> Prisoners who , pursuant to the Gaza-Jericho Agreement , were turned over to the Palestinian Authority on the condition that they remain in the Jericho Area for the remainder of their sentence , will be free to return to their homes in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip upon the completion of the first phase of redeployment . <p> As regards relations between Israel and the PLO , and without derogating from the commitments contained in the letters signed by and exchanged between the Prime Minister of Israel and the Chairman of the PLO , dated September 9 , 1993 and May 4 , 1994 , the two sides will apply between them the provisions contained in Article XXII , paragraph 1 , with the necessary changes . <p> The Preamble to this Agreement , and all Annexes , Appendices and maps attached hereto , shall constitute an integral part hereof . <p> The Parties agree that the maps attached to the Gaza-Jericho Agreement as : map No. 1 ( The Gaza Strip ) , an exact copy of which is attached to this Agreement as map No. 2 ( in this Agreement " map No. 2 " ) ; <p> map No. 4 ( Deployment of Palestinian Police in the Gaza Strip ) , an exact copy of which is attached to this Agreement as map No. 5 ( in this Agreement " map No. 5 " ) ; and <p> map No. 6 ( Maritime Activity Zones ) , an exact copy of which is attached to this Agreement as map No. 8 ( in this Agreement " map No. 8 " ) ; are an integral part hereof and will remain in effect for the duration of this Agreement <p> While the Jeftlik area will come under the functional and personal jurisdiction of the Council in the first phase of redeployment , the area 's transfer to the territorial jurisdiction of the Council will be considered by the Israeli side in the first phase of the further redeployment phases . <p> Done at Washington DC , this 28th day of September , 1995 . <p> Yitzhak Rabin - For the Government of the State of Israel <p> Yasser Arafat - For the PLO <p> Witnessed by : <p> Bill Clinton <p> The United States of America <p> The Russian Federation <p> The Arab Republic of Egypt <p> The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan <p> The Kingdom of Norway <p> The European Union <h> 2002 <h> Arab Peace Initiative <p> The Arab Peace Initiative was a Saudi-led initiative to end the Arab-Israeli conflict . The initiative called for a complete withdrawal from the occupied Arab territories , reaching a just solution to the issue of Palestinian refugees , and accepting the establishment of an independent and sovereign Palestinian state . In turn , the Arabs would consider the Arab-Israeli conflict over , sign a peace agreement with Israel , and establish normal relations with Israel . <p> Saudi Arabian Crown Prince Abdullah ( 2002 ) Santiago Lyon/AP <h> What was mentioned ? <p> Topics : <p> Israel : 9 <p> Occupation : 4 <p> Palestine : 2 <p> Jerusalem : 2 <p> United Nations : 2 <p> Refugees : 1 <p> Missing Topics : <p> Settlements : 0 <p> Jewish : 0 <p> Countries : <p> Lebanon : 1 <p> Russia : 1 <p> Saudi Arabia : 1 <p> Syria : 1 <p> United States : 1 <h> Click to show/hide topics <p> Hover over the small text below to read the full document : <p> The Arab Peace Initiative <p> The Council of the League of Arab States at the Summit Level , at its 14th Ordinary Session , Reaffirms the resolution taken in June 1996 at the Cairo extraordinary Arab summit that a just and comprehensive peace in the Middle East is the strategic option of the Arab countries , to be achieved in accordance with international legality , and which would require a comparable commitment on the part of the Israeli government . <p> Having listened to the statement made by his royal highness Prince Abdullah Bin Abdullaziz , the crown prince of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in which his highness presented his initiative , calling for full Israeli withdrawal from all the Arab territories occupied since June 1967 , in implementation of Security Council Resolutions 242 and 338 , reaffirmed by the Madrid Conference of 1991 and the land for peace principle , and Israel 's acceptance of an independent Palestinian state , with East Jerusalem as its capital , in return for the establishment of normal relations in the context of a comprehensive peace with Israel . <p> Emanating from the conviction of the Arab countries that a military solution to the conflict will not achieve peace or provide security for the parties , the council : <p> 1 . Requests Israel to reconsider its policies and declare that a just peace is its strategic option as well . <p> 2 . Further calls upon Israel to affirm : a . Full Israeli withdrawal from all the territories occupied since 1967 , including the Syrian Golan Heights to the lines of June 4 , 1967 as well as the remaining occupied Lebanese territories in the south of Lebanon . b . Achievement of a just solution to the Palestinianrefugee problem to be agreed upon in accordance with U.N . General Assembly Resolution 194. c . The acceptance of the establishment of a Sovereign Independent Palestinian State on the Palestinian territories occupied since the 4th of June 1967 in the West Bank and Gaza strip , with east Jerusalem as its capital . <p> 3 . Consequently , the Arab countries affirm the following : a . Consider the Arab-Israeli conflict ended , and enter into a peace agreement with Israel , and provide security for all the states of the region . b . Establish normal relations with Israel in the context of this comprehensive peace . <p> 4 . Assures the rejection of all forms of Palestinian patriation which conflict with the special circumstances of the Arab host countries . <p> 5 . Calls upon the government of Israel and all Israelis to accept this initiative in order to safeguard the prospects for peace and stop the further shedding of blood , enabling the Arab Countries and Israel to live in peace and good neighborliness and provide future generations with security , stability , and prosperity . <p> 6 . Invites the international community and all countries and organizations to support this initiative . <p> 7 . Requests the chairman of the summit to form a special committee composed of some of its concerned member states and the secretary general of the League of Arab States to pursue the necessary contacts to gain support for this initiative at all levels , particularly from the United Nations , the security council , the United States of America , the Russian Federation , the Muslim States and the European Union . <p> What do you think of Trump 's new plan ? <h> ALSO READ <h> Podcast : A ' Swiss cheese state ' , a ' peace ' plan and a Palestinian POV. 
@@31716743 <p> Ever since United States President Donald Trump tasked his boy genius , Jared Kushner , with bringing peace to the Middle East , he has been a man on a mission - or perhaps more accurately , a man-boy on a mission impossible . <p> Whenever he has not been busy reinventing the US government , overseeing its major trade agreements , supervising Trump 's presidential campaign , and fighting the coronavirus epidemic , Kushner has focused on resolving the century-old conflict in Palestine . <p> With little time and little interest in the complicated diplomacy needed to reach a fair solution , he has instead imposed his own preferred solution - or more accurately - that of his mentor , Israel 's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , which will certainly deepen the apartheid regime in Palestine . <p> But Kushner has dismissed the notion of apartheid just as he has dismissed the coronavirus as " more about public psychology " than an actual reality . <p> No wonder then , the ridiculously dubbed " deal of the century " ( DoC ) has been losing steam and momentum . <p> But Kushner remains adamant . <p> He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coerce them into supporting his " peace scam " and embracing Israel , despite its occupation of Palestine . <p> However , with mounting regional crises , falling oil prices , and a persistent Israeli political deadlock , after three elections within a year , can the sedulous Kushner save the deal in a US election year ? <h> Quid pro quo <p> Aside from being investigated for benefitting financially from relations with Gulf countries , Kushner has been promising US support to Arab leaders in return for meeting with Netanyahu and supporting the DoC . <p> Although such quid pro quo practices in the White House have gained notoriety and in fact , Congress impeached Trump over one such incident , they remain a fixture in US Middle East policy . <p> The Trump administration has reportedly shown readiness to side with Egypt in its dispute with Ethiopia over the Renaissance dam being built on the Nile River in return for President Abdelfattah el-Sisi 's support for the DoC . <p> Kushner has also enticed Sisi promising some $9bnout of the proposed $50bn dedicated to luring , not to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders into supporting his scam of a plan . <p> As Trump 's " favourite dictator " , Sisi has welcomed the plan and " appreciated " the US effort , while also assuring the Palestinians of Egypt 's continued support , just in rhetoric . <p> A similar approach was tried on the new rulers of Sudan , who have been desperate to rid themselves of international sanctions , which were imposed on the previous regime of Omar al-Bashir . <p> To that end , Abdel Fattah al-Burhan , Sudan 's de facto leader and chairman of the Transitional Military Council , was encouraged by Washington and Abu Dhabi to meet Netanyahu and " set the stage for the normalisation of ties " in order to " protect the national security of Sudan " . <p> He did . Over lunch . In Uganda . <p> A month later , Sudan Central Bank announced that US sanctions on 157 companies had been lifted . <p> Netanyahu has also reportedly tried to entice Morocco 's King Mohammad VI with Israeli and US recognition of Moroccan sovereignty over the disputed territory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in support of the DoC . <p> But nowhere have Kushner and Netanyahu been more eager than in rapprochement with the Gulf region in order to facilitate a new pact against Iran , albeit at the expense of Palestine . <p> The UAE has consistently facilitated Kushner 's moves , while Bahrain hosted the DoC 's first economic forum last year . Also Oman 's late leader , Sultan Qaboos , hosted Netanyahu in Muscat last year , while Qatar has maintained contacts with Israel , albeit mainly to mediate with Hamas over the humanitarian crisis in Gaza . <p> But for Kushner and Netanyahu , the big prize has always been Saudi Arabia . <h> The big catch <p> Netanyahu 's and Mohammad bin Salman 's ( MBS ) shared hatred for former US President Barack Obama and their deep love for Trump , made it easier for Kushner to court the Saudi Crown Prince on Israel 's behalf . <p> So much so that it was difficult at times to discern who is courting whom . <p> But it was never going to be easy for Saudi Arabia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Islamic world , to normalise relations with an expansionist Israel that insists on controlling all of Jerusalem , Al Quds - the sacred one . <p> That is why Kushner , with the help of Secretary of State Mike Pompeo , organised a shambolic international conference on the Middle East in Warsaw early last year , with the main objective of bringing Netanyahu closer to Arab and Gulf officials . <p> The Saudi regime began to normalise the idea of " normalisation with Israel ' within Saudi society , punishing those who opposed it and rewarding those who cheered it . <p> Riyadh has also opened secret channels to Israel and cracked down on Hamas sympathisers in the kingdom , putting some on trial for " supporting terrorism " . <p> MBS has been in favour of Arab recognition of Israel and pressured the Palestinian leadership into accepting whatever is on offer by the Trump administration ; in other words , they must keep up or shut up . <p> These steps have been met with a nod of approval from Kushner &amp; co , but they want more . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ <p> They reckon MBS needs Washington 's support more than ever considering his never-ending screw-ups , the falling oil prices , and his eagerness to become king before the end of the year . <p> And they are trying to convince him that the time is now , considering the possible alternatives - Bernie Sanders detests Saudi leaders , whom he considers " murderous thugs " , and Joe Biden wishes to reinstate the nuclear deal with Iran at the expense of the " deal of the century " . <h> Trump White House at the service of Israel <p> As long as Trump is president , expect Kushner 's cynical abuse of American power to continue advancing the interests of Netanyahu 's " greater Israel " , which if history is any guide , will backfire on the US . <p> It also feeds into anti-Semitism and to despicable notions of a global Jewish conspiracy , complicity and control . <p> It is no secret that some Middle Eastern , indeed world leaders , assume that improving relations with Israel automatically translates into better relations with Washington , thanks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its influential lobby . <p> Netanyahu has never discouraged such thinking . In fact , he encouraged it . <p> Never has Israeli influence over a US government been so scandalous as it has been under its current lying , corrupt , fraudulent , and undeserving prime minister . <p> Kushner &amp; co are exploiting the vulnerabilities of Arab autocrats and encouraging their vindictiveness towards their detractors to benefit Netanyahu . They are rewarding bloody and repressive dictatorships for any positive gesture towards Israel . <p> Make no mistake , these policies will not save Netanyahu nor secure Israel 's future . Rather they will foster hatred towards the US and encourage despicable anti-Semitism in the region and beyond , leading to some form of a blowback sooner or later . 
@@31734744 <p> Nicholas Thompson : Thank you , Stanford , for inviting us all here . I want this conversation to have three parts : First , lay out where we are ; then talk about some of the choices we have to make now ; and last , talk about some advice for all the wonderful people in the hall . <p> Yuval , the last time we talked , you said many , many brilliant things , but one that stuck out was a line where you said , " We are not just in a technological crisis . We are in a philosophical crisis . " So explain what you meant and explain how it ties to AI . Let 's get going with a note of existential angst . <p> Yuval Noah Harari : Yeah , so I think what 's happening now is that the philosophical framework of the modern world that was established in the 17th and 18th century , around ideas like human agency and individual free will , are being challenged like never before . Not by philosophical ideas , but by practical technologies . And we see more and more questions , which used to be the bread and butter of the philosophy department being moved to the engineering department . And that 's scary , partly because unlike philosophers who are extremely patient people , they can discuss something for thousands of years without reaching any agreement and they 're fine with that , the engineers wo n't wait . And even if the engineers are willing to wait , the investors behind the engineers wo n't wait . So it means that we do n't have a lot of time . And in order to encapsulate what the crisis is , maybe I can try and formulate an equation to explain what 's happening . And the equation is : B times C times D equals HH , which means biological knowledge multiplied by computing power , multiplied by data equals the ability to hack humans . And the AI revolution or crisis is not just AI , it 's also biology . It 's biotech . There is a lot of hype now around AI and computers , but that is just half the story . The other half is the biological knowledge coming from brain science and biology . And once you link that to AI , what you get is the ability to hack humans . And maybe I 'll explain what it means , the ability to hack humans : to create an algorithm that understands me better than I understand myself , and can therefore manipulate me , enhance me , or replace me . And this is something that our philosophical baggage and all our belief in , you know , human agency and free will , and the customer is always right , and the voter knows best , it just falls apart once you have this kind of ability . <p> NT : Once you have this kind of ability , and it 's used to manipulate or replace you , not if it 's used to enhance you ? <p> YNH : Also when it 's used to enhance you , the question is , who decides what is a good enhancement and what is a bad enhancement ? So our immediately , our immediate fallback position is to fall back on the traditional humanist ideas , that the customer is always right , the customers will choose the enhancement . Or the voter is always right , the voters will vote , there will be a political decision about the enhancement . Or if it feels good , do it . We 'll just follow our heart , we 'll just listen to ourselves . None of this works when there is a technology to hack humans on a large scale . You ca n't trust your feelings , or the voters , or the customers on that . The easiest people to manipulate are the people who believe in free will , because they think they can not be manipulated . So how do you how do you decide what to enhance if , and this is a very deep ethical and philosophical question -- again that philosophers have been debating for thousands of years -- what is good ? What are the good qualities we need to enhance ? So if you ca n't trust the customer , if you ca n't trust the voter , if you ca n't trust your feelings , who do you trust ? What do you go by ? <p> NT : All right , Fei-Fei , you have a PhD , you have a CS degree , you 're a professor at Stanford , does B times C times D equals HH ? Is Yuval 's theory the right way to look at where we 're headed ? <p> Fei-Fei Li : Wow . What a beginning ! Thank you , Yuval . One of the things -- I 've been reading Yuval 's books for the past couple of years and talking to you -- and I 'm very envious of philosophers now because they can propose questions but they do n't have to answer them . Now as an engineer and scientist , I feel like we have to now solve the crisis . And I 'm very thankful that Yuval , among other people , have opened up this really important question for us . When you said the AI crisis , I was sitting there thinking , this is a field I loved and feel passionate about and researched for 20 years , and that was just a scientific curiosity of a young scientist entering PhD in AI . What happened that 20 years later it has become a crisis ? And it actually speaks of the evolution of AI that , that got me where I am today and got my colleagues at Stanford where we are today with Human-Centered AI , is that this is a transformative technology . It 's a nascent technology . It 's still a budding science compared to physics , chemistry , biology , but with the power of data , computing , and the kind of diverse impact AI is making , it is , like you said , is touching human lives and business in broad and deep ways . And responding to those kinds of questions and crisis that 's facing humanity , I think one of the proposed solutions , that Stanford is making an effort about is , can we reframe the education , the research and the dialog of AI and technology in general in a human-centered way ? We 're not necessarily going to find a solution today , but can we involve the humanists , the philosophers , the historians , the political scientists , the economists , the ethicists , the legal scholars , the neuroscientists , the psychologists , and many more other disciplines into the study and development of AI in the next chapter , in the next phase . <p> " Maybe I can try and formulate an equation to explain what 's happening . And the equation is : B times C times D equals HH , which means biological knowledge multiplied by computing power , multiplied by data equals the ability to hack humans . " <p> Yuval Noah Harari <p> NT : Do n't be so certain we 're not going to get an answer today . I 've got two of the smartest people in the world glued to their chairs , and I 've got 72 more minutes . So let 's let 's give it a shot . <p> Advertisement <p> FL : He said we have thousands of years ! <p> NT : Let me go a little bit further on Yuval 's opening statement . There are a lot of crises about AI that people talk about , right ? They talk about AI becoming conscious and what will that mean . They talk about job displacement ; they talk about biases . And Yuval has very clearly laid out what he thinks is the most important one , which is the combination of biology plus computing plus data leading to hacking . Is that specific concern what people who are thinking about AI should be focused on ? <p> FL : Absolutely . So any technology humanity has created starting with fire is a double-edged sword . So it can bring improvements to life , to work , and to society , but it can bring the perils , and AI has the perils . You know , I wake up every day worried about the diversity , inclusion issue in AI . We worry about fairness or the lack of fairness , privacy , the labor market . So absolutely we need to be concerned and because of that , we need to expand the research , and the development of policies and the dialog of AI beyond just the codes and the products into these human rooms , into the societal issues . So I absolutely agree with you on that , that this is the moment to open the dialog , to open the research in those issues . <p> NT : Okay . <p> YNH : Even though I will just say that again , part of my fear is the dialog . I do n't fear AI experts talking with philosophers , I 'm fine with that . Historians , good . Literary critics , wonderful . I fear the moment you start talking with biologists . That 's my biggest fear . When you and the biologists realize , " Hey , we actually have a common language . And we can do things together . " And that 's when the really scary things , I think ... <p> FL : Can you elaborate on what is scaring you ? That we talk to biologists ? <p> YNH : That 's the moment when you can really hack human beings , not by collecting data about our search words or our purchasing habits , or where do we go about town , but you can actually start peering inside , and collect data directly from our hearts and from our brains . <p> FL : Okay , can I be specific ? First of all the birth of AI is AI scientists talking to biologists , specifically neuroscientists , right . The birth of AI is very much inspired by what the brain does . Fast forward to 60 years later , today 's AI is making great improvements in healthcare . There 's a lot of data from our physiology and pathology being collected and using machine learning to help us . But I feel like you 're talking about something else . <p> YNH : That 's part of it . I mean , if there was n't a great promise in the technology , there would also be no danger because nobody would go along that path . I mean , obviously , there are enormously beneficial things that AI can do for us , especially when it is linked with biology . We are about to get the best healthcare in the world , in history , and the cheapest and available for billions of people by their smartphones . And this is why it is almost impossible to resist the temptation . And with all the issues of privacy , if you have a big battle between privacy and health , health is likely to win hands down . So I fully agree with that . And you know , my job as a historian , as a philosopher , as a social critic is to point out the dangers in that . Because , especially in Silicon Valley , people are very much familiar with the advantages , but they do n't like to think so much about the dangers . And the big danger is what happens when you can hack the brain and that can serve not just your healthcare provider , that can serve so many things for a crazy dictator . <p> Advertisement <p> NT : Let 's focus on what it means to hack the brain . Right now , in some ways my brain is hacked , right ? There 's an allure of this device , it wants me to check it constantly , like my brain has been a little bit hacked . Yours has n't because you meditate two hours a day , but mine has and probably most of these people have . But what exactly is the future brain hacking going to be that it is n't today ? <p> YNH : Much more of the same , but on a much larger scale . I mean , the point when , for example , more and more of your personal decisions in life are being outsourced to an algorithm that is just so much better than you . So you know , you have we have two distinct dystopias that kind of mesh together . We have the dystopia of surveillance capitalism , in which there is no like Big Brother dictator , but more and more of your decisions are being made by an algorithm . And it 's not just decisions about what to eat or where to shop , but decisions like where to work and where to study , and whom to date and whom to marry and whom to vote for . It 's the same logic . And I would be curious to hear if you think that there is anything in humans which is by definition unhackable . That we ca n't reach a point when the algorithm can make that decision better than me . So that 's one line of dystopia , which is a bit more familiar in this part of the world . And then you have the full fledged dystopia of a totalitarian regime based on a total surveillance system . Something like the totalitarian regimes that we have seen in the 20th century , but augmented with biometric sensors and the ability to basically track each and every individual 24 hours a day . <p> And you know , which in the days of Stalin or Hitler was absolutely impossible because they did n't have the technology , but maybe might be possible in 20 years , 30 years . So , we can choose which dystopia to discuss but they are very close ... <p> NT : Let 's choose the liberal democracy dystopia . Fei-Fei , do you want to answer Yuval 's specific question , which is , Is there something in Dystopia A , liberal democracy dystopia , is there something endemic to humans that can not be hacked ? <p> FL : So when you asked me that question , just two minutes ago , the first word that came to my mind is Love . Is love hackable ? <p> YNH : Ask Tinder , I do n't know . <p> FL : Dating ! <p> YNH : That 's a defense ... <p> FL : Dating is not the entirety of love , I hope . <p> YNH : But the question is , which kind of love are you referring to ? if you 're referring to Greek philosophical love or the loving kindness of Buddhism , that 's one question , which I think is much more complicated . If you are referring to the biological , mammalian courtship rituals , then I think yes . I mean , why not ? Why is it different from anything else that is happening in the body ? <p> FL : But humans are humans because we 're -- there 's some part of us that is beyond the mammalian courtship , right ? Is that part hackable ? <p> YNH : So that 's the question . I mean , you know , in most science fiction books and movies , they give your answer . When the extraterrestrial evil robots are about to conquer planet Earth , and nothing can resist them , resistance is futile , at the very last moment , humans win because the robots do n't understand love . <p> FL : The last moment is one heroic white dude that saves us . But okay so the two dystopias , I do not have answers to the two dystopias . But what I want to keep saying is , this is precisely why this is the moment that we need to seek for solutions . This is precisely why this is the moment that we believe the new chapter of AI needs to be written by cross-pollinating efforts from humanists , social scientists , to business leaders , to civil society , to governments , to come at the same table to have that multilateral and cooperative conversation . I think you really bring out the urgency and the importance and the scale of this potential crisis . But I think , in the face of that , we need to act . <p> " The easiest people to manipulate are the people who believe in free will , because they think they can not be manipulated . " <p> Yuval Noah Harari <p> YNH : Yeah , and I agree that we need cooperation that we need much closer cooperation between engineers and philosophers or engineers and historians . And also from a philosophical perspective , I think there is something wonderful about engineers , philosophically -- <p> Advertisement <p> FL : Thank you ! <p> YNH : -- that they really cut the bullshit . I mean , philosophers can talk and talk , you know , in cloudy and flowery metaphors , and then the engineers can really focus the question . Like I just had a discussion the other day with an engineer from Google about this , and he said , " Okay , I know how to maximize people 's time on the website . If somebody comes to me and tells me , ' Look , your job is to maximize time on this application . ' I know how to do it because I know how to measure it . But if somebody comes along and tells me , ' Well , you need to maximize human flourishing , or you need to maximize universal love . ' I do n't know what it means . " So the engineers go back to the philosophers and ask them , " What do you actually mean ? " Which , you know , a lot of philosophical theories collapse around that , because they ca n't really explain that -- and we need this kind of collaboration . <p> FL : Yeah . We need an equation for that . <p> NT : But Yuval , is Fei-Fei right ? If we ca n't explain and we ca n't code love , can artificial intelligence ever recreate it , or is it something intrinsic to humans that the machines will never emulate ? <p> YNH : I do n't think that machines will feel love . But you do n't necessarily need to feel it , in order to be able to hack it , to monitor it , to predict it , to manipulate it . So machines do n't like to play Candy Crush , but they can still -- <p> NT : So you think this device , in some future where it 's infinitely more powerful than it is right now , it could make me fall in love with somebody in the audience ? <p> YNH : That goes to the question of consciousness and mind , and I do n't think that we have the understanding of what consciousness is to answer the question whether a non-organic consciousness is possible or is not possible , I think we just do n't know . But again , the bar for hacking humans is much lower . The machines do n't need to have consciousness of their own in order to predict our choices and manipulate our choices . If you accept that something like love is in the end and biological process in the body , if you think that AI can provide us with wonderful healthcare , by being able to monitor and predict something like the flu , or something like cancer , what 's the essential difference between flu and love ? In the sense of is this biological , and this is something else , which is so separated from the biological reality of the body , that even if we have a machine that is capable of monitoring or predicting flu , it still lacks something essential in order to do the same thing with love . <p> FL : So I want to make two comments and this is where my engineering , you know , personally speaking , we 're making two very important assumptions in this part of the conversation . One is that AI is so omnipotent , that it 's achieved to a state that it 's beyond predicting anything physical , it 's getting to the consciousness level , it 's getting to even the ultimate love level ofcapability . And I do want to make sure that we recognize that we 're very , very , very far from that . This technology is still very nascent . Part of the concern I have about today 's AI is that super-hyping of its capability . So I 'm not saying that that 's not a valid question . But I think that part of this conversation is built upon that assumption that this technology has become that powerful and I do n't even know how many decades we are from that . Second related assumption , I feel our conversation is being based on this that we 're talking about the world or state of the world that only that powerful AI exists , or that small group of people who have produced the powerful AI and is intended to hack humans exists . But in fact , our human society is so complex , there 's so many of us , right ? I mean humanity in its history , have faced so much technology if we left it in the hands of a bad player alone , without any regulation , multinational collaboration , rules , laws , moral codes , that technology could have , maybe not hacked humans , but destroyed humans or hurt humans in massive ways . It has happened , but by and large , our society in a historical view is moving to a more civilized and controlled state . So I think it 's important to look at that greater society and bring other players and people into this dialog . So we do n't talk like there 's only this omnipotent AI deciding it 's gon na hack everything to the end . And that brings me to your topic that in addition to hacking humans at that level that you 're talking about , there are some very immediate concerns already : diversity , privacy , labor , legal changes , you know , international geopolitics . And I think it 's , it 's critical to to tackle those now . <p> Advertisement <p> NT : I love talking to AI researchers , because five years ago , all the AI researchers were saying it 's much more powerful than you think . And now they 're like , it 's not as powerful as you think . Alright , so I 'll just let me ask -- <p> FL : It 's because five years ago , you had no idea what AI is , now you 're extrapolating too much . <p> NT : I did n't say it was wrong . I just said it was the thing . I want to go into what you just said . But before we do that , I want to take one question here from the audience , because once we move into the second section we 'll be able to answer it . So the question is for Yuval , How can we avoid the formation of AI powered digital dictatorships ? So how do we avoid dystopia number two , let 's enter that . And then let 's go , Fei-Fei , into what we can do right now , not what we can do in the future . <p> YNH : The key issue is how to regulate the ownership of data . Because we wo n't stop research in biology , and we wo n't stop researching computer science and AI . So from the three components of biological knowledge , computing power and data , I think data is is the easiest , and it 's also very difficult , but still the easiest kind to regulate , to protect . Let 's place some protections there . And there are efforts now being made . And they are not just political efforts , but you know , also philosophical efforts to really conceptualize , What does it mean to own data or to regulate the ownership of data ? Because we have a fairly good understanding of what it means to own land . We had thousands of years of experience with that . We have a very poor understanding of what it what it actually means to own data and how to regulate it . But this is the very important front that we need to focus on in order to prevent the worst dystopian outcomes . <p> And I agree that AI is not nearly as powerful as some people imagine . But this is why I think we need to place the bar low , to reach a critical threshold . We do n't need the AI to know us perfectly , which will never happen . We just need the AI to know us better than we know ourselves , which is not so difficult because most people do n't know themselves very well and often make huge mistakes in critical decisions . So whether it 's finance or career or love life , to have this shifting authority from humans to algorithm , they can still be terrible . But as long as they are a bit less terrible than us , the authority will shift to them . <p> NT : In your book , you tell a very illuminating story about your own self and your own coming to terms with who you are and how you could be manipulated . Will you tell that story here about coming to terms with your sexuality and the story you told about Coca-Cola in your book ? Because I think that will make it clear what you mean here very well . <p> YNH : Yes . So I I said , I only realized that I was gay when I was 21 . And I look back at the time and I was I do n't know 15 , 17 and it should have been so obvious . It 's not like I 'm a stranger . I 'm with myself 24 hours a day . And I just do n't notice any of like the screaming signs that are saying , " You are gay . " And I do n't know how , but the fact is , I missed it . Now in AI , even a very stupid AI today , will not miss it . <p> Advertisement <p> FL : I 'm not so sure ! <p> YNH : So imagine , this is not like a science fiction scenario of a century from now , this can happen today that you can write all kinds of algorithms that , you know , they 're not perfect , but they are still better , say , than the average teenager . And what does it mean to live in a world in which you learn about something so important about yourself from an algorithm ? What does it mean , what happens if the algorithm does n't share the information with you , but it shares the information with advertisers ? Or with governments ? So if you want to , and I think we should , go down from the cloud , the heights , of you know , the extreme scenarios , to the practicalities of day-to-day life . This is a good example , because this is already happening . <p> NT : Well , let 's take the elevator down to the more conceptual level . Let 's talk about what we can do today , as we think about the risks of AI , the benefits of AI , and tell us you know , sort of your your punch list of what you think the most important things we should be thinking about with AI are . <p> FL : Oh boy , there 's so many things we could do today . And I can not agree more with Yuval , that this is such an important topic . Again , I 'm gon na try to speak about all the efforts that have been made at Stanford because I think this is a good representation of what we believed are so many efforts we can do . So in human-centered AI , in which this is the overall theme , we believe that the next chapter of AI should be human-centered , we believe in three major principles . One principle is to invest in the next generation of AI technology that reflects more of the kind of human intelligence we would like . I was just thinking about your comment about as dependence on data and how the policy and governance of data should emerge in order to regulate and govern the AI impact . Well , we should be developing technology that can explain AI , we call it explainable AI , or AI interpretability studies ; we should be focusing on technology that has a more nuanced understanding of human intelligence . We should be investing in the development of less data-dependent AI technology , that will take into considerations of intuition , knowledge , creativity and other forms of human intelligence . So that kind of human intelligence inspired AI is one of our principles . <p> The second principle is to , again , welcome in the kind of multidisciplinary study of AI . Cross-pollinating with economics , with ethics , with law , with philosophy , with history , cognitive science and so on . Because there is so much more we need to understand in terms of a social , human , anthropological , ethical impact . And we can not possibly do this alone as technologists . Some of us should n't even be doing this . It 's the ethicists , philosophers who should participate and work with us on these issues . So that 's the second principle . And within this , we work with policymakers . We convene the kind of dialogs of multilateral stakeholders . <p> Then the third , last but not least , I think , Nick , you said that at the very beginning of this conversation , that we need to promote the human-enhancing and collaborative and argumentative aspect of this technology . You have a point . Even there , it can become manipulative . But we need to start with that sense of alertness , understanding , but still promote the kind of benevolent application and design of this technology . At least , these are the three principles that Stanford 's Human-centered AI Institute is based on . And I just feel very proud , within the short few months since the birth of this institute , there are more than 200 faculty involved on this campus in this kind of research , dialog , study , education , and that number is still growing . <p> Advertisement <p> NT : Of those three principles , let 's start digging into them . So let 's go to number one , explainability , because this is a really interesting debate in artificial intelligence . So there 's some practitioners who say you should have algorithms that can explain what they did and the choices they made . Sounds eminently sensible . But how do you do that ? I make all kinds of decisions that I ca n't entirely explain . Like , why did I hire this person , not that person ? I can tell a story about why I did it . But I do n't know for sure . If we do n't know ourselves well enough to always be able to truthfully and fully explain what we did , how can we expect a computer , using AI , to do that ? And if we demand that here in the West , then there are other parts of the world that do n't demand that who may be able to move faster . So why do n't I ask you the first part of that question , and Yuval all the second part of that question . So the first part is , can we actually get explainability if it 's super hard even within ourselves ? <p> FL : Well , it 's pretty hard for me to multiply two digits , but , you know , computers can do that . So the fact that something is hard for humans does n't mean we should n't try to get the machines to do it . Especially , you know , after all these algorithms are based on very simple mathematical logic . Granted , we 're dealing with neural networks these days that have millions of nodes and billions of connections . So explainability is actually tough . It 's ongoing research . But I think this is such fertile ground . And it 's so critical when it comes to healthcare decisions , financial decisions , legal decisions . There 's so many scenarios where this technology can be potentially positively useful , but with that kind of explainable capability , so we 've got to try and I 'm pretty confident with a lot of smart minds out there , this is a crackable thing . <p> On top of that , I think you have a point that if we have technology that can explain the decision-making process of algorithms , it makes it harder for it to manipulate and cheat . Right ? It 's a technical solution , not the entirety of the solution , that will contribute to the clarification of what this technology is doing . <p> YNH : But because , presumably , the AI makes decisions in a radically different way than humans , then even if the AI explains its logic , the fear is it will make absolutely no sense to most humans . Most humans , when they are asked to explain a decision , they tell a story in a narrative form , which may or may not reflect what is actually happening within them . In many cases , it does n't reflect , it 's just a made up rationalization and not the real thing . Now an AI could be much different than a human in telling me , like I applied to the bank for loans . And the bank says no . And I asked why not ? And the bank says okay , we will ask our AI . And the AI gives this extremely long statistical analysis based not on one or two salient feature of my life , but on 2,517 different data points , which it took into account and gave different weights . And why did you give this this weight ? And why did you give ... Oh , there is another book about that . And most of the data points to a human would seem completely irrelevant . You applied for a loan on Monday , and not on Wednesday , and the AI discovered that for whatever reason , it 's after the weekend , whatever , people who apply for loans on a Monday are 0.075 percent less likely to repay the loan . So it goes into into the equation . And I get this book of the real explanation . And finally , I get a real explanation . It 's not like sitting with a human banker that just bullshits me . <p> Advertisement <p> FL : So are you rooting for AI ? Are you saying AI is good in this case ? <p> YNH : In many cases , yes . I mean , I think in many cases , it 's two sides of the coin . I think that in many ways , the AI in this scenario will be an improvement over the human banker . Because for example , you can really know what the decision is based on presumably , right , but it 's based on something that I as a human being just can not grasp . I just do n't -- I know how to deal with simple narrative stories . I did n't give you a loan because you 're gay . That 's not good . Or because you did n't repay any of your previous loans . Okay , I can understand that . But my mind does n't know what to do with the real explanation that the AI will give , which is just this crazy statistical thing ... <p> " Part of the concern I have about today 's AI is that super-hyping of its capability . Part of this conversation is built upon that assumption that this technology has become that powerful and I do n't even know how many decades we are from that . " <p> Fei-Fei Li <p> FL : So there 's two layers to your comment . One is how do you trust and be able to comprehend AI 's explanation ? Second is actually can AI be used to make humans more trustful or be more trustworthy as humans . The first point , I agree with you , if AI gives you 2,000 dimensions of potential features with probability , it 's not understandable , but the entire history of science in human civilization is to be able to communicate the results of science in better and better ways . Right ? Like I just had my annual physical and a whole bunch of numbers came to my cell phone . And , well , first of all my doctors , the experts , can help me to explain these numbers . Now even Wikipedia can help me to explain some of these numbers , but the technological improvements of explaining these will improve . It 's our failure as a technologists if we just throw 200 or 2,000 dimensions of probability numbers at you . <p> YNH : But this is the explanation . And I think that the point you raised is very important . But I see it differently . I think science is getting worse and worse in explaining its theories and findings to the general public , which is the reason for things like doubting climate change , and so forth . And it 's not really even the fault of the scientists , because the science is just getting more and more complicated . And reality is extremely complicated . And the human mind was n't adapted to understanding the dynamics of climate change , or the real reasons for refusing to give somebody a loan . But that 's the point when you have an -- and let 's put aside the whole question of manipulation and how can I trust . Let 's assume the AI is benign . And let 's assume there are no hidden biases and everything is ok . But still , I ca n't understand . <p> FL : But that 's why people like Nick , the storyteller , has to explain ... What I 'm saying , You 're right . It 's very complex . <p> NT : I 'm going to lose my job to a computer like next week , but I 'm happy to have your confidence with me ! <p> FL : But that 's the job of the society collectively to explain the complex science . I 'm not saying we 're doing a great job at all . But I 'm saying there is hope if we try . <p> YNH : But my fear is that we just really ca n't do it . Because the human mind is not built for dealing with these kinds of explanations and technologies . And it 's true for , I mean , it 's true for the individual customer who goes to the bank and the bank refused to give them a loan . And it can even be on the level , I mean , how many people today on earth understand the financial system ? How many presidents and prime ministers understand the financial system ? <p> NT : In this country , it 's zero . <p> YNH : So what does it mean to live in a society where the people who are supposed to be running the business ... And again , it 's not the fault of a particular politician , it 's just the financial system has become so complicated . And I do n't think that economists are trying on purpose to hide something from the general public . It 's just extremely complicated . You have some of the wisest people in the world , going to the finance industry , and creating these enormously complex models and tools , which objectively you just ca n't explain to most people , unless first of all , they study economics and mathematics for 10 years or whatever . So I think this is a real crisis . And this is again , this is part of the philosophical crisis we started with . And the undermining of human agency . That 's part of what 's happening , that we have these extremely intelligent tools that are able to make perhaps better decisions about our healthcare , about our financial system , but we ca n't understand what they are doing and why they 're doing it . And this undermines our autonomy and our authority . And we do n't know as a society how to deal with that . <p> Advertisement <p> NT : Ideally , Fei-Fei 's institute will help that . But before we leave this topic , I want to move to a very closely related question , which I think is one of the most interesting , which is the question of bias in algorithms , which is something you 've spoken eloquently about . And let 's start with the financial system . So you can imagine an algorithm used by a bank to determine whether somebody should get a loan . And you can imagine training it on historical data and historical data is racist . And we do n't want that . So let 's figure out how to make sure the data is n't racist , and that it gives loans to people regardless of race . And we probably all , everybody in this room agrees that that is a good outcome . <p> But let 's say that analyzing the historical data suggests that women are more likely to repay their loans than men . Do we strip that out ? Or do we allow that to stay in ? If you allow it to stay in , you get a slightly more efficient financial system ? If you strip it out , you have a little more equality before between men and women . How do you make decisions about what biases you want to strip and which ones are okay to keep ? <p> FL : Yeah , that 's an excellent question , Nick . I mean , I 'm not going to have the answers personally , but I think you touch on the really important question , which is , first of all , machine learning system bias is a real thing . You know , like you said , it starts with data , it probably starts with the very moment we 're collecting data and the type of data we 're collecting all the way through the whole pipeline , and then all the way to the application . But biases come in very complex ways . At Stanford , we have machine learning scientists studying the technical solutions of bias , like , you know , de-biasing data or normalizing certain decision making . But we also have humanists debating about what is bias , what is fairness , when is bias good , when is bias bad ? So I think you just opened up a perfect topic for research and debate and conversation in this in this topic . And I also want to point out that you 've already used a very closely related example , a machine learning algorithm has a potential to actually expose bias . Right ? You know , one of my favorite studies was a paper a couple of years ago analyzing Hollywood movies and using a machine learning face-recognition algorithm , which is a very controversial technology these days , to recognize Hollywood systematically gives more screen time to male actors than female actors . No human being can sit there and count all the frames of faces and whether there is gender bias and this is a perfect example of using machine learning to expose . So in general there 's a rich set of issues we should study and again , bring the humanists , bring the ethicist , bring the legal scholars , bring the gender study experts . <p> NT : Agreed . Though , standing up for humans , I knew Hollywood was sexist even before that paper . but yes , agreed . <p> FL : You 're a smart human . <p> NT : Yuval , on that question of the loans , do you strip out the racist data , you strip out the gender data ? What biases you get rid of what biases do you not ? <p> YNH : I do n't think there is a one size fits all . I mean , it 's a question we , again , we need this day-to-day collaboration between engineers and ethicists and psychologists and political scientists <p> NT : But not biologists , right ? <p> Advertisement <p> YNH : And increasingly , also biologists ! And , you know , it goes back to the question , what should we do ? So , we should teach ethics to coders as part of the curriculum , that the people today in the world that most need a background in ethics , are the people in the computer science departments . So it should be an integral part of the curriculum . And also in the big corporations , which are designing these tools , should be embedded within the teams , people with backgrounds in things like ethics , like politics , that they always think in terms of what biases might we inadvertently be building into our system ? What could be the cultural or political implications of what we 're building ? It should n't be a kind of afterthought that you create this neat technical gadget , it goes into the world , something bad happens , and then you start thinking , " Oh , we did n't see this one coming . What do we do now ? " From the very beginning , it should be clear that this is part of the process . <p> FL : I do want to give a shout out to Rob Reich , who introduced this whole event . He and my colleagues , Mehran Sahami and a few other Stanford professors have opened this course called Computers , Ethics and Public Policy . This is exactly the kind of class that 's needed . I think this quarter the offering has more than 300 students signed up for that . <p> " We should be focusing on technology that has a more nuanced understanding of human intelligence . " <p> Fei-Fei Li <p> NT : Fantastic . I wish that course has existed when I was a student here . Let me ask an excellent question from the audience that ties into this . How do you reconcile the inherent trade-offs between explainability and efficacy and accuracy of algorithms ? <p> FL : Great question . This question seems to be assuming if you can explain that you 're less good or less accurate ? <p> NT : Well , you can imagine that if you require explainability , you lose some level of efficiency , you 're adding a little bit of complexity to the algorithm . <p> FL : So , okay , first of all , I do n't necessarily believe in that . There 's no mathematical logic to this assumption . Second , let 's assume there is a possibility that an explainable algorithm suffers in efficiency . I think this is a societal decision we have to make . You know , when we put the seatbelt in our car driving , that 's a little bit of an efficiency loss because I have to do the seat belt movement instead of just hopping in and driving . But as a society , we decided we can afford that loss of efficiency because we care more about human safety . So I think AI is the same kind of technology . As we make these kind of decisions going forward in our solutions , in our products , we have to balance human well-being and societal well-being with efficiency . <p> NT : So Yuval , let me ask you the global consequences of this . This is something that a number of people have asked about in different ways and we 've touched on but we have n't hit head on . There are two countries , imagine you have Country A and you have Country B. Country A says all of you AI engineers , you have to make it explainable . You have to take ethics classes , you have to really think about the consequences and what you 're doing . You got to have dinner with biologists , you have to think about love , and you have to like read John Locke , that 's Country A. Country B says , just go build some stuff , right ? These two countries at some point are going to come in conflict , and I 'm going to guess that Country B 's technology might be ahead of Country A 's . Is that a concern ? <p> YNH : Yeah , that 's always the concern with arms races , which become a race to the bottom in the name of efficiency and domination . I mean , what is extremely problematic or dangerous about the situation now with AI , is that more and more countries are waking up to the realization that this could be the technology of domination in the 21st century . So you 're not talking about just any economic competition between the different textile industries or even between different oil industries , like one country decides to we do n't care about the environment at all , we 'll just go full gas ahead and the other countries are much more environmentally aware . The situation with AI is potentially much worse , because it could be really the technology of domination in the 21st century . And those left behind could be dominated , exploited , conquered by those who forge ahead . So nobody wants to stay behind . And I think the only way to prevent this kind of catastrophic arms race to the bottom is greater global cooperation around AI . Now , this sounds utopian because we are now moving in exactly the opposite direction of more and more rivalry and competition . But this is part of , I think , of our job , like with the nuclear arms race , to make people in different countries realize that this is an arms race , that whoever wins , humanity loses . And it 's the same with AI . If AI becomes an arms race , then this is extremely bad news for all humans . And it 's easy for , say , people in the US to say we are the good guys in this race , you should be cheering for us . But this is becoming more and more difficult in a situation when the motto of the day is America First . How can we trust the USA to be the leader in AI technology , if ultimately it will serve only American interests and American economic and political domination ? So I think , most people when they think arms race in AI , they think USA versus China , but there are almost 200 other countries in the world . And most of them are far , far behind . And when they look at what is happening , they are increasingly terrified . And for a very good reason . <p> Advertisement <p> NT : The historical example you 've made is a little unsettling . Because , if I heard your answer correctly , it 's that we need global cooperation . And if we do n't , we 're going to need an arms race . In the actual nuclear arms race , we tried for global cooperation from , I do n't know , roughly 1945 to 1950 . And then we gave up and then we said , We 're going full throttle in the United States . And then , Why did the Cold War end the way it did ? Who knows but one argument would be that the United States and its relentless buildup of nuclear weapons helped to keep the peace until the Soviet Union collapsed . So if that is the parallel , then what might happen here is we 'll try for global cooperation and 2019 , 2020 , and 2021 and then we 'll be off in an arms race . A , is that likely and B , if it is , would you say well , then the US needs to really move full throttle on AI because it will be better for the liberal democracies to have artificial intelligence than totalitarian states ? <p> YNH : Well , I 'm afraid it is very likely that cooperation will break down and we will find ourselves in an extreme version of an arms race . And in a way it 's worse than the nuclear arms race because with nukes , at least until today , countries developed them , but never use them . AI will be used all the time . It 's not something you have on the shelf for some Doomsday war . It will be used all the time to create potentially total surveillance regimes and extreme totalitarian systems , in one way or the other . And so , from this perspective , I think the danger is far greater . You could say that the nuclear arms race actually saved democracy and the free market and , you know , rock and roll and Woodstock and then the hippies and they all owe a huge debt to nuclear weapons . Because if nuclear weapons were n't invented , there would have been a conventional arms race and conventional military buildup between the Soviet bloc and the American bloc . And that would have meant total mobilization of society . If the Soviets are having total mobilization , the only way the Americans can compete is to do the same . <p> Now what actually happened was that you had an extreme totalitarian mobilized society in the communist bloc . But thanks to nuclear weapons , you did n't have to do it in the United States or in Western Germany , or in France , because we relied on nukes . You do n't need millions of conscripts in the army . <p> And with AI it is going to be just the opposite , that the technology will not only be developed , it will be used all the time . And that 's a very scary scenario . <p> FL : Wait , can I just add one thing ? I do n't know history like you do , but you said AI is different from nuclear technology . I do want to point out , it is very different because at the same time as you 're talking about these scarier situations , this technology has a wide international scientific collaboration that is being used to make transportation better , to improve healthcare , to improve education . And so it 's a very interesting new time that we have n't seen before because while we have this kind of competition , we also have massive international scientific community collaboration on these benevolent uses and democratization of this technology . I just think it 's important to see both sides of this . <p> YNH : You 're absolutely right here . There are some , as I said , there 's also enormous benefits to this technology . <p> Advertisement <p> FL : And in a in a globally collaborative way , especially between and among scientists . <p> YNH : The global aspect is is more complicated , because the question is , what happens if there is a huge gap in abilities between some countries and most of the world ? Would we have a rerun of the 19th century Industrial Revolution when the few industrial powers conquer and dominate and exploit the entire world , both economically and politically ? What 's to prevent that from repeating ? So even in terms of , you know , without this scary war scenario , we might still find ourselves with global exploitation regime , in which the benefits , most of the benefits , go to a small number of countries at the expense of everybody else . <p> FL : So students in the audience will laugh at this but we are in a very different scientific research climate . The kind of globalization of technology and technique happens in a way that the 19th century , even the 20th century , never saw before . Any paper that is a basic science research paper in AI today or technical technique that is produced , let 's say this week at Stanford , it 's easily globally distributed through this thing called arXiv or GitHub repository or -- <p> YNH : The information is out there . Yeah . <p> FL : The globalization of this scientific technology travels in a different way from the 19th and 20th century . I do n't doubt there is confined development of this technology , maybe by regimes . But we do have to recognize that this global reach , the differences are pretty sharp now . And we might need to take that into consideration . That the scenario you 're describing is harder , I 'm not saying impossible , but harder to happen . <p> YNH : I 'll just say that it 's not just the scientific papers . Yes , the scientific papers are there . But if I live in Yemen , or in Nicaragua , or in Indonesia or in Gaza , yes , I can connect to the internet and download the paper . What will I do with that ? I do n't have the data , I do n't have the infrastructure . I mean , you look at where the big corporations are coming from , that hold all the data of the world , they 're basically coming from just two places . I mean , even Europe is not really in the competition . There is no European Google , or European Amazon , or European Baidu , of European Tencent . And if you look beyond Europe , you think about Central America , you think about most of Africa , the Middle East , much of Southeast Asia , it 's , yes , the basic scientific knowledge is out there , but this is just one of the components that go to creating something that can compete with Amazon or with Tencent , or with the abilities of governments like the US government or like the Chinese government . So I agree that the dissemination of information and basic scientific knowledge are in a completely different place than the 19th century . <p> NT : Let me ask you about that , because it 's something three or four people have asked in the questions , which is , it seems like there could be a centralizing force of artificial intelligence that will make whoever has the data and the best computer more powerful and it could then accentuate income inequality , both within countries and within the world , right ? You can imagine the countries you 've just mentioned , the United States , China , Europe lagging behind , Canada somewhere behind , way ahead of Central America , it could accentuate global income inequality . A , do you think that 's likely and B , how much does it worry you ? <p> YNH : As I said , it 's very likely it 's already happening . And it 's extremely dangerous . Because the economic and political consequences could be catastrophic . We are talking about the potential collapse of entire economies and countries , countries that depend on cheap manual labor , and they just do n't have the educational capital to compete in a world of AI . So what are these countries going to do ? I mean , if , say , you shift back most production from , say , Honduras or Bangladesh to the USA and to Germany , because the human salaries are no longer part of the equation and it 's cheaper to produce the shirt in California than in Honduras , so what will the people there do ? And you can say , okay , but there will be many more jobs for software engineers . But we are not teaching the kids in Honduras to be software engineers . So maybe a few of them could somehow immigrate to the US . But most of them wo n't and what will they do ? And we , at present , we do n't have the economic answers and the political answers to these questions . <p> Advertisement <p> FL : I think that 's fair enough , I think Yuval definitely has laid out some of the critical pitfalls of this and , and that 's why we need more people to be studying and thinking about this . One of the things we over and over noticed , even in this process of building the community of human-centered AI and also talking to people both internally and externally , is that there are opportunities for businesses around the world and governments around the world to think about their data and AI strategy . There are still many opportunities outside of the big players , in terms of companies and countries , to really come to the realization that it 's an important moment for their country , for their region , for their business , to transform into this digital age . And I think when you talk about these potential dangers and lack of data in parts of the world that have n't really caught up with this digital transformation , the moment is now and we hope to , you know , raise that kind of awareness and encourage that kind of transformation . <p> YNH : Yeah , I think it 's very urgent . I mean , what we are seeing at the moment is , on the one hand , what you could call some kind of data colonization , that the same model that we saw in the 19th century that you have the imperial hub , where they have the advanced technology , they grow the cotton in India or Egypt , they send the raw materials to Britain , they produce the shirts , the high tech industry of the 19th century in Manchester , and they send the shirts back to sell them in in India and outcompete the local producers . And we , in a way , might be beginning to see the same thing now with the data economy , that they harvest the data in places also like Brazil and Indonesia , but they do n't process the data there . The data from Brazil and Indonesia , goes to California or goes to eastern China being processed there . They produce the wonderful new gadgets and technologies and sell them back as finished products to the provinces or to the colonies . <p> Now it 's not a one-to-one . It 's not the same , there are differences . But I think we need to keep this analogy in mind . And another thing that maybe we need to keep in mind in this respect , I think , is the reemergence of stone walls -- originally my speciality was medieval military history . This is how I began my academic career with the Crusades and castles and knights and so forth . And now I 'm doing all these cyborgs and AI stuff . But suddenly , there is something that I know from back then , the walls are coming back . I try to kind of look at what 's happening here . I mean , we have virtual realities . We have 3G , AI and suddenly the hottest political issue is building a stone wall . Like the most low-tech thing you can imagine . And what is the significance of a stone wall in a world of interconnectivity and and all that ? And it really frightens me that there is something very sinister there . The combination of data is flowing around everywhere so easily , but more and more countries and also my home country of Israel , it 's the same thing . You have the , you know , the startup nation , and then the wall . And what does it mean this combination ? <p> NT : Fei-Fei , you want to answer that ? <p> FL : Maybe we can look at the next question ! <p> NT : You know what ? Let 's go to the next question , which is tied to that . And the next question is : you have the people here at Stanford who will help build these companies , who will either be furthering the process of data colonization , or reversing it or who will be building , you know , the efforts to create a virtual wall and world based on artificial intelligence are being created , or funded at least by a Stanford graduate . So you have all these students here in the room , how do you want them to be thinking about artificial intelligence ? And what do you want them to learn ? Let 's , let 's spend the last 10 minutes of this conversation talking about what everybody here should be doing . <p> Advertisement <p> FL : So if you 're a computer science or engineering student , take Rob 's class . If you 're humanists take my class . And all of you read Yuval 's books . <p> NT : Are his books on your syllabus ? <p> FL : Not on mine . Sorry ! I teach hardcore deep learning . His book does n't have equations . But seriously , what I meant to say is that Stanford students , you have a great opportunity . We have a proud history of bringing this technology to life . Stanford was at the forefront of the birth of AI . In fact , our Professor John McCarthy coined the term artificial intelligence and came to Stanford in 1963 and started this nation 's , one of the two oldest , AI labs in this country . And since then , Stanford 's AI research has been at the forefront of every wave of AI changes . And in 2019 we 're also at the forefront of starting the human-centered AI revolution or the writing of the new AI chapter . And we did all this for the past 60 years for you guys , for the people who come through the door and who will graduate and become practitioners , leaders , and part of the civil society and that 's really what the bottom line is about . Human-centered AI needs to be written by the next generation of technologists who have taken classes like Rob 's class , to think about the ethical implications , the human well being . And it 's also going to be written by those potential future policymakers who came out of Stanford 's humanities studies and Business School , who are versed in the details of the technology , who understand the implications of this technology , and who have the capability to communicate with the technologists . That is , no matter how we agree and disagree , that 's the bottom line , is that we need this kind of multilingual leaders and thinkers and practitioners . And that is what Stanford 's Human-centered AI Institute is about . <p> NT : Yuval , how do you answer that question ? <p> YNH : On the individual level , I think it 's important for every individual whether in Stanford , whether an engineer or not , to get to know yourself better , because you 're now in a competition . It 's the oldest advice in all the books in philosophies is know yourself . We 've heard it from Socrates , from Confucius , from Buddha : get to know yourself . But there is a difference , which is that now you have competition . In the day of Socrates or Buddha , if you did n't make the effort , okay , so you missed on enlightenment . But still , the king was n't competing with you . They did n't have the technology . Now you have competition . You 're competing against these giant corporations and governments . If they get to know you better than you know yourself , the game is over . So you need to buy yourself some time and the first way to buy yourself some time is to get to know yourself better , and then they have more ground to cover . For engineers and students , I would say -- I 'll focus on it on engineers maybe -- the two things that I would like to see coming out from the laboratories and and the engineering departments , is first , tools that inherently work better in a decentralized system than in a centralized system . I do n't know how to do it . But I hope this is something that engineers can can work with . I heard that blockchain is like the big promise in in that area , I do n't know . But whatever it is , part of when you start designing the tool , part of the specification of what this tool should be like , I would say , this tool should work better in a decentralized system than in a centralized system . That 's the best defense of democracy . <p> Advertisement <p> NT : I do n't want to cut you off , because I want you to get to the second thing . But how do you make a tool work better in a democracy ? <p> YNH : I 'm not an engineer , I do n't know . <p> NT : Okay . Go to part two . Someone in this room , figure that out , because it 's very important . <p> YNH : And I can give you historical examples of tools that work better in this way or in that way . But I do n't know how to translate it into present day technology . <p> NT : Go to part two because I got a few more questions from the audience . <p> YNH : Okay , so the other thing I would like to see coming is an AI sidekick that serves me and not some corporation or government . I mean , we ca n't stop the progress of this kind of technology , but I would like to see it serving me . So yes , it can hack me but it hacks me in order to protect me . Like my computer has an antivirus but by brain has n't . It has a biological antivirus against the flu or whatever , but not against hackers and trolls and so forth . So , one project to work on is to create an AI sidekick , which I paid for , maybe a lot of money and it belongs to me , and it follows me and it monitors me and what I do in my interactions , but everything it learns , it learns in order to protect me from manipulation by other AIs , by other outside influencers . So this is something that I think with the present day technology , I would like to see more effort in in the direction . <p> FL : Not to get into technical terms , but I think you I think you would feel confident to know that the budding efforts in this kind of research is happening you know , trustworthy AI , explainable AI , security-motivated or aware AI . So I 'm not saying we have the solution , but a lot of technologists around the world are thinking along that line and trying to make that happen . <p> YNH : It 's not that I want an AI that belongs to Google or to the government that I can trust . I want an AI that I 'm its master . It 's serving me . <p> YNH : It will have the inherent advantage of knowing me very well . So it might not be able to hack you . But because it follows me around and it has access to everything I do and so forth , it gives it an edge in this specific realm of just me . So this is a kind of counterbalance to the danger that the people -- <p> FL : But even that would have a lot of challenges in their society . Who is accountable , are you accountable for your actions or your sidekick ? <p> YNH : This is going to be a more and more difficult question that we will have to deal with . <p> NT : Alright Fei-Fei , let 's go through a couple questions quickly . We often talk about top-down AI from the big companies , how should we design personal AI to help accelerate our lives and careers ? The way I interpret that question is , so much of AI is being done at the big companies . If you want to have AI at a small company or personally , can you do that ? <p> FL : So well , first of all , one of the solutions is what Yuval just said . <p> NT : Probably those things were built by Facebook . <p> Advertisement <p> FL : So first of all , it 's true , there is a lot of investment and effort and resource putting big companies in AI research and development , but it 's not that all the AI is happening there . I want to say that academia continues to play a huge role in AI 's research and development , especially in the long term exploration of AI . And what is academia ? Academia is a worldwide network of individual students and professors thinking very independently and creatively about different ideas . So from that point of view , it 's a very grassroots kind of effort in AI research that continues to happen . And small businesses and independent research Institutes also have a role to play . There are a lot of publicly available data sets . It 's a global community that is very open about sharing and disseminating knowledge and technology . So yes , please , by all means , we want global participation in this . <p> NT : All right , here 's my favorite question . This is from anonymous , unfortunately . If I am in eighth grade , do I still need to study ? <p> FL : As a mom , I will tell you yes . Go back to your homework . <p> NT : . Alright Fei-Fei , What do you want Yuval 's next book to be about ? <p> FL : Wow , I need to think about that . <p> NT : Alright . Well , while you think about that , Yuval , what area of machine learning you want Fei-Fei to pursue next ? <p> FL : The sidekick project . <p> YNH : Yeah , I mean , just what I said . Can we create the kind of AI which can serve individual people , and not some kind of big network ? I mean , is that even possible ? Or is there something about the nature of AI , which inevitably will always lead back to some kind of network effect , and winner takes all and so forth . <p> FL : Ok , his next book is going to be a science fiction book between you and your sidekick . <p> NT : Alright , one last question for Yuval , because we 've got the top voted question . Without the belief in free will , what gets you up in the morning ? <p> YNH : Without the belief in free will ? I do n't think that 's the question ... I mean , it 's very interesting , very central , it has been central in Western civilization because of some kind of basically theological mistake made thousands of years ago . But really it 's a misunderstanding of the human condition . <p> The real question is , how do you liberate yourself from suffering ? And one of the most important steps in that direction is to get to know yourself better . For me , the biggest problem was the belief in free will , is that it makes people incurious about themselves and about what is really happening inside themselves because they basically say , " I know everything . I know why I make decisions , this is my free will . " And they identify with whatever thought or emotion pops up in their mind because this is my free will . And this makes them very incurious about what is really happening inside and what is also the deep sources of the misery in their lives . And so this is what makes me wake up in the morning , to try and understand myself better to try and understand the human condition better . And free will is just irrelevant for that . <p> NT : And if we lose your sidekick and get you up in the morning . Fei-Fei , 75 minutes ago , you said we were n't gon na reach any conclusions Do you think we got somewhere ? <p> FL : Well , we opened the dialog between the humanist and the technologist and I want to see more of that . <p> Sebastian Thrun , CEO of Kittyhawk and president of Udacity , and Sam Altman , president of Y Combinator and co-chair of Open AI , spoke with WIRED 's Former Editor-in-Chief Chris Anderson as part of WIRED25 , WIRED 's 25th anniversary celebration in San Francisco . <p> WIRED is where tomorrow is realized . It is the essential source of information and ideas that make sense of a world in constant transformation . The WIRED conversation illuminates how technology is changing every aspect of our lives -- from culture to business , science to design . The breakthroughs and innovations that we uncover lead to new ways of thinking , new connections , and new industries . 
@@31737842 <h> Israel named world 's 14th happiest country in annual UN report <h> Top countries , the report states , are found to " support well-being , including income , healthy life expectancy , social support , freedom , trust and generosity . " <p> A girl plays on the beach as Israel celebrates its Independence Day marking the 71st anniversary of the creation of the state , in Tel Aviv , Israel May 9 , 2019 <p> ( photo credit : REUTERS/CORINNA KERN ) <p> Israel was named the 14th happiest country in the UN 's eighth World Happiness Report , suggesting that even the coronavirus outbreak will struggle to wipe smiles off Israeli faces . <p> Published annually by the United Nations Sustainable Development Solutions Network to coincide with International Day of Happiness on March 20 , rankings are based on the Gallup World Poll surveys from 2017-2019 . <p> Top countries , the report stated , are found to " support well-being , including income , healthy life expectancy , social support , freedom , trust and generosity . " <p> Tel Aviv was ranked the eighth happiest city worldwide , as the report focused on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ residents ' self-evaluation of life quality . Tel Aviv and Zurich ( 4th ) were the only top 10 cities not located in either the Nordic countries , Australia or New Zealand . Jerusalem was the 33rd happiest city . <p> " The World Happiness Report has proven to be an indispensable tool for policymakers looking to better understand what makes people happy and thereby to promote the well-being of their citizenry , " said Prof. Jeffrey Sachs , director of Sustainable Development Solutions Network and the Center for Sustainable Development at Columbia University . <p> " Time and again we see the reasons for well-being include good social support networks , social trust , honest governments , safe environments and healthy lives . " <p> The happiest countries worldwide were Finland , Denmark and Switzerland , the report found . At the opposite end of the 153-country spectrum , Afghanistan , South Sudan and Zimbabwe were named the least happy nations . The Palestinian territories were ranked 125th worldwide , between Liberia and Uganda . The greatest increases in happiness were recorded by Benin , Togo and Hungary . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Helsinki , Aarhus ( Denmark ) and Wellington are the most content worldwide . The unhappiest residents are found in Gaza City , Sanaa and Kabul . <p> " Generally , we find that the average happiness of city residents is more often than not higher than the average happiness of the general country population , especially in countries at the lower end of economic development , " said Prof. Jan-Emmanuel De Neve , director of the Wellbeing Research Center at the University of Oxford . <p> " But this urban happiness advantage evaporates and sometimes turns negative for cities in high-income countries , suggesting that the search for happiness may well be more fruitful when looking to live in more rural areas . " <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 
@@31737843 <h> BDS is not primarily a pro-Palestinian movement , but an anti-Jewish one . Denying one group , and one group only , the right to homestead land is unjust . <p> All peaceful boycotts should be legal . Laws attempting to squelch any such initiative are unjustified because free association is a universal principle of civilization . Forcing someone to associate economically with an entity he deems unworthy is unjust . Boycotts are anywhere and everywhere an expression of human freedom , whether or not they are justified in any given case . <p> If the Boycott , Divestment and Sanctions movement ( BDS ) were peaceful , this would apply to them as well , even though we detest their goals . However , this undertaking resorts to violence against pro-Israel speakers on campus , against public personalities , artists and many others in order to shut down their voices . <p> What is their case against the State of Israel ? It is based upon blatant lies . People of good will should abjure this initiative . <p> Boycotting the State of Israel has been a mainstay of Arab states in trying to destroy the Jewish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Western organizations and countries , particularly on university campuses . <p> Anti-Zionism is fundamentally based upon two myths : First , the massive expropriation and ethnic cleansing of Palestinian Arabs by Israel . This assumes that Israel was built on stolen land and property . Second , that the Jews expelled the Arabs following a systematic premeditated plan . <p> In the Lockean tradition , legitimate property is the outcome of mixing one 's labor with any virgin resource ; this is known as " homesteading . " If a land is not homesteaded , it is unowned by natural law . In Israel , most of the land labeled as " owned " by Arabs under the British mandate was uncultivated , consisting of swamp or desert ; regarded as uncultivable , hence not homesteaded . Titles to such " property " were illegitimate by natural law , since no homesteading took place to acquire such supposed ownership . <p> Anti-Zionists try to refute this fact by saying that most of the land bought by Jews and Jewish organizations was owned by and large by absentee landowners , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ working the land . However , most of the land sold to Jews was swampy and uninhabitable . Further , if one claims that the Arab-owned titles to this land were legitimate in the first place , then so was the sale of these titles . <p> The truth is that most of the land said to be the property of Arabs was uncultivated , and owned only in a legal sense by the government in charge ( the Ottoman Empire or the British Mandate , depending upon the date ) . For instance , most of what is now Israel is comprised of the Negev Desert . Apart from Jews , who are now growing many different fruits and vegetables in the area , no homesteading ever took place there . <p> Jews did not buy land from Arab owners because they thought the titles were morally legitimate , but rather because this was the only way to attain land at the time without being harassed by government . <p> THE SECOND myth of ethnic cleansing is refuted both by historical fact and direct observation . Even the father @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Morris , recognized that no such thing took place , and that the Arabs , for the most part , fled Israel voluntarily as the result of ongoing fighting and fear during the War of Independence in 1948 ( a war the Arab states started ) . <p> No Arab who remained in Israel lost his property and these people , to this day , are citizens of the state . Some 20% of Israel 's population is Arab , which makes this a strange case of ethnic cleansing indeed . <p> BDS focuses on the " settlements . " By this term , BDS supporters refer to Judea and Samaria Jewish towns , which they blame for the lack of " peace . " However , there was no peace before these " settlements " existed . <p> Why are Jews not to be allowed to live in Judea and Samaria ? Jewish settlements in this area were based on virgin lands where no previous Arab homesteading took place . The idea that as Jews multiply , Palestinian Arabs " lose " more land is absurd . The truth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ towns , irrespective of where the Palestinian Arab state could in theory exist , in the same way there is no problem with Arab towns in Israel proper . <p> " Settlements " are not the cause of the lack of peace . Instead , this is due to the rejection of any Jewish presence at all in the area . BDS supporters do not care that Palestinian Arabs are second-class citizens in many Arab countries . For example , Kuwait expelled hundreds of thousands of Palestinian Arabs after the First Gulf War . Many Palestinian Arabs are now living under the brutal Islamist dictatorship by the Hamas in Gaza , or under the tyranny of Mahmoud Abbas and the Palestinian Authority , whose " democratic " term ended a decade ago . Why is BDS not protesting these injustices against Palestinians ? <p> Do Jews have a right to live , build and create on un-homesteaded land ? Yes , because they are human beings , and as such they are entitled to homestead any virgin resource . The fact that they chose Israel is due to the millennia-old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Temple Mount is actually Al-Haram Al-Sharif . Jerusalem is now Al-Quds , and the Western Wall is Al-Buraq Wall . This nomenclature constitutes a systematic attempt to erase the connection between Jewish history and the Jewish holy of holies . It would be offensive if it was not so transparently inane , even in terms of denying Christian history , and by extension that of the Muslim . <p> BDS supporters may very well stop buying Israeli products if they want to , and are free to persuade others to do so . However , they can not legitimately lobby governments to use force against their own citizens who wish to trade with Israelis on a voluntary and mutually beneficial basis . <p> BDS is not primarily a pro-Palestinian movement , but an anti-Jewish one . Denying one group , and one group only , the right to homestead land is unjust . <p> Alan Futerman is adjunct professor of institutional economics at the University of the Latin American Educational Center ( Rosario , Argentina ) . Walter E. Block is the Harold E. Wirth Eminent Scholar Endowed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Rafi Farber is an independent scholar living in Israel . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31742638 <p> A few days after Donald Trump was inaugurated , Jared Kushner sat down to decide how to reshape the Middle East . During the campaign , Trump had promised a sweeping transformation of the region . Steve Bannon , Trump 's senior aide and ideologist at the time , told me recently , " Our plan was to annihilate the physical caliphate of ISIS in Iraq and Syria -- not attrition , annihilation -- and to roll back the Persians . And force the Gulf states to stop funding radical Islam . " The Middle East initiative , Bannon said , was one of the few points of agreement in an otherwise fractious White House . " Jared and I were at war on a number of other topics , but not this . " <p> Kushner , Trump 's son-in-law , was put in charge of policy for the region . He had no experience in diplomacy or in Middle Eastern politics ; at thirty-six , he had spent his working life managing New York and New Jersey real-estate projects and running the New York Observer , a fading tabloid . But a former senior defense official who worked with Kushner told me that he had been educating himself on the fly . " He 's not a scholar on this stuff , " the official said . " His knowledge is gained from talking to movers and shakers in that part of the world . You can read a lot of books but never get the type of education you get from talking to the Kissingers and Petraeuses of the world . " <p> In a conference room at the White House , Kushner met with aides from the National Security Council . " We took out the map and assessed the situation , " the former defense official said . Surveying the region , they concluded that the northern tier of the Middle East had been lost to Iran . In Lebanon , Hezbollah , an Iranian proxy , controlled the government . In Syria , Iran had helped save President Bashar al-Assad from military disaster and was now bolstering his political future . In Iraq , the government , nominally pro-American , was also under the sway of Tehran . " We kind of set those to the side , " the official told me . " We thought , So then what ? Our anchors were Israel and Saudi Arabia . We ca n't be successful in the Gulf without Saudi Arabia . " <p> That meant reversing the approach supported by Barack Obama , who , unlike previous Presidents , had kept the Saudis at arm 's length , objecting to their repressive internal policies , their treatment of women , and their aggressive posture toward Iran . Obama , in effect , hoped to create a kind of balance between Riyadh and Tehran . In March , 2016 , he told the journalist Jeffrey Goldberg that the unsteady condition of the Middle East " requires us to say to our friends as well as to the Iranians that they need to find an effective way to share the neighborhood and institute some sort of cold peace . " Trump and Kushner wanted no such d ? tente . " Everything we could do to strengthen our relationship with the Saudis , we were going to do , " the former defense official told me . Above all , that meant forming a new alliance with Saudi Arabia 's deputy crown prince , Mohammed bin Salman -- known in the White House and throughout the Middle East as M.B.S. <p> Bin Salman , though only thirty-one , was already one of the most powerful people in the kingdom . The son of the current monarch , he was the minister of defense , chairman of the committee that charted the kingdom 's economy , and second in line to the throne . In a country long ruled by aging kings , M.B.S. was young , tall , and transparently ambitious . He wanted to wean the kingdom from its unsustainable addiction to oil and to diversify its economy . And he promised to end the long-standing arrangement of Saudi domestic politics , in which the royal family , and its myriad princes , bought off political opposition by allowing radical Islamists to propagate their creed and even to carry out terrorist acts abroad . M.B.S. was uncompromising in foreign policy , describing the mullahs who presided over Iran as akin to Nazis . The question for many analysts around the world was whether he represented genuine reform or was merely using the language of reform to consolidate power . <p> As Kushner grappled with the complexities of Middle East politics , he and M.B.S. began a conversation by telephone and e-mail . " They became close very fast , " a former American official who sees M.B.S. periodically said . " They see the world in the same way -- they see themselves as being in the tech-savvy money world . " Kushner followed up with a visit to Riyadh , the first of three such trips ; the two men stayed up nearly until dawn , discussing the future of their countries . <p> As Kushner knew , M.B.S. was involved in a messy battle over succession to the throne , which American security officials warned might destabilize the kingdom . And M.B.S. had his own ideas about how to remake the Middle East . But , Bannon told me , the message that he and Kushner wanted Trump to convey to the region 's leaders was that the status quo had to change , and in the more places the better . " We said to them -- Trump said to them , ' We 'll support you , but we want action , action , ' " Bannon said . No one seemed more eager to hear that message than the deputy crown prince . " The judgment was that we needed to find a change agent , " the former defense official told me . " That 's where M.B.S. came in . We were going to embrace him as the change agent . " <p> When Mohammed bin Salman was growing up , in Riyadh , he lived in a walled palace complex the size of a city block , sharing a mansion with his five brothers and his mother , Fahda , one of his father 's four wives . ( Each wife had a mansion of her own . ) For most of his childhood , his father , Salman , was the governor of Riyadh and a likely future king . The family 's home , in the Madher neighborhood , had a staff of about fifty , including servants , gardeners , maids , cooks , and drivers . <p> Each weekday , the staff ferried the young prince to class , at a prestigious academy called the al-Riyadh Schools . On weekends , the servants sometimes escorted him and his classmates into the desert , where they erected large tents and lit bonfires under the stars . His fellow-students would gather around him and recite poems of praise , calling him Kareem -- the generous one -- for sponsoring the lavish parties . The young M.B.S. would smile at the encomiums , especially if they came from a son of one of Riyadh 's better families . " He treated everyone well , but even then he was aware of everyone 's status , " Mahboob Mohammed , a Pakistani who worked on the staff of one of M.B.S. 's cousins , told me . " Prince Salman always knew he was special . " <p> Advertisement <p> Still , even for the young Salman , the future was cloudy -- due , in no small part , to the uncertain line of royal succession in the House of Saud . Since 1953 , the kingdom of Saudi Arabia , one of the world 's last surviving absolute monarchies , has been ruled by six brothers , all sons of King Abdul-Aziz al Saud . Abdul-Aziz is the central figure in modern Saudi Arabia , having united the kingdom in 1932 , after a series of wars . In the forties , he opened the country to large-scale oil production by Western companies and , after meeting President Franklin Roosevelt on an American destroyer in the Red Sea , struck an alliance with the United States , which has endured ever since . The Saudis guarantee access to oil ; the U.S. , in return , guarantees Saudi Arabia security from foreign enemies . <p> Abdul-Aziz was a prolific father -- he bragged of having " married no fewer than a hundred and thirty-five virgins , " and he sired at least forty-two sons and fifty-five daughters . Since his death , in 1953 , royal succession has been determined on the principle of agnatic seniority , whereby a king 's younger brother is preferred over his sons . In 2015 , when his successor King Abdullah died , his brother Salman ascended to the throne ; another , younger brother , named Muqrin , became crown prince . Muqrin , the son of a Yemeni concubine , was Abdul-Aziz 's last surviving son . <p> As the generation of Abdul-Aziz 's sons neared its end , tensions arose over who would be the first member of the next generation to become king . Saudi kings , though absolute in their authority , have traditionally ruled by consensus among the brothers ; their sons , in turn , are placed in key positions across the government . Any one of Abdul-Aziz 's hundreds of grandsons could feel entitled to the throne . <p> Salman , during forty-eight years as governor of Riyadh , had earned a reputation as a ruthlessly efficient executive . " He was the family enforcer -- he kept people in line , and he had a file on everyone , " Rashid Khalidi , a professor of history at Columbia , told me . Less than a year after becoming king , he removed his brother as crown prince and sent him into retirement ; he elevated his nephew Mohammed bin Nayef to succeed him , and made his own son , Mohammed bin Salman , deputy crown prince . <p> Displacing a crown prince was an unprecedented move , but in many respects bin Nayef was a solid choice for a successor . For years , he had served as interior minister . After the attacks of September 11 , 2001 , he had presided over a vicious fight with Al Qaeda , in which his security forces tortured and killed suspected insurgents . In 2009 , the group retaliated by sending a suicide bomber to kill bin Nayef , who suffered damage to one hand and lasting pain from his injuries . Bin Nayef forged close relationships with American officials . " He was the go-to person on counterterrorism , " a senior counterterrorism official in the Obama Administration told me . For King Salman , the choice of bin Nayef was politically astute for another reason : his only children were two daughters , which meant that his ascension would be less threatening to others , because no one in his bloodline could succeed him . <p> The selection of M.B.S. as deputy crown prince promised less stability . At twenty-nine years old , he was younger than many of his rivals but undeniably King Salman 's favorite . Joseph Westphal , the U.S. Ambassador to Saudi Arabia from 2013 to 2017 , told me that whenever Salman introduced M.B.S. to a stranger he said , with evident pride , " This is my son . " Westphal recalled watching a video recorded when M.B.S. was a teen-ager , in which Salman visited an industrial plant with two of his sons , Faisal and M.B.S. Faisal , who is fifteen years older , walked passively , while M.B.S. asked questions and scribbled notes incessantly ; Salman watched him and beamed . " He was in key meetings all the time -- never interfering , just taking notes , but always switched on , " Westphal said of M.B.S. " I saw right away that this guy was going to be more than just a silent adviser to the King . " <p> M.B.S. gives the impression of being comfortable with Western mores . In meetings with American women , he shakes their hands and looks them in the eye , which not every Saudi official will do . Once , during a meeting at the home of Secretary of State John Kerry , M.B.S. spotted a grand piano , walked over , and began playing the " Moonlight " Sonata . His favorite diversion is Call of Duty , the video game . But his English is halting , and among his brothers -- he has nine -- he is unusually bound to Saudi Arabia . " M.B.S. is unlike his brothers , several of whom were educated in the West and one of whom has a doctorate from Oxford , " a longtime friend of M.B.S. told me . " If you look at them and you talk to them , they are basically soft . And there is this quality to M.B.S. -- the guy 's not soft . He has a lot of charisma . He 's a lot like Bill Clinton . He makes you feel like you 're super important when you 're talking to him . He really puts on a charm that is unmistakable . " <p> As M.B.S. grew into adulthood , he brazenly used his status to enrich himself . In his teens , according to people who know him , he visited a series of wealthy businessmen and asked them to put money into his personal investment fund . In a matter of weeks , he raised thirty million dollars . " He 's the son of Salman , " M.B.S. 's friend told me . " It 's not like anyone was going to say no . " According to a story that circulates in Riyadh , M.B.S. demanded that a Saudi land-registry official help him appropriate a property . After the official refused , he received an envelope with a single bullet inside . The episode earned M.B.S. the street name Abu Rasasa , or " father of the bullet . " " The story is true , " the friend said . " I think that M.B.S. realizes that he went too far toward some people in those days , and he has tried to make amends . " ( A spokesman for the Saudi Embassy denied the story , but largely declined to co ? perate with fact-checking for the rest of the article , describing it as full of " old , incorrect rumors . " ) <p> In addition to being deputy crown prince , M.B.S. was appointed to positions that gave him vast powers over foreign and domestic policy . He was named defense minister , head of the kingdom 's economic-planning council , and chief of Aramco , the national oil company and the central pillar of the country 's economy . In the seventy years since Saudi Arabia began exporting oil at scale , it has grown into the largest economy in the Middle East , with a welfare state whose benefits include free education and health care , along with subsidized food , electricity , and housing . But the economy relies overwhelmingly on oil ; the country exports almost nothing else , and imports almost everything else , from food to freshwater . The welfare state was built on the expectation that the price of oil would remain at historic levels of at least a hundred dollars a barrel . It is now about sixty-two dollars , and is widely predicted to keep falling . " If you are the guy driving the Saudi bus , my advice would be to get off it as soon as you can , " Jan Stuart , an energy economist in New York , told me . The former defense official put it even more starkly : " In five to seven years , at current trends , they 're broke . " <p> Advertisement <p> The economic pressures on the Saudi state are likely to get worse . Close to seventy per cent of the population is under thirty years old . Every year , the government pays for as many as seventy thousand young people to study in the United States . Those students return home wanting jobs and , often , at least some of the freedoms that they enjoyed in the West . <p> To address these concerns , M.B.S. devised a plan , called Vision 2030 , for a vast transformation of the Saudi economy and society . Working with consultants from McKinsey &amp; Co. , he set quantifiable goals to be met in the next decade . The new order would encourage entrepreneurship and foreign investment , and privatize state-owned industries , including the oil business . The workforce would be augmented by a growing number of women , along with nonprofit organizations and civic-minded volunteers . To publicize the plan , M.B.S. travelled to China , to Russia , and to the U.S. , where he met with an array of tech executives , including Mark Zuckerberg . At a gathering of prominent venture capitalists at the Fairmont Hotel , in San Francisco , M.B.S. spoke bluntly about Saudi Arabia 's prospects . According to one attendee , he said , " In twenty years , oil goes to zero , and then renewables take over . I have twenty years to reorient my country and launch it into the future . " <p> The attendee said , " My jaw was on the floor . The meeting had the dynamic of a tech startup . He 's throwing the harpoon . " <p> M.B.S. 's appointments also allowed him to display his apparently irrepressible ambition . In April , 2016 , when President Obama paid his final visit to Saudi Arabia , he and King Salman sat facing each other , with their aides grouped around them . Obama 's advisers noticed that , each time the President spoke , Salman , who was eighty , paused before answering , while M.B.S. , several seats to his left , typed on an iPad . When M.B.S. finished , the King read from an iPad of his own and then responded to Obama . " The chances of that being a coincidence are quite low , " a former national-security official told me . <p> At another meeting , Obama upbraided King Salman for arresting dissident bloggers and for executing Shiite protesters , complaining that these practices made it difficult for him to defend the Saudis in the United States . According to several former American officials , M.B.S. rose abruptly from his chair to convey his displeasure to Obama . " Suddenly , he was standing up and saying , ' You do n't understand our judicial system -- we can get you a briefing , ' " the former national-security official said . " It was very strange . " <p> When King Salman named bin Nayef crown prince , some Saudis speculated that the King envisioned him as a sort of caretaker , running the government until M.B.S. could be installed . " I do n't think Salman ever intended to make bin Nayef king , " a prominent Saudi analyst told me . " I think he was just waiting for the moment when M.B.S. was ready . " But bin Nayef was a popular figure , and bypassing him would have aroused resistance within the royal family . Outwardly , M.B.S. and bin Nayef worked smoothly together . M.B.S. adhered carefully to royal protocol ; at meetings with foreign leaders , he sometimes asked bin Nayef 's permission to speak . In 2016 , Joseph Westphal asked M.B.S. who he thought would succeed King Salman . " He said , ' We have a crown prince , and historically the crown prince always becomes the king , ' " Westphal told me . <p> Under the surface , though , tensions grew , as M.B.S. maneuvered to reduce his rival 's power . His directorship of the economy and of the military allowed him to crowd out bin Nayef 's daily duties . In the name of streamlining the government , he eliminated a council of advisers who answered to bin Nayef , depriving him of most of his professional staff . A former American official who maintains contacts in the region told me , " M.B.S. was literally signing orders in the King 's name . " <p> Saudi Arabia sees itself as the center of the Islamic world : the king is customarily known as the " custodian of the two holy mosques , " the sacred sites in Mecca and Medina . But , as M.B.S. gained power , he was aided by an ally from outside the kingdom : Mohammed bin Zayed , of the United Arab Emirates . Bin Zayed , or M.B.Z. , is the crown prince of Abu Dhabi , the most politically important of the country 's seven emirates . Flush with revenue from oil and from the booming city-state of Dubai , M.B.Z. , the country 's de-facto leader , has helped build the Emirates into a kind of Middle Eastern Singapore : rich , efficient , and authoritarian . <p> M.B.Z. , fifty-seven , is a former military helicopter pilot , with a modest bearing that belies his influence throughout the Middle East . " If you sit down to talk to M.B.Z. , he 's going to whisper , and he 's going to be very respectful and very polite , " Richard Clarke , a counterterrorism adviser to Presidents Obama and George W. Bush , told me . " You really have to get into his confidence over many years before he will raise his voice . And then he 'll argue with you . " He is unabashedly pro-American in a region teeming with anti-American sentiment ; he has purchased billions of dollars ' worth of American weapons and has often been called on to advance U.S. prerogatives . In 2003 , the U.A.E. volunteered to send a small contingent of troops to assist in Afghanistan , the first Arab country to do so ; fifteen years later , they are still there . <p> Saudi Arabia and the U.A.E. , which share a border , are both hereditary monarchies , dominated by Sunnis , and their interests often align . In foreign affairs , Saudis prefer to see the U.A.E. as their junior partner , but , in many respects , it is M.B.Z. who drives the policy . From early on , he opposed bin Nayef 's rise , in part because of an unresolvable dispute between the two men . In a 2003 U.S. diplomatic cable , published by WikiLeaks , M.B.Z. was quoted comparing bin Nayef 's father to an ape , suggesting that he provided evidence that " Darwin was right . " The former American official with contacts in the region told me , " After that , there was no possibility of a relationship between M.B.Z. and bin Nayef . " <p> More important , M.B.Z. saw M.B.S. as a younger version of himself : smart , energetic , and eager to confront enemies . As M.B.S. was being groomed for power , the Gulf states were feeling increasingly vulnerable . When the Arab Spring erupted , in 2011 , it forced out dictators in Tunisia , Egypt , and elsewhere . Leaders in Saudi Arabia and the Emirates were terrified that their monarchies would soon follow . The emergence of ISIS further alarmed them , and the two countries supported proxies to fight against its incursions in Syria and in Libya . But their most decisive intervention came in Egypt , the Arab world 's most populous country , where the longtime strongman Hosni Mubarak was ousted by a popular uprising . In June , 2012 , Egyptian voters delivered the Presidency to Mohamed Morsi , of the Muslim Brotherhood . For the Saudis and the Emiratis , it was a nightmare . <p> The Brotherhood , founded in 1928 , is the world 's largest Islamist movement , with hundreds of millions of followers . It has inspired Islamist political parties throughout the Sunni Muslim world , including branches in Jordan , Syria , and Bahrain . In Egypt , security services had savagely repressed the Brotherhood for decades . After the Arab Spring , though , it emerged as the country 's most organized political force . <p> " When Morsi got elected , the Saudis and the Emiratis went into overdrive , " a former senior American diplomat told me . According to several former American officials , M.B.Z. and Bandar bin Sultan , the director of Saudi intelligence , began plotting with others in their governments to remove Morsi from power . Egypt 's generals were already organizing against him . Bandar and M.B.Z. reached out to the Egyptian defense minister , General Abdel Fattah El-Sisi , and promised twenty billion dollars in economic aid if Morsi were deposed . ( The Emirati Embassy did not respond to requests for comment . ) They also began financing an anti-government movement in Cairo , built around an ostensibly independent youth group called Tamarod . As the coup took shape , Bandar and Sisi used Mohammed Dahlan , a Palestinian confidant , to carry messages and money to collaborators in the Egyptian military . The former diplomat said that the foreign support was crucial to the coup : " For Sisi to move like that , he needed a promise that he would succeed . " In July , 2013 , the Egyptian military forced Morsi from power , and soon afterward it orchestrated a crackdown on suspected Brotherhood supporters , detaining at least forty thousand people . " It was terrible , terrible , " the diplomat told me . " What the Saudis and the Emiratis did was unforgivable . " <p> Advertisement <p> As M.B.S. gained influence in the kingdom , he and M.B.Z. built a close relationship . " They talk on the phone all day to each other , " Clarke told me . The two royals share a view of geopolitics . M.B.S. has referred to the Muslim Brotherhood and its allies as " forces of evil , " and , like M.B.Z. , he considers Iran his country 's great enemy . The rivalry dates to the time of the Safavid Empire , which swept out of Persia in the fifteen-hundreds and ruled parts of the Arab world for two centuries . In recent years , Saudi and Emirati officials have watched in alarm as the Shiite regime in Iran has established an increasingly dominant presence throughout the region . " The Nazis and the Iranian regime are ideologically very similar , " Thamer al-Sabhan , the Saudi minister for Gulf affairs , told me . The Iranians were assembling " a new Islamic army that relies on chaos and aggression , " he said . " They do n't want to weaken Saudi Arabia -- they want to take over the region altogether . Their only speed bump is the kingdom . " <p> In 2009 , the Obama White House began negotiating with the Iranians to limit their nuclear program . Saudi and Emirati leaders viewed any outreach to Iran as dangerously misguided . An American national-security official recalled visiting the Emirates in 2011 to meet M.B.Z. He told me that he was instructed to wait on a dock on the Persian Gulf ; eventually , M.B.Z. pulled up in a speedboat , wearing shorts , flip-flops , and a Bass Pro Shop hat . " He read us the riot act , " the official recalled . " He told us that we were na ? ve about the Iranians , and that we were giving away the whole region to them . That was always what the Emiratis and the Saudis said -- we were na ? ve . We thought they were reckless . " <p> After M.B.S. was named defense minister , the tension with the Obama Administration intensified , particularly over another conflict with Iran -- this one in Yemen , which borders Saudi Arabia to the south . Yemen is a poor country , perpetually beset by internal violence . For three decades , Saudi Arabia had spent millions of dollars a year subsidizing tribal leaders there , in order to buy a little peace . In recent years , the country had fallen into civil war , and , after a ceasefire brokered by the Saudis fell apart , a Shiite-dominated rebel group known as the Houthis had swept into the capital and forced the President to flee . Saudi leaders were deeply suspicious of the Houthis , whom the Iranians periodically supplied with weapons . <p> In March , 2015 , the Saudis and the Emiratis informed the White House that they were preparing a military intervention in Yemen . " M.B.S. told us he wanted us with them , but that they were going anyway , " a former State Department official told me . For years , the Obama Administration had been telling the Saudis that they had to carry more weight in the region ; now , it seemed , M.B.S. was calling their bluff . <p> The Administration declined to directly join the campaign , but , soon after the war began , Tony Blinken , the Deputy Secretary of State , flew to Riyadh to meet with M.B.S. " He told me his goal was to eradicate all Iranian influence in Yemen , " Blinken said . He was taken aback ; to purge Iran 's sympathizers from the country would require a bloodbath . " I told him , You could do many things to minimize or reduce Iranian influence . But eliminate it ? " After M.B.S. sent Saudi forces into Yemen , the Emiratis circulated celebratory photomontages online , in which M.B.S. looked on sternly as lions and fighter jets menaced his foes . <p> As the war increased M.B.S. 's influence in Saudi Arabia , he began pushing more aggressively to become crown prince . In the summer of 2015 , Adel al-Jubeir , the Saudi foreign minister , was dispatched to Nantucket to see Secretary of State Kerry , who was vacationing at his house there . Jubeir wanted to know whether Kerry would support M.B.S. if he pushed bin Nayef aside , according to a former Obama Administration official who was briefed on the meeting . " M.B.S. was trying to play Kerry , " the official told me . " He wanted us on his side . " Kerry said that the Administration was n't going to take sides . At about the same time , the official told me , bin Nayef was reaching out to John Brennan , who was then the head of the C.I.A. , to seek support against M.B.S. <p> Inside the Obama White House , fears grew that the struggle for succession would turn violent . As defense minister , M.B.S. controlled the Army ; as interior minister , bin Nayef controlled the country 's vast internal security forces . " You had the possibility of the princes going to war with each other , with tanks in the streets , " the former official said . <p> In Washington , M.B.Z. undertook a campaign to help establish M.B.S. as the next Saudi king . " The Saudis and the Emiratis have the most effective lobbying operation in Washington , " Ben Rhodes , Obama 's deputy national-security adviser , told me . " I would say they are more responsible for the image of Obama as being soft in the Middle East than anyone else . They trashed us all around town . " Rhodes described Yousef Al Otaiba , the U.A.E. 's Ambassador to the United States , as especially capable . Otaiba , an urbane man with a shaved head and a wardrobe of immaculately tailored suits , meets often with America 's financial and political ? lites , sometimes arriving by private jet . Otaiba extolled M.B.S. to a range of powerful ex-officials , including David Petraeus , the former general who is now at the investment firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts , and Tom Donilon , who served as President Obama 's national-security adviser . In discussions with members of the Obama Administration , he described his client in prophetic terms . " M.B.S. is going to be king for fifty years , " a former senior White House official recalled him saying . <p> Otaiba also appears to have helped organize a series of op-eds promoting M.B.S. , in which he demonstrated unusual influence over prominent Washington figures . " I know you have a P.R . firm , " Frances Townsend , former President George W. Bush 's counterterrorism adviser , wrote to Otaiba , as she proposed an article favorable to M.B.S. " Let me know if there is someone I should work with that might provide a draft for me to begin from . " The former American official with contacts in the region said that Otaiba 's work was part of a larger effort , in which the Emiratis hired other lobbyists on M.B.S. 's behalf . ( Otaiba denied this . ) " All these public-relations firms that were promoting M.B.S. in the United States were paid for by Abu Dhabi , " the official said . <p> Bin Nayef , alarmed by what he saw as foreign interference , wrote to King Salman to warn him . ( The letter was given to me by the former American official . ) " We are facing a dangerous conspiracy , " he wrote . " An Emirati plot has been exposed to help aggravate the differences within the royal court . " He added , " Bin Zayed is currently planning to use his strong relationship with the United States President to achieve his intentions . " <p> In December , 2016 , M.B.Z. flew to New York to meet with President-elect Trump , Kushner , Bannon , and Michael T. Flynn , who had been appointed national-security adviser . It 's customary for foreign leaders to notify the American government when they travel to the U.S. , but M.B.Z. did not do so . The meeting has since reportedly captured the interest of Robert Mueller , the special counsel investigating Russia 's interference in the 2016 election , who is looking into allegations that Emirati lobbyists funnelled millions of dollars to Trump-campaign donors . <p> Advertisement <p> M.B.Z. arrived at the meeting , in the Trump Tower penthouse , with an entourage of about thirty people . He was dressed in combat boots and jeans , and some of his men were armed . For most of the first hour , he and the Trump aides engaged in a relatively conventional discussion of Middle East policy , but the talk grew more animated as the two sides realized that they shared a common fixation on Iran . The meeting evolved into a planning session on how the Trump White House would confront the Iranian regime in the Gulf . <p> A few weeks later , just after the Inauguration , Kushner began advocating a new outreach to Saudi Arabia . In his plan , Trump would visit Riyadh for a summit of fifty-five Muslim-majority countries . " Jared was the engine for all this , " the former defense official said . In a single gathering , Trump could introduce himself to the Muslim world , re ? stablish America 's relationship with Saudi Arabia , put Iran on notice , and communicate to everyone present how the Administration felt about M.B.S. " The whole establishment was opposed to it -- State , D.O.D. , Treasury , everyone , " the former defense official said . There were concerns about endorsing M.B.S. and rupturing the relationship with bin Nayef . " The fear was : You ca n't engage with M.B.S. You ca n't be doing this stuff , because that 's going to upset things . It might show favoritism . We 've got a partner . Let 's stick with stability . " <p> At a meeting , aides raised reservations about the summit . " We go around the room like this for an hour or so , " the official said . " And Jared stood up and said , ' All right -- I understand this is ambitious . But we wo n't know if the Saudis will deliver unless we really test them . ' " <p> The summit , in May , 2017 , was Trump 's first overseas trip as President . The Saudis treated him as a fellow-monarch , spending an estimated sixty-eight million dollars on festivities , including a ceremony in which Trump and a group of royals danced , with swords in hand , to a traditional chant . In meetings , Bannon told me , Trump was blunt about American aims : " No. 1 , Trump said to them , Stop funding Islamic terrorism . No more fucking games . " At the summit , the Saudis , the Qataris , and others promised to fight extremism , and the Saudis agreed to pay for a jointly run counterterrorism center . The United States announced that it would sell the Saudis some hundred and ten billion dollars ' worth of arms . A Pentagon official later said , " When completed , it will be the largest single arms deal in American history . " Like the pledge to fight terrorism , these agreements were nonbinding , but Bannon maintained that Trump had produced a decisive change in Saudi policy . <p> In the American press , the summit was noted largely for its pageantry , which culminated in the opening of the counterterrorism center , where Trump , King Salman , and Sisi posed in a huddle around a luminous globe . ( The late-night host Stephen Colbert cracked , " Fellas , if I may , you need to work on your **30;1824;TOOLONG skills . " ) But , in the months that followed , a series of dramatic events suggested that the attendees had quietly made a number of major decisions . Trump declared that the U.S. would move its Embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem , something that no American President had attempted since Israel occupied the West Bank , in 1967 . M.B.S. leapfrogged over bin Nayef to become crown prince . And the Gulf monarchies , led by Saudi Arabia , entered an open confrontation with Qatar . <p> The first sign of conflict came on the evening of May 23rd , when a series of unusual quotations began to crawl across the bottom of television screens tuned to the official news agency of Qatar , a tiny , thumb-shaped emirate on the Persian Gulf . " Iran is an Islamic power in the region that can not be ignored , " one said . " Hamas is the legitimate representative of the Palestinian people , " another said . The statements would have been unremarkable , except that they were attributed to Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani , the Emir of Qatar . For a royal in the Gulf , any open endorsement of Iran is explosive . <p> Thani claimed that the remarks were fakes , planted onscreen by hackers working for enemies of Qatar , but they prompted a stern reaction . Saudi Arabia 's most prominent news network aired coverage -- widely understood to have been personally overseen by M.B.S. -- that attacked the Qatari leadership . ( " Doha has lost its mind , " a prominent intelligence official said . ) In a statement on June 5th , the Saudi government accused Qatar of " dividing internal Saudi ranks , instigating against the state , infringing on its sovereignty , adopting various terrorist and sectarian groups aimed at destabilizing the region . " The same day , Saudi Arabia and the Emirates , along with Bahrain , announced that they were blockading Qatar and breaking off diplomatic relations . The moves were effectively acts of war . <p> The Gulf countries that joined the blockade had long accused Qatar of financing terrorism and revolution across the Middle East and of aligning itself too closely with Iran . In 2013 , they were divided by the crisis in Egypt , with Qatar providing financial support for the Morsi government and the Saudis and the Emiratis backing the Army . Saudi and Emirati leaders complain about Qatar 's sponsorship of the Muslim Brotherhood and of Hamas , the Palestinian group that rules Gaza and whose roots are in the Brotherhood ; they also resent the popularity of its state-funded television network , Al Jazeera , which is often sharply critical of the Gulf monarchies . M.B.S. has spoken dismissively of Qatar as a nagging problem that can , with sufficient resolve , easily be fixed . " Qatari behavior toward the Arab countries is motivated by psychological problems , " he said . " One Saudi minister could solve the whole Qatari crisis . " <p> The U.S. government has a complex relationship with Qatar , which has often been willing to facilitate difficult diplomatic maneuvers . Although the United States lists Hamas as a terrorist organization , a former American diplomat told me that after the group 's leader , Khaled Meshal , was forced to flee the Assad regime , in 2012 , American diplomats asked the Qataris to take him in . Since then , he has lived in a compound around the corner from the U.S. Ambassador 's residence . The Qataris also host a de-facto embassy for the Taliban , where U.S. diplomats can speak with Taliban officials ; Bo Bergdahl , an American soldier who had been captured by the Taliban in Afghanistan , was released through negotiations conducted there . Perhaps most important , Qatar is the site of Al Udeid Air Base , the U.S. military 's principal forward base in the region , which houses some eleven thousand military personnel and hundreds of combat aircraft . The Qataris funded its construction and continue to pay most of its operating costs . " All of these things , we have done at the request of the Americans or in co ? rdination with them , " Qatar 's foreign minister , Mohammed bin Abdulrahman , told me . <p> Nevertheless , after the blockade began , President Trump tweeted his support , writing , " During my recent trip to the Middle East I stated that there can no longer be funding of Radical Ideology . Leaders pointed to Qatar -- look ! " ( The former American diplomat suggested that his enthusiasm was partly motivated by ignorance : " I am convinced that Trump did n't know that we had a military base in Qatar . He had no idea . " ) Other senior officials expressed horror . Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Secretary of Defense James Mattis were on a trip to Australia when the crisis broke , and were taken by surprise . " Tillerson was very upset , " a senior State Department official told me . " He could n't believe that the Saudis and the others would try something like that . " Tillerson began working to ease tensions . Mattis called the Saudis and urged them to stand down . " Mattis told M.B.S. , ' It 's not the time for a war , ' " a former senior Pentagon official told me . " The phone call did n't go very well . " American officials became so worried about the possibility of a military clash that they sent a drone to monitor the border . <p> Advertisement <p> In the days that followed , the Saudis and their allies imposed conditions that appeared designed to reduce Qatar to a vassal state ; in order for the blockade to be lifted , the country would , among other things , have to close Al Jazeera and sever relations with Iran . American officials concluded that M.B.S. and M.B.Z. were preparing to overthrow Qatar 's government . " They have made it clear , privately and publicly , that their intention was to replace the Emir , " the former American diplomat told me . " I think they were going to invade . " Qatar presented an almost irresistible target : though its population is barely three hundred thousand , it controls one of the world 's largest natural-gas fields and has a sovereign wealth fund worth an estimated three hundred billion dollars . " If you look at it from a financial perspective , invading Qatar makes a lot of sense , " the diplomat said . The government of Turkey , which had a military base in the capital , sent a new detachment of soldiers . <p> Behind the scenes , there were indications that the plan had been approved at the summit in Riyadh . As the blockade was getting under way , a senior American official received a telephone call just before midnight from Yousef Al Otaiba , the Emirati Ambassador , who told him what was happening . " I was very angry , " the official told me . " I tried to talk him out of it . " When the official complained that the State Department had been given no notice , Otaiba suggested that he 'd already announced it to the Administration . " I 've informed the White House , " he said . A former American intelligence official told me it was inconceivable that the Saudis or the Emiratis would have acted without approval from the U.S. " I think it 's pretty well understood that the White House gave the green light , " the official told me . ( A senior Administration official denied this . ) <p> American diplomats knew almost nothing about what was happening between the White House and the Gulf monarchies . More than a year into Trump 's term , he still has not named an Ambassador to Saudi Arabia . " Nobody knows what happened in Riyadh , because there were no diplomats in the room , " the former American diplomat told me . At a speech several months after the crisis in Qatar erupted , Bannon told an American audience , " I do n't think it was just by happenstance that , two weeks after that summit , we saw the blockade . " <p> " We 're doing everything we can to make him comfortable , short of dressing up as male doctors . " <p> Some Qataris speculate that Kushner endorsed the blockade partly out of frustration over a failed deal with his family 's real-estate firm . In April , a month before the summit , Qatar 's finance minister , Ali Sharif al-Emadi , flew to New York to examine new investment opportunities . He and his entourage rented a suite at the St. Regis Hotel , cleared away most of the furniture , and received a long line of American businessmen who were looking for funding . According to a financial analyst with knowledge of the meeting , among the hopefuls were Kushner 's father , Charles , and his sister Nicole . They came seeking money to rescue the family 's signature property , 666 Fifth Avenue -- a forty-one-story tower in midtown Manhattan , which generates gallingly low returns and carries a mortgage , due next February , of $1.2 billion . <p> Charles Kushner has maintained that the Qataris requested the meeting , and that he attended out of politeness but was too wary of conflicts of interest to accept funding . The financial analyst , however , said that Kushner pitched a huge renovation of the property , which included bringing in retail stores and converting offices to residences , and hosted a follow-up meeting the next day at 666 Fifth Avenue . " He asked for just under a billion dollars , " he told me . The Qataris declined , citing dubious business logic . " They could have bought the building -- believe me , they have the money , " the analyst said . " They just did n't think it would ever pay off . " The analyst worried that refusing the deal had a political cost . " Here 's a question for you : If they had given Kushner the money , would there have been a blockade ? I do n't think so . " <p> As the conflict wore on , op-ed writers and social-media posts kept up a drumbeat against Qatar . Many of them came from a curious source : the SCL Group , the parent company of the political-research firm Cambridge Analytica . ( Before the election , Bannon was a vice-president of Cambridge Analytica , which was financed by Robert Mercer , the billionaire investor and Trump supporter . ) SCL had been retained by the Emirati government ; this was not known at the time , because the firm did not declare to the U.S. government that it was working for the U.A.E. until the following month . <p> Eventually , U.S. intelligence analysts determined that the Qataris had been telling the truth : the televised statements attributed to Emir Thani had been fabricated by hackers hired by the United Arab Emirates . " The hacking was a pretext for us to be attacked , " bin Abdulrahman , the Qatari foreign minister , told me . Other indications emerged that the crisis had been premeditated . Last summer , Otaiba 's e-mails were hacked . Financial documents found among them showed that Emirati officials had , through a bank in Luxembourg , plotted a campaign of financial warfare aimed at causing Qatar 's currency to crash . <p> Qatar remains under blockade by the allied countries in the Gulf . The blockade has inflicted deep losses on the economy and forced leaders to find alternative sources of food and consumer goods . But the Qataris are rich enough to endure without too much hardship , and they have emerged from the crisis as objects of sympathy . In June , Mattis approved a deal to sell Qatar twelve billion dollars ' worth of American-made F-15 fighter jets . At a subsequent gathering , Tillerson reassured regional officials that Qatar was a " strong partner and longtime friend of the United States . " <p> On the evening of June 21st , viewers of Al Arabiya , the Saudi state news channel , witnessed a surreal scene : M.B.S. , his face shrouded by a red-and-white checked kaffiyeh , strode up to his rival bin Nayef , theatrically kissed his hand , and dropped to his knees . Before M.B.S. could explain himself , bin Nayef declared his fidelity to his cousin : " I pledge allegiance to you , through the best and the worst . " M.B.S. stood up and , furiously shaking bin Nayef 's hand , offered his own affirmation : " We will always seek your guidance . " The film clip , twenty-four seconds long , was intended to announce that M.B.S. had peacefully succeeded bin Nayef as the next king of Saudi Arabia . <p> In fact , the transfer of power was anything but amicable . The night before , according to Saudi and American sources , bin Nayef had been summoned to a meeting with King Salman . At the palace , guards surrounded him , confiscated his phone , and demanded that he abdicate . Bin Nayef refused . According to the former American official with contacts in the region , he was forced to stand for several hours , which , because of lingering injuries from the suicide attack , caused excruciating pain . One source told me that the guards threatened to announce that bin Nayef was addicted to painkillers , an allegation that the former American official dismissed : " I really doubt he did anything like that . " <p> As dawn neared , bin Nayef agreed to surrender his position . M.B.S. installed a new interior minister , a relative believed to be loyal to him . Bin Nayef was confined to his house , where even some of his most powerful American friends , including the former C.I.A . directors George Tenet and John Brennan , were not able to reach him . M.B.S. 's way to the throne was finally clear . <p> Advertisement <p> In the months that followed , M.B.S. pushed a sweeping reform agenda , decreeing , among other things , that women be allowed to drive . The Saudi state has long ruled through an alliance with the standard-bearers of the Wahhabi creed , who , in exchange for their loyalty , were given permission to disseminate stringent and antiquated doctrines . M.B.S. drastically scaled back funding for the spread of Wahhabism abroad , which many experts believe to be responsible for encouraging terrorism and virulently anti-Western ideas . " All we are doing is going back to what we were -- moderate Islam that is open to all religions and open to the world , " M.B.S. told a gathering at the Ritz-Carlton in Riyadh , in October . " We will not waste thirty years of our lives in dealing with extremist ideas . We will destroy them today . " <p> These moves drew widespread , if not unanimous , praise in the West . Thomas Friedman , the influential foreign-affairs columnist for the Times , described visiting M.B.S. and returning convinced that his reforms , if they succeed , " will not only change the character of Saudi Arabia but the tone and tenor of Islam across the globe . " Friedman wrote that the young crown prince had kept him up until one-thirty in the morning , discussing national renewal until he pleaded exhaustion . " It has been a long time , " he wrote , " since any Arab leader wore me out with a fire hose of new ideas for transforming his country . " The column inspired outrage among critics of Saudi Arabia . The Al Jazeera journalist Mehdi Hasan called it " an embarrassment . " At a Brookings Institution event a few days later , Friedman responded brusquely . " I got news for you -- the entire Arab world is dysfunctional right now , " he said . " And so when I see someone who is having the balls to take on the religious component of that , to take on the economic component , to take on the political , with all of his flaws . . . I wan na stick my head up and say , ' God , I hope you succeed . ' And when you do that the holy hell comes down on you . Well , ' Fuck that ' is my view , O.K. ? " <p> As M.B.S. was being debated in the Western media , he began to systematically eliminate any potential opponents of his rule . In the next several months , Saudi police enforced a crackdown on what remained of the country 's independent press and pro-reform groups , arresting human-rights activists , pro-democracy organizers , and prominent journalists . " Most of the clerics he is arresting are not the hard-line clerics but the reformers -- because they are popular , " Jamal Khashoggi , a Saudi journalist who recently fled to the U.S. , told me . <p> Soon after becoming crown prince , M.B.S. had asked Western and Saudi banks to help assemble a financial picture of the country 's wealthiest men . On November 4th , he sent police across the country to arrest scores of people , including more than a dozen members of the royal family , on allegations of corruption . It was a breathtaking assault on the most powerful class of Saudis , who had enriched themselves , often with bribes and kickbacks facilitated by links to the royal family . M.B.S. warned , " Anyone who is involved in corruption will not be spared , whether he is a prince , a minister , or whoever he is . If there is enough evidence against him , he will be held accountable . " <p> Some two hundred detainees were brought to the Ritz-Carlton in Riyadh -- a domain for princes , but not usually for princes under arrest . Among them were the country 's leading plutocrats , including a dozen senior princes , the owner of one of the country 's major television networks , the head of the national guard , and Al-Waleed bin Talal , a major shareholder in Citibank , 21st Century Fox , Apple , and Twitter , who has a net worth of seventeen billion dollars . Many were rattled by their first encounter with any restrictions on their lives . Ali Shihabi , who runs a pro-Saudi think tank in Washington , spoke to several detainees , and told me that everyone endured the same protocol : They were told to remove their clothes and were given a uniform and a medical exam , during which they were asked if they were taking any prescription drugs . Then they were led to guarded rooms , where the doors had been removed , along with the mirrors and anything else that they might use to harm themselves . " They could watch TV , order room service , " Shihabi told me . " They just could n't leave . " <p> Then the interrogations began , with police and investigators presenting the detained Saudis with purported evidence of their misdeeds . A figure was usually arrived at -- under coercion -- and , once the detainees paid up and signed a nondisclosure agreement , they were free to leave . " There was no due process of any sort , no courts , no judges , no warrants -- none of that , " a Western diplomat told me . Many wealthy Saudis who were not targeted in the crackdown frantically moved their money out of the country , the beginning of a capital flight that totalled millions of dollars a month . <p> While M.B.S. was preaching austerity to his countrymen , he seemed unwilling to restrain himself . In 2015 , while vacationing in the South of France , he had bought a yacht , the Serene , from a Russian vodka tycoon , for five hundred and fifty million dollars . He bought a ch ? teau west of Paris , with a cinema and a moat with a submerged glass chamber for viewing carp . And , last November , he reportedly spent four hundred and fifty million on " Salvator Mundi , " the Leonardo da Vinci portrait of Jesus Christ . A spokesman for the royal family dismissed the reports , saying that a distant relative of M.B.S. had bought the painting ; it was meant to hang in the newly opened Louvre Abu Dhabi , where the crown prince 's friend M.B.Z. had recently welcomed the first visitors . <p> In the Saudi and the Western media , M.B.S. described the arrests as a crackdown on corruption , which , he claims , has recovered more than a hundred billion dollars for the state . " He was sending a message that the old era was over , that corruption would no longer be tolerated , " Bernard Haykel , a professor of Near Eastern studies at Princeton who has often met with the crown prince , told me . M.B.S. seems happy to have amplified his message , even if it was through brutal interrogations . At least one prominent Saudi died , in unclear circumstances . According to a Saudi with knowledge of the events , Ali al-Qahtani , a retired Army general , died of a heart attack after being subjected to harsh treatment during interrogation in the Ritz . ( The Saudi government has denied abuse . ) A detainee also told the Saudi that Amr al-Dabbagh , a former senior official with the Saudi Investment Authority , was subjected to electric shocks at the hotel . Some of those who had been inside the Ritz-Carlton reported that the captors spoke English to one another , which raised the possibility that M.B.S. had recruited foreigners to help him . <p> Haykel defended the detentions , saying that without them Saudi Arabia would continue on its unsustainable path . " M.B.S. knows that the system is incapable of reforming itself , " he said . " Why ? Because the system as it presently stands has lots of royals and hangers-on and businessmen who are feeding at the trough and will never agree to disenfranchise themselves . " Even so , it seems clear that M.B.S. 's campaign functioned at least as much as an attack on those who might constitute a threat to his rule . Many of those arrested were relatives of previous kings -- young men who considered themselves possible heirs to the throne , or at least to some aspect of the kingdom 's power . The most telling arrest was that of Prince Miteb bin Abdullah , the head of the national guard and a son of the late King Abdullah . By removing Miteb , M.B.S. gained effective control over all three of the country 's security branches : the Army , the interior ministry , and the national guard . " He can do whatever he wants now , " Khashoggi , the Saudi journalist , said . " All the checks and balances are gone . " <p> Advertisement <p> In late October , Kushner paid an unpublicized visit to M.B.S. , his third trip to the kingdom since the election . Though Kushner was supposed to focus on a plan for peace between Israel and Palestine , he had evidently decided that the more pressing goal was to unite the region against Iran . <p> Soon after Kushner departed , M.B.S. held a meeting with Mahmoud Abbas , the leader of the Palestinian Authority , to discuss the prospects for peace in the Middle East . According to a former Obama Administration official , the Saudis presented a plan that was radically favorable to Israel . It would recognize Israel 's claims to Jerusalem and ratify nearly all of its settlements in the West Bank , offering the Palestinians only limited autonomy in areas under their control . A senior Palestinian official told me that Arab leaders have been applying intense pressure to Abbas , apparently in co ? peration with the Trump Administration : " The whole idea is to settle the Jerusalem issue , so the White House can build a united front against Iran . " But , he said , " if Jerusalem is on the table , we will never do it . " <p> Around the same time , M.B.S. summoned Saad Hariri , the Lebanese Prime Minister , to Riyadh . Hariri got the call as he was preparing for lunch with Fran ? oise Nyssen , the French minister of culture , but he was not in a position to ignore M.B.S. Hariri was a Saudi citizen , and his construction company , Saudi Oger , which was deeply in debt , had done millions of dollars ' worth of projects for the Saudi state . <p> M.B.S. 's relationship with Hariri had deteriorated because of the ongoing proxy war with Iran . Since the Saudis and the Emiratis intervened in Yemen , nearly three years earlier , things had gone disastrously wrong . The Houthis still occupied the capital , and Iranian ? lite commandos and operatives from Hezbollah were training new rebel fighters . Even more pressing , the Iranians had smuggled in missiles , which the rebels were using to bombard Saudi Arabia . In an effort to stop the missiles , the Saudis and the Emiratis blockaded Yemeni ports , which intensified the humanitarian disaster . More than ten thousand people have died , and hundreds of thousands more are facing famine and outbreaks of cholera . <p> Adding to M.B.S. 's anxiety was Hezbollah 's position inside Lebanon . Since the Lebanese civil war ended , in 1990 , Saudi Arabia had given the country billions of dollars to help it rebuild , only to watch as Hezbollah grew into the strongest party and the dominant military force . For several years , the American and the Saudi governments had teamed up to build a Lebanese Army as a counterweight . In 2016 , a year after M.B.S. took over as defense minister , he cancelled three billion dollars of military aid , concluding that it was a waste of money . " He felt like every dollar he sent to Lebanon was supporting Hezbollah , " the former American official who sees M.B.S. periodically told me . <p> The Saudis hoped that Hariri would be able to confront Hezbollah . He was a Sunni , and an experienced politician , who had served as Prime Minister from 2009 to 2011 , when he fled to Paris , largely out of fear that Hezbollah was preparing to kill him . ( His fears were not unfounded . In 2005 , his father , Rafik , another Saudi-backed Prime Minister , was killed in a car-bomb attack , for which a U.N . tribunal has indicted four members of Hezbollah . ) In 2016 , after two years of parliamentary deadlock , in which the country operated without a head of state , he returned and took office . <p> But Hariri was unable to thwart Hezbollah , even as M.B.S. pushed him to take a tougher stand . The breaking point came in early November . As the rebels continued to fire missiles across the border , Ali Velayati , a senior Iranian leader , flew to Lebanon and met with Hariri . According to the former American official , Velayati said that Iran intended to continue asserting itself in the region . Afterward , Hariri posed , smiling , for a picture with him . When word reached M.B.S. , he was enraged . " He felt like he had to do something , " the official said . <p> When Hariri was summoned to meet M.B.S. , he expected a warm reception from the royal family . " Saad was thinking that all his problems with M.B.S. would be solved , " an aide to Hariri told me . Instead , in Riyadh , he was confronted by police , who took him into custody . According to two former American officials active in the region , he was held for eleven hours . " The Saudis put him in a chair , and they slapped him repeatedly , " one of the officials told me . ( Hariri 's spokesman denied this . ) At the end , in a surreal video that was played on Saudi television , Hariri , looking exhausted and drawn , read a resignation speech , claiming that he had fled Lebanon to evade an Iranian plot to kill him . Hariri , who is usually soft-spoken , declared that " Iran 's hands in the region will be cut off " -- a statement that convinced many Lebanese that the speech had been written by someone else . <p> It was unclear who would become Lebanon 's new Prime Minister ; according to Lebanese and Western officials I spoke to , M.B.S. had tried to enlist Hariri 's brother , Bahaa , who spends much of his time in Monaco , to take the position . A senior American official in the Middle East told me that the plot was " the dumbest thing I 've ever seen . " But there were indications that M.B.S. had co ? rdinated his moves with the Trump Administration , possibly at the summit in Riyadh . A former senior intelligence official who is close to the White House told me that M.B.S. had received a " green light " to remove Hariri . ( A senior Administration official denied this . ) " It 's disruptive , " the intelligence official told me . " The status quo in the Middle East does n't work . They want to break it up . " <p> Western officials , caught off guard by Hariri 's detention , rallied to save him . Tillerson released a statement , saying , " The United States supports the stability of Lebanon and is opposed to any actions that could threaten that stability . " Emmanuel Macron , the French President , visited M.B.S. and pressed him to release Hariri . According to a Western diplomat with knowledge of the exchange , M.B.S. opened the conversation by threatening to cut off trade with France unless Macron stopped doing business with Iran . Macron gently replied that a country like France was free to trade with whomever it wished . " Macron handled it very well , and M.B.S. backed down , " the diplomat told me . <p> Ultimately , the plan collapsed when most of the Lebanese political establishment protested Hariri 's captivity . Two weeks after he had arrived , Hariri was on a plane , going first to meet with officials in Paris and Cairo , and then on to Beirut , where he basked in sympathy . " The whole country is unified around him , " a senior Hezbollah leader told me . <p> Several days after his return , I went to see Hariri in Beirut . He lives in the Beit al-Wasat neighborhood , inside a high-walled compound of exquisitely restored villas with views of the Mediterranean ; a few doors down sits the Maghen Abraham synagogue , destroyed during the civil war and rebuilt with the help of Hariri 's family . Despite the grand surroundings , he seemed less a returning hero than an exhausted former prisoner . " I do n't want to talk about what just happened , " he said , slumped behind his desk . " M.B.S. was right , O.K. ? What he is trying to do is right . " <p> Advertisement <p> In March , M.B.S. began a two-week tour of the U.S. , in which he travelled to New York , Boston , Houston , and Los Angeles , seeking investments and attempting to build good will . News stories had begun to spread about M.B.S. 's relationship with the White House , including one in which he reportedly said that Jared Kushner was " in his pocket . " Still , at a meeting in the White House Cabinet Room , Trump and Kushner received him warmly . " Saudi Arabia is a very wealthy nation , " Trump said afterward , in the Rose Garden . " And they 're going to give the United States some of that wealth , hopefully , in the form of jobs , in the form of the purchase of the finest military equipment anywhere in the world . " That same day , the Senate blocked a resolution to limit U.S. involvement in the war in Yemen . <p> In Saudi Arabia , too , M.B.S. is encountering little resistance . " Working for M.B.S. is a blessing , " Mohammad al-Shaikh , the Saudi minister of state , told me . " He 's just gifted . " Shaikh spoke of ambitious ventures throughout the country : a hundred and ten miles of subway track being dug under Riyadh ; a megacity , called Neom , to be constructed on the Red Sea coast . The cost would be tremendous , he acknowledged , but he said that it would be offset by efficiencies in government , achieved by a newly formed agency called the Bureau of Capital and Operational Spending Rationalization . He described the changes as a kind of enlightened revolution . " It 's a choice , " he said . " It 's not the Arab Spring . This is the leadership deciding that we have a huge potential we need to unlock . " <p> But , as sweeping as M.B.S. 's economic and cultural reforms may be , he has expressed no interest in liberalizing the country 's political system . Indeed , the model that seems to best conform to his vision is China , with its dynamic economy , literate population , and authoritarian rule . Experts on the Saudi system , including those who admire M.B.S. , say that his efforts are being carried out with one overriding goal : to preserve the House of Saud . <p> As M.B.S. neared the end of his first year as crown prince , his position seemed secure . He had eliminated or silenced nearly all potential opposition to his rule . He replaced the generals in charge of the war in Yemen and pushed ahead with his plans to privatize Saudi Arabia 's oil industry . <p> At the same time , the waves of arrests created a climate of fear in which even the tamest criticism of the government was labelled disloyal . His purges of rivals , and his creation of what amounted to a cult of personality , appeared designed to place on M.B.S. the entire burden of governing and to leave the country 's institutions enfeebled . His rapid modernization and anti-corruption initiatives , whatever their motivations , seemed sure to inspire legions of enemies . Still , his supporters in both Washington and Riyadh feel that , whatever his faults , the alternative would be worse . <p> In the White House , Kushner 's power has been diminished , as his security clearance was revoked amid a series of scandals . But the appointments of Mike Pompeo as Secretary of State and John Bolton as national-security adviser presage an even more hawkish era , in which there will be few constraints on M.B.S. 's regional ambitions . " No one would have thought that the Saudi leader could take on the royal family , the clerical establishment , and the country 's most powerful businessmen , but he did , " a former American official who has dealt with M.B.S. told me . " But success at home convinced him he could get away with the things he did abroad . M.B.S. has always had a combination of vision , hubris , and arrogance , all of which are now playing out . What troubles me about M.B.S. is , he learns from his successes , but not his failures . That 's the danger . " ? <p> An earlier version of this piece misstated the reach of the Safavid Empire . It also misstated the proposed location of the U.S. Embassy in Israel . <p> Published in the print edition of the April 9 , 2018 , issue , with the headline " The Ascent . " 
@@83960542 <h> Posted ! <h> Join the Conversation <h> Comments <p> Welcome to our new and improved comments , which are for subscribers only . This is a test to see whether we can improve the experience for you . You do not need a Facebook profile to participate . <p> You will need to register before adding a comment . Typed comments will be lost if you are not logged in . <p> Please be polite . It 's OK to disagree with someone 's ideas , but personal attacks , insults , threats , hate speech , advocating violence and other violations can result in a ban . If you see comments in violation of our community guidelines , please report them . <p> OPINION <h> Letter : Stop the Palestinian ' apartheid ' <p> Since 1980 , the Michigan Coalition for Human Rights has opposed apartheid . We write now , 40 years later , in anguished protest of the rise of apartheid again -- not in Africa , but in Israel-occupied Palestinian lands . Trump 's " deal of the century " officially endorses Palestinian " bantustans , " holding Palestinians in open-air prisons , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would transfer to Israel : East Jerusalem , the intended capitol of an independent Palestinian state ; all Israeli West Bank " settlements , " including Ariel , built on and controlling the West Bank 's largest aquifer ; and the West Bank 's most fertile land : the Jordan Valley , the Palestinian " breadbasket . " The plan gravely violates Palestinian rights under international law , including U.N . Res. 242 , making an occupying power 's seizure of occupied land unlawful . <p> Israeli soldiers fire tear gas towards Palestinians during clashes in the West Bank city of Bethlehem , Thursday , Feb. 6 , 2020 . Israeli forces have killed two Palestinians in clashes in the occupied West Bank and a third in Jerusalem after he opened fire at a police officer . ( Photo : Mahmoud Illean , AP ) <p> What 's left for Palestinians are three isolated islands , separated fully from each other by east/west belts of Israeli settlements , each running entirely across the designated Palestinian West Bank areas ; Gaza ; and two isolated enclaves on the Egyptian border . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.N . <p> Palestinians win no freedom of movement ; Israel retains checkpoints and broad " security " powers over Palestinians , including even children going to and from school when not barred by IDF soldiers , armed to the teeth , who arbitrarily deny passage . They would still be barred from traveling on the Israeli-only roads connecting Israeli West Bank settlements with jobs and society within Israel . <p> The plan tells Palestinians to build a tunnel or bridge to travel between Gaza and the West Bank , a distance of nearly 40 miles at the closest point . And Palestine would remain barred from creating a Palestinian army , rendering it helpless against attack . <p> Yet the U.S. , including such major news media as the New York Times and Washington Post , urges Palestinians to accept this " deal , " reasoning that nothing better may be forthcoming . <p> But the " deal of the century " accepts Israeli crimes against Palestinians as a permissible status quo ; it becomes acceptable to force Palestinians to demilitarize but not Israel , and for Palestinians to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 20% of the West Bank on top of the 78% of historic Palestine . <p> We refuse to remain silent in the face of such injustice -- an act of hypocrisy and bullying against a powerless indigenous community and culture facing extinction . Palestinians deserve dignity , freedom and equality , just as Israeli Jews do . 
@@83970044 <h> Israel 's ' Groundhog Day ' : Hold Elections . Call Another Vote . Repeat <p> Billboards show Benjamin Netanyahu ( right ) and rival candidate Benny Gantz in Bnei Brak , Israel , on Feb. 23 . The sign in the foreground , for Netanyahu 's Likud party , reads " Likud members , go out to vote , victory depends only on you . " <p> Oded Balilty / AP <p> Listen <p> Listening ... <p> / <p> Originally published on March 2 , 2020 12:59 pm <p> Updated on March 2 at 10:21 a.m . ET <p> After two failed tries , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is hoping to win another term on Monday in the country 's unprecedented third election in less than a year . <p> Netanyahu is Israel 's longest-serving prime minister , in office for more than a decade . He has led the country as it turned politically further to the right during a period of economic growth . He hardened Israel 's policies toward Palestinians and became a leading ally of President Trump , who has sweetened Netanyahu 's reelection campaign with diplomatic gestures and Oval Office photo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a cloud of corruption charges . <p> To solidify his grip on power , Netanyahu called April elections in which he failed to win enough support in parliament to form a new government . So he orchestrated a repeat vote -- a stunning blitz to block the centrist candidate , retired Gen. Benny Gantz , from taking his job . <p> In the second elections , neither Netanyahu 's Likud party nor Gantz 's Blue and White coalition had enough votes to form a government , and they could n't agree on a power-sharing deal . Now Israelis are being dragged into a third exasperating round of elections . <p> Why 's it so hard to form a government ? <p> Eight main parties or coalitions of parties are vying for votes in Israel 's legislative elections , and none is expected to win a majority of parliament 's 120 seats . Whichever front-runner can form a majority coalition with other parties is the victor . <p> For years , Netanyahu has managed to stay in office by partnering with mostly right-wing and religious Jewish parties . A slightly larger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year . But one right-wing party , led by former Defense MinisterAvigdor Lieberman , no longer supports Netanyahu , leaving the incumbent without a majority . Netanyahu has acted as interim prime minister while the elections have been inconclusive . <p> Meanwhile , Gantz has n't been able to muster his own center-left majority in parliament , hence the political standoff . <p> Will the results be any different this time or is Israel destined for a fourth round of elections ? <p> Brace yourself for a possible fourth election . A Likud party campaign official tells NPR the party is even saving campaign funds in case there is another vote . <p> Friday 's opinion polls , the last to be published before the election , suggest another stalemate between Netanyahu and Gantz . None of the parties seem willing to budge from their ideological corner to tip the scales . <p> There are some new factors that could work against Netanyahu . He has been indicted for alleged bribery and fraud , his corruption trial is scheduled to begin in two weeks and the charges could cause some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Or justice officials could rule it would be improper for an indicted prime minister to form a new government . Gantz , whose slogan is " We Must Move Forward , " claims Netanyahu would weaken democratic institutions if reelected and promises to heal Israeli society after Netanyahu 's divisive years . <p> Other factors work in Netanyahu 's favor . He has n't seen his support slip much . He remains defiant against the justice system , touts his close ties with President Trump as in the previous votes and convinces his right-wing supporters his opponent is tainted by the support of Arab parties . He is running an effective reelection campaign , appealing to swing voters such as Ethiopian Jewish immigrants and gathering Likud supporters ' telephone numbers for a massive get-out-the-vote drive . His Likud party has a phone app aiming to draw potential voters who do n't normally go to the polls , though it inadvertently made some of their personal information vulnerable to hackers . <p> Turnout could be key . Many Israelis are tired of the repeated elections and could stay home , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Gantz 's supporters came to the polls in a bigger percentage than did Netanyahu 's . <p> Will President Trump 's Mideast peace plan affect the vote ? <p> Though the Trump administration 's proposal for peace heavily favors Israel , and Netanyahu has touted it on the campaign trail to win over the right-wing , polls suggest it may not have tilted the vote . <p> The Trump proposal gives a green light for Israel to defy objections in the international community and annex Jewish settlements and other lands in the West Bank , occupied territory the Palestinians seek for their independent state . But the move got complicated quickly for Netanyahu and the White House , which told Israel to hold off on annexation for now , leading Netanyahu 's settler supporters to question if Netanyahu would ever pull it off . <p> Gantz 's party does not want to rush on annexation without international approval . Most countries regard Israeli settlements and land annexation as violations of international law . <p> Palestinian Arab citizens of Israel may be motivated by Trump 's plan to show up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ winning . The proposal suggests the " triangle " area in northern Israel with a large concentration of Arab Israeli citizens could be given to a future Palestinian state , angering some Arab voters who seek equality in Israel . <p> How are Palestinians affected by the vote ? <p> Palestinians in the Israeli-occupied West Bank do not have Israeli citizenship and do not get to vote in Monday 's elections . Neither do Palestinians in Gaza . But the outcome of the vote will directly affect their lives . <p> If Netanyahu wins and carries out his promise to annex West Bank lands , it would be an explosive move that Palestinian leaders would see as a nail in the coffin of a viable independent Palestinian state , distancing the sides from any compromise , perhaps leading to violence or increased calls for citizenship within Israel , a nightmare scenario for most Israelis . <p> Some Palestinians see little difference between the candidates and say Israeli discriminatory policies will continue . But Palestinian officials close to President Mahmoud Abbas are said to favor Gantz , who may take a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gantz has many former Netanyahu supporters on his party list who oppose concessions to Palestinians . <p> Ironically , Hamas in Gaza has benefitted lately from Netanyahu , who is hawkish toward the Palestinians but nevertheless has allowed cash into Gaza and eased Israeli restrictions on Gazans in a deal to reduce violence . Gantz criticizes that policy and promises a more forceful military takedown of Hamas in Gaza . 
@@84045842 <p> WASHINGTON - Last night , the US Campaign for Palestinian Rights ( USCPR ) moved to dismiss a meritless lawsuit filed against it by the Jewish National Fund ( JNF ) and several individuals . Human rights attorneys say the lawsuit targets USCPR 's support of Palestinian rights and is intended to chill them from engaging in constitutionally protected advocacy . <p> " The fact that we 're under attack is no surprise : human rights defenders around the world are under attack from repressive regimes and their allies . This lawsuit is part of this global , right-wing assault on civil society and movements seeking to build a better future for all , " said Ramah Kudaimi , US Campaign for Palestinian Rights Deputy Director . " We will not be intimidated , and our work dedicated to the rights of the Palestinian people -- work that is grounded in the principles of equal rights , justice , and freedom for all -- will continue . " <p> Attorneys say the lawsuit makes outlandish claims , casting collective activism and expressions of solidarity as unlawful . Plaintiffs base their far-fetched accusations of conspiracy and material support for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for boycotts , divestment , and sanctions against Israel until it complies with international law . Their claims also rely on USCPR 's criticism of Israel 's unlawful use of force against Palestinian demonstrators in Gaza who are demanding their internationally recognized right of return to their homes , as well as its participation in the Stop the JNF Campaign aimed at exposing and challenging the JNF 's role in dispossessing Palestinians of their land . <p> In arguing for dismissal of JNF 's lawsuit against USCPR , attorneys emphasized the threat to free speech and association if a group of activists can be sued on such tenuous theories of liability . <p> " Anyone who cares about civil liberties and human rights should be deeply concerned by the frivolous and malicious lobbing of accusations of conspiracy and terrorism at a human rights organization , " said Diala Shamas , a staff attorney at the Center for Constitutional Rights . " This case is part of a broader and well-resourced effort to attack advocates for Palestinian rights -- whether through anti-boycott legislation , university administrations silencing student activists , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We will continue to support movements as they advocate for rights and dignity . " <p> The JNF , or Keren Kayemeth LeIsrael , is a quasi-state institution in Israel that acquires and administers land for the sole benefit of Jewish people . The JNF has been instrumental in the Israeli state 's dispossession of the Palestinian people . While the JNF has been the target of lawsuits for its discriminatory policies , this is the first time it has tried to use US courts to silence critics . <p> Lawyers say the lawsuit is part of a broad and growing pattern of suppressing activism in support of Palestinian rights , a phenomenon that the Center for Constitutional Rights and Palestine Legal have documented and called the " Palestine Exception " to free speech . The organizations report the widespread use of administrative disciplinary actions , harassment , firings , legislative attacks , false accusations of terrorism and antisemitism , and baseless legal complaints . Palestine Legal has responded to 1,494 incidents of suppression targeting speech supportive of Palestinian rights between 2014 and 2019 . See 2019 Year in Review @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ JNF v. US Campaign for Palestinian Rights with cooperating counsel Judith Chomsky , Beth Stephens , and Michael Deutsch . <h> This is the world we live in . This is the world we cover . <p> Because of people like you , another world is possible . There are many battles to be won , but we will battle them together -- all of us . Common Dreams is not your normal news outlet . We do n't survive on clicks . We do n't want advertising dollars . We want the world to be a better place . But we ca n't do it alone . It does n't work that way . We need you . If you can help today -- because every gift of every size matters -- please do . Without Your Support We Wo n't Exist . <p> Please select a donation method : <p> The Center for Constitutional Rights is dedicated to advancing and protecting the rights guaranteed by the United States Constitution and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights . Founded in 1966 by attorneys who represented civil rights movements in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization committed to the creative use of law as a positive force for social change . <h> Further <p> Always eager to use any crass opportunity for a tone-deaf photo-op , Nepotism Barbie 's now transformed into Pandemic Barbie to urge families stuck at home to play " living room camp out ! " " Throw a bedsheet ( over ) brooms , " says Ivanka in a ( recycled ) photo with her kids in a slick , shimmery tableau . It did not go well , with many posting photos of kids in cages : " In door camping ! How fun ! Where are their mommies ? " Enraged consensus : " So cute . Go fuck yourself . " <h> Common Dreams brings you the news that matters . <h> Sign up for Newsletter <h> Connect With Us <h> Support our common dreams . <h> Can We Count on Your Help Today ? <p> Common Dreams is a small nonprofit with a big mission . Every day of the week , we publish the most important breaking news &amp; views for the progressive community . To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , sell subscriptions or accept corporate contributions . Instead , we rely on readers like you , to provide the " people power " that fuels our work . Please help keep Common Dreams alive by making a contribution . Thank you . - Craig Brown , Co-founder <p> Support Our Work -- Join the small group of generous readers who donate , keeping Common Dreams free for millions of people each year . Every donation -- large or small -- helps us bring you the news that matters . <p> Support Our Work -- Join the small group of generous readers who donate , keeping Common Dreams free for millions of people each year . Every donation -- large or small -- helps us bring you the news that matters . 
@@84102445 <h> Iranian official involved with Ron Arad mystery dies of coronavirus <h> " Sheikholeslam 's death is the most significant of the Iranian senior officials to have died from the coronavirus so far " <p> By JERUSALEM POST STAFF <p> MARCH 9 , 2020 17:51 <p> Iranian official involved in US embassy hostage crisis dies of coronavirus <p> ( photo credit : WIKIPEDIA ) <p> Former Iranian Foreign Ministry advisor Hossein Sheikholeslam , 68 , died on Thursday after contracting coronavirus earlier in the week , according to Radio Farda . Sheikholeslam tested positive for the virus two days prior and was taken to a local hospital in Tehran where all infected Iranian officials are currently being treated . <p> The Iranian official was considered to be involved with the Ron Arad Mystery , according to Ynet News . <p> Israeli Air Force Navigator Ron Arad was taken captive in Lebanon in 1986 after a bombing mission over southern Lebanon . His plane was severely damaged when one of its ordinances prematurely exploded near the aircraft . <p> Arad was listed as missing in action by the IDF for 31 years , until two intelligence reports by IDF intelligence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . <p> " Sheikholeslam 's death is the most significant of the Iranian senior officials to have died from the coronavirus so far , " Haniyeh said , Abu Ali reported . <p> Sheikholeslam was mostly recently the advisor to the Iran 's Foreign Affair 's Minister Mohammad Zarif , served as Iran 's deputy foreign minister during the establishment of Hezbollah in Lebanon in 1980 , according to Radio Farda . He held the position for 16 years , the longest held position by any high ranking Iranian official . <p> " Israel should leave the Middle East , " he was quoted with saying on Islamic Republic 's Ofogh ( Horizon ) TV in the summer of 2018 , as he elaborated on the number of missiles ready to launch towards Israel from Gaza , Syria , and Lebanon <p> The number of deaths from the coronavirus have reached 237 on Monday , as Iran 's Health Ministry reports 70 more deaths over the weekend , and a total of 7,161 infections cases . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@84351646 <h> Coronavirus trumps Trump peace plan at EU foreign policy meeting <h> The EU initially reacted to the Trump plan right after its release in January , calling for a two-state solution based on past UN resolutions . <p> European Union flags fly outside the European Commission headquarters in Brussels <p> ( photo credit : YVES HERMAN/REUTERS ) <p> The EU 's planned denunciation of settlement annexation and US President Donald Trump 's peace plan was taken off of Monday 's agenda in light of more pressing concerns regarding the coronavirus pandemic . <p> The Middle East peace process was a planned item for Monday 's meeting of the EU Foreign Affairs Council , a forum of all member states ' foreign ministers , but the discussion has been postponed indefinitely due to the current health crisis . <p> Several ministers asked at last month 's meeting in Brussels that the Trump plan be discussed and that the council produce written conclusions . <p> " We had an exchange of views about the Middle East peace process , " Josep Borrell , high representative of the EU for foreign affairs , said at the end of the February meeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political process that is acceptable to both parties and how best to defend internationally agreed parameters of equal rights and international law . " <p> The Trump plan allows for a Palestinian state on 70% of the West Bank and Gaza , as well as land Israel would swap , while Israel would apply its sovereignty the other 30% of the West Bank , including all settlements and the Jordan Valley . <p> The EU initially reacted to the Trump plan right after its release in January , calling for a two-state solution based on past UN resolutions . <p> Borrell at the time threatened that any Israeli moves toward settlement annexation " would not go unchallenged . " <p> The EU foreign policy chief clarified that his statement " was a warning saying we can not accept an annexation that from our understanding " defies international law . <p> The EU is sensitive to the issue of annexation beyond Israel , due to the message applying Israeli law in the West Bank could send to Russia , which annexed Crimea , or Turkey , which occupies Northern Cyprus . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ annexation of Crimea . <p> Hungary led the opposition to a draft of an EU statement opposing the Trump plan last month , blocking its release . Several countries expressed misgivings about the language used that could antagonize the US or be viewed as threatening Israel . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@84439543 <h> COGAT coordinates restoration of CT machine in Gaza <h> The hospital provides medical treatment for dozens of patients daily . <p> Medical equipment that will be used to repair the defective CT machine in the European Gaza Hospital <p> ( photo credit : COGAT SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <p> The Defense Ministry coordinated the transfer of medical equipment donated by the World Health Organization that will be used to repair the defective CT machine at the European Gaza Hospital . <p> The Coordinator of Government Activities in the Territories ' ( COGAT ) Coordination and Liaison Administration ( CLA ) oversaw the transfer . <p> The hospital provides medical treatment for dozens of patients daily . <p> " The Coordination and Liaison Administration for the Gaza Strip is working around the clock in cooperation with international organizations in an effort to assist the Gazan health system provide optimal support in various areas for Gaza residents , " said the Head of CLA Gaza , Colonel Iyad Sarhan . " This type of coordination is but part of the extensive action taking place under the leadership of CLA officers , soldiers , and other employees . " <p> Sarhan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the coronavirus in Gaza . " CLA Gaza will continue to extend a hand to the international organizations operating in the Gaza Strip because only together will we succeed in our joint mission -- stopping the spread of the epidemic , " said Sarhan . <p> The United Nations expressed fears on Monday that the Gaza Strip 's health system would not be able to handle the large number of cases if the coronavirus outbreak spreads . There are only 60 ventilators in the Gaza Strip for all medical emergencies among the population of 2 million . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@84441737 <h> 600 IDF soldiers to join efforts in enforcing coronavirus guidelines <h> The soldiers will accompany Israel police officers and have a special tag . The commanders will also carry weapons . <p> By JERUSALEM POST STAFF <p> MARCH 31 , 2020 01:36 <p> IDF Hiram ( 769 Brigade ) base <p> ( photo credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <p> The military spokesperson announced that starting Monday 600 IDF soldiers and commanders will help Israel police enforce the government coronavirus guidelines . The soldiers and commanders participating in the enforcement will be drawn from combat training bases . <p> In preparation for enforcing the Health Ministry 's guidelines , IDF soldiers underwent special training for the mission in civilian populated areas . The soldiers will accompany police officers and have special tags , while their commanders will also carry weapons . <p> The commander of the Golani Brigade 's training , one of the combat units taking part in the enforcement , told his soldiers that " we trained you to fight against enemies in Lebanon , Syria , Judea , and Samaria and Gaza . This time you are fighting a slightly different enemy- the coronavirus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most Professional way , it 's our duty . " <p> Earlier on Monday , the IDF announced that the August draft cycle of several combat support units will be postponed due to the continued spread of the coronavirus in Israel . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
