<h> Editorial : A mix of hope and fear <p> Despite its inherent fragility , the Israel-Hamas truce is a welcome development that raises hopes of eventually ending a devastating war that has inflicted miseries on millions of people . The three-phase ceasefire agreement , reached after months of hard negotiations , represents the first major respite for the besieged people of Gaza . It is in Israel 's best interests -- as well as that of other major actors in the region and beyond -- to ensure that it is the first step to a more lasting peace . It requires sincerity , foresight and an accommodative approach from both sides to make the deal work . The current round of conflict , following Hamas 's deadly incursion into Israel on October 7 , 2023 , and the subsequent retaliatory offensive by Tel Aviv , has left over 46,000 people dead and threatens to engulf much of West Asia . Under the first of the agreement , Hamas has agreed to release 33 Israeli hostages while Israel will release Palestinian prisoners . The second phase of the truce deal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ withdrawal of all Israeli troops from Gaza . Finally , in the third phase , the hope is that the reconstruction of Gaza will begin under the aegis of UN agencies , Egypt and Qatar . Gaza is in the grip of an unimaginably complex humanitarian crisis . The massive displacement has left over 90% of the population -- nearly 2.3 million people -- homeless . Entire neighbourhoods lie in ruins , and the lack of basic necessities has pushed residents to the brink of famine . The truce , brokered by the United States , Egypt and Qatar , serves as a balm to the wounds of war . <p> A crucial component of the ceasefire includes a surge in humanitarian aid to Gaza . This would enable displaced Palestinians to return to their homes and help rebuild critical infrastructure . Yet , the long-term success of this agreement hinges on both sides ' willingness to engage in meaningful negotiations . The fragile nature of previous ceasefire truces -- such as the one in November 2023 that lasted only a week -- underscores the difficulty of achieving lasting peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military capabilities and Israel 's objective to dismantle Hamas ' governing structures . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , grappling with domestic political fractures , faces immense pressure to deliver a durable solution . Simultaneously , Hamas must balance internal consolidation with an external show of strength , risking its grip on Gaza if the ceasefire falters . Before the Hamas strike in 2023 , there were significant improvements in ties between Israel and moderate Arab states , including the Abraham Accords with Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates ( UAE ) . Reviving the Accords in letter and spirit will require an accommodation of Palestinian aspirations , which is only possible if all sides act in good faith . For Donald Trump , who is already claiming the ceasefire as the first success of his presidency , the inconvenient reality is that he is now shackled with responsibility for the deal 's fate .
