<p> Raila needs support either by consensus or at least a two-thirds majority vote by the AU member states represented by their heads . <h> Why Raila will not win AUC chairmanship , Mukhisa Kituyi <p> Assessing the race , Kituyi observed that the Francophone bloc would create a bulwark against the Kenyan candidate 's bid . <p> He said the Djibouti candidate , Mahamoud Ali Youssouf , will capitalise on the French-speaking and Islamic countries to get the seat . <p> Kituyi further observed that Raila 's continent-wide overtures are deficient in strategy and thus would not deliver him the win in the vote scheduled for February 2025 . <p> There are other external factors that the Kenyan candidate 's campaign secretariat has not explored , thus the loophole for the loss . <p> " I do n't know if it is campaigning that gets you that seat . There are certain things that are strategically very important in consideration . The Israeli-Gaza genocide is one of them . I have worked at the highest level in international diplomacy ; I have sat in fora where major elective and appointment decisions are made . One thing I know for sure is that Francophone Africa will always vote as a bloc on any issues concerning Africa , " he said . <p> According to Kituyi , a one-time presidential hopeful , the French-speaking and Islamic countries will always marshal support amongst themselves for the benefit of one of their natives . <p> In this case , it is commonplace that the foregoing bloc(s) could choose to support the bid of Djibouti 's long-serving Foreign Affairs minister , Mahmoud , Raila 's main challenger . <p> " You have two candidates for a position to represent Africa , if one is from Francophone and the other is not , the Francophone candidate starts with 29 votes . If you have Djibouti and Kenyan candidates , the Djibouti one starts with 29 votes , then add those from Islamic countries , and SADC issues a statement that its countries are supporting Djibouti , where are you going to start campaigning for Raila ? " Kituyi posed . <p> The former UNCTAD secretary general seemed to share in the thoughts of diplomacy analyst Ahmed Hashi , who previously highlighted the significance of regional self-segregation within the continent based on the colonial masters ' demarcations and interests .
