<p> The Standard Group Plc is a multi-media organization with investments in media platforms spanning newspaper print operations , television , radio broadcasting , digital and online services . The Standard Group is recognized as a leading multi-media house in Kenya with a key influence in matters of national and international interest . <h> DIGGER CLASSIFIED <h> Syria after Assad : Should we celebrate or worry ? <h> JavaScript is disabled ! <p> Please enable JavaScript to read this content . <p> Syrian residents in Turkey cheer as they celebrate the end of the Baath rule in Syria after rebel fighters took control of Damascus overnight , at the Fatih Mosque , in Istanbul , on December 8 , 2024 . AFP <p> The long reign by father and son in Syria , spanning 50 years , came to an end as fast it began . It ended in disgrace , the son going into exile and father 's grave desecrated . <p> The Assads have led Syria since 1971 . Hafez al Assad handing over to his son , Bashar al-Assad , in 2000 . <p> Power is intoxicating and strange . Why would a family sacrifice so many lives to stay in power , with millions ending up as refugees ? Remember the Syrian civil war in 2011 , the deaths and refugees . <p> UNHCR puts the number of Syrian refugees at 14 million in a population of 23 million . Syrian network for human rights puts deaths from civil war since 2011 at over 230,000 . <p> Watching the behaviour of political leaders who stay in power for too long -- from Mobutu in Congo to Assads in Syria , or Duvaliers in Haiti and many others countries -- I marvel at the similarity between political power and witchcraft . Both are hard to explain , both bring tragedies and sorrow . <p> Why do such leaders cling to power when the masses do not want them ? Why does power become so intoxicating that we even want to pass it to the next generation , to remain in the family ? Why does political power at times supersede human lives ? Why is power often associated with human suffering , yet it 's supposed to alleviate it ? <p> What can one do in power that ca n't be done when out of power , including pursuing your own interests or just resting ? Is leading millions not taxing enough ? Note how political leaders ' hair greys fast while in office . You wonder why political leaders ( and some corporate leaders too ) want to prolong their stay in office when our own lifespans are limited . <p> The problem seems to start with cross-pollinating political power with quasi-religious ceremonies , which eventually makes one feel invincible . Think of campaigns , voting , swearing and related ceremonies . They add to the mystic of power and its intoxication . <p> If the process of getting power was simplified , maybe it could become less intoxicating and less risky to society . In UK , from where we picked lots of our political ceremonies , the king or queen is the head of the Anglican Church . Watch the inauguration of Donald Trump next month . <p> Extremist leaders <p> The Greeks invented democracy to ensure rulers get the consent of the ruled . With a term limit , voters can kick out non-performers . Sadly , some leaders ignore that or rig the polls . Such leaders become extremists , often using repression to remain in power . Psychology seems to suggest they are usually powerless , lacking confidence and maturity , and they compensate for that by going to extremes including killing opponents . <p> Back to the Assad family . Now they are out of power and secure in Moscow , Russia . My observation is that the longer leaders stay in power the more chaos they leave behind . <p> Look at Haiti after Duvalier family left . That is why Kenyan policemen are there . Libya after Gaddafi , Zimbabwe after Mugabe , Iraq after Saddam Hussein , Yugoslavia after Broz Tito . We can make the list longer . <p> That is why we should worry over Syria without Assads . Will the country slide into chaos like the list we have shared ? <p> The problem with leaders who overstay in power is that they seal all political safety valves , leaving citizens with pent-up anger and grudges . When citizens get that opportunity , usually after the end of a regime , they have a lot to sort , often violently . <p> The Assad family , like others before , left the country to enjoy their lives elsewhere . The rest of the citizens can sort themselves out . The destinations are usually countries that have vested interests in the countries they leave behind . Russia has geopolitical interests in Syria with a naval and air force base . <p> One wishes leaders are like Jesus or shepherds , never forsaking their flocks . They should be like ship captains , the last to leave a sinking ship . <p> What next for Syria ? <p> It 's an open question why Syrian allies such as Iran , Russia and Hezbollah did not help Assad as they did in 2011 . Were they distracted by war in Lebanon , Gaza and Ukraine ? Did the wars in Lebanon and Gaza have such geopolitical significance ? <p> Trouble in Syria has already started with Israel settling grudges before the new leaders settle in . They have occupied part of Golan Heights and destroyed military assets , not to fall to the wrong hands . They seem to believe an elephant does not die with its tusks . <p> Which other countries will follow suit -- Turkiye , Russia , Iran or USA ? They all have strategic interest in Syria . Will the fall of Assad have more geopolitical repercussions ? Will the fall stem the rising Russian influence particularly in the Sahel ? <p> The new Syrian leaders belong to the former rebel group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , led by Abu Mohammed al-Jolani . HTS has to compete with other groups that fought against Assad . Each group has its sponsors , which raises the stakes further . Will they come together as partners or fight each other ? <p> Will the current leader get intoxicated with power and behave like the leaders they have replaced ? Will the Alawite-Sunni differences be amplified or muted ? <p> It 's too early to predict . But one wishes all the rival groups can sit and share power . Syria is for all Syrians and 50 years plus of Assad rule were bad enough . <p> Let reason return to this beautiful land , and children grow into adults and to their potential , more so as Christmas approaches . Remember Damascus in the Bible ? This should be Syria 's Damascus moment -- after all Damascus is Syria 's capital .
