<p> The war in the Palestinian territories is having a catastrophic impact on the local economy , the World Bank said Monday , noting that all sectors have been badly affected by Israel 's attacks . <p> Economic output in the Gaza Strip plummeted by 86 percent in the first half of this year , and by 23 percent in the West Bank , according to recent Bank data , leaving the Palestinian economy on track to contract by 26 percent in inflation-adjusted terms this year . <p> " The ongoing conflict in the Middle East continues to have a catastrophic impact on the Palestinian economy , pushing the territories into a crisis of unprecedented magnitude , " the bank said in a statement . <p> " The continuation of the hostilities has led to a sharp reduction in economic output and a collapse of basic services in both the West Bank and Gaza , amid skyrocketing poverty across the territories , " it added . <p> The war in Gaza was sparked by Hamas 's October 7 , 2023 attack on Israel that resulted in the deaths of 1,208 people , mostly civilians , according to an AFP tally of Israeli official figures . <p> Since then , Israel 's retaliatory offensive has killed at least 44,976 people in Gaza , a majority of them civilians , according to figures from the Hamas-run territory 's health ministry that the United Nations considers reliable . <p> Violence has also spread to the occupied West Bank , where much of the growth in the Palestinian economy took place before the war began . <p> Inflation in Gaza rose 300 percent in the 12 months to October , with food prices surging by 440 percent , and energy prices by more than 200 percent due to major supply disruptions and the difficulty of getting food aid to people in need , the Bank said . <p> As a result , 91 percent of Gaza 's population " is on the brink of acute food insecurity , " the Bank said , citing a recent report , adding that 875,000 people faced " emergency levels of food insecurity , " while 345,000 were at " catastrophic " levels . <p> More broadly , all the basic structures of Gazan society have been destroyed : communications networks have been almost entirely destroyed , despite the efforts of local operators to maintain connectivity .
