<p> From Damascus to Gaza : The fractured and volatile Muslim worldPosted on December 23rd , 2024 <h> Ayesha Naseem Mirza , UK <p> Islam is embarking on a critical era , and Muslims must remain vigilant and open their eyes to the looming threats . At the very least , we must unite to ensure that the legacy of Prophet Muhammadsa remains untarnished , come what may . " ( The Unity of Muslims , p. 44 ) <p> These were the words of the Khalifa that were written and published several decades ago but their truth and their significance is so relevant and timely that one is left to wonder whether anything really changed or was any heed given by Muslims and the Islamic world since . <p> If we glance at the Muslim world today , the answer is , certainly not . <p> Most Muslim countries are deeply mired in conflict , division , and unrest . The Middle East , in particular , remains an extremely volatile region . As I write this , any hope for peace feels like a distant dream -- something far out of reach for its struggling nations . This time , though not for the first time , the focus is on Syria . <p> If anyone were to predict that the launch of an offensive by the Syrian Rebels against the Assad regime on 27 November 2024 would result in the fall of Bashar al-Assad 's regime and the change of power in the heart of Damascus in the matter of just ten days , it was almost laughable and absurd . However , as is the case with the Middle East and its unpredictable geopolitics , today Syria has seen an unprecedented transition of power with regime change . <p> The rebels led by Islamist alliance Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , alongside its umbrella group of Turkish-backed Syrian militias called the Syrian National Army , initiated this offensive by capturing Aleppo , Syria 's largest city . They swept across Syria taking over other cities and towns and eventually claiming Damascus . As for President Bashar al-Assad , the Russian Foreign Ministry confirmed , in the first official confirmation , that he had stepped down " and left Syria " . <p> This is a huge turning point . <h> The rise and fall of Bashar al-Assad <p> Bashar al-Assad came to power in 2000 after the death of his father Hafez al-Assad , who ruled the country for 29 years . Assad inherited a strictly controlled and repressive political structure , where opposition was not tolerated . In the initial years of his rule , he promised open media access to Syria , a progressive economic approach and appeared to pursue a path of politics that differed significantly from his father 's style of rule -- it was short-lived , however . Assad 's legacy is that he will be remembered as the man who violently repressed peaceful protests against his regime in 2011 , triggering a civil war . The brutal civil war resulted in the displacement of fourteen million people , six million of which became refugees -- a catastrophe that is considered the world 's largest refugee crisis , according to the UN . ( From eye doctor to dictator -- the rise and fall of Assad 's presidency " , Sky News , 8 December 2024 , www.skynews.com ) <p> In the previous rebellion against his regime , he managed to survive with the help of Russia and Iran . Russia used its air power while Iran sent military advisors to Syria and Hezbollah , the militia it supports in neighbouring Lebanon , deployed its well-trained fighters . This did not happen this time . Assad 's allies were preoccupied with their own affairs and in the last few days , essentially abandoned him . Due to the lack of help from Russia , Iran and Hezbollah , his troops were generally unable to stop the rebels led by the militant group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) . ( End of Assad rule will reshape region 's balance of power " , BBC News , 8 December 2024 , www.bbc.co.uk ) <h> Who are the rebels in Syria ? <p> Syrian rebel militant group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) led by Abu Mohammed al-Jawlani has come forward as the figurehead of the new governmental rule in post-Assad Syria . Al-Jawlani 's HTS was set up under a different name , Jabhat al-Nusra , in 2011 . It was named and set up in direct affiliation to al-Qaeda . The leader of the self-styled Islamic State ( IS ) group , Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi , was also involved in the formation of Jabhat al-Nusra . This rebel movement was regarded as one of the most effective and deadly of the groups ranged against President Assad . <p> Although proscribed by the UN , the US , Turkey and other countries as a terrorist group , al-Jawlani publicly broke ranks with al-Qaeda and dissolved Jabhat al-Nusra to set up a new organisation with the name of Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) . Despite al-Jawlani 's campaign and claim over his organisation to be dissociated ideologically from al-Qaeda , doubts remain over whether HTS has completely renounced its links and how safe would the minorities in Syria be should there be more repression . <p> Analysts and writers agree that HTS ' sudden and destructive advance on Aleppo and Hama played a decisive role in the swift collapse of Assad 's regime . However , many also highlight that other rebel groups contributed significantly to the momentum , as various factions from across Syria appeared to unite and advance together . <p> Among these groups are rebel factions that operated under the banner of the Free Syrian Army from southern towns and cities that had been inactive for years . To the east of Syria were the Kurdish-led forces who have benefited from the collapse of the Syrian army to take full control of the main city , Deir El-Zour . <p> In the huge Syrian desert , the remaining traces of the so-called Islamic State can also take advantage of the situation . Further in the north of Syria , along the Turkish border , the Syrian National Army -- backed by Ankara -- may also prove to be a significant player in what happens next . ( Sebastian Usher , Who are the Syrian Rebels in Syria " , BBC News , 30 November 2024 , www.bbc.co.uk ) <h> What happens next ? <p> During this rebel offensive in the past weeks , hundreds of prisoners have been released prompting celebration and joy among the Syrian people . But even if united by the desire for change against Assad 's regime , Syria , as a whole , is an extremely divided nation . With different rebel factions that often work as rivals and often as allies , and with foreign powers picking sides according to their interests and alliances means that much remains uncertain and undecided for Syria . <p> Again , HTS and its previous affiliation with al-Qaeda also means that there are concerns regarding the kind of rule Syria would now face and whether other minorities would get their due rights under the new leadership of al-Jawlani . <p> With the ceasefire between Lebanon 's Hezbollah and Israel already crippling , and with the continuing of brutal Israeli aggression in Gaza , Syria is another key front in the conflict . <p> Just hours after the collapse of Damascus to the rebels , Israel seized " territory in Syria-controlled areas of the Golan Heights , as its military warned Syrians living in five villages close to the Israeli-occupied portion of the strategic area to stay home " . <p> The Israeli Prime Minister , Benjamin Netanyahu ordered Israeli forces to seize the buffer zone in the Golan Heights established by a 1974 ceasefire agreement with Syria . Netanyahu said that the ceasefire agreement was no longer in function as the Syrian soldiers had left their positions , requiring the Israeli takeover . Israel captured a portion of the Golan Heights in the 1967 war and annexed it . The international community , except for the United States , views it as illegally occupied Syrian territory . <p> Moreover , the Israeli Air Force bombed weapons depots in Southern Syria and Damascus to prevent opposition groups from seizing them . They attacked ammunition depots in southern Syria and in the Damascus airport area . As seen in the past year and beyond , Israel was allowed to intervene and extend its aggression now to the borders of Syria , without any repercussions or consequences from Western leaders . <p> The unprecedented impunity continues to destabilise the region and the wider world . <h> The disunited Muslim world <p> When Israel launched its catastrophic and bloody aggression against Gaza , the lack of Muslim unity was glaring . Not once did all Muslim states unanimously and categorically condemn the attack . Instead , there were scattered voices , isolated statements , and fragmented conferences , but no collective display of solidarity . <p> On the front lines of resistance , it was Lebanon 's Hezbollah , Gaza 's Hamas , and Yemen 's Houthis -- supported militarily and economically by Iran -- that attempted to confront Israeli aggression . These resistance groups targeted military facilities and assets to undermine Israel 's military power in their struggle to end the war . However , no decisive victory was achieved . Backed by the US and its allies , Israel successfully disrupted the leadership structures of Hamas and Hezbollah through targeted assassinations of key figures , including Ismail Haniyeh , Yahya Sinwar , and Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah . <p> Now , as the war turns to Syria once again , not only are the wealthier Muslim nations silent bystanders , some of them , like Turkey , are backing militant forces to cause further division and discord inside Syria . <h> The Unity of Muslims -- An address of Hazrat Khalifatul Masih IIra <p> In 1952 , Hazrat Mirza Bashir-ud-Din Mahmud Ahmad , Khalifatul Masih IIra delivered an address on the subject of the unity of Muslims . In his address , Hazrat Khalifatul Masih IIra stated : <p> When a sovereign and powerful country comes under attack , its people have confidence and faith in their ability to mount a solid and resolute response to the attacker ; they possess both material and moral strength to not only repel the enemy from their borders but also penetrate their territory and strike back with equal force . But as evident , no Islamic country at this time can defend itself without foreign assistance , much less retaliate in enemy lands . Every Muslim state is forced to seek help from America , Great Britain , or some other European power . " ( The Unity of Muslims English , p. 3 ) <p> Hazrat Khalifatul Masih IIra further said : <p> In this age , world powers include Russia , America , and the United Kingdom , with France , Italy , and Germany following close behind . Among new countries , Australia and Canada are also rising in power . Even Japan is emerging as a significant player . The question is whether any Muslim state or alliance can compete with these world powers in wealth , military strength , trade , and commerce . Can any Islamic country claim to have a comparable number of tanks , bombs , war supplies , production facilities , and businesses as these nations ? " ( Ibid , pp. 4-5 ) <p> Although the address is from the post-World War II era , much of the subject and the insights are still as relevant as back then . Even though some powerful Muslim nations have now established military and weapons for its defence , they are still largely dependent and also reliant on the West for aid and concessions . <p> Regarding the meaning of the Arabic term , ittihad , Hazrat Khalifatul Masih IIra explained that the word derived from wahdat " which means to adopt solidarity . It implies that various entities have decided to merge into a whole , losing their individuality . A salient feature of Arabic is that the entire philosophy behind a concept is encapsulated in one word . As a cognate in Urdu , ittihad has lost its meaning . When uttered in Arabic , a listener who knows its context instantly perceives the speaker 's position : Muslims are divided into various independent sects , but with planning and resolve , they can rally for particular objectives . Therefore , a call for unity among Muslims means that the Islamic world will adopt coherence and harmony despite its divides that stretch across nations and individuals . " ( Ibid , p. 5 ) <p> Providing two main principles that could help establish Muslim unity , Hazrat Khalifatul Masih IIra stated : <p> Thus , the first principle for establishing Muslim unity is acknowledging our differences . An individual who aims to eliminate these differences to foster unity is unlikely to succeed . Only those who can look past secondary differences can prevail . " ( Ibid , p. 36 ) <p> The second principle of unity entails prioritising major concerns over minor ones . If unity can not be attained in every aspect , focus on significant matters and overlook trivial issues . " ( Ibid , p. 41 ) <p> Urging the Muslim nations to adhere to the invaluable pursuit of unity , Hazrat Musleh-e-Maudra emphasised : <p> Currently , Pakistan , Lebanon , Iraq , Jordan , Syria , Egypt , Libya , Iran , Afghanistan , Indonesia , and Saudi Arabia are eleven independent Muslim countries , each with their own mutual differences . If these states are interested in unifying , it is incumbent upon them to consider common points around which to unite , whilst overlooking their differences . If such a point is found , they should ally and work to achieve its aims . For instance , they can collaborate on the goal of not permitting any Muslim country to remain subjugated . Rather than waiting for their internal disputes to be resolved , they should join forces in preventing any Islamic land from being enslaved and make concerted efforts for its liberation . Just as Prophet Muhammadsa invited Jews and Christians to unite based on a shared belief in Tauheed , all Muslims ought to unify in liberating enslaved subjects , with differences being resolved later . " ( Ibid , p. 42 ) <p> He continues : <p> I have observed that Muslims focus entirely on their differences and disregard what binds them . Every sect declares the others it disagrees with as wajib-ul-qatal punishable by death , even though it contradicts the practice of the Holy Prophetsa . Are they greater believers than Prophet Muhammadsa who invited the Jews and the Christians to stand in solidarity with Muslims on the shared belief in the Unity of God ? Yet , the believers fail to extend the same invitation to their fellow adherents ... refuse to move an inch without carving out each other 's flesh . The same call for solidarity will unite the world of Islam . If Muslim countries wish to achieve unity , they must rally around the principle of joining forces , regardless of their contentious issues , and stand together to fight the enemy . Let us agree that , despite our mutual differences , we will not engage in conflict with each other . " ( Ibid , p. 43 ) <h> Hakam and Adl : The one to unify the Ummah <p> Given how volatile the state of the region and the wider world is , just recognising the significance of Muslim unity is one of the many paths that must be pursued immediately . <p> Unity that is free from all vested interests of individual nations and one that acknowledges the necessity of dialogue for the sake of peace and stability and unity that overlooks the differences that sets us apart . <p> The Ahmadiyya Muslim Community was established for this purpose as well . Hazrat Mirza Masroor Ahmad , Khalifatul Masih Vaa delivered a Friday Sermon on the subject of the Hakam and Adl and explained : <p> The Ahmadiyya Jamaat has not been established on the basis of differences that exist between various sects and groups , or owing to their differences of opinion , or their difference in their interpretations and commentaries . Rather , this Community has been established in the latter days by the true servant of the Holy Prophetsa , in accordance with the prophecy made by the Holy Prophetsa and the promise of Allah the Almighty . Having pledged allegiance to the Promised Messiahas , it is this Community which will bring an end to the disputes between the Shias and Sunnis or between any other group or sect for that matter ; and thus , enable them to become united under one Ummah . We are to establish a single Ummah by informing Muslims of the true teachings of Islam . The Promised Messiahas was commissioned for this purpose and established this Community in accordance with the commandment of Allah the Almighty . In order to fulfil this task , Allah the Almighty revealed to the Promised Messiahas that he should , ' gather together all Muslims who are on the earth upon one religion ' . " ( Hakam and Adl : The One to Unify the Ummah , pp. 2-3 ) <h> Conclusion <p> Essentially , the global political theatre , where Syria 's fate is being discussed , is already in shambles itself . A lot will be suggested and proposed ( and imposed ) . The Muslim World -- although more of a clich ? now -- might also want to consider backing Syria . What Muslim leaders might think is again expected to be under the heavy influence of the Western political agendas . Will unity be on the cards of the Muslim world ? Is such a concept still achievable ? If so , how is it to come about ? <h> Leave a Reply <p> Disclaimer : The comments contained within this website are personal reflection only and do not necessarily reflect the views of the LankaWeb . LankaWeb.com offers the contents of this website without charge , but does not necessarily endorse the views and opinions expressed within . Neither the LankaWeb nor the individual authors of any material on this Web site accept responsibility for any loss or damage , however caused ( including through negligence ) , which you may directly or indirectly suffer arising out of your use of or reliance on information contained on or accessed through this Web site . All views and opinions presented in this article are solely those of the surfer and do not necessarily represent those of LankaWeb.com . <p> This entry was posted on Monday , December 23rd , 2024 . You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 feed . You can skip to the end and leave a response .
