<h> By Nalliah Thayabharan <p> The Balkans are steeped in history and very much in the middle of today 's geopolitical great game and are aware of the destabilizing Balkan wars of the late 20th century , and are surely aware of the spark that started World War I , when Archduke Franz Ferdinand was assassinated in Sarajevo , Serbia , leading the great powers to start World War I. The bombing of Serbian forces by NATO in the 1990s is still fresh in the memory of most of the Balkans and Russians . <p> Today , the most obvious and underreported influence in the Western Balkans is Turkey , where President Recep Tayyip Erdogan is promoting a greater role for Islam socially and politically in Albania , Kosovo , Macedonia and Bosnia . Today it is hard to miss the veils worn on the streets and the new mosques being built in Albania , Kosovo , Macedonia and Bosnia . <p> Serbia is one of Russia 's main supporters in Europe . Hungarian-born American George Soros ( born Gy ? rgy Schwartz ; August 12 , 1930 ) wants Serbia to change the course of their policies supporting Russia . Soros has decided to remove all obstacles and overthrow the current government of Serbia and in this way bring to power new political forces that are anti-Russian . Soros financed all the revolutions in South-Eastern Europe and directly financed the independence of Kosovo and was active with his foundations during the wars in the Balkans . This work , which got his branch in Belarus , was expelled in 1997 . Soros ' definition of democracy means people electing only candidates of whom he approves . <p> George Soros played a key role in the dramatic overthrow last year of President Slobodan Milosevic . His Soros Foundations Network helped finance several groups , including the student organization Otpor , which spearheaded resistance to the patriotic Yugoslav leader Slobodan Milosevic . Soros ' branch in Belgrade , the Yugoslav and Serbian capital , was among the earliest backers of Otpor , which grew under young and decentralized leadership to strengthen the fractured opposition to Milosevic . The vast majority of groups funded by Soros are not nearly as powerful as Otpor , nor do they play for such huge stakes . <p> Soros has given particular focus in creating political unrest to Eastern European countries , including his native Hungary and is long accused by Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Mih ? ly Orb ? n of meddling in Hungary 's affairs . The U.S. State Department often teamed up with Soros to promote democracy " in Eastern European countries.This often consisted of targeting nationalist governments by infusing socially liberal propaganda through NGOs and Western-sponsored media -- often going so far as to influence those countries ' elections . <p> Soros has no chance of winning a popularity contest among the Eastern Europeans . Sorism exploits the disdain for the billionaire . Politicians criticizing Soros ' influence were portrayed as senseless conspiracy theorists who imagine that rich overlords rule the world . The minute you do so , you 're immediately labeled some sort of conspiracy theorist . <p> From time to time , Soros is the subject of Romanian and Serbian politics . Soros sees Romania and Serbia as his own business where he can pursue his business interests . This man , who has been creating various organizations in Romania and Serbia since the 90s has only financed the worst ; the missions he funded never benefited Romania and Serbia . <p> George Soros was once best known as the speculator who broke the Bank of England " by reputedly making $1 billion in a single week in September 1992 betting against the British pound . In the mid-1990s , in addition to the tax and currency violations that drove the George Soros network out of Belarus , branches in Yugoslavia , Albania , Kyrgyzstan and Croatia , were accused of shielding spies and breaking currency laws . <p> George Soros is behind the migration crisis in Europe and the European Union is governed by unelected officials , and represents the interests of multinational companies . <p> George Soros with one of the major generators of what is called open society which means in many countries creating revolutions and making huge impact on the society especially in Eastern Europe who was encouraging refugees to come to Europe . <p> The goal of George Soros organizations and foreign mercenaries is anti-Russian and anti-Orthodox action and promotion of LGBT propaganda . They want to intensify the march of the political-globalist West towards the East , and direct their forces to where the front is most relevant and where it is expected to intensify . Soros ' mercenaries are destroying the Serbian Orthodox tradition and promoting Western values in the Serbian public space . <p> In the last 35 years , since the collapse of the Soviet Union , there has been a massive lack of democracy in the Western world . When the Soviet Union existed all the democracies around Western world were obliged to confirm in their Parliament 's that there is a democracy and they are not just conveying what the people from the shadow or today what is called the corporate world is telling to the politicians what to do . <p> Western democracies are not any more real democracies , they are much more corporative driven politically correct societies . <p> The Power centers in the Western countries have been sabotaging Serbia for a long time because the West does not want a strong Serbia strengthening its economy , protecting and defending its territory . The Power centers in the Western countries want Serbia on its knees , weak and obedient , Serbia which delivers on their requests and ultimatums . <p> Foreign intelligence agencies had developed a plan aimed at the collapse of Serbia , politically and economically and looking for young Serbians who would do things like organizing protests on their behalf . Western megaphones received millions , and the media and the NGOs have been denunciating Serbia for money received from Western governments , embassies , organizations backed by Rothschild , Rockefeller , Soros , European Commission and various funds for the development of democracy . <p> The Serbian politician and diplomat Vladimir Krsljaninhas been one of the most prominent advocates of close cooperation between Serbia and Russia for decades . He was a high-ranking official in the Serbian Socialist Party of Slobodan Milosevic . Today opposition parties in Serbia are attempting to exploit the tragedies for the promotion of their own interests . <p> West is acting in Ukraine as it did in Kosovo . The Western NATO masters are on the offensive and are ordering Serbia to go down on its knees and capitulate . German politicians were talking about a glorious EU future while dismembering the Serbian state . <p> The New World -- Serbia , Russia , and China -- the future has begun . <p> Most years Bethlehem basks in the central place it holds in the Christian story of Jesus ' life , born there in a stable because there was no room for his parents at the inn , and placed in an animal 's manger , the humblest of all possible beds . The normally bustling biblical birthplace of Jesus " Bethlehem " now looks like a ghost town . With Israel 's war in Gaza having killed more than 43,000 people , the mostly Palestinian population of Bethlehem in the Occupied West Bank are in mourning too . <p> As Bethlehem prepares to mark its second Christmas under the shadow of the war in Gaza , for the second straight year , Bethlehem 's Christmas celebrations will be somber and muted , in deference to ongoing war in Gaza . Israel 's war in Gaza has been raging for nearly 15 months , and there still is no end in sight . <p> Like Christ , Russia is conducting a war to save the world and the only two possibilities are Russia 's victory or the annihilation of humanity . <p> Very Very Merry Christmas ! ! ! <h> Leave a Reply <p> Disclaimer : The comments contained within this website are personal reflection only and do not necessarily reflect the views of the LankaWeb . LankaWeb.com offers the contents of this website without charge , but does not necessarily endorse the views and opinions expressed within . Neither the LankaWeb nor the individual authors of any material on this Web site accept responsibility for any loss or damage , however caused ( including through negligence ) , which you may directly or indirectly suffer arising out of your use of or reliance on information contained on or accessed through this Web site . All views and opinions presented in this article are solely those of the surfer and do not necessarily represent those of LankaWeb.com . <p> This entry was posted on Tuesday , December 24th , 2024 . You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 feed . You can skip to the end and leave a response .
