<p> The Standard Group Plc is a multi-media organization with investments in media platforms spanning newspaper print operations , television , radio broadcasting , digital and online services . The Standard Group is recognized as a leading multi-media house in Kenya with a key influence in matters of national and international interest . <h> DIGGER CLASSIFIED <h> My barbs and bouquets to those who made a difference in 2024 <h> Loading Article ... <p> For the best experience , please enable JavaScript in your browser settings . <p> Kamotho Waiganjo is an advocate of the High Court of Kenya . <p> It is that time of the year when this column appreciates those that made a difference for Kenya and throw some barbs the direction of those who caused distress . Our first bouquet goes to the teaching profession , specifically lecturers in public universities . <p> I have recently gone back to school and have interacted intensely with this portion of a much-neglected profession . Firstly , the typical university lecturer belongs to the top percentile of our brightest and many have taken teaching as a service to country . <p> We ought to be celebrating and giving them incentives to enable them convert their intellect for the benefit of the country . Instead , we shoulder them with a punishing load of teaching , allocating them numerous barely related undergraduate classes , supervision of scores of Masters and PhD students and then pay them a pittance . To survive , they have to engage in moonlighting as part time consultants or in professional fields . <p> Theirs is a tough life . To the committed ones , because there is also a population of malingerers among them , a bouquet is well deserved . <p> The next bouquet goes to Generation Z , the youngsters who in June put their lives on the line to demand a fairer and more just country . Because this group comprised our children , our nephews and our nieces , we interacted closely with them and know just how passionately they felt and how well informed they were . <p> Predictably , their protests were infiltrated , and many were caught up in senseless violence , destruction and mayhem that defined later days of the protests . <p> These latter events must not detract from the passionate but tribeless , classless nature of the initial Gen Z protests and the way that generation utilised their smart phones , the internet and social media to innovatively advance their cause . Kenya owes this group a debt of gratitude . <p> We trust that the consciousness they unleashed will not go to waste but rekindle a new patriotism willing to pay a price for a fairer more just Kenya . The final group which gets a bouquet and a barb is our police officers . <p> While we love to hate our cops , the reality is these fellows interact with society at its worst and deal with situations we would not be caught near . They handle cases of extreme violence , grisly accidents , and irresponsible and rude drivers in the scorching heat or heavy rains . <p> Many do this with zest and good humour . Despite all their many other faults , these fellow Kenyans , who are paid minuscule wages and live in dingy police lines , deserve our respect . They hereby get a bouquet . <p> The first barb however also goes to police officers . These are the fellows who clobber women as they demonstrate against gender-based violence . Whatever IG Douglas Kanja says , these officials , in whatever formation they are operating , are responsible for the ongoing abductions and disappearances , otherwise they would have arrested the abductors or fake abductees , if such exist . <p> The second barb goes to Kenyan drivers . I am not talking about the " matatu madness " lot . My barb is reserved for the otherwise rational , sensible and cultured Kenyans who go nuts when on the road . They blatantly and predictably ignore basic traffic rules , desecrate basic courtesies and ultimately produce the snarl ups that we have seen on the Nairobi-Naivasha highway this holiday . <p> This selfish foolishness is part of the reason our leaders , many of whom have similar approaches to life , have contempt for us . My final barb is international since its infamy defines the globe in 2024 . It has to do with the ongoing carnage in Gaza . <p> While I accept that the terrorist events of October 6th demanded a strong response , the State of Israel is not a terrorist organisation . It must therefore operate within certain bounds especially in relation to civilians . The wanton deaths of thousands of Palestinian civilians can not be justified under any circumstances . <p> For those acts , Netanyahu and his ilk get a barb , however ineffective it may be . As the year comes to an end , I pray that the acts of those we have celebrated will give us the impetus to be better in 2025 , while avoiding the errors that the barb receivers made in 2024 . Merry Christmas and a blessed 2025.
