<p> Pain shudders through the arteries of global society . Day after day passes by as the genocide against the Palestinian people continues and the conflicts in the Great Lakes region of Africa and Sudan escalate . More and more people slip into absolute poverty as arms companies ' profits soar . These realities have hardened society , allowing people to bury their heads and ignore the horrors unfolding across the world . Ferocious disregard for the pain of others has become a way to protect oneself from the inflation of suffering . What can one do with the wretchedness that has come to define life across the planet ? What can I do ? What can you do ? <p> In 2015 , the Palestinian poet Dareen Tatour wrote Qawim ya sha'abi , qawimhum ( Resist , My People , Resist Them ) , for which she was arrested and imprisoned by the Israeli state . A poem that can send you to prison is a powerful poem . A state threatened by a poem is an immoral state . <p> Resist , my people , resist them.In Jerusalem , I dressed my wounds and breathed my sorrows to God.I carried the soul in my palmfor an Arab Palestine.I will not succumb to the ' peaceful solution ' , never lower my flagsuntil I evict them from my homelandand make them kneel for a time to come.Resist , my people , resist them.Resist the settler 's robberyand follow the caravan of martyrs.Shred the disgraceful constitutionthat has imposed relentless humiliationand stopped us from restoring our rights.They burned blameless children ; As for Hadeel , they sniped her in public , killed her in broad daylight.Resist , my people , resist them.Resist the colonialist 's onslaught.Pay no mind to his agents among uswho shackle us with illusions of peace.Do not fear the Merkava Israeli army tanks ; the truth in your heart is stronger , as long as you resist in a landthat has lived through raids and victory.Ali called from his grave:resist , my rebellious people , write me as prose on the agarwood , for you have become the answer to my remains.Resist , my people , resist them.Resist , my people , resist them . <p> ' Hadeel ' in the poem refers to Hadeel al-Hashlamoun ( age 18 ) , who was shot dead by an Israeli soldier on 22 September 2015 . This murder took place alongside a wave of shootings -- many fatal -- against Palestinians by Israeli soldiers at checkpoints in the West Bank . On that day , Hadeel came to Checkpoint 56 on al-Shuhada Street in Hebron ( Occupied Palestinian Territory ) . The metal detector beeped , and the soldiers told her to open her bag , which she did . Inside was a phone , a blue Pilot pen , a brown pencil case , and other personal belongings . A soldier yelled at her in Hebrew , which she did not understand . Thirty-four-year-old Fawaz Abu Aisheh , who was nearby , intervened and told her what was being said . More soldiers arrived and aimed their guns at both Hadeel and Fawaz . One soldier fired a warning shot and then shot Hadeel in the left leg . <p> At this point , a soldier , claiming he saw a knife , fired several shots into Hadeel 's chest , who was photographed standing still moments before . After being left on the ground for some time , she was taken to a hospital , where she died of blood loss and multi-system failure resulting from the gunshot wounds . Human rights organisations such as Amnesty International and B'Tselem said that the question of the knife was moot since Hadeel had been the subject of an ' extrajudicial execution ' ( let alone the fact that testimonies about the knife were inconsistent ) . Tatour 's depiction of Hadeel 's execution in broad daylight is a powerful reminder of the waves of violence that structure the daily lives of Palestinians . <p> A month after Hadeel was killed , I met a group of teenagers in a refugee camp near Ramallah . They told me that they see no outlet for their frustrations and anger . What they do see is the daily humiliation of their families and friends by the Occupation , which drives them to desperation . ' We have to do something ' , Nabil says . His eyes are tired . He looks older than his teenage years . He has lost friends to Israeli violence . ' We marched to Qalandiya last year in a peaceful protest ' , Nabil tells me . ' They fired at us . My friend died ' . Colonial violence bears down on his spirit . Around him young children are executed with impunity by the Israeli military . Nabil 's body twitches with anxiety and fear . <p> I have thought about those teenagers often , especially over the last year , which has been defined by the escalation of the US-Israeli genocide against Palestinians . I think of them because of the barrage of stories about young people like Hadeel and Nabil 's friend being killed by Israeli troops not just in Gaza , but in the West Bank . <p> On 3 November 2024 , fourteen-year-old Naji al-Baba from Halhul , north of Hebron , came home from school with his father Nidal Abdel Moti al-Baba . They ate molokhia , his favourite , for lunch , and then Naji told his father he was going to play football . Naji and his friends played next to his grandfather 's shop . Israeli soldiers arrived and shot at the boys , hitting Naji in the pelvis , foot , heart , and shoulder . After the funeral , Nasser Merib , the manager of the Halhul Sports Club , where Naji practised , said that he had a strong right foot . ' He was ambitious and dreamed of becoming international like Ronaldo ' . That dream was destroyed by the Israeli occupation . <p> The death of a young person is an unforgivable act . The death of a child is particularly hard to fathom . Naji could have captained the Palestinian football team . Hadeel could have become an extraordinary scientist . Their families look at the photographs that remain and weep . In Gaza , other families sit in tents with no way to remember their lost children , their bodies obliterated or missing and their pictures turned to ash in the rubble . So much death . So much inhumanity . <p> If time and struggle allow us , we will be able to properly awaken the dreams of humanity . But the night before dawn will be long and hard . We crave humanity , but we do not expect it to arrive easily . Small voices call out for a new world , and many feet march to build it . To get there will require putting an end to war and occupation and to the ugliness of capitalism and imperialism . We know that we live in pre-history , in the era before true human history will begin . How we long for that socialist world , where Naji and Hadeel will have a future before them and not just a brief interlude in our world . <p> Happy New Year . May it bring us closer to humanity . <h> Leave a Reply <p> Disclaimer : The comments contained within this website are personal reflection only and do not necessarily reflect the views of the LankaWeb . LankaWeb.com offers the contents of this website without charge , but does not necessarily endorse the views and opinions expressed within . Neither the LankaWeb nor the individual authors of any material on this Web site accept responsibility for any loss or damage , however caused ( including through negligence ) , which you may directly or indirectly suffer arising out of your use of or reliance on information contained on or accessed through this Web site . All views and opinions presented in this article are solely those of the surfer and do not necessarily represent those of LankaWeb.com . <p> This entry was posted on Friday , December 27th , 2024 . You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 feed . You can skip to the end and leave a response .
