<p> The Standard Group Plc is a multi-media organization with investments in media platforms spanning newspaper print operations , television , radio broadcasting , digital and online services . The Standard Group is recognized as a leading multi-media house in Kenya with a key influence in matters of national and international interest . <h> DIGGER CLASSIFIED <h> Islamic countries should seek peace and prosperity jointly <h> Loading Article ... <p> For the best experience , please enable JavaScript in your browser settings . <p> People inspect the site of reported Israeli bombardment on tents sheltering Palestinians displaced from Beit Lahia at a camp in Khan Yunis in the southern GazaStrip on December 25 , 2024 . AFP <p> As a student of international relations with decades at the forefront of global diplomacy , I write this not as a representative of the Iranian government but solely in my personal capacity . My experiences have taught me that achieving stability in West Asia , particularly the Persian Gulf region , requires more than mere crisis management . It demands bold , visionary initiatives . I propose the establishment of a Muslim West Asian Dialogue Association ( MWADA ) as the mechanism to achieve this transformation . <p> MWADA should invite all core Muslim countries in West Asia -- Bahrain , Egypt , Iran , Iraq , Jordan , Kuwait , Lebanon , Oman , Qatar , Saudi Arabia , ( the future government of ) Syria , Turkey , the United Arab Emirates and Yemen -- to engage in comprehensive negotiations . Relevant envoys from the United Nations can take part too . This initiative should be grounded in the sublime values of our common religion , Islam , and on the principles of sovereignty , territorial integrity , non-intervention and collective security . MWADA , meaning " amity " in Arabic -- the language of our collective prayers -- ought to aim to foster peaceful coexistence and equitable partnerships . <p> A key priority is the establishment of immediate sustainable , permanent ceasefires in Gaza , Lebanon , Syria and Yemen . A non-aggression pact among MWADA states , coupled with collective regional monitoring , will help institutionalise stability and protect the region from external interference as well as from internal strife . <p> Economic integration is also central to the vision . The lack of interdependence within West Asia stems from fragmented trade networks , insufficient attention to the development of intra-regional banking and payment mechanisms , political rivalries and a reliance on external markets . A proposed MWADA Development Fund can finance critical infrastructure projects , particularly in devastated post-conflict areas . Additionally , governance reforms in Syria -- as a basis for economic assistance -- will promote accountability and lay the groundwork for a safe and stable country where women and minorities can thrive . <p> Post-Assad Syria presents a major challenge to us all . Unbridled Israeli aggression disregarding Syrian sovereignty , foreign interference undermining Syrian territorial integrity , horrifying scenes of violence and brutality reminiscent of Islamic State savagery , and ethnic and sectarian violence -- which may lead to an all-out civil war -- require the immediate attention of the proposed MWADA . <p> The humanitarian disaster in Palestine also remains critical for regional stability . MWADA must prioritise Palestinian self-determination and support just solutions while fully respecting the aspirations of the people . This should involve not just political solutions but also economic opportunities and the recognition of Palestinian rights . <p> MWADA will provide fertile ground for infrastructure projects , from transport to energy pipelines and telecommunication networks . These will facilitate not only the movement of goods but also the exchange of energy , information and services .
