<p> The Standard Group Plc is a multi-media organization with investments in media platforms spanning newspaper print operations , television , radio broadcasting , digital and online services . The Standard Group is recognized as a leading multi-media house in Kenya with a key influence in matters of national and international interest . <h> Loading Article ... <p> For the best experience , please enable JavaScript in your browser settings . <p> This photo shows the destruction of the Sanaa International Airport after Israeli airstrikes in Sanaa , Yemen , on Dec. 27 , 2024 . Xinhua <p> Operations at Sanaa International Airport and Hodeidah Port have resumed normal activities following a series of strikes launched by Israel , the Houthi group said on Friday . <p> " Sanaa International Airport and Hodeidah Port are fully prepared to operate at full capacity , " Mohammed Qahim , head of Houthi transport authorities , told the Houthi-run Saba News Agency , adding that the airport is technically capable of receiving civilian flights , UN aircraft , and humanitarian aid deliveries around the clock . <p> Qahim also criticized the recent Israeli airstrikes , which he claimed were aimed at disrupting air traffic and maritime operations in Yemen . <p> The Israeli warplanes on Thursday hit Houthi-used infrastructures in the Sanaa International Airport , and the Hezyaz and Ras Kanatib power stations , both located in Houthi-controlled areas , as well as the ports of Hodeidah , Salif , and Ras Kanatib on the western coast , the military said in a statement , claiming that Houthis used those sites to smuggle Iranian weapons into the region and for the entry of senior Iranian officials . <p> The Houthi-run al-Masirah TV reported that the strikes caused significant damage , killing at least six people and injuring dozens of others . A UN staff member , who arrived in the Yemeni capital for the negotiation over the release of UN staff detained by the Houthi group , was among the injured . <p> Following the assault , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu reaffirmed his resolve to dismantle the Houthis ' military capabilities , saying , " We are determined to cut off this terror arm of the Iranian axis of evil . " <p> The Houthis , who control much of northern Yemen , have been launching regular rocket and drone attacks against Israel and disrupting " Israeli-linked " shipping in the Red Sea since November 2023 to show solidarity with Palestinians in Gaza amid their conflict with Israelis .
