<p> The Standard Group Plc is a multi-media organization with investments in media platforms spanning newspaper print operations , television , radio broadcasting , digital and online services . The Standard Group is recognized as a leading multi-media house in Kenya with a key influence in matters of national and international interest . <h> ENTERPRISE <h> DIGGER CLASSIFIED <h> Xinhua 's top 10 world news events in 2024 <h> Loading Article ... <p> For the best experience , please enable JavaScript in your browser settings . <p> Chinese President Xi Jinping and foreign leaders arrive for the opening ceremony of the 2024 Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation ( FOCAC ) at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing , capital of China , September 5 , 2024 . Xinhua <p> The following are the top 10 world news events in the year of 2024 selected by Xinhua : <p> China 's head-of-state diplomacy opens new chapter <p> In 2024 , Chinese President Xi Jinping attended three major diplomatic events at home : the Conference Marking the 70th Anniversary of the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence , the China-Arab States Cooperation Forum , and the Beijing Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation . He made four important visits abroad -- to Europe , Central Asia , and Latin America , attended a series of multilateral summits , had in-depth strategic communication with other national leaders , and made personal efforts to reach out to peoples of other countries . China 's major-country diplomacy with Chinese characteristics , under the guidance of head-of-state diplomacy , has demonstrated a grand picture and a keen sense of responsibility amid profound global changes unseen in a century , leading the trend of the times toward peace , development , and win-win cooperation . <p> China 's Chang'e-6 retrieves world 's first lunar far-side samples <p> From May 3 to June 25 , the Chang'e-6 lunar probe completed a 53-day space journey , bringing back the world 's first samples from the far side of the Moon . On Dec. 17 , the Shenzhou-19 crew members completed a record-breaking nine-hour extravehicular activity . Over the past year , space programs in other countries have also made significant strides : U.S. company SpaceX 's Starship test ended with a remarkable ' chopstick ' booster catch , and Japan 's H3 rocket and Europe 's Ariane 6 rocket made their respective successful first launch . <p> Multiple European countries undergo political changes <p> In June , right and far-right wing parties secured more seats in the European Parliament elections , gaining traction amid public dissatisfaction with issues such as economy , people 's livelihood , and immigration . Under both internal and external pressures , the political landscapes of several European countries have shifted : France replaced three prime ministers in a row within one year ; the British Conservative Party suffered a crushing defeat in the parliamentary elections , allowing the Labour Party to return to power after 14 years ; following the collapse of the governing coalition , German Chancellor Olaf Scholz failed a vote of confidence in parliament . <p> Fed 's interest-rate cuts mark start of new easing cycle <p> On Sept. 18 , the Federal Reserve announced a significant cut in interest rates of 50 basis points , marking the start of a new easing cycle , which saw a further cut of 25 basis points in November and December respectively . In response , major central banks worldwide , notably the European Central Bank , adjusted their monetary policies . The Fed 's shift towards a looser monetary policy is expected to provide more liquidity to global markets , helping alleviate inflation and debt repayment pressures in some countries in the short term , but meanwhile bringing fresh uncertainties to the world economy . <p> On Oct. 8 and 9 , the 2024 Nobel Prizes in Physics and Chemistry were awarded to works in machine learning and protein structure prediction models respectively . Over the past year , artificial intelligence has become a key tool for scientific innovation . The Sora video-generation AI model has prompted a new wave of text-to-video creation , AI-powered devices have driven a revival in consumer electronics , and tech giants have doubled down on investments in AI chips . By pushing for the UN General Assembly 's unanimous adoption of a resolution to strengthen international cooperation in AI capacity building , China has contributed significant insights and impetus to global AI development and governance . <p> Greater BRICS Cooperation accelerates rise of Global South <p> The 16th BRICS Summit , held in Russia on Oct. 22-24 , initiated the greater BRICS cooperation . The Global South , with China as a key member , is standing out with a strong momentum . Over the past year , Xi has called for more open and inclusive Global South cooperation and unveiled eight measures to enhance Global South cooperation . He has also launched the " five cooperation frameworks " with Arab nations , proposed 10 partnership actions for modernization to deepen China-Africa cooperation , and outlined eight actions to support global development . These endeavors have highlighted China 's unwavering commitment to promoting unity and self-reliance among Global South countries . <p> Protracted Ukraine crisis heightens Russia-West tensions <p> On Nov. 19 , Ukraine fired U.S.-made missiles for the first time into Russian territory . On the same day , Russia revised its nuclear deterrence policy , issuing a stark warning to the West . Over the past year , Ukrainian forces have raided Russian soil and Russian forces have made advances in eastern Ukraine . Long-range weapons and cluster bombs have been used , as the United States and other Western nations have continued to provide Ukraine with military aid . NATO conducted its largest military exercise since the Cold War and approved the accession of Sweden as its member , resulting in an increasingly strained relationship with Russia . <p> On Dec. 4 , " Spring Festival , social practices of the Chinese people in celebration of traditional new year " was inscribed on the UNESCO Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity . Over the past year , the Spring Festival and the Beijing Central Axis were both recognized as UNESCO heritages , the China-proposed International Day for Dialogue among Civilizations has obtained worldwide support , the surge of " China Travel " fueled by visa-free policies has showcased the growing appeal of Chinese culture , and action game " Black Myth : Wukong " has captivated gamers worldwide . China 's cultural appeal on the global stage continues to grow , and the Global Civilization Initiative is gaining increasing support across the globe . <p> Syrian opposition forces overthrow al-Assad government <p> On Dec. 8 , Syrian militant groups led by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , launched a swift offensive to seize Damascus . The toppling of Bashar al-Assad 's government marked a significant turning point in Syria 's 13-year civil war . Israel then occupied Syrian-controlled areas of the Golan Heights and conducted large-scale airstrikes on Syrian military targets . The drastic changes in Syria 's political landscape have intensified geopolitical rivalry among regional and global powers , adding further uncertainties to the future of the Middle East . <p> Palestine-Israel conflict triggers rounds of regional escalations <p> As of Dec. 16 , Israeli military operations in Gaza have killed over 45,000 people in Palestine and injured more than 100,000 others . The 14-month-old conflict has devastated Gaza , leaving some 2 million residents grappling with a relentless blockade and incessant bombardment in a humanitarian crisis that continues to worsen . Meanwhile , Israel-Lebanon , Israel-Iran , and Red Sea tensions have also been heightening . Supplying weapons to Israel , the United States was bent on blocking UN Security Council resolutions calling for a Gaza ceasefire , drawing widespread condemnation from the international community .
