<p> The Standard Group Plc is a multi-media organization with investments in media platforms spanning newspaper print operations , television , radio broadcasting , digital and online services . The Standard Group is recognized as a leading multi-media house in Kenya with a key influence in matters of national and international interest . <h> DIGGER CLASSIFIED <h> A journey through happenings of the year that was <h> Loading Article ... <p> For the best experience , please enable JavaScript in your browser settings . <p> Chairperson of Indian conglomerate Adani Group , Gautam Adani addresses a gathering during the inaugural session of Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit 2024 in Gandhinagar on January 10 , 2024 . FILE , Standard <p> A : Adani deals . Nothing dominated public discourse in Kenya in the final quarter of the year like government deals with India 's Adani Group , owned by Gautam Adani , one of the richest men in Asia . Two deals -- one to run Jomo Kenyatta International Airport and another , a public-private partnership with the Ministry of Energy for the firm to operate Ketraco power lines infrastructure -- created an uproar after a series of whistleblower revelations . The deals were eventually cancelled by President William Ruto in late November , a day after Adani had been indicted for fraud in the US <p> B : Broad-based government . Following rampant anti-government protests that culminated in an unprecedented breach of Parliament in June , President Ruto dismissed his Cabinet . In a bid to appease the Opposition , and with the belief that this would quell popular dissent , the President appointed several members from the ODM party into government as Cabinet Secretaries . In an interesting twist of events , they have since been seen to actively echo pro-government rhetoric , much to the chagrin of Kenyans , supporting the same policies they once bitterly opposed . <p> C : Chief of Defence Forces . On April 188 , a military helicopter crashed in Sindar , Elgeyo Marakwet County , killing the Chief of Kenya Defence Forces , Gen Francis Omondi Ogolla , who had been on a mission to reopen schools that had been closed due to banditry . He died alongside nine other military personnel , with two others injured . The General 's death generated considerable national furore , with some suggesting that the crash resembled a haphazardly executed assassination . Serious questions were subsequently raised about the helicopter , one of six Bell UH-1H Huey II helicopters acquired by the army from the US in 2016 , and the safety of these helicopters <p> D : Donald Trump . The now US President-elect , Donald Trump , was found guilty of 34 felony counts and convicted early in the year . As his woes worsened , he was shot at and injured during a campaign rally in July . However , Trump staged a phenomenal comeback to the presidency , winning the top seat in November . In doing so , he became the second US president ever -- after Grover Cleveland -- to return to power after a hiatus . <p> E : Eclipse . A total solar eclipse swept across North America , passing over Mexico , the United States , and Canada on April 8 , 2024 . Dubbed ' ' The Great North American Eclipse ' , it was the only solar eclipse in the 21st century with totality visible from all three of the aforementioned countries . For scientists , this was a remarkable event , worth noting in their journals for 2024 . The next total eclipse of similar width is expected to take place on August 12 , 2045 , although several other regions will experience solar eclipses of varying degrees before then . <p> F : Floods . Between April and May , torrential rainfall hit Kenya and Tanzania , leaving a trail of destruction across both countries . ReliefWeb estimated that 267 people were killed in Kenya by the end of April , and 188 were injured . Seventy five went missing , while 281,835 people ( 56,367 families ) were displaced . On April 29 , a railway embankment collapsed near Mai Mahiu , sending down a river that claimed 61 lives and flattened entire homesteads . Ill-equipped disaster response mechanisms were noted as one of the many reasons for the significant losses . <p> G : Gaza war : The armed conflict between Israel and Palestine , which started on October 7 , 2023 , raged on throughout the year . Several institutions , including the Gaza Health Ministry , reported total casualties of more than 53,000 ( at the time of going to press ) . Calls for a ceasefire have repeatedly borne no fruit , with regular , intermittent bombardments on the Gaza Strip , whose amenities have increasingly been targeted by Israel and face total destruction . <p> H : Harris ' bid . After relentless calls from powerful quarters , 82-year-old US President Joe Biden stepped down from the presidential race , leaving the ticket to , and endorsing , his vice president Kamala Harris . At the time of his exit , Biden was the oldest president in US history . <p> I : Iran President . In another unfortunate air accident , on May 19 , Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi , who had served in his position for three years , died . He was known as the ' Butcher of Tehran ' due to his involvement in the 1998 execution of thousands of political prisoners and was largely a polarising figure as president . <p> J : Jobs in Germany . President Ruto announced that Kenya and Germany had reached an agreement in which 250,000 skilled and semi-skilled workers would be sent to Germany . Berlin refuted claims about the numbers , stating that they would be based on the skill set of eligible Kenyans and available opportunities . Heated online debates followed , with opponents of the move being highly critical of the government 's drive to export labour . However , the first batch of Kenyan drivers arrived in Germany in September . <p> K : Keir Starmer . The United Kingdom got its sixth prime minister in eight years -- a period that began with David Cameron stepping down after losing the Brexit vote in June 2016 -- when Prime Minister Rishi Sunak lost the General Election in July , after less than two years in office . Keir Starmer had been , until then , the leader of the opposition . His victory ended 14 years of Conservative Party governance <p> L : Leadership . There has been a popular sentiment that Kenyans are over-represented in the two levels of government . But 2024 shows real , serious gaps in leadership , with politicians flip-flopping- barely standing for anything , changing their beliefs sporadically and supporting conflicting ideologies depending on the coalitions that have been developing in the country . <p> M : Mexico . Former Mayor and Head of Government of Mexico City , Claudia Sheinbaum Pardo , became the 66th president of Mexico in October in what was a landslide victory . In doing so , she also became the first woman to hold the office . She replaced the centre-left Andr ? s Manuel L ? pez Obrador . <p> N : Namibia . In the south of Africa , Namibians elected Ndemupelila Netumbo Nandi-Ndaitwah as the fifth president and the first female president . The 72-year-old is a woman of many firsts ; she served as the country 's third vice president from February 2024 and , in that capacity , was also the first woman . Namibia became one of very few African countries to elect a female president . <p> O:Opposition politician Alexei Navalny dies . Russia has been in the headlines for a long time , and for a number of issues , chief among them its attack on Ukraine . Another key issue was the death of Navalny , one of Vladimir Putin 's fiercest critics , who founded the Anti-Corruption Foundation in 2011 to investigate -- with the aim of combating -- corruption in Russia . He was poisoned in 2020 , jailed in 2021 , and died in 2024 . The prison service stated that he lost consciousness shortly before his death . <p> P : President Biden pardons Hunter . Despite promising not to , US President Joe Biden on December 1 ' ' fully and unconditionally ' ' pardoned his son , Hunter . Biden had promised not even to commute his son 's sentence . Hunter faced sentencing for federal tax and gun convictions , and his father 's decision to pardon him was met with significant discontent , with AP News reporting that only about two in 10 Americans approved of the decision . The Hunter issue was used by Republicans to campaign against his father . <p> Q : Queen Margrethe II . After serving for 52 years and becoming the second-longest serving Danish monarch ever , Queen Margrethe abdicated at the age of 84 , paving the way for her son , Crown Prince Frederik , 55 , to take the top seat . Her story has many similarities with that of Queen Elizabeth II , who also inherited her seat from her father , King George VI , and although she exited by death , left it to her son , King Charles III . <p> R : Riggy G 's woes . It has been a topsy-turvy year for Rigathi Gachagua , the self-declared ' Truthful Man ' , who was Kenya 's second Deputy President . Gachagua endured an unremarkable year in 2024 , facing accusations of attempting to sabotage his boss , the president , and was subsequently impeached . The National Assembly voted overwhelmingly to impeach him , with 282 votes to 44 , and the Senate , which required a two-thirds majority to remove Gachagua , confirmed his impeachment . <p> S : Syria civil war . Bashar al-Assad , who had been the President of Syria since 2000 , was ousted on December 8 , with rebel troops marching into Damascus . It had seemed impossible to remove the autocratic Assad family , which had been in power for six decades and had overseen intermittent bouts of civil war . Assad quickly fled to Moscow to seek political asylum from the Russian government . <p> T : Tebogo . Star sprinter Letsile ' Schoolboy ' Tebogo won a gold medal in the 200m race at the 2024 Summer Olympics in Paris , France , marking a first for Botswana . He set an African record of 19.46 seconds in the event . In doing so , the sprinter established himself as one of the finest short-distance runners in the world . <p> U : Uganda 's Kizza Besigye . After recurrent cases of abductions in the city and calls for President Ruto to take action , Uganda 's opposition leader Kizza Besigye was arrested by security forces in Nairobi on November 20 and ferried to Uganda . Despite initial claims by Kenya 's government of its non-involvement in his capture , Uganda confirmed it had enlisted the support of Kenya to arrest Besigye , with the aim of charging him in a Kampala court . Besigye has been a long-time opponent and critic of long-serving Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni . " <p> V : Vladimir wins election . Yet again , Russia 's President Vladimir Putin won a fifth term with an unprecedented 88 per cent of the vote in post-Soviet Russia and was inaugurated on May 7 . Putin has been either Prime Minister or President since 2000 . Since February 2022 , Russia has been engaged in a sustained invasion of Ukraine , from which he has refused to back down . <p> W- Wikileaks ' Assange released . Julian Assange , an editor and activist , was arrested in April 2019 and sentenced to 50 weeks in jail for breaching earlier bail conditions . He was then taken to London 's maximum-security Belmarsh prison . Assange , who founded WikiLeaks in 2006 , had the first arrest warrants issued against him in 2010 and was arrested and granted bail the same year . In 2019 , a federal grand jury in the US indicted him on 17 new alleged violations of the Espionage Act . He was released from jail on bail on June 24 , then pleaded guilty to one count of breaching the Espionage Act soon after and was allowed to return home to Australia . <p> X : X ban lifted in Brazil . Within six weeks , between August and October , a ban on X was introduced and then quashed , as Elon Musk 's platform had been accused of failing to comply with laws in Brazil . Fines were to be paid and a local representative appointed , and after weeks of defiance , X was deemed to have complied , leading a Supreme Court judge to lift the ban in the first week of October . <p> Y:Your year ? Do you remember starting the year holding onto the hope that this would be your year ? Writing down resolutions ? Did you make a conscious effort to ensure you achieved what you wanted ? Have you reflected on what went right and should therefore be upheld , and what went wrong and needs to change ? We often say that every year is our year . Does that include 2024 ? " <p> Z : Zambia 's Lungu barred from re-election . Zambia 's Constitutional Court barred former President Edgar Lungu from vying again in 2026 . Lungu became president in 2015 after President Michael Sata died in office in October 2014 . He has claimed that he did not complete a full term and should be allowed to start a fresh one .
