<p> The conversation was sobering . Despite numerous ostensible efforts at " greening of warfare , " the material and energy usage of current conflicts is astonishingly large . A neglected aspect of the cost of war that came through was the infrastructure damage and reconstruction footprint . The Conflict Environment Observatory , a charity based in the UK has the most detailed tracking of the environmental footprint of wars . A presentation at the event by Linsey Cottrell from the Observatory presented data collected by the Initiative for GHG Accounting of War and is presented in the pie chart below . They calculated that in the current Ukraine war , the largest carbon footprint by far of the war will be in reconstruction of destroyed infrastructure . This could be even worse per capital for the war in Gaza given the far greater amount of bombing intensity in that conflict . <p> Estimates of emissions from the war in Ukraine from data starting 24 February 222 to September 1 , ... + 2023 , based on calculations by Initiative on GHG Accounting of War and partners . Lennard De Klerk , December 2023 . Open-Source Data and Report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of environmental resources as a weapon of war has been observed in modern conflicts , most recently the oil spills and fires that were started by the Saddam regime following the first Gulf War . Environmental clean-up has thus been given a security dynamic and the United Nations Environment Program set up a post-conflict assessment process after that conflict which is now housed within their " Disaster and Conflict " unit . Yet , the challenge remains as to how much of these efforts at data gathering can motivate change among adversaries in hastening peace agreements . From all indications in the current conflicts , environmental factors are low politics and are on no one 's radar in terms of mitigating conflict intensity or duration . <p> Historically , countries with large militaries have used such excess capacity by volunteering troops for peacekeeping through the United Nations system . Countries such as Bangladesh and Pakistan , which have very large militaries , have often been key providers of military human capital for peacekeeping missions with the United Nations , that are often labeled " blue helmet " missions . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ role for militaries in international environmental conservation , remediation , and enforcement missions ( green helmets ) . <p> The United States Department of Defense ( DoD ) has an " Army Environmental Command . " The USAEC mission states that it is " committed to delivering environmental solutions in support of U.S. Army readiness and sustainability . " There is also the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers that has been involved in numerous environmental remediation projects . Such organizations within current militaries provide some hope that environmental factors could lead to more informed decisions , but they must also be part of the broader calculus of combat decisions . In this election year the immense power that the world 's largest miliary has should also be used to raise alarm about the environmental impact of war -- and also as a motivation for more rapid peace-making.
