Text ID: t023379
Group:   global_south_2024_12
File:    corpus/04_now_screened_iqr_cap/global_south_2024_12/in/118359779.txt

Score (f6_neg): 1
Loading words (f6_neg), N=1: f7 score: 0
<h> How Would Kanafani and Edward Said Position This Genocide In Gaza <h> ' Palestinian , you are on your own ! ' <p> Ghassan Kanafani and Edward Said remain two of the most influential Palestinian public intellectuals of our time . Much of their reputation derives from their critique of Zionism , colonialism , in its various forms , Arab despotism and oligarchy . The question is what would they have said about the current events in Palestine ? What would they have said about October 7th and the subsequent ongoing Genocide ? How would they have positioned this particular historical moment within the world of " representation and historical narrative " ? <p> Both Kanafani and Said would have started by reminding us that settler-colonial Israel was built on the ruins of the indigenous people of Palestine , whose livelihoods , houses , culture , and land had been systematically destroyed long before October 7 . ( Men in the Sun , The Land of Sad Oranges , The Question of Palestine , and The Politics of Dispossession are but a few of their visionary writings in this regard . ) <p> Said would have made it absolutely clear that It 's time for the international community to understand that the price Israel demanded for offering the Palestinians a form of limited administrative autonomy , i.e , less than a Bantustan , was a total surrender of any national struggle or agenda . ( As he did in " The Morning After " ) <p> And Kanafani would have reminded us that Genocide denial in Israel and the colonial West is aided by the overall negation of the Palestinians as a people . Genocide , Kanafani would have maintained , is being perpetrated in Gaza and denied both by Apartheid Israel and the United States . Because the mechanism of denial is so forceful in genocidal Israel and among its supporters in the colonial West , it is of utmost importance for the Palestinian people and the peoples of the global South to " bang on the walls of the tank " , so that they can be heard by people on the outside . <p> Both giant intellectuals would have reminded the world how it has been Apartheid Israel 's policy to erase the distinction between civilian and non-civilian targets through senseless , mass killings that have turned all Gaza , and now Lebanon , into one ' legitimate ' military target . <p> The escalation in military means by employing all possible killing machines the Israeli occupation forces possess . The escalation is conspicuous in the number of casualties : with each so-called military operation ( or rather , with each acceleration of the deliberate and planned Genocide ) , a much larger number of people get killed and wounded , especially children and women . The ' military operations ' have become a strategy in themselves in order to solve ' the Gaza problem " . <p> Said would have quoted Colonel Gabby Siboni who back in 2009 , told an academic conference at the Institute for National Security in Tel Aviv university that the Dahiyya doctrine ( an Israeli euphemism for unbridled destruction of Palestinian infrastructure and often , lives ) would apply to Gaza and that " ( it ) is meant to inflict damage that would take ages to recover from " . <p> But because , to quote Said , " where cruelty and injustice are concerned , hopelessness is submission , and therefore ... is immoral . " Therefore , resistance must become the rule . Kanafani 's literary texts are , as most of my Gazan students have told me , our " living reality " . Gaza IS the " land of sad oranges " where , in the words of a displaced student from Gaza City , Returning to Haifa is being enacted And All That 's Left is our will to resist/exist <p> This is why Said argued , eloquently , that " the power to narrate , or to block other narratives from forming and emerging , is very important to culture and imperialism , and constitutes one of the main connections between them . " Is this why we are writing our stories ? And why Genocide Israel is deliberately killing Palestinian academics , intellectuals , and journalists ? <p> Undoubtedly , both writers would have publicly raised " embarrassing questions , .. confronted orthodoxy and dogma ( rather than produced them ) , would not have been easily co-opted by governments or corporations , and whose raison d ' ? tre would have been to represent all those people and issues that are routinely forgotten or swept under the rug " , namely forgotten , slaughtered Gazans , as Said wrote in Representations of the Intellectual . But neither of them would have appeared on Piers Morgan 's genocide-washing program to answer his tired , racist clich ? d questions . <p> Let me close with a quote from another Palestinian intellectual giant , Mahmoud Darwish . This is a verse that offers what I believe is a combination of the best of Kanafani and Said 's visionary input : <p> " My prison guard looks me in the eye/ I can see his fear/ Like me , he knows that/ today 's warden is already tomorrow 's prisoner " . <p> Professor HAIDAR EID was in Gaza 's al-Aqsa University until recently . A witness to the ongoing genocide this renowned scholar has written several books , and raised his voice for justice for the Palestinians through the decades . The views expressed here are the writer 's own .
