<h> From , To <p> At ten o'clock on a Wednesday night , he gets a call from his aunt 's number . It 's late to get a call from his aunt , but his mother is often with his aunt , and it 's not unusual for her to call at that hour . But it 's his aunt on the line , her voice pained , then disintegrating . <p> And that 's it ; he feels a plummet and a deletion commensurate with the space his mother occupied in his life . Nothing will fill it . He knows this from his father 's death . He 'll go around with another amorphous blank , until he himself becomes one in the consciousnesses of his children . <p> There are immediate tangible demands that require a clarity of mind that eludes him . Normally , he prides himself on precisely this kind of ability . His work , in real-estate law , consists almost entirely of accurately doing things in the proper sequence . But at first he ca n't even make sense of what his aunt tells him . His mother has died but his aunt is not with her . His mother is on the roof of her condominium . She was playing Rummikub with other Russian Jewish women . The paramedics came . He must go to his mother 's condominium . He must call the funeral home . <p> It is his week with his younger daughter and she is asleep . Does he wake her ? Does he call his ex-wife ? Does he call the woman he is dating , who is at home with her own children ? Does he call his older daughter at the encampment ? He decides on his older daughter , because he will need to tell her anyway , and there is something in him that wants to speak with her , to , in a selfish and perverse way , use this death to evoke a connection . <p> He does n't know the etiquette of calling his daughter at the encampment . She shares her tent with her girlfriend and he imagines that a phone call from him would be perceived as unwelcome or intrusive . But his daughter answers right away , and her voice is gentle and calm , as if there were nothing at odds between them . It 's consistent with his sense of her , what he has always loved and admired , her innate inclination toward tolerance , compassion , and mercy . As if , despite her mounting disapprovals , she believes in his capacity to reform . <p> This is her first death . An irreducible part of her life is gone . If things were not so bizarrely strained between them , would it be any easier to find the words to initiate her into it ? <p> " Mila , I need you to come home . " <p> " Why ? " <p> " Babi died . " <p> There 's a silence . <p> " Will you come ? " <p> " O.K. " <p> " I 'll wait for you . " <p> This is the conversation he has with his daughter , in her tent , on the grounds of her university campus , sectioned off by temporary fencing , festooned with posters and revolutionary slogans , ringed with Palestinian flags , under the skyline of an affluent North American city . <p> He orders her an Uber and taps in instructions for the driver , a young man with a Muslim name whose sympathies he infers . Even now , with his mother dead , there is space in his head for this thought . For some thoughts , rarely the best ones , there is infinite space . <p> He sits at his dining-room table and watches the progress of the Uber on his phone . It is like a primitive video game from his youth . The little car approaches the university gates . It turns . It comes to a stop . It spins around and proceeds toward his apartment with his daughter inside . <p> All that passes for normal life strikes him as mockingly , even malevolently , strange . <p> As he waits , he calls the funeral home , the same one that ushered his father and his grandparents and almost every other Soviet Jew he 's known out of this world . His father used to say leerily , " I do n't want to go to that place . " But he went . There is someone at the funeral home to answer the phone at any hour and the service is arranged for the next day . <p> The last time he saw his older daughter was two weeks ago , when his mother came to visit and wanted to see both girls . His daughters ate the food his mother brought and answered the same questions about school that she always posed . But because of what was in the news and what she heard from friends with grandchildren Mila 's age , his mother also asked about the encampment and if Mila felt safe at her university . Mila assured her that she felt safe and that she had friends in the encampment , including Jews , who were just upset about what was happening in Gaza . <p> Afterward , with exceeding slowness , he walked his mother to her car . She tired easily . She expressed concern about whatever it was that was influencing Mila 's thinking . Implicit was the charge that his own laxness had enabled it . With each breath , a sound came from his mother 's chest , as if something within were imperfectly sealed . Old age , she said . <p> This was how it was . They masked or hid from one another that which would cause distress . As a result , when the truth emerged , it was a shock . Or maybe not . Maybe everyone intimated everything . <p> Mila arrives , and he instructs her not to reveal anything to her sister should she wake . Before he leaves , they regard each other and then embrace . He has always been affectionate with his daughters , even as they grew older and there arrived the inevitable and intruding sense of physical distinction , but , when he and Mila hug , it feels as though they must thaw a frozen layer before they can exchange any warmth . <p> It is nearly midnight when he drives to his mother 's condominium . There 's very little traffic and he feels as if he were not so much driving as gliding through space and time . His route takes him past habitual totems of life as his parents ' son : a large Russian grocery , the apartment building they inhabited when they first arrived , a house they bought , the park where they walked -- a small node of the city once infused with a particular and intimate sensibility . This is when he weeps , driving unobserved in the dark , seized by orphanhood . <p> An ambulance is parked in the circular drive in front of his mother 's building . The light is on in the cab and he sees two paramedics inside , as if preparing to leave . <p> There are a handful of people in front of the building , most of them elderly . The building 's residents are primarily pensioners who have downsized from their houses , mostly Jews , including Russian Jews , but also Koreans and Persians . North of the city proper , the building is at the nexus of these three communities . <p> There is a murmuring as he approaches . One of the elderly men , whom he dimly recalls as a client of his , sombrely greets him , and , as he enters the building , he hears himself identified as " the son . " <p> He has his own key , which he uses to enter the building . His own key and his name on the title for estate-planning reasons . There 's a security guard at a station in the lobby , with a series of screens that offer diverse views of the building -- the pool , the gym , the rear entrance , the parking garage , the roof . The guard , a young South Asian woman , new to the position , pays less attention to him than the people outside had . <p> He presses the button for the elevator and rides it in solitude , noting when he passes his mother 's floor . He proceeds to the roof , where everyone is waiting for him . <p> To reach the roof , he pushes open a heavy iron door and then passes between a series of rectangular planters that some residents have claimed as their gardens . He knows which one is his mother 's . She grows dill , green onions , cherry tomatoes , cucumbers . He has the declarative thought , Someone will have to tend it . <p> The area of the roof accessible to the residents is not very big -- under a pergola there is a sturdy wooden table with seating for four . His aunt and uncle , three of his mother 's friends , and a dark-suited representative from the funeral home are all by the table . None of them sit . His mother 's body is on a gurney , zipped up in a black vinyl body bag . The ivory Rummikub tiles are still spread out on the table , along with the blue tile racks at each woman 's position . His mother 's place faces south , because she liked to look toward the lake and the city at sunset . <p> When his aunt sees him , she bursts into tears . She and his mother were fraternal twins who lived their whole lives together . Until they went to university , they shared a bed in a house that lacked indoor plumbing . In old age , they talked on the phone multiple times each day and accompanied each other to doctor 's appointments and on routine errands . He 'd sometimes wondered how one would cope when the other died . <p> His mother 's friends also start to cry . Two of them he has known for decades , practically since they immigrated . The third woman , Tamara , is from the contingent of Soviet Jews who went to Israel first , before electing to migrate again . She was his mother 's closest friend in the building . When he spoke to his mother on the phone and she gave an account of her day , it often began , " I went for a stroll with Tamara . " <p> Tamara stands before him and wrings her hands . <p> " It happened in an instant . We were playing and then she went like this . " <p> She clutches at her chest to mime his mother 's actions , despite the superstition against depicting another 's infirmity on your own body . How many times had his mother admonished him ? " Ne pokazyvay na sebe . " Do n't show on yourself . <p> " She could hardly speak . But she said your name . ' Vadik . ' It was always ' My Vadik . ' " <p> All of this is communicated in Russian , with the man from the funeral home looking on . <p> " He 's played guitar for twenty-five years , but mainly just that one riff . " <p> Cartoon by Adam Douglas Thompson <p> Link copied <p> They have been waiting on the roof out of deference . The man from the funeral home asks him if he would like to look at his mother before she is taken away , but he declines . When his father was dying , from a more agonizing and protracted illness , he 'd resolved to be there for everything , to see everything . He 'd learned that lesson and does n't need to learn it again . <p> With nothing left to do , the man from the funeral home begins wheeling the gurney away , and everyone follows , as if in a procession or a trance . Then they all silently wait for the elevator . Once it arrives , there is a moment of uncertainty about who should go in with his mother 's body . He steps inside with his uncle and aunt , and his aunt insists that his mother 's friends join ; there is enough room for all of them . There is something about this gaggling that feels piercingly emblematic of his life with his family , with this community , the eschewing of proprieties , the clumping together . <p> On his mother 's floor , the doors open and he is struck by the horror of finality . He must get out of the elevator and be apart from her forever . Goodbye , Mama . He places a hand at the base of the body bag to feel some part of her for the last time . <p> He walks along the corridor with his uncle and aunt and unlocks his mother 's apartment . Inside , it is tidy , everything in its place . Framed photos on the wall , mostly of his daughters at different ages . He goes into the kitchen and sees a Pyrex casserole dish , a cup , a plate , and a fork , washed and rinsed beside the sink ; a bowl of green grapes , the globes of fruit detached from the stems the way she preferred ; a free Russian-language newspaper open on the table . What else ? A calendar of Jewish holidays and a tin can with a slot -- a pushka , the quaint Yiddish word for it comes into his head , the charitable container , into which his mother intermittently dropped coins for the Jewish Russian Community Center . Every mundane thing is precious and searing . He loved his mother , but she loved him more . Is that just the way of things ? The child grows apart , separates , contrasts . He would die for his daughters without hesitation . God forgive him , he ca n't say the same thing about his mother . Maybe that is the line between childhood and adulthood , when you begin to hesitate to die for your parents . <p> There 's nothing that needs to be done at his mother 's apartment . He comes out of the kitchen to find his aunt sitting at the dining-room table , shaking her head as if to deny something , and his uncle standing beside her , looking tired and bereft . He is a short , stocky , glowering person , trained to design truck engines , who has known his sister-in-law for more than fifty years , and must also be mourning her and feeling sympathy for his wife and for his nephew . There 's so much to weep about ; it is endless . <p> They take the elevator down together . They part and get into their cars . Before he drives , he calls some old friends who can be relied upon to tell others . He 's received the same calls from them in grim and sacred reciprocity . <p> The lights are on in the apartment when he returns . Both girls are on the couch . The younger one glares at him . She is ten . She still wears pajamas with pictures of unicorns . <p> " Why are you up ? " he asks , though it 's obvious why . <p> " I did n't wake her , " Mila says . <p> He believes her . Awake or asleep , Lily knows if Mila is there . It 's like a sixth sense , reverence . <p> He goes to Lily and takes her up in his arms because she is still small enough and young enough to be taken up . They sit on the couch , the three of them , Lily in his lap , Mila resting against him , all of them sobbing . He thinks , if his mother could see them , how sorry and heartbroken she would be . This was because of her and she could n't comfort them . <p> None of them sleep much . Mila goes to her room . Lily climbs into his bed , as she sometimes does for a treat , but this is not that . If he sleeps , it 's so fleeting as to leave no trace . And yet come dawn he scarcely recalls what occupied his mind all night -- erratic thoughts , fixations , orchestrated disputes . Also the eulogy . If he 'd been scrupulous , he 'd have got up and written something down . Instead , he lay beside Lily . And then it was the light of morning for the condemned and nothing would revoke time or alter the terms of the day . <p> His task is to get up , so he gets up . It is a school day for Lily , so he calls the automated system and selects the appropriate number for " family matter " and then another for " full day " to report her absence . He brews coffee . He knocks on Mila 's door as he used to when , only a year ago , he would wake her for high school . He sits on the bed beside Lily and nudges her shoulder . She opens her eyes and he can see that there is an instant when she still inhabits the former reality before she is besieged by the current one . <p> " Pick out your clothes , " he says . <p> " What do I wear ? " <p> " A dress , if you like . But nothing too bright . " <p> " O.K. , " she says and sits up . <p> She rises , goes to her room . <p> Telling her to pick clothes reminds him that he must do the same . He is a man , a lawyer , he has suits -- even though he mostly works from home and rarely has occasion to wear them . But he must also choose a shirt , one that can be sacrificed . Should it matter which one ? It 's for his mother 's funeral . Sacrifice the whole closet . But he deliberates because he knows she would consider it wasteful to ruin a good shirt . <p> In the kitchen , he turns on the radio , as is his habit . It is the top of the hour -- the international-news brief , led since October with reporting from Gaza . The reporting is unrelentingly bleak . There is little to squabble about in terms of the bleakness . But little still is n't nothing . What is quantitatively small can be qualitatively large . In his mind he inquires of the reporter , of the national newscaster , both of whom are supported substantially by taxpayer dollars , " Why do you never mention . . . ? , " or " Why , only at the very end , do you mention . . . ? " These questions can be spoken aloud only in front of certain types of people . Broadly speaking , Jews . Also conservatives . Conservatives , because , at the moment , this position falls within the scope of their ideology . Jews , because human beings are and always will be clannish . Not all Jews , of course . <p> As a reminder , the national news has an item about the university encampments and the petitions made to the courts in different jurisdictions to have them removed . A student activist is interviewed , a young woman with a Celtic last name , and Mila drifts to the kitchen counter to listen . The student employs the standard terms . She sounds more educated than smart . What does he expect ? She is a representative . She is representing . <p> " Do you know her ? " he asks . <p> " Yeah , " Mila says . " I know her . " <p> The dress Lily chooses is black , long-sleeved , accented at the cuffs and the hem with black lace . <p> " Is it O.K. ? " <p> " Yes . " <p> " It 's the one I wore to your party . " <p> " Right . " <p> He 'd thrown a party for himself when he turned fifty . He was born at the end of September , 1973 , a week before the start of the Yom Kippur War . For the party , he invited family and friends to a Russian restaurant not far from where his mother lived . A big spread . A dance floor . Layers of kitsch . He reasoned that in another decade he would n't be able to throw such a party . His mother , his aunt , his uncle might be gone or in no condition to attend . He assumed that he and his friends would still be around , but this was not necessarily true . And his daughters would be grown . <p> But it did n't require a decade . It had n't been a year , and his mother was dead . And one week after his party homicidal maniacs had started a war that , among a great many other shocking and despicable things , had alienated his daughter from him and from her family and people . <p> There is n't much time before they have to go to the funeral home . He sits down in his office to compose the eulogy . What does he want to say about his mother that is not a platitude ? She let him make his mistakes without letting him forget that she considered them mistakes . But when she was proved right , which was not every time , she was there to help him : " We will get through this together . " They were fundamentally different people who disagreed about many things -- politics , danger , child rearing -- but he prized her resolve , her levelheadedness . His entire life , mostly in secret , he 'd sought her approval . He should have told her . Now he would . What was a eulogy if not a last chance to declare thoughts and feelings that have been withheld ? <p> The service is at noon . They need to arrive earlier . When they do , his aunt and uncle , a cousin , and her son are already in the chamber reserved for the family . The room is just off the main chapel . Through the door , it is possible to see the coffin on its bier , flanked on one side by the national flag , on the other by the Israeli one . For his mother , he has selected a raw-pine box , its only adornment a pine Star of David on the lid . It was the same for his father and for his grandparents . As it was written , to bury promptly with minimal interference so the body could return to where it came from . <p> In time , attendees begin to fill the chapel . Those who are family or very close friends come into the room to offer their condolences . His ex-wife is among them . She knew his mother for two decades and was beloved until the divorce . Daniela Levin , born in Johannesburg , descendant of Lithuanian Jews . They met in law school . He was attracted by the exoticism of her accent and her sharp mind . She was a champion debater , a standout in moot court -- a talent that lent itself less well to connubial life , but nevertheless . She embraces him , the girls , his aunt , his cousin . Her parents , Norman and Eleanor , are with her . " Eleanorman , " Daniela calls them . Kind people . " We ca n't believe it , " they say with their lilt . <p> As the start of the service nears , the rabbi arrives . A formidable person , he has shepherded this community of Soviet Jews since the beginning , going on fifty years . With a razor blade the rabbi makes a tear in his aunt 's blouse and in the shirt that he wears under his suit . According to tradition , there are no other direct mourners -- husband , parents have all passed -- but Mila asks the rabbi to cut her blouse , too . The rabbi hands her the blade . The law does not command it , but neither does it proscribe it . Mila cuts her blouse and makes a tiny nick in the lace of Lily 's dress -- and with the rend grief spills out . <p> The chapel is full . As they take their places in the front , he sees childhood friends , the woman he 's dating , his legal assistant , some of his clients , real-estate agents with whom he does business , and faces from his parents ' generation , the geriatric remnant . The rabbi intones psalms and speaks about his mother , offering recollections of her and the principal details of her life : birth in the embers of the Shoah , Yiddishkeit , Soviet existence , antisemitism , immigration , courage , struggle , family , community , legacy . His aunt , folded over herself , waves off the invitation to speak and then it is him , " the son , " and what he has prepared . He has spoken at his grandparents ' funerals , at his father 's , and now this . Each time , there are fewer people present who were part of the story . As he speaks now , he feels that there is nobody left who can chart the vital co ? rdinates of his life . He is disappearing , becoming diffuse . <p> When he concludes , Mila rises , Lily with her . She reads from her phone about her admiration for her Babi , a person who went through so much , who possessed clear and unwavering principles and a tremendous capacity for love . Her grandmother was her exemplar . Mila delivers her remarks without faltering , more composed than he was . After her , Lily recites all the things his mother had promised to teach her : to speak Russian , to make dumplings , to grow vegetables . Who will do it now ? Nobody will do it as well as her . <p> That is all for the ceremony . The rabbi chants the prayer for the dead ; six pallbearers lift the coffin and take it out to the waiting hearse . Then it is the limousine to the cemetery -- his aunt and uncle , him and the girls . A procession of cars follows . They drive north , past new housing developments , to the large Jewish cemetery where his father is buried . His parents bought a double plot , installed a double headstone ; one half is still smooth and blank , awaiting inscription . <p> He stands with an arm around each daughter while the assembled mourners bury his mother . The concussive sound of the first shovelful of dirt on the pine coffin , like the rending of the garment , shockingly tactile . The day is warm , sunny , quite beautiful . Around the edges of the cemetery are stands of mature trees -- willows , maples . The gravestones have no uniform size , color , or style . There are thousands of them , names carved in English , Hebrew , Russian . Near his parents ' plot is the grave of a Holocaust survivor , the names of his murdered family etched onto the back of the stone . <p> Once it is all done , he and his daughters pass between the ranks of those who remain , some of whom have enough Jewish education to recite the ancient benediction : " May the Almighty comfort you among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem . " He wonders what Mila makes of it , the many liturgical allusions to Israel and the Children of Israel . Does she number herself among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem ? <p> The shiva is to be at his mother 's apartment . He goes there with his daughters to begin the mourning ritual . The mirrors have been covered , the cushions removed from a section of the couch in the living room so that he and his aunt can sit low . In the early afternoon , there are few visitors . Only Tamara and the other women from the roof . Lily disappears into his mother 's room , her closet , her jewelry box . Mila goes through albums to select a photograph to submit to the Exodus , the weekly community newspaper whose back pages are reserved for obituaries . It is the primary function of the paper . Whatever else is printed -- articles about religion , Israel , humor pieces -- is subordinate to the obituaries . Frequently , his mother would call to tell him whose photo she had seen v Eksoduse , in the Exodus -- a habituated use of an English word in place of its Russian equivalent , both broad mistranslations of the original Hebrew , Shemot , names . ( These persecuted Children of Israel , some still with Jewish names , liberated from Soviet bondage for North American redemption . ) <p> They decide on a photograph from a session from Mila 's bat mitzvah , taken five years earlier , his mother with her hair done , wearing her best jewelry , in a dress she 'd bought for the occasion . It had been a proud and happy day for her , a validation of sacrifice and resolve , a datum of continuity , fulfillment of a pact with her parents and generations of cherished pleading phantom hearts . <p> The obituary will appear in the next issue of the paper , and he imagines the phone calls it will elicit : Do you know who I saw in the Exodus ? Basia Katz . He also thinks , Only two more such obituaries to go -- one for his uncle and one for his aunt . By the time he and his cousin die , the Exodus itself will probably no longer exist . <p> In the lull , he goes to his mother 's bedroom and uses her computer to log on to Facebook -- object of ridicule for his daughters , preserve of the tedious old . He hardly uses it , even less since October 7th , as nearly everything he saw posted elicited despair and cast people in the worst possible light -- jingoists , cynics , bigots , fools . People he hardly knew , for whom he could barely kindle a feeling , became thoroughly odious . The shrieking about Zionists , the melding of swastikas with Stars of David , Hitler with Netanyahu . The strings of partisan flags , emblems , and emojis . Injunctions and pledges . Hate and rationalization of all the provenances of brutality . He excised swaths of people from his life : from undergrad , when he 'd majored in English and considered becoming a professor ; a smaller number from law school ; still fewer actual lawyers , brokers , and Realtors -- an inverted pyramid toward a vertex of practicality . The only ones that pained him , that felt like a genuine loss , were a few members of a Facebook group with whom , since the end of the pandemic , he had played soccer twice a week on the grounds of a downtown high school . Most of the players were half his age , came from somewhere else -- Europe , Africa , South America , the Middle East -- and were native to the game , its flow decanted into them . He offered a passable approximation , like a clever pet . From childhood , the game had been a bond with his father , who had been a very good player , good enough to spend his year in the Red Army mostly on the soccer team . Myron Katz . Jew ; athlete . Yevrei ; sportsm ? n . The entirety of a Soviet joke that also described the first half of his father 's life . <p> The soccer Facebook group was ostensibly created to register who could or could not play on any given evening , but it became a place where members teased and cheered one another and posted soccer videos , quotes , and memes . It recalled the early days of the internet , fora for niche enthusiasts , now with incalculably more material -- clips of Lilliputians from the early twentieth century , footage from practically every Olympics and World Cup , as well as the most parochial ephemera . He had devoted days just to the Hungarian national team of the nineteen-fifties , the Mighty Magyars , the Golden Team , his father 's heroes , led by the great and unpronounceable Ferenc Pusk ? s and N ? ndor Hidegkuti . Here were more of life 's disappointments : his father had not lived to see his grandchildren , and he had never got to see his father transported back to the worshipful time of his youth by YouTube . <p> On the soccer Facebook group 's page , he 'd once surrendered to a base urge and checked the personal accounts of some of the members whose origins suggested a certain bent . He found what he 'd dreaded from Padraig and Aziz -- the gruesome videos of weeping fathers , covered in the dust of an air strike , cradling the broken bodies of their children . He was a father . Some of the soccer-group members were fathers , or aspired to be someday . To put himself in the place of the Gazan fathers for even a few seconds was unbearable . The sensation in his heart and his mind breached the bounds of his body and swamped the potential of life . He could almost understand how , from the outside , for another , the totality of a response would be outrage . Except that reality was riddled with almosts . <p> Sitting at his mother 's computer , a portrait of himself as an untrammelled thirteen-year-old deity hanging above him , he types into the Facebook chat that he will miss that week 's game and , after a tug of reticence , provides the reason . Almost immediately , the little avatars pop up , followed by the reactions -- the teardrop emojis and the misspelled and mispunctuated condolences . <p> He returns to the living room to find his aunt on his mother 's cordless phone and Mila out on the balcony off the sunroom talking to someone on her cell . He hears his aunt pronounce in her heavily accented English the words she will say many times during the week of mourning , the declarations of disbelief , the sense of an eerie somnambulance , and the paltry consolation of existence . <p> She sees him , beckons him over , and gives him the phone . On the line is Shulamit , his mother 's cousin in Ashkelon . He has met her twice in his life . Once in Israel , when he and Daniela were on their honeymoon . The other time was when he was a teen-ager , and she and her brother and her father had come to visit . At the time , his mother 's father , Zev Melman , was still living , and it was a reunion between two brothers who had n't seen each other since before the war , when Aron , the oldest , had left what was then independent Latvia for what was then British Mandatory Palestine . Afterward , history had interfered and the family had met its allotted fates . His grandfather had expediently sided with the Soviets and retreated with them as the Nazis advanced . His youngest brother , Mordke , had remained behind and was taken by the Nazis and their Latvian accomplices to a nearby wood , where he was shot , along with his parents and every other Jew in town . When his grandfather , a wounded and decorated Red Army veteran , returned home after the war , there was literally nobody left -- not family , not friends , not rivals . What had been had ceased to be , mathematically . The lesson drawn and instilled by his family was that the Gentile zeal for Jewish death is implacable and that only Jewish strength in a Jewish land can oppose it . That only Jews themselves could provide a plausible answer to the Jewish Question . In his youth , he had tried to refute this , unconvincingly for his family and , ultimately , for himself . <p> On the phone now , Shulamit delivers her words of condolence and then asks if she can pass the phone to her brother Mordke -- named for his murdered uncle -- since he is very affected by the death of his cousin and anxious to express what is on his heart . <p> " Here , Mordke , talk to Vadik , " he hears her say . <p> With Shulamit , he speaks in English . With her brother , he speaks in the Hebrew he acquired and mostly retained from eight years of Hebrew school , an education that he and Daniela elected not to extend to their girls . That decision now , given prevailing conditions , seems , to him , like a mistake . <p> There is a fumbling on the line as the phone is handed over to Mordke , who , before he forms words , hums and mewls in a low tone . Now sedulously described as " neurodivergent " or " on the spectrum , " he would formerly have just been called " simple , " a term that more closely approaches the tenderness and heartache he inspires . <p> " Vadik , " he says . <p> " Hello , Mordke . " <p> " Are you sad ? " <p> " Yes , I 'm sad . " <p> " Are you angry with God ? " <p> " Not about this , Mordke . " <p> " You should n't be angry with God , " Mordke says . " He is in the garden . " <p> " Yes ? " <p> " Yes , He is in the garden . And your mother is in the garden . " <p> " That 's good , " he says . " She loved gardens . " <p> " So do n't be angry or sad . " <p> " All right . Thank you , Mordke , I wo n't be , " he says . <p> There is a pause . Mordke emits his otherworldly sounds and does n't say anything more . <p> When Shulamit returns , he asks her how she is keeping . <p> " What can I tell you , Vadik ? Bardak . " A word identical in Russian and Hebrew . A mess . A disaster . " The rockets come . The alarm sounds . We hide in the safe room . Bardak . Of course , it is n't always so easy with Mordke , but then I think of all the old women who are hiding alone and I thank God . " <p> He ends his call and looks out to Mila , who , noticing him , ends hers and comes inside . He wants to ask whom she was talking to . He imagines it was Farah , her girlfriend , whom he met once at the encampment . He 'd been allowed through the security checkpoint to attend a session given by a professor at the university , a Tunisian dissident and political exile , a specialist in the liberation movements of the Global South . Solemnly and reverently , Farah had delivered the introduction . Throughout the talk , a fun-house-mirror version of his own understanding of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict , he had felt both Mila 's and Farah 's eyes on him , but he could not make himself nod his head or moan in assent and he knew he was failing their test , doing a poor job of disguising his true feelings , exposing himself as an impostor and interloper . <p> And now he must be doing it again , because Mila asks if something is wrong . <p> " Do you ever worry that A.I. will steal our jobs ? " <p> Cartoon by Elisabeth McNair <p> Link copied <p> " You have a weird look on your face . " <p> " I do ? " <p> " I would say go look in a mirror , but . " <p> Then she asks whom he was talking to and he taps a genealogy that means almost nothing to her . He could be speaking about characters from the Bible : Aaron . Shulamit . Zebulun . Mordecai . Remote beyond conception . He 's not sure he 's ever mentioned them to her . And now it feels impossible to speak about them without it being construed as part of a polemical narrative . He can not say , especially now , with his mother gone , and the others of her generation waning , that it pains him that the painful past of their family does n't pain her . That he does not believe he can evoke in her any of the sorrow he feels for the antecedent Mordke , her age when he was shot in the proverbial wood , the younger brother his grandfather mourned to the end of his days . Is it fair of him to expect it of her ? He feels pain because it was transmitted to him through the immanence of his grandfather , a person he knew and loved . But what he feels does n't possess sufficient charge to be transmitted further . <p> " I wanted to ask , " Mila says . <p> " Yeah ? " <p> " What do I tell people if they want to come ? " <p> He makes room for the full connotation of " people . " <p> " People are welcome . " <p> " O.K. And is there anything they should know ? " <p> " Sometimes people bring food . Round food . Bagels . Cookies . But they do n't have to . There will be plenty of food . " <p> " Why round ? " <p> " I do n't know . The circle of life . " <p> " Anything else ? " <p> " Give them the code to buzz up . There will be a sign downstairs with the apartment number . " <p> " That 's it ? " <p> " I think so . Though maybe mention to the people not to wear kaffiyehs . " <p> " Is that supposed to be funny ? " <p> " I do n't know , is it ? " <p> " Thanks very much for the information . " <p> " You 're very welcome . " <p> As the day wears on , the apartment fills up . Daniela comes from work and sits with Lily . There is a chill between her and Mila , a clash of personalities that predates the encampment , so they steer clear of each other . It has been five years since the divorce . But the clashes between Mila and Daniela would have happened , he believes , with or without the divorce . They are akin to the clashes he had with Daniela -- in which one person regards conflict as inevitable and cathartic and the other does not . In this way , Mila takes after him , restrained , deliberate , contemplative , but also clinically resolute . Life lesson : opposites might attract , but they do not endure . Because he and Mila are similar , they have been able to maintain a semblance of harmony . <p> It is always busiest on the first evening . The first and the second . After that , there is a merciful reprieve . When his father died , almost twenty years before , family friends from the earliest days of the immigration came to sit with his mother . To them , even now , he remains effectively a boy . A boy with a profession . A boy who furnished the grandchildren . Correspondingly , they persist for him as they appear in his mother 's plastic photo albums , in the first blush of their capitalism , posing beside enormous American cars . Now they dodder in , az och un vey -- in the badge of his mother 's Yiddish . Well , not all of them dodder . There is one who has become an avid cyclist , another who has pledged himself to pickleball . They are eager to expound on these things , which introduces some variety into the conversations . Their children are his age and are spoken of proudly . Some of those children have moved away and attained success in certain medical fields . Others have not moved away and attained success in certain medical fields . They have married well , raised children who are a credit to the nation . They sound boring and fortunate . What does he feel ? Bored and envious ? The envy is fleeting , futile . And , besides , there 's more to them than that . There 's more to everyone . But who has the time to delve ? He wishes them well . He wishes them all well , in these precedented times . <p> Some of his friends come . A number of them have co ? rdinated catering for the week . Platters arrive from a Jewish deli , drawn from the bereavement menu . There is a reversion to gender norms , and the women take charge of the food in the kitchen . Daniela and Eleanor . His cousin . Mila with them , as if in the fold , which almost brings him to tears . <p> Because it is summer , a week after the solstice , the sun does n't set until past nine . By eight , when the rabbi arrives to lead the prayers , the living room and kitchen are crammed with people . The food has been put out because it is past dinnertime for everyone . Stray disposable plates and cups dot the apartment . His cousin makes the rounds with a black garbage bag . A knot of the older people forms around the rabbi and they engage in a disquisition in Russian . What is it about ? He knows . The subject uppermost on everyone 's mind , for which they are seeking a Hasidic imprimatur . Not his mother 's death but Israel , Gaza , Hamas , Hezbollah , the Palestinians , the Arabs , the Muslims , the hypocritical leftists . All the proliferating enemies of Israel and the Jews . He is grateful that they are conducting this conversation in Russian , because Mila will not understand . He understands and remembers how it was when his father died , at the time of the Second Lebanon War . His uncle called him over to hear the rabbi 's prescription for the Arabs in Lebanon and wherever else they threatened Israel : " Make them disappear . " How ? With what magic trick ? He was disgusted then and remains disgusted , in line with his role in the family , leftist idiot and na ? ve fool . His family escaped a totalitarian regime that persecuted them and now complain about opportunistic and culturally incompatible immigrants who seek to transform their adoptive country into a version of their regressive , Jew-hating , theocratic homelands . In short , his family are essentially fascists , comfortable with totalitarianism if it suits them . Not just his family . He is convinced that this is true of most people . Democracy is a discipline , like diet and exercise , strenuous and irksome . Sooner take a pill or eat cake . <p> When Farah calls up , it is still the doldrum period before prayers start . He and the girls have been in the apartment for more than seven hours . Lily sits on a chair at the edge of the room , oblivious of everyone , singing to herself . He looks around the apartment and sees Mila in the kitchen listening politely to Tamara . He gestures with the portable phone to get her attention . <p> He watches Mila cross the room , open the front door , and let it close pneumatically behind her . He imagines her waiting in the hallway or by the elevator bank . He keeps his attention on the front door , anticipating . But , when it opens , it is n't Mila or Farah who enters but Claudia , the woman he is dating . She holds the door for Mila and Farah . Claudia , born and educated in Romania , with an Eastern European 's disdain for the left , her own family 's acrid history from the war -- a grandfather silent about his time in Odesa , relatives who pointed their guns in the wrong direction at Stalingrad , a great-uncle who once made a strange remark about Paul Celan -- and no compunctions about who is at fault in Gaza or anywhere else . She , unlike Daniela , is consummately laconic , by circumstance or upbringing , and can devastate with a gesture , a shift , a shrug . How someone like her stayed in a bad marriage for more than a decade confounds him , but maybe that is a labyrinth for everyone . <p> Farah comes toward him and extends a white poster-board box sealed with a gold sticker with the name of a bakery . He does n't recognize the name . <p> " I hope this is O.K. , " she says . <p> " I 'm sure it is . " <p> " I 'm very sorry for your loss , " she says . <p> " Thank you , " he says , though the tradition mitigates against mourners thanking visitors . <p> " Here , " Claudia says and takes the pastry box from him . On her shoulder are the straps of a canvas tote filled with groceries , greens on top . <p> He notices the room contort as if from a change in the magnetic field . His aunt looks directly at Farah , making no effort to be discreet . He 's certain Farah is aware of it . Mila is aware of it . Farah has n't worn a kaffiyeh , but she has two small round buttons pinned to the left side of her T-shirt . One is the Palestinian flag ; the other is the rainbow . He wonders what possessed her to wear them : provocativeness , obliviousness , or the snug tenet of living her truth . It is something that she and Mila can do with little consequence in this apartment , in this city , this country , also in Israel , and nowhere else in the Middle East , including Gaza and all of the Muslim world . Putatively irrelevant . <p> Even without the buttons , Farah would attract attention . She is an Arab in a roomful of Jews . Not just Jews but Zionists , with the claws and fangs . If there is a hostility toward her , there is also a fear . Fear of this slight , young woman who has elected to come in a show of sympathy and respect . She should be the one to feel intimidated , and probably does . How little it takes for people to feel " unsafe " -- that glib euphemistic construction . The opposite of safe is not unsafe , as the opposite of love is not unlove . What capacity is there for variation or dissent ? It 's just a choice . Everything is a choice while you live . The only immutable thing is death . They are now under the shadow of its wings . It will last for only a brief time . Can they make anything good of it ? <p> He has a feeling of admiration for Farah , who has evidently been brought up right . There is nothing inviting about the way his aunt looks at her , but Farah approaches , bends low , and offers her condolences . He ca n't quite hear from where he 's standing , but he assumes they are the same words she spoke to him , " I am very sorry for your loss . " Uncharacteristically for the times , a sincere and simple sentence in the active voice . His aunt behaves cordially , though later she will complain to him , " Mila absolutely had to bring this friend ? She looked at us like we were animals in a zoo . You know that Mila being a lesbian caused your mother a lot of pain . She hoped she would outgrow it . " <p> When it is finally time for prayers , Mila and Farah are across the room with Lily , who has played hostess and brought Farah refreshments . The rabbi checks his smartwatch and announces that they will now begin . Men who have n't covered their heads are given yarmulkes from the stash his mother kept at the house for holidays . Prayer books , some with English transliterations , some with Russian , are distributed to those who want them . There is only a small number of people in the room who know anything about Hebrew prayer . A few of his friends with some parochial schooling . Daniela and her parents , who , because of the peculiarities of the South African apartheid system , all received traditional Jewish educations . And Mila , who learned to sound out Hebrew words for her bat mitzvah . The others , the Soviet Jews who have lived for decades in a land of religious liberty , know to stand more or less obediently , sometimes turning a page . <p> The rabbi faces east , toward Jerusalem , and begins . The first few words are intelligible before they dissolve into sonorous murmuring . <p> He meets Mila 's eyes and motions her over . She comes , leaving Lily tracing with her finger a tattoo on Farah 's arm . From a distance -- vines , tributaries , flowers ? <p> " You do n't have to stay for this part , " he says . <p> " Do you want us to leave ? " she asks . <p> " That 's not what I mean . " <p> " Where would we even go ? " <p> " You could take Lily out . " <p> " Where ? " <p> " Anywhere . Down by the fitness center and pool . Or out back by the tennis courts . Just let her run around . " <p> " All right . " <p> " The prayers will be done in about an hour . " <p> " O.K. " <p> They leave , the age difference between them suddenly compressed . The older girls still need to apply fashions and postures in order not to be mistaken for children . To be regarded seriously , even as they retain a footbridge to childhood . He treasures this about his daughters , how effortlessly they reinhabit the lyrics of pop songs , a nonsense dialect from the internet , synchronized clapping games : happy llama , sad llama / mentally disturbed llama / super llama , drama llama / big fat mama llama . <p> The rabbi leads the group through the first portion of prayers . " Leads " is the right word . Maybe because he 's been thinking about children , this is what he imagines : the rabbi walks ahead ; they shuffle behind . If he stops , they stand dazed , then disperse . The purpose of the prayers is for him and his aunt to recite the Kaddish , to sanctify God 's name in their time of grief . They are supposed to do this three times a day for the duration of the week , in the morning , the afternoon , and the evening . Practical Talmudists parsed the law and amalgamated the afternoon and the evening . Between the afternoon and evening prayers , there is a short and symbolic break . The rabbi fills it with scriptural exegesis in a mixture of Russian , Hebrew , and English . The Creator of the Universe . The Holy One Blessed Be He . <p> He wanders to the kitchen to get himself some water . There is a glass door that leads to another small balcony . It faces the rear of the building . Through the glass , he sees Lily running and cartwheeling on the lawn by the tennis courts . She turns back toward Mila and Farah , who walk casually behind . Claudia comes to check on him and tracks his gaze . <p> " Are you all right ? " <p> " Yeah , " he replies , but thinks , as he increasingly does , How did this happen ? How did we get from there to here ? From the drowsy meagre shtetl . To the great Soviet fraud . To the gratification-industrial complex . You were supposed to build a structure -- a family , a country -- that could withstand destruction . How is that working out ? Self-assess . <p> He returns and the rabbi commences the evening prayers . Who is left ? His cousin and her teen-age son . His uncle . His aunt . Daniela and her parents . Tamara . Claudia . Two elderly Russian Jews from the building . An elderly Jew , not Russian , who is the treasurer of the condominium board . Two of his childhood friends . And , with him , they have exactly the requisite ten Jewish men to conduct the service . As they conclude with the Kaddish , dusk cedes to night and the sky outside goes dark . It is late , nearing ten . People say their goodbyes , the men promising to return for morning prayers at seven . His aunt is exhausted , unsteady on her feet , her eyes red . His uncle offers her his arm , though he is also spent . His cousin insists on driving them home in her car . The rabbi says he will come in the morning with two grandsons to insure that they have enough people . <p> Mila , Farah , and Lily have yet to return . Daniela is supposed to take Lily home with her so that Lily can attend school the next day , the last day before the summer break . He used to have the ability to see Mila 's location on his phone , but she disabled it not long after she started at the university . Allowing him to see her location had been a condition of his paying her cellphone bill , but even after she disabled it he kept paying . This was a distillation of his parenting . More permissive than punitive . He could n't be another way . When he tried , it was unconvincing . His daughters saw it as a pretense and laughed . <p> " Call her , " Daniela says , although she has a phone . <p> He calls and Mila picks up . He has her on speaker . <p> " Sorry , we are literally one minute away , " she says . In the background , Lily clamors for the phone . <p> " Did you think they kidnapped me ? " she asks . <p> " No , " he says . <p> " They said you probably thought they kidnapped me . " <p> " No . But it 's dark , and it 's late , and everyone is leaving . " <p> " Sorry , " Mila says . " We 'll be right there . " <p> They wait in a fractious mood . <p> " What kind of joke is that ? " Daniela says . <p> Claudia announces that she will go . When she opens the door , Lily is at the threshold with an oversized cup , her lips tinted blue . <p> " On your mark , get set , go find an employee to open the case for you ! " <p> Cartoon by Jeremy Nguyen <p> Link copied <p> " Text , " Daniela says . <p> " Leave her be , Daniela , " Eleanor says . <p> " Fine , " Daniela says . " Lily , do you have everything ? " <p> " Yeah , " Lily says . <p> " All right . Say goodbye to everyone . You 'll see them after school tomorrow . " <p> " Not Mila and Farah . " <p> " Mila , you 're not coming back tomorrow ? " he asks . <p> " No . " <p> " Why ? " <p> " I have to be at the encampment . " <p> She says this with the tentativeness , abandon , and conviction of drawing a line that should not be crossed . He feels that if she crosses it , if he allows her to cross it , something irreparable will happen . He has always been inclined to identify as a child and not as a parent . He has borne the lessons of being his parents ' child and tried to apply them to his children . He has resisted doing the thing his mother never resisted doing -- asking his child to do something for his sake , against her will . <p> " Mila , " he says . " I do n't want you to go . " <p> " The judge ruled that the encampment has to be taken down tomorrow , " she says . <p> " Farah can pack up your tent . " <p> " That 's not the point . " <p> " Farah , " he says , " what would you do if your grandmother died and your father asked you to stay with him instead of going with people who despised everything she stood for ? " <p> " What people are you talking about ? " Mila says . <p> " I went to the encampment . I attended the lecture . I read the signs . I know what people I 'm talking about . " <p> " You were there for two hours and you talked to nobody . " <p> " I guess it depends , " Farah says . <p> " On what ? " <p> " On if my family was supporting a genocide . " <p> " You 're Palestinian ? " <p> " Palestinian Egyptian . " <p> " O.K. If I were Palestinian Egyptian , maybe I would feel the same as you . Although there are exceptions who also criticize Hamas and spare a thought for the hostages . But it 's my daughter who should know better . She exists only because her great-grandfather put his family on the last train into Russia before the Germans arrived . My father , Mila 's grandfather , after whom she is named , was five years old at the time . Do you know what the survival rate was for five-year-old Jewish boys in Latvia ? " <p> " No , " Farah says . " I imagine it was low . " <p> " It was basically zero . So here is the truth : the Jews of Europe would have traded places with the Palestinians of Gaza in a heartbeat and called it salvation . " <p> " Wow , " Mila exclaims . " That 's fucking gross . " <p> " Is it ? What part ? " <p> " The part where you 're O.K. with the killing , you 're just upset with the terminology . " <p> " There 's a lot of killing in the world . " <p> " This is being done by us . " <p> " Who is us ? Are you part of us ? " <p> " If that 's how you define us , then , no , I 'm not . " <p> " Well , they 'll kill you anyway , " he says . <p> When he is left alone , he goes around the apartment turning off the lights . Often the first light switch he tries is wrong . He 's never stayed at his mother 's apartment by himself . Sleeping in her bed is out of the question . In the guest bedroom is the single bed made of sturdy blond wood which his parents bought for him when he was a child and which his mother has kept all these years . When he started having sexual desire , he used to grind into the mattress . " What have you been watching on TV ? " his mother asked when she surprised him one time . Now he is sleeping on it , a grown man , his parents gone , fearing that his daughter is lost to him for good . He regrets his outburst , not because what he said was technically wrong but because he gained so little from saying it . Did he think it would sway his daughter ? There 's a reason that he has tried not to act like his parents . That approach only ever drove him away . Though he always came back . He clings to this even as the gulf between him and his daughter feels so much wider than anything between him and his parents . <p> What does it mean to Mila ? From the river to the sea , Palestine will be free . There is only one solution , intifada , revolution . We do n't want two states , we want all of ' 48 . <p> He thinks about Shulamit and Mordke . He thinks about the Shulamits and Mordkes of Gaza . An old woman and an old man , innocent as lambs , clambering over rubble with their piteous backpacks and bundles . What will happen to them from the river to the sea in the intifada revolution ? What will happen that has not already happened ? <p> He is angry and confused . He wants his daughter back . He wants normal life back . He is a real-estate lawyer . Is n't it a dispute over land ? Send in the real-estate lawyers ! Titles , liens , deeds , encroachments , easements -- they can settle it ! <p> No justice , no peace ? False . Peace is justice . Peace is the crown of the law . Why is the word nowhere to be found at the encampments and the rallies or in the news reports and the op-eds and the open letters ? Without it , they are all doomed . <p> He Who makes peace in His heightsMay He make peaceUpon us and upon all IsraelAnd now say : Amen . ?
