<p> This order is meant to reverse Biden administration border policies by ending what Trump has described as " catch and release . " The order also restarts the " Remain in Mexico " policy Trump implemented in his first term and directs further construction of a wall on the southern border . <p> The order also immediately ended the use of the CBP One app 's immigration functions . The phone app was expanded by the Biden administration to allow more than 730,000 noncitizens to fly into the country from Cuba , Haiti , Nicaragua , and Venezuela , as well as apply for appointments at ports of entry . <p> It also provides for the collection of DNA from illegal immigrants in custody , as well as to determine if migrants are related and family members , and to prosecute adults who are not related to the children they claim to be related to . <p> An executive order empowering agencies to remove illegal immigrants . Read the order here . <p> This order revokes Biden administration orders on handling migrants who cross the southern border and might claim asylum . It instead orders agencies to execute laws allowing for the removal of inadmissible migrants . <p> A Trump official described it as equipping agents of Immigration and Customs Enforcement and Customs and Border Protection with the authorities needed to deport illegal immigrants . <p> It also establishes federal Homeland Security Task Forces to cooperate with state and local law enforcement in the removal of gangs and criminals from the United States . <p> This action will allow the Department of Defense to deploy active-duty and National Guard military to the southern border , erect barriers , and work on ways to take down enemy drones . <p> An executive order " clarifying the military 's role in protecting the territorial integrity of the United States . " Read it here . <p> This order assigns the military the mission of sealing the border and institutes campaign planning requirements . <p> A memo handing hundreds of miles along the border to the Department of Defense . Read it here . <p> This memo directs the Department of the Interior to start transferring the Roosevelt Reservation , a 60-foot-wide tract that runs through California , Arizona , and New Mexico , to the Pentagon , with a test site established to the east of Fort Huachuca , effectively turning it into one long military base . <p> This order declares an emergency under national security law to designate cartels as terrorist groups . It also does the same for the gangs Tren de Aragua and Mara Salvatrucha , or MS-13 . It will allow Trump to invoke the Alien Enemies Act against cartels and gangs . <p> This order restores the use of the death penalty . It had been paused under Biden . It directs the attorney general to pursue capital punishment for the murder of law enforcement officers and capital crimes committed by illegal immigrants . <p> This order directs all federal agencies and departments to identify taxpayer-funded benefits that illegal immigrants benefit from and " take corrective action , " as well as to prevent any federal support for sanctuary policies in individual states . <p> It also mandates improvements in eligibility verification to block illegal immigrants from receiving federal benefits . <p> Lastly , it gives 30 days to the OMB director and the DOGE director to identify federal funding for illegal immigrants and provide recommendations for cutting it . <p> This memo directs agency heads to ensure that illegal immigrants do not receive Social Security benefits . It directs the attorney general and the commissioner of Social Security to detail and credential special assistant U.S. attorneys to expand the fraud prosecution program . <p> An executive order renaming the Anahuac National Wildlife Refuge to honor Jocelyn Nungaray . Read it here . <p> This order renames a wildlife sanctuary near Houston after the 12-year-old girl whose suspected killers were illegal immigrants . <p> A proclamation invoking the Alien Enemies Act against Tren de Aragua . Read it here . <p> This proclamation declares that the Venezuelan gang Tren de Aragua , now a U.S.-designated foreign terrorist organization that was the target of extensive apartment raids in Colorado by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement in early February , is invading the U.S. and that gang members may be apprehended and deported under the Alien Enemies Act . <p> This order asserts that independent agencies , such as the Federal Reserve , Securities and Exchange Commission , Federal Trade Commission , Commodity Futures Trading Commission , and more , are subject to presidential supervision and control . <p> The order states that the agencies must submit any regulations for review by the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs , which is located within the White House Office of Management and Budget . <p> The agencies are also supposed to consult with the White House on their strategic plans . To that end , the agencies are supposed to create new White House liaisons . <p> The order only applies to the Federal Reserve 's regulatory functions . Its conduct of monetary policy is exempted . <p> This memo freezes hiring for federal positions . It does not apply to military , immigration enforcement , or public safety and allows for exemptions determined by the director of the Office of Management and Budget . <p> It also requires a report within 90 days from the OMB on reducing the workforce and bans the use of contractors to circumvent the freeze . <p> On April 17 , Trump issued a memo extending the freeze through July 15 . <p> An executive order giving Trump more power over career federal workers , previously known as " Schedule F. " Read it here . <p> This order reinstates an order issued in the last days of the previous Trump administration and was subsequently undone by Biden . It creates a new class of career federal workers who could be removed based on policy considerations . Previously , they would have been labeled " Schedule F " employees . This order would categorize them as " policy/career " employees . <p> The order is meant to make government employees more responsive to the president and to prevent what Trump has termed " the deep state " from obstructing his agenda . Critics have argued it would undermine the quality of the bureaucracy . <p> This memo directs agencies to take actions that would lower the cost of housing and expand housing supply , cut " counterproductive " requirements that raise the costs of home appliances , slash " unnecessary " administrative expenses that raise healthcare costs , and create employment opportunities for American workers , among other broad directives . <p> This day-one memo establishes Trump 's trade policy but stops short of starting the process of implementing new tariffs , as he has promised . Instead , it directs officials to pursue an " America First " trade policy . <p> It also calls for a review of certain critical and controversial trade policies , including the China trade deal Trump signed in his first term and the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement he negotiated . <p> It also calls for a review of the " de minimis " rule that allows for imports of less than $800 to be duty-free . The order notes that the exception could be used to bring in counterfeits or drugs . <p> The order also asks the treasury secretary and other members of the administration to consider the feasibility of the External Revenue Service , the agency Trump has proposed to collect tariff revenues . Today , such revenues are collected by Customs and Border Protection . <p> These orders placed tariffs on major trading partners , saying they were necessary to stop the flow of drugs and , in the cases of Mexico and Canada , illegal immigration . Imports from Mexico faced 25% tariffs . Energy imports from Canada faced 10% tariffs , and all other imports faced 25% tariffs . Imports from China were hit with an additional 10% tariff . In all cases , the orders also removed " de minimis " exemptions from tariffs , which allows shipments of less than $800 to enter duty-free and is important to many e-tailers . <p> The tariffs on Mexico and Canada were delayed for a month by subsequent executive orders after talks with those countries . Then , when they went into effect in March , imports covered by the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement were exempted . <p> For China , though , a subsequent order raised the new tariff to 20% . Later , after retaliation from China , the rate was increased to 145% . The removal of the " de minimis " exemptions was also later delayed , until a new order stated the commerce secretary had certified that systems are in place to impose duties on imports that would have qualified as of May 2 . <p> Trump imposed the tariffs using the authority granted by the International Emergency Economic Powers Act , which gives the president broad authority to regulate international trade on national security grounds . The law has often been used to impose sanctions , but not for tariffs . <p> To impose measures under IEEPA , the president has to declare a national emergency . That emergency declaration is susceptible to a vote from Congress . <p> This order gives the Secretary of Commerce 270 days to complete an investigation into the copper market and to determine whether tariffs are warranted under Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act . <p> A proclamation imposing tariffs on autos and auto parts . Read it here . <p> This order imposes 25% tariffs on imports of automobiles and auto parts under section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 . <p> An order imposing secondary tariffs on importers of Venezuelan oil . Read it here . <p> This order imposes 25% tariffs on imports from countries that import oil from Venezuela , similar to the " secondary tariffs " placed on Russian oil . <p> The tariffs , imposed under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act , apply for one year after a country imports Venezuelan oil unless the secretary of commerce determines they should be lifted earlier . <p> This order imposed minimum 10% tariffs on all trading partners ( setting aside China , Canada , and Mexico ) and higher rates on trading partners with larger trade surpluses with the U.S. Trump touted the tariffs as " reciprocal , " meaning that they were equivalent to trade barriers imposed by trade partners , but in fact they were not . Instead , they were based on trade balances , not trade barriers . The higher tariffs were later paused for 90 days . <p> The tariffs included exemptions for certain items , including ones that are subject to tariffs through other Trump actions . <p> The order also removes " de minimis " exemptions from tariffs , which allow shipments of less than $800 to enter duty-free , and is important to many e-tailers , starting when the commerce secretary certifies that the systems are in place to collect payments on such imports . <p> One order directs the secretary of commerce to commence an investigation , under section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act , into tariffs on lumber . The report is due in 270 days . <p> The other order directs agencies to remove rules and red tape that slow logging in the U.S. <p> Within 30 days , the secretaries of interior and agriculture , through the director of the Bureau of Land Management and the chief of the United States Forest Service , are supposed to propose guidance for facilitating lumber production . <p> Within 60 days , the secretaries of interior and commerce , through the director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service and the assistant administrator for Fisheries , respectively , are directed to provide a strategy for accelerating approvals of forestry projects . <p> Within 90 days , the secretaries of interior and agriculture are supposed to set a plan for a target for the annual amount of timber per year to be offered for sale over the next four years from land controlled by the Bureau of Land Management and USFS . <p> Within 180 days , the secretaries of interior and agriculture are supposed to approve " categorical exclusions " to allow producers to skip reviews under the National Environmental Policy Act , the bedrock environmental law that can significantly slow down permitting . Within 280 days , the interior secretary is supposed to create a new categorical exclusion for timber thinning . <p> The order directs all agencies to find ways to suspend or undo any regulations that slow logging . It also directs the Endangered Species Committee to use any available measures to remove barriers to logging . <p> An order starting a tariff investigation for critical minerals . Read it here . <p> This order directs a Section 232 investigation into tariffs on imports of critical minerals and rare earth elements . <p> A memo responding to digital services taxes on U.S. companies . Read it here . <p> This memo tells officials to impose tariffs and other measures on countries that impose digital services taxes on U.S. tech companies . <p> It orders the U.S. Trade Representative to revive exploration of Section 301 tariffs against France , Austria , Italy , Spain , Turkey , and the United Kingdom for their digital services taxes . Trump had initiated the process for such tariffs in his first term . <p> It tells officials to include DSTs in the report required by the " America First " trade policy executive order . They 're also supposed to consider whether other countries ' regulation of tech companies infringes free speech . <p> This memo , titled " America First Investment Policy , " is meant to limit China and its allies from gaining influence over critical domestic infrastructure and technology via investment , and also to facilitate investment by U.S. allies . <p> The memo indicates that the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States , or CFIUS , which reviews foreign investments for national security concerns , will refocus on preventing China from investing in technology , critical infrastructure , healthcare , agriculture , energy , raw materials , or other strategic sectors . <p> It also says that the U.S. will act to prevent U.S. investment in China 's military-industrial complex and that the government will consider new curbs on investment in China in sectors like semiconductors , artificial intelligence , quantum , biotechnology , hypersonics , aerospace , advanced manufacturing , and directed energy . The order also calls for expediting environmental reviews for any investment over $1 billion in the U.S. and the consideration of whether to suspend or terminate the 1984 United States-The People 's Republic of China Income Tax Convention . <p> This order directs the secretaries of the treasury and commerce to present a plan within 90 days for establishing a sovereign wealth fund . <p> A sovereign wealth fund is a state-owned and state-directed fund that makes investments on behalf of a government . SWFs are often employed in countries that have significant revenues from natural resources , such as Norway , Kuwait , and Qatar . <p> An order accelerating government regulatory processes for investments over a billion dollars . Read it here . <p> This order , " Establishing the United States Investment Accelerator , " establishes an office in the Department of Commerce called the United States Investment Accelerator . The office is meant to help investors navigate government processes relating to regulations , permitting , and siting . <p> An executive order establishing the Department of Government Efficiency . Read it here . <p> This order relates to the DOGE , touted by Trump and Elon Musk . <p> The DOGE will be extremely limited in terms of its official government footprint , according to the order . Basically , it will rename the United States Digital Service , a small organization founded by the Obama administration to aid agencies with tech services , to be the United States DOGE Service ( also USDS ) . <p> It also creates a temporary organization within the USDS to carry out the DOGE agenda in the next 18 months , permitting it to establish small teams in each agency . <p> Musk and other Trump allies associated with DOGE have always said that DOGE will primarily be outside the government and that its actual government authority will be limited . <p> An order for federal workforce cuts that gives DOGE hiring responsibility . Read it here . <p> This order directs the OMB director to submit a plan for reducing the federal workforce , including by ensuring that agencies hire no more than one worker for every four workers that depart ( although law enforcement and immigration officials are exempted ) . It orders agency heads to prepare to " initiate large-scale reductions in force . " <p> It also requires agency heads to work with DOGE in making any new hires . <p> The order directs the Office of Personnel Management to initiate a rulemaking to overhaul the process by which it determines whether prospective federal hires are suitable to include additional criteria , such as whether the candidates have been late in paying taxes . <p> Lastly , it gives all agencies 30 days to prepare a report identifying which parts of the agency might be eliminated or consolidated under existing statutes . <p> The DOGE is supposed to report on the implementation of the order in 240 days . <p> This memo withdraws the U.S. from the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development 's global tax deal , which was pursued by Biden Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen to impose a global minimum tax of 15% on businesses . Republicans have long opposed the effort . <p> This memo requires performance plans for Career Senior Executive Service officials , who are high-level government administrators who manage major programs within agencies and often interact with agency officials appointed by presidents and career employees . <p> An executive order establishing the Department of Government Efficiency , or DOGE . Read it here . <p> This order relates to the DOGE , touted by Trump and Elon Musk . <p> The DOGE will be extremely limited in terms of its government footprint , according to the order . Basically , it will rename the U.S. Digital Service , or the USDS , a small organization founded by the Obama administration to aid agencies with tech services , to the U.S. DOGE Service ( also USDS ) . <p> It also creates a temporary organization within the USDS to carry out the DOGE agenda in the next 18 months , permitting it to establish small teams in each agency . <p> Musk and other Trump allies associated with DOGE have said the DOGE primarily will be outside the government and that its actual government authority will be limited . <p> This memo instructs agency heads , once they have completed the DOGE review of regulations , to begin repealing rules that are deemed unlawful , in light of recent decisions from the Republican-led Supreme Court . <p> This order directs agency heads to work with DOGE to build a system for recording all payments made through contracts , along with the justification for the payments and the identification of the agency worker who signed off on them . The payment info is supposed to be made public to the extent possible . All existing contracts are supposed to be reviewed . <p> It also orders agencies to work with DOGE to build systems for tracking travel spending . <p> It freezes credit card spending by agency employees for 30 days . <p> Lastly , it gives agencies 60 days to inform the OMB of any properties they own that are no longer needed . <p> This short proclamation directs agency heads to make public the details of every terminated program or canceled contract . <p> An executive order for an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan . Read the order here . <p> This order requires the assistant to the president for science and technology ; the special adviser for AI and crypto , tech investor David Sacks ; and the assistant to the president for national security affairs to work with agency heads to develop a plan to " sustain and enhance America 's global AI dominance in order to promote human flourishing , economic competitiveness , and national security . " The report is due within 180 days . <p> The order also tells agencies to carry out the reversal of Biden 's order on AI , which was revoked by a different Trump order . <p> An order rechartering the President 's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology . Read the order here . <p> This order gives a new charter to the President 's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology , a group of tech and science experts that advises the president and has served all presidents since George W. Bush . Trump 's order adds the Sacks to the council . It also warns that " across science , medicine , and technology , ideological dogmas have surfaced that elevate group identity above individual achievement , enforce conformity at the expense of innovative ideas , and inject politics into the heart of the scientific method . " <p> An order boosting cryptocurrencies and banning a Central Bank Digital Currency . Read the order here . <p> This order repeals an order signed by Biden directing more research into a Central Bank Digital Currency . Free-market advocates have warned that a CBDC could allow the government far-reaching ability to engage in financial surveillance . <p> The order also establishes a Working Group on Digital Asset Markets , to be headed by Sacks . The group has 180 days to make recommendations about the crypto regulatory framework , including for stablecoins , which are digital currencies that tie their value to an underlying asset , such as the dollar . The group is also supposed to explore the idea of a strategic bitcoin reserve . <p> Lastly , the order prohibits the creation of a CBDC . <p> An order creating a Strategic Bitcoin Reserve and a United States Digital Asset Stockpile . Read it here . <p> This order directs the treasury secretary to create a strategic reserve of bitcoin , using bitcoin already in the federal government 's custody , gained through criminal or civil asset forfeitures . <p> It also directs the Treasury Department to open an office to create a stockpile with other digital assets already held by the government . <p> The treasury and commerce secretaries are also supposed to come up with strategies for gaining more bitcoin in a budget-neutral way . <p> An executive order phasing out the use of paper checks by the Treasury . Read it here . <p> This order directs the treasury secretary to stop making payments via paper checks by Sept. 30 of this year . Instead , agencies are supposed to shift to electronic funds transfers . The order includes exceptions for payees who do n't have access to banking services or online accounts and for national security purposes . <p> An executive order to ensure federal payments go to intended recipients . Read it here . <p> This order , " Protecting America 's Bank Account Against Fraud , Waste , and Abuse , " directs the Treasury to work with agency heads to ensure that all payments are verified before they are sent out . The order includes specific directions for what should be included in the verification , such as recipients ' Social Security numbers . <p> This order directs the attorney general and the Federal Trade Commission to crack down on abuses in the secondary market for live event tickets , including by stepped-up enforcement of the Better Online Ticket Sales Act . The FTC is supposed to ensure price transparency at all stages of the ticket sales process , including via new regulations if necessary . <p> The secretary of the treasury , attorney general , and chairman of the FTC have 180 days from the issuance of the order on March 31 to prepare a report on actions they 've taken and to suggest new laws or regulations to protect consumers . <p> A memo requiring a new review of the sale of US Steel to a Japanese company . Read it here . <p> This memo directs the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States , which reviews foreign investments in the U.S. for national security concerns , to conduct a fresh review of the proposed sale of US Steel to Nippon Steel , a Japanese company . Biden previously blocked the sale . <p> This order directs the heads of federal agencies to identify any regulations that create monopolies or otherwise harm economic competition . Agencies are supposed to ask the public for comments about such rules and then report back to the chairman of the Federal Trade Commission and the attorney general in 90 days . <p> An order to boost shipbuilding and the maritime industry . Read it here . <p> This major order , " Restoring America 's Maritime Dominance , " includes a range of provisions meant to ramp up domestic shipbuilding capabilities and help the maritime sector . <p> It orders relevant agency heads to develop a Maritime Action Plan to " revitalize and rebuild domestic maritime industries and workforce , " due 210 days from the date of the order , April 9 . <p> Within 180 days , the secretary of defense is supposed to present options to include in the plan that include utilizing the Defense Production Act and private capital to build up the maritime industrial base . <p> It also orders the U.S. Trade Representative to take steps to counter Chinese efforts to dominate shipbuilding , including by tariffs on cranes and cargo handling equipment , if necessary . <p> The order requires the Department of Homeland Security to collect harbor maintenance fees from shippers who route cargoes through Canadian or Mexican ports in order to evade the fees . <p> The order directs officials to draw up legislative plans for a " Maritime Security Trust Fund " to build up shipbuilding capabilities , as well as a shipbuilding incentive program . It also calls for a plan for " Maritime Prosperity Zones , " similar to the Opportunity Zones created by the 2017 Trump tax cuts that provide tax incentives for investment in disadvantaged areas . <p> The order directs officials to draw up reports , within 90 days , on federal programs that could be used to boost the maritime industry and expand mariner training and education . <p> It directs the secretary of transportation to develop plans to modernize the United States Merchant Marine Academy . It orders agency and DOGE officials to review the federal procurement process for ships . <p> The order requires the secretaries of defense and transportation to develop a legislative proposal to increase the number of U.S.-flagged ships that trade internationally . <p> A proclamation opening up commercial fishing in the Pacific Remote Islands Marine National Monument . Read it here . <p> This order allows commercial fishing in the Pacific Remote Islands Marine National Monument , home to many kinds of threatened , endangered and depleted marine species . <p> The monument was established by former President George W. Bush in 2009 and expanded by former President Barack Obama to nearly 500,000 square miles . <p> The proclamation directs the secretary of commerce , through the administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration , to publish new rules to undo any regulations that burden fishing in the monument . <p> This is a far-reaching executive order billed as rooting out diversity , equity , and inclusion initiatives undertaken by the Biden administration . Trump officials framed it as a move to restore equal treatment and uphold the vision of civil rights leaders by focusing on character rather than race , sex , or other identity-based characteristics . It creates a process to " end federal implementation of unlawful and radical DEI ideology . " <p> It also reverses 78 orders and memos promulgated by Biden . Many of the orders had to do with DEI and related topics , such as LGBT issues and " environmental justice . " <p> Others , though , had little to do with DEI . For example , the Trump order reverses the Biden administration order on artificial intelligence , which many in Silicon Valley had said was too onerous . It also undoes the ethics rules imposed by Biden on the executive branch . <p> In short , the order is a massive change in administrative policy on a host of topics . <p> An order revoking an additional 18 orders issued by Biden . Read it here . <p> This order follows up on the previous order to revoke an additional 18 orders by Biden . Among others , it undoes a Biden action raising minimum wages for federal workers . It also cancels a February 2021 Biden order on " Advancing the Human Rights of Lesbian , Gay , Bisexual , Transgender , Queer , and Intersex Persons Around the World . " <p> This order is meant to terminate all DEI programs and environmental justice programs . Any positions associated with those programs are also meant to be eliminated where possible or redirected to non-DEI purposes . <p> This order requires a new federal hiring plan that prevents hiring based on " race , sex , or religion , and prevent the hiring of individuals who are unwilling to defend the Constitution or to faithfully serve the Executive Branch . " <p> An executive order renaming the Gulf of Mexico , Denali , and other important sites . Read it here . <p> This order renames Denali , the tallest mountain in North America , as Mount McKinley . It had been named Mount McKinley from 1917 until 2015 , when the Interior Department changed it in accordance with Alaska natives ' wishes . <p> The order also renames the Gulf of Mexico the " Gulf of America . " <p> It sets up a process to review appointments to the U.S. Board on Geographic Names . <p> This order defines " sex " in federal policy as based on biology , not gender identity , a reversal of Biden administration policies . <p> It defines " female " as " a person belonging , at conception , to the sex that produces the large reproductive cell . " It defines " male " as " a person belonging , at conception , to the sex that produces the small reproductive cell . " <p> All agencies are supposed to use these definitions in interpreting laws and in documents and must get rid of all language pertaining to gender identity . <p> The order also provides that passports and government personnel documents will only allow for the options of two sexes : male or female . <p> It also calls on the attorney general to reverse the Biden administration 's interpretation of the 2020 Supreme Court ruling in Bostock v. Clayton County , which found gender identity is a protected category under employment discrimination law . The Biden administration sought to apply that ruling to other areas of law , such as education . <p> The order also directs federal agencies to ensure that biological males are not included in women 's spaces , such as in prisons or in public housing . <p> An order to keep biological males out of women 's sports . Read it here . <p> This order is aimed at preventing transgender-identified biological males , as defined in the previous order , from competing in women 's sports . <p> For schools , the attorney general should prioritize Title IX enforcement against educational institutions that allow biological males to compete against women . It also directs all agencies to rescind funding from schools that are out of compliance . <p> For athletic organizations , the order directs the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy to convene a meeting of sports bodies within 60 days to develop standards for limiting participation in women 's sports . The secretary of state is also directed to promote biological sex as the standard for inclusion in women 's sports in international competitions . The secretary of state is specifically ordered to press the International Olympic Committee to amend its standards so that " eligibility for participation in women 's sporting events is determined according to sex and not gender identity or testosterone reduction . " <p> A memorandum ending DEI at the Federal Aviation Administration . Read it here . <p> This memo orders the FAA to end all DEI programs and hiring practices and to " return to non-discriminatory , merit-based hiring . " <p> This memo , issued in the wake of the plane crash at Reagan National Airport in Washington , D.C. , directs the Department of Transportation and the FAA to review all hiring decisions and changes to safety protocols made during the Biden administration . <p> An executive order targeting DEI in contracting , the private sector , and higher education . Read it here . <p> This far-reaching order extends the anti-DEI effort beyond the federal government to contractors and private entities . <p> It revokes an executive order signed by former President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1965 that mandated affirmative action in federal contracting , which Obama amended in 2014 to include gender identity . <p> The order instead requires every entity that gets a federal contract or grant to certify that it does not engage in DEI . <p> It further tasks the heads of agencies to oppose DEI in the private sector , where applicable . Each agency is tasked with coming up with a list of up to nine large corporations , nonprofit organizations , or universities under their jurisdiction that engage in DEI and might be targets for regulation or litigation . Lastly , the AG and Secretary of Education are supposed to come up with guidance to universities and colleges that get federal funding for compliance with the Supreme Court 's 2023 ruling in Students for Fair Admissions v. Harvard , which banned race-based affirmative action programs . <p> This memo is meant to prevent agency heads from implementing collective bargaining agreements reached with federal workers in the days before Trump took office , saying that some of the agreements extended " wasteful " practices , such as working from home . It 's not clear that the administration can undo such agreements , though . <p> This order , not yet signed , will roll back a rule adopted by former President Bill Clinton that mandated the federal government and private sector groups receiving federal funding to provide language assistance to non-English speakers . <p> White House officials said the order will not specifically block the federal government and private sector groups from continuing to provide non-English language assistance and is meant to promote unity and help facilitate immigrant integration into U.S. society . <p> This order , " Restoring Truth and Sanity to American History , " instructs Vance , as a member of the Smithsonian Board of Regents , to remove " improper ideology " from the Smithsonian Institution , which controls many museums and sites in Washington . Specifically , Vance is ordered to ensure that none of the museums or the National Zoo feature exhibits that divide Americans by race , and that the American Women 's History Museum does not present any men as women . <p> The order also directs the secretary of the interior to review monuments for ideology . <p> This order gives the secretaries of education , defense , and health and human services 90 days to present an " Ending Indoctrination Strategy " for counteracting " Discriminatory equity ideology " and " gender ideology " in schools , both of which terms are defined in the order . The strategy is supposed to include a plan for denying funding to schools that engage in indoctrination , and for prosecuting teachers and school officials who aid students in undergoing gender transitions without proper licensing . The order also revives the 1776 Commission begun in Trump 's first term . <p> This order instructs agency heads to produce in 60 days a report on complaints related to post-Oct. 7 instances of campus antisemitism . <p> The secretaries of state , education , and homeland security are also supposed to provide guidance for colleges and universities about how to report antisemitism by aliens that could be grounds for investigation or deportation . <p> This order gives the secretary of education 90 days to devise a plan for ending " coercive " COVID-19 vaccine mandates at schools and universities . The plan should include a list of funds that could be withheld from educational entities that maintain such mandates . <p> An order limiting student loan forgiveness for some public service workers . Read it here . <p> This order directs the education secretary to revise the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program to exclude some beneficiaries . The PSLF offers loan forgiveness after 10 years to people who work in public service-related occupations , such as government , firefighting , and nursing . Under the order , certain organizations would be excluded from the definition of public service , including ones that flout immigration laws , support terrorism , or facilitate transgender procedures for minors . <p> This order is aimed at fulfilling the longtime Republican goal of shuttering the Department of Education . The president can not close the agency unilaterally , as it is authorized by Congress . Instead , the order instructs the secretary of education " to the maximum extent appropriate and permitted by law , take all necessary steps to facilitate the closure of the Department of Education and return authority over education to the States and local communities while ensuring the effective and uninterrupted delivery of services , programs , and benefits on which Americans rely . " <p> It also tells the secretary to make sure funds are not used to advance DEI or gender ideology . <p> An order ending the " weaponization " of the federal government . Read it here . <p> This order finds that the Biden administration used federal agencies and the intelligence community to punish political opponents . <p> It requires a report from the attorney general on any abuse of government power in the past four years . It also mandates a similar report from the director of national intelligence on the intelligence community . <p> This order finds that the government infringed speech rights under the guise of combating " misinformation , " " disinformation , " and " malinformation . " It 's a response , in particular , to the content moderation practices of Big Tech companies in recent years , as platforms have limited controversial content related to the pandemic , race , gender , and more . <p> The order mandates a report from the attorney general on any censorship done by the government in the past four years . <p> This order suspends the security clearances of dozens of former intelligence community officials who wrote an infamous letter about Hunter Biden ahead of the 2020 election . Among the letter 's signatories were three former CIA directors , including John Brennan , as well as former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper . <p> Trump granted a pardon to Devon Archer , who accused Hunter Biden of improperly leveraging his relationship with his father , Joe Biden , for profit . Archer served on the board of Burisma Holdings with Hunter Biden and was convicted of defrauding a Native American tribe . <p> This order declassifies the government files regarding the assassinations of the three men . <p> A 1992 law ordered the release of the files related to the John Kennedy assassination , but the publication of the documents has been delayed several times as the agencies have reviewed the required redactions . <p> Trump 's order requires the attorney general and director of national intelligence to present a plan for the release of the John Kennedy files within 15 days . It gives them 45 days to do the same for Robert Kennedy and King . <p> This order would grant full federal benefits associated with being a federally recognized tribe to the Lumbee Tribe of North Carolina , which Trump promised on the campaign trail . The order gives the interior secretary 90 days to present a plan to help the tribe obtain full benefits , whether by legislation or another " legal pathway . " The House did pass legislation granting benefits in December 2024 , but it was n't taken up by the Senate . <p> This order creates a council to review reforms for the Federal Emergency Management Agency , which Trump has harshly criticized and suggested eliminating following its handling of hurricane damage in North Carolina . <p> The secretaries of homeland security and defense will co-chair the council , which is supposed to offer a report on reforms in 180 days . <p> An order giving states more control over disaster response . Read it here . <p> This order is geared toward giving states and local governments more authority in responding to disasters such as storms and cybersecurity attacks . <p> It calls for , in 90 days , a National Resilience Strategy from the assistant to the president for national security affairs . In 180 days , the same official is supposed to implement the strategy and provide recommendations for updating critical infrastructure resilience , and to provide recommendations for updating " national continuity capabilities . " <p> Within 240 days , the APNSA is supposed to provide recommendations for national preparedness and response policies , incorporating the findings from the FEMA executive order and the National Resilience Strategy as well as embracing an " all-hazards approach . " The APNSA is also supposed to come up with a " National Risk Register " that " quantifies natural and malign risks to our national infrastructure , related systems , and their users . " <p> An order creating a Task Force on Celebrating America 's 250th Birthday . Read it here . <p> This order creates a task force to prepare for the celebrations of the 250th anniversary of American Independence on July 4 , 2026 . <p> It also revives the National Garden of American Heroes , an initiative Trump started in his first term to create a sculpture garden honoring notable Americans . The effort was axed by Biden before it got off the ground . <p> The order also reinstates an order Trump issued in his first term protecting monuments from vandalism . <p> This order creates a task force of government officials , chaired by the president , to prepare for the 2026 FIFA World Cup , which will be hosted by the U.S. , Mexico , and Canada . <p> An order creating a task force to eradicate anti-Christian bias . Read the order here . <p> This order creates a task force , chaired by the attorney general and comprising the heads of major agencies , to prepare a report within one year that includes recommendations on ending anti-Christian policies , in both public and private institutions , and promoting religious liberty . The task force is supposed to consult a range of individuals , faith-based organizations , and governments and tribes . <p> The order cites , as examples of anti-Christian bias , the Biden administration 's prosecutions of anti-abortion protesters under the FACE Act , as well as instances of agencies under Biden clashing with Christians over sexual orientation or gender identity . It also noted the spate of arson and vandalism affecting churches . <p> This order instructs the attorney general to review Biden administration policies to see if they infringe on Second Amendment gun rights . The attorney general is supposed to provide a report of the findings of the review within 30 days . <p> This order creates the White House Faith Office , which will be housed in the Domestic Policy Council . The office , which is meant to engage on faith-related topics within the government and without outside representatives , is to be led by Paula White-Cain . <p> This order dissolves the Federal Executive Institute , an organization created by President Lyndon B. Johnson in Charlottesville , Virginia , to provide training to government leaders . The order says the institute has entrenched the bureaucracy at the expense of the public . <p> This order , titled " commencing the reduction of the federal bureaucracy , " calls for the elimination or reduction of a number of government boards and programs . <p> Specifically , targeted are : 1 ) The Presidio Trust , which manages a park in San Francisco . 2 ) The Inter-American Foundation , an agency that funds investment in Latin America and the Caribbean . 3 ) The United States African Development Foundation , an agency that funds investment in Africa . 4 ) The United States Institute of Peace , a think tank in Washington , D.C. <p> The order also cancels the Presidential Management Fellows Program , a two-year program bringing graduate students into the government . <p> The order also directs the termination of federal advisory committees . That includes USAID 's Advisory Committee on Voluntary Foreign Aid , the CFPB 's Academic Research Council and Credit Union Advisory Council , Advisory Committee on Long COVID , and CMS 's Health Equity Advisory Committee . <p> This order directs agencies to work to effectively shutter subagencies and other entities that the administration has deemed " unnecessary . " Some of the entities in question were created by Congress and can not be closed without congressional authorization . Their staffing and operations should be limited to the bare minimum needed to carry out the functions mandated by Congress , according to the order . <p> The entities are : the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service , the United States Agency for Global Media , the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in the Smithsonian Institution , the Institute of Museum and Library Services , the United States Interagency Council on Homelessness , the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund , and the Minority Business Development Agency . <p> Executive orders punishing Big Law firms . <p> Trump has issued several orders targeting law firms for conducting " lawfare " against him and for using DEI in hiring and promoting . The orders punish the firms by revoking their employees ' security clearances and canceling government contracts . <p> Here are the firms and orders : <p> Covington &amp; Burling , a law firm with attorneys who assisted special counsel Jack Smith in his investigations of Trump . Read it here . <p> These memos revoke security clearances for Krebs and Taylor , who worked in the DHS during Trump 's first term . They also recommend that the attorney general and DHS secretary investigate Krebs 's and Taylor 's actions during their service to determine whether they engaged in the " unauthorized dissemination of classified information . " <p> Krebs was a cybersecurity official who oversaw the 2020 election . When Krebs " falsely and baselessly denied that the 2020 election was rigged and stolen , " as the memo says , he was fired from his post . <p> Taylor wrote a then-anonymous opinion editorial for the New York Times in 2018 , saying he was " a Part of the Resistance Inside the Trump Administration . " <p> A memo instructing the attorney general to sanction lawyers who engage in " frivolous , unreasonable , and vexatious litigation " against the government . Read it here . <p> This order directs the attorney general to sanction lawyers and firms that engage in " frivolous , unreasonable , and vexatious litigation " against the administration or federal agencies . <p> It orders the attorney general to review lawyers ' conduct over the past eight years , stretching back to the start of Trump 's first term . Additionally , lawyers who misbehave could lose their security clearances or government contracts . <p> The memo cites the liberal lawyer Marc Elias as an example of someone who abused the system . <p> A memo declassifying materials from the Crossfire Hurricane investigation . Read it here . <p> This order declassifies FBI materials related to Crossfire Hurricane , the code name given to an investigation that began in July 2016 , when Trump was still a candidate , looking at his campaign 's possible ties to Russia . It follows an order Trump made in the last days of his first term . <p> A memo to limit injunctions placed on the federal government by judges . Read it here . <p> This order is meant to address the trend of federal judges placing nationwide injunctions against the Trump administration , sometimes by activists who engage in " forum shopping " to get their lawsuits before judges they believe are aligned with them ideologically . <p> The memo directs agency heads to request that courts require plaintiffs to post security equal to the government 's possible costs and damages from an injunction that is later found to be wrongful . <p> An order to have the GSA make most purchases for the federal government . Read it here . <p> This order authorizes the General Services Administration , rather than individual agencies , to conduct most federal acquisitions . <p> Agency heads have 60 days to give the GSA plans for conducting purchases . Within 90 days , the GSA is supposed to present a plan for carrying out acquisitions to the OMB . Within 30 days , the OMB director is supposed to give the GSA administrator authority to make information technology acquisitions for the whole government . <p> This order directs the administrator of the Office of Federal Public Procurement Policy , within 180 days , to amend the Federal Acquisition Regulation to simplify procurement . Any provisions of procurement rules that are not required by law are to be considered for a sunset after 4 years . Agencies that exercise procurement authority are supposed to align their policies with the reform effort . <p> An order favoring commercially available products over custom ones for government purchases . Read it here . <p> This order directs federal agencies to buy commercially available products , rather than custom ones , when possible . <p> Agencies have 60 days from the date of the order , April 16 , to review existing solicitations for products and services , and to justify demands for noncommercial options . They have 120 days to report on their progress complying with the order . <p> It also requires agency officers to sign off on writing on any purchases of custom products or services . <p> This memo gives the director of the Office of Personnel Management the authority to make determinations about executive branch employees ' suitability based on their conduct . It instructs the OPM to write rules regarding suitability . <p> An order giving designated officials full access to agency data . Read it here . <p> This order directs agency heads to give full authority to officials designated by them or the president to access all data in order to pursue the goal of addressing waste , fraud , and abuse . <p> Agencies have 30 days to modify or rescind policies that could prevent designated officials from accessing data . They 're also supposed to ensure that officials have " unfettered " access to data from state programs that receive federal funding . <p> This order directs the Election Assistance Commission to require proof of citizenship , which must be recorded by state or local election officials , in its national mail voter registration form . <p> It also directs federal officials to help election officials identify noncitizens who register to vote . <p> The order also directs the attorney general to penalize state officials who refuse to work with the federal government on issues relating to voting fraud , as well as to take action against states that include absentee or mail-in ballots received after Election Day in the final tabulation of votes . <p> The executive order will also create a program to " beautify " Washington , D.C. , including restoring and beautifying federal buildings , monuments , statues , memorials , parks , and roadways ; removing graffiti from commonly visited areas ; and ensuring the cleanliness of public spaces and parks . It also directs the National Park Service to clear homeless encampments and graffiti on federal lands . <p> This major order is meant to undo many of the rules put in place by the Biden administration to promote clean energy , limit carbon emissions , increase efficiency rules for appliances , and boost electric vehicles . <p> It sets up reviews by agencies to find ways to undo clean energy rules and promote energy production . <p> It undoes a dozen Biden climate-related orders and terminates the American Climate Corps started by Biden . <p> It orders the Council on Environmental Quality to speed up permitting under the National Environmental Policy Act , the bedrock environmental law that requires environmental reviews of projects . It also orders other agencies to put forward recommendations to Congress for overhauling permitting laws . <p> It limits agency environmental reviews to just what is required by the underlying laws . Specifically , it undoes the Biden administration 's " social cost of carbon " calculation , which was used to guide the cost-benefit analyses of various federal rules . <p> The order also ends the pause on approvals of new exports of liquefied natural gas put in place by the Biden Energy Department . <p> The rule also calls for accelerating mining for critical minerals . <p> An executive order declaring a national energy emergency . Read it here . <p> This order directs agencies to find ways they can use emergency powers to produce energy and build energy infrastructure . <p> Among other provisions , it asks the Environmental Protection Agency to consider allowing year-round sales of gasoline with a higher blend of ethanol , known as E15 . <p> This order withdraws the U.S. again from the Paris Agreement , the 2016 agreement by countries to aim to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius . The order tells agencies to undo any policies they put in place to work toward the goal . <p> Trump had withdrawn from the agreement in 2016 , and then Biden rejoined it . <p> This memo blocks all lease sales for offshore wind projects and pauses any new approvals , permits , leases , or loans for wind projects both on and offshore . It follows Trump 's campaign pledges to stop the construction of wind turbines . <p> This order directs relevant agencies to route more water from the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta to other parts of the state . It 's responsive to Trump 's feud with Gov . Gavin Newsom ( D-CA ) about his management of water in the state . Trump has criticized Newsom 's administration for opposing his water management plans on the grounds of protecting the Delta smelt , an endangered species of fish . <p> This order , which follows from Trump 's criticism of California 's government for managing the water supply and fighting wildfires , instructs agencies to find ways to redirect water to Southern California to help fight the fires , overriding local policies as necessary . It instructs the interior secretary to operate the Central Valley Project to supply water to high-need areas , " notwithstanding any contrary state or local laws . " The agencies have 15 days to report back about authorities that could be invoked to take control of the water system . <p> The order also instructs the OMB director to find ways , within 30 days , to attach strings to grants that California gets from the federal government to entice the state to change its policies . <p> This order is meant to unleash all of Alaska 's " natural resource potential , " including timber , seafood , and critical minerals . It specifically supports projects exporting LNG from the state , prioritizing any necessary permitting and pipeline construction to transport LNG to the U.S. and abroad . <p> The order also calls on the U.S. to " fully avail " itself of Alaska 's lands and resources , maximize the development of natural resources , and expedite permitting and leasing for energy projects in the state . Trump 's action additionally withdraws a number of Biden administration policies related to the region , including its cancellation of any leases within the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge . <p> This order directs the heads of agencies to stop the use of paper straws . It also tells the assistant to the president for domestic policy to present , within 45 days , a " National Strategy to End the Use of Paper Straws . " The policy is supposed to promote the elimination of paper straws in the federal government and review policies that might encourage the use of paper straws by states and other entities . <p> An order establishing the " National Energy Dominance Council . " Read it here . <p> This order creates a council , located within the executive office of the president , to pursue the production and distribution of fossil fuels , nuclear power , and geothermal energy . The council does n't have a mandate to boost renewable energy sources like wind and solar . The council 's chairman is the secretary of the interior , Doug Burgum , and the vice chairman is the secretary of energy , Chris Wright . A number of other agency heads are members . <p> The council has 100 days to provide recommendations for pursuing " energy dominance , " including accelerating permitting approvals , facilitating natural gas pipelines to California , New England , and Alaska , and bringing small modular nuclear reactors online . <p> An order to boost the production of critical minerals using the Defense Production Act . Read it here . <p> This executive order invokes the Defense Production Act to boost domestic mineral production capacity by providing finance , loans , and investment for new projects . The order will also establish a dedicated critical minerals fund . The financing will be provided through the International Development Finance Corporation in collaboration with the Department of Defense . <p> The order calls on the secretary of the interior to prioritize mineral production on federal land . The secretaries of defense , energy , agriculture , and the interior will also help to identify additional sites for mineral production activities that can be permitted quickly . <p> The order will cover minerals such as uranium , copper , potash , gold , and any other element , compound , or material determined to be critical by the National Energy Dominance Council , such as coal . <p> An order aimed at the reliability of the electrical grid . Read it here . <p> This order directs the Department of Energy to use its authority under the Federal Power Act to prevent power plants from going offline if necessary to prevent blackouts in at-risk regions of the system regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission . <p> An order meant to stop state policies penalizing fossil fuels . Read it here . <p> This order directs the attorney general to identify and try to stop state laws that place burdens on energy sources and might be unconstitutional or run afoul of federal laws , such as the Vermont law that requires fossil fuel companies to pay into a climate fund . <p> An order boosting the coal industry . Read it here , and the related proclamation here . <p> This order directs a number of steps to be taken to boost coal production . <p> It instructs the National Energy Dominance Council to designate coal as a " mineral " under Trump 's orderaimed at increasing domestic mineral production . <p> It also orders relevant agencies to prioritize leasing for coal mining on federal lands , ends Obama-era coal leasing moratoriums , and directs the Council on Environmental Quality to adopt coal-related categorical exclusions under the National Environmental Policy Act , meaning that projects can move forward without going through lengthy environmental reviews . <p> It also orders administration officials to identify prospects for coal to be used to power AI data centers . <p> Trump also signed a proclamation exempting some coal plants from updated Mercury and Air Toxics Standards . <p> This order directs the Department of Energy to roll back water efficiency standards that limit the amount of water per minute allowed to flow through showerheads , which the president has blamed for poor water pressure . <p> This order directs the Environmental Protection Agency , the Department of Energy , the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission , and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to include " sunsets " for new regulations . Specifically , new rules are supposed to sunset or expire after one year , or five years if extended . <p> This memo aims to speed up the environmental review and permitting process for all kinds of infrastructure projects . <p> It specifically calls on agencies to eliminate the use of paper-based application and review processes , accelerate processing times , reduce the length of documents related to applications , increase the accessibility of such documents , and improve transparency of permitting schedules . <p> An order implementing the Hyde Amendment , which prevents funding of abortions . Read it here . <p> The order also calls on the U.S. to " fully avail " itself of Alaska 's lands and resources , maximize the development of natural resources , and expedite permitting and leasing for energy projects in the state . Trump 's action additionally withdraws a number of Biden administration policies related to the region , including its cancellation of any leases within the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge . <p> This order undoes two executive orders issued by Biden that the Trump administration says undermined the Hyde Amendment , a stipulation routinely attached to spending bills that prevents federal funding for abortion . <p> The two orders in question were issued in the wake of the Supreme Court decision in Dobbs v. Jackson Women 's Health Organization that there is no constitutional right to abortion . <p> The first set up a task force on promoting abortion access . It also directed the Department of Health and Human Services to state that emergency abortions were required under federal law . It sought to protect the privacy of women who procured abortions . <p> The second was meant to aid women crossing state lines to get abortions and to further examine what could be done administratively to promote abortion access . <p> This memo restores the " Mexico City Policy , " which has been enforced by Republican presidents since Ronald Reagan . It prevents funding for abortions in foreign countries . It has been rescinded by Democratic presidents . <p> The reinstated Trump version of the order expands the directive to include not just nongovernmental organizations that receive U.S. funding for family planning , but all NGOs that receive any U.S. health assistance . <p> This order instructs agencies not to use guidance from the World Professional Association for Transgender Health and gives the secretary of health and human services 90 days to submit a review of the medical literature on best practices for minors with gender dysphoria . <p> It will also require that medical schools or hospitals that get federal funding do not engage in " chemical and surgical mutilation of children . " <p> The HHS secretary is also tasked with trying to curtail transgender procedures for minors through any measures that might be available under Obamacare , Medicare , and Medicaid . The order also instructs the defense secretary to stop transgender procedures through TRICARE . <p> The order tasks the Justice Department with prioritizing prosecutions under laws against female genital mutilation and investigating alleged fraud and deception by medical providers regarding the long-term effects of transgender procedures for minors . <p> Additionally , the DOJ is directed to draft legislation allowing children and parents to sue healthcare providers for damages resulting from gender transition procedures , with the inclusion of a lengthy statute of limitations . <p> The order also takes aim at so-called sanctuary states that allow custody changes to facilitate access to transgender procedures , calling for enforcement of federal laws such as the Parental Kidnapping Prevention Act . <p> An order establishing the " Make America Healthy Again " commission . Read it here . <p> This order creates the " Make America Healthy Again Commission , " an entity that will pursue the agenda outlined by Health and Human Services Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr . <p> The commission , chaired by Kennedy , is tasked with addressing the " childhood chronic disease crisis , " a top priority of Kennedy 's . <p> Specifically , the commission has 100 days to prepare a report assessing the problem , including by scrutinizing whether chronic conditions are caused by " over-utilization of medication , certain food ingredients , or certain chemicals , " or by antidepressants or weight-loss drugs . <p> The commission , then , 80 days later , is supposed to submit a strategy for addressing childhood chronic conditions , including ending any federal policies that contribute to them . <p> The order also says that health research that gets federal funding should be done through open-source data and with transparency , and free from conflicts of interest . <p> This order directs the assistant to the president for domestic policy to provide , within 90 days , a set of recommendations for protecting access to IVF and for " aggressively " reducing out-of-pocket costs and health plan costs for IVF services . <p> The order does not include any call for legislation or administrative action to have the government pay for IVF or to mandate that insurers cover all costs for IVF , as Trump called for on the campaign trail . <p> This order follows up on an order Trump issued in his first term , meant to push hospitals and health plans to disclose prices to patients . <p> It gives the secretaries of the treasury , labor , and HHS 90 days to update implementation of that first-term order , including by requiring the disclosure of prices , rather than estimates , and also to update regulations and guidance relating to price transparency . <p> This order directs the HHS secretary to overhaul the Medicare drug price negotiation program created by the 2022 Inflation Reduction Act and passed by Democrats . Specifically , the secretary is supposed to prioritize the selection of prescription drugs with high costs to the Medicare program and minimize any negative impacts on innovation . The secretary is also supposed to work with Congress on aligning the treatment of small-molecule prescription drugs , which must be seven years past FDA approval for prices to be negotiated , with that of biological products , which get a longer 11-year window . <p> It also requires a report on stabilizing premiums for Medicare Part D , which provides prescription drug coverage , within 180 days of the April 15 order . <p> The order includes a number of other measures aimed at drug prices , including a mandated report on the role of " Middlemen , " likely a reference to Pharmacy Benefit Managers , which are companies that buy drugs for companies and health plans . Also , it calls for making it easier for states to set up programs to import cheaper drugs from overseas , as Florida has sought to do . <p> This order extends the deadline for compliance with the TikTok divestment law , a move that effectively halts the app 's shutdown in the U.S. for 75 days . <p> The law , which went into effect Sunday , is meant to sever ties between the Chinese-owned platform and its parent company , ByteDance , over national security concerns . The new executive order seeks to address the " unfortunate timing " of the law going into effect one day before Trump took office , which was also the deadline to find a U.S. buyer for the Chinese-owned social media app . <p> An executive order withdrawing the U.S. from the World Health Organization . Read it here . <p> This order withdraws the U.S. from the WHO . Trump had sought to exit the organization in his first term over its handling of the pandemic and its investigation into the outbreak of COVID-19 in China . But Biden reversed that effort . <p> The order tasks the secretary of state and the OMB director with finding alternatives to the WHO for coordinating among countries . <p> An executive order telling the secretary of state to pursue " America First . " Read it here . <p> This order directs the secretary of state to provide guidance on an " America First Policy " that will " champion core American interests and always put America and American citizens first . " <p> An executive order banning transgender people from the armed forces . Read it here . <p> This order effectively bans transgender people from the military , as Trump sought to do in his first term . <p> It orders Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth to update the medical standards for service to reflect that the " medical , surgical , and mental health constraints on individuals with gender dysphoria " and the use of preferred pronouns are " inconsistent " with the standards required of troops . Hegseth has 30 days to issue a report on carrying out the order and 60 days to update the standards . <p> Furthermore , Hegseth is supposed to issue guidance immediately for ending the usage of preferred pronouns . <p> The order requires that males not share sleeping , changing , or bathing facilities with females , and vice versa , outside of " extraordinary operational necessity . " <p> This order bans offices and initiatives related to DEI , gender ideology , and " divisive concepts " in the military . It also bans DEI at the military academies . <p> It gives the secretary of defense 90 days to produce a review of DEI initiatives . The secretaries of defense and homeland security are supposed to issue guidance implementing the DEI ban within 30 days and submit a report on their progress within 180 days . <p> This memo instructs the relevant officials to ensure that DEI is not used in hiring or promoting members of the foreign service . It also instructs them to take action against members of the foreign service who engaged in " unconstitutional or otherwise illegal discrimination . " <p> An executive order reinstating service members who refused COVID-19 vaccine doses . Read it here . <p> This order reinstates , with back pay , service members who were discharged " solely " because they would not comply with the COVID-19 vaccine mandate . <p> An executive order establishing an " Iron Dome " for America . Read it here . <p> This order gives the defense secretary 60 days to develop a plan to implement a " next-generation missile defense shield " for the U.S. <p> Specifically , the plan should include plans for tracking missiles through space and shooting them down in space , among other specifications . <p> It also orders the Defense Department , following the submission of the plan , to conduct a review on improving coordination on missile defense with allies . <p> This memo directs the secretaries of defense and homeland security to provide space at Naval Station Guantanamo Bay for criminal illegal immigrants . Trump said the expansion could house 30,000 migrants . <p> An amendment reinstating the ' maximum pressure ' campaign on Iran . Read it here . <p> This memo orders the treasury secretary to tighten sanctions on the Iranian regime . It orders the secretary of state to start a campaign to lower Iran 's export of oil to zero , including to China , and to lead a diplomatic campaign to isolate Iran around the world , as well as to ensure that Iran can not use Iraq or Gulf states to circumvent sanctions . <p> The U.S. ambassador to the United Nations is also tasked with implementing international sanctions on Iran . The commerce secretary is ordered to limit any exports of military tech to the regime . <p> An order withdrawing from the United Nations Human Rights Council and ending UNRWA funding . Read it here . <p> This order cuts off funding for the U.N . relief agency for Gaza known as UNRWA . It also withdraws the U.S. from the U.N . Human Rights Council and orders the U.S. ambassador to the U.N . to review participation in the U.N . Educational , Scientific , and Cultural Organization , or UNESCO , and produce a report on it in 90 days . <p> The order said those groups needed scrutiny for " propagating anti-Semitism " and said that UNRWA employees were involved in the Oct. 7 , 2023 , Hamas attack on Israel . <p> This order , which repeats actions Trump took in his first term , sanctions the ICC for prosecuting U.S. allies , specifically Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Former Minister of Defense Yoav Gallant . <p> It sanctions ICC officials for going after Americans or allies by freezing their assets and limiting their travel . <p> ICC prosecutor Karim Khan is the first and only person listed as sanctioned . <p> This order is justified as reacting to a law in South Africa that allows the expropriation of land without compensation in some cases , which the order says allows the government to " seize ethnic minority Afrikaners ' agricultural property without compensation . " <p> The order directs agencies to halt foreign aid to Africa and to prioritize the admission of Afrikaner refugees . <p> An order pausing the enforcement of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act . Read it here . <p> This order directs the attorney general to pause enforcement of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act , which makes it illegal to bribe foreign government officials . The order says enforcement of the law has been stretched to include routine business , undermining U.S. foreign policy . <p> The attorney general has 180 days to come up with new guidelines for enforcing the law . The pause can be extended in 180-day increments as deemed necessary by the attorney general . <p> An order to ensure that the diplomatic corps follows the president 's agenda . Read it here . <p> This order states that failure by workers within the State Department to follow the president 's agenda is grounds for separation . <p> It says that the secretary of state should take action with respect to subordinates who fail to enact the president 's policies , including by referring presidentially appointed officials to Trump for consideration.It directs the secretary of state to reform the Foreign Service to ensure that workers are " committed to faithful implementation " of the president 's agenda , including by overhauling the Foreign Service Institute and the Foreign Affairs Manual . <p> An order ending collective bargaining for national security positions . Read it here . <p> This order excludes a range of federal employees from collective bargaining . It does not include police or firefighters . <p> This order directs the secretaries of defense and state to review rules pertaining to weapons exports . They are supposed to propose updates to the process by which Congress certifies sales of weapons to allies under the Arms Export Control Act . <p> This order requires the administrator of the General Services Administration to produce recommendations for policies to ensure that federal buildings are " visually identifiable as civic buildings and respect regional , traditional , and classical architectural heritage in order to uplift and beautify public spaces and ennoble the United States and our system of self-government . " <p> The order continues a quest Trump began during his first term to ensure new federal buildings are not just functional but also follow a traditional style of architecture . The president and others have expressed their dissatisfaction with some modernist architecture .
