<h> Is It Happening Here ? <p> Zoltan Mikl ? si , a Hungarian political philospher , has done research relating to the lag between understanding the slide into authoritarianism and emotionally accepting it . " If I admit that I live in an autocracy , " he said , " this raises a lot of other inconvenient questions . " Photo illustration by Mike McQuade ; Source photographs from Getty / Reuters <p> The anti-Trump books were received the way most information about Donald Trump is received . Those who hated him felt apoplectic , or vindicated ; those who liked him mostly tuned it out . But " How Democracies Die , " by two political scientists at Harvard , was about a global phenomenon that was bigger than Trump , and it became a touchstone , the sort of book whose title ( " Manufacturing Consent , " " Bowling Alone " ) is often invoked as a shorthand for an important but nebulous set of issues . When a book attains this status , the upside is that it can have a wide impact . ( In 2018 , according to the Washington Post , Joe Biden " became obsessed " with " How Democracies Die " and started carrying it around with him wherever he went . ) The downside is that many people -- including those who are aware of the book but have n't quite got around to reading it -- may hear a game-of-telephone version of the argument , not the argument itself . <p> Trump 's first term lasted four years -- no more , no less . The sun rose every morning and set every evening . The President made some wildly unsettling statements ; he allowed his relatives to exploit their power for profit ; he badly mishandled a pandemic ; he threatened to nuke North Korea , or ( reportedly ) a hurricane , but in the end he did n't do either of those things . Nor did he declare martial law , barricade himself inside the White House , and refuse to leave . In his final days , he did gin up a fleeting attempt at a " self-coup , " but he never had the judges or the generals on his side . By the time he left , many casual observers found it absurd to imagine that American democracy was dying . What would that even mean ? <p> When Trump ran again , in 2024 , his autocratic rhetoric was more pitched . He promised retribution , a purge of ideological enemies , and mass deportations on flimsy legal pretexts . His opponents called him a fascist , but this only seemed to backfire . " Look , we can disagree with one another , we can debate one another , but we can not tell the American people that one candidate is a fascist , and if he is elected it is going to be the end of American democracy , " his running mate , J. D. Vance , said at the time . Vance had previously compared Trump to Hitler and to heroin , but his views , along with those of most Americans , had softened over time . This vibe shift was enough to get Trump re ? lected , but it did n't change the underlying threat . <p> For decades , scientists argued that rising carbon levels would cause an increasingly unstable ecosystem , but most people got only the game-of-telephone version . " We keep hearing that 2014 has been the warmest year on record , " Senator James Inhofe said , holding up a snowball on the Senate floor . " It 's very , very cold out . " The climate Cassandras had n't actually predicted the immediate end of winter . The slow-motion emergency they had predicted -- melting permafrost , once-in-a-century storms appearing once every few months -- was in fact happening , right on schedule . Still , no matter how dire the situation got , it was possible to normalize the damage . " No one 's denying it is unpleasant , " Laura Ingraham , the Fox News anchor , said in 2023 . " My eyes are pretty itchy and watery . " That day , the air in midtown Manhattan was choked with acrid wildfire smoke from Canada , and the sky was a macabre shade of orange . " There 's no health risk , " her guest , a former coal lobbyist , replied . " We have this kind of air in India and China all the time . " <p> In a Hollywood disaster movie , when the big one arrives , the characters do n't have to waste time debating whether it 's happening . There is an abrupt , cataclysmic tremor , a deafening roar ; the survivors , suddenly transformed , stagger through a charred , unrecognizable landscape . In the real world , though , the cataclysm can come in on little cat feet . The tremors can be so muffled and distant that people continually adapt , explaining away the anomalies . You can live through the big one , it turns out , and still go on acting as if -- still go on feeling as if -- the big one is not yet here . <p> The authors of " How Democracies Die , " Steven Levitsky and Daniel Ziblatt , were describing what political scientists call " democratic backsliding " -- a potential descent into " competitive authoritarianism . " This is not what happened in nineteen-thirties Europe , when pluralistic republics suddenly collapsed into genocidal war machines . Nor is it what happened in late-twentieth-century Russia and China , which transitioned so quickly from totalitarian communism to autocratic capitalism that there was never much democracy to slide back from . It 's what happened in Turkey after 2013 , in India after 2014 , in Poland after 2015 , in Brazil after 2019 -- countries that had gone through the long and difficult process of achieving a consolidated liberal democracy , then started unachieving it . " Blatant dictatorship -- in the form of fascism , communism , or military rule -- has disappeared across much of the world , " Levitsky and Ziblatt write . " Democracies still die , but by different means . " Some of this may happen under cover of darkness , but much of it happens in the open , under cover of arcane technocracy or boring bureaucracy . " Many government efforts to subvert democracy are ' legal , ' in the sense that they are approved by the legislature or accepted by the courts , " the authors write . " They may even be portrayed as efforts to improve democracy . " <p> The first hundred days of Donald Trump 's second term have been enervating , bewildering , almost impossible to parse in real time . The Administration has used some degree of brute force to accomplish its aims , but it has relied more often on ambiguity , misdirection , and plausible deniability . Some of its actions have seemed comically paltry : coercing a government attorney to restore Mel Gibson 's right to a gun license ; making the Kennedy Center " hot " again . Others may be haphazard power grabs , or may amount to something more . The Department of Government Efficiency , which is not a government department , declares that it will not allow condoms to be sent to Gaza , which actually means that it has cut off funding for health services in Mozambique . An eight-billion-dollar budget cut turns out to be an eight-million-dollar budget cut . Jeff Bezos smothers the editorial mission of the Washington Post , and Amazon commissions a forty-million-dollar documentary about the First Lady . Undercover agents arrest people for thought crimes . " We 've had two perfect months , " the President says , moments after signing an executive order that reverses some of the signal achievements of the civil-rights movement . " Like , in the history of our country , no one 's ever seen anything like it . " <p> " When I grow up , I want to be food waste at a gala . " <p> Cartoon by Ellie Black <p> Link copied <p> In their book , Levitsky and Ziblatt return many times to the example of Hungary . The first time Viktor Orb ? n was Prime Minister , from 1998 to 2002 , he governed democratically . But by the time he won again , in 2010 , he had recast himself as a hard-right skeptic of liberal democracy . Within a few months , mostly through legal means , his party , Fidesz , locked in its power and began reshaping the courts , the universities , and the private sector in its favor . Orb ? n is now the longest-serving Prime Minister in the European Union . Since 2011 or so , Hungary has been what is known as a " hybrid regime " -- not a totalitarian dictatorship , but not a real democracy , either . There are no tanks in the streets ; there are elections , and public protests , and judges in robes . But , the more closely you look at its core civic institutions , the more you see how they 've been hollowed out from within . " The way they do it here , and the way they are starting to do it in your country as well , they do n't need to use too much open violence against us , " P ? ter Krek ? , a Hungarian social scientist , told me in January , over lunch in central Budapest . " The new way is cheaper , easier , looks nicer on TV . " <p> We were in an Italian restaurant with white tablecloths , at a window overlooking a bustling side street -- as picturesque as in any European capital . Krek ? glanced over his shoulder once or twice , but only to make sure he would n't be overheard gossiping about professional peers , not because he was afraid of being hauled off by secret police . " Before it starts , you say to yourself , ' I will leave this country immediately if they ever do this or that horrible thing , ' " he went on . " And then they do that thing , and you stay . Things that would have seemed impossible ten years ago , five years ago , you may not even notice . " He finished his gnocchi , considered a glass of wine , then opted for an espresso instead . " It 's embarrassing , almost , how comfortable you can be , " he said . " There are things you could do or say -- as a person in academia , or in the media , or an N.G.O . -- that would get them to come after you . But if you know where the lines are , and you do n't cross them , you can have a good life . " <p> Krek ? has an office at the Budapest campus of Central European University , a couple of blocks away from the restaurant . It is a complex of multi-story buildings , sleek and strikingly modern . We passed through an angled glass foyer into a sunlit atrium full of blond wood and exposed brick . You did n't have to be an architecture expert to get the message : openness and transparency . But , for a weekday afternoon , it was eerily quiet . " It 's sort of a ghost building , " Krek ? said . <p> Soon after C.E.U. opened , in 1991 , it became one of the most prestigious and well-funded liberal-arts universities in the post-Soviet world . The man who funded it , the Hungarian expat George Soros , was an ally of many young members of Hungary 's newly elected parliament , including a former pro-democracy activist named Viktor Orb ? n . The campus in Budapest was refurbished in 2016 , in time for the university 's twenty-fifth anniversary . By then , though , Orb ? n was governing as a pugnacious ultranationalist . He had refashioned Soros as his archenemy , the personification of everything real Hungarians should reject : decadent globalism , open borders , " gender ideology , " a rootless cosmopolitan ? lite . <p> That same year , Istv ? n Hegedus , a former politician who had served in parliament alongside Orb ? n , read an article in a pro-Fidesz newspaper which implied that only the Party 's generosity enabled C.E.U. to stay in Budapest . A few days later , he attended a reception at the university , where , he recalled , he told an administrator , " ' You must interpret this to mean that you are in danger . ' But he said , ' Who cares what they write in an article ? ' " C.E.U. was a private institution , accredited both in Hungary and in the U.S. ; even if Orb ? n had wanted to meddle with it , he had no legal authority to do so . Still , Hegedus told the administrator , " You are underestimating him . " Orb ? n 's populist rhetoric did n't always line up with reality -- while promising to uplift the working class , he and some of his closest friends seemed to have rapidly grown rich -- and it was inconvenient when intellectuals pointed this out . Win or lose , a public spat with C.E.U. seemed to redound to his political benefit . An ? lite institution , full of foreigners and strange ideas , had taken root in his country 's biggest city , and he would not stand for it . <p> Like all semi-autocrats , Orb ? n picks more fights than he wins . For a few months , it seemed as though his broadsides against C.E.U. might be mere rhetoric . But , in 2017 , Fidesz quietly passed an amendment to a law , placing new restrictions on international universities within Hungary . The amendment did n't mention Soros or C.E.U. by name , but the school was widely perceived to be its sole target . The European Court of Justice ruled that this was a violation of E.U. law -- three years later . But by then it was too late . C.E.U. 's academic operations had been transferred to Vienna , leaving a large number of students in limbo , and causing many of Hungary 's top scholars to leave the country . In the ensuing years , many of Hungary 's public universities came under the control of a set of private foundations -- ostensibly a step toward modernization , but in practice a way for the foundations , which are said to be run by Orb ? n loyalists , to exert more influence over the country 's next generation of leaders . Beyond higher education , Fidesz used similar tactics in attempts to restrict international donations to N.G.O.s , and to force independent judges into early retirement . This year , Recep Tayyip Erdogan , the **25;1476;TOOLONG President of Turkey , took the unprecedented step of having his main political rival , the mayor of Istanbul , arrested . So far , Orb ? n has not resorted to such a move , but , then again , most of his re ? lection campaigns have n't been close . <p> Even now , there is still some plausible deniability . I had read about C.E.U. being banished from Budapest , and yet here I was , standing inside the building . A few American college students were passing through on a study-abroad tour . A display case was filled with recently published books ; a polished-stone plaque was engraved with a quote ( " Thinking can never quite catch up with reality " ) attributed to C.E.U. 's founder and honorary chairman , George Soros . <p> The more I poked around , though , the more I saw indications that the institution had , in fact , been hollowed out -- a Potemkin university with a sleek fa ? ade . A laminated sign , dated months prior , was taped to a locked door : " The PhD labs at the Budapest site will be closed . " An inviting rooftop terrace stood empty , except for some newly planted trees bending in a stiff wind . Inside , though there were still department markers on the walls ( Gender Studies , Historical Studies , International Relations ) , many of the offices were either empty or littered with debris . I passed an office with a light on , and a young man at a computer looked up , clearly startled to see anyone . He politely explained that he worked for a video-editing startup , which was renting the office by the month . <p> At a caf ? on the ground floor , where " Hotel California " was playing in the background , I sat with Zoltan Mikl ? si , a political philosopher who now commutes to C.E.U. 's campus in Vienna . " In the social sciences , they talk about the ' just-world bias , ' " he told me . " People want to believe that the world they live in , the system they live under , is mostly fair . " In 2015 , one of his colleagues " made the case , very meticulously , that we no longer live in a democracy . I felt , ' I can not go there ' -- it seemed too extreme . But I had to admit that I could n't think of good counter-arguments . " This sort of discrepancy -- the lag between intellectual acknowledgment and emotional acceptance -- relates to one of Mikl ? si 's areas of research . " If I admit that I live in an autocracy , especially a ' hybrid autocracy ' that functions by unpredictable rules , this raises a lot of other inconvenient questions , " he said . Many of a citizen 's fundamental decisions -- whether to vote , whether to follow the law -- presuppose a democratically legitimate state . " If that 's gone , then how am I supposed to live ? " <p> I agreed that the hybridity was confusing . I could hardly make sense of the building I was in . If Orb ? n was so single-minded in his opposition to C.E.U. Budapest , then why not raid the building and put a " For Sale " sign on the door ? If Hungary was an autocracy , then why were its critics still allowed to sit in the middle of the capital and say so ? Mikl ? si suggested that this ambiguity was part of the point . Maybe , he said , if government ministers started to fear that his peer-reviewed articles were about to spark a revolution , " they would find a way to make my life unpleasant . " They probably would n't jail him , but in theory they could subject him to smears in the state-aligned media , or make it difficult for anyone in his family to get a government job . He added , " For now , I guess , they do n't think I 'm worth the effort . " <p> You hear the word " playbook " a lot these days . ( The Guardian : " Trump 's weird obsession with the arts is part of the authoritarian playbook . " MSNBC : " Is the chaos that we have seen since Inauguration Day part of the playbook ? " ) Trump has never made a secret of his admiration for tyrants , and he frequently mentions Orb ? n as a model statesman . " These guys do seem to learn from one another , " Julia Sonnevend , a communications scholar at the New School who grew up in Hungary , told me . Trump 's son Don , Jr. , went to El Salvador last June to attend the inauguration of that country 's despot , Nayib Bukele . Eduardo Bolsonaro , the son of the Brazilian semi-autocrat Jair Bolsonaro , was in Washington for Trump 's Inauguration in January ( and was also there four years before , on January 6th ) . <p> If you 're looking for one master playbook , though , you may end up overemphasizing resemblances and downplaying distinctions . " One difference between Orb ? n and Trump is between suborning the state and blowing it up , " Anna Grzymala-Busse , a political scientist at Stanford , told me . Moreover , some parts of Trump 's program are escalations of pre ? xisting trends , not fundamental discontinuities . The corruption , the xenophobic nationalism , the ambient threat of decentralized violence -- these may be more glaring now , but , whether we like to admit it or not , they have been present throughout American history . George W. Bush stretched Presidential powers well beyond their previous limits ; Barack Obama expanded them even further . In the first hundred days of this term , Trump has issued the most executive orders of any modern President . There 's nothing inherently illegitimate about that . Some of these orders -- declassifying documents related to the J.F.K. assassination , declaring English the country 's official language -- have been divisive but have not obviously exceeded the President 's legal authority . Others , such as a ban on paper straws , have been mostly for show . <p> In other respects , though , this term already represents a sharp and menacing break . Executive orders such as the ones titled " Addressing Risks from Paul Weiss " and " Addressing Risks from Jenner &amp; Block " are self-evidently cudgels for Trump to wield against his enemies -- in this case white-shoe lawyers who have worked for his political opposition . ( The orders could be read as prohibiting employees at these firms from entering federal buildings , including courthouses . ) When the Bush Administration gave no-bid military contracts to Halliburton , of which Vice-President Dick Cheney had recently been the C.E.O . -- or when the current Administration awarded contracts to SpaceX , whose current C.E.O. , Elon Musk , is one of Trump 's top advisers -- it certainly seemed like favoritism , but it was impossible to prove that any strings had been pulled . In Trump 's orders against the law firms , though , he is explicit that he is punishing them because of his antipathy to their employees ( " the unethical Andrew Weissmann " ) or their clients ( " failed Presidential candidate Hillary Clinton " ) -- which appears to be a textbook violation of the First and Sixth Amendments . Turkuler Isiksel , a political theorist at Columbia , told me , " The sovereign openly picking winners and losers in the market -- forget Orb ? n or Erdogan . That 's something a seventeenth-century king would do . " <p> The Biden Administration , and even the first Trump Administration , justified deportations with arguments that had a chance of holding up in court . But this Administration has swept up putative gang members , some reportedly for nothing more than having a tattoo , and disappeared them to foreign prisons . Instead of bringing prosecutions , it has simply sent undercover officers to snatch legal residents -- accused of nothing but disfavored political speech -- off the street . " Dear marxist judges , " Trump 's homeland-security adviser , Stephen Miller , wrote . " If an illegal alien criminal breaks into our country , " the only due process " he is entitled to is deportation . " But this is n't how the law works , even for non-citizens . As one expert put it , in 2014 , " Anybody who 's present in the United States has protections under the United States Constitution . " The Marxist judge who said that was Justice Antonin Scalia . <p> Previous American Presidents signed orders knowing that they would be challenged in court . But some of Trump 's orders -- one radically curtailing birthright citizenship , one banning transgender people from the military , and several more -- seem facially unconstitutional . In the early days of this term , there was a lot of speculation about whether the executive branch might defy a direct order from a federal judge , and , if so , whether this would comprise a constitutional crisis . Then it happened , several times . In February , a federal judge ordered immigration officials to turn planes around , but the officials preferred not to . ( " I do n't care what the judges think , " Trump 's border czar said . Trump agreed , posting , " This judge , like many of the Crooked Judges ' I am forced to appear before , should be IMPEACHED ! ! ! " ) In March , one district judge ordered the release of emergency-management funds that were being withheld from nearly two dozen states run by Democrats ; in April , another judge ordered the government to halt its plan to decimate the staff of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau . In written rulings , both judges expressed concern that the government was not complying with their orders . ( " There is reason to believe , " one judge wrote , that Administration officials were " thumbing their nose at . . . this Court . " ) Last week , the F.B.I . arrested a judge in Wisconsin and charged her with two felonies . Still , no matter how dire the situation got , some commentators kept saying that we were on the brink of a constitutional crisis , not already in one . Once you admit that you are in a constitutional crisis , it raises a lot of other inconvenient questions . <p> One morning in January , I took a car high into the Buda Hills to meet with David Pressman , who was then serving out his final days as the U.S. Ambassador to Hungary . We sat on settees in his official residence , next to a grand piano and a painting called " Sisyphus Smiling , " while the staff served us coffee in fine china . Pressman , previously a human-rights lawyer and the director of George Clooney 's Foundation for Justice , had done stints in Mogadishu and Khartoum before he was sent to Budapest . " I wanted to go somewhere , candidly , where democracy was in crisis , " he said . What he could n't anticipate was that he would be subject to unrelenting attacks in the state-aligned media , turning him into a nationally famous pariah . Before he arrived , in 2022 , with his husband and their two children , someone rolled out a welcome banner on the Danube : a skull and crossbones , with the message " Mr. Pressman , do n't colonize Hungary with your cult of death " ; during his stay , the pro-regime media mocked him constantly as an " L.G.B.T. activist " and a " full-time provocateur . " <p> " When you 're dealing with a state that has clearly dispensed with the traditional norms , it does n't work to just stick to the old ways , " Pressman told me . He was trying to break from the staid habits of diplomacy , but the impact remained unclear . The previous night , he 'd announced that the U.S. Treasury had sanctioned one of Orb ? n 's top ministers , freezing his American assets . This was an unprecedented step -- similar sanctions had been issued against government ministers in Russia , but not against officials in countries that are putative U.S. allies , such as Hungary -- yet it was hardly a death blow to Orb ? n 's kleptocracy . The government treated it as more evidence of American animus , and the minister in question denied wrongdoing and shrugged it off . When I Googled his name , Antal Rog ? n , there were a few stories about the sanctions in the international press , but many more about " The Joe Rogan Experience . " ( A few weeks after Trump was inaugurated , the sanctions were repealed . ) <p> " I know we 're out of time , but I did want to quickly cast doubt on everything we discussed and nullify any progress we made . " <p> Cartoon by Joseph Dottino and Alex Pearson <p> Link copied <p> In an armored S.U.V. with a tiny American flag on the hood , we were driven to the American Embassy . Pressman met with civil-society leaders , saying his goodbyes . The Hungarian government had unveiled a mysterious new department called the Sovereignty Protection Office . " We do n't know yet if it 's just a publicity tactic , or if they are being given new surveillance powers , " Mikl ? s Ligeti , from a nonprofit called Transparency International Hungary , said . " But our organization is under investigation by this office , so maybe we will find out . " <p> " I heard one of the ministers on TV this morning , stating , ' After Ambassador Pressman leaves , he should avoid Hungary in the future , ' " a representative from Human Rights Watch said . <p> " I wo n't be following that recommendation , " Pressman said , with a wry smile . <p> " Well , bring a burner phone , " Szabolcs Panyi , an investigative journalist , said . It was gallows humor , but also good advice . <p> Each June in Budapest , Pressman hosted a Pride celebration on his lawn . The Hungarian government seemed to hate this , but there did n't appear to be much it could do -- there had been a large Pride parade in the streets of Budapest every year since 1997 . Yet nothing in politics is static . Last month , the Hungarian parliament passed a law banning all Pride celebrations . Anyone disobeying the ban this June could be identified by the police with facial-recognition software . <p> Pressman recently moved back to New York and resumed his work as a partner at Jenner &amp; Block , one of the law firms Trump has targeted with an executive order . ( Unlike other firms , which cut deals with the Administration , Jenner &amp; Block is fighting the order in court . ) " Most Americans have n't lived through a situation like this , so they have no idea what it means for powerful institutions to be captured by the state , " Pressman told me earlier this month . " They may assume they can keep their heads down for four years , make concessions , and then regain their independence on the back end . But history shows -- and the Hungarian experience shows -- that they would be mistaken . " <p> Castle Hill , on the west bank of the Danube River , is full of fortresses built during the Middle Ages . Tucked among them is a slender building constructed to include a five-hundred-year-old stone fortification . It houses the Danube Institute , a right-wing think tank funded indirectly by the Orb ? n government . In January , Istv ? n Kiss , the director , invited me into his office , which was tastefully crammed with Impressionist-style paintings and leather-bound books . It was a busy time for him : he had been in Palm Beach for one of Trump 's Election Night victory parties , and he was invited back to Washington for the Inauguration , but he probably would n't be able to go , because his wife was about to give birth . The government offers generous tax breaks to families with more than two children , a policy aimed at increasing the Hungarian birth rate , and this would be Kiss 's third . " Honestly , we might have stopped at two otherwise , " he told me . " But the incentives were quite appealing . " When he was a university student , he spent a week at the Mises Institute , a libertarian think tank in Alabama . " I discovered that I have some libertarian leanings , but my social conservatism is stronger , " he said . " The left is using the state for its purposes , so why should n't we ? " <p> In April , 2023 , in a dungeon-like theatre space in the building 's basement , Kiss introduced an onstage Q. &amp; A. with Christopher Rufo , a right-wing American activist who was in Hungary for a six-week Danube Institute fellowship . For years , Rufo had been pushing for an ideological overhaul of the entire American education system -- a proposal that had once struck most politicians , even most MAGA Republicans , as a non-starter . But Rufo said that a version of this program was taking shape in Florida , where he was an adviser to Governor Ron DeSantis . It could be accomplished most directly at state-run institutions such as New College , where DeSantis had installed Rufo as a trustee . ( Within months , the trustees had dismantled the gender-studies program and replaced the school 's president , a feminist English professor , with a former Republican politician . ) Even when it came to private institutions , where DeSantis had less formal power , he still found ways to gain leverage -- for example , by announcing that he would rescind tax breaks from Disney and , by extension , perhaps other " woke " corporations . " It 's essential to have someone that understands how to change institutions , " Rufo said , onstage in Budapest . He added that , during Trump 's first term , " the reality is that the institutions submerged Trump more than Trump reformed the institutions . " <p> When Trump returned to office , in 2025 , he seemed determined to prove such skeptics wrong . Rufo , whose posts on X had caught Musk 's attention , went to Washington in early February , posting a photo from the Department of Education headquarters with the caption " Entering the inner sanctum . " ( Rufo recently told me that he was an informal adviser to the Department of Education . A spokesperson for the department , when reached for comment , replied , " He does not advise DOE in any official capacity and should not be referred to as an advisor . " ) Rufo told the Times that he hoped the government would withhold money from universities " in a way that puts them in an existential terror . " He did n't have to wait long . On March 7th , shortly after Linda McMahon , the former C.E.O . of World Wrestling Entertainment , was confirmed as Trump 's new Secretary of Education , the Administration threatened to cut off four hundred million dollars in federal funds to Columbia University , citing campus demonstrations against Israel 's war in Gaza . Trump may have been eager to pick a fight with Columbia because it was the only Ivy League school in his home town , or because it was the school he most associated with anti-Israel protests , perhaps having seen so many of them on TV . In any case , if there is one thing the President understands , it 's how to seed a compelling media narrative : an ? lite institution , full of foreigners and strange ideas , had taken root in his country 's biggest city , and he would not stand for it . <p> On March 13th , the Trump Administration sent Columbia a letter that might as well have been a ransom note . Before the university could even discuss getting its money back , it had to implement nine new policies , including banning face masks and empowering campus security guards to make arrests . On March 21st , it acceded to nearly all the government 's demands . " Columbia is folding -- and the other universities will follow suit , " Rufo wrote on X. He told me recently , " It has been happening , honestly , way more quickly than I anticipated . It 's beautiful to see . " <p> Previous Presidents have used incentives to goad private institutions , but no modern President has so openly used executive spending as an extortion racket . Eighteen of the country 's top constitutional-law scholars , both liberals and conservatives , wrote an open letter : " The government may not threaten funding cuts as a tool to pressure recipients into suppressing First Amendment-protected speech . " Yet the government has continued to do exactly that . ( " President Trump is working to Make Higher Education Great Again , " a White House spokesperson told The New Yorker , in part . " Any institution that wishes to violate Title VI is , by law , not eligible for federal funding . " ) Given how quickly some universities have capitulated , why would n't the Administration use similar tactics to bully state governments , or Hollywood studios , or other entities that rely on federal money ? Last year , Vance gave an interview to the European Conservative , a glossy print journal published in Budapest , in which he praised Orb ? n 's dominance of cultural institutions . By altering " incentives " and " funding decisions , " Vance added , " you really can use politics to influence culture . " <p> It will take a lot more than this to turn Columbia into a Potemkin university , or to drive it out of the country . C.E.U. was founded in the nineteen-nineties ; Columbia was founded before the Declaration of Independence was written , and still has an endowment of more than fourteen billion dollars . In the coming months , though , smaller universities will surely be targeted , and some will presumably go bankrupt . ( In February , with the stroke of a pen , Trump slashed the staff at two colleges run by the Bureau of Indian Education , and it barely made the news . ) I visited Columbia earlier this month . Instead of passing through the main gate as usual , I had to stop at a checkpoint , where , between a couple of classical sculptures representing Science and Letters , some uniformed security guards waited to check my I.D . Two professors met me on campus . " They keep adding more of this Orwellian shit , " one told me , gesturing at a bulbous security camera above our heads . The other added , " After a while , unfortunately , you stop noticing . " One of them had studied democratic collapse in Europe and Latin America ; the other was from India , where , under the competitive authoritarian Narendra Modi , academic freedom was under constant assault . Neither would say more , even off the record , until we walked away from campus to the edge of the Hudson River , where they would be less likely to be overheard or recorded . " It may seem paranoid , " one of them said . " But not if you 've seen this movie before . " <p> The most influential independent media outlet in Hungary is a YouTube channel called Partiz ? n , a name that evokes both advocacy journalism and anti-authoritarian resistance . It does its work not in the pine forests of Belarus but on the outskirts of Budapest , where it broadcasts from a soundstage in an unmarked warehouse . To get there one night , I walked past dilapidated brick buildings in an industrial area without sidewalks or street lights . My American street sense told me that I was about to get mugged , but in Central Europe it can be hard to tell the difference between imminent danger and shabby chic . M ? rton Guly ? s emerged from the shadows and smiled , shaking my hand . " They filmed part of ' The Brutalist ' in this parking lot , " he said , and led me upstairs . <p> In the studio , the mood was much warmer . Guly ? s , Partiz ? n 's founder and main anchor , took his place on set , wearing a hoodie , in front of a bank of vintage TVs . He had just finished moderating the channel 's flagship daily show -- a two-hour live roundtable , analyzing the day 's news from a leftist perspective -- and he was about to tape an interview with Ben Rhodes , who had been one of Barack Obama 's top foreign-policy advisers . I sat in a control room , where a few long-haired , effortlessly well-dressed employees made instant coffee . Partiz ? n receives small donations from all over Hungary , and the control room was stocked with high-end equipment ( a five-thousand-dollar video router , a cabinet labelled " HUM ? N-ROBOT INTERF ? SZ " ) . <p> Since 2010 , the Hungarian media has been thoroughly compromised . There are a few news sites in Budapest that still do valiant investigative work , but most TV channels and newspapers with national reach essentially function as privately owned state propaganda . Again , though , the regime is careful to preserve plausible deniability . Unlike in Mexico or the Philippines , government agents in Hungary do n't kill or arrest hostile journalists . " They do n't walk into a newsroom and announce , ' We are shutting you down because you published tough stories about us , ' " G ? bor Mikl ? si , a veteran investigative journalist ( and the brother of Zoltan , the C.E.U. academic ) , told me . " They say , ' This is the new owner , and the new owner has some ideas about how to improve the business . ' And the part they do n't have to say , but everybody knows , is that this new owner is an oligarch who happens to be very close to the Prime Minister . " For a decade , G ? bor worked at Index , which used to be one of Hungary 's most reliable news outlets . After Orb ? n came to power , G ? bor started to worry about editorial independence . But there was n't much meddling at first , he said , " so I convinced myself I should stay . " When he did start to notice some editorial interference , " it was mostly minor things " -- a headline softened at the last minute , a story spiked for ambiguous reasons -- " so you can never be sure . Maybe this particular case was a misunderstanding . Maybe I 'm imagining things . " Around 2018 , a company affiliated with Index was acquired by new owners , " lesser-known businesspeople tied to Fidesz oligarchs . " After this , the editor-in-chief was fired , and most of the editorial staff , including G ? bor , resigned in protest . Now he works at Partiz ? n . <p> Guly ? s started Partiz ? n in 2015 , when he was an avant-garde theatre director in his mid-twenties . He spoke directly to the camera , aiming for " satire mixed with activism -- ' People , wake up ! They 're taking our rights away , ca n't you see that ? ' " He now considers this style cringeworthy and ineffective . " You ca n't just raise awareness , every day , every hour , about some new fucking emergency , " he continued . " Maybe it is an emergency , but if you keep saying only that then people stop listening . " The director of the Hungarian National Theatre , an outspoken critic of the government , was replaced , which became front-page news . ( In Hungary , the director of the national theatre is a celebrity . ) Guly ? s led a series of protests . In 2017 , he went to Castle Hill with a bucket of paint , prepared to throw it on the Presidential palace , and was arrested . But , when the government put him on trial as a threat to national security , Guly ? s became a cause c ? l ? bre on social media . " They did not make that mistake again , " he said . " Now , when they want to put pressure on us , they do not do it so publicly . " <p> " I know this sounds crazy , but I still want a cracker . " <p> Cartoon by P. S. Mueller <p> Link copied <p> Tax officials have inspected Partiz ? n 's financial records more than once , ostensibly for routine reasons . " We just tell them , ' Here are our books , we have kept them very carefully for you , ' " Guly ? s said . He is gay , and government-aligned tabloids often spread baseless rumors attempting to associate gay people with such things as pedophilia . " I am a boring person , actually , " he told me . " But they could use anything -- a picture of me sitting in a restaurant near someone who later turns out to be a bad guy -- and make it look like a conspiracy . " <p> The fact that Partiz ? n broadcasts online limits its reach , but also limits the government 's leverage over it . Its videos often get hundreds of thousands of views -- a big deal in a country of some ten million people . In the last election , when Orb ? n 's main challenger could n't get airtime on TV , he put his message out on Partiz ? n ; the current opposition candidate gained widespread attention through an interview with Guly ? s . The anchor now occupies a unique status -- something like Hungary 's Rachel Maddow , Amy Goodman , and John Oliver rolled into one . The American media is far more robust than the Hungarian press , but there have been early signs of trouble . The Washington Post and the Los Angeles Times pulled their Presidential endorsements last year ; Trump filed frivolous lawsuits against ABC News , which quickly settled , and CBS News , which initially vowed to fight but now seems poised to settle . The First Amendment still offers broad protections , but , even if you have the law on your side , there are plenty of incentives to avoid a confrontation with the President . This is especially true when the President seems willing to engage in extralegal tactics , such as selective audits , retributive regulation , and harassment campaigns carried out in the parts of the media that are already loyal to him . <p> Guly ? s lives in an upscale bohemian neighborhood of Budapest , and one night he had me over for a long dinner . His boyfriend made osso buco and risotto ; Guly ? s put on a John Coltrane record and poured red wine , then made Negronis . Guly ? s is considering a move to the countryside , where most Orb ? n supporters live ; he ca n't really understand his country , he feels , without spending time outside Budapest . But , for now , he is living the urban dream . " They say that Hungary is the poster child for the failure of the Enlightenment project , " Guly ? s said . " But I will stay in this country until the last possible moment . " <p> Some people , of course , see Trumpism not as a democratic emergency but as a triumph of democracy . Recently , when Vance told a Politico reporter that the President may end up defying the Supreme Court , he portrayed this as an effort not to subvert democracy but to improve it : " If the elected President says , ' I get to control the staff of my own government , ' and the Supreme Court steps in and says , ' You 're not allowed to do that ' -- like , that is the constitutional crisis . " David Reaboi , a right-wing operative who has been an adviser to American and Hungarian politicians , told me , " The Venn diagram of the people who think Orb ? n is Hitler and Trump is Hitler is a circle , and it 's made up entirely of people who are out of their minds . Saying ' Hungary is for Hungarians ' or ' America is for Americans ' is a tautology . Who else would it be for ? I do n't understand why anyone would have a mental breakdown over it . " <p> Some constitutional scholars still maintain that hair-on-fire rhetoric about the demise of the republic is counterproductive . " Look , Trump was elected democratically , and I do n't see anything that suggests that future elections will not be as democratic as previous ones , " Michael McConnell , a professor of constitutional law at Stanford , told me . " Some of what he 's attempting to do is unlawful , and he exaggerates it to make it sound even scarier than it is , but the likely end result is that he will be checked by the courts . " Andrew Jackson , McConnell went on , also had " authoritarian instincts . " Franklin Delano Roosevelt fired civil servants for ideological reasons , attempted to pack the Supreme Court , and -- violating precedent , though not the Constitution -- won a third term , and then a fourth . The Biden Administration also overreached , McConnell told me ; it just did so more quietly . One thought experiment McConnell likes to float : if a President were bending the rules on behalf of policies you liked instead of policies you deplored , how much would it bother you ? " It 's just a talking point of the left , " Tom Fitton , the head of a right-wing group called Judicial Watch , told me . " If they 're not getting their way , democracy 's at risk . " <p> The exact steps from the Hungarian playbook can not be replicated here . They started with Orb ? n 's party winning a legislative super-majority , which it used to rewrite the Hungarian constitution . In our sclerotic two-party system , it 's become nearly impossible for either party to sustain a long-standing majority ; and , even if Trumpists held super-majorities in both houses of Congress , this would n't be enough to amend the Constitution . " All those veto points in our system , by making it so hard to get anything done , may have helped bring about this autocratic moment , " Jake Grumbach , a public-policy professor at U.C. Berkeley , told me . " Now that there is an autocratic threat in the executive branch , though , I have to say , I 'm glad those checks exist . " For years , Samuel Moyn , a historian at Yale , argued that liberals should stop inflating Trump into an all-powerful cartoon villain -- that he was a weak President , not an imminent fascist threat . But in March , after the disappearance of the Columbia student activist Mahmoud Khalil , Moyn applied the F-word to Trump for the first time . Still , he insisted , " Even at the most alarming and dangerous moments , politics is still politics . " All talk of playbooks aside , an autocratic breakthrough is not something that any leader can order up at will , by following the same ten easy steps . <p> In 2002 , Levitsky and another co-author , the political scientist Lucan Way , wrote a paper called " Elections Without Democracy : The Rise of Competitive Authoritarianism . " Way recently told me , " When people would predict , ' America will turn into Hungary , ' I would roll my eyes . But , boy , have I been humbled . " This February , Way and Levitsky published a piece in Foreign Affairs . " Democracy survived Trump 's first term because he had no experience , plan , or team , " they wrote . " U.S. democracy will likely break down during the second Trump administration , in the sense that it will cease to meet standard criteria for liberal democracy . " What Americans are living through now may feel basically normal , Levitsky told me -- " Trump has n't brought out the tanks . Schumer 's not in prison " -- but , he said , this is the way it often feels , even after things have already spun out of control . When I spoke to Way , he mentioned the capitulation of top law firms ( " disastrous " ) , and the shambolic response from Democratic Party leaders ( " utterly depressing " ) . Trump recently told NBC News that he was considering staying in office for more than four years , then clarified that he was " not joking . " Way would n't even rule out the possibility that he might succeed . " Right now , " he said , " I think the U.S. is no longer a democracy . " He meant that we were seeing democratic backsliding , not a totalitarian dystopia . Still , when he said those words , I felt the way Zoltan Mikl ? si must have felt a decade ago . The conclusion sounded extreme , even if I could n't entirely refute it . <p> One paradox of strongmen like Bukele and Modi is that their anti-democratic maneuvers have made them genuinely popular . Break enough bureaucratic logjams , through either ingenuity or thuggish intimidation , and people may celebrate you as a man of action . It 's too early to tell whether Trump 's frenetic approach will be good or bad for his approval rating , but it is impossible to deny that he has been a man of action . The central tenet of competitive authoritarianism , though , is that an autocrat , even one who has already stacked the deck , can still lose . In Poland , the Law and Justice party entrenched its power , following the Hungarian model -- but it pushed too far , notably with a series of unpopular anti-abortion measures , and , in 2023 , lost its majority . In Brazil , in 2022 , Jair Bolsonaro , the " Trump of the tropics , " tried to rig his own re ? lection , but all his efforts failed , and he will soon stand trial for conspiracy to overthrow the government . Rodrigo Duterte , of the Philippines , who once seemed invincible , was arrested in March and brought to The Hague . There will be elections in Hungary next year , and Orb ? n , for the first time in decades , is facing a formidable challenger . Right now , the polls are tied . <p> Nothing in politics is permanent , and nothing is inevitable . The scholar Timothy Snyder warns against " anticipatory obedience " to tyranny , and fatalism can be its own form of capitulation . Even a gutted democracy can always come back from the dead . " In that sense , ' How Democracies Die ' is actually a terrible metaphor , " Levitsky told me . " Everything is reversible . " In these frantic days , he sounds like both a Cassandra and a Pollyanna , sometimes simultaneously . " We are not El Salvador , and we are not Hungary , " he said . " We spent centuries , as a society , building up democratic muscle , and we still have a lot of that muscle left . I just keep waiting for someone to use it . " <p> When a graduate student whom I 'll call No ? mi moved to the U.S. , in 2018 , she thought it would be a refuge from what was happening in her native Hungary . She had read enough history to understand that America was n't perfect . " I knew about the McCarthy era , and the tensions after 9/11 , " she said . " But all the things you hear about the First Amendment and the legal protections for speech -- somehow I still thought that meant something . " She is a Ph.D . student living in New York . Although she has a green card , she asked me not to use her name ; if the State Department tries to kick students out , university officals may not be able to protect them . Her grandfather has late-stage cancer , and she is n't sure she 'll be able to visit him in Hungary before he dies . " I told my partner , ' I 'm not a criminal , I 'm not even an activist -- why should n't I go ? ' " But her partner sent her news article after news article : a German green-card holder arrested at Logan Airport and sent to a detention facility ; a French scientist denied entry after anti-Trump messages were discovered on his phone . For now , No ? mi is " frozen in place . Scared here , but also scared to leave . " She 's already considering where she will go next , if she has to go . <p> Last month , when a newspaper published a photo of a campus protest , an international student appeared in the background . She was n't there as a protester -- she was just walking by -- but knowing that her face was visible in the photo caused her to go into hiding for two weeks . I heard about another student , a Palestinian with a green card , who had n't left his apartment since March 8th , the night Mahmoud Khalil was taken ; his friends were bringing him food , and he was using light-therapy lamps to regulate his sleep . A Ph.D . student whom I 'll call Divya told me that she left India in part because of academic repression under the Modi government , and she now lives in New York on an F-1 visa . Some of her friends , she said , " wo n't use credit cards , in case they 're being tracked . " Among her friends who teach undergraduates , she added , " the new fear is that if you have a student who 's a citizen , and they do n't like what you say in class , maybe they 'll report you and get you deported . " Meanwhile , her neighbors go about their lives -- shopping at Whole Foods , picking up the dry cleaning , then going home to catch up on the news and curse the latest Trump outrage , as if it were all happening somewhere else . For most of us , the sun still rises in the morning and sets in the evening , even as some of us now have to use L.E.D. lamps to substitute for natural light . <p> Turkuler Isiksel , the political theorist at Columbia , met me in her office , where the Declaration of the Rights of Man was framed on a wall . On her desk was a plush dog adapted from a meme ( the one where the dog sits in a burning room saying , " This is fine " ) . Isiksel grew up in Turkey , then left to study in the U.K. , the U.S. , and Italy before becoming a tenured professor and a naturalized American citizen . She told me , " I really thought , as a constitutional theorist , that no place has fully solved the problem of checking power and letting the people rule , but at least America has it figured out better than anywhere else . But maybe Madison was right -- maybe constitutions really are just parchment barriers . " She considered saying something more pointed , but held her tongue -- she had an upcoming flight to Istanbul , and she did n't want to cause unnecessary trouble for herself or her family . I asked whether she meant trouble in Turkey , or trouble back in the U.S. " I do n't even know at this point , " she said . ?
