<p> The Israeli military eliminated Hamas operations head in Lebanon , Mohammed Shaheen , in a precise strike on a car in Sidon . The strike occurred ahead of a ceasefire agreement . Shaheen was involved in planning terror attacks , funded by Iran . The incident is part of ongoing conflicts involving Hezbollah and Palestinian groups amidst Israel 's planned withdrawal from Lebanon . <p> The Israeli military eliminated Hamas ' operations department head in Lebanon in a " precise " strike on a car in the coastal Lebanese city of Sidon on Monday- on eve of ceasefire agreement . The military operation targeted Mohammed Shaheen , who was eliminated after recently planning terror attacks , directed and funded by Iran , according to the Israel Defence Forces . " Shaheen was a significant source of knowledge within the organisation and was involved throughout the war with advancing various terror attacks , including rocket fire on the Israeli home front , " the IDF stated . <p> Hamas subsequently acknowledged Shaheen 's death in the strike , identifying him as a commander.The Palestinian organisation Hamas , which controls Gaza @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hezbollah . Iran supports both organisations.The attack occurred one day before Israel 's planned withdrawal from most Lebanese territories under the November 27 ceasefire agreement with Hezbollah , though it will maintain five strategic positions.Lebanese President Joseph Aoun expressed concern on Monday about Israel 's complete withdrawal by Tuesday , stating that " the sponsors of the deal should bear their responsibility to assist us . " Both sides have claimed breaches of the agreement . The terms allow Israel to respond to immediate threats from the Iran-supported group.Israel conducted strikes on Hezbollah military installations in Lebanon on Sunday , with Lebanese media reporting three operations in the eastern region.Lebanon 's National News Agency reported that Israeli gunfire killed a woman in Hula border town on Sunday as residents attempted to return to villages under IDF presence.On Saturday , Israel targeted a senior Hezbollah aerial unit member , with Lebanese media confirming two casualties from an Israeli strike in the south.Israel 's September invasion of Lebanon aimed to counter the group 's continuous rocket attacks , which had displaced 60,000 Israeli northern residents . Hezbollah 's daily attacks began unprovoked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on southern Israel that resulted in 1,200 deaths and 251 hostages , initiating the Gaza conflict . <h> About the Author <p> At TOI World Desk , our dedicated team of seasoned journalists and passionate writers tirelessly sifts through the vast tapestry of global events to bring you the latest news and diverse perspectives round the clock . With an unwavering commitment to accuracy , depth , and timeliness , we strive to keep you informed about the ever-evolving world , delivering a nuanced understanding of international affairs to our readers . Join us on a journey across continents as we unravel the stories that shape our interconnected world .
