<h> Blinken to visit Mideast for talks amid regional tensions <p> US Secretary of State Antony Blinken looks on as he receives the Royal Order of the Polar Star ahead of the start of the 31st Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe ( OSCE ) Ministerial summit in Ta'Qali , Malta on Thursday , December 5 , 2024 . ( Alberto Pizzoli/Pool Photo via AP ) <p> US Secretary of State Antony Blinken is set to embark on his 12th trip to the Middle East since the onset of the Israel-Hamas conflict last year . <p> This visit marks his first since Syrian President Bashar Assad 's recent departure to Russia , an event that has heightened regional uncertainty . <p> Blinken 's two-day itinerary will include stops in Jordan and Turkey , with discussions centered on Syria and broader efforts to end the Gaza conflict that has ravaged the Palestinian territory since October 2023 . <p> According to the State Department , Blinken will meet Jordanian leaders , including King Abdullah II , in Aqaba on Thursday before heading to Ankara for talks with Turkish officials on Friday . Additional regional visits remain a possibility . <p> The Biden administration is intensifying its diplomatic engagement in the Middle East as it navigates complex crises during its final weeks in office . <p> President-elect Donald Trump has stated that the US should avoid entanglement in Syria , while the Biden administration continues to conduct airstrikes and maintain a military presence to prevent an Islamic State resurgence amid Syria 's ongoing turmoil . <p> State Department spokesperson Matthew Miller emphasized that Blinken 's visit aims to reaffirm US support for a Syrian-led transition to a representative and accountable government . <p> Blinken has signaled US willingness to back a new Syrian government meeting these conditions . While American officials maintain the foreign terrorist organization designation of Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , once linked to al-Qaida , they have not ruled out dialogue with its members . <p> Ahead of his trip , Blinken spoke with the foreign ministers of Egypt , Jordan , Qatar and the UAE to reinforce US positions on Syria and stress the urgency of a Gaza ceasefire . The US continues to push for the release of hostages taken by Hamas and a framework for post-war governance , security , and reconstruction in Gaza . <p> Blinken 's visit follows Syrian President Assad 's flight to Russia over the weekend . Meanwhile , other senior US officials , including National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan and Army Gen Erik Kurilla are engaging with leaders across the region . <p> Trump 's designated Middle East envoy , Stephen Witkoff , is also active in the region as the US prepares for a presidential transition .
