<p> Chief Adviser Prof Muhammad Yunus on Thursday said it is crucial to move beyond humanitarian interventions and shift focus towards the reconstruction of Gaza , the West Bank , and Lebanon . <p> " Let D-8 therefore kickstart a process , with an approximate estimation of the costs of reconstruction in Palestine and Lebanon , " he said , adding that they can thereon press on formulation of international strategies for resource mobilization . <p> The Chief Adviser made the remarks while delivering the speech during a special session on humanitarian crisis and reconstruction challenges in Gaza and Lebanon on the sidelines of the D-8 Summit . <p> The United Nations has cautioned that removing the 40 million tonnes of rubble left in the wake of Israel 's bombardment could take at least 15 years , Dr Yunus said . <p> " We understand that the rubble may contain over 10,000 bodies of the deceased . And this is also contaminated with asbestos , " he said . <p> Dr Yunus said Bangladesh commends the government of Egypt for convening this special session . <p> " We gather at a time when Israeli aggression and the 14-month long brutal genocide against the Palestinian people continue unabated in the occupied Gaza Strip and the West Bank . Words should suffice little , " he said . <p> To say the least , Dr Yunus said , they are in utter dismay at Israel 's blatant disregard to long-held international norms , laws and conventions . <p> " The ways the hostilities in Lebanon are spreading , there are heightened fears of further escalation . This can lend to dire and long-term consequences for peace and stability across the region , impacting global society and polity , not just economy , " he said . <p> From Cairo , Dr Yunus said , they must voice their unity and unwavering commitment , in solidarity with their Palestinian brothers and sisters , at this existential time in their history . <p> " Throughout our history , Bangladesh has stood firmly in support of the Palestinian cause . We consistently condemned the illegal occupation and the violent repression carried out by Israel , " said the Chief Adviser . <p> He said they remain steadfast in advocating a just and lasting solution , through a two-State solution to the crisis , with Israel and Palestine living side by side in peace and harmony . " Palestine has to emerge as a fully independent and viable State based on the pre-1967 borders , with East Jerusalem as its capital , " Dr Yunus said . <p> " This is what we also articulated in detail before the International Court of Justice this February as the Court finally called Israel 's occupation illegal , in its Advisory Opinion , " he added . <p> Bangladeshis are profoundly concerned over the current state of affairs and Palestinians are no expendable people , Dr Yunus said . " Every Palestinian life matters . " <p> The Chief Adviser said it is not an issue that merely concerns the Muslims . " Rather , a universal cause where human dignity is tested . It is about universal pledge to protect the vulnerable . It is indeed our moral duty to stand by them , resolutely . " <p> There are around six million Bangladeshi migrant workers and expatriate professionals , across the region , including in Lebanon who have been making significant contributions to the development of the countries across the Middle East , Dr Yunus said . <p> " Their safety and security are at risk . We call upon all actors and stakeholders , indeed beyond the region , to take decisive and collective actions to end the brutalities unleashed by the Israeli forces , " he said . <p> The massacres in Gaza , the West Bank , and Lebanon , are clear violations of international law , and constitute war crimes . <p> " Those responsible must account . That is why , last November , Bangladesh stood up at the International Criminal Court asking for expeditious investigations into the heinous crimes against humanity , " Dr Yunus said . <p> Such actions on accountability can deter the perpetrators against further and future atrocities , he said .
