<h> The Print Edition <p> A new age of American anti-Semitism , a breakthrough cystic-fibrosis treatment , Jodie Foster , and a " secret " Gospel . Plus a letter from Arthur Miller , the radio squirrels of Point Reyes , economic pessimism , Kara Swisher , animals having fun , new fiction by Jared Lemus , and more.View Magazine <p> Updated at 1:35 p.m . ET on March 13 , 2024 . This article was featured in the One Story to Read Today newsletter . Sign up for it here . <h> 1 <p> Stacey Zolt Hara was in her office in downtown San Francisco when a text from her 16-year-old daughter arrived : " I 'm scared , " she wrote . Her classmates at Berkeley High School were preparing to leave their desks and file into the halls , part of a planned " walkout " to protest Israel . Like many Jewish students , she did n't want to participate . It was October 18 , 11 days after the Hamas invasion of southern Israel . <p> Zolt Hara told her daughter to wait in her classroom . She was trying to project calm . A public-relations executive , Zolt Hara had moved her family from Chicago to Berkeley six years earlier , hoping to find a community that shared her progressive values . Her family had developed a deep sense of belonging there . <h> Explore the April 2024 Issue <p> But a moral fervor was sweeping over Berkeley High that morning . Around 10:30 , the walkout began . Jewish parents traded panicked reports from their children . Zolt Hara heard that kids were chanting , " From the river to the sea , Palestine will be free , " a slogan that suggests the elimination of Israel . Rumors spread about other , less coy phrases shouted in the hallways , carrying intimations of violence . Jewish students were said to be in tears . Parents were texting one another ideas about where in the school their children could hide . Zolt Hara placed a call to the dean of students . By her own admission , she was hysterical . She says the dean hung up on her . <p> By the early afternoon the walkout was over , but Zolt Hara and other Jewish parents worried that it was a prelude to something worse . They joined Google Groups and WhatsApp chains so they could share information . Zolt Hara organized a petition , pleading with the school district to take anti-Semitism more seriously . It quickly received more than 1,300 signatures . <p> Most worrying was what parents kept hearing about teachers , both in Berkeley and in the surrounding school districts . They seemed to be using their classrooms to mold students into advocates for a maximalist vision of Palestine . A group of activists within the Oakland Education Association , that city 's teachers ' union , sponsored a " teach-in . " A video trumpeting the event urged : " Apply your labor power to show solidarity with the Palestinian people . " An estimated 70 teachers set aside their normal curriculum to fix students ' attention on Gaza . <p> Even classes with no discernible connection to international affairs joined the teach-in . Its centerpiece was a webinar titled " From Gaza to Oakland : How Does the Issue Connect to Us ? , " in which local activists implored the kids to join them on the streets . They told the students -- in a predominantly Black and Latino school district -- that the Israeli military works hand in glove with American police forces , sharing tips and tactics . " Repression there ends up cycling back to repression here , " an activist named Anton explained . Elementary-school teachers , whose students were too young for the webinar , were given a list of books to use in their classes . One of them , Handala 's Return , described how a " group of bullies called Zionists wanted our land so they stole it by force and hurt many people . " <p> The same zeal was gripping schools in Berkeley . Zolt Hara learned from another parent about an ethnic-studies class in which the teacher had described the slaughter of some Israelis on October 7 as the result of friendly fire . She saw a disturbing image that another teacher had presented in an art class , of a fist breaking through a Star of David . ( Officials at Berkeley High School did not respond to requests for comment . ) In her son 's middle school , there were signs on classroom walls that read Teach Palestine . <p> Zolt Hara did n't need to imagine how kids might respond to these lessons . She heard about incidents at her children 's schools . One kid walked up to a Jewish student playing what he called a " Nazi salute song " on his phone . Another said something in German and then added , " I do n't like your people . " A Manichaean view of the conflict even filtered down to the lowest grades in Berkeley . According to one parent complaint to the principal of Washington Elementary School , a second grader suggested that students divide into Israeli and Palestinian " teams , " and another announced that Palestinians could n't be friends with Jews . <p> On November 17 , the middle school that Zolt Hara 's son attends staged its own walkout . Zolt Hara was relieved that her son was traveling for a family event that day . But she heard about video of the protest , recorded on a parent 's phone . I tracked down the footage and watched it myself . " Are you Jewish ? " one mop-haired tween asks another , seemingly unaware of any adult presence . " No way , " the second kid replies . " I fucking hate them . " Another blurts , " Kill Israel . " A student laughingly attempts to start a chant of " KKK . " <p> Graffiti in Oakland , January 2024 ( Franklin Foer ) <p> On a damp morning this winter , I joined about 40 kids assembled in a classroom at a public high school in the East Bay for a meeting of the Jewish Student Union . I promised that I would n't identify their school in the hopes that they might speak freely , without fear of retribution from teachers or peers . The first boy to raise his hand proudly announced that he supported a cease-fire . But as the conversation progressed , students began to recall how painful their school 's walkout had felt . Their classmates had left them alone with teachers , who they suspected would think less of them for having stayed put . At every stop in their education in this progressive community , they had learned about a world divided between oppressors and the oppressed -- and now they felt that they were being accused of being the bad guys , despite having nothing to do with events on the other side of the world , and despite the fact that Hamas had initiated the current war by invading Israeli communities and murdering an estimated 1,200 people . <p> At the end of the session a student in a kippah , puffer jacket , and T-shirt pulled me aside . He said he wanted to speak privately , because he did n't want to risk crying in front of his peers . After October 7 , he said , his school life , as a visibly identifiable Jew , had become unbearable . Walking down the halls , kids would shout " Free Palestine " at him . They would make the sound of explosions , as if he were personally responsible for the bombardment of Gaza . They would tell him to pick up pennies . As he was walking into the gym to use one of its courts , a kid told him , " There goes the Jew , taking everyone 's land . " I asked if he 'd ever told any of this to an administrator . " Nothing would change , " he said . Based on how other local authorities had responded to anti-Semitism , I did n't doubt him . <h> 2 <p> Like many American Jews , I once considered anti-Semitism a threat largely emanating from the right . It was Donald Trump who attracted the allegiance of white supremacists and freely borrowed their tropes . A closing ad of his 2016 presidential campaign flashed images of prominent Jews -- Lloyd Blankfein , Janet Yellen , and George Soros -- as it decried global special interests bleeding the people dry . <p> After each incident , my anxiety about the safety of my own family and synagogue would spike , but I consoled myself with the thought that once Trump disappeared from the scene , the explosion of Jew hatred would recede . America would revert to its essential self : the most comfortable homeland in the Jewish diaspora . <p> That reassuring thought required downplaying the anti-Semitism that had begun to appear on the left well before October 7 -- on college campuses , among progressive activists , even on the fringes of the Democratic Party . It required minimizing Representative Ilhan Omar 's insinuation about Jewish control of politics -- " It 's all about the Benjamins baby " -- as an ignorant gaffe . And it meant dismissing intense outbreaks of anti-Zionist harassment by pro-Palestinian demonstrators , which coincided with tensions in the Middle East , as a passing storm . <p> Part of the reason I failed to appreciate the extent of the anti-Semitism on the left is that I assumed its criticisms of the Israeli government were , at bottom , a harsher version of my own . I opposed the proliferation of settlements in the West Bank , the callousness that military occupation required , and the religious zealotry that had begun to infuse the country 's right wing , including its current ruling coalition . <p> In October 2018 , a gunman killed 11 people and wounded six at the Tree of Life synagogue in Pittsburgh , Pennsylvania . ( Brendan Smialowski / AFP/ Getty ) <p> Such criticisms were not those of a dissident -- the majority of American Jews share them . The Palestinian leadership has a long record of abject obstructionism , historical denialism , and violent irredentism , but American Jews heap blame on recalcitrant right-wing Israeli governments , too . Polling by the Pew Research Center in 2020 found that only one in three American Jews said they felt that the Israeli government was " sincere " in its pursuit of peace . But whatever criticism American Jews leveled against Israel , the anger was born of love . Eight in 10 described Israel as either " essential " or " important " to their Jewish identity . And they still held out hope for peace . In that same poll , 63 percent of American Jews said they considered a two-state solution plausible . Jews were , in fact , more likely than the overall U.S. population to believe in the possibility of peaceful coexistence with an independent Palestine . <p> Among the brutal epiphanies of October 7 was this : A disconcertingly large number of Israel 's critics on the left did not share that vision of peaceful coexistence , or believe Jews had a right to a nation of their own . After Hamas 's rampage of rape , kidnapping , and murder , a history professor at Cornell named Russell Rickford said Palestinians were understandably " exhilarated by this challenge to the monopoly of violence . " He added , " I was exhilarated . " A student at the same university was arrested and charged with posting online threats about slitting the throats of Jewish males and strafing the kosher dining hall with gunfire . In Philadelphia , a mob descended on a falafel restaurant , chanting about the Israeli American co-owner 's complicity in genocide . Over the three-month period following the Hamas attacks , the Anti-Defamation League recorded 56 episodes of physical violence targeting Jews and 1,347 incidents of harassment . That 13-week span contained more anti-Semitic incidents than the entirety of 2021 -- at the time the worst year since the ADL had begun keeping count , in 1979 . <p> I do n't want to dismiss the anger that the left feels about the terrible human cost of the Israeli counterinvasion of Gaza , or denounce criticism of Israel as inherently anti-Semitic -- especially because I share some of those criticisms . Nor do I believe that anti-Zionist is a term that should be considered axiomatically interchangeable with anti-Semite . The elimination of Israel , in my opinion , would be a profound catastrophe for the Jewish people . But I have read idealistic critics of Israel , such as the late historian Tony Judt , who imagined that it could be replaced by a binational state , where Jews and Palestinians live side by side under one democratic government . That strikes me as naive in the extreme -- especially after the Hamas pogrom of October 7 -- and very likely the end of Jewish existence in the Levant . But not everything that is terrible for the Jews is anti-Semitic . <p> Anti-Semitism is a mental habit , deeply embedded in Christian and Muslim thinking , stretching back at least as far as the accusation that the Jews murdered the son of God . It 's a tendency to fixate on Jews , to place them at the center of the narrative , overstating their role in society and describing them as the root cause of any unwanted phenomena -- a centrality that seems strange , given that Jews constitute about 0.2 percent of the global population . Though it shape-shifts over time , anti-Semitism returns to the same essential complaint : that Jews are cunning , bloodthirsty , and mad for power . Anti-Zionism often takes a similar form : the dehumanization , the unilateral casting of blame , and the fetishizing of Jewish villainy . <p> Liberal Jews once celebrated Israel as the lone democracy in a distinctly undemocratic region . Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's coalition of theocrats and messianists seems bent on shredding the basis for that claim . But many governments in the world share these undesirable traits . Still , no one calls for the eradication of Hungary or El Salvador or India . No one defaces Chinese restaurants in San Francisco because Beijing imprisons Uyghurs in concentration camps and occupies Tibet . <p> The anti-Zionism that has flourished on the left in recent years does n't stop with calls for an end to the occupation of the West Bank . It espouses a blithe desire to eliminate the world 's only Jewish-majority nation , valorizes the homicidal campaign against its existence , and seeks to hold members of the Jewish diaspora to account for the sins of a country they do n't live in and for a government they did n't elect . In so doing , this faction of the left places itself in the terrible lineage of attempts to erase Jewry -- and , in turn , stirs ancient and not-so-ancient existential fears . <p> Nowhere is this more fully on display than in the Bay Area . After October 7 , protesters flooded city-council meetings , demanding cease-fire resolutions and rejecting any attempt to include clauses condemning Hamas for the rape and murder of Jews . One viral video compiled enraged citizen comments at an Oakland city-council meeting . These citizens were n't just showing solidarity for the people of Gaza , but angrily amplifying wild conspiracy theories . One woman declared , in the style of a 9/11 truther , that " Israel murdered their own people on October 7 . " Another , in the manner of a Holocaust denier , described the events of that day as a " fabricated narrative . " <p> Impassioned support for the Palestinian cause metastasized into the hatred of Jews . Anti-Semitism has become part of the landscape . In 2021 , a community space in San Francisco 's Mission neighborhood , owned by a progressive gay Jewish activist , was defaced with messages including Zionist pigz . After October 7 , the windows of Smitten Ice Cream , owned by a Jewish woman , were smashed and spray-painted with the words Out the Mission . <p> In December 2023 , a large menorah on public display in Oakland , California , was destroyed . ( Jane Tyska / Digital First Media / East Bay Times / Getty ) <p> During Hanukkah , a menorah sponsored by Chabad Oakland and perched on the shore of Lake Merritt , in the center of the city , was torn apart by its branches and hurled into the water , replaced by graffiti reading your org is dying , we 're gon na find you , you 're on fucking alert . Oakland Public Works quickly painted over the message and other anti-Semitic graffiti . But when I walked the trail around the lake several weeks after Hanukkah , I found a weathered metal box , built to display a work of public art . On its side was a laminated message titled " The World We Wish to See . " What followed was a lyrical vision of liberation that imagined a future in which " all beings are treated with dignity . " But whatever display had once existed in the box had been removed . What was left were the etched words Zionist KILLER . <p> In the hatred that I witnessed in the Bay Area , and that has been evident on college campuses and in progressive activist circles nationwide , I 've come to see left-wing anti-Semitism as characterized by many of the same violent delusions as the right-wing strain . This is not an accident of history . Though right- and left-wing anti-Semitism may have emerged in different ways , for different reasons , both are essentially attacks on an ideal that once dominated American politics , an ideal that American Jews championed and , in an important sense , co-authored . Over the course of the 20th century , Jews invested their faith in a distinct strain of liberalism that combined robust civil liberties , the protection of minority rights , and an ethos of cultural pluralism . They embraced this brand of liberalism because it was good for America -- and good for the Jews . It was their fervent hope that liberalism would inoculate America against the world 's oldest hatred . <p> For several generations , it worked . Liberalism helped unleash a Golden Age of American Jewry , an unprecedented period of safety , prosperity , and political influence . Jews , who had once been excluded from the American establishment , became full-fledged members of it . And remarkably , they achieved power by and large without having to abandon their identity . In faculty lounges and television writers ' rooms , in small magazines and big publishing houses , they infused the wider culture with that identity . Their anxieties became American anxieties . Their dreams became American dreams . <p> But that era is drawing to a close . America 's ascendant political movements -- MAGA on one side , the illiberal left on the other -- would demolish the last pillars of the consensus that Jews helped establish . They regard concepts such as tolerance , fairness , meritocracy , and cosmopolitanism as pernicious shams . The Golden Age of American Jewry has given way to a golden age of conspiracy , reckless hyperbole , and political violence , all tendencies inimical to the democratic temperament . Extremist thought and mob behavior have never been good for Jews . And what 's bad for Jews , it can be argued , is bad for America . <h> 3 <p> I grew up at the apex of the Golden Age . The nation 's sartorial aesthetic was the invention of Ralph Lifshitz , an alumnus of the Manhattan Talmudical Academy before he became the denim-clad Ralph Lauren . The national authority on sex was a diminutive bubbe , Dr. Ruth . Schoolkids in Indiana read Anne Frank 's diary . The Holocaust memoirist Elie Wiesel appeared on the nightly news as an arbiter of public morality . The most-watched television show was Seinfeld . Even Gentiles knew the words to Adam Sandler 's " The Chanukah Song , " which earned a place in the canon of festive music annually played on FM radio . Jews accounted for roughly 2 percent of the nation 's population at the time , but I 'd estimate that my undergraduate class at Columbia University was one-third Jewish ; soon , a third of the justices on the Supreme Court would be Jewish as well . In 2000 , Joe Lieberman , a Shabbat-observant Jew with a wife named Hadassah , fell 537 votes short of becoming vice president . None of these occurrences sparked a backlash worthy of note . <p> By the mid- ' 90s , experts had declared the end of anti-Semitism . It persisted , of course , in the dark corners of American political culture -- in the wacky cosmology of the Nation of Islam and in the malevolent rantings of David Duke , the ubiquitous ex-Klansman -- but that proved the point . The only Jew haters to be found were hopelessly fringe ; anti-Semitism disappeared from polite conversation . Leonard Dinnerstein , a historian who devoted his life 's work to studying anti-Semitism , concluded his magnum opus , published in 1994 , with the admission that his scholarly obsession was becoming a relic : " It has declined in potency and will continue to do so for the foreseeable future . " <p> That last sentence was an expression of triumphalism , rendered in the spirit of the times . Like the end of history , the end of anti-Semitism was a post -- Cold War reverie , a naive declaration of a golden age without end . American Jews now worried that they might become too accepted . The great anxiety of the fin de si ? cle was intermarriage . <p> The threat of assimilation had frightened the Orthodox Jews who came to the United States during the great wave of immigration in the last decades of the 19th century . Fathers who had fled the Pale of Settlement feared that their sons would trade ancestral traditions for the allure of American culture . ( A quite popular , very American musical is energized by these anxieties . ) One of those sons , however , made it his intellectual project to find a way for Jews to enjoy the bounties of American society without having to fully abandon their Jewishness . <p> Born in Silesia in 1882 , the eldest of eight , Horace Kallen had a preordained calling : to become a rabbi like his father . But a Boston truant officer forced him , against his parents ' wishes , to attend a secular grammar school . This set him on the path to Harvard , where he paid his way by reading meters for the Dorchester Gaslight Company . Kallen never felt at ease with patrician classmates like Franklin D. Roosevelt , though the philosopher William James embraced him as a prot ? g ? . <p> Kallen 's breakthrough came in the course of an argument with another Jew . In 1908 , the British-born playwright Israel Zangwill had a hit called The Melting-Pot , a melodrama about a pogrom survivor who sets out to marry a Christian woman in the hopes that he will no longer be haunted by his identity . This vision of assimilation was a warmed-over version of the devil 's bargain that Western Europeans had offered Jews ever since Napoleon : In exchange for the rights of citizenship , Jews would have to give up their distinctive identity . <p> Kallen did n't want to surrender his identity . He was n't religious , but he had read Spinoza and devoured the works of the early Zionist thinkers . At Harvard , he co-founded the Menorah Society , a Jewish affinity group . His rebuttal to Zangwill took the form of unabashed patriotism . In essays that were intellectual bombshells at the time , Kallen extolled the mongrel nature of American society , the phenomenon known as hyphenation . Harvard 's Brahmin elite believed that newcomers must assimilate in full , commit to what they called " 100 percent Americanism . " But to Kallen , the hyphen was the essence of democracy . He described America as a " symphony of civilization , " an intermingling of cultures that resulted in a society far more dynamic than most of the countries back in the Old World . The genius of America was that it did n't coerce any minority group into abandoning its marks of difference . <p> Horace Kallen , who encouraged American Jews to embrace their adopted country without sacrificing their Jewish identity ( Courtesy of the Jacob Rader Marcus Center of the American Jewish Archives , Cincinnati , Ohio ) <p> That argument was idealistic , though also self-interested . Kallen 's polemics implicitly targeted the Protestant monopoly controlling academia , politics , and every other corner of the establishment , which reverted to desperate measures to block the ascent of Jews , imposing quotas at universities and restrictive housing covenants in well-to-do neighborhoods . His ideas were emblematic of an emerging strain of Jewish political philosophy , a set of arguments that would define American Jewry for generations . <p> The sons and daughters of immigrants may have dabbled in socialism , but in the 1930s and ' 40s , liberalism became the house politics of the Jewish people . Walter Lippmann , a descendant of German Jews , first used the term liberal in the American context , to describe a new center-left vision of the state that was neither socialist nor laissez-faire . Louis Brandeis , the first Jewish justice on the Supreme Court , conceptualized a new , expansive vision of civil liberties . Lillian Wald and Henry Moskowitz co-founded the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People , in the belief that all minorities deserved the same protections . Jews became enthusiastic supporters of the New Deal , which staved off radical movements on the left and the right that tended to hunt for Jewish scapegoats . As a Yiddish joke went , Jewish theology consisted of die velt ( " this world " ) , yene velt ( " the world to come " ) , and Roosevelt . <p> The historian Marc Dollinger titled his 2000 narrative of Jewish liberalism Quest for Inclusion . Jews set out to achieve that goal procedurally -- opposing prayer in public school , knocking down discriminatory housing laws , establishing new fair-employment rules . But it was also a project of mythmaking and dream-casting . Widely read mid-century intellectuals such as Louis Hartz , Daniel Boorstin , and Max Lerner wrote books reimagining America as the home of a benevolent centrism -- tolerant , cosmopolitan , unique in the history of nations . <p> Reality began to resemble the myth : In the years following World War II -- and especially as the world began to comprehend the extent of the Nazi genocide -- a liberal consensus took hold , and anti-Semitism receded . After Auschwitz , even three-martini Jewish jokes at the country club felt tinged by the horrors . In 1937 , the American edition of Roget 's Thesaurus had listed cunning , rich , extortioner , and heretic as synonyms for Jew . At that time , nearly half of Americans said Jews were less honest in business than others . By 1964 , only 28 percent agreed with that assessment . It became clich ? to refer to America as a " Judeo-Christian nation . " Quotas at universities fell to the side . <p> As anti-Semitism faded , American Jewish civilization exploded in a rush of creativity . For a time , the great Jewish novel -- books by Saul Bellow , Philip Roth , Norman Mailer , Joseph Heller , and Bernard Malamud , inflected with Yiddish and references to pickled herring -- was the great American novel . Under the influence of Lenny Bruce , Sid Caesar , Mel Brooks , Elaine May , Gilda Radner , Woody Allen , and many others , American comedy appropriated the Jewish joke , and the ironic sensibility contained within , as its own . <p> During the Golden Age , Jews created new genres of Americana , and in turn remade America 's image of itself , through the idealized vision of the heartland found in Rodgers and Hammerstein 's Oklahoma ! ; the folk revival popularized by Bob Dylan , Art Garfunkel , and Paul Simon ; the movies mythologizing the decency of the American Everyman produced by David O. Selznick , Louis B. Mayer , and Jack Warner . ( To say that " the Jews " run Hollywood is conspiratorial ; to say that Jews founded it is factual . ) Only in America could Jews -- Irving Berlin , George Wyle , Sammy Cahn -- write the Christmas songbook . <p> It was n't just mass culture . The New York Intellectuals , a group with a name as euphemistic as it sounds , acquired a priestly authority in the realm of aesthetics and political ideas , and included the likes of Alfred Kazin , Clement Greenberg , Irving Howe , and Susan Sontag . Betty Friedan , Bella Abzug , and Ruth Bader Ginsburg ushered second-wave feminism into the world . Jews became the prophetic face of American science ( J. Robert Oppenheimer ) and the salvific one of American medicine ( Jonas Salk ) . The intellectual rewards of Jewish liberation could be measured in medals : Approximately 15 percent of all Nobel Prize winners are American Jews . <p> In the Golden Age , Jews in America embraced Israel . Enjoying their political and cultural ascendance , they looked to the new Jewish state not as a necessary refuge -- they were more than comfortable on the Upper West Side and in Squirrel Hill and Brentwood -- but as a powerful rebuttal to the old stereotypes about Jewish weakness , especially after the Israeli military 's victory in the Six-Day War of 1967 . As The New York Times ' Thomas Friedman has put it , American Jews " said to themselves , ' My God , look who we are ! We have power ! We do not fit the Shylock image , we are ace pilots ; we are not the cowering timid Jews who get sand kicked in their faces , we are tank commanders . ' ? " <p> A now-obscure cultural event captures , for me , this newfound sense of self and self-confidence . In 1978 , ABC aired The Stars Salute Israel at 30 , a kitschy prime-time variety show filmed in front of a full house at the Dorothy Chandler Pavilion , in Los Angeles , the same venue that hosted the Oscars . Like the Oscars , it featured an A-list slate : Barry Manilow in a white suit , surrounded by backup singers in sequins ; Henry Winkler , the Fonz himself , playing a rough-hewn Israeli in a sketch ; and , of course , Sammy Davis Jr . Near the conclusion , Barbra Streisand emerged in a white gown to talk via remote hookup with Golda Meir as a camera filmed the former prime minister in a book-filled room in Israel -- the two most celebrated Jewish women of the century kibitzing on American TV . <p> In the early decades of Hollywood , Jewish stars had hidden behind stage names -- Emanuel Goldenberg performed as Edward G. Robinson ; Issur Danielovitch transformed himself into Kirk Douglas . Streisand had also changed her name , dropping the a from Barbara , but that was an instance of a diva 's bravado , not a sop to the goyim . What made her stardom so emblematic of the Golden Age was that she never allowed herself to be bullied into suppressing her Jewish identity . Her crowning achievement was Yentl , an adaptation of an Isaac Bashevis Singer short story . For the grand finale of the ABC telecast , Streisand sang " Hatikvah , " the Israeli national anthem , for 18.7 million viewers . " The good feelings and the love will always remain , " she told them . <h> 4 <p> The Jewish vacation from history ended on September 11 , 2001 . It did n't seem that way at the time . But the terror attacks opened an era of perpetual crisis , which became fertile soil where the hatred of Jews took root . Though Osama bin Laden claimed credit for the plot , that did n't stop some people from trying to shift the blame . One theory explained in exquisitely absurd detail how Mossad , the Israeli intelligence service , had toppled the Twin Towers . <p> But there was also a more sophisticated version of this conspiracy theory , one that had a patina of academic respectability . On the left , it became commonplace to fulminate against the neoconservatives , warmongering intellectuals said to be whispering in the ear of the American establishment , urging the invasion of Iraq and war against Iran . <p> This was n't fully untethered from reality : The neocons were a group of largely Jewish think-tank denizens and policy operatives , some of whom held top posts in President George W. Bush 's administration . But the angry talk about neocons also trafficked in dangerous old tropes . It inflated their role in world events and ascribed the worst motives to them . Men like Paul Wolfowitz , the second-highest-ranking official in Bush 's Pentagon , and William Kristol , the editor of The Weekly Standard , were portrayed by critics on the left as bamboozlers undermining the national interest in service of their stealth loyalty to Israel . Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld , for one , took exception to the idea that Jews were pulling the strings of the United States government . " I suppose the implication of that is that the president and the vice president and myself and Colin Powell just fell off a turnip truck to take these jobs , " he said . <p> In 2007 , Stephen Walt and John Mearsheimer , professors at Harvard and the University of Chicago , respectively , spelled out what others implied in The Israel Lobby and U.S. Foreign Policy , a book published by a venerable house , Farrar , Straus and Giroux , that soon arrived on the New York Times best-seller list . This was the opposite of the schmaltzy Streisand tribute -- the Jewish state as not a friend but a villain surreptitiously manipulating American power to further its own ends . <p> One year later , Lehman Brothers , a bank founded in 1850 by the son of a Jewish cattle merchant from Bavaria , collapsed . That news was followed by the revelation that Bernie Madoff had masterminded the largest-known Ponzi scheme in history . Although politicians , on the whole , refrained from casting Jews as the primary culprits of the 2008 financial crisis -- which was , in fact , systemic -- a sizable portion of the public harbored this thought . Stanford University professors conducted a survey that found that nearly a quarter of the country blamed Jews for crashing the global economy . Another 38.4 percent ascribed at least some fault to " the Jews . " <p> In the era of perpetual crisis , a version of this narrative kept recurring : a small elite -- sometimes bankers , sometimes lobbyists -- maliciously exploiting the people . Such narratives helped propel Occupy Wall Street on the left and the Tea Party on the right . This brand of populist revolt had long been the stuff of Jewish nightmares . A fear of the mob suffused masterworks of the Golden Age -- Theodor Adorno 's The Authoritarian Personality , Hannah Arendt 's The Origins of Totalitarianism , Richard Hofstadter 's Anti-intellectualism in American Life . Haunted by the Holocaust and inherited memories of pogroms , these writers warned how a society might fall prey to a demagogue who tapped into prejudice . <p> After 2008 , a version of their prophecy came to pass . The right settled on a Jewish billionaire as their villain of choice : George Soros . An idea took hold , and not just on extremist blogs . The mainstream of the Republican Party seeded the image of Soros as the " shadow puppet master , " in the words of the former Fox News host Bill O'Reilly . In elevating the figure of Soros and invoking him so frequently , Fox News and Republican politicians were also , intentionally or not , drawing on the deeply implanted imagery of the Jewish financier bankrolling the destruction of Christian civilization . <p> In 2018 , Fox News began carrying images of migrant caravans headed from Central America toward Texas , a tide of humanity it described as an " invasion . " Though they had no evidence to bolster the charge , Republican politicians insinuated that the caravans were paid for by Soros . Representative Matt Gaetz tweeted a video of two men handing out cash to a line of Honduran migrants , accompanied by the question " Soros ? " When President Trump was asked about Soros 's role in funding a caravan , a week after a pipe bomb was found in Soros 's mailbox , and days after the Tree of Life shooting , he told reporters , " I would n't be surprised . " <p> Soros was a central character in a new master narrative , much of it adapted from European sources . The spine of the story was borrowed from a French author named Renaud Camus , a socialist turned far-right reactionary who wrote a 2011 book called The Great Replacement , warning that elites intended to diminish the white Christian presence in Europe by flooding the continent with migrants . The Jews were n't a central feature of Camus ' theory . But when elements of the American right embraced it , they inserted Soros and his fellow Jews as the masterminds of the elite plot . This became the basis for the chant " Jews will not replace us . " <p> Jews were the antagonists of the conspiracy theory because they occupied a special place in the bizarre racial hierarchy of American ethno-nationalism . Eric Ward , an activist who is among the most rigorous students of white supremacy , has put it this way : " At the bedrock of the movement is an explicit claim that Jews are a race of their own , and that their ostensible position as White folks in the U.S. represents the greatest trick the devil ever played . " That is , Jews were able to pass as white people , but they were really stealth agents working for the other side of the race war , using immigration to subvert white Christian hegemony . <p> This notion planted itself in the mind of Robert Bowers , a loner who lived in a suburb of Pittsburgh . He became obsessed with the work of HIAS , originally the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society . It was formed in 1902 with the intention of easing the arrival of Jewish refugees fleeing pogroms . The group 's evolution was emblematic of the trajectory of Jewish liberalism . As American Jews settled into a comfortable existence in their new land , HIAS 's mission expanded . It has field offices in more than 20 countries , including a branch on a Greek island to tend to Syrian , Iraqi , and Afghan migrants . On October 19 , 2018 , the Tree of Life synagogue in Pittsburgh was participating in a National Refugee Shabbat , which was the brainchild of HIAS . <p> The event stoked Bowers 's rage . " HIAS likes to bring invaders in that kill our people , " he wrote on Gab , the Christian-nationalist social-media site . Just before he entered the synagogue 's sanctuary , armed with three semiautomatic pistols and an AR-15 rifle , he posted , " Open you Eyes ! It 's the filthy EVIL jews Bringing the Filthy EVIL Muslims into the Country ! ! " <p> A faith in immigration -- the idea of America as a sanctuary for the refugee , the belief that subsequent groups of arrivals would experience the same up-from-the-shtetl trajectory -- was a core tenet of Jewish liberalism . A Jewish poet had written the lines about huddled masses inscribed at the base of the Statue of Liberty . If America was a nation of immigrants , that made Jews quintessential Americans . But now this ideal was the basis for Jews ' vilification . At the Tree of Life synagogue , it was used to justify their slaughter . <h> 5 <p> In the old Jewish theory of American politics , the best defense against the anti-Semitism of the right was a united left : minorities and liberal activists locking arms . When I was young , rabbis and elders reverently told us about the earnest young Jews in chunky glasses who had jumped aboard the Freedom Rides ; about Rabbi Abraham Joshua Heschel , in his unmissable kippah , marching right next to Martin Luther King Jr. ; and about the martyrdom of Andrew Goodman and Michael Schwerner , two Jews who had been murdered alongside James Chaney , a Black Mississippian , for their work registering Black Americans to vote . A coalition of the tolerant pressed the country to live up to its ideals . <p> Later , I would learn that those memories were a bit gauzy . In the late 1960s , former comrades began to quietly , then brusquely , discard this spirit of common cause . Younger activists in the civil-rights movement took a hard turn toward Black Power and dismissed the old liberal theory of change as a melioristic ruse . Anti-war protesters embraced the decolonization struggles of the developing world . After Israel captured the Gaza Strip and the West Bank in 1967 , many came to view the Jewish state as a vile oppressor . ( This was well before right-wing Israeli governments saturated the occupied territories with Jewish settlers . ) Even as Israel 's shocking victory in the Six-Day War , 22 years after the liberation of Auschwitz , filled American Jews with pride and confidence , a meaningful portion of America 's left turned on Israel . <p> The turmoil of the late ' 60s presaged the rupture that has occurred over the past decade or so . A new ideology has taken hold on the left , with a reordered hierarchy of concerns and an even greater skepticism of the old liberal ideals . <p> This rupture was propelled by the menace of Donald Trump . His election jolted his opponents to take emergency measures . The left began describing itself as the Resistance , which implied a more confrontational style than that of Nancy Pelosi floor speeches or Center for American Progress white papers . <p> Even before Trump took office , the Resistance announced a mass protest set to defiantly descend on the capital , what organizers called the Women 's March on Washington . In an early planning meeting , at a New York restaurant , an activist named Vanessa Wruble explained that her Judaism was the motivating force in her political engagement . But Wruble 's autobiographical statement of intent earned her a rebuke . According to Wruble , two members of the inner circle planning the march told her that Jews needed to confront their own history of exploiting Black and brown people . Tablet magazine later reported that Wruble was told that Jews needed to repent for their leading role in the slave trade -- a fallacious charge long circulated by the Nation of Islam . ( The two organizers denied making the reported statements . ) That moment of tension never really subsided , either for Wruble or for the left . <p> When the march 's organizers published their " unity principles , " they emphasized the importance of intersectionality , a theory first introduced by the law professor Kimberl ? W. Crenshaw . It would be insufficient , she argued , for courts to focus their efforts on one narrow target of discrimination when it takes so many forms -- racism , sexism , homophobia -- that tend to reinforce one another . Her analysis , incisive in the context of the law , was never intended to guide social movements . Transposed by activists to the gritty work of coalition-building , it became the basis for a new orthodoxy -- one that was largely indifferent to Jews , and at times outwardly hostile . <p> When the Women 's March listed the various injustices it hoped to conquer on its way to a better world , anti-Semitism was absent . It was a curious omission , given the central role that Jews played in the conspiracies promoted by the MAGA right , and a telling one . Soon after the march , organizers pushed Wruble out of leadership . She later said that anti-Semitism was the reason for her ouster . ( The organizers denied this charge . ) <p> The intersectional left self-consciously rebelled against the liberalism that had animated so much of institutional Judaism , which fought to install civil liberties and civil rights enforced by a disinterested state that would protect every minority equally . This new iteration of the left considered the idea of neutrality -- whether objectivity in journalism or color blindness in the courts -- as a guise for white supremacy . Tolerance , the old keyword of cultural pluralism , was a form of complicity . What the world actually needed was intolerance , a more active confrontation with hatred . In the historian Ibram X. Kendi 's formulation , an individual could choose to be anti-racist or racist , an activist or a collaborator . Or as Linda Sarsour , an activist of Palestinian descent and a co-chair of the Women 's March , put it , " We are not here to be bystanders . " To be a member of this new left in good moral standing , it was necessary to challenge oppression in all its incarnations . And Israel was now definitively an oppressor . <p> The American left had n't always imposed such a litmus test . During the years of the Oslo peace process , groups such as Students for Justice in Palestine had no problem attending events with liberal Zionists . Back then , the debate was over the borders of Israel , not over the fact of its existence . But that peace process collapsed during the last days of the Clinton administration , and whatever good faith had existed in that brief era of summits and handshakes dissipated . Hamas unleashed a wave of suicide bombings in the Second Intifada . And in the aftermath of those deadly attacks , successive right-wing Israeli governments presided over repressive policies in the West Bank and an inhumane blockade of Gaza . <p> Palestinian activists and their allies began the Boycott , Divestment , Sanctions movement , pushing universities to divest from Israel . The new goal was no longer coexistence between Arabs and Jews . It was to turn Israel into an international pariah , to stop working with all Israeli institutions -- not just the military , but also symphonies , theater groups , and universities . In that spirit , it became fashionable for critics of Israel to identify as " anti-Zionist . " <p> Within the Jewish establishment , there 's a tendency to impute anti-Semitism to anyone who describes themselves that way . That has always struck me as intellectually imprecise and , occasionally , as a rhetorical gambit to close down debate . But there 's a reason so many Jews bristle at the thought of anti-Zionism finding a home on the American left : Zionist can start to sound like a synonym for Jew . Zionists stand accused of the same crimes that anti-Semites have attached to Jews since the birth of Christianity ; Jews are portrayed as omnipotent , bloodthirsty baby-killers . Knowing the historical echoes , it 's hard not to worry that the anger might fixate on the Jewish target closest at hand -- which , indeed , it has . <p> In 2014 , dorms at NYU where religiously observant Jews lived received mock eviction notices -- " We reserve the right to destroy all remaining belongings , " read the flyer slipped under doors -- as if intimidating college kids with unknown politics somehow represented a justifiable reprisal for Israeli-government action in the West Bank . The same notices appeared at Emory University , in Atlanta , in 2019 . At the University of Vermont and SUNY New Paltz , groups that helped sexual-assault survivors were accused of purging pro-Israel students from their ranks . " If you do n't support Palestinian liberation you do n't support survivors , " the Vermont group exclaimed . Years before October 7 , students at Tufts University , outside Boston , and the University of Southern California moved to impeach elected Jews in student government over their support for Israel 's existence . This was n't normal politics . It was evidence of bigotry . <p> Among the primary targets of the activists were the Hillel centers present on most college campuses . These centers occasionally coordinate trips to Israel and , on some campuses , sponsor student groups supportive of Israel . Those facts led pro-Palestinian activists to describe Hillel as an arm of the " Israeli war machine . " At SUNY Stony Brook , activists sought to expel Hillel from campus , arguing , " If there were Nazis , white nationalists , and KKK members on campus , would their identity have to be accepted and respected ? " At Rice University , in Texas , an LGBTQ group severed ties with Hillel because it allegedly made students feel unsafe . What made this incident darkly comic is that Hillel could n't be more progressive on issues of sexual freedom . What made it so worrying is that Hillel 's practical purpose is not to defend Israel , but to provide Shabbat dinners and a space for ritual and prayer . To condemn Hillel is to condemn Jewish religious life on campus . <p> As exclusion of Jews became a more regular occurrence , the leadership of the left , and of universities for that matter , had little to say about the problem . To give the most generous explanation : Jews simply did n't fit the analytic framework of the new left . <p> At its core , the intersectional left wanted to smash power structures . In the American context , it would be hard to place Jews among the ranks of the oppressed ; in the Israeli context , they can be cast as the oppressor . Nazi Germany definitively excluded Jews from a category we now call " whiteness . " Today , Jews are treated in sectors of the left as the epitome of whiteness . But any analysis that focuses so relentlessly on the role of privilege , as the left 's does , will be dangerously blind to anti-Semitism , because anti-Semitism itself entails an accusation of privilege . It 's a theory that regards the Jew as an all-powerful figure in society , a position acquired by underhanded means . In the annals of Jewish history , accusations of privilege are the basis for hate , the kindling for pogroms . But universities too often ignored this lesson from the past . Instead , they acted , as the British comedian David Baddiel put it in the title of his prescient book about progressive anti-Semitism , as if " Jews do n't count . " <h> 6 <p> In the death spiral of liberalism , extremism on the right begets extremism on the left , which begets further extremism on the right . To protest the censoriousness of the new progressives , right-wing edgelords and trolls attempted to seize the mantle of liberty . <p> The most powerful of the edgelords was Elon Musk , who purchased Twitter ostensibly to save discourse from the woke mob . To make good on his noble aims , he reversed bans that the platform 's previous regime had imposed on the most vile anti-Semites , including the white nationalist Patrick Howley , the comic Sam Hyde , and the Daily Stormer 's founder , Andrew Anglin . By restoring them to the site , Musk was , in essence , conceding that their words should n't have been considered taboo in the first place . He legitimized their claims of victimhood , the sense that they had been excluded only because they 'd offended the wrong people . <p> In fact , Musk hinted that he shared this conspiratorial view of censorship . In May 2023 , he retweeted an aphorism that he attributed to Voltaire : " To learn who rules over you , simply find out who you are not allowed to criticize . " Those words were actually uttered by a neo-Nazi named Kevin Alfred Strom , not the French philosopher . It should n't have been hard to imagine that the words had dubious origins , because they captured a view of the world in which shadowy forces furtively censor their enemies . <p> Nor was it hard to imagine that those shadowy forces might include the Anti-Defamation League , which relentlessly called attention to the proliferation of Jew hatred on Twitter under Musk 's ownership . Musk threatened to sue the group , accusing it of trying to " kill this platform by falsely accusing it &amp; me of being anti-Semitic . " The Jews , he all but spelled out , were those who could n't be criticized -- which , by the logic of the Strom quote , made them society 's secret masters . <p> Musk was n't alone in this argument . In 2022 , Dave Chappelle used the opening monologue of Saturday Night Live to muse about the cancellation of the hip-hop artist Ye ( formerly Kanye West ) , who had lost a deal with Adidas after he promised , among other things , to go " death con 3 on JEWISH PEOPLE . " Chappelle exuded empathy for Ye . " I do n't want a sneaker deal , because the minute I say something that makes those people mad , they 're going to take my sneakers away ... I hope they do n't take anything away from me , " he said , adding with a smile and a conspiratorial whisper : " Whoever they are . " There was no mystery about his use of pronouns : " I 've been to Hollywood ... It 's a lot of Jews . Like , a lot . " He went on , " You could maybe adopt the delusion that the Jews run show business . " <p> Chappelle practices shock comedy as a form of shock therapy : The authoritarian impositions of the left justify offensive comments , which are a form of defiance . He has taken a genuine problem -- anti-liberalism on the left -- and used it as a pretext for smuggling anti-Semitism into acceptable discourse . <p> That Chappelle and Musk see fit to indulge anti-Semitism in order to protect freedom of speech contains a dark irony . In the 20th century , starting with Louis Brandeis 's dissents on the Supreme Court , Jews stood at the vanguard of the movement to protect " subversive advocacy , " even when it came at their own expense . This could be understood as a defense of the Talmudic tradition of disagreement , what Rabbi David Wolpe calls the " Jewish sacrament " of debate . The movement culminated in Skokie , Illinois , in 1977 , when the ACLU deployed the lawyer David Goldberger to sue to allow neo-Nazis to march through the Chicago suburb , which was filled with Holocaust survivors . The Jewish community was hardly unanimous on the Skokie question -- unanimity would have been inconsistent with the tradition -- but the ACLU position reflected a commitment to free speech officially espoused by major Jewish communal institutions in the postwar years . <p> In the Jewish vision of free speech , open interpretation and endless debate mark the path to knowledge ; the proliferation of discourse is the antidote to bad ideas . But in the reality of social media , free speech also consists of Jew hatred that masquerades as comic entertainment , a way to capture the attention of young men eager to rebel against the strictures of what they decry as wokeness . <p> When I asked Oren Segal , who runs the ADL 's Center on Extremism , to point me to a state-of-the-art anti-Semitic hate group , he cited the Goyim Defense League . The spitefully silly name reflects its methods , which include pranks and stunts broadcast on its website , Goyim TV . Its leader sometimes dresses as an ultra-Orthodox Jew , calling himself the " Honest Rabbi . " In one demented piece of guerrilla theater , he apologizes on behalf of the Jewish people for fabricating stories about the Holocaust . The group has attempted to popularize the slogan " Kanye is right about the Jews , " hanging a banner proclaiming it on a freeway overpass in Los Angeles and projecting it on the side of a football stadium in Jacksonville , Florida , as 75,000 fans filed out . GDL hecklers have stood in front of Florida synagogues and Holocaust museums , shouting , " Leave our country . Go back to Israel " and " Heil Hitler . " <p> In a short span , as the edgelords successfully pushed the limits , American culture became permissive regarding what could be said about Jews . Anti-Semitism crept back into the realm of the acceptable . <h> 7 <p> For a brief moment , it felt as if the October 7 attacks might reverse the tide , because it should have been impossible not to recoil at the footage of Hamas 's pogrom . Israel had yet to launch its counterattack , so there was no war to condemn . Still , even in this moment of moral clarity , the campus left could n't muster compassion . At Harvard , more than 30 student groups signed a letter on October 7 , holding " the Israeli regime entirely responsible for all unfolding violence . " Days later , the incoming head of NYU 's new Center for Indigenous Studies described the attacks as " affirming . " This sympathy for Hamas , when its crimes were freshest , was a glimpse of what was about to come . <p> On the afternoon of October 11 , Rebecca Massel , a reporter at the Columbia Daily Spectator , received a tip . She was told that a woman , her face wrapped in a bandanna , had assaulted an Israeli student in front of Butler Library in a dispute over flyers depicting hostages held by Hamas . The woman 's alleged weapon was a broomstick . Her battle cry was said to be " Fuck all of you prick crackers . " After striking him with the broomstick , the man said , she attempted to punch him in the face . By the end of the fracas , she had bruised one of his hands and sprained a finger on the other . <p> Massel began to report out the story . She spoke with the victim , who told her , " Now , we have to handle the situation that campus is not a safe place for us anymore . " She spoke with the NYPD , which confirmed that it had arrested the woman , who was charged with hate crimes and has pleaded not guilty . Massel and her editors curbed their impulse to quickly score a scoop , double-checking every sentence . They did n't publish the story until 3 a.m. on October 12 . <p> Later that morning , Massel , a sophomore studying political science , was sitting in her Contemporary Civilization seminar when her phone lit up . It was her editor , calling her back . She had texted him to get his sense of the response her article had elicited , so she stepped out of class to hear what he had to say . She had already caught a glimpse of posts on social media , harping on her Jewishness and accusing her of having a " religious agenda . " She 'd worried that these were n't stray attacks . The editor told her the paper had been inundated . The messages it had received about the article were vitriolic , but he did n't give her any specifics . Before returning to class , she checked her own email . A message read , " I hope you fucking get what you deserve ... you racist freak . " <p> For as long as she could remember , Massel had wanted to be a journalist . She 'd founded the newspaper at her elementary school . During high school , she 'd read She Said , Jodi Kantor and Megan Twohey 's book about investigating Harvey Weinstein 's sexual assaults . The New YorkTimes reporters insisted that they were journalists , not feminist journalists . Massel vowed to take the same approach . The accusations of bias , therefore , did n't just feel anti-Semitic . They felt like an attack on the integrity that she hoped would define her work . <p> But anger was an emotion for another day . At that moment , she was overwhelmed by fear . She thought about what the Israeli student had told her the day before . A dean had apparently advised him to leave campus because the university could n't guarantee his safety . Now Massel felt unsure of her own physical well-being . She decided that she would stay with her parents until she could get a better sense of the fury directed at her . <p> In her unnerved state , Massel threw herself into her journalism . She decided to interview Jewish students , from all corners of the university , to gauge their mood . After the office of public safety assured her that she could return to campus , she parked herself in the second-floor lounge of Columbia 's Hillel center . When she overheard a student mention an incident , she would approach them and ask to talk . <p> Over the course of two weeks , Massel spoke with 54 students . What she amassed was a tally of fear . Thirteen told her that they had felt harassed or attacked , either virtually or in person . ( One passerby had barked " Fuck the Jews " at a small group of students . ) Thirty-four reported that they felt targeted or unsafe on campus . ( At one precarious moment , the Hillel center went into lockdown , out of concern that protesters might descend on the building . ) Twelve said that they had suppressed markers of their Jewish identity , wearing a baseball cap over a yarmulke or tucking a Star of David necklace into a sweatshirt . She learned that a group of students had created a group-chat system to arrange escorts , so that no Jew would have to walk across campus alone if they felt unsafe . <p> Perhaps even more ominously , Massel uncovered incidents in which teachers expressed hostility toward Jewish students . One Israeli student told Massel that a professor had once said to him , " It 's such a shame that your people survived just in order to perpetuate another genocide . " When I made my own calls to students and faculty , I heard similar stories , especially instances of teaching assistants seizing their bully pulpit to sermonize . One TA wrote to their students , " We are watching genocide unfold in real time , after a systematic 75+ years of oppression of the Palestinian people ... It feels ridiculous to hold section today , but I 'll see you all on Zoom in a bit . " One student left class in the middle of a professor 's broadside against Israel in a required course in the Middle East -- studies department . Afterward , he sent an email to the professor explaining his departure , to which the professor wrote back , saying they could discuss it in class later . When the student returned , the professor read his email aloud to the whole class , and invited everyone to discuss the exchange . It felt like an act of deliberate humiliation . <p> When I talked with Jewish students at Columbia , I was struck by how they , too , tended to speak in the language of the intersectional left . They described their " lived experience " and trauma : the pain they felt on October 7 as they learned of the attacks ; the fear that consumed them when they heard protesters call for the annihilation of Israel . They sincerely expected their university to respond with unabashed empathy , because that 's how it had responded in the past to other terrible events . Instead , Columbia greeted their pain with the soon-to-be-infamous concept of " context , " including a panel discussion that explained the attacks as the product of a long struggle . This historicizing felt as if it not only discounted Jewish students ' suffering but also regarded it as a moral failing . ( In early November , in response to criticism , Columbia announced that it would create a task force on anti-Semitism . ) <p> There are many reasons for the unusual intensity of events at Columbia , which is located in a city that is a traditional bastion of the American left ; its campus is where the late Palestinian American literary critic Edward Said achieved legendary status . But Columbia is also a graphic example of the collapse of the liberalism that had insulated American Jews : It is a microcosm of a society that has lost its capacity to express disagreements without resorting to animus . <p> The events on campus that followed October 7 were a sad coda to the Golden Age . When I was a student at Columbia , in the ' 90s , the Ivy League was a primary plot point in a triumphalist tale . During the first half of the 20th century , Columbia had deployed extraordinary institutional energy to limit the presence of Jews . The modern college-application process was invented by Columbia President Nicholas Murray Butler to more effectively weed out Jews . In the late ' 20s , the university created an ersatz version of itself in Brooklyn , Seth Low Junior College , so that it could educate otherwise qualified Jewish applicants there , rather than having them mingle with the Gentiles in Morningside Heights . But once Columbia lifted its quotas after World War II , the Jewish presence swelled . By 1967 , the student body was 40 percent Jewish . The institution that arguably had fought hardest to exclude them became a welcoming home . <p> But in the 21st century , the Jewish presence in the Ivy League has steadily receded . In the 2000s , Yale was 20 percent Jewish . The proportion is now about half that . The University of Pennsylvania went from being a third Jewish to about 16 percent . The reasons for that plummet are n't nefarious . There has been a deliberate institutional drive to reengineer the elite , to provide opportunities to first-generation college students and students of color . Some Jews have chafed at this reengineering . But the concept of meritocracy that Jews celebrated was far from a pure reward for test scores and grades . Jewish alumni came to benefit from the same dynastic system of preference that their Protestant predecessors had taken advantage of . Their children applied from prestigious high schools , which maintained a cozy relationship with university admissions offices . It was a system that desperately required reforming in the name of fairness . <p> The problem exposed in the limp university response to campus anti-Semitism after October 7 -- distilled to then -- Harvard President Claudine Gay 's phrase , " It depends on the context " -- is that Jewish students are n't just a diminished presence but a diminished priority . Whereas Jews thought of themselves as a vulnerable minority -- perhaps not the most vulnerable , but certainly worthy of official concern -- their academic communities apparently considered them too privileged to merit that status . This was n't just scary . It carried the sting of rejection . <p> There 's a number that haunts me . In 2022 , the Tufts political scientist Eitan Hersh conducted a comprehensive study of Jewish life on American college campuses , which surveyed both Jews and Gentiles . Hersh found that on campuses with a relatively high proportion of Jewish students , nearly one in five non-Jewish students said they " would n't want to be friends with someone who supports the existence of Israel as a Jewish state . " They were saying , in essence , that they could n't be friends with the majority of Jews . <h> 8 <p> Each spring , during the Passover seder , Jews recite this phrase from the Haggadah : " In every generation , our enemies rise up to destroy us . " To participate in the most universally observed of all Jewish rituals , a celebration of liberation and survival , is to be reminded of the grim cycle of Jewish history , in which golden ages are moments of dramatic irony , the naive complacency just before the onset of doom . Some of these moments are within living memory . <p> In 1933 , the Central Union of German Citizens of the Jewish Faith published a 1,060-page book meticulously enumerating the achievements of the community . It was quite a list . Weimar Germany is remembered as a period of instability , a time of beer-hall-putschists , louche cabarets , and rampant assassinations . But Weimar was also the pinnacle of Jewish power , a golden age in its own right , especially if one considers the whole of German culture , which sprawled across borders on the map . During the first decades of the 20th century , Jewish contributors to German music included Gustav Mahler , Kurt Weill , and Arnold Schoenberg ; to German literature , Franz Kafka , Stefan Zweig , and Walter Benjamin ; to science , Albert Einstein . Jews presided over the Frankfurt School of social criticism and populated the Bauhaus school of art and architecture . The Central Union 's compendium could be read as the immodest self-congratulation of a people who represented 0.8 percent of the total population -- or as a desperate , futile plea for Germany to return the love that Jews felt for the country . <p> Americans maintain a favorable opinion of Jews . The community remains prosperous and politically powerful . But the memory of how quickly the best of times can turn dark has infused the Jewish reactions to events of the past decade . " When lights start flashing red , the Jewish impulse is to flee , " Jonathan Greenblatt , the head of the Anti-Defamation League , told me . <p> Back in 2016 , many liberals blustered about leaving the country if Donald Trump was elected president ; after he won , many Jews actually hatched contingency plans . My mother tried , in vain , to get a passport from Poland , the country of her birth . An immigration lawyer I know in Cleveland told me that he had obtained a German passport , and suggested that I call the German embassy in Washington to learn how many other American Jews had done the same . <p> The German government , for understandable reasons , does n't count Jews . But the embassy sent me a tally of passport applications submitted under laws that apply to victims of Nazi persecution and their descendants . In 2017 , after Trump 's election , the number of applications nearly doubled from the year before , to 1,685 , and then kept growing . In 2022 , it was 2,500 . These are n't large numbers in absolute terms ; still , it 's extraordinary that so many American Jews , whose applications required documenting that their families once fled Germany , now consider the country a safer haven than the United States . <p> After 1967 , the previous moment of profound political abandonment , the American Jewish community began to entertain thoughts of its own radical reinvention . A coterie of disillusioned intellectuals , clustered around a handful of small-circulation journals and think tanks , turned sharply rightward , creating the neoconservative movement . Among activists , the energy that had once been directed toward Freedom Rides was plowed into the cause of Soviet Jewry , which became a defining political obsession of many synagogues in the 1970s and ' 80s . Meanwhile , Jewish hippies turned inward , creating new spiritual movements centered on prayer and ritual . <p> Although not all of these movements proved equally fruitful , this history , in a way , is cause for optimism , an example of how conflict might provide the path to religious renewal and a fresh sense of solidarity . It 's also a reminder that the Golden Age was not an uninterrupted rise . <p> The case for pessimism , however , is more convincing . The forces arrayed against Jews , on the right and the left , are far more powerful than they were 50 years ago . The surge of anti-Semitism is a symptom of the decay of democratic habits , a leading indicator of rising authoritarianism . When anti-Semitism takes hold , conspiracy theory hardens into conventional wisdom , embedding violence in thought and then in deadly action . A society that holds its Jews at arm 's length is likely to be more intent on hunting down scapegoats than addressing underlying defects . Although it is hardly an iron law of history , such societies are prone to decline . England entered a long dark age after expelling its Jews in 1290 . Czarist Russia limped toward revolution after the pogroms of the 1880s . If America persists on its current course , it would be the end of the Golden Age not just for the Jews , but for the country that nurtured them . <p> This article appears in the April 2024 print edition with the headline " The End of the Golden Age . " When you buy a book using a link on this page , we receive a commission . Thank you for supporting The Atlantic .
