<h> Israel finds the body of a hostage killed in Gaza while talks will resume on a cease-fire <p> PTI Updated : April 06 , 2024 20:56 IST <p> Cairo , Apr 6 ( AP ) Israel 's military said on Saturday it had recovered the body of a 47-year-old farmer who was held hostage in Gaza , while negotiators prepared to begin another round of talks Sunday on brokering a cease-fire and securing the release of the remaining hostages , six months into the war . Israel 's army said it had found the body of Elad Katzir and believed he was killed in January by militants with Islamic Jihad , one of the groups that entered southern Israel in the October 7 attack , killed more than 1,200 people and took about 250 hostages . Katzir had been abducted from Nir Oz , a border community that suffered some of the heaviest losses . The discovery renewed pressure on Israel 's government for a deal to get the remaining hostages freed , as families have long feared time is running out . At least 36 hostages in captivity have been confirmed dead . About half of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Israel 's ongoing offensive in Gaza is measured in tens of thousands of deaths and more than a million Palestinians displaced . " We have arrived at a terrible milestone , " the UN humanitarian chief Martin Griffiths said in a statement marking six months and noting " the immediate prospect of a shameful man-made famine . " He called the prospect of further escalation in Gaza " unconscionable . " Israelis are divided on the approach by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his government after multiple rounds of stalled cease-fire negotiations . A week ago , tens of thousands of Israelis thronged central Jerusalem in the largest anti-government protest since the war began . Negotiations will resume on Sunday , according to an Egyptian official and Egypt 's state-owned Al Qahera TV . The official spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly about the talks . US President Joe Biden has sent CIA Director Bill Burns to Egypt . And a Hamas delegation will arrive on Sunday to join the talks , the militant group said . Hamas has insisted on linking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cease-fire -- to any agreement releasing hostages . It has said it will agree to release 40 hostages as part of an initial six-week cease-fire deal that would include the release of Palestinian prisoners from Israeli jails . Hamas also seeks the return of displaced people to devastated northern Gaza and more aid . Israel has offered to allow only 2,000 displaced Palestinians -- mainly women , children and older people -- to the north daily during a six-week cease-fire . The new talks will come days after international condemnation of Israeli airstrikes that killed seven humanitarian workers with the World Central Kitchen charity . The Israeli military has described the strike as a tragic error . Aid groups say the mistake is hardly an anomaly . Some Israel allies are now considering halting arms sales . Biden warned Netanyahu that future US support for the war depends on swift implementation of new steps to protect civilians and aid workers . " We need security guarantees for us as humanitarians but also for the people we serve , " said Marika Guderian with the World Food Program , speaking inside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been seen as a crucial new sea route for humanitarian aid directly to Gaza as the UN and partners warn of famine . In Jabaliya , a refugee camp near Gaza City , families scrounged in the rubble for mallow leaves to make a thin broth to break the daily Ramadan fast . " Life has become miserable . They ( daughters ) tell me , Father , you are feeding us mallow , mallow , mallow every day . We want to eat fish , chicken , canned food . We are craving eggs , or anything , ' " said Wael Attar . They shelter in a school as part of the 1.7 million people displaced in Gaza . The humanitarian group Oxfam says people in northern Gaza have survived on an average of 245 calories a day since January . Israel has promised to open more border crossings into Gaza and increase the flow of aid . The war 's death toll in Gaza is now 33,137 , the territory 's Health Ministry said . Its toll does n't differentiate between civilians and combatants , but it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dead . The ministry said the bodies of 46 Palestinians killed in Israeli airstrikes had been brought to hospitals in the past 24 hours -- the lowest such daily tally in months . Israel has blamed Hamas for civilian deaths in Gaza , accusing it of operating in residential communities and public areas like hospitals . Gaza 's southernmost city of Rafah now holds more than half of the territory 's 2.3 million people , and Israel 's vow to carry out a ground offensive there has caused weeks of dread and warnings even from Israel 's top ally , the United States . An Egyptian official on Friday called Israel 's most recent proposal to evacuate civilians from Rafah an " unrealistic and unworkable plan . " Egypt again threatened to suspend parts of the 46-year-old Camp David Accords that facilitate security cooperation between the states . ( AP ) RUPRUP <p> ( This story has not been edited by THE WEEK and is auto-generated from PTI )
