<h> The Galle Dialogue and a defining moment in world order <p> Speaking at the Galle Dialogue on 12 October 2023 , President Wickremesinghe spoke on the new emerging order . What he questioned , is the new emerging order , after the Hamas attack on Israel . He pointed out politically Israel has formed a new unity government . Defeating Hamas via military action he pointed out is one issue . He then added a rider to what happens if there is an attempt to destroy Gaza . If Gaza is destroyed he prophesized , the whole situation changes dramatically and within 24 hours . There will be nothing he said , governments can do to control it any longer . The unity government in Israel want to strike back . But if they go into Gaza and try to destroy it the whole Middle East will go up in flames and affect all of us from Turkey to Indonesia , to Central Asia . President Wickremesinghe was spot on . Israel occupies 78 percent of the State of Palestine . Only 22 percent -the West Bank and the Gaza Strip- are nominally governed by Palestinians . Even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ checkpoints in and out of the territory . It controls the transport of goods , medicines , and power and even controls the amount of drinking water residents of Gaza receive . To make matters worse Israel has set up Jewish settlements in the West Bank . By January 2023 , there were 144 Israeli settlements in the West Bank , including 12 in East Jerusalem . In addition , there are over 100 Israeli illegal outposts . According to the Human Rights Council presently there are 700,000 settlers living illegally in in the Israeli-occupied West Bank . The report adds , that during the past decade , the United Nations had verified 3,372 violent incidents by settlers , injuring 1,222 Palestinians . Frustrated by seventy-five years of Israeli occupation of Palestinian lands Hamas struck . Today the dilemmaMa1 Mr Wickremesinghe spoke of is on the verge of becoming reality . Early last morning the Israeli military ordered over 1 million Gazan people to leave their homes in the Gaza City within 24 hours . The UN has warned such a mass relocation is impossible . The question therefore is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wickremesinghe feared , and how will the fallout affect the rest of the world ? Amid this sad discourse though , a small candle of light is flickering . Up to this time the media -controlled by the West- painted a one-sided picture of events taking place on the ground . Today thanks to social media and especially to ' X ' ( Formerly Twitter ) , almost immediately fake news presented via the mainstream media is being contradicted . A good example of this is was US President -Joe Biden- forced to retract a particular statement he made regarding pictures he claimed to have seen -babies beheaded by Hamas militants . Similarly , a French journalist has also been forced to contradict her report of having seen hundreds of corpses of Hamas civilian victims strewn along the roads . Social media reports have also contradicted reports of Hamas militants cold-bloodedly killing youthful participants at a music festival . Separately , Bloomberg warns , amid uncertainty over whether the conflict will spread to other nations , oil could reach $100 a barrel . How will the rises in oil prices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recent bankruptcy ? Salaries have not been raised since the Covid-19 pandemic of 2019 . A number of small and medium enterprises were forced into closure , as were construction and road development projects which resulted in hundreds of thousands losing their employment . According to the World Food Programme An estimated 17 percent of its 22 million population is food-insecure 17 percent of our population is facing moderate acute food insecurity . Thirty-one percent of children under five years are malnourished and 20 percent of children under 5 years suffer from wasting . The President and his team will now have to look into ways and means to protect these innocents from the worst effects of a possible fallout.
