<h> A changing Kashmir <p> Harsha Kakar The PM visited Jammu last week and launched projects worth Rs 32,000 crores . There is no doubt that launching projects is now a national pass-time especially as elections draw close . They would have to stop with the imposition of the ' election code of conduct . ' How many projects will ultimately be implemented is unknown . Every BJP leader visiting the state harps on the benefits to the population post abrogation of article 370 . J and K had been politically dominated by few dynasties for decades , exploiting limitations imposed by article 370 . This is likely to witness a change in forthcoming elections as the BJP has made sufficient headway into their strongholds . Their own Gupkar alliance also appears to be faltering . The conduct of elections at the grassroot levels displayed that the government has an intent to change the dynamics of the region . The imposition of president 's rule opened doors for security forces to concentrate on taking on terrorists on both sides of the Pir Panjal , without political interference . Levels of violence have dropped to negligible levels . The recent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , adds credence to the fact that wherever there is a void , it will be exploited . It is essential that security forces ensure they do not mistreat civilian population , especially post unexpected casualties in counter-insurgency operations . As happened recently , strict action needs to be taken against those who break norms . It must be emphasized to commanders and troops that one tactical error in handling of the population could push years of hard work in winning hearts and minds to the background . With the creation of educational institutions of national repute , including IIMs , IITs , AIIMSs etc , the Government is displaying its intent of transforming J and K , bringing it at par with the rest of the country . Kashmir has already received investment worth Rs 5319 crore since abrogation of the article . This is from a promised investment of Rs 84,000 crores . These display positive signs of development . The PM also inaugurated the longest transportation tunnel of the country on the **27;2151;TOOLONG Rail Link ( USBRL ) . For those of us , who during service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regions of the country for an exposure , as part of the Sadbhvana project , travel by train was unique . This will no longer be the case . Tourism , which formed the mainstay of the region 's economy has been receiving a boost . Tourist footfalls have witnessed an increase year by year . The conduct of a G20 preliminary meeting in Srinagar was a milestone as it projected normalcy in the region , while sending a global message of tourism . The discovery of Lithium in the Reasi district will be a financial boon to the region . Its mining needs to be handled with care and not be bogged in controversy . In the healthcare sector J and K has witnessed an improvement . 2000 additional medical seats have been allocated to the Union Territory to meet shortfalls of doctors . The introduction of central government schemes has enhanced confidence of the public . The development in J and K is in sharp contrast to the suffering of the populace in POJK ( Pakistan Occupied J and K ) and Gilgit Baltistan ( GB ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the manner in which the Pak army runs the region . While J and K witnesses a boon in development , POJK sinks . Residents of POJK and GB are demanding integration with India , a reverse of what was witnessed in the valley in the nineties . It is a matter of time before they rise in arms against the maltreatment and discrimination being meted to them , adding to Pakistan 's insecurity . Militancy in the region is on the decline . It does not imply it has ended . In its year-end report ( comparing 2023 to 2018 , a year before nullification of article 370 ) the Home Ministry stated that terrorist incidents in the valley were down to 44 in 2023 from 218 in 2018 . There were nil incidents of organized hartals and stone pelting recorded in the year as compared to 52 hartals and 1221 stone pelting incidents in 2018 . Simultaneously , encounters dropped to 48 from 149 , civilian casualties to 13 from 55 and security personnel deaths to 26 from 91 . On the negative side , J and K @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per the UN Office on Drugs and Crime , 60,000 people in Jammu and Kashmir are struggling with drug addiction since 2018 , a large increase . Pakistan is now pushing narco-terrorism as its methodology in the region . The government is roping in Imams to help it in its battle against drugs . Unless this is tackled in an organized manner , the situation could deteriorate . Added is the fear amongst the masses of the government attempting to change demography of the region , as a fallout of the abrogation of article 370 . This is being raised at regular intervals by valley based political parties to convey their displeasure against changing the stature of the region . The government would need to work towards this and recreate the confidence amongst the masses . The role of Pakistan in destabilizing the region appears to be faltering . It will continue to attempt to push through terrorism , desperate to project a disputed status to the region . It 's comparing every trouble spot in the world , including Gaza , to Kashmir only highlights that all it has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ losing battle . However , fearful of Indian response it will ensure that terrorism does not cross a threshold . The anger amongst its own people in POJK and GB has removed the belief amongst the Kashmiris that Pakistan is a better alternative . Pakistan flags have almost disappeared so has chants supporting Pakistan . The people have realized that they were being shown a picture which was far from reality . Current efforts at bringing economic development in the valley must continue alongside confidence building measures . This will make Pakistan 's narrative redundant . In addition , India must encourage dissent across the LOC . The author is Major General ( Retd )
