<p> Aussie PM referred to International Criminal Court over alleged ' complicity in genocide ' in Gaza <p> 1 hour ago <h> Aussie PM referred to International Criminal Court over alleged ' complicity in genocide ' in Gaza <p> Mar 06 , 2024 , 12:55AM ISTSource : TOI.in <p> Australian lawyers vehemently denounce PM Albanese , referring him to the International Criminal Court as an ' accessory to genocide . ' A comprehensive 92-page document , endorsed by over a hundred Australian lawyers , meticulously details the PM 's alleged involvement in the Palestinian situation . A pivotal aspect of the referral is the unprecedented assertion under Article 15 of the Rome Statute , marking him as the " first leader of a Western nation " to face such allegations . The PM is accused of endorsing and supporting genocide in Palestine . The accusations in the document against the PM are nothing short of staggering . The legal team from Birchgrove Legal spent months compiling evidence for the dossier , alleging Australian forces ' collaboration with the US and UK in attacks on Yemen 's Houthis . Albanese dismisses the case , questioning the credibility of the legal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The ship with 12 Indians on board was en route from Djibouti to Singapore when attacked by drones . A drone , reportedly fired by Houthis , struck the container ship , causing a fire . The Indian Navy 's specialized firefighting team arrived on an inflatable motor boat and boarded the vessel . INS Kolkata trailed the ship while navy personnel in firefighting gear held hose pipes . A navy helicopter provided cover and ensured reconnaissance during the operation . All crew members were safely escorted to safe waters , and the Indian Navy deemed the operation a success . INS Kolkata is deployed in the region for maritime security operations . The attack on MSC Sky II occurred hours after a fresh Houthi strike on US warships . Since November , Houthis have repeatedly attacked US , UK , and Israeli ships in the Red Sea . They claim these attacks are in solidarity with Palestinians against Israel . The ongoing attacks in the Red Sea have disrupted global shipping , prompting firms to reroute to longer and more expensive journeys around Southern Africa .
