<h> Israel 's planned Rafah offensive <p> Harsha Kakar Differences between Israel and its allies are increasing over their plans to invade Rafah , a Palestinian city in the South Gaza strip , which also has a border crossing with Egypt . The Israeli invasion of Gaza resulted in displaced Palestinians seeking shelter in Rafah , increasing its population to over 1.5 million from its earlier 280,000 , all residing within 23 square miles . Benjamin Netanyahu , Israel 's PM , has been insisting that four Hamas battalions are operating in Rafah and would need to be annihilated , in case Israel is to achieve its war aims . Peace negotiations between Israel and Hamas have collapsed . There are claims by Gazan medical authorities that over 31,000 have been killed as a result of Israel 's military offensive post the 07 Oct attacks . Netanyahu mentions that 13,000 Hamas soldiers are part of those eliminated . Neither claim can be verified , however the attacks have severely impacted provision of aid to the region.Meanwhile , the Israeli cabinet approved a new budget with increased defence spending and compensation for those affected by the war , including businesses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invasion of Rafah envisages moving those who relocated in the city into ' humanitarian islands ' in the centre of Gaza , prior to its offensive . How will this materialize , time involved and arrangements for the population have not been spelled out . However , Israel 's intention to go ahead with the offensive has been questioned globally . In an interview to MSNBC , President Biden displayed his frustration when he stated , ' He ( Netanyahu ) has a right to defend Israel , a right to continue to pursue Hamas . But he must pay more attention to the innocent lives being lost as a consequence of the actions taken . He 's hurting ... in my view , he 's hurting Israel more than helping it . ' What 's impacting the US is that an attack on Rafah would add immensely to the already high casualty figures and the US accused of backing it . In desperation the US began air drops of aid as also announced its intent to establish a temporary pier enabling ships with humanitarian assistance reaching Gaza . While @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would impact its Middle East ties . Netanyahu has faced revolt from within , with his defence minister , Benny Gantz , making a visit to the US and meeting the Vice President , Kamala Harris . Unless Netanyahu delivers results , including release of balance hostages , his political career is in jeopardy . The world is also against Israel'sintent to invade Rafah . Australia , Canada and New Zealand issued a joint statement condemning the proposed offensive . European nations have approached their Commission to confirm if Israel is complying with Human Rights . British Foreign Secretary David Cameron said Israel should ' stop and think seriously ' before launching its ground invasion . Beijing demanded Israel ' stop all military operations . ' The Arab League warned that an offensive on Rafah would spell a ' humanitarian disaster . ' Egypt has stated that any spillover from an attack on Rafah could mean the end of their peace treaty with Israel . If Egypt does so , Jordan would follow , resulting in Israel being ringed with hostile states . Jordan 's King Abdullah stated while visiting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and let this continue . ' Qatar and Saudi Arabia commented that the invasion would have dire consequences . An attack on Rafah would achieve what the Hamas had initially desired , the end of Arab-Israeli reproachment , resulting in additional insecurity to Israel and support to their cause . South Africa submitted an ' urgent request ' to the International Court of Justice to assess if Israel 's assault on Rafah would be a breach of the court 's orders . While India has not directly indicated its stance on a possible attack on Rafah , the National Security Advisor ( NSA ) , Ajit Doval , met Netanyahu last week in Tel Aviv . The MEA spokesperson stated ' the NSA called on the Israeli Prime Minister and discussed developments in Gaza . He emphasised the delivery of humanitarian aid and assistance and discussed steps being taken or undertaken for the release of hostages . ' The Israeli viewpoint remains that unless Hamas is destroyed , it would re-emerge with time . Further , apart from destroying Hamas , Tel Aviv insists it must maintain complete control over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This implies that Israel retains the right to establish settlements in Gaza . Israel is also demanding an end to the United Nations Works and Relief Agency , claiming its personnel were involved in the 07 Oct attack , which has been denounced by the EU Humanitarian chief , mentioning ' Israel has no proof . ' Tel Aviv also refuses to endorse the global view of a two-state solution , indicating its intent to enhance settlements on Palestinian lands.Differences between Israel and its backers are rising by the day . Israelis have also been impacted by the war . Over 75,000 have been displaced due to attacks by the Hezbollah , businesses stalled , casualties mounting and its economy sinking . Houthi attacks have also hit global shipping , leading to retaliatory strikes . There are reports that the Houthi 's possess Hypersonic missiles which could add to threats . Once more the UNSC , created to prevent wars , has failed . The US vetoes any anti-Israel resolution , while Russia and China block attempts to blame Hamas . No wonder India leads in demanding that the UNSC @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world watches , while innocents pay the price for Hamas 's misadventures , while leaders of the organization remain safely esconed in Qatar . The US , despite all its criticism and frustration , will continue to back Israel by providing it with arms , ammunition and funds , while providing relief to the besieged population of Rafah . US tacit backing is what gives Netanyahu the confidence to continue with his operation despite global warnings . At the end of the day , no side will emerge the winner . Israel 's military and technological reputation has taken a beating . Its normalization of ties with the Arab world have been stonewalled . High civilian casualties will result in Israel having enemies within its own borders . Tel Aviv could face additional accusations of human rights and possibly even genocide . To maintain control over Gaza and the West Bank would mean suppressing the local populace adding to an anti-Israel sentiment . Anti-Semitism will rise globally with attacks on innocent Jews . The author is Major General ( Retd )
