<h> Opinion <h> Abrahamic angst and aspirations <h> By Rabbi Ralph Genende <h> Save articles for later <p> Add articles to your saved list and come back to them any time . <p> Advertisement <p> If there 's one individual from history who continues to enthral billions of people across our planet it 's a man called Abraham . Knight of faith , king of compassion , father of nations , he inspires Jews , Christians and Muslims . He is an interfaith maestro . <p> In view of this , when I was recently invited to the Abrahamic Peace Working Group Conference in Indonesia , especially at this time of gross tension between the monotheist faiths , it was a no-brainer that I should attend . An Islamic organisation willing to invite Jews and Muslims to come together ( and interact with Christians ) was a rare opportunity . It also supported my belief , based on the profound reflections of former Commonwealth chief rabbi Jonathan Sacks and Rabbi Menachem Froman ( a pioneer of interfaith endeavours in Israel and the West Bank ) that if religion today is part of the problem , it can also be part of the solution . <p> Mevlidi-i Halil Mosque in Sanliurfa , Turkiye , where a synagogue and then a church previously stood , is next to the reputed birthplace of Abraham . Credit : Mark Daffey <p> The Abrahamic Peace or Circles initiative is the brainchild of Dr Dino Patti Djalal , former Indonesian ambassador to Washington , who believes that addressing the problems of the world means recognising the role religion plays in them . The October 7 War , says Dino , will continue to have emotional and psychological consequences ; left unchecked it can also allow religious extremism to flourish . While he is mindful that meetings like this will not change the world overnight , he is convinced that small and incremental changes can temper the dangers of extremism . <p> The conference involved Jewish , Christian and Muslim religious leaders and scholars from across the world , from Dubai and Jordan to London , New York and East Timor . <p> Drafting an action plan was the most challenging part of the conference . Referencing the war of October 7 was a flashpoint of vigorous , angry and impassioned debate . There were tears and pain from the Jewish side when describing the murder and kidnapping of family , friends and fellow Jews ; there were tears and broken hearts from Muslims with Palestinian family and friends in Gaza . <p> There was sorrow on all sides for the horrible loss of innocent lives and the increase in antisemitism and Islamophobia . There was also a recognition of how the war has affected Christians who often felt caught in the middle . <p> Notwithstanding the difficult , brave and vigorous conversations , we walked and worked side by side , ate and laughed together , appreciating our shared humanity . The wise words of Archbishop Desmond Tutu resonated : it 's better to debate a question without settling it than to settle a question without debating it . <p> The action plan developed at the conference is a bold , hopeful and practical response offering concrete proposals to address Abrahamic angst , using educational , governmental and social media platforms , alongside grassroots and youth-oriented programs . <p> The conference coincided with the weekly Torah reading of Genesis 12 , which concerns the journey and mission of Abraham : to be a blessing to humanity . This is an important reminder to all of us not to despair of our role to repair -- and to play our part in mending -- the world . <p> Rabbi Ralph Genende is interfaith and community rabbi to the Australia/Israel &amp; Jewish Affairs Council .
