<h> Editorial : Shedding ambivalence on Middle East <p> Shedding its earlier policy of tightrope walk on the Middle East crisis , India has voted in favour of a draft resolution in the United Nations General Assembly that demanded a humanitarian ceasefire and unconditional release of all hostages . This unambiguous stand is welcome since there is an enormous humanitarian crisis and a large-scale loss of human lives due to continuous Israeli bombing of the civilian areas . The resolution , introduced by Egypt , demanded an immediate ceasefire and the unconditional release of all hostages . In all , 153 nations endorsed it , including UN Security Council 's permanent members China , Russia and France . Ten voted against it , including Israel and the United States , and there were 23 abstentions . Among the US ' ' Five Eyes ' allies , Australia , Canada and New Zealand voted in favour , while the United Kingdom abstained . With thousands of lives lost since the October 7 terror strike by Hamas and subsequent Israeli offensive , the clamour for an immediate ceasefire is growing . The stability in the Middle East is important to India @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , large numbers of the Indian diaspora work in the region . In October , India had abstained from voting in the UNGA on a resolution that had called for an immediate humanitarian truce in Gaza . New Delhi had apparently adopted a middle path in view of its close ties with the US and Israel , even though the official reason cited was the absence of any mention of Hamas in the draft . <p> The latest resolution also does not name the terror group , which started the present conflict by carrying out a dastardly attack against Israel . Both Austria and the US tabled amendments seeking that Hamas be named , but these were not adopted due to their failure to get the required two-thirds majority . Notably , India voted in favour of both amendments . The latest vote has exacerbated the global isolation of Israel and the US . In an unusually strong statement reeking of desperation , American President Joe Biden has warned Israel that it is losing international support because of its indiscriminate bombing of Gaza . The US is increasingly finding it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high stakes in the region and prides itself on its independent foreign policy , has taken a stand that is humanitarian as well as pragmatic . The pro-ceasefire vote is also meant to convey firmly to Israel and the US that they ca n't take New Delhi for granted . Since the beginning of the current war , more than 1,200 Israelis have been killed , and thousands injured in the terror attacks by Hamas while on the other hand , over 18,000 Palestinians have been killed in Gaza in Israeli retaliation . With the United Nations General Assembly ( UNGA ) adopting the resolution , it is now clear that the international community has been able to find common ground to address the multiple challenges facing the trouble-torn region .
