<h> Blinken holds Hamas responsible for resumption of war with Israel <p> US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said on Saturday that the pause in the ongoing Israel-Hamas conflict ended due to Hamas , claiming the terror group " reneged " on commitments.While speaking to the media at Dubai airport , he said , " I made clear that after the pause it was imperative that Israel put in place clear protections for civilians and for sustaining humanitarian assistance going forward . And as we 've seen just today , Israel has already moved out on parts of that , including sending out information , making it clear where people can be in safe areas in Gaza . And we 'll be looking at that going forward . It 's very , very important . " He highlighted that the end of the pause resulted from Hamas breaking commitments , citing a terrorist attack in Jerusalem and firing rockets before the pause ended . " It 's also important to understand why the pause came to an end . It came to an end because of Hamas . Hamas reneged on commitments it made . In fact , even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an atrocious terrorist attack in Jerusalem , killing three people , wounding others , including Americans . It began firing rockets before the pause had ended . And as I said , it reneged on commitments it made in terms of releasing certain hostages . " Blinken reiterated US support for peace in the region , and said that the US is focusing on the release of Israeli hostages . " We 're determined to do everything we can to get everyone home , get them reunited with their families , including pursuing the process that worked for seven days . We had seven days of a pause ; seven days of people coming home and being reunited with their families , " he said.Meanwhile , Israel and Hamas resumed their war in the Gaza Strip on Friday morning after a week-long truce ended with the two sides failing to agree on the release of more hostages held by the militant group.Israeli jets struck Hamas targets in Gaza soon after the cease-fire finished at 7 a.m. local time .
