<h> India announces probe into the Pannun case <p> Harsha Kakar India announced a ' high-level ' probe on claims of a plot to assassinate Gurpatwant Singh Pannun , head of the supposed SFJ ( Sikhs for Justice ) demanding an independent Khalistan , and the US appeared satisfied . It was a plot , how effective or even if was ever meant to be implemented , remains unknown , as the US claims it was busted in its preliminary stages . It is unlikely to be an Indian Government initiative as the mode of communication employed is unbecoming of a capable intelligence agency as also characters involved are dubious . Would any intelligence agency worth its salt , ever use WhatsApp , known to be compromised , in dealing with such a sensitive subject . The main character , on whom the entire US case is dependent , is a supposed smuggler and drug dealer , Nikhil Gupta , acting on behalf of an Indian , claimed to be a Government employee . After being arrested on charges of drug smuggling in Prague , Nikhil sought no Indian embassy assistance , only adding credence to his dubious role @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least till the Indian probe is completed or more details are released . The fact remains that the incident has generated global interest . Pakistan was the first to jump onto the bandwagon stating that Indian agents have been involved in similar incidents in their country . They have claimed arrests and confessions , none of which bear any weightage . Anthony Blinken , the US Secretary of State , was queried on this subject by reporters in Tel Aviv , where he was on a visit . The topic generated more discussion than the collapsing truce in Gaza . He responded , ' The ( Indian ) Government announced today that it was conducting an investigation , and that 's good and appropriate , and we look forward to seeing the results . ' A similar comment was made by the White House spokesperson . It does appear that the US was seeking an admittance from the Indian Government , which was not forthcoming . The Indian Government has repeatedly insisted that such actions are against its policies . No Government would ever accept responsibility , even if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recent pronouncements , is not worth attempting to eliminate and risk ruining a growing strategic partnership with the US . Khalistan remains a pipedream , pushed by Pak . Any attempt to eliminate Pannun would only add to his image and bring fence-sitting supporters into the Khalistan fold . Hence , in all probability it is not a Government sanctioned action . Ordering of a high-level probe is a means of closing the case for the moment . The issue will regain traction when the main witness , Nikhil Gupta , is produced in a US court . By then much water would have flowed under the bridge . The fact remains that the US has understood India 's concern on it harbouring anti-India elements on its soil . It is now in US-India interest that Pannun is reeled in from making undue statements as also instigating the movement . A similar message has gone to other nations where the movement is gaining traction . It is also known that Pannun is a CIA agent , maintained to keep India on its toes . Simultaneously , whether the claims are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the US way of conveying that it does not expect India to adopt a completely independent foreign policy but remain aligned to its views . It has also added credence to Canada 's accusations on the involvement of India in the killing of Nijjar . The video claimed to be forwarded to Nikhil Gupta , by his so-called Indian contact , was made by Nijjar 's supporters and loaded onto the net almost immediately after the assassination . For the US , backing Justin Trudeau is but expected . If the accusations are true , then India should realize that it is not that powerful that it can attempt to eliminate its opponents abroad and not be questioned , despite its growing global status . If it does attempt , many nations having done so , US , Russia , North Korea , China , Israel , Pakistan and Taiwan in the eighties , to name a few , these should not be attempted in allied nations . Any failed assassination attempt will invariably have repercussions , no matter where they are attempted . And worse is leaving a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries will try to influence lobbies in other states which impact their national security , India being no exception . What adds to concern is when the state where these elements reside appear to ignore their actions , despite them being harmful . India recently arrested a Canadian citizen , an ally of Nijjar , Mandeep Singh , in Punjab , plotting assassination of political and religious leaders . How far would Canada cooperate in this investigation to bring those backing Mandeep to book remains to be seen . What becomes more alarming is that a group of states , such as the ' five eyes ' terming themselves as allies and partners of India , join hands to illegally eavesdrop on India 's diplomatic communications , against the spirit of the Vienna conventions . It adds to belief that even true allies snoop on one another . This eavesdropping highlights another weakness . India does not possess secure communication links , despite all claims to inducting technology . There are Government agencies as also companies in the private sector warning the Government on this shortcoming as also working to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If the west is able to eavesdrop , China would certainly be able to . This concerns national security and must be accorded high priority . There are press reports that few Indian diplomats , associated with India 's RAW , were withdrawn from western embassies and consulates as a precautionary measure . In some cases , their replacements have not been accepted . This implies that India will always be considered with suspicion even if few anti-India elements are killed due to internecine rivalry . It will be worth watching how the US indictment against Nikhil Gupta proceeds . Currently it appears to be farfetched with limited substance . There are too many flaws and illogical sequences for it to be really considered a spy thriller . All would depend on how much the US Government leans on Nikhil , even compelling him to fabricate his story , just to prove a point . Time would determine how much is really true . ( The author is Major General ( Retd )
