<h> Protests at UN climate talks from ceasefire calls to detainees see ' ' shocking level of censorship ' ' <p> PTI Updated : December 09 , 2023 22:18 IST <p> Dubai , Dec 9 ( AP ) Activists designated on Saturday a day of protest at the COP28 summit in Dubai . But the rules of the game in the tightly controlled United Arab Emirates at the site supervised by the United Nations meant sharp restrictions on what demonstrators could say , where they could walk and what their signs could portray . At times , the controls bordered on the absurd . A small group of demonstrators protesting the detention of activists -- one from Egypt and two from the UAE -- were not allowed to hold up signs bearing their names . A late afternoon demonstration of around 500 people , the largest seen at the climate conference , could n't go beyond the UN-governed Blue Zone in this autocratic nation . And their calls for a cease-fire in the war in the Gaza Strip could n't actually name the states involved . " It is a shocking level of censorship in a space that had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expression , assembly and association , " Joey Shea , a researcher at Human Rights Watch focused on the Emirates , told The Associated Press after their restricted demonstration . Pro-Palestinian protesters who were calling for a ceasefire and climate justice were told they could not say " from the river to the sea " , a slogan previously prohibited by the UN over the days of COP28 . Protestors got around rules banning national flags by instead wearing keffiyehs and holding signs depicting watermelons -- symbols of Palestinian resistance . Protestor Dylan Hamilton of Scotland said it remained important for demonstrators to cry out their grievances , even if they sounded like a cacophony of concerns ranging from climate change , the war or Indigenous rights . " It 's essential to remind negotiators what they are negotiating about , " Hamilton said . " It 's trying to remind people to care about people you 'll never meet . " And despite the restrictions , activists protesting for a cease-fire in Gaza called the action historic due to its size . It was the biggest demonstration at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highlighting the link between Indigenous rights , climate justice and Palestinian rights . " I do n't want to look back one day where a Palestinian ca n't remember what their history and their culture used to look like , because that 's exactly what happened to us in Mexico , " said climate activist Isavela Lopez . " I 'm here to say to end with the colonial powers and with the white supremacy . " Many climate activists point to the same causes for today 's climate crisis . Typically , COP summits see mass demonstrations of tens of thousands of people outside of the Blue Zone . But given the UAE 's rules , the only place where activists can protest is inside that UN-controlled space , which has its own tight restrictions on speech . Just before the demonstration about the activists , organised by Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch , protesters had to fold over signs bearing the names of the detainees -- even after they already had crossed out messages about them . The order came roughly 10 minutes before the protest was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could not guarantee the security of the demonstration , Shea said . While speaking during the protest , Shea also had to avoid naming the Emirates and Egypt as part of the UN 's rules . " The absurdity of what happened at this action today speaks volumes , " she said . The Emirati government , in response to questions from the AP about the detainees protest , said it " does not comment on individual cases following judicial sentences " . " In the spirit of inclusivity , peaceful assemblies in designated areas have been and continue to be welcomed , " the statement said . " We remain dedicated to fostering dialogue and understanding as we work together at COP28 to deliver impactful solutions for accelerating climate action . " Demonstrators carried signs bearing the image of Emirati activist Ahmed Mansoor and Egyptian pro-democracy activist Alaa Abdel-Fattah . Mansoor , the recipient of the prestigious Martin Ennals Award for Human Rights Defenders in 2015 , repeatedly drew the ire of authorities in the United Arab Emirates , calling for a free press and democratic freedoms in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Israeli spyware on his iPhone in 2016 likely deployed by the Emirati government ahead of his 2017 arrest and sentencing to 10 years in prison over his activism . Abdel-Fattah , who rose to prominence during the 2011 pro-democracy Arab Spring uprisings , became a central focus of demonstrators during last year 's COP27 in Sharm el-Sheikh , Egypt , as he had stopped eating and drinking water to protest his detention . He has spent most of the past decade in prison because of his criticism of Egypt 's rulers . Since 2013 , President Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi 's government has cracked down on dissidents and critics , jailing thousands , virtually banning protests and monitoring social media . El-Sissi has not released Abdel-Fattah despite him receiving British citizenship while imprisoned and interventions on his behalf from world leaders including US President Joe Biden . Demonstrators also held up the image of Mohamed al-Siddiq , another Emirati detained as part of the crackdown . Emiratis in white thobes walked or rode past the protest in carts , looking on in curiosity . The protests had been scheduled to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on -- likely due to the sensitivity of even mentioning the detainees ' names in the country . Meanwhile Saturday , protesters briefly staged a sit-in at OPEC 's stand over a leaked letter reportedly calling on cartel member states to reject any attempt to include a phase-down of fossil fuels in any text at the summit . " It 's like having , you know , a convention on fighting the tobacco industry and having the tobacco industry present in a negotiation . That is not okay , " campaigner Nicholas Haeringer said . " It 's like having a fox in the henhouse . And to be honest with you guys , I think at some point we will run out of analogies before these guys run out of oil . " ( AP ) PYPY <p> ( This story has not been edited by THE WEEK and is auto-generated from PTI )
