<h> Dialogues elude current conflicts <p> Harsha Kakar The truce between Israel and Hamas has ended for which both blame the other.Attempts to restart the same are ongoing . The US President , Joe Biden , had publicly commented that he hoped the ceasefire would continue . Hamas launched the initial assault , capturing Israelis as a bargaining chip for Palestinians in Israeli jails as also hoping that Arab unity would counter Israel thereby forcing it into submission . It did not happen . Israel 's counter offensive was intended to , ' destroy Hamas , secure its hostages and ensure that no entity in Gaza can threaten Israel . ' This too is unlikely to happen . Israel may regain its hostages , some dead , mostly alive , but will never be able to destroy Hamas . It may eliminate the current leadership , opening doors for the next generation to rise . At the end of the day , Tel Aviv would secure a few years of respite before Hamas knocks on its door again , employing different tactics . The current ongoing war is resulting in destruction and loss of innocent lives . Reconstruction will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will ultimately have to be bulldozed by those who possess influence on both sides . Peace also eludes Ukraine as negotiations between Moscow and Kiev have been stalled for over a year . Ukrainian President , Volodymyr Zelensky has even signed a decree prohibiting negotiations with Russia . The Ukrainian foreign minister , Dmytro Kuleba , defended his country 's decision not to negotiate claiming , ' Russia routinely disregards its international commitments . ' Zelensky regularly announces that unless Ukraine regains all its territory it will not negotiate . To continue garnering support from Europe and the US , Zelensky warns that Russia could expand operations towards Europe . Ukraine is fighting its war on western weapons and funding . Zelensky avoids conducting elections claiming his country is in the middle of a war , assuming the role of a dictator , which the US would normally have shunned . Putin insists that it is Ukraine which walked away from the negotiating table . He stated at the online G20 summit , ' It is not Russia , but Ukraine , that has publicly announced that it is withdrawing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military actions are always a tragedy for people , families , and the country as a whole . And , of course , we must think about how to stop this tragedy . ' Unless there is a dialogue leading to an agreement , war will continue , adding to destruction and loss of innocent lives . In Afghanistan , US negotiations with the Taliban in Qatar dragged with no tangible result . The Taliban was a globally denounced terrorist organization , yet it negotiated hoping for a resolution . Ultimately , the US withdrew in haste and defeat , leaving the country at the mercy of the Taliban , which regened on most of its promises , especially those pertaining to human rights and education of women . Wars currently in progress have continued because the weaker side refuses to negotiate . Those with the power to discuss largely live outside the warzone . In Afghanistan , the Taliban leadership was ensconced in Quetta , Pakistan , while the Afghan population was exposed to the might of the US military and the brutality of the Taliban . In Ukraine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while the population goes through harsh winters without even basic amenities . The Hamas leadership , all billionaires , reside in Qatar in comfort , while Gazans are at the mercy of the Israeli military and tight control of Hamas . It is Hamas which diverted funds meant for development of Gaza to construct tunnels and build rockets , displaying little concern for their citizens . The population in Gaza has no voice , is fighting for survival , while being rejected even by their neighbours , Egypt and Jordan . They remain trapped in a region which is currently in rubbles . Further , as with Afghanistan and Gaza , the ruling authority are not nation states but terrorist organizations whose words can never be accepted nor can an agreement with them be legally binding . Hence , there can be no negotiated settlement . Israel therefore refuses to negotiate officially for a permanent solution . There are go-between states such as Qatar , which can intercede , but there are always doubts on promises made by terrorist organizations controlling warring regions . Another factor is interest of nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its allies discouraged Ukraine from negotiating . It is known that Boris Johnson , as the UK PM , visited Kiev and stopped its negotiations with Moscow . In the case of the Israel-Hamas war , it is Iran which holds the key . The drawing in of Hezbollah , Houthis and Shia terrorist groups in Iraq , aligned and funded by Iran , into expanding the war , including targeting of US bases , is an indicator . Nations with power and control have their own strategic reasons to continue the conflict . A near similar scenario exists in Yemen , Syria and Libya , where warring factions are backed by different nations with their own strategic goals . It is difficult to bring about peace as all parties are militia 's and not recognized states . Ultimately , it is the population which suffers . In Lebanon , the Hezbollah , a terrorist organization , possesses more power than the state itself . While Russia and Israel have possibly set end goals for themselves , these will never be reached , resulting in the conflict dragging on . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either side . Russia will not withdraw from regions it has occupied , while Ukraine will keep attempting to dislodge them . The scenario in Gaza is also likely to reach the same state shortly , with Israeli troops remaining in situ , to prevent the resurgence of Hamas . The US was forced to abandon its goals in Afghanistan and withdraw in a rush . It could do so because Afghanistan can not impact the US mainland due to distance . This option neither exists for Russia nor Israel as they are battling in their neighbourhood . They would be compelled to continue operations adding to loss of lives and impacting their economies . If war zones have to witness peace , then there is a need for nations backing warring sides to trim their strategic goals and work towards a common approach of terminating the conflict . Unless this is the intent , instability in regions will remain , migrations will increase and innocents will continue to suffer . The author is Major General ( Retd )
