<p> WASHINTON , Dec 17 : An Israeli airstrike killed a US Agency for International Development contractor in Gaza last month , his colleagues said in a statement on Saturday . The US development agency noted the death and urged greater protection for humanitarian workers in the fighting there . Hani Jnena , 33 , was killed November 5 along with his wife , their 2-year-old and 4-year-old daughters , and her family , the US-based humanitarian group Global Communities said . An internet-technology worker , Jnena had fled his neighbourhood in Gaza City with his family to escape the airstrikes , only to be killed while sheltering with his in-laws , the group said . His employer was an on-the-ground partner for USAID , the US agency said . The Washington Post first reported the death . In a final message to a colleague , Hani had written , " my daughters are terrified , and I am trying to keep them calm , but this bombing is terrifying " , Global Communities said . It was a rare report of the killing of someone with US-government ties in the more than two-month war between Israel and Hamas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including more than 100 UN workers , have been killed in Gaza as Israel bombards areas crowded with civilians and battles with Hamas fighters on the ground . Health officials in Hamas-run Gaza say more than 17,000 people have been killed , two-thirds of them women and children . Israel 's offensive is in response to an October 7 Hamas assault in Israel that killed about 1,200 people . USAID employees had been prominent in recent open letters by US government employees objecting to US policy in support of Israel 's continued offensive , including President Joe Biden 's decision not to join many other governments in calling for a cease-fire . In an email , USAID spokesperson Jessica Jennings said on Saturday , " The USAID community grieves the deaths of the innocent civilians and many humanitarian workers who have been killed in this conflict , including courageous individuals like Hani Jnena . " " In providing assistance and advocating for greater safety for civilian populations and the humanitarians who serve them , we are doing our utmost to honour the dedication , fortitude , and compassion of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ( AP )
