<h> India-US Ties Needs More Engagement <p> A senior official , the Press Secretary of Pentagon , Pat Ryder , said in a news conference on 13 December that the US has made great progress in its defence ties with India and is looking forward to making further progress in military-to-military engagement in 2024 . Note that the Pentagon is the metonym for US Defence Department . It is the most important and powerful institution of the US government , deriving from its role as the nerve centre of the country 's armed forces . At the same time , Indian media reports that US President Joe Biden has declined the invitation to be the Chief Guest at the Republic Day parade next month . Also , India has voted for a resolution that calls for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza , whereas the US has voted against . It is also noteworthy that India also voted for two amendments , one moved by Austria and the other by USA . The Amendment Resolution proposed by USA made specific mention of " Heinous terrorist attacks by Hamas that took place on Israel on 7 October 2023 and the taking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israeli hostages . It is another thing that both amendments were dropped as they did not receive the required number of votes . Unarguably , in international politics , countries conduct their foreign policies in pursuance of their national interests , reflecting the values and norms they espouse and stand for , as well as the rules they adhere to . But the moot question is how the national interest is defined and realised in short and long term . In the formative years of independent India , the first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru conceptualised the country 's foreign policy while other ministers were busy in uniting and stabilising the nascent independent country . On reflection , experts , scholars and observers argue that the policy of Non-alignment , the hallmark of Nehru 's foreign policy proved costly for the country besides it not being maintainable as a strategy . It is also a truism that ' people become wiser after the event ' . But statesmen are known for taking sagacious and judicious steps which are in the interest of the country , and they are regarded as correct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ multi-alignment ( the topic of this column published on 8 December ) . In the current scenario , in which India is leaning towards the US and the West for its growth and security , the engagement with this bloc seems to be proceeding in fits and starts . Is this right approach now or in the long-term interest of India ? Are both the countries on the same page on many global and bilateral issues ? To take a few illustrations in order to examine the above assumption , let us look at the war in Ukraine . India abstained on several resolutions moved in the United Nations on naming Russia as an aggressor , which implied New Delhi 's stance has been pro-Russian . New Delhi has a tradition of expressing solidarity with countries suffering from intervention , neo-colonial exploitation and undue interference and intervention . In the past , when Hungary was invaded in 1956 , Czechoslovakia in 1968 and Afghanistan ( a non-aligned country ) in 1979 , all by the Soviet Union , India kept quiet . Similar is the position on Ukraine although it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Is that good for India 's reputation of embracing a value-based approach in international politics , particularly in comparison to China , which is out to grab other countries territory and is posing a systemic threat to world politics ? Apparently , India did it in pursuance of its national interest which consisted of keeping up its traditional ties with the Soviet Union . Quite a bit of research has been done calculating the costs and benefits of India 's military trade with Soviet Union and now Russia . On the other hand , it has irked the United States with whom our partnership is growing . Prime Minister Narendra Modi went a step further in seconding the candidature of Donald Trump , who was a good friend of India inasmuch as he took on China . On Ukrainian war , India would excel as a neutral party if the Prime Minister could broker a peace deal between Ukraine and Russia in consultation with the United States and Europe . Even if the peace deal was not a complete agreement , New Delhi could have contributed to a ceasefire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for such an initiative from the Indian PM , albeit under the UN platform . The Ministry of External Affairs and the PMO continued to hark on dialogue and diplomacy . It would have been better if these two tools were put into some action . Indian Foreign Policy establishment prided on their ability to negotiate both with US as well as Russia especially buying oil from the latter at cheaper rate from Russia . The oil import certainly did help in containing inflation of energy prices . But did it help even partially to ending of the war in Ukraine ? On the war in Gaza , India did display a pragmatic as well as normative approach by expressing solidarity with Israel as it faced a terrorist attack from Hamas . Since then , India had abstained in United Nations from voting for any resolution that did not name Hamas ' action on 7 October as a terrorist attack . In the latest resolution , India has taken a balanced position of calling for a ceasefire as well as calling out Hamas for terror attack and keeping Israeli hostages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Palestinians are dying in bombardment by Israelis who will not stop until they " eliminate the military capacity of Hamas in repeating such attacks as of 7 October " . Any country , talking of India , could do well to ask Hamas to release the rest of the hostages and surrender , and Israel to withdraw its forces so that innocent civilians are not sacrificed . There seems no other way to stop the current bloodshed . Going back in history of action-reaction or aggressor-victim -- aggressor syndrome will not stop the ongoing war . There is more than one interpretation of Joe Biden not attending the Republic Day parade . It may be so that the back-to-back arrangement for Quad Summit and Republic Day celebration are not compatible with the Congressional schedule of the American President . The refusal of the invitation from Modi by Joe Biden could also be attributed to the irritation arising out of the " assumed Indian agency hand " in the attempted assassination of the controversial Sikh , an American citizen , Gurpatwant Singh Pannun . The issue has assumed greater seriousness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizen , allegedly by Indian agencies . Be that as it may , there is a case for India 's greater engagement with the United States that takes a rounded approach , not just sectoral like the increased collaboration in defence . Bilateral relationship is based on shared understanding , deepening trust and often being on the same side on important international issues . Such an approach militates against India 's multi-alignment policy which is of course desirable in a gloablised world . Is it not necessary to differentiate between issue-based alignment and strategic partnershi ( INFA )
