<h> Women and children first ? Experts say that in most crises , it 's more like everyone for themselves <p> London , Dec 16 : So much for women and children first . The phrase and its grave implications about who to save first in a catastrophe are rooted in the shipwrecks of centuries past and popularized by Hollywood 's treatment of the Titanic disaster . It is getting another airing at a time when , in many societies , women are expected to do most everything men do . Experts say the unwritten law of the sea is a Hollywood-fed myth and a relic of Victorian-era chivalry . At the center of this round of questions is the prisoners-for-hostages deal between Israel and Hamas in November that prioritized releasing women and children after negotiators agreed that mothers and their children should not be separated . Israelis are overwhelmingly supportive of this approach . But it leaves behind elderly and injured men , a result that has angered some families . " To say women and children ' in the 21st century -- as if families can be whole without the fathers , as if children that have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way start recovering from the trauma -- is unthinkable , " Sharone Lifshitz , whose mother was freed in October and whose 83-year-old father , Oded , remains in captivity , told The Associated Press . Of about 240 people who were kidnapped during Hamas ' Oct. 7 rampage , 86 Israelis were released . Seventeen Thai men also were let go . That left 119 men -- many of them injured or elderly -- and 17 women and children as hostages in Gaza . In a private meeting on Dec. 5 , Israeli media reported , the families of the remaining captives ripped Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu for agreeing to prioritize women and children -- then resuming Israel 's bombardment of Gaza with no known plans to negotiate the release of anyone else . " You think the men are strong ? It 's too hard for them . Bring them all home , " Sharon Cunio , whose husband , David , and other family members are still hostages , told Netanyahu and Israel 's war cabinet , according to local media . WHAT 'S BEHIND THE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ widely agreed-upon crisis action plan , whether it 's a rescue from a natural disaster or a hostage-taking . And women and children generally pay an outsized price in crises : The death toll from Israel 's bombardment of Gaza tops 18,700 -- around two-thirds of them women and children . But other standards , such as women before men , can lead to fraught judgments about whose lives are most valuable -- and reflect the human impulse to sort each other . Experts say the choice nowadays often is to save the most vulnerable first , which would include children but also older people and those who are sick and the injured , no matter their gender . When everyone ca n't be rescued at once , the critical factors seem to be the exercise of leadership and all players making a choice -- typically between themselves and others . Other dynamics weigh heavily , such as how much time people have before a ship sinks as well as the societal and cultural norms of the people involved . " What is considered valuable ' is determined by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a professor at the University of Greenwich who specializes in evacuation and human behavior . In a fire or other disaster , it 's those directly involved -- say , a ship captain or passengers . In a hostage situation , he says , " it 's external actors " -- in the case of the Gaza war , it 's intense politics and a watching world . " For example , it could be considered valuable to be seen to attempt to release the most vulnerable first or to release women and children first or to be gender and age neutral , " Galea said in an email . There 's no law or regulation that says women and children must be saved first ; rather , he 's said , it 's a tradition ingrained by Hollywood . In real time , human behavior in catastrophes often plays out more like every person for themselves , according to experts who have studied the dynamics . There 's often no time to consider who belongs to which group , or to fight over terms as in a wartime hostage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first . In Italy in 2012 , that someone was Francesco Schettino , the captain of the luxury liner Costa Concordia who slammed it into a reef , capsizing off the Tuscan island of Giglio . Thirty-two people died . Schettino is serving a 16-year prison sentence for manslaughter , causing a shipwreck and abandoning a ship before all the passengers and crew had evacuated . On the Israel-Hamas prisoners-for-hostages deal , the negotiators agreed that mothers and children should not be separated . Hamas , which broke hostage-taking norms by abducting women and children , was more open to their release because they were getting in the way . Not all women were released , however : Some are in the army , and some have died . After Israel resumed its bombing of Gaza on Dec. 1 , Netanyahu reportedly told the families of the male hostages that Hamas was now making demands that even they , the relatives of those still missing , would not have accepted in exchange for their loved ones . A LONG HISTORY OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN FIRST The women-and-children ethos is widely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few miles off the coast of South Africa . In the wee hours of Feb. 25 , with about 638 people aboard , the steam paddler hit a rock off Danger Point . Water flooded the forward hull and the equipment used to lower most of the lifeboats malfunctioned , according to accounts at the time . British Lt. Col. Alexander Seton , 38 , is widely credited with understanding as the ship sank that fleeing men would swamp the few functioning lifeboats , which were filled with women and children . He gave the order to his crew : " I implore you not to do this thing and I ask you all to stand fast . " They did , according to multiple survivor accounts . Britain 's National Army Museum says the 193 survivors included all 26 women and children aboard . Thus was born what became known as " the Birkenhead drill , " whereby women and children were saved first in shipwrecks . " To stand an ' be still to the Birken'ead drill is a damn tough bullet to chew , " Rudyard Kipling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ associated with the sinking of the RMS Titanic on April 15 , 1912 , killing at least 1,500 of the more than 2,200 people aboard . Accounts differ , but testimony from the inquiries afterward indicates that someone or someones -- from Capt . Edward Smith to various passengers -- prioritized putting women and children into the lifeboats , of which there were not enough to evacuate everyone aboard . In the end , 70% of the women and children were saved compared to only 20% of the men , according to a 2012 study by two economists at Uppsala University in Sweden . The 1997 movie " Titanic " immortalized the order when actor Leonardo DiCaprio says the words " women and children first " during a key scene . That 's not how evacuations and rescues tend to play out in real life , according to one of the authors of the 2012 study , which looked at 18 maritime disasters over three centuries . The Titanic was the exception , according to Mikael Elinder , because leadership had an effect on the behavior of the crew . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just chaos , " Elinder said . " When there is a threat to loss of life , one tries to save oneself . " In most shipwrecks , the study found , women have a survival disadvantage compared with men . Captains and crew survive at a significantly higher rate than passengers . And it turned out that some survivors later spoke of men trying to save themselves . And there were other distinctions made , according to Lucy Delap of Cambridge University , a historian of feminism in the United States and Britain . " It turned out that not all women were equally deserving of protection at sea , " she wrote in 2012 . " Lower-class women -- wives of sailors or soldiers , or poor emigrant women -- were frequently excluded from the rule , and women of color were equally marginalized . " ( AP )
