<h> Israel keeps pounding Gaza , Houthis vow more Red Sea attacks <p> 19-Dec-2023 <p> <p> CAIRO/GAZA , Dec 19Israel kept pounding the shattered Gaza Strip on Tuesday while Yemen 's pro-Palestinian Houthi movement vowed to defy a U.S.-led naval mission and keep hitting Israeli targets in the Red Sea.Israel 's campaign to eradicate Hamas militants behind an Oct. 7 massacre has left the coastal enclave in ruins , brought widespread hunger and homelessness , and killed nearly 20,000 Gazans , according to the Palestinian enclave 's health ministry.Under foreign pressure to avoid killing innocents , Israel 's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says the war will not stop until a remaining 129 hostages are freed and Hamas is obliterated after its fighters ' slaying of 1,200 Israelis.The conflict has spread beyond Hamas-ruled Gaza , including into the Red Sea where Iran-aligned Houthi forces have been attacking vessels with missiles and drones . That has prompted the creation of a multinational naval operation to protect commerce in the area , but the Houthis said they would carry on anyway , possibly with a sea operation every 12 hours . " Our position will not change in the direction of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not , " Houthi official Mohammed Abdulsalam told Reuters , saying only Israeli ships or those going to Israel would be targeted . " Our position in support of Palestine and the Gaza Strip will remain until the end of the siege , the entry of food and medicine , and our support for the oppressed Palestinian people will remain continuous . " Announcing the naval operation , U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said in Bahrain that joint patrols would be held in the southern Red Sea and Gulf of Aden , which encompass a major East-West global shipping route . " This is an international challenge that demands collective action , " he said.British maritime security firm Ambrey said on Tuesday it received information of a potential boarding attempt west of Yemen 's Aden port city , adding that the attack was unsuccessful and all crew were safe.Some shippers are re-routing around Africa.Deaths mountIn Gaza , Israel 's latest missiles hit the southern Rafah area , where hundreds of thousands of Palestinian refugees have amassed in recent weeks , killing at least 20 people and wounding dozens of others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dig in the rubble with bare hands . " This is a barbarian act , " said Mohammed Zurub.Among the dead was Palestinian journalist Adel Zurub and several members of his family , medics said . That raised the number of Palestinian journalists killed to 97 , according to the Hamas-run government media office.In the north , another strike killed 13 people and wounded about 75 in the Jabalia refugee camp , the health ministry said.Israel says it warns of strikes in advance so civilians can escape , and it accuses Hamas of hiding in residential areas.The U.N . agency for Palestinian refugees UNRWA said more than 60% of Gaza 's infrastructure was destroyed or damaged , with more than 90% of the 2.3 million population uprooted . " This is a staggering and unprecedented level of destruction and forced displacement , taking place in front of our eyes , " it said.In the ground war , where Israel has lost 132 soldiers , tanks advanced further into the southern city of Khan Younis and shelled a market area but met heavy resistance , residents said.Thousands of Hamas fighters , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israeli forces . " The IDF ( Israel Defense Forces ) is continuing to operate against Hamas terrorist infrastructure and operatives in the Gaza Strip , " the military said in a statement.Child amputees killed in hospitals , UN saysThe Gaza health ministry said on Tuesday that 19,667 Palestinians had been killed and 52,586 wounded since Oct. 7 . U.N . officials voiced disbelief about the situation in hospitals , which lack supplies and safety . " I 'm furious that children who are recovering from amputations in hospitals are then killed in those hospitals , " said James Elder , spokesperson for the U.N . children 's agency UNICEF , saying Nasser Hospital , the largest operational one left in the enclave , had been shelled twice in the past 48 hours.U.N. human rights chief Volker Turk reiterated an appeal for a ceasefire and work towards a two-state solution.Despite 11 weeks of attacks against it , Hamas said it had still been able on Tuesday to fire a salvo of rockets towards Israel 's commercial capital Tel Aviv , where sirens sounded . Reuters
