<p> The search for the suspect intensified after authorities traced an auto-rickshaw , in which the accused allegedly travelled , to Jamia Nagar in southeast Delhi . The suspect is considered a prime focus in the ongoing investigation . <p> New Delhi : In a potential breakthrough in the investigation of the recent explosion near the Israel embassy in Delhi , the Delhi Police and central intelligence agencies have launched a manhunt for a suspect believed to be linked to the incident . The search for the suspect intensified after authorities traced an auto-rickshaw , in which the accused allegedly travelled , to Jamia Nagar in southeast Delhi . The suspect is considered a prime focus in the ongoing investigation . <p> The lead emerged as the authorities identified the auto-rickshaw through CCTV footage , although the registration number could not be discerned due to blurriness . Subsequent efforts to track the auto-rickshaw led the investigators to Jamia Nagar . However , details about whether the suspect was dropped off or picked up at the blast site or in Jamia Nagar remain undisclosed . <p> This recent explosion outside the Israeli Embassy has many similarities with the 2021 when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) identified suspects near the scene wearing masks . The suspects were tracked to an auto-rickshaw that transported them from the embassy area to Jamia Nagar . Despite an extensive search , no footage from Jamia Nagar captured the suspects , indicating a potential switch to a getaway vehicle with no CCTV coverage . <p> The investigators noted similarities between the two incidents , including the use of a timer device in the explosions and the presence of a letter left at the scene by the perpetrator(s) . In the 2021 case , the letter , addressed to the Israeli ambassador , referred to the explosion as a " trailer " and mentioned Iranian figures Qasem Soleimani and Mohsen Fakhrizadeh as " martyrs . " The recent letter discussed " resistance to Zionists " and criticized Israel 's actions in Gaza .
