<h> Butterfly effect : Rice , pirates , self-interest <h> Allowing pirates a free run in shipping lanes strengthens Israel 's resolve to crack down on Gaza . Each of these has a direct effect on the common Indian trying to make up for loss of livelihood during the pandemic and facing runaway inflation thereafter . A narrow definition of self-interest serves to treat the symptoms rather than the malaise . <p> India 's reluctance to join a US-led task force to pacify Yemen 's Houthis threatening commercial shipping in the Red Sea is yet another assertion of its self-interest over international alignment . India 's maritime trade is critically dependent on the Red Sea and New Delhi does not wish to risk retaliation . In the process , the country 's rice exports to West Asia are being affected . But that works in the direction of last year 's export curbs on rice , wheat and sugar imposed to keep domestic prices from climbing . The shortfall in these commodities is likely to be offset by growing exports of other farm goods . Weak local prices of cereals aid in tackling trenchant inflation under this head . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to partisanship , it does contribute to prolonging international conflict that affect its consumers . Buying oil helps Russia prosecute its war with Ukraine . Banning food export invites retaliatory action from other nations that are inimical to an economy lacking in food security . Allowing pirates a free run in shipping lanes strengthens Israel 's resolve to crack down on Gaza . Each of these has a direct effect on the common Indian trying to make up for loss of livelihood during the pandemic and facing runaway inflation thereafter . A narrow definition of self-interest serves to treat the symptoms rather than the malaise . <p> India , to be fair , has used its rising economic heft and global integration to champion multilateralism as a solution to conflict and iniquity . Building consensus is arduous , and New Delhi has so far been able to convince the world about the need for it to strike out on its own if the situation demands . To that extent , it has conducted itself as a responsible global citizen .
