<h> Never again another Holocaust <p> It was unknown until now that Mehbooba Mufti had such an overflow of emotion towards the recently killed leader of Hezbollah , Hassan Nasrallah . Perhaps that would explain why some inhabitants of Kashmir paraded in streets there to protest the taking out of Nasrallah by the Israeli Defense Forces . Getting a group of folks together to shout pre-cooked slogans and disrupt traffic for a while by taking up the space needed in roads for motorists and pedestrians . The former Chief Minister of Kashmir suspended her election campaign for a day , avowedly in homage to Nasrallah . As a consequence , the spotlight of public interest returned towards the leader who on 8 October 2023 began a campaign against Israel by sending rockets across the frontier between Lebanon and Israel . On the previous day , Hamas had carried out a grisly terror attack that resulted in the death of several Israeli citizens and the taking captive of many . It was clear that the calculation of the Hamas leadership was that the captured hostages would deter the IDF from taking energetic action against the terror group . However , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cruelty and ferocity of the 7 October attack on Israel brought back memories of the way in which the Nazis had dealt with the Jewish population in the territories that were controlled by supporters of Hitler . Having endured the Holocaust in the previous century , it has been imprinted in the mindspace of every member of the Jewish community that such a fate ought never to befall them again . No matter what the collateral cost , Israel was determined that such a fate ought never to be repeated . The IDF and its affiliated agencies have over the past year demolished the ability of the military wing of Hamas to a level that makes any future mass terror attack improbable . <p> An argument often trotted out to justify the terror attacks of Hamas is that the territory of Palestine as presently exists is under the security control of Israel . While such may be true of the West Bank , it was not in the case of Gaza , from where Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu had cleared out Israeli settlers and left Hamas to its own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What took place on 7 October 2023 shows the unwisdom of such a " Hands Off " policy towards a Hamas-controlled Gaza . It is clear that by launching the terror attack and by ( in its own view ) ensuring the lack of a robust response from the IDF by taking such a large number of hostages , Hamas was looking at converting the West Bank into another Gaza . The calculation was that young Palestinians in particular would flock under the Hamas banner in what is the West Bank , displacing the Palestinian Authority as had taken place in Gaza in 2005 . The rubble that is left of Gaza shows what happens when a terror organisation takes control of a territory . As for Lebanon , the people of that country have been paying a steep price as a consequence of its domination by Hezbollah . In much the same way , the people of Iran have been suffering privation as a consequence of the takeover of the country by Ayatollah Khomeini in 1979 . By going forward with a major attack on Israel on 1 October @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own fate . Where Iran is concerned , President Biden can not afford to look weak , and will therefore back Israel in its fightback against the biggest foe of Israel in the region . What is happening to Hamas , Hezbollah and the clerical regime in Iran shows why it is folly to attempt to repeat what was attempted by Hitler during 1936-45 , the elimination of the Jewish people , who are among the most creative and gifted in the world . Never again will there be a repeat of the Holocaust .
