<p> THE idea of using innocent civilians as ' human shield ' by terrorists outfits such as Hamas or Hezbollah holed up deep in thickly populated areas now fully stands exposed after one year of current conflict in Middle-East . This very approach of the terrorists is meeting with stiff resistance from the Islamic community all over West Asia -- with many countries openly disagreeing with the idea . As the conflict gets dirtier , a serious concern is building up in the region about the basic security of civilian population , many segments of which being used as human shield . As a result , strong possibilities are emerging that many Arab countries may disassociate themselves from the Iranian cause . The latest Israeli strike on a mosque in Gaza killing 19 people may further the opposition to use human shield by terror outfits . Possibilities can not be ignored that some terrorists took shelter in that mosque -- which the Israeli precision attacks targeted accurately after identifying their location . <p> With passage of more time , more such attacks may take place , making things all the more difficult for the Islamic powers to sustain in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ levels to halt the conflict -- whose possibilities are only thin . For , Israel has asserted that it would never stop its operations before it met with its stated goals . This posturing may get slightly watered down with some diplomatic efforts , all right . But the core issue is if Iran would agree to slow down in its operations of whatever intensity . There is a major difference between the approaches of Iran and Israel to the conflict . While Israel 's approach is clear -- and morally right -- Iran 's approach conveys the message of obstinacy with unjustifiable cause . Those who understand the complexities of international realpolitik also sense an altogether different possibility of conflict resolution -- of a regime change in Iran ( possibly with international effort so that the current conflict is at least halted for whatever period . For , the world has realised the root-cause of the current trouble that began a year ago when Hamas fired thousands of missiles on Israel with almost no provocation . Terror outfits such as Hamas , Hezbollah and Houthi have been supported by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mainstay has been Iran . And this is because of Iran 's fundamentalist regime that refuses to see sense in moderation of any kind . At the completion of one year of the Middle-East conflict , the world is beginning to sense serious ramifications on economies of many countries . <p> If this conflict has to be resolved -- or at least halted for time being -- then countries like Iran must see sense in immediate de-escalation . And if there is refusal on that count , then the world powers will have to come together to ensure that a right-thinking regime is established in Iran in the immediate future . Going by these dimensions , it is obvious that the Middle-East conflict is assuming very serious dimensions that are getting more and more difficult to be handled without major changes in power structure in some countries . This is certainly going to be a tall order -- which can not be ignored . The Middle-East conflict , thus , has assumed a far greater intensity than the one between Russia and Ukraine . That conflict , too , affected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ramifications of the current Middle-East conflict are of far greater intensity than the European one . One year on , it is time the world powers came together to halt the Middle-East conflict and restore at least a semblance of peace -- provided they help Israel in meetings its immediate goals to reasonable extent .
