<h> Thai King 's 72nd birthday parade in Bangkok , severe flooding in Kelantan , and more images from around the world in Today in Pictures . <p> Thailand 's King Maha Vajiralongkorn ( right ) inspecting a guard of honour accompanied by Thailand 's Queen Suthida during the " Trooping the Colour " parade by the Thai Royal Guards and oath-giving ceremony to mark the King 's 72nd birthday celebrations at the Dusit Palace in Bangkok on Dec 3 , 2024 . PHOTO : AFP <p> An aerial view showing houses surrounded by floodwaters after heavy rain in Pasir Mas , Malaysia 's Kelantan state , on Dec 3 , 2024 . More than 122,000 people have been forced out of their homes as massive floods caused by relentless rains swept through Malaysia 's northern states . PHOTO : AFP <p> South Korea 's main opposition Democratic Party leader Lee Jae-myung looking on as people hold placards that read " Step down President Yoon Suk Yeol " and " Investigate his act of rebellion immediately " , at a rally to condemn the President 's surprise declaration of martial law on Dec 3 and to call for his resignation , at the National Assembly in Seoul on Dec 4 , 2024 . PHOTO : REUTERS <p> People gathering in front of the main gate of the National Assembly in Seoul on Dec 4 , 2024 , the day after South Korean President Yoon Suk Yeol declared martial law , saying the step was necessary to protect the country from " communist forces " amid parliamentary wrangling over a budget Bill . PHOTO : AFP <p> West Ham United 's defender Aaron Wan-Bissaka ( left ) tackling Leicester City 's midfielder Facundo Buonanotte during the English Premier League football match between the two teams at the King Power Stadium in Leicester , central England , on Dec 3 , 2024 . PHOTO : AFP <p> Palestinians walking in a devastated neighbourhood due to Israeli strikes in the southern Gaza Strip city of Khan Yunis on Dec 2 , 2024 , amid the ongoing war between Israel and Hamas . PHOTO : AFP <p> Press spokesman Benjamin Summa from Pro Aurum putting down a mint , in collaboration with the Austrian mint . The precious metal dealer presented an almost 3m gold tree consisting of 2,024 Vienna Philharmonic coins with a value of more than ? 5 million in Munich , Germany , on Dec 3 , 2024 . PHOTO ; REUTERS <p> A drone view showing the Citadel of Aleppo on Dec 3 , 2024 . The large medieval fortified palace in northern Syria is considered to be one of the oldest and largest castles in the world . PHOTO : REUTERS <p> Members of the 1st Battalion Welsh Guards preparing for a Ceremonial Welcome for the Emir of Qatar and his wife , at Horse Guards Parade in London , Britain , on Dec 3 , 2024 , on the first day of the Emir 's two-day state visit to Britain . PHOTO : AFP
