<p> Singapore Minister for Foreign Affairs Vivian Balakrishnan has thanked a team of doctors from the country who are providing telemedicine consultations for Gaza refugees . These Gaza refugees are being treated on a hospital ship led by the United Arab Emirates . <p> In an Instagram post , Vivian Balakrishnan is seen interacting with the team of medical professionals from the National University Hospital ( NUH ) , the KK Women 's and Children 's Hospital ( KKH ) and the Singapore Armed Forces ( SAF ) medical corps . <p> According to media reports , more than a million people in Gaza have been displaced by the Israel-Hamas conflict , which started on October 7 , 2023 , triggered by the unprecedented Hamas terrorist attack on Israel , and resulting in the massacre and kidnapping of hundreds of Israelis . Some of the hostages have been in captivity in Gaza for more than a year now , while Gaza city itself has been pounded by weapons of war , with civilians dying and fleeing in large numbers . <p> To help injured Gaza civilians , the Singapore team has been offering tele-consultations for about a month-and-a-half now . The team consists of doctors , surgeons , and paediatricians , and they are working with the international team on the UAE-led floating hospital , anchored at Al-Arish Port in northeastern Egypt . <p> The Singapore minister 's Instagram post said : " Grateful to our healthcare professionals from NUH , KKH , and the SAF who are participating in virtual case conferences that support medical care for casualties of the war in Gaza . They are part of an international team led by the UAE . " <p> The UAE has been a steadfast partner in these humanitarian efforts to express our compassion in meaningful ways . We will continue working with all our partners in the Middle East to provide more humanitarian relief in Gaza . We reiterate our call for an urgent ceasefire and the immediate unconditional release of all hostages . <p> Singapore Minister for Foreign Affairs Vivian Balakrishnan <p> The Instagram video posted by Balakrishnan had Singapore doctors talking about what led them to become a part of this telemedicine consultation initiative to serve the injured people of Gaza . Alongside physical injuries , these patients also need support for post-traumatic stress disorder ( PTSD ) . <p> Dr Raj Menon , Centre Director , National University Centre for Trauma , NUH , Singapore , is part of the Singapore telemedicine team for Gaza refugees . Screenshot courtesy : **28;961;TOOLONG <p> Dr Raj Menon , Centre Director , National University Centre for Trauma , NUH , said on the video : " We are fortunate to be in a region where there is safety . But I think all the more is that the impetus is on us then to step forward and reach out and to help people in need while we can . " <p> Thanking the health care professionals , Balakrishnan said that Singapore would " explore opportunities " to do even more to help the people of Gaza . <p> The Dubai-headquartered publication reported that the floating hospital " includes a medical and administrative staff of 100 people of various specialities , including anaesthesia , general surgery , orthopaedics , and emergency medicine , as well as nurses and paramedics " .
