<h> Jewish civilisation overcomes millennia of persecution <p> Through all the horrors that Jews have faced , including the Holocaust caused by Adolf Hitler , they have remained steadfast in their beliefs , beliefs that go back several millennia . They continue to greet even their foes with ' Shalom Aleichem ' . <p> A delegation from the American Jewish Committee has been visiting India for nearly a week , and are travelling around the country . Led by Jason Isaacson , a long-time office-holder of the AJC , the delegation comprises the Director of the AJC Asia-Pacific Center , Shira Loewenberg , and other high-ranking members of the Center . In a world where actions based on anti-Semitism crop up in different parts of the globe , it would have been a relief to come to India , a country where those who are anti-Semetic form a minuscule element of the population . As Shira Loewenberg puts it , " We ( the Jewish community ) feel at home here , and that the people like us . " They do , and for good reason . Jewish civilization has endured millennia of persecution , some with the intent of stamping out the Jewish faith from the world . Through all the horrors that Jews have faced , including the Holocaust caused by Adolf Hitler , they have remained steadfast in their beliefs , beliefs that go back several millennia . And yet , despite all the persecution and injustice that they have been subjected to , the Jewish people continue to greet even their foes with " Shalom Aleichem " ( Peace be upon you ) . Indeed , there is a popular song by the same title , which is sung by folks across the world . Shalom ( Peace ) is an oft-repeated word in the lexicon of members of the Jewish community . A greeting and a sentiment that has remained the same despite so much cruel conduct against members of the Jewish community , behaviour spanning such a long time . It is a matter of shame that the campuses of some of the most pricy universities in the United States have reverberated to anti-Semitic chants and worse , anti-Semitic actions such as violence against Jews on campus . The response by the Israeli Defense Forces ( IDF ) to the October 7 , 2023 terror attack by Hamas on Israel has been the excuse for several such actions , but it needs to be remembered that Israel has never struck first in the many wars the State of Israel has fought since it was founded in 1948 , but has only responded to an attack made on it by others . <p> In 1948 , the former colonial power , Britain , gave the State of Israel a much smaller portion of the Mandate territory than was the case after the war began just a day after the new state was born , in which its fledgling army was able to seize control of around three-fourths of the Mandate territory . In 1967 , another war was launched on Israel which it won within a week , and annexed still more land . After the 1948 war , several Arab states refused to recognize the new state , a policy that has been abandoned by many of the Arab states by now . In recent decades , some complacency had come to Israel that the state was no longer subject to attack , an illusion that was shattered by the Hamas terror strike . Why Prime Minister Netanyahu continued for so long to leave Hamas alone in Gaza despite it being controlled by a terror group is beyond comprehension , except that he would have assumed Hamas to act in a rational manner and avoid an attack on Israel which could be suicidal to the terror group . Such groups operate under their own version of rationality , and Hamas calculated that capturing several Jewish hostages made it immune from a significant IDF strike . They were mistaken , as the scale of cruelty of the October 7 , 2023 attack awoke Netanyahu from the delusion that Hamas was too small to risk Israeli vengeance . More than a year later , the war with Israel begun by Hamas continues , and by now , much of the military capabilities of proxies used by Iran against Israel , such as Hezbollah and Hamas , stand severely degraded . Rather than represent a victory for the Axis of Resistance ( to the existence of the State of Israel ) formed by Iran , the Hamas terror attack has led to the weakening of the Axis , much to the discomfiture of Iran . The 1940s Holocaust in Germany burned into the Jewish psyche the need to fight back at any attack and not to wait in the expectation that a visceral anti-Semite could change his or her ways . Not just Israel but the Jewish people as an entirety give as good or better than they get punishment . As for the people of India , the overwhelming majority like and even admire the Jewish community , and this has been reflected in the favourable emotions created by visits of members of the Jewish community to our country . The fightback against anti-Semitism is visible not only in members of the Jewish community but by large elements of the population in countries such as India . As for the AJC , the all-important Washington bureau is headed by a Jewish citizen of the US who is of Indian descent , Nissim Reuben , who has not abandoned his roots , remaining fluent in Gujarati , the language spoken by his ancestors .
