<p> The Syrian civil war is over , or so they claim . But for all we know , it could be just the end of one phase and the start of another . <p> PUNE : THE 11-DAY OFFENSIVE On 27 November -- the same day that Israel signed a ceasefire agreement with the Hezbollah in Lebanon , a conglomeration of Syrian rebel groups , led by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , stormed out of their strongholds and raced towards Damascus . They took the cities of Hama , Homs and Aleppo and stormed into the capital on 8 December , in just 11 days . President Bashar al Assad was forced to flee in a Russian IL-76 , that temporarily went off the radar in mid-flight , but eventually reached Moscow where he was given sanctuary . Even as the HTS leader Ahmad al-Sharaa -- who goes by the nom de guerre Abu Mohammed al Jolani -- announced from a mosque in Damascus , " the future is ours " , jubilant Syrians burst into the streets . The images of Bashar and his father Hafez were torn down and trampled underfoot . The Syrian flag was replaced by the three-starred , green , white and black flag of the rebels . Prisoners were released from the notorious Sednaya prisons , some holding up fingers to denote their years in captivity . Thousands of refugees began moving back from the neighbouring countries where they had sought refuge from the 13-year-long Syrian civil war . Almost overnight , Syria had changed , and the changes will realign the equations of West Asia completely . <p> Few will shed any tears for Assad . Much was expected from the moderate , soft-spoken Assad , when the ophthalmologist reluctantly took over power from his father Hafez al Assad in 2011 . But the hopes evaporated when the Arab Spring singed Syria in 2014 . Assad clamped down on the protesters with an iron fist , plunging the country into a civil war against a motley group of players like Al Qaeda , the Islamic State , Kurdish militia groups , the Syrian Democratic Front and others . It took Assad 13 years to crush the rebels -- using Russian and Iranian support and even indiscriminate bombing and chemical weapons against his own people . That war caused over 600,000 casualties and created over 10 million refugees . But when it seemed that Assad had finally cemented his position , the HTS and its allies launched the lightning offensive that overthrew a 51-year family regime in just 11 days . <p> The Hayat Tahrir al-Sham -- or The Organisation for the Liberation of the Levant -- is a Sunni Islamist organisation that grew in the turmoil of the civil war . Originally called Jabhat al Nusra , it was an affiliate of Al Qaeda ; it then turned towards the Islamic State , before it split ties with both and formed the Hayat Tahrir al-Sham with the merger of several rebel factions . Ironically , the group which is now feted , has been designated as a terrorist organisation by the United Nations , the USA and others , and its leader , Jolani , carries a $10 million reward on his head . But that now seems history . This extremist terror organisation is now hailed as the saviour of Syria , and for all practical purposes has adopted a moderate face -- for the time being , at least . <p> ROLE OF OTHER PLAYERS But how did the HTS and its allies sweep through Syria so easily and completely ? The poorly paid and demoralised Syrian Army is already fragmented and did not fight . They had been dependent on the Russian Air Force , and Hezbollah and Shia militia fighters from Iran , to bolster them during the civil war . This time , neither Russia , nor Iran was there to help . Russia is an Assad ally and has significant stakes in Syria with an airbase in Khmeimim , and a naval base in Tartus , which provides it with the only warm water port with access to the Mediterranean . But it has been preoccupied with the 34-month-long war in Ukraine , which now seems to be heading for some sort of a conclusion . Maybe they did not want to jeopardise the prospects of a negotiated peace when Trump takes over , by a needless entanglement in Syria . Iran too was unable to help . The proxies they use have been severely degraded . Hamas is virtually gone ; Hezbollah has been decapitated , and the Houthis are gasping for survival . They are no position to intervene now . The hidden hand behind this offensive is likely to be that of Turkey . Turkey has over 3 million Syrian refugees in their territory , and Assad had refused offers to get them back . This now creates the ground for their return . The return of over 10 million refugees from neighbouring countries where they had sought refuge from the civil war , is one of the major plus points of this new phase of conflict . Plus , Turkey has its own stakes in crushing the Kurds -- who seek a Kurdish homeland in the border areas of Turkey and Syria -- and this gives them an opportunity to do so . <p> Israel has claimed , with some justification , that their actions against Hamas , Hezbollah , the Houthis and Iran paved the way for this major development . Syria was another proxy in Iran 's " Axis of Resistance " and Assad a major Iranian ally . Syria also provided the only land route for Iran to supply its proxies in Gaza and Lebanon , and this has now been cut off . Iran has lost its proxies now , and who is next in line ? Iran itself ? Quite likely . Iran is diminished , its own defences have been breached and its limitations exposed . The fall of Assad could well be the signal for resistance groups inside Iran to rise against the repressive Ayatollahs -- with a little help from the USA and Israel , of course -- and a regime change looks very much on the cards . <p> It is significant that within a day of the fall of Damascus , Israeli jets hit a chemical factory and rocket production facilities in Syria -- presumably to prevent the assets falling into wrong hands . Around 400 air strikes hit Syrian military bases , that virtually destroyed the Syrian navy and air force and 70-80% of Syrian Army assets . Israeli troops also occupied the demilitarised buffer zone in the Golan Heights and Israel commandos took over Mount Hermon , the highest point on the Heights , which overlooks Israel itself , and has often been used by militants for observation and attacks into Israeli territory . Israel is now in complete control of the strategic heights which dominate Israel , Jordan , Syria and Lebanon and just 40 km from Damascus , and it is unlikely that they will ever be vacated . It is part of the nibbling actions that have begun in the chaos of Syria . Turkey too has encroached in the north to create a " safe zone " against the Kurds who seek to create their own state in the border areas there . <p> The USA , or rather Donald Trump has stated that , " this is not our fight , " indicating that it would not get involved . But it has its own interests in the region . 900 US troops are housed in bases within Syria . They would not like Islamic fundamentalism to take sway in the region . It is also a glorious opportunity to remove Russian , Chinese and Iranian influence completely , assert their own influence and create a power bloc of USA , Israel , Saudi and UAE that would reshape the power alignments of West Asia permanently . And what of Syria itself ? A new salvation government has been announced with a caretaker , Prime Minister Mohammed al Bashir , which is likely to continue till March 25 , when a new all-inclusive government would be formed . But will that really happen ? Will the HTS really be the moderates that they now proclaim themselves to be , or will they slip back to their old extremist avatar ? The group is a loose alliance of different groups with different agendas -- like the Kurd dominated Syrian Democratic Front ( supported by USA ) who want a Kurdish homeland , and the Turkey supported Syrian National Army which is at odds with them . Other groups also have pockets of influence in the south . Will that alliance hold , or will the armed groups all try to assert dominance in the areas they control ? Already there have been reports of fighting between the Kurdish groups and the Turkey supported factions , who have begun moving into Kurd dominated areas . The country is also ripped by sectarianism between the largely predominant Sunnis , and the Shias , Christians and Alawites who make up around 15% of the population . If the differences erupt , Syria could slip into another cycle of revenge and violence and may even splinter . This will draw radicals like Al Qaeda and the Islamic State , which can cause resurgence of Islamic fundamentalism in the region . <p> The Syrian civil war is over , or so they claim . But for all we know , it could be just the end of one phase and the start of another . It is more than the overthrow of a regime . It is a seismic moment that will shift the entire balance of power in the region . And the changes it brings in , may not be for the good . And with USA , Israel , Turkey , Iran , Russia , Saudi and other powers all having vested interests in Syria , the region could well be headed for another period of great instability and churn . <p> * Ajay Singh is the international award winning author of seven books and over 200 articles . He is a recipient of the Rabindranath Tagore International Award for Art and Literature , and a regular contributor to The Sunday Guardian .
