<h> State responsibility for climate must include impacts caused by armed conflict , Palestine tells top court <h> Alongside Mexico , the state of Palestine , represented by a team of counsels including Singapore-based international law expert Dr Nil ? fer Oral , highlighted often-ignored linkages between inter-state conflict and climate justice . <p> Gaza is in ruins after Israel 's year-long offensive . Not only would post-war reconstruction in Gaza be costly , it could add exponentially to emissions , said the delegation of the state of Palestine at the International Court of Justice 's climate hearings . Image : United Nations Development Programme <p> Just the first four months of the war in Gaza has produced greenhouse gas emissions of between 420,000 and 650,000 tonnes -- equivalent to the total annual emissions of nearly 26 states -- with fuel burned by Israeli fighter jets on bombing missions estimated to emit over 157,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent ( CO2e ) , confirmed climate scientists . But so far , none of these emissions have figured in the national carbon inventories of any states . <p> Now , international law experts representing the state of Palestine at the world 's largest climate hearings have argued that the " deleterious impacts " of these military activities , which affect Palestine directly as well as the world at large , should be taken into account when considering national climate responsibility . <p> All emissions from armed conflict and other military activities should be reported by states as part of their obligations under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change ( UNFCCC ) , said legal counsel in the Palestinian delegation Dr Nil ? fer Oral . Every state that does not exercise " the appropriate level of due diligence " to control or reduce its emissions , including from military activities and occupation , should incur international responsibility for its failure to do so , she said . <p> Singapore-based international law expert Dr Nilufer Oral presenting her case at the Hague . Image : ICJ <p> Speaking before the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) at The Hague last week , Oral , a seasoned negotiator and legal practitioner who heads up the Centre for International Law ( CIL ) at the National University of Singapore told judges that there is a need for clear guidance from the world 's top court on how international humanitarian law is applied in the context of Israel 's invasion of the Gaza Strip . <p> " In particular , we request that the Court clarify that the environment , including carbon sinks and reservoirs , is a civilian object and that the rules of distinction , proportionality and precaution apply to armed conflict and other military activities that generate greenhouse gas emissions and contribute to climate change , " she said . Oral was citing fundamental principles of international humanitarian law that protect " civilian objects " , such as schools , hospitals and public infrastructure , when states are engaged in warfare . <h> " <p> In most cases , states do not report greenhouse gas emissions from armed conflicts or include them in their total emissions . According to climate scientists , this results in a significant undercounting of the overall emissions ... and thus understates the magnitude of the problem . <p> Ammar Hijazi , ambassador of Palestine to international organisations in The Hague <p> Over the past two weeks , more than 100 countries and international organisations have presented their arguments in a landmark case in which the ICJ has been asked to give an advisory opinion on the obligations of states in respect of climate change . <p> The hearings , which concluded last Friday , saw more vulnerable states at the frontlines of the climate crisis locking horns with richer countries and arguing that decisions made by historically higher-emitting countries have unjustly devastated the lives of their peoples . In Asia , the Philippines and Bangladesh have asked the top court to recognise climate harm as a violation of international law . <p> In their submissions last week , Palestine and Mexico went further to spotlight the impacts of military-related emissions , and urged the court to recognise that conflict and climate change can often exacerbate one another . <p> Israel 's war on Gaza , stretching into its 15th month , has now killed more than 45,000 people , according to the latest statistics shared by health officials of the besieged and battered Palestinian enclave . Calls to reconstruct the Gaza Strip , buried under tonnes of debris as schools , shelters and hospitals are targeted by Israeli forces are becoming louder , though the UN has estimated that this will cost at least US$40 billion and any reconstruction effort will likely be the largest since 1945 . <p> " Significant undercount " of emissions <p> In his opening statement at the climate hearings , Ammar Hijazi , ambassador of Palestine to international organisations in The Hague , said that despite its great importance , the impacts on climate caused by armed conflict and other military activities , including situations of occupation , has not yet been adequately addressed . <p> Hijazi cited the latest assessment report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change ( IPCC ) that there is high certainty that global warming will exceed 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels after 2030 , even if current pledges by parties under the Paris Agreement are fulfilled . " As ominous as this conclusion is , it understates the problem , " he added . <p> He said : " In most cases , states do not report greenhouse gas emissions from armed conflicts or include them in their total emissions . According to climate scientists , this results in a significant undercounting of the overall emissions ... and thus understates the magnitude of the problem . " <p> For example , the ambassador highlighted how Palestine is responsible for less than 0.001 per cent of global emissions yet grapples with unprecedented , severe climate events . " Israel 's illegal occupation also curtails Palestine 's ability to support an effective international climate policy . " <p> Palestine is taking action to reduce 17.5 per cent of its greenhouse gas emissions by 2040 under the current status quo , but its goal could be raised to 26.6 per cent if Israel 's occupation of the territory ends , Hijazi shared . The state had submitted its first Nationally Determined Contribution to the UNFCCC in October 2021 . <p> " There can be no doubt that the ongoing illegal Israeli belligerent occupation of Palestine and its discriminatory policies have clear negative climate effects . " <p> Kate Mackintosh , executive director of the UCLA Law Promise Institute Europe and another legal counsel on the team representing Palestine , highlighted how the tonnage of missiles dropped in just six months has surpassed the World War II bombing of Dresden , Hamburg and London combined , and that these activities have emitted significant amounts of greenhouse gases . <p> These numbers also only represent " a fraction of the total conflict-related greenhouse gas emissions " into the atmosphere , she said . " Post-war reconstruction following other armed conflicts has been found to produce exponentially more emissions than the conduct of hostilities , " she argued . Estimates show that factoring in reconstruction would push total emissions produced to over 52 million tonnes of CO2e . <p> The legal case to secure an advisory opinion from the ICJ is led by the Global South , including the small Pacific island nation of Vanuatu . ICJ will issue its opinion likely in 2025 , and although the decision is not legally-binding , it could potentially be a key reference for climate change-driven litigation around the world .
