<p> After the discovery of oil in 1966 , Dubai transformed within a single generation , constructing artificial islands visible from space , the world 's tallest tower , gilded hotels and indoor ski slopes . In many ways , the most populous city in the United Arab Emirates is a carnival mirror reflection of over-the-top luxury , including high-end outposts of famous international chefs and futuristic constructions ( like the new Museum of the Future , complete with roaming robots ) . While that is the Dubai that many visitors experience , this itinerary instead adjusts that mirror to reveal some of the worlds beneath the glossy surface -- in the Russian fur sold in sweltering souks , the happy commotion of picnics on night beaches , the immigrant cooking and the nostalgia of an 18th-century fishing and pearling village transformed by visions of the future . <h> FRIDAY <h> 4pm Ride to the future <p> Museum of the Future . ( Photo : Katarina Premfors/The New York Times ) <p> In Dubai 's skyscraper-filled financial district , life in the year 2071 is imagined inside the interactive Museum of the Future . The seven-storey structure , which was designed with the help of an algorithm , is shaped like a human eye and engraved in Arabic calligraphy . Lift off to an imagined space station in an elevator simulating commercial space travel , press a button to watch nature come to life in a digital re-creation of the Amazonian rainforest , browse a DNA library of thousands of species and check out a flying school bus . If you come across a resident robot ( like a penguin " flying " above or a roving dog ) , wave to start an interaction ( entry , 149 dirhams , or about US$40.50 ) . <h> 7pm Taste a world gone by <p> Walk a short distance to the Jumeirah Emirates Tower to relax among vines and palm trees at Ninive , an alfresco cocktail lounge that is an urban reimagination of the Hanging Gardens of Babylon . In alcoves made from brass and wood , under dancing lantern lights , settle into cushions woven in geometric Al Sadu fabric and sip a cocktail infused with tamarind ( 80 dirhams ) while sharing a plate of za'atar chickpea dip ( 60 dirhams ) and shisha ( 160 dirhams ) . The experience is something of a mix between a majlis ( Arabian sitting room ) and a caravanserai ( the style of inns dotting land routes along the ancient Silk Road ) . Note that it is illegal to drink alcohol in public , but it is permitted in licensed restaurants , hotels and bars . <h> 9pm Dine at a hidden bar <p> Honeycomb Hi-Fi , inspired by Japanese listening bars , is hidden behind a record store in downtown Dubai . ( Photo : Katarina Premfors/The New York Times ) <p> At Honeycomb Hi-Fi , you can enjoy izakaya-style dishes like seaweed salad or chicken yakitori skewers . ( Photo : Katarina Premfors/The New York Times ) <p> A 15-minute drive south in downtown Dubai , at the Pullman Hotel , hidden behind a record store and past a dark vestibule narrower than a pair of shoulders , is Honeycomb Hi-Fi . In the dimly lit dining room , inspired by Japanese listening bars , enjoy izakaya-style dishes like seaweed salad ( 46 dirhams ) or chicken yakitori skewers ( 55 dirhams ) with cocktails made with Roku gin and sake ( 65 to 80 dirhams ) to a soundtrack of sets by DJs from Lebanon , Egypt and Sudan . In an anteroom is an art gallery currently showing photographs documenting the sound systems of the cumbia music scene in Latin America . <h> 2pm Eat vegetarian thali <p> Take a taxi 10 minutes west to Karama , a working-class neighbourhood of low-rise buildings with saris and pyjamas hung to dry , and follow the aroma of ghee into Maharaja Bhog , a multicourse , all-you-can-eat restaurant with the ambience of an Indian wedding party that specialises in vegetarian thali , a platter featuring many small dishes ( 59 dirhams per adult ) . Wash your hands in a copper bowl that is brought to your table and take in the cheerful chaos of clinking spoons , the hiss of frying oil and laughter over the hum of classical Indian music . A rotating cast of waiters appears , swinging serving bowls over your head and doling out shallow pools of chutney alongside a selection of curries , dals , roti and rice from the western Indian states of Rajasthan and Gujarat. <h> 8pm Eat seafood by a harbour <p> Choose your dinner adventure . Dig into salmon carpaccio , yellowtail sushi and Indomie instant noodles mixed with beef chorizo at 3Fils , a diner by the Jumeirah Fishing Harbor , while taking in the breeze and the view of fishing boats and water scooters . No alcohol , no reservations ( the line moves quickly ) ; ( dinner for two , around 200 dirhams ) . Or join a river of traffic turning into Antar or Al Ijaza Cafeteria , both near Jumeirah Beach Road , two beloved , neon-lit fast-food storefronts serving shawarma , porotta flatbreads rolled around kebabs and milky chai since the 1990s , before the homogenizing bulldozer of global food chains arrived . Try the hassan mathar ( 9 dirhams ) , a pocket sandwich with spit-roasted chicken , cheese , fries and hot sauce . <h> SUNDAY <h> 7am Bike through the desert <p> Al Qudra Cycle Track . ( Photo : Katarina Premfors/The New York Times ) <p> Watch the sun come up over the vast Al Marmoom Desert as you bike along Al Qudra Cycle Track , a 30-minute drive or Uber ride east from the city centre . Rent a bike at Trek Bicycle Store ( 166 dirhams for two hours ) at the start of the dedicated cycling path , which has loops suitable for various levels of riders and groups , and is equipped with rest stops and water stations . The thrill of riding past undulating dunes , ghaf trees and date palms , and glimpsing Arabian oryxes ( native long-horned antelopes ) and camels in the wild will make waking early worth it . Stop for rest roughly 4 miles in at Al Qudra Lakes , an oasis that attracts migratory birds including flocks of flamingos . Take in the sounds of families stretching out on picnic mats , peeling fruit with pocket knives and humming songs . <h> 11am Have brunch <p> Wipe off the dust and head west to Mama'esh , a Palestinian restaurant in the Al Manara neighbourhood that feels like a family 's living room , with walls covered in photographs , artifacts and mementos of daily life in the West Bank , east Jerusalem and the Gaza Strip . There is a ticker announcing prayer times and a shelf crowded with herbs and recipe books . Mama'esh specialises in manakish , the traditional flatbread baked in stone ovens with olive oil sourced from Palestinian villages and topped with za'atar , cheese or meat . Try the foul mudammas ( spiced fava beans ) , cheese manakish with hummus , and a stew of spiced eggplant , lentils and pomegranates ( brunch for two , around 100 dirhams ) . <h> Noon Take a yacht out <p> ( Photo : Katarina Premfors/The New York Times ) <p> Hire a yacht , staffed with a crew , which costs less of an arm and a leg than it sounds ( 450 dirhams an hour for up to 10 adults and children with Everest Yacht Charter ; minimum rental is two hours ) . You 'll leave behind the hustle of the city , drawn toward the lull of the sea as you taste the salt in the air and take in the skyline from a different perspective , cruising past the sail-shaped Burj Al Arab hotel ; the palm-shaped , artificial islands of Palm Jumeirah ; and the Arabian archway of the Atlantis hotel . Bring along a portable speaker to play your own music , as well as your brunch leftovers , swimwear and a change of clothes so you can anchor midsea and jump into the water . <h> WHERE TO STAY <p> Jumeirah Al Naseemis a beachfront resort that is part of a chain of interconnected hotels with sand-coloured villas and suites , a water park , lush gardens , traditional wind towers ( which catch cool air to ventilate buildings ) , a souk and a palm-fringed canal . The rooms have panoramic ocean views , and the villas have direct access to the private beach . Rooms start at 2,401 dirhams ( about US$654 ) .
