<p> Lt Gen Satish Dua 's book offers insights and personal experiences about the story of Nazir Ahmad Wani , a terrorist turned hero , who was the recipient of two Sena Medals and a posthumous Ashoka Chakra . <p> PUNE : Amongst the plethora of books emerging on Kashmir , General Satish Dua 's , " A General Reminisces " stands out for originality and content . General Dua -- himself a life-long soldier who has seen Kashmir intimately for over 40 years -- offers insights and personal experiences about the story of Nazir Ahmad Wani , a terrorist turned hero , who was the recipient of two Sena Medals and a posthumous Ashoka Chakra . Nazir served in the same regiment as the author , who had interacted often with him at different stages of his life . The personal touch which is provided gives the book a vivid character that brings out Kashmir , its people , its culture and concept of Kashmiriyat , its troubled past and the future that it holds . <p> The book plays along three narratives . The first of course is the story of Naseer Ahmed Wani , a young Kashmiri boy who initially joined the militant ranks , then joined the government forces and went on to become one of the most decorated soldiers of the Indian Army . As General Dua himself puts it , " Much is known about Burhan Wani who became a glorified terrorist , but few know of the other Wani -- Lance Naik Nazir Ahmad Wani -- who had sacrificed his life for the country . " <p> The other narrative is that of Kashmir itself . General Dua traces the development of Kashmir , right from the early rumblings and the slow descent into insurgency . He brings out the subtle signs -- the use of " Tumhare India " , the anger at a cricket match when India defeated Pakistan , the internal politics and the allegedly rigged elections of 1987 , which was the trigger to violent decades of insurgency . He also highlights the slow process of getting the state back on the rails and the impact of " Life after Article 370 . " This , he feels , has not only greatly improved the security situation , but also enhanced the lives of thousands of Kashmiris . There is great hope , and also a need for great caution , as he warns . <p> The third narrative is that of his own journey in uniform . It began with him being commissioned into the Jammu and Kashmir Rifles , ( JAKLI ) , a regiment with troops from Kashmir itself . The different tenures in different ranks and positions culminated with the command of 15 Corps , the Corps Headquarters responsible for Kashmir . These experiences give a warm personal touch to the book . <p> The story of Nazir is brought through all these three narratives . As a young boy born to a humble farmer and dhaba owner , he lived in harmony in his village with Kashmiri Pandits -- especially his respected Pandit teacher . Then , " In the 1990s things started changing . Strange men moved in the shadows of the village , talking to the youth or visiting the mosque . Some nights they heard gunshots . " Changes were coming in Kashmir , which led to the exodus of Kashmiri Pandits around 19 January 1990 -- a date when declarations and announcements were made for Pandits to leave or be killed . <p> Nazir 's slow indoctrination into militant ranks , began with him delivering letters and packages , and running errands for unknown terrorists , till he became an overground worker for the al Jihad group . Other members -- many of them friends of his -- were sent to training camps in Pakistan , from where they would return to carry out terrorist acts for a sum of money . Gen Dua calls it " A full-blown cottage industry . " He also brings out very well the feeling of confusion and uncertainty that Nazir and hundreds of other Kashmiris , when they got caught against their wishes , in his cycle of terror and violence . Nazir moved back from the brink just in time , and joined the Ikhwanis , a group composed of reformed militants who had been recruited to counter the terrorists . He stayed with them till he joined the Territorial Army battalion of the Jammu and Kashmir Light Infantry -- a Home and Hearth battalion composed of locals from the area . Here he truly excelled as he came into his own as a soldier . With his innate courage and skills and intimate knowledge of the land , he participated in a series of operations , eventually winning two Sena Medals for gallantry . General Dua brings out the operations in meticulous detail . He highlights the actions of the soldiers and their officers , brings out the dangers and emotions they feel , and even captures the sense of boredom that sometimes creeps in when the soldiers perform the same duty night after night , leading to a complacency that can cost lives . <p> Nazir 's last roar came in 2018 , in an operation called Batagund , when he closed in on to a terrorist in a burning house , killed him in hand-to-hand combat and killed another terrorist before succumbing . His widow , Mahajabeen , received the Ashoka Chakra -- India 's highest peace time gallantry award -- from the President during the Republic Day 2019 . The life of this brave son of India through the tumulus days of insurgency in Kashmir is beautifully brought out , with his emotions , hopes , aspirations and fears . General Dua effortlessly brings out the story . Along the way , he offers vignettes and glimpses of Kashmiriyat , and the customs and traditions they follow . He also brings out the human angle with great compassion and sympathy , as he delves into the psyche of ordinary Kashmiris who were caught in the conflict . " A General Reminisces " is a masterly book by a seasoned soldier-writer , which offers a birds-eye view of Kashmir . It brings out the story of the soldier , the militant , the Kashmiri and the state itself , and is one that should be read by all , seeking to understand the problem of Kashmir and savoured for the tales and insights that it imparts . <p> ABOUT THE AUTHOR Lt Gen Satish Dua , PVSM , UYSM , SM , VSM has served four decades in the Army , retiring as Chief of Integrated Defence Staff in 2018 . A counter terrorist specialist , he has served extensively in Kashmir , and as Corps Commander in Srinagar , planned and executed the surgical strikes in 2016 . He has also been India 's defence attach ? in Vietnam , Cambodia and Laos . A highly respected defence analyst , he writes and lectures extensively on strategic affairs and security . <p> * Ajay Singh is the international award winning author of seven books and over 200 articles including his latest book " Ukraine , Gaza Taiwan .... A World at War " , which examines the conflicts around the globe . He is a regular contributor to The Sunday Guardian .
