<p> SINGAPORE : As 2024 draws to a close , in case someone needs to read this , it 's okay if the year did not go as planned . It did n't for many . We still got through it , and that in itself is worth celebrating . <p> Political upheaval and wars dominated the headlines unsurprisingly , but it would be a mistake to focus solely on the doom and gloom each year . Let 's start with the bright spots in the year . <h> HOLDING ON TO THE BRIGHT SPOTS <p> Only 17 years old and Maximilian Maeder carried the weight of a nation of his shoulders . Eight years after Joseph Schooling 's historic swimming gold , the kitefoiler rode his way to a bronze medal at the 2024 Paris Olympics . Granted a deferment from National Service , everyone keenly awaits what else this teenager -- wise beyond his years -- will achieve . <p> Yip Pin Xiu wowed us yet again in the pool , with a historic feat of Paralympic golds in three successive Games in not one , but two events . And even if Olympic badminton players -- Yeo Jia Min , Loh Kean Yew , Jessica Tan and Terry Hee -- did not take the podium , their valiant performances cemented their places and the sport in our hearts . <p> And did you score tickets to Taylor Swift 's Eras Tour in Singapore in March ? Economists say " Swiftonomics " boosted the first quarter GDP , but more intangible was the sense of fun and excitement in the air . Just do n't forget that " boring " Singapore is partly why it draws big entertainment acts . <h> AIR TRAVEL WOES <p> The fear of flying is generally seen as irrational , given statistics show it is still the safest mode of transportation . But besides the global CrowdStrike outage in July that grounded many flights , 2024 saw a spate of airplane incidents that must have made travellers shudder . <p> The year started with an explosive collision in Japan 's Haneda Airport in Tokyo , with all 379 onboard Japan Airlines flight JAL516 evacuated safely . Tragically , the year ended with another fiery crash in South Korea , with all but two of the 181 people onboard Jeju Air flight 7C2216 killed , with investigations still ongoing . <p> In May , one passenger on Singapore Airlines ( SIA ) flight SQ321 died after sudden severe turbulence threw some passengers out of their seats . Though SIA showed exemplary crisis management , turbulence is a common flight experience that is expected to get worse with climate change . <p> American planemaker Boeing also came under fire for a series of incidents , including one where a door panel of a 737 MAX 9 jet blew off in mid-air . China 's COMAC may not rock the Airbus-Boeing duopoly for now , but it is a matter of time . <h> Related : <h> A SUPER YEAR OF ELECTIONS <p> If 2024 was the year of elections , 2025 will be the year of major uncertainty . <p> From India and Japan to France , voters raged against the incumbents and ushered in a new era of coalition politics . South Korea is still in crisis after a short-lived imposition of martial law in December , with its impeached president facing arrest and his immediate replacement already thrown out . <p> The world is bracing for what Donald Trump 's second term might bring : Could he " settle " Russia 's war in Ukraine as the three-year mark looms ? How might he deal with the tinderbox that is the Middle East ? Violence continues in Gaza even as the Israel-Hezbollah ceasefire seems to hold and the regime in Syria has collapsed . <p> Not just aimed at China , Southeast Asia may also come under extra scrutiny for the Trump administration 's tariffs . Whether US-China ties will improve or deteriorate is hard to say , but 2025 looks to be a challenging year for Chinese President Xi Jinping as he steers a slowing economy . <h> Related : <h> SOUTHEAST ASIA 'S STEADY TRAJECTORY <p> Against this backdrop , things have been more stable , less dramatic in Southeast Asia . Indonesia completed a peaceful power transition with Prabowo Subianto taking the helm in October , though the question of Joko Widodo 's influence still hangs in the air . <p> Thailand installed Paetongtarn Shinawatra as prime minister in August after her predecessor was given the boot via the courts . Her accession sets the stage for the return of her father Thaksin . <p> The former Thai leader 's impact may first be felt in ASEAN , after he was appointed informal adviser to Anwar Ibrahim as Malaysia assumes the chairmanship in the coming year . Perhaps Thaksin 's experience and connections may prove valuable in tackling the crisis in Myanmar after the 2021 coup . <h> Related : <h> SINGAPORE 'S POLITICAL LANDSCAPE <p> In May , Lawrence Wong was sworn in as Prime Minister of Singapore , in a generational leadership transition that is unexciting by design . Mr Wong has promised a different leadership style and as the first Prime Minister to be born post-independence , like many in his 4G team and the electorate , expectations for tangible change will be high . <p> 2024 also saw two high-profile court cases involving politicians . In a twist to what was expected to be a protracted legal battle , former transport minister S Iswaran pleaded guilty to charges of taking gifts as a public servant and was sentenced to 12 months ' jail in October . The trial of Leader of Opposition Pritam Singh was held in November , on charges of lying under oath to a parliamentary committee . The verdict is fixed for Feb 17 . <p> And of course in 2025 , every other conversation will be about the upcoming General Election , which must be called by November . The key milestone to look out for will be the formation of the Electoral Boundaries Review Committee , and previous polls suggest the election could be called four months or more after this announcement . <h> Related : <h> AN " ELECTION BUDGET " <p> Budget 2025 on Feb 18 will thus invariably be seen as an " election Budget " . And though inflation has been easing , cost of living will still be top of mind after the last arduous years . <p> Add to that recency bias , and several 2024 issues will probably keep coming up in discussion . Public transport made the news on several occasions , in particular , the six-day MRT disruption on the East-West Line in September which affected millions of commuters . In January , public uproar prompted a reversal in the plan to phase out EZ-Link cards in favour of the newer SimplyGo . <p> Still , there were bright spots for many segments of the population , which could prove transformative for families and society over the longer term . <p> HDB Build-to-Order flats in the October exercise were the first launched under the new classification system of Standard , Plus and Prime flats -- with choicier locations coming with more subsidies to maintain affordability but also with stricter restrictions and subsidy clawbacks for fairness . <p> The Job Seeker Support Scheme announced in August will be launched in April next year , providing payouts over six months to those who have been retrenched , a recognition of economic headwinds and changing business strategies that have led to persistent layoffs in the last two years .
