<h> China , Iran vow to uphold shared interests <p> When Foreign Minister Wang Yi met with Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi on Saturday in Beijing , the two diplomats underscored the strength and resilience of the bilateral ties and pledged to make concerted efforts to navigate regional and global challenges . <h> Zhao Jia <p> BEIJING -- Amid growing instability and uncertainty in the world , China and Iran have reaffirmed their commitment to pragmatic cooperation and enhanced multilateral coordination to benefit the people of both countries while contributing to regional and global peace , stability and development . <p> When Foreign Minister Wang Yi met with Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi on Saturday in Beijing , the two diplomats underscored the strength and resilience of the bilateral ties and pledged to make concerted efforts to navigate regional and global challenges . <p> The two-day visit , which began on Friday , was the first for Araghchi since he took office in August . Araghchi was also the first official of the new Iranian government , which was established in July , to come to China . <p> Regarding the Middle East , China and Iran have agreed that the region belongs to its people and should not serve as a battleground for major powers ' rivalry or fall victim to geopolitical competition and conflicts among countries outside the region . <p> " The international community must respect the sovereignty , territorial integrity and legitimate concerns of nations in the Middle East , " Wang said , urging countries to honor the choices of the people in the region while respecting their rich historical and cultural traditions . <p> Wang expressed hope that all parties could contribute constructively to peace and stability in the Middle East , rather than point fingers or arbitrarily impose sanctions , exert pressure , instigate confrontation or resort to force . <p> The two foreign ministers also emphasized the need to address the Palestinian question by respecting and restoring the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people and ending the occupation . They also stressed the urgency of an immediate ceasefire , full troop withdrawal and emergency humanitarian assistance to transform the region from chaos to order . <p> Regarding Syria , both countries reiterated that Syria 's sovereignty , independence and territorial integrity should be respected , calling for joint promotion of combating terrorism , advancing reconciliation and facilitating the humanitarian process . <p> Li Shaoxian , director of the China-Arab Research Institute at Ningxia University , said : " Intervention by major powers looms large behind the Gaza conflict and drastic change in Syria , which touch the nerves of the international community . China reiterating its support for Middle East countries in rejecting external interference demonstrates its crucial role in upholding justice in international affairs . " <p> On the Iran nuclear issue , Wang reiterated China 's advocacy of preserving the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action and resuming negotiations with a constructive approach , saying that Beijing opposes sanctions and coercion , and supports Iran in defending its legitimate rights and interests . <p> Araghchi acknowledged China 's vital contribution to facilitating and preserving the JCPOA , saying that Teheran will maintain close communication with Beijing . <p> Developing and deepening the comprehensive strategic partnership with China remains a priority in Iran 's foreign policy , he said , pledging the country 's staunch support for China 's positions on its core interests . <p> In a signed article by Araghchi that was published by People 's Daily on Friday , the Iranian foreign minister said that cooperation between the two ancient civilizations in Asia has withstood the test of time . He also highlighted the importance of the visit in shaping the " next golden 50 years " of strategic cooperation between the two countries . <p> During the meeting , the two sides agreed to advance the implementation of a comprehensive cooperation plan signed in March 2021 . <p> China has remained Iran 's largest trading partner for many years and has become an important export market for Iranian products . The two countries have inked multiple agreements and deepened Belt and Road cooperation . <p> Li , from the China-Arab Research Institute , said that " the long-standing partnership between China and Iran enjoys a solid foundation , and the two nations have maintained close dialogue over the years on various issues to address shared concerns " . <p> Furthermore , it is imperative for the two nations to reinforce cooperation amid escalating tensions in the region and numerous international challenges , Li said . <p> Experts noted that Iran and China share common interests and concerns , not only at the bilateral and regional levels , but also on trans-regional and international platforms , such as the Shanghai Cooperation Organization and BRICS , of which both countries are member states . <p> During the talks , the two sides vowed to further strengthen collaboration within the SCO and BRICS to uphold common interests . <p> China has assumed the rotating presidency of the SCO , which Araghchi said in the article will open new opportunities for collective cooperation . He added that the two countries will work with other Global South nations and stand on the right side of history to resist unilateralism and bullying .
