<h> Truce in Gaza , really ! <p> There is a desperate attempt for cessation of hostilities in Gaza . This time around it is a joint move on the part of war-criminal Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his patron , US President Joe Biden . The half-cooked strategy proposes a three-phase plan that calls for an end to war and that too solely on the Jewish state 's terms and conditions . Biden , who is in rough waters on the eve of the presidential vote , is eager to come out of the mess and wants Tel Aviv to take it as it comes its way . A glance at the salient features suggests that Israel is willing to wind down operations in Gaza by agreeing for a temporary truce , in lieu of return of some hostages held by Hamas . The second phase , which shall never dawn keeping in view the hoodwinking tactics , would go for a negotiated settlement leading to release of remaining live captives . <p> The plan is not being read well by the Israeli establishment itself , as there are a lot of misgivings . Israel wants complete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ militia that swung surprise on October 7 last year wants a guaranteed end to the Gaza offensive , withdrawal of all invading forces , and free movement for Palestinians and reconstruction aid . But that is nowhere on the spelt-out agenda by Washington and Tel Aviv . That means status quo will prevail , and the death toll which has topped 36,000 will keep rising . Moreover , Israel also had the audacity to designate the UN agency for Palestinian refugees ( UNRWA ) as a ' terrorist organisation ' , inviting severe displeasure from Qatar and Egypt who had been trying to soften the equation by persuading Hamas for a climb-down . <p> This plan is on the rocks well before it could see the light of the day . Similar overtures from the White House have fallen flat , simply because Israel knows that it can get away with anything . The ridicule to ICJ rulings and world public opinion are cases in point . That will remain so until and unless there is a paradigm change and Netanyahu and his war cabinet are taken to task .
