<p> WHILE the UN Security Council had earlier this week adopted a US-backed resolution calling for a ceasefire in Gaza -- which was basically an endorsement of President Joe Biden 's ' peace plan ' and supposedly designed to stop the slaughter -- Israel 's actions both before and after the resolution 's adoption indicate it is in no mood for peace . Before the resolution was passed , Israel raided the Nuseirat camp to rescue a number of hostages . Palestinians have described the operation as a massacre , resulting in nearly 300 fatalities . Even after the resolution was passed , Tel Aviv has continued its relentless pounding of Gaza . As these lines were being written on Thursday , the Israeli war machine was unleashing destruction on Rafah . The Americans , meanwhile , have publicly called on Hamas to ratify the deal . The problem here is not the Palestinian factions ; it is Israel . Hamas had earlier welcomed the UNSC resolution , though it called for a permanent ceasefire and a withdrawal of Israeli forces from Gaza . The Israeli leadership , meanwhile , has maintained ambiguity over its stance on the ceasefire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indicate Israel 's true feelings about the peace plan . <p> America 's focus appears to be misplaced . Instead of piling pressure on the Palestinians , Washington needs to tell its ' ironclad ' allies in Tel Aviv to immediately end hostilities . But that is unlikely to happen , as the US , at all international forums , has acted as Israel 's primary advocate rather than a neutral peacemaker . Moreover , Mr Biden 's push for peace is not likely influenced by any empathy for the over 37,000 dead Palestinians Israel has butchered . November approaches , and the US leader is more worried about a messy Middle East war dampening his chances at re-election . Only a ceasefire that demands all sides immediately silence their guns can work , that too if the international community threatens to isolate Israel in case of non-compliance . Without that , hopes for peace are fanciful .
