<p> Bills proposed by National Security Minister Itamar Ben-Gvir 's Otzma Yehudit will not receive the backing of the coalition , Coalition Whip MK Ofir Katz said on Sunday . " From now until further notice , legislative proposals from Otzma Yehudit members who voted in opposition to coalition discipline will not receive coalition support and will not be added to the agenda , " Katz noted . <p> This comes after Ben-Gvir voted against the Trapped Profits Bill last week , putting the coalition 's majority in jeopardy . The coalition was able to pass the law only after Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu left the hospital and Likud MK Boaz Bismuth left the shiva mourning house to cast the decisive votes . <p> Government bills from the National Security Ministry will be reviewed on their merits , and only urgent ones related to national security will be approved , Katz said . " Such a significant and ongoing blow to the coalition 's stability and conduct will not be ignored . It is inconceivable to issue an apology while simultaneously promising to continue disrupting the coalition 's work . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plenum ahead of a budget vote , December 31 , 2024 ( credit : FLASH90/CHAIM GOLDBERG ) Otzma Yehudit said in response , " Our ideology has never been deterred by ' punishments . ' That was the case when we fought against the policy in Gaza even before October 7 , when we changed the conditions for terrorists in prison despite opposition , when we reformed the police force , and exactly the same applies to our fight to dismiss the oppositional attorney-general . <p> " The same will be true now in our struggle against the severe harm caused by Finance Ministry officials to Israel 's police and prison service , as well as the closure of police stations and readiness units , " it said.Ben-Gvir commented on the sanction in a post on X/Twitter . " We will continue to vote according to our principles until a solution is reached regarding the prevention of police station closures , the emergency standby squads , and the cuts to the salaries of police officers , prison guards , and all of Israel 's national security forces . "
