<p> It was the " hottest ticket " in Chicago , designed to spawn a thousand pieces about what the party meant . Two thousand people RSVP 'd . " I am not kidding when I say this is the best political party I 've ever been to , " the anti-gun youth activist David Hogg told a reporter . " This is where Gen Z is . " <p> He was speaking at the " Hotties for Harris " event , held at a polished warehouse space midway through the Democratic National Convention last August . When I got there around midnight , a giant screen displayed floating images of Tim Walz 's head and hundreds of free condoms reading " Fuck Project 2025 " were scattered and discarded all over the floor . At least a couple hundred people were still dancing . Every third person was wearing one of those ubiquitous camouflage Harris-Walz caps that had become an unlikely fashion item for Brown and Oberlin graduates working to elect a ticket that pundits and consultants seemed to believe might capture a serious slice of votes from America 's hunting and fishing dads . " Democratic party girls , " as Claudia Conway , the 19-year-old daughter of George and Kellyanne Conway described herself , and TikTokers with millions of followers like Mattie Westbrouck had been invited by the score . <p> Off to the back was a little purpose-built room with a display of free birth control , a " Wall of Weirdos " displaying photos of Republican officials , and a wall of so-called " hotties " who supported Harris , like Beto O'Rourke , Jason Kelce , and Elizabeth Warren , their portraits all framed and washed from overhead in the lime green Brat hue that seemed , at least for a little bit , like it might soon ride a wave of good feelings all the way to the Oval Office . <p> " I 'm a Democrat , " said one national labor leader . " I 'm going to die one , because I 've been one forever . But here 's the problem . What about the next generation and the next generation ? " <p> Florida Representative Maxwell Frost , the youngest member of Congress , was standing quietly by the bar . He looked like he had partied himself out for the night . He replied monosyllabically as a couple of reporters tried to engage him . I turned and began speaking to a young woman who worked for a branding consultancy called Propper Daley , which had helped put the party on . She told me they 'd been doing events like it around the country . " We went to bars , gave out a lot of free ice cream , a lot of free Plan B , " she said . She used the phrase " content-driven strategy " twice . " We represent brands , celebrities , foundations , " she said . " There were a lot of creators coming to the DNC who did n't have much to do . So we decided we 'd throw a party . " <p> I excused myself to go to the restroom and catch some fresh air . A security guard stood watch inside the men 's room . I watched him block someone from going into a stall and caught his eye to inquire whether he was there to prevent people from going in to snort stimulants . He raised his eyebrows and gave as much of an answer as he could possibly been allowed to give . " What do you think ? " I stepped outside , hoping to bum a cigarette , and noticed that there was n't a single person who 'd come out for a smoke . <p> These days it would have been much more surprising to find a party full of young Republicans where no one was out smoking or with a chaperone in the bathroom to make sure nobody did drugs . Democrats had started looking -- if not to themselves , then at least to much of the country -- like our national party of rule followers and honor students . Republicans had begun to gleefully lean into the idea of their party as the home of outsiders , party boys turned Cabinet picks , and , as the wall put it , " weirdos . " <p> This shift has been more apparent online than in real life . But as Democrats had coalesced around a single-minded " fixation , " as a Democratic member of Congress put it to me later , on Donald Trump and defending against the epochal threat they believed he poses , the party had found itself in a trap . Democrats had brought together everyone from leftists to neoconservatives -- a " Sanders-Harris-Cheney coalition , " as TheWashington Post reporter Jeff Stein put it , in a popular front to defend democracy . But in an era when 60 percent of Americans believed our democracy needed major changes , it looked to many voters like this coalition represented a well-off and well-educated establishment interested in preserving a status quo many regular Americans had come to despise . For the first time in modern history , the party would end up winning a majority of affluent voters and losing a majority of voters making less than $50,000 a year . Democrats , by dint of standing in opposition to a populist insurgency , had started to morph into what looked like America 's establishment . <p> For decades , Democrats contested national elections less by uniting voters around a shared political vision than by functioning as a coalition of regional and ethnic voting blocs -- thrown together in opposition to the interests of generally white , generally Protestant , asset-holding comfortably bourgeois voters who tended to reside in the leafier precincts of the Northeast and upper Midwest . The idea of the Democratic Party as the home of outsiders set against this proper establishment goes back to days long before left and right were meaningful dividing lines in American politics . It is in some ways the fundamental feature of the party 's DNA . <p> In contemporary history , even as a bipartisan " establishment consensus " came to shape both the style and substance of American politics , it tended to be Republicans who openly aligned with Chamber of Commerce types , our federal spy and security agencies , and our military commitments abroad . Now Republicans of this stripe , from Liz Cheney to former congressman Adam Kinzinger to former George W. Bush speechwriter David Frum , were loudly supporting the Harris-Walz ticket . The party would soon face four years of playing rearguard defense of all those institutions of state and long-held political norms that Republicans have been cheerfully set to attack . <p> I left and walked back toward Lake Michigan . I ended up at a Greek after-hours bar , where a trio of drunken young Harris campaign staffers offered me a shot of Fernet-Branca . " What we mean when we call them weird , " one very large young man sweating in a black suit told me , " is that they 're fucking irresponsible people . Put that down . It 's actually cool to be a responsible steward of a fucking democracy ! " Two young women in floral-print dresses gave a small cheer . That week all the public talk at the convention was about " joy , " " energy , " and " vibes . " Few seemed aware that half the country was sensing the same energy pointing in the opposite direction . " This is where real political power lies , " Hogg had said back at the party . " It 's not in politics . It 's actually in culture . Because when culture changes , politics change . " <p> The joy , energy , and unity are all now the stuff of sardonic jokes . The unity was obvious and real . But the energy was far more palpable on cable news than in the United Center , where the Chicago Bulls play their home games . Reporters complained constantly of being bored and spent long days slouched up in the cheap seats , trading tips on which senators might have availability that afternoon or where the good parties were . " It has n't exactly been what I hoped , " a local volunteer wearing a big " Teachers for Kamala " button told me as we rode the L to the arena together . " They want it to be a really sustainable event , so a big group of us have been on duty sorting compost from the trash . But I do n't think I 've missed much yet . " <p> And the joy manifested itself mostly as relief that President Joe Biden had dropped out and Democrats now had a fighting chance . The big-name speakers summoned a stern sense of mission . Barack Obama admonished the crowd that " this is still going to be a tight race . " Bernie Sanders came out to the old chants of " Bern-ie , Bern-ie . " The whole arena swelled , and the bitter animosities and fanatic energies of 2016 and 2020 seemed like very old history . Sanders gave a speech arguing that Biden , by leveraging the power of government toward a national industrial policy , anti-monopoly efforts , infrastructure , and climate , had been a more transformative president than many understood . Behind the scenes , Democrats argued several times to me that Biden actually represented our first " post-neoliberal " president , a figure who had marked a break with the trend toward financialization , globalization , and prioritization of markets and business interests above almost any other national interest that had shaped policymaking in both parties in the decades before 2016 . I later dug up a short piece I remembered from this time , titled " The Decorous Demise of the ' Establishment , ' " which traced the end of the " establishment consensus " sometime around when Jeb Bush was forced out of the race for president . " It is hard to imagine future generations of candidates returning to the same establishment style embodied by Mitt Romney and Jeb Bush , " Mark Leibovich wrote in The New York Times Magazine , " or going back to the same well of on-message orthodoxy . They wo n't spend tens of millions on ads , enriching the same cast of consultants and operatives . " <p> But by 2024 , Democrats had gone back to exactly this well of orthodoxy and even the same set of trusted campaign pros , like David Plouffe , to preach it . " Can you run just an incredibly intensive presidential campaign as if you were running a dead-heat battleground-state governor 's campaign ? " he asked before the election . " And I think we can . " The great looming risk of a second Trump presidency had made party leaders visibly averse to risks of any other kind . Toward the end of his speech , Sanders raised a finger and wagged it in that faux-hectoring way of his . " Let us be very clear , " he said . " This is not a radical agenda . " A couple of older women near me cheered , and a tentative swell of applause rose up in the arena before people seemed to realize this was n't supposed to be an applause line . " Let me tell you what a radical agenda is , " he said . " Trump 's Project 2025 . " <p> On the second night of the convention , I stopped at a small gathering at a lakeside franchise of Harry Caray 's steakhouse . I was looking to talk to Jamie Raskin . In the past few years , the Maryland congressman has taken roles on the House special committee investigating the January 6 riot and as the lead impeachment manager charged with prosecuting Trump for insurrection in his trial before the Senate . He has emerged , at least in the liberal media sphere , as a symbolic leader of the effort to defend America 's institutional stability and constitutional order . <p> Raskin was swarmed by a crowd of fans and hangers-on inside the bar , so I had a beer outside , chatting with a woman from Orange County , California , who owned a company that did something in the field of " biotherapeutics . " She caught the eye of Michael Cohen , the former Trump fixer turned inmate turned cable news bit player , who was hovering around , eagerly posing for selfies with everyone who approached him . " You 're so brave , " one woman wearing a great number of chunky beaded necklaces told him . <p> " I 'm not brave , " he said . " I just love my country . " <p> Cohen 's demeanor changed when I told him I was a writer . " Call Maggie Haberman , " he said . " Or call -- do you know Cuomo ? All of them , they all have my number . Everyone calls me . " <p> A young guy in a white Oxford shirt was very interested to talk about a gap in energy and political vision between Democrats and Republicans . He had recently left a state-level position to take a job on the Harris campaign staff . <p> " Democrats really just do n't want to see there 's a crisis , " he said . " A lot of us at least . " I asked if he wanted to sit down and talk for a while , but he hurriedly shook his head . " Take my card , " he said . " Let 's stay in touch . But I ca n't ... " he looked around . " You get it . I ca n't talk here . " I was finding , much to my surprise , that Democrats at this convention were harder to convince to speak freely than Republicans , who may hate the media and regard us as an intelligence-gathering arm working for an enemy power structure , but who are rarely boring . <p> I explained to him I was looking to speak with Raskin to talk over this problem Democrats faced in suddenly looking like the party defending the status quo and institutions of state . <p> " I think this really is the core conversation in American politics now , " the Harris staffer texted me later . " I completely agree about how headspinning it is to see the American right begin to own anti-Blob arguments that used to be the provenance of the left . " " The Blob " is a term coined by Ben Rhodes , a former senior adviser to Obama , to describe the intractable nest of private and governmental interests that make up our national security establishment -- not so long ago a thing Republicans rarely criticized . The staffer marveled at " how prevalent this conversation is becoming in circles where it previously seemed kind of unthinkable . " <p> There was no way to get Raskin alone at the party , where the crowd of admirers had not thinned at all in the time I 'd been outside . So we met around four the next afternoon and traveled in a small entourage , very slowly , past the concession stands and roped-off sections reserved for streaming influencers , stopping every 10 yards or so as another nervous pair of fans would approach to wish him well , thank him , and tentatively ask to shake his hand and snap a picture . We took a tightly guarded elevator up to a suite on the eighth floor , in the rarified VIP area housing skyboxes and executive suites . The actor Mandy Patinkin was in the hallway as we exited the elevator . He froze when he saw Raskin . He clasped his hand and held onto it as they talked . <p> " I just want to thank you so much for everything you did on the committee , " Patinkin said , " to put Trump away , hold him accountable for his insurrection . " <p> " I appreciate that , " Raskin said . <p> " I just want to know if there 's anything I can do to help , " Patinkin said . <p> I waited for a while as Raskin did a spot with a trim 35-year-old streamer in a tight-fitting suit named Brian Tyler Cohen . I had never heard of him before , but he has 3.5 million followers on YouTube and he 'd just gotten word that his new book , Shameless : Republicans ' Deliberate Dysfunction and the Battle to Preserve Democracy , had reached the top of the New York Times best-seller list . Raskin congratulated him and the two did a friendly interview about how Trump had " met his match " in Harris . <p> " You served on the January 6th committee , " Cohen said . " As Donald Trump becomes more and more unhinged and desperate , it elevates the possibility of violence or danger in the same way that we saw the insurrection on January 6th , 2021 . Does that worry you at all , the prospect of another insurrection ? " <p> " We have improved the physical defense of the Capitol against MAGA insurrectionists and so on , " Raskin said . " We 're ready for them . " <p> We sat in a pair of armchairs overlooking the floor as the New York congressman Tom Suozzi spoke far below us . Raskin wore a formal gray suit with an incongruous pair of chunky white-soled sneakers -- the same kind that left New York Times style writer Guy Trebay despondent over the state of our establishment when Mitch McConnell , Hakeem Jeffries , and Kevin McCarthy turned up wearing them in an Oval Office meeting in 2023 . Raskin , 62 , is small in build with a bit of a comb-over , but he conveys a gravity and command that must serve well in the setting of a televised congressional hearing . I explained I thought Trump had a good chance of winning , and that if he did , Raskin might soon be at the center of some very bitter battles . Steve Bannon had predicted that a second Trump administration would hit the Department of Justice " with a blowtorch . " <p> Polis was less confrontational than the resistance-style messaging coming from Pritzker . " We want to work with the new administration that we have , " he told me . " Just like there 's risks , there 's also opportunities . " <p> " Well , they assert a very strong version of the unitary executive theory , " he said . " It will be Donald Trump calling up the attorney general and ordering him to do whatever Trump wants , in terms of squashing investigation of someone who has given him the big campaign contribution , or going after a perceived political enemy . That 's a radical reversal of our understanding of the relationship between the president and the prosecutorial function . They 're putting that at the center . " <p> Raskin was elected in 2016 with the help of Sanders-aligned PACs , and in his early years in Congress he developed a reputation as a civil libertarian and skeptic of the so-called Blob . But the Trump years , and January 6 , seemed to make him more sympathetic toward our internal security apparatus . Last April , Raskin reversed a position he 'd taken on two procedural votes and ended up casting what amounted to the decisive vote to preserve the " backdoor search " loophole in the Foreign Service Intelligence Act , which allows federal agencies like the FBI and the National Security Agency to surveil the communications of American citizens in some circumstances without probable cause or a warrant -- a power that has been used since the Bush administration to spy on dozens of " racial justice protesters , " a state judge , a professor , a sitting congressman and a US senator , and even a batch of 19,000 unsuspecting donors to a congressional campaign , according to a report from the Brennan Center for Justice . <p> He understood where I was going . " Let me first start with the domestic analogies to what you 're saying , " he said . " In the Judiciary Committee , I spent many years sitting there while Jim Jordan and Matt Gaetz and all the right-wingers attacked the FBI . And they 're attacking the FBI for one very simple reason , which is they were investigating Donald Trump . " <p> Raskin might have talked about his father at this moment -- Marcus Raskin was a lefty policymaker and antiwar activist who was prosecuted ( but not convicted ) for aiding draft dodgers , and he was one of the first to receive documents that were eventually published as the Pentagon Papers . In 1976 , two of Marcus 's colleagues at the think tank he cofounded were murdered by a car bomb that agents of the US-backed government of Augusto Pinochet had planted on DC streets . <p> " Now , as someone who is perfectly aware of the COINTELPRO program and the FBI surveillance and sabotage against the Civil Rights Movement , I believe that the FBI should not be used as an instrument of political aggression , " Raskin said to me now . <p> " So , I was in the awkward position of having to defend the law enforcement objectivity of the FBI in terms of the Trump investigations . As far as we know , it has been operating in a completely objective law enforcement fashion , " he said . " So in the international context , we 'd say the CIA was clearly involved and complicit in Pinochet 's overthrow of the Allende government in Chile in 1973 . That does n't mean that the CIA is attacking Donald Trump . " <p> He resisted the idea that Democrats had become the party of the status quo . " To the extent that we are going to derive a grand political philosophy , a new public philosophy , " he said , " it will be one that emerges from the very specific programmatic answers we come up with to deal with real world crises . Including climate change , including economic inequality , and including the kind of social polarization which is being promoted by the right wing . " <p> " It 's consistent with the tradition of American pragmatism , " he said , arguing for a liberalism that could bring a revolution by increments . " And pragmatism gets a bad name because people think pragmatism means just adjusting to political reality . That 's not what it means . " He referred back to John Dewey and William James , who had proffered pragmatism as America 's natural political philosophy . " It 's the use of social experimentation to address widely felt social problems , " he said . " That 's where the Tennessee Valley Authority comes from . That 's where the National Park Service comes from . " <p> A staffer gave us notice that we had to vacate the suite . " I did want to ask you , " she said to Raskin , " there is an influencer next door doing special coverage , they said they have 5 million followers . They 'd love to talk to you .... " <p> " Can we take three more minutes ? " Raskin asked her . <p> In Democratic circles , talk about politics often stays within such a narrow band of issues and horse race chatter that officials at the DNC often seemed intrigued to talk big picture . Raskin and I talked about how Biden would be remembered and about the coming election , which he seemed confident Harris would win . He had written a letter to Biden two weeks before he dropped out , and it eventually ended up being published in the TheNew York Times . " I said that he would retire to the overwhelming love and appreciation of the country , " he told me . " And it would usher in an extraordinary cathartic outpouring of progressive energy in the country . I believe those things , and I think it has begun to come true . " He looked out toward the floor . " It 's like a dam breaking in terms of progressive , youthful energy for the future . " <p> That night I went to a party hosted by Drop Site News , started recently by the left-wing reporter Ryan Grim . I ended up vaping outside with a big donor to both the site and to the Democratic Party , a dapper and erudite man who 'd been a construction worker before he made a bunch of money in finance , who was now looking for ways to push the party toward a more populist and antiestablishmentarian worldview . We talked about a passage from Norman Mailer 's dispatch from the 1964 Republican National Convention , held at the Cow Palace in San Francisco . Mailer had written it as a picture of a moment when a wild new energy of conservatives in the West and the Sun Belt formed behind the candidacy of Barry Goldwater and caught the old " Establishment of the East , " as Mailer called it , with its heartland stretching " from Maine to Nassau , New York to South of France , " off guard . This establishment had waited too long to find a moderately liberal candidate who bore its pedigree . <p> It took half a century and the emergence of Trump to finally complete the rebellion Goldwater had begun . Mailer wrote of hearing a band of bagpipers marching constantly through the streets that week . " There was a vast , if all private appeal in listening to the pipes shrill out the herald of a new crusade " he said , " Something jagged , Viking ... hunters loose in the land again . And this had an appeal which burrowed deep , there was excitement at the thought of Goldwater getting the nomination . " <p> Against the pipers ' tribal skirl , the left 's answer had long been the promise of a utopian future built out of collective struggle . Their welling energies were summoned by songs like " Solidarity Forever , " " We Shall Overcome , " and " Which Side Are You On ? " -- the miners ' protest song written by a 12-year-old miner 's daughter named Florence Reece . A hint of this old energy came on the first day of the convention , from the United Automobile Workers president Shawn Fain . He played on the fact that JD Vance 's family came from the coalfields in Eastern Kentucky and accused Vance of abandoning his roots to align with billionaires like Elon Musk . " Which side are you on ? " he asked . <p> But big-name Democrats and the consultant class these days often seem so professional , so competent , so well-trained , that this kind of energy no longer fits into their calculations about how to win narrow elections . <p> After the election I saw clips of a moving speech given by Cecil Roberts Jr. , the West Virginia -- born president of the United Mine Workers of America . He spoke to the " blood that flows through our body " as a generational memory of a multiracial and often violent struggle , lingering as little more than historical trivia to the technocratic-minded liberals who 'd promised a " just transition " for laborers in " fading " industries like coal mining . He cast a pox on the house of everyone in power . " When you hear some rich person , " he said , " some CEO , some chairman of the board , talk about the patriotism of their company , or the patriotism of their board , understand something : Forgive me for what I 'm about to say , but that 's pure bullshit . That 's what that is . " <p> Roberts knew full well that , at least in private , most senior Democrats saw him and his members as people who " cling , " in the infamous phrase Obama had used , to a lost world . But he argued that our economy is still , as much as ever , built on manufacturing and resource extraction -- from lumber logged in Canada to industrial goods made in Chinese factories that are , in turn , powered by coal-fired energy . <p> " Democrats have needed a wake-up call now for some time , " he said . " And if there 's anything good that came out of this , I hope that they listen . At one time , everybody listened to me . " <p> " Union members voted for the vice president , " he said , " based on what we 've seen from the polls . But working people did n't do that . " He thought the age of Democrats being able to present themselves as the party of the working class were likely over . " I 'm a Democrat , " he said . " I 'm going to die one , because I 've been one forever . But here 's the problem . What about the next generation and the next generation ? " <p> Later , a collection of luminaries and media figures from the beleaguered Sanders wing of the party gathered at an Irish bar , where hosts of the podcast Chapo Trap House and writers for places like Jacobin and the London Review of Books were getting drunk and talking with resigned cynicism about the proceedings . Not so long ago this crowd had looked like it might have a chance to become what the young bookish and online right has become for Trump -- the intellectual vanguard of an insurgent new power in our politics . Policy aside , the Sanders movement had always represented something more than a push for a bigger welfare state . At times it had looked like it was building toward the kind of " regime change " dreamed of by conservative theorists like Curtis Yarvin and Patrick Deneen , one we may soon see . Conservatives today talk excitedly about a process of " elite replacement " that will see influential officials and power centers like New York finance and mainstream media lose place to newcomers from Silicon Valley or previously marginal conservative think tanks . Carried far enough , it 's a process that approximates a revolution . <p> During the election , many liberals had trouble understanding this kind of world historical dreaming , which animated people even at the edges of a campaign that bore the " mandate of heaven , " as the pseudonymous commentator Peachy Keenan said on Fox News . Keenan was only partly kidding . This kind of talk was always a bit tongue-in-cheek , hard for people who were n't already in on the joke to get . Trump-backing tech figures talked dryly of a " preference cascade " that would see millions of people suddenly turn away from liberal cultural mores , media , even potential sexual partners . Others reveled in what it would all mean . Men were going to be ripped again . Blond women with large breasts would mark our standard of beauty . Muscle cars would be cool . People talked about outfits they were planning to wear to parties on " deportation day , " when America would finally begin sending immigrants back en masse . People were going to be getting rich making fantastic new drones , in sleek new American factories , in wars America would dominate . Everything was possible . <p> " Trump 's success now , " Jonathan Keeperman , the publisher of the growing right-wing house Passage Press , wrote in the days after the election , " the electoral sweep ... the taste for revenge that animates him and his newfound allies , the titans of Silicon Valley " -- all of it had come from a mythic journey that had seen them taste defeat and then back to the heights , a landscape of possibility before them . Keeperman himself was set to assume platinum membership in the new " counter-elite " of crypto entrepreneurs , disaffected veterans , and conservative intellectuals that would rise in a new Trump age . " American dynamism has been tamped down for decades , " he wrote . " The doorway out is now opened , and we need only to walk through it . " <p> The problem for Democrats was n't just that they had no golden dawn to promise . It was that , cut off in a separate media sphere , they had no way of even understanding the appeal of this whole cacophonous movement . " Hatred for institutions can hardly be overstated , " the Times Trump reporter Shawn McCreesh wrote in the days after the election , describing a campaign that had often seemed like a madcap second line , picking up new partiers as the parade rolled on . " It seems like they 're having a lot of ... fun , " McCreesh said , cautiously , when I 'd first met him at a Trump event that summer . I introduced myself to David Sirota , who had been a senior Sanders adviser and who probably would have had a White House role if the Bernie carnival had managed to roll on and win . But I ended up talking mostly that evening with a young and soft-spoken operative who 'd run for Congress on a populist platform , trying to craft a Democratic message that would harness antiestablishment energy by appealing both to social justice -- minded activist Democrats and disaffected types who 'd turned Trump-curious in recent years . He now had a sensitive job and was , yet again , wary of being named . But the next day he agreed to talk anonymously . He kept trying to move us to a spot where we could n't be overheard , as celebrities and big-name officials filed by , and I made a joke about how I 'd never expected to have to think so much about " security culture , " as radical leftist activists describe countersurveillance precautions , at a " joyous " gathering of liberal Democrats . " Well , " he said . " That 's how it is . " <p> He told me that in polling for the general election , he 'd been doing better than any of the Democrats running against him , though there had n't been a " path " for him to actually win the primary . " There are many districts across the country where the Democrat 's best chance of winning is to run on a populist platform with a bipartisan credibility , " he said . " Which is anti-corporate , skeptical of militarism , pro -- civil liberties , pro-choice . " But he said Democratic leaders and the fact that upper-middle-class voters now form the party 's loyal base had made this approach very difficult to pursue . <p> He did n't seem bitter . He was just pointing out a matter-of-fact problem that had arisen as Democrats became a party ever more shaped by the views of well-off liberals and professional political consultants -- who knew a lot about how to win marginal elections but had trouble " listening , " as the United Mine Workers president Roberts had put it , to a sort of people that many of them just do n't interact much with anymore . <p> " They were very concerned about winning this purple seat , and very understandably , very rightly so , " the onetime congressional candidate said . " But I do n't think they were in a position to understand that someone with the issue profile I was running on was probably someone who would have been in a very strong position to win in the general -- because they have such a compressed vision of what the left-right spectrum is . " <p> As we were talking , a small commotion broke out on the floor behind us . We turned to see Connecticut senator Chris Murphy entering with a couple of staff members . Murphy was profiled at length by Eric Lutz in this magazine last winter . I had a more recent piece in The New York Times after Murphy contacted me about my own VF story on the quasi-revolutionary ferment of the " new right . " Murphy has rolled out the closest thing to a big-picture vision of a break with neoliberalism to tackle the " massive concentration of corporate power " that he believes has created a systemwide crisis of Americans ' confidence in said system . <p> I introduced Murphy to my other interlocutor and we spoke about the somewhat overwhelming response we 'd seen that week to the issues we 'd been raising . " People are desperate to find a way into that conversation , " Murphy said . " It 's not accessible enough yet . " He 'd just conducted polling he thought pointed a way toward a new organizing vision . " The number one crossover testing message is the breakup of corporate monopoly power . It 's number one . " <p> But Reid Hoffman , the cofounder of LinkedIn and one of the biggest donors in the Democratic Party , had just publicly suggested that Harris get rid of FTC chair Lina Khan -- who had won support for her anti-monopoly efforts from the Jacobin left and from right-wingers like Gaetz . This sort of overt scale thumbing from a deep-pocketed benefactor is perhaps more common , or at least more commonly heard of , among the right . I asked Murphy if the convention had given him any hope for his brand of politics . <p> " Not right now , " he said . He gestured toward the stage . " This is vibes . " <p> Murphy is sympathetic to fears about rising authoritarian overreach . But he saw a problem with the party focusing its message on the dangers of Trump . " I think we make a mistake when we defend democracy on existing terms , " he said . " I think we have to give more credit to people . They have good reasons why they are in a conversation about the efficacy of democracy , and they 're not interested in another 50 years of elites ' protecting democracy . ' " <p> A VIP in a wheelchair was coming through , and a security guard shooed us away . " I love you , Senator , " the guard said , " but you got ta make way ! " <p> On the floor , I met with Keisha Lance Bottoms , the former Atlanta mayor who at the time was a Harris-Walz adviser and a vice chair of the Democratic National Committee . For Bottoms , a younger Black woman who 'd been a big-city mayor at perhaps the most febrile moment for urban governance in recent memory , the big-picture questions were secondary to a basic impetus to get into office and deliver practical governance . She evinced a hint of frustration at the way that Democrats had come to talk like all Republicans were potential enemies . " What 's so unfortunate is that in this political climate , so many people are being forced to retreat into their corners and not publicly talk about the things that they work well on . " She danced around a frustration that burst forth after the election was over . <p> " When I was mayor of Atlanta , " she said , " one of my biggest allies and supporters was Speaker Ralston from Blue Ridge , Georgia . For me , there was a lesson of not making assumptions about where people stand on certain issues because of where they 're from or what their political affiliation may be . " <p> That the party had lost interest in " the persuasion business , " as Jon Favreau , the former Obama speechwriter and cohost of Pod Save America , described it , got wide airing in the weeks after Harris lost . He looked scathingly at Democrats who were now pointing to Biden 's age and inflation and suggesting that in a different year Harris might have won . The problem was bigger . " Most Americans were n't convinced that they 'd be better off under Democratic rule , " he said . " That 's it . " <p> " I think if anything , we 've learned over the last three and a half years is that moderation in just about all things is key , " Bottoms told me at the convention . " I think we do ourselves a disservice ... if we are n't willing to compromise and at least take into consideration other peoples ' perspective , what their background and what their history may be . " <p> I watched the election returns in Los Angeles at a small party hosted by Peter Thiel . By the time I got there it was obvious Trump had won , and everyone was staring at their phones , already angling for jobs and watching as the crypto markets started to rip . <p> On the last night , I waited for hours after the Secret Service shut down access to the floor before Harris spoke . There was nowhere for anyone who was n't a major VIP or a delegate from one of the states with prime floor-level real estate to sit and no way to get a bottle of water or take a bathroom break . Everyone was shoving and grumpy , and I had occasionally to fight to avoid getting shoved into the little ring where an absolutely indefatigable Chris Cuomo had been doing stand-ups for hours , apparently without any break . " This is preshow , " I heard him tell a complaining guest . " You do n't even have to go on . I 'll cut you off right now . " <p> When the moment came , I was between the California and Illinois delegations . To my left was a man in a red kaffiyeh named Alex Gallegos , who served on a school board in nearby Will County and who 'd come as an " uncommitted " delegate . Gallegos shouted out the suggestion , punctuating Harris 's nomination speech , that America provided the weapons to wage genocide in Gaza . If the broadcast audio picked it up , his shout might well have ended up being the most nationally visible expression of the one big rift in the " unity " Democrats tried so hard to convey that week . <p> The uncommitted contingent , a few dozen out of thousands of delegates , may be most analogous to what was left of an insurgent and antiestablishment role played by Sanders supporters in the intraparty warfare of 2016 and 2020 . <p> I asked Gallegos how he 'd ended up a delegate . " They wanted more diversity in the delegation , " he said . " Everybody was Black from Cook County . I 'm a brown guy from Will County , so I got in . I struggled . They asked me , I struggled . " But the diversity he brought was n't exactly the kind many of his fellows wanted to see . " It 's been terrible , " he told me . " We have to show unity and everything . I 'm one vote , I 'm one guy . It does n't matter . I do n't matter . " He gestured around at all the cameras and famous people near us . " I 'm not doing it for this . Do you think I 'm risking hatred and vitriol from everybody here for publicity ? " He looked exhausted . " It has not been a friendly place . " <p> I said it must at least have been exciting to attend a convention , with the eyes of the world watching , in his area . " That just means I get to drive home tonight , " he said . " But I thought I would be able to make more of an impact . " <p> Over to my right , the collection of mostly older delegates , seated , were surprisingly subdued . A Black man in a well-fitted tan suit acted as a bit of a foreman , and at one point , when the group had begun a spontaneous chant of " Ka-Ma-La , Ka-Ma-La , " he stood up and motioned for them to stop . The word seemed to have come down from somewhere on high . " U-S-A , U-S-A , " he led them . Nobody seemed too excited about the patriotic posturing or cautious policy proposals Harris mentioned in her speech . The people around me wanted to cheer for Kamala . <p> I hung around for a long time after the balloons dropped and people began to file out . I suppose I was looking for signs of the kind of overwhelming emotion and momentousness that I 'd seen over the years after watching Obama and Trump in big moments . It did n't seem like Harris 's fault so much as the fault of a hypercautious Democratic Party culture that had trouble just letting a candidate rip . The moment reminded me of Mitt Romney 's final event before the 2012 election -- there had been a kind of rote excitement that night , engineered by professionals with very good skin and multiple graduate degrees . But it did n't linger . <p> Before I headed out , a little demonstration took shape in front of the stage to an audience of no one but reporters . A bunch of young men who looked like they were on break from Duke and Boston College had assembled on some risers , chanting for a row of TV cameras and giving the impression of a hot crowd , fired up to go " do the work , " as Democrats so often phrase it . An older guy stood by organizing the show . " Do n't be weird ! " he called out as I watched , and they all took it up . A refrain of " Do n't be weird ! Do n't be weird ! " echoed as I walked off the floor . <p> I watched the election returns in Los Angeles , at a small party hosted by Peter Thiel , who had stayed out of this race . By the time I got there it was obvious Trump had won , and everyone spent most of the evening staring at their phones , already angling for jobs and watching as the crypto markets started to rip . Keeperman was there , and I smoked several cigarettes with him as we stood a bit away from the party , looking out over the lights on one of those nights when you can see clear across the LA basin . " I still ca n't even process how much has happened , " he said . Just two years earlier he 'd been an anonymous lecturer in the English department at UC Irvine . Now he was something like a celebrity , friends to those who were about to become some of the most powerful people on earth , smoking a rolled cigarette next to an elegantly situated pool and a table piled with delicate West Coast oysters . " Now it 's more than I could have ever imagined . " It 's all part of what comes when your side takes power . <p> One of the very few Democrats who appeared to be having a good time in the weeks after the election was Congresswoman Marie Gluesenkamp Perez , who 'd just been re-elected in a district in southwest Washington State . It includes suburbs of Portland , Oregon , but I knew the area from spending time with friends who worked small farms or as handymen on the rural north side of the Columbia River Gorge . Last May , Roll Call described Gluesenkamp Perez as the " most vulnerable " Democratic incumbent in the House , and she ran for the second time against a former Green Beret named Joe Kent , who had been one of the very early adopters of the antiestablishment and aggressively conservative sort of populism that is now the basic MAGA style . It was hard to see how MGP , as she 's sometimes known , would win this race . But she won by 16,123 votes out of 415,904 . She was neither a mainstream liberal nor a progressive in the mode of AOC . She had gone to the exclusive and liberal Reed College , but like many Reed kids and people who 've come up in the Pacific Northwest , she had a woodsy streak and a kind of natural skepticism of both big government and big business . I told her that I 'd followed her career in part because I knew some anarchist types in her district . " Who do you know ? " she asked , thinking she might well know them too . <p> Kent , her opponent , was very openly committed to the radical plans driving the Trump 2.0 project . I asked if this had put her in the trap Democrats had often described to me . " From the sense of my district , I did not run for the seat to defend the system of power , " she said . " I ran for the seat to defend the interest of my community and our values . And one of those values is absolutely democracy , but how are people supposed to judge the value or the efficacy of these ideas if not through their lived experience as normal Americans ? People that can afford gas and medicine and groceries and child care do n't typically vote for fascist candidates . " <p> She was contemptuous of the influential liberal voices that had spent much of the election season pointing to jobs figures and GDP growth to argue that Americans were failing to appreciate a healthy economy . Economic metrics no longer seem to be capturing the sense of creeping insecurity and lack of control over their own destiny that many Americans now feel . " I think there 's just been a mistake , " she said . " I 've seen people here in DC try to gaslight Americans and be like , ' You 're just dumb . The economy 's fine . ' And that does n't work . People are really feeling the impact of lack of a secure border , putting groceries on credit cards . " <p> Talking this starkly about immigration was one of the things Democrats were often afraid to do -- some , no doubt , out of a principled pro-immigration stance . But in the weeks after the election , online debate on the center left had turned into a long and baroque spiral of argument about " the groups , " a catchall term for the plethora of activist organizations and issue-based pressure organizations that are , at least to their detractors , the reason why Democrats are now so nervous about breaking even slightly with the consensus of the party . Moderate centrists argued that these groups functioned to force Democrats into proving their purity by taking positions that were broadly unpopular . The progressive left countered by saying that Harris-Walz had talked tough about the border and embraced people like Liz Cheney but had lost by running a campaign that amounted to " Trump lite " and would have had a better chance if it had embraced Bernie-style class populism . <p> Gluesenkamp Perez suggested that both sides were talking from a bubble . " I think everything has to be through the lens of local experience and culture , " she said . " I think this sort of capture of party priorities , where it 's like if you 're on the left side of the aisle , you have to have the same 10 priorities ; if you 're on the right side of the aisle , you have to have the same priorities , so that the consultant and industrial complex can sell the same fucking TV ad in Ohio as Washington State , does not make sense . " <p> She had won not so much by taking one side in the eternal battle between the party 's centrists and progressives but by being of a very specific place . She spoke about the federal debt in language not too dissimilar to how many small-government Republicans do . " Anybody that 's run a small business or a family budget is made queasy by the national deficit , " she said , bringing up another issue Democrats often shy from lately . " The payments on the interest are real , " she said -- interest payments on our federal debt cost American taxpayers more than our military budget -- " and they 're coming at the expense of my community . One of my counties just went down to a four-day school week . " She was aware that Kent would say Democrats were becoming the party of the national security state and the elite establishment writ large . <p> " I mean , I am not here to fundraise for Raytheon , " she said , a joking disclaimer . " I believe in domestic manufacturing . I believe in munitions manufacturing and union jobs and family wage jobs . " <p> She 'd had a mini-scandal last spring when she came out in opposition to a proposed regulation that could force manufacturers of table saws to install expensive sensors to help prevent finger injuries . It had led to brutal mockery from leftists -- who , at least online lately , can sometimes take even a hint of skepticism of state power as a betrayal of values . But she had opposed this for the same reason that she 'd become a champion of the " right to repair " movement , calling for manufacturers of complex goods to make " documentation , parts , and tools " available to consumers so those goods do n't have to be tossed out or taken for expensive maintenance by the manufacturer . It was a major issue for farmers buying machinery and would be a small step to give people agency in a way that directly impacts the lives of millions . Her mother 's family had all been loggers , and she 'd witnessed the rapid decline of the public lands logging industry in the Pacific Northwest -- a fight over conservation of the northern spotted owl that turned into a proxy for a culture war , and that in many ways saw everyone but a small group of large timber companies operating on vast private holdings lose out . She said that a spotted owl had just been found dead in Mt . Tabor Park , in the heart of Portland . " The autopsy showed it died from rodenticide . Do you think anybody at a chemical company lost their jobs over that ? " she asked . " Because all of my uncles lost their jobs . And so it is always the people with the least amount of power who foot the bill for bad ideas . " <p> As we finished talking , she circled back unbidden to the challenges of running against someone like Kent or Trump with the promise of smashing up the system . " Do you know the term ' obstacle fixation ' ? I learned this when I got my motorcycle endorsement , " she said . Democrats , she said , were " so fixated on one particular problem that they drive straight into it . You do not save democracy by running around , yelling about saving democracy . You do it by demonstrating that democracy and democratic values deliver better quality of life for normal people . Not mandating safety equipment on table saws but getting shop class in junior high . " She saw this as the kind of base-level thinking that could lead to a Democratic path toward national revitalization . " That way we 're not buying shit from Ikea that will collapse the first time we move it , " she said . " We can have a relationship with our mills and our timberlands . And then .... " She let the thought linger . <p> There was a lot of quiet activity and whispering going around in LA in the weeks after the election . In Hancock Park , not far from where Harris lived with her husband , Doug Emhoff , I met a friend of theirs who said something I 'd heard often from Democratic donors and loyalists in those weeks -- that everyone was " over it , " hardly even upset at seeing Trump win . It was a chance to see things blow up and see where the pieces landed . At a bar on Larchmont I got a tip that I should talk to man in his early 30s named David Adler , who 'd recently left a job working for the activist and former Greek finance minister Yanis Varoufakis and who now runs an organization called Progressive International , an attempt to build out a global left-wing alliance as an answer to the world-spanning right-wing coalition that had grown out of the efforts of people like Nigel Farage and Steve Bannon ( about whom I 've written for this magazine ) . I spoke to him while he was in town for Thanksgiving . He had a bleak take on the election but a very expansive vision for where center-left parties around the world need to go . " The Democratic Party of the United States has convinced itself that the only feasible strategy to maintain both its electoral base and its governability bona fides is to become the institutional defenders , " he said . " Defending the Big D , democracy , has been a major point through which they 've attempted to stave off this populist revolt . " <p> Adler was looking south . " The most successful center-left project of the 21st century of our hemisphere and of our continent is Morena in Mexico , " he said . In winning huge victories first for Andr ? s Manuel L ? pez Obrador and then for the new president , Claudia Sheinbaum , that political party had " managed to do what Democrats could not , " he said . " Put a woman to follow an aging man , providing a program to deal with social , economic , racial , and gender issues , and win a massive majority in the presidential elections . It guaranteed them the capacity to legislate with a deep social consensus . " <p> To do this Morena had started from a point of speaking to deep disillusionment with the whole system . " They did it by continuing to rage against the machine , " Adler said . " They did it by running , in other words , as anti-system incumbents . " <p> He thought the bedeviling division in the Democratic Party , between Bernie-style class populists and social justice -- minded liberals , obscured a bigger problem . " We 're not talking about including people in a system that everyone hates , " he said . " We 're talking about changing that system . " <p> " I 'm not speaking here as a leftist , " he said . Even famously moderate Democrats are now facing the fact that the 2024 election was , more than anything , a protest vote against a whole political order . " A Latino voter in Vegas told me that his two favorite political leaders were Governor Ron DeSantis and Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez , " Favreau had written in his Atlantic piece , " because they were both ' outsiders ' who were willing to ' take on the establishment . ' An older Milwaukee voter said that he had voted for Barack Obama and then Donald Trump because ' they both felt like change . ' A young Black man in Atlanta said that because of crime and inflation , he regretted his vote for Joe Biden , and that ' at least Trump is an honest liar . ' " <p> I waited for hours after the Secret Service shut down access to the floor before Harris spoke . There was nowhere for anyone who was n't a major VIP or a delegate from one of the states with prime floor-level real estate to sit and no way to get a bottle of water or take a bathroom break . Everyone was shoving and grumpy . <p> " Trust in the political system is at record lows , " Adler said . " Turnout is at record lows . People hate politics . And what they hate more than politics is they hate politicians . " <p> Like it or not , he said , " draining the swamp " was one of the most salient ideas of recent times . " That 's a popular message . It 's something that people can and should promote , " he said . This would mean more than adopting the kind of economic populism that people on the American left often argued would have given Harris a better shot . It would mean coming up with a program that disrupted the interests and bases of power that had , in the view of a very large portion of the American public , corrupted the system for its own ends . " The Democratic Party seems structurally incapable of putting forward a program that would cut against the core interests of what it perceives to be a constituency these days , " he said , " which are these corporate allies . They 're very proud to have Disney on their side . They 're very proud to have Wall Street on their side . They 're very proud to have the military-industrial complex on their side . " <p> " It 's not just about economic populism , " he said . " It 's about changing the whole way in which the game is fought . " <p> Behind the scenes , a lot of Democrats are already trying to draw up a vision like this . But it will take leaders . In early December , I went to the Beverly Hilton , where the Democratic Governors Association had gathered for a two-day meeting that served as " the kickoff to the 2028 presidential primary , live and in person , " one adviser told Politico . I did n't have credentials , but I snuck into the closing party , which had a classic-rock theme and a live cover band . I had a beer next to a consultant who 'd once been the chief of staff to Jim Carville and was talking to a clutch of lobbyists holding plastic souvenir DGA 2024 cups . All the governors and most of their staffs had cleared out . Almost everyone left was a lobbyist or a consultant . Almost everyone was white . Almost everyone looked rich . <p> I was hoping to meet Colorado governor Jared Polis . Colorado had the smallest shift toward Trump of any state in the presidential elections , according to findings by Axios . Polis had recently helped launch an initiative called Governors Safeguarding Democracy , which Illinois governor JB Pritzker said would be " pushing back against increasing threats of autocracy and fortifying the institutions of democracy that our country and our states depend on . " <p> But Polis had made a few clear signs about his willingness to work with the Trump coalition , most obviously by tweeting that he was " excited " by Trump 's pick of Robert F. Kennedy Jr . for secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services . " What I 'm most optimistic about is taking on big pharma and the corporate ag oligopoly to improve our health , " he wrote . He had said a " wrong thing " and drew a predictable backlash . But Polis later told Ezra Klein that he 'd been " sad to see RFK leave our coalition , " which includes crunchy earth mamas , big pharma skeptics , and believers in climate change , who had helped him win his statewide races comfortably . He had actually skipped the DGA , but he agreed to talk to me later , and he had clearly thought a bit about what it meant to govern as an " anti-system incumbent " -- if not in the left-wing way Adler described , then at least in a way that could win in the Denver suburbs . <p> When we spoke , he was less confrontational than the resistance-style messaging coming from Pritzker . " We want to work with the new administration that we have , " he said . " Just like there 's risks , there 's also opportunities . " <p> He brought up several times that his parents had been antiwar protesters and that he 'd grown up in the milieu of the counterculture . But he did n't see this as the domain of a single party . " We do n't want to be the man , we want to take on the man . So I think that 's very much the ethos of the Democratic Party that I 'm a part of , and we need to show that more . " <p> He intimated that the categories of left and right had started to outlive their usefulness . But he rejected the idea that appealing to a broad coalition meant tacking toward the kind of moderate centrism that the Harris campaign had tried to display and that many pundits were now telling Democrats to adopt more fully . " When you talk about freedom -- people on the left or right and the middle like more freedom . There 's some stodgy people in the middle who do n't . I get really irritated when people say it means you need to be milquetoast moderate . That 's not at all what we 're talking about . " <p> Breaking up the " oligopoly " of chemical companies and agricultural megacorporations that dominate our food chain was of a piece with this -- a project that would give Americans more freedom to write their own destiny by small-scale farming if they wanted , or to have more control over what goes into our bodies . But that would take looking both at corporate power and the way that our regulatory system now has the perverse effect of aiding these big companies at the expense of family farms . " I 'll go further and name names , " he said . " We 've got Monsanto and the way they keep small farmers beholden to their practices and it 's about processed foods . It 's about all those things . " <p> " It 's true that corporations have co-opted government in many areas , and it 's the wrong discussion to have government be bigger or smaller when they 're co-opted away from the public good towards the self-interest of certain corporations for their own benefit . So , that 's a more important discussion to have . I 'm all for government being smaller , but even more important , for a government working for people . " <p> A politician who drinks raw milk ( as he has ) , talks about the evils of big agriculture , and is in favor of deregulation in certain areas would probably be assumed to be MAGA . This was " bizarre " to him . " I do n't know if you saw yesterday , but I took a saw to a bunch of regs , which was awesome . " He had n't been thinking about Team Trump when he did it : " We 've been working on this for many months . " <p> As we finished up , he returned without any prompting to the question I 'd been needling since the DNC . He used a word I had tried to avoid . " For me , counterculture is culture , " he said . " I 'm a gamer . I 'm on Reddit . I had to learn what the mainstream media was because I 've never heard of it . " <p> The trouble is , there 's no such thing as a counterculture anymore . A pretty large portion of the richest and most powerful people in America today were shaped by the values of the 20th-century countercultural rebellion against establishment politics and bourgeois sexual and social mores . Republicans today often talk about conservatism as today 's true counterculture . But now they have their long-desired chance to become the establishment . It 's a chance that Democrats took in 1829 , when Andrew Jackson opened the White House to a mob of revelers and instituted the spoils system of federal patronage . Republicans under Lincoln revolutionized government again in the 1860s , making space for previously unthinkable growth in the size of our government and the reach of federal power . Democrats took a turn again in 1932 , when FDR began the reimagining of the role of government that became the New Deal . If we 're fortunate , the cycle may yet go on . " It 's very important to always have a cynical and skeptical view of the establishment and those in power , " Polis said as we wrapped up . " And that includes when you 're in power . That 's something important never to forget . " <h> James Pogue <h> Contributor <p> James Pogue is a features writer and author of Chosen Country : A Rebellion in the West and a forthcoming book on rural California . He regularly contributes longform reportage and essays to Harper 's Magazine , where he is a contributing editor , in addition to *Vanity Fair , The New York ... Read more <p> Anxiety is running high in the press corps given the ( soon-to-be ) 47th president 's history of demonizing , threatening , suing -- and courting ! -- journalists . " I do n't think he intends to pack reporters off to Guant ? namo , " says one cable news vet , " but who the hell knows . " <p> He plays a character on the hit reality series , but the real-life Cumming can also get saucy : " You say , ' I could never be a traitor . ' I think , ' Yes , you could , bitch , if I tapped you on the shoulder . ' " <p> At least dozens , if not hundreds , of artists have lost their homes , studios , and artwork in the Los Angeles fires . Galleries have been destroyed , and those still standing are closed for the moment . But members of the community are fighting the devastation with GoFundMe pages , community organizing , and free meals from favorite restaurants .
