<p> " My job is to say Britain 's back , " David Lammy observes . " Britain is back on the world stage . " Photograph by Anselm Ebulue for The New Yorker <p> Shortly before 3 P.M. on a Tuesday in late September , David Lammy , the British Foreign Secretary , sat down at the blond horseshoe-shaped table of the U.N . Security Council chamber , in midtown Manhattan . It was High Level Week for world leaders at the General Assembly . Outside , on First Avenue , the traffic was unbearable . Lammy , who is one of Britain 's most prominent Black politicians , entered office this past July , when the Labour Party , under Keir Starmer , swept to power after fourteen years of Conservative government . His schedule in New York was heavy and mixed : hurried conversations with Najib Mikati , the Prime Minister of Lebanon , about the fighting between Hezbollah and Israel ; a U.N . summit to address the global health risks posed by antimicrobial resistance ; a " fireside chat " with the actor Benedict Cumberbatch and his wife , Sophie Hunter , an artist and a director , about salt marshes and the ineffable qualities of British soft power . <p> The Security Council meeting was about the war in Ukraine . A large mural in the chamber , by the Norwegian artist Per Krohg , loomed over Lammy 's right shoulder . At the base , a dragon was removing a sword from its own body . " The world we see in the foreground is collapsing , " Krohg explained seventy-five years ago . When the meeting began , the Russian representative , Vassily Nebenzia , spoke first , saying that he had no intention of listening to " hackneyed , cookie-cutter statements " from Ukraine 's allies , and then pointedly stopped paying attention , scrolling on his phone . <p> Lammy likes to have an audience . Although only recently appointed to high office , he has been a Member of Parliament for Tottenham , the North London neighborhood where he grew up , for almost a quarter of a century . During the long years of Labour opposition , Lammy , who is fifty-two , hosted a call-in radio show and cultivated a significant presence online . He can sense a viral moment . When his turn came to address the meeting , he directed his words at the Kremlin and Vladimir Putin . " I speak not only as a Briton , as a Londoner , and as a Foreign Secretary , " Lammy said . " But I say to the Russian representative , on his phone as I speak " -- Lammy hit the words as if he were telling off a teen-ager -- " that I stand here also as a Black man whose ancestors were taken in chains from Africa , at the barrel of a gun , to be enslaved , whose ancestors rose up and fought in a great rebellion of the enslaved . " He continued , his voice rising , " Imperialism . I know it when I see it . And I will call it out for what it is . " <p> The speech took off online . Lammy pinned a clip to his X page . After the meeting , Radoslaw Sikorski , Poland 's Minister of Foreign Affairs , came up and congratulated him . " That was brilliant , " Sikorski told me later . " The U.N . is mostly the so-called Global South . That 's your audience . " <p> I met Lammy two days later at the Ritz Diner , twenty blocks north of the U.N. , in between meetings . His parents migrated to England from Guyana , a former British colony on the north coast of South America . Lammy regularly invokes the U.K. 's imperial past and his own biography , in an attempt to frame current international problems and to find points of connection . " Having a Foreign Secretary that can use the past -- but use it to caution the future -- this resonates well in that global chamber , " he told me . <p> It is Lammy 's task -- at an inauspicious time -- to rediscover Britain 's place in the world after years of antic inwardness , a period defined by Brexit , economic rot , and political entropy that stopped the country from having much of a foreign policy at all . ( Lammy 's six Conservative predecessors since 2016 lasted an average of fifteen months in the job ; four of them tried to become Prime Minister while in office . ) " The world has been shocked , bemused , discombobulated , by our oscillations , our internal seesaw , our isolationism . These are not words that you would generally associate with the U.K. , " Lammy said that morning . " We 're sort of like a tortoise that suddenly turned around and pulled its head in . " Lammy is not like that . His head is out . Thickset and ebullient now , he sang in choirs as a boy and knows how to modulate voice and gesture . If he is anywhere near a table , he uses its surface for grammatical emphasis , tapping and thumping between words . " My job is to say Britain 's back , " he said . " Britain is back on the world stage . " <p> An aide interrupted , putting a plate heaped with pancakes and bacon in front of him , for a photo intended for his department 's Flickr feed . " O.K. Fine , " Lammy said , obediently picking up a knife and fork , to mime cutting into his breakfast . " God , if I ate that , I would be even fatter than I am , " he added , out of the side of his mouth . He laughed and left the food untouched . <p> " He makes an impression , right ? " Ben Rhodes , a former speechwriter for Barack Obama and a deputy national-security adviser in Obama 's Administration , who is a friend of Lammy 's , told me . " I remember meeting him and thinking , Well , this guy 's interesting and full of vigor . " <p> Lammy earned a master 's degree from Harvard Law School , in the mid nineteen-nineties . He got to know Obama through the school 's Black alumni network and met Rhodes at Obama 's campaign headquarters in Chicago , in 2007 , when he was a junior minister in Tony Blair 's new Labour government . During Obama 's first Presidential campaign , Lammy went canvassing in Wisconsin while his wife , Nicola Green , who is an artist and a social historian , followed the candidate , making a series of prints that now hang in the Library of Congress . When we met in New York , Lammy took out his phone , on which he had a photograph of a recent handwritten note from Obama , encouraging him to " keep up the good fight " as Foreign Secretary . The two men try to have dinner when Obama passes through London . " He grew up without a father . I grew up without a father , " Lammy explained . " Similar backgrounds . " <p> Rhodes and Lammy became close after 2016 , when both men were dealing with political estrangement . Rhodes was working on a memoir of Obama 's Presidency and attempting to process Donald Trump 's first victory , while Lammy was confronting the nationalist instincts behind the Brexit vote and his own party 's leftward turn , under Jeremy Corbyn . " We were both wrestling with the same issues at that time , " Rhodes said . " We were both trying to figure out what it meant to be in this kind of deep opposition . " <p> During Trump 's first term , Lammy -- along with his friend Sadiq Khan , the mayor of London -- became one of Britain 's most prominent , and quotable , antagonists of the President . In July , 2018 , Lammy joined a march protesting a Trump visit to the U.K. " The president 's threats to NATO and the U.N . are no more logical than arson . His trade wars with the E.U. and China could trigger the next great economic crisis of our times , " Lammy wrote in Time magazine . " Trump is not only a woman-hating , neo-Nazi-sympathizing sociopath . He is also a profound threat to the international order that has been the foundation of Western progress for so long . " <p> Cartoon by Charlie Hankin <p> Link copied <p> Lammy was at his barber 's , in Tottenham , a little more than three years ago , when he saw that he had missed several calls from Starmer , Corbyn 's successor as Labour leader . Starmer wanted Lammy to be the shadow Foreign Secretary in his opposition Cabinet . Not long afterward , Lammy was a guest on Rhodes 's podcast . Trump came up in conversation , and Rhodes noticed a striking change in his friend 's tone . " He gave this answer that was very reserved , " Rhodes recalled . " And I was , like , Holy shit . This guy is already thinking about being Foreign Secretary . He kind of immediately switched off that valve . " Rhodes likened Lammy to Obama in his tendency to prize the workable option ahead of his inner convictions . " Precisely because he believes that the danger is real , " Rhodes said . <p> " The Americas are in my lifeblood . My family being from Guyana makes the New World very proximate to me , " Lammy told me at the diner . He has family in New York , New Jersey , Florida , and Georgia . From 2021 , he and his team worked assiduously to meet officials from the Biden White House and to court a possible second Trump Administration . Last February , Lammy reached out to Senator J. D. Vance at the Munich Security Conference . The men appeared at an event onstage together , agreeing conspicuously several times . Since then , Lammy has referred to Vance as his friend so often that some of his colleagues roll their eyes . ( One Labour peer referred to Lammy 's working-class childhood as his J. D. Vance years . ) Lammy is unabashed . He said to me , of Vance , " He talks very passionately about addiction , joblessness , and a sort of cultural dislocation engulfing the community that he grew up in . And , of course , I saw similar things in the community that I grew up in . " <p> In New York , Lammy was reluctant to answer questions about the U.S. election , which was still six weeks away . Kamala Harris was three points ahead in the polls . His head and his heart were in contrasting places . " That 's a bit hard for me , " he said . When I insisted that he could n't look upon a Trump Presidency with equanimity , he replied , " As the chief diplomat , in the end , give me democracy any day , however challenging it is , I suppose is what I am saying . " <p> What Lammy did not say is that he had dinner plans with Trump that night . He and Starmer , along with Karen Pierce , the British Ambassador , and Sue Gray , Starmer 's then chief of staff , rode the golden elevator up to the fifty-sixth floor of Trump Tower . According to two officials who were briefed on the evening , it was Lammy , rather than Starmer , who led the British charm offensive , laughing at Trump 's jokes , taking a second helping of the entr ? e , and praising the surroundings . " The Foreign Secretary is kind of a natural at this , " one of the officials said . " He knows America . He knows what kind of person this is . " At one point , Trump lowered the lights to show off the skyline . " It 's a beautiful view of Manhattan , " Lammy told me . " It was a very , very warm evening in many , many ways . " <p> There is no diplomatic playbook for dealing with the Trump Administration -- especially not for America 's closest ally , still trying to find its way in the world five years after leaving the European Union . Everyone agrees that Britain means something in international affairs , but not exactly what or why . Old empires are like old stars in the sky . You ca n't tell whether the light actually burned out years ago . <p> Lammy is not an easy politician to read . " There are so many different Davids that are sort of in one , " a former adviser of his told me . But his instincts are relational , ahead of anything else . " You do n't get from where I started to where I am without finding the common ground , " Lammy told me one afternoon in his office in London , bashing the red leather blotter on his desk . " That is the No. 1 thing I am often trying to do . " This is a darkening time for Lammy 's brand of politics -- centrist , flexible , globalist -- which is in retreat almost everywhere . But he seemed energized , rather than overwhelmed , by the task . " The history books are far from being written , " he said . " You know , we 're in the midst of it all . Let us reckon with that second Trump term . " <p> Lammy venerates Ernest Bevin , another working-class Labour politician , who became Britain 's Foreign Secretary in the last weeks of the Second World War . Bevin was an orphan from Somerset , who worked as a farmhand and as a truck driver until he was twenty-nine , when he emerged as a formidable trade unionist and a wartime organizer . Bevin 's grammar and politics were visceral rather than learned . Relying on what he called " the ' edgerows of experience , " Bevin helped to found NATO and wrangled the terms of the Marshall Plan for the reconstruction of Europe . A portrait of King George III hung in his office . " Let 's drink to him , " Dean Acheson , the U.S. Secretary of State , recalled Bevin saying , as he poured a glass of sherry . " If ' e ' ad n't been so stoopid , you would n't ' ave been strong enough to come to our rescue in the war . " <p> " Ernie Bevin is my hero , because I 'm looking at the world as it is , not as I would like it to be , " Lammy said . The last time Labour won power from the Conservatives , in 1997 , the U.K. 's G.D.P . was greater than China 's and India 's combined . ( Now , together , their economies are seven times larger . ) Lammy campaigned hard against Brexit , which was a psychological and institutional disaster for Britain 's foreign-policy class . For forty-three years , until the referendum in 2016 , officials in London had refracted every international question through the country 's simultaneous membership in the E.U. and its privileged access to U.S. power . " It was in the DNA of every Foreign Office official on any issue , " John Casson , a former Ambassador to Egypt and adviser to David Cameron , the Prime Minister who called for the Brexit vote , told me . " How can we triangulate the two in a sensible way ? " <p> Theresa May , Cameron 's successor , set up a pair of government departments to manage Britain 's departure from the E.U. and to strike new trade deals around the world . The Foreign Office found itself largely excluded from the U.K. 's most important international negotiations since the Bevin years . " It was a trauma , " Casson said . Career officials discovered that their default mode of thinking about Britain 's place in the world was suspect , too . " They were seen as completely unsound , " Casson continued , " by people who wanted to change the world and change how we operate . " <p> Britain 's Foreign Secretaries after 2016 included some of the Conservative Party 's most ardent Brexiteers , Boris Johnson and Liz Truss among them . Statecraft was replaced by stunts and nostalgia : Johnson reciting " Mandalay , " by Rudyard Kipling , on a visit to a Buddhist temple in Myanmar ( " For the wind is in the palm-trees , and the temple-bells they say / Come you back , you British soldier ; come you back to Mandalay ! " ) ; Truss riding on a tank . The Foreign and Commonwealth Office , which handled diplomacy , was hurriedly merged with the country 's Department for International Development , which dispensed aid . About a third of the nation 's fifteen-billion-pound overseas-aid budget was promptly repurposed to pay the housing costs of asylum seekers in the U.K. <p> In 2021 , the combined department launched a grandiose and under-resourced " Indo-Pacific Tilt " -- to project British power in Asia -- and a sixty-million-pound refresh of the country 's " GREAT " marketing campaign , which put up posters of Harry Potter , Welsh cheese , and English soccer players in a hundred and forty-five countries around the world . Foreign Office staffers described an atmosphere of puzzlement abroad and low morale at home . " Lammy inherited a battlefield which is full of smoking hulks , " one former ambassador told me . " Just a disaster area . " <p> The headquarters of the combined Foreign , Commonwealth &amp; Development Office is a Victorian confection , built at the height of the British Empire , next to Downing Street . In 1877 , the building was described as " a kind of national palace , or drawing room for the nation , " and it drips with alabaster , marble , and allegorical paintings showing Britannia living out her providential role in the world . In the nineteen-sixties , modernizers in both of Britain 's main political parties argued that the building should be pulled down and replaced by a more modest structure . <p> Lammy likes it as it is . He has a weakness for old and worn English places . " Actually , at this moment , the building is wonderful for me , because history is everywhere , " he told me one November afternoon in London . " I 'm at ease with history and at ease with navigating , finding my own place within that history . " Outside , the light was failing over St. James 's Park . " I can certainly see that some people might come in here and be rather daunted by the building . For me , in a way , it 's comfort . " <p> When Lammy was eleven years old , he won a choral scholarship to the King 's ( the Cathedral ) School , a state-funded boarding school in Peterborough , in Cambridgeshire . The only Black pupil , he carved his name in a pew of the cathedral , which was consecrated in 1238 , and appeared , in a white ruff and a red cassock , on the Christmas edition of " Songs of Praise , " the BBC 's flagship religious program . " I quickly learned that my insecurities , which related to my accent and my skin colour , were supposed to be hidden , " Lammy wrote in " Tribes : A Search for Belonging in a Divided Society , " a part memoir , part political study , which he published in 2020 . <p> Before he became a chorister , Lammy had grown up in a red brick terraced house in Tottenham , one of five children , reared by his mother , Rose , who 'd moved to London from Hopetown , a village in northeastern Guyana . Hopetown was founded in 1841 by forty-nine freed African slaves , who had bought the land -- former cotton plantations -- for two thousand Guyanese dollars , from James Blair , a British M.P . <p> Rose worked at the Camden Town Tube station and , later , as a local government official , in North London . Lammy 's father , David , was also from Hopetown . He arrived in London in 1956 , part of the so-called Windrush generation of West Indian immigrants -- British colonial subjects who moved to the mother country after the Second World War . " They came with such a sort of brightness in their eye , " Lammy told me . Dapper and charming , David , Sr. , worked as a taxidermist . But he drank and his business failed . The last time Lammy saw his father was on a train platform . Lammy was twelve and heading back to boarding school . David , Sr. , died in poverty in Texas in 2003 . <p> Lammy 's education inculcated in him the rituals and expectations of the British establishment . His accent changed . He avoided questions about his family . " When the school holidays came , I did not want to leave , " he wrote . In October , 1985 , Lammy watched the TV coverage of a riot that broke out on the Broadwater Farm Estate , a social-housing project two streets away from his house , when a Black woman died of heart failure after her apartment was searched by the police . A white police officer was killed in the violence . Finding his teen-age identity was complicated , Lammy wrote , " when ' Who I was ' was the very kind of otherness I was trying to escape from . " <p> As a young lawyer , Lammy modelled himself on Jonathan Rollins , the dashing attorney played by Blair Underwood in " L.A. Law . " Returning home after Harvard , he ran as a Labour candidate in the inaugural elections of the London Assembly , a new public-scrutiny body for the city . Simon Woolley , a co-founder of Operation Black Vote , which aimed to increase the political representation of Black communities in the U.K. , remembered Lammy from this time . " He 's slick . He 's ambitious , " Woolley said . " He wants to please , but he 's no one 's fool . " <p> Lammy had barely served in the assembly before he was selected to stand as the M.P . for Tottenham . In April , 2000 , the incumbent , Bernie Grant , died , at the age of fifty-six . Grant , who was born in Guyana , was a charismatic socialist with a national following . The choice to succeed him came down to Lammy or Grant 's white widow , Sharon . Lammy had both the credentials -- he was a working-class kid from the borough -- and the polish of Blair 's modernized Labour Party . When he was elected , at the age of twenty-seven , Lammy became the youngest member of the House of Commons . People wondered if he would be Britain 's first Black Prime Minister . " In all honesty , he gets elected with great fanfare , " Woolley told me . " And I think there was a bit of time when we questioned whether we got this right . " <p> That is because , for years , Lammy behaved like just another upwardly mobile Blairite politician . " He was . . . I do n't know what , " the Labour peer I spoke to , who worked with Lammy during the two-thousands , said . " Capable . Unexciting . Normal . " He was one of five Black M.P.s in Westminster . He made the occasional gaffe . Appearing on the BBC quiz show " Mastermind , " in 2009 , Lammy was asked which English king came after Henry VIII . " Henry VII ? " he replied . <p> When Labour lost power in 2010 , Lammy turned down a junior post in the Shadow Cabinet . He finished fourth in an attempt to become the Labour candidate for London 's mayor . Then Jeremy Corbyn took over the Party . Lammy shed his inhibitions -- and found a national platform , in the media -- while his future in the Party clouded over . " I think for a long time , he did n't have David figured out , " the adviser said . " What shifted was a sense of ' Do you know what ? I 'm just as good as these people . I 'm just going to be me . ' " In 2016 , Lammy accepted an invitation from Cameron to lead a government review of racial bias in the British criminal-justice system . The following year , a close friend of his and his wife 's , a Gambian British artist named Khadija Saye , was killed , one of seventy-two victims of the Grenfell Tower fire in a social-housing block in West London . <p> That fall , the Guardian began reporting stories of men and women -- many of them Lammy 's age , or older -- who were being threatened with deportation , decades after arriving from former colonies in the Caribbean . People who migrated to Britain before 1973 and were legally resident in the country lost their jobs and housing , were denied health care and their pensions , and were stopped at the border after going on vacation and refused entry into the U.K. , because of gaps in their paperwork . <p> The Windrush scandal , as it became known , was the product of the Conservatives ' " hostile environment " policy toward undocumented migrants . As of last year , more than seven thousand people have claimed compensation from the government . " I 've lost count of the times I 've been told to go home , or had my Britishness questioned , " Lammy wrote in " Tribes . " " The Windrush Scandal confirmed our worst fears . " <p> " Maybe he 's not a conspiracist , but he does spend a lot of time doing his own research and connecting the dots . " <p> Cartoon by Barbara Smaller <p> Link copied <p> On April 16 , 2018 , Lammy prepared to speak about the injustice from the backbenches of the House of Commons . He had planned to talk about his parents , but feared that he would cry . He texted a researcher to ask when the first British ships arrived in the Caribbean -- 1623 -- and brought down his fury in a short , rhythmic , and upsetting speech . " This is a day of national shame , " Lammy thundered . " Let us call it as it is : if you lay down with dogs , you get fleas , and that is what has happened with the far-right rhetoric in this country . " <p> Lammy does not remember speaking the words . " In a way , it was almost like my ancestors came through me , " he said . " I was standing on their shoulders . I was powered up . " People who had known Lammy for years had a feeling of arrival . " There 's a moment in people 's political life where you can bring the whole backstory to that one moment , " Woolley told me . Rhodes draws a line between Lammy 's advocacy for the Windrush generation and what now drives him as a post-imperial Foreign Secretary . " David 's whole life has been , in part , an effort to reconcile the fact that he 's British , even though the British fucked his people over , " Rhodes told me . " And that , in miniature , is kind of what the U.K. has to do around the world . " <p> Lammy describes his approach to foreign policy as " progressive realism . " In an essay for Foreign Affairs last year , he defined this as " the pursuit of ideals without delusions about what is achievable . " Skeptics point out that progressive realism is more of a spectrum than a strategy , and that it can be used to explain almost any decision . But British officials told me that it was a helpful starting point . " You 're going to try and make the world better , but you 're going to deal with it and use tactics that rely on the world as you find it , " one explained . It 's also helpfully unthreatening to ideological opponents . " I told him as a Republican I can go halfway , " Senator James Risch , the ranking member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , joked at an event discussing Lammy 's agenda last year . " We 're really big on realism . This progressive stuff , eh . . . " <p> A large part of progressive realism involves redefining worthy goals in more practical , and transactional , terms . Since taking office , Lammy has encouraged officials not to use words such as " help " or " support " or " assistance " in their dealings with the Global South , seeking a more equal -- and commercial -- relationship on both sides . The change in approach comes after a precipitous falloff in the U.K. 's overseas-aid spending in recent years and is nothing like the ambitious poverty-reduction agenda of the previous Labour government . " It 's not the development of Gordon Brown and Tony Blair , " Lammy told me . " This is a world in which China 's Belt and Road has happened . This is a world in which we see Russia selling mercenaries to African countries . " He went on , " It 's about the dealmaking . It 's not just about sort of old-style paternalism . That 's just not going to cut it . " <p> The most pressing task for Lammy has been to undo the worst diplomatic mishaps of the Tories . In September , 2020 , Boris Johnson 's government set out , in its own words , to " break international law in a very specific and limited way " in a dispute with the E.U. Shortly before taking office , Liz Truss declined to say whether President Emmanuel Macron of France was " a friend or foe . " During his premiership , Rishi Sunak threatened to remove Britain from the European Convention on Human Rights in order to implement his policy of deporting asylum seekers to Rwanda -- mainly refugees who had crossed the English Channel in inflatable boats . " The trust in British politics was , I would say , close to zero , " a European diplomat told me , of the most pugnacious Brexit years . <p> Starmer cancelled the Rwanda plan on his first day in office , and , since then , he and Lammy have sought to restore the U.K. as a sober , law-abiding nation . In October , the new Labour government announced its intention to give up sovereignty over the Chagos Archipelago : some sixty islands , including Diego Garcia -- home to an important U.S. military base -- in the middle of the Indian Ocean . The deal would hand the islands to Mauritius , half a century after some two thousand Chagossians -- mostly descendants of enslaved people -- were removed by the British to make way for the military installation . It followed years of campaigning by exiled Chagossians , a ruling against the U.K. at the International Court of Justice , and increasing international isolation , which was partly stoked by Brexit . In May , 2019 , just five countries supported Britain in a U.N . General Assembly vote on the future of the islands . <p> Describing the draft treaty with Mauritius in Parliament , Lammy said that the agreement " addresses the wrongs of the past , " while securing Diego Garcia for the U.S. military . The proposal included a ninety-nine-year lease on Diego Garcia , plus an option to renew . " The State Department , the agencies , the Pentagon , all think this is an incredible deal , " he assured me in December . <p> Lammy has also sought to use international law to craft British policy toward Israel and the war in Gaza . Last September , he advised his colleagues to suspend thirty export licenses ( out of a total of three hundred and fifty ) for sales of weapons that were being used by the Israel Defense Forces , because of a " clear risk " that they were violating international humanitarian law . Two months later , when the International Criminal Court issued arrest warrants for Israel 's Prime Minister , Benjamin Netanyahu , and Defense Minister , Yoav Gallant , Britain 's Attorney General , Richard Hermer -- a former colleague and friend of Starmer 's -- said that the U.K. would comply if either man tried to enter the country . For his part , Lammy has told M.P.s that the law gives him no choice . " That does not allow me any discretion , " he said . <p> The Conservatives ' ultimate foreign-policy misstep was Brexit . On Lammy 's first weekend in the job , he flew to Berlin and Stockholm , to meet his counterparts , and then to Chobielin , in northern Poland , to visit the country manor , or dw ? r , of the Polish Foreign Minister , Radoslaw Sikorski . <p> This was the beginning of what Starmer 's government calls its " reset " of relations with the E.U. -- not a reversal of Brexit , but a rapprochement . " There is a new atmospherics , " Sikorski told me . In mid-July , the U.K. hosted forty-five European leaders , including Volodymyr Zelensky , of Ukraine , at Blenheim Palace , the birthplace of Winston Churchill , where eight hundred scones were served to the guests for tea . Starmer met Olaf Scholz , the German Chancellor , five times within three months of taking office . " The intensity of the reach-out is really remarkable , " the European diplomat said . " Now we have to work on the substance . " <p> The reset is the object of both hope and dismay . The " EU -- UK Trade and Cooperation Agreement " -- a.k.a . Boris Johnson 's Brexit deal -- which was signed in 2020 , cast British businesses far outside the E.U. 's single market , causing inevitable barriers to trade . With the threat of U.S. tariffs in the air , and a listless economy , it seems logical for a centrist British government , led by politicians who opposed Brexit , to seek closer ties once again . " The only thing they have to do , and there wo n't be a list of Chagosses that make up for it , is improve relations with Europe , " Bronwen Maddox , the director of Chatham House , the London-based foreign-affairs think tank , said . " If they want growth , it 's sitting right there across the Channel . Europe is not growing very fast , but the source of Britain growing faster is there . " <p> And yet the reset has been oddly tentative . The only results , so far , have been the sketch of an E.U.-U.K. security pact and a bilateral deal with Germany , focussed mainly on defense and technology . Fairly modest E.U. proposals -- such as co ? rdinating veterinary standards or a youth-mobility scheme , to allow British and European students to study abroad more easily -- seem too ambitious for Starmer and his Cabinet to contemplate . " There 's definitely a lot of disappointment in how the Labour government has approached the E.U. and Brussels , " Luigi Scazzieri , of the Centre for European Reform , told me . <p> It 's not all Britain 's fault . France and Germany are in political turmoil , and the E.U. 's prodigious decision-making architecture moves slowly . But there is an unmistakable sense that , aside from the scones and the atmospherics , neither Starmer nor Lammy knows exactly what he is asking for . " Essentially , there 's little to discuss with the E.U. until the U.K. internally sorts out what it wants as a package , and that 's not happened yet , " Scazzieri said . During last year 's election campaign , Labour leaders were concerned about losing support among pro-Brexit voters and promised not to re ? nter the E.U. 's single market or customs union , or to follow its freedom-of-movement migration rules -- commitments that now look ultra-cautious in the light of the Party 's huge parliamentary majority . " They were a political necessity , " the Labour peer told me , of the promises . " But involving a high economic cost . " <p> In December , the European Council on Foreign Relations found that sixty-eight per cent of British voters -- including more than half of those who had voted to leave the E.U. -- would now accept both a return to the single market and freedom of movement . " My personal feeling is that they should be a bit less afraid , " the European diplomat said . <p> Hovering over all these decisions -- like a storm system forming off the coast -- is the second Trump Administration . Lammy and his team are confident that the British government is much more prepared than it was in 2016 . " We are the best-connected embassy in Washington . No one else comes close , " one aide told me . British officials have decided to model their approach , at least in part , on that of Shinzo Abe , the former Prime Minister of Japan , who was killed at a political rally in 2022 . Abe was an early visitor to Trump Tower , in November , 2016 , and a keen golfing partner of the President . " Pragmatic , considered , clear in his own position -- but also understanding where Donald Trump was coming from " is how Lammy characterized Abe 's diplomacy . Last year , Lammy 's staff sought advice from Kenneth Weinstein , a Japan specialist at the Hudson Institute , a conservative think tank based in Washington , D.C. , and a close friend of Abe 's . " My sense with President Trump is you can always get back into his good graces , if you work hard enough and offer the respect he deserves , " Weinstein said . " That 'll be the test . " <p> The test is ongoing . In July , Starmer was one of the few foreign leaders to call Trump after he survived an assassination attempt in Pennsylvania . The dinner at Trump Tower with Lammy in September was considered a success by the British . But there have been squalls , too . It was reported during the summer that Lammy 's team was in regular contact with the Trump campaign ; Chris LaCivita , Trump 's campaign manager , dismissed the story as fake news . " Other than a perfunctory 10 min meeting there is no contact , " he wrote on X. In October , the Trump campaign filed a Federal Election Commission complaint for " blatant foreign interference " against the Labour Party , for allegedly facilitating the travel and accommodation of volunteers to work on the campaign of Kamala Harris and Tim Walz . <p> Weinstein flagged the Chagos Islands deal and the U.K. 's willingness to honor the I.C.C . ' s arrest warrants for Israeli leaders as early points of tension with the new Administration . Both Marco Rubio , Trump 's nominee to be Secretary of State , and Mike Waltz , his choice for national-security adviser , have opposed Britain 's giving up sovereignty over Diego Garcia , arguing that it would cede U.S. influence in the Indian Ocean to China . Conservatives in the U.K. have also expressed doubts about the plan . " The question is going to be Chagos and the I.C.C. , " Weinstein said . " And then , you know , things could spin down worse from there . " <p> In 2019 , Kim Darroch , then the British Ambassador to the U.S. , was forced to resign after his diplomatic cables about the first Trump Administration -- describing it as clumsy and inept -- were leaked to the press . I asked Darroch if all the careful groundwork laid by Lammy and Starmer will make any difference once Trump returns to the White House . " The short , one-word answer to all of these hopes is said with a deep tone of skepticism , " he replied . " Maybe . " <p> In early December , wearing white tie , Starmer spoke at the Lord Mayor 's annual banquet , in London , and disavowed the idea that Britain now faces a choice between tying itself closer to the E.U. or to a Trump-led U.S. " I reject it utterly , " he said . " Attlee did not choose between allies . Churchill did not choose . " Deriding false choices is fine for a foreign-policy speech . But since Brexit , the U.K. has been economically and strategically off compass . Until the country settles on its next long-term destination , either closer to the E.U. or firmly within America 's orbit , every confounding global problem -- the climate crisis , A.I. , financial regulation , a domineering China , a Trump-led trade war -- will require asking which way to turn . <p> British officials know this and sometimes despair that their country has not found a way to be more hardheaded . " There 's no real theory of change and theory of power in the Foreign Office , " Casson , the former Ambassador , said . " There 's a sort of desire not to offend people . " Optimists sometimes envisage a post-Brexit U.K. as a " superconnector " -- a kind of entrep ? t , embodied by London 's financial center , court system , and expensive town houses -- sheathed in a memory of empire . But realists argue that a fork in the road is coming . " Do we fold in with the U.S. and ask for something in exchange for basically backing them wholesale , in competing with China ? Likewise , how close do we want to get to the E.U. ? " one serving diplomat asked . " You have to make some serious choices about where the U.K. sits . That 's the big test for Lammy over the next few years . " <p> This past fall , I joined Lammy on a brief visit to Kyiv . At 1:42 a.m. , the Foreign Secretary walked down a railway platform in Przemysl , on Poland 's eastern border , and boarded a Ukrainian diplomatic train alongside Antony Blinken , the U.S. Secretary of State . Lammy has made it a point to travel with his counterparts . This was the first joint visit by Britain 's and America 's top diplomats in more than a decade . They were in listening mode . Zelensky had replaced half his government the previous week -- the biggest reshuffle since the start of the war -- and Blinken and Lammy were considering the Ukrainian request to use European Storm Shadow missiles and the U.S.-made Army Tactical Missile System ( ATACMS ) to strike targets inside Russia . <p> The train entered Kyiv just after the morning rush hour . The four-vehicle British convoy did its best to keep pace with the American cavalcade , as it barrelled through the streets of the city . ( The U.S. State Department spends almost as much on its Embassies as the U.K. does on its entire diplomatic operation . ) At a conference at the Mariyinsky Palace , to mark ten years since Russia 's annexation of Crimea , Lammy once again drew on his ancestral past . " I feel personally about that battle against imperialism , " he told delegates . British politicians like to describe the U.K. as Ukraine 's " staunchest ally , " and Lammy has taken up the rhetoric with aplomb . " Crimea will be free . Ukraine will be free , " he promised . " Slava Ukraine . " In the afternoon , Lammy visited a fire station to inspect one of sixty British fire trucks that have been given to the country . " I know you do n't like the term , but you are heroes in our time , " he told Yuriy Tsykenyuk , who leads a mobile rescue center that responds to missile and drone strikes . <p> The war in Ukraine has been a lifeline for British diplomacy . Boris Johnson , after the miasma of Brexit and his government 's slapdash handling of the pandemic , seized on the U.K. 's onetime role as a protector of European security . " Britain was drowning , " Dmytro Kuleba , Ukraine 's Foreign Minister until last fall , told me . " The stance that the United Kingdom took , with regards to Russia 's aggression against Ukraine , saved the reputation of British foreign policy . " <p> " Careful of that rattler -- he did percussion for Steely Dan once , and he 'll never shut up about it . " <p> Cartoon by Sofia Warren <p> Link copied <p> In material terms , the U.K. has been the third-largest source of military aid to Ukraine -- after the U.S. and Germany -- but only Johnson got a croissant made in his honor by a Kyiv p ? tisserie , with a frizz of meringue to denote his messy hair . " He won all the hearts , " Kuleba said . Under the Conservatives , Britain was the first country to supply antitank weapons , battle tanks , and long-range missiles to Ukraine , along with open-ended financial assistance : some three billion pounds per year . Kuleba described a British " hunger for being first , for showing the leadership , for triggering conversations others were reluctant to do . " Labour 's approach has been much the same . " We have to stay the course . One of my jobs is to cajole , to encourage , to support , to beef up , to rally , if you like , European colleagues to Ukraine 's cause , " Lammy said . " This is existential for us . " <p> But the fervor and bipartisan character of Britain 's support for Ukraine does not disguise its brittleness . It is one thing to be first , but the U.K. has delivered fourteen tanks to Ukraine , less than half the number supplied by Slovenia and Croatia . ( Poland has sent more than three hundred . ) At one point in Kyiv , we stopped by the British Embassy . " Britain is GREAT " posters lined the walls . An air-conditioner dripped onto the floor . Amid a wash of previously announced funds and loan guarantees , the official press release describing Lammy 's visit disclosed a meagre twenty million pounds in additional aid , to pay for repairs to Ukraine 's electricity grid . <p> The U.K. tends to be spared the blame directed at other European democracies for having allowed their military power to wither . But its own has withered , too . Between 2010 and 2017 , British defense spending fell by twenty-two per cent , and , although it has increased in headline terms since then , day-to-day spending on the armed forces has continued to contract . " The U.K. has always been quite concerned with status-seeking , " Richard Whitman , a professor of politics and international relations at the University of Kent , said . That 's why the country has two aircraft carriers and a hundred-billion-pound nuclear-weapons program , but the entire British Army could fit inside Manchester United 's soccer stadium , with a few seats to spare . <p> Since Trump 's election , in November , various potential peace plans for Ukraine have circulated , some of which have included a demilitarized zone and a European peacekeeping force , backed by a U.S. security guarantee . But , unlike France , for example , British officials have been noticeably skittish about the possibility of deploying soldiers , under any scenario . " We are not committing U.K. troops to the theatre of action , " Lammy told reporters in late November . According to a recent study by the House of Lords International Relations and Defence Committee , the U.K. is already struggling to meet its current NATO obligation to field a single war-fighting division . <p> When I spoke to a former senior official in Trump 's first Administration about Britain 's credibility as a military partner , he recalled Jim Mattis , the former Secretary of Defense , complaining , " They just ca n't get their shit together . " ( In response , Mattis described the U.K. military as " grossly underfunded " but said that he " never doubted that the Brits would fight , and fight well , when the chips are down . " ) The former official went on , " They have kind of skated . I think the tradition and history of the relationship is what 's permitted that to happen . " He doubted that the U.K. would be able to contribute to a European peacekeeping force in Ukraine , even if it wanted to . " It 's a conceptually good outcome , " he said . " But when told to go do it , their Minister of Defense is going to say , With what and by whom ? " <p> In conversations with Lammy about the war , he insisted that Trump was a winner , albeit an unpredictable one , who would not sell Ukraine short , or leave Europe 's eastern border unstable . " I 'm focussed on the now , " Lammy said , " to get Ukraine in the strongest possible position into 2025 . " But the unambiguous -- and largely unexamined -- nature of the U.K. 's support for Ukraine means that there is n't a Plan B if the dynamic of the war shifts away from Kyiv this year . " The U.K. has a very big stake , but it does n't have a say , " Whitman said . " If there is the tapping on the shoulder from the Trump Administration , then that puts the U.K. in the worst of all possible worlds . It 's quite difficult to predict how the U.K. will manage that . " <p> Elsewhere in Europe , Russia 's recent superiority on the battlefield and Trump 's impatience with the conflict have contributed to a gloomy acceptance that Putin may be able to claim a form of victory . In late November , every Swedish household received a thirty-page booklet giving advice on what to do in case of war . Germany is mapping its underground shelters for a new emergency app . Kuleba urged the British government , and Lammy , to rediscover the diplomatic zest that the U.K. had shown in the early months of the invasion . " If the purpose to remain ' Great ' is still valid , you have to take a different approach , " he said . Experienced British diplomats whom I spoke to , however , were skeptical that the U.K. would have any grounds to resist what the Germans call a Diktatfrieden -- an imposed , and unsatisfying , peace -- mandated by the Trump Administration . Darroch told me , " Our job is to persuade them not to do that . But I do n't think you will get Europe united . " He continued , " There is an undercurrent . Even if it looks on the surface like we are all supporting Ukraine , a lot of people are praying for this war to end . " <p> Lammy enjoys being the Foreign Secretary . " I 'm very clear that this is the pinnacle of my career , " he told me . At a recent reception , in St. James 's Palace , he ran into Woolley , his old friend from Operation Black Vote . " He leaned in , " Woolley recounted , " and he said , ' I 'm loving it . It 's bear-trap laden , but it 's something I feel confident about doing . ' " Woolley was impressed , to a certain extent . " There will be a point in which people will say , O.K. , it 's easy to be safe , and it 's wonderful that you 've survived , " he said . " But you 're not there for either , you 're there to move the dial . " Lammy has taken a relentless " wheels-up " approach to the job . In his first five months , he visited more than fifty countries , at a rate of one every three days . When we met one Friday in his office , he briefly forgot where he had been that week . " Moldova , " an aide supplied . <p> He is the diplomatic face of a curious government . In numerical terms , Labour 's majority in the House of Commons makes it one of the most powerful British administrations of the past hundred years . Since taking office , however , it has been bumbling and unsure of itself . In October , after identifying economic growth as the country 's No. 1 priority , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Rachel Reeves , published a tax-raising budget that , so far , has only made matters worse . Starmer has relaunched his government at least twice . In early December , after shaking up his team in Downing Street , the Prime Minister replaced the five " missions " articulated during Labour 's election campaign with six " milestones " -- somewhat dour domestic-policy targets -- by which he wants voters to judge the government . " Foreign policy is a little bit ' nice to have ' for them , " a former Party official told me , of the ultra-pragmatic inner circle that now surrounds Starmer . " Their question would be , Does it make Keir look Presidential ? That leads you to quite a bad place . There 's not a natural stance . " <p> And yet , there is every reason to think Labour could rule Britain for the next ten years . And what other Western incumbent government can say that ? The day after Trump 's victory , when Lammy 's previous remarks about him were raised in the House of Commons ( sample tweet : " He is a racist KKK and Nazi sympathiser " ) , a spokesperson for Starmer said that Lammy would serve a full five-year term as the Foreign Secretary . " People expect this Labour government to get a second term , " Lammy said . " They 're looking to Britain for a degree of stability over this next decade . That 's a big opportunity for us . " <p> As Trump 's Inauguration approached , the air of hopeful preparation in British foreign-policy circles gave way to something closer to concern . " The unknowns are significant , " an official texted me . Attempting to decode Trump 's newfound desire to acquire Greenland , Lammy sounded as if he were trying to excuse the behavior of a drunk relative at a wedding . " I think that we know from Donald Trump 's first term that the intensity of his rhetoric and the unpredictability sometimes of what he said can be destabilizing , " Lammy told the BBC . " It 's not going to happen . " Last week , an anti-extremism unit at the Home Office was reported to be investigating Elon Musk 's tweets , after Musk took an avid interest in a long-standing British scandal , involving British Asian grooming gangs and child sexual abuse . Musk accused Starmer , the former prosecutor of England and Wales , of being " complicit in the RAPE OF BRITAIN . " Lammy assured reporters , with an air of desperation , that Musk would be confined to a " domestic portfolio " in the Trump Administration . <p> On January 15th , the government conceded that the Chagos Islands deal would not go ahead until it had been reviewed by Trump and his officials . The Conservative Party 's shadow Foreign Secretary , Priti Patel , crowed , " This is a complete humiliation for Keir Starmer and David Lammy . " <p> To somehow keep a lid on things , Starmer has chosen Peter Mandelson , a longtime ally of Blair and a former E.U. trade commissioner , as Britain 's new Ambassador to Washington . Mandelson is a deeply charming , borderline unctuous character . Shortly before he was appointed , in late December , he praised Lammy 's work so far with the incoming Administration . " Absolutely spot on , " Mandelson said . He joked about the limits of the U.K. 's latitude in international affairs . " We do n't always have to ask the question What do the Americans think , or what do the Americans want us to do ? But it 's the right second or third question . " On X , LaCivita , Trump 's campaign manager , described Mandelson as an " absolute moron . " <p> The last time I spoke to Lammy , he was eating an early lunch at his desk . I mentioned something that John Casson , the former Ambassador and Cameron adviser , had said : that for more than seventy years , Britain 's foreign policy had been defined first by the clarity of the Cold War and then by its membership in the E.U. " We never wondered which side to be on , " Casson had observed . Now those certainties are gone . " Strategy is not really a document or a set of goals , " he had continued . " It 's a posture . It 's like sailing a boat in choppy waters -- you are going to have to tack left and right , but you know you have to get over there . " I asked Lammy what was guiding him . " I think it 's pragmatic , " he replied . " I accept they are choppy waters . They are choppy waters , " he added , before finding his stride . " But never write off the British . " ? <p> Published in the print edition of the January 27 , 2025 , issue , with the headline " Wheels Up . "
