<h> A Witness in Assad 's Dungeons <p> Hamada spent years describing to Western officials the torment that he and countless others -- including Motasem Kattan , above -- had endured in Syrian prisons . Since the regime fell , the evidence of a ruthless police state has grown overwhelming.Photographs by Moises Saman / Magnum for The New Yorker <p> A few days after the Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad fled into exile , in December , an elderly woman sat on the sidewalk outside a morgue in Damascus . Her head wrapped in a scarf , she rocked back and forth and clasped her hands , wailing about what she had lost to Assad 's regime . " Help me , " she called . " They took my sons . Where are they ? " <p> A crowd of people stepped gingerly around her . They were there not to search for the woman 's sons but to mourn another of Assad 's victims . They had been gathering for an hour or more -- a few family members at first , but eventually hundreds of friends and sympathizers . Finally , a coffin was carried from the morgue and placed on the roof of a minivan , which had a photograph of the deceased fixed to the front bumper . <p> In recent days , the same image had gone up around the streets of Damascus . Plastered on walls and electrical poles , it depicted a slender man in his forties , with a gaunt , boyish face , high cheekbones , and all-consuming eyes , staring straight at the camera with a fearless expression . The man , Mazen al-Hamada , is regarded as a martyr by the rebels who deposed Assad after thirteen scourging years of civil war . " Mazen is an icon of the revolution , " one activist told me . " We will teach our children about him . " <p> Hamada was not a fighter . He served the rebellion by proclaiming the bloody facts of Assad 's treatment of his own people . His work as an activist had landed him in prison several times , including a final stint , starting in 2020 , from which he did not emerge . After the rebels surged into the city , his body was discovered in the morgue of a military hospital , along with those of forty other victims of the regime . A coroner found that Hamada had died of " the shock of pain . " In other words , he had been tortured to death . <p> During Assad 's rule , official autopsies of prisoners routinely said that " the patient died when his heart stopped , " eliding the specifics of torture . Hamada knew about these torments intimately , and during the war he travelled to Europe and the United States and gave searing testimony about Assad 's dungeons . In his appearances , he recounted how he was hung from handcuffs hooked to metal bars and beaten ; how his ribs were broken when a torturer jumped on his back ; how his penis was placed in a clamp and squeezed until he feared that it would be severed ; how guards repeatedly sodomized him with a metal pole . As Hamada spoke , he sometimes wept openly ; videos of the testimony are excruciating to watch . He noted that he had witnessed others die from similar treatment , and vowed to see his torturers brought to justice , if it was the last thing he did before he died . <p> Few other Syrians who made it out of the country dared to speak of their experiences ; most feared that their relatives back home would also be arrested . Hamada , less cautious , spent six years telling the world what happened inside Assad 's network of political prisons . Then , in 2020 , he returned to Damascus , for reasons that his loved ones are still debating . Within hours of his arrival , he was detained , and vanished into the same prisons he had spoken of abroad . <p> Hundreds of friends and supporters gathered for Hamada 's memorial , in Damascus . <p> During his memorial , his coffin was secured on the van and draped in the Syrian flag -- not the one that hung from Assad 's palace but an earlier version , with three red stars , that had been revived as an emblem of the revolution . The van pulled into the street , and the crowd followed , muttering lamentations . A few blocks away was a mosque , where handbills printed with the same image of Hamada 's face hung alongside defaced posters of government officials . As men carried the coffin up the stairs to the mosque , the chanting grew louder : " Mazen , be at peace -- we will continue the struggle . " While a cleric recited the prescribed prayers for a martyr , new mourners arrived , weeping and chanting and holding up photographs of their own lost relatives . <p> When the coffin was brought back into the street , the procession moved on toward the walled Old City , at the heart of Damascus . By now , mourners filled the street , and the mood was cathartic : people chanted and yelled , and a few fired shots into the air . Many held up phones and filmed as they walked . It was the first time in thirteen years that they had been able to celebrate a dissident without being arrested , or even fired on by snipers . Hamada 's death , paradoxically , had provided some of his countrymen with a first breath of freedom . <p> At Al-Hijaz Square , the procession came to an end , and the van took Hamada 's body out past the edge of town to the Najha cemetery , which sprawls across acres of rolling land near the Damascus airport . It was an inconvenient place for mourners to visit , but the city 's main cemetery had long since been filled up . At the edge of Najha , the regime had sent earthmovers to excavate huge slits in the ground : unmarked mass graves , dug to accept Assad 's victims . <p> The scale of Syria 's bloodshed , and of the regime 's repression , is unique among modern conflicts . The war is thought to have killed an appalling six hundred and twenty thousand people , from a population of twenty-two million . Fourteen million more were forced from their homes and fled to safety , either inside Syria or abroad . As many as a hundred and fifty thousand people disappeared , and presumably died at the hands of Assad 's torturers and executioners . Most probably ended up in mass graves . <p> The families of the missing usually had no information about their loved ones . In the peculiar horror of the Syrian system of terror , it was widely believed that merely inquiring about detainees could worsen their mistreatment and even hasten their death . During the hours after Assad fled into exile , though , the guards at his prisons abandoned their posts , and inmates poured out . A few Syrians were reunited with their long-lost relatives . Most were not . <p> For more than a week , bereft people camped out on the grounds of Sednaya , a notorious prison on the outskirts of Damascus , and hunted for a rumored underground " red prison . " Some dug holes , and even blasted through concrete , in a frantic search for relatives who might still be held in the darkness below . The red prison seemed like a myth born of desperate hope , and most likely it was . In the end , no underground chambers with men alive in them were found at Sednaya , or anywhere else in Syria . <p> Mazen al-Hamada 's relatives learned of his death in a more prosaic way : photographs from the military morgue circulated on social media . Eight days after the fall of Damascus , I visited his brother Fawzi 's family at their home , a simple but comfortable apartment furnished with brown sofas and warmed by an old-fashioned gas heater . Its only adornment was a framed picture of Mazen , the same one that had been on the handbills . <p> The Hamadas -- Fawzi ; his wife , Majida ; and their adult son , Jad -- were still dressed in black mourners ' clothes , but they were hospitable , offering small cups of bitter coffee and dates stuffed with walnuts . Fawzi , a thin man with glasses and stubble , had a veiled , inward manner and an almost inaudible voice . He spoke some English but preferred to let Jad , an open-faced young man with a tidy ponytail , interpret . <p> They told me that , when Jad had first looked at the photographs from the morgue , he saw a man with a yellowed face , frozen in a horrifying rictus , and feared that it was his uncle . He passed his phone to Fawzi , who immediately recognized the face . The next day , they travelled to the morgue . It was Mazen , without question ; there were two telltale freckles on his right cheek and a scar on one eyebrow . After they identified the body , a doctor told them , to their immense sadness , that Mazen had likely died no more than ten days before ; he had still been alive when the rebels began their triumphant advance toward the capital . <p> As Jad spoke in schoolbook English , Fawzi listened and nodded or whispered corrections . Every now and then , he drew on a vape . Majida sat with an immovably serious expression ; she told me later that it had been a long time since she was able to let down her guard , or to feel any kind of happiness . Jad sat close to his parents , putting his arm around them for comfort . Occasionally , he stroked their backs or shoulders , as if brushing away imaginary dust . <p> They told me that Mazen was not their only missing family member . In all , five close relatives , including a nephew and a brother-in-law , were believed dead . That week , they had learned that another of Fawzi 's brothers , imprisoned years before , had died in 2015 ; a former cellmate of his had brought the news . No one knew where his body was , but the family believed the cellmate 's account . Fawzi had been imprisoned himself , and he knew what happened to men on the inside . <p> Fawzi explained that he , too , had been a dissident , engaged in anti-government protests . But , as the country descended into civil war , he had made the opposite choice from his brother . While Mazen travelled abroad to draw attention to the rebels ' cause , Fawzi and his family went into internal exile : they found a place to live in a nondescript neighborhood where nobody knew them and remained there for thirteen years , hoping to evade notice and stay alive . For Fawzi , the trip to identify his brother 's body marked the end of a clandestine life . It was the first time he had left his neighborhood since the war began . <p> When I asked Fawzi how he remembered his brother , he thought for a moment and said , " Mazen had a beautiful soul . " Brightening , as if recalling his brother 's image , he added , " He also had a beautiful smile . " <p> The two grew up in Deir ez-Zor , the largest city in northeastern Syria , a proud , ancient place on the banks of the Euphrates . There has been a settlement at Deir ez-Zor for at least eleven thousand years , and through the centuries the city has been fought over by a succession of armed invaders . In 1915 , it was the last destination for Armenians forced into the desert by the Turks ' genocidal campaign against them . Survivors credited the city 's mayor and its citizens with providing sanctuary ; helping people in need is both an Arab custom and a local tradition . <p> Mazen al-Hamada was born in 1977 into a large and influential clan . There was money to be made in the region -- from cotton , wheat , and , more recently , oil -- and his father had built a thriving business as a livestock trader , able to comfortably support seventeen children . " Mazen was the youngest , and he was spoiled by our father , " Fawzi said fondly . The family kept homing pigeons , which Mazen loved . As he got older , he was able to indulge a taste in motorcycles and well-tailored clothes . <p> The Hamada siblings went into middle-class professions , Fawzi told me : " teachers , doctors , and so forth . " Most were also anti-government activists , a family tradition that went back to the time of Hafez al-Assad , Bashar 's father . Hafez seized power in 1970 , and built a dictatorship that favored his minority Shiite sect , the Alawites . He sustained his power through stringent control of the socialist Baath Party and its military and intelligence apparatuses , and by encouraging a cult of personality . In 1982 , the Muslim Brotherhood staged an uprising in the city of Hama . Hafez responded with a merciless campaign that , within a few weeks , destroyed much of the city and killed at least forty thousand civilians . <p> Fawzi told me wryly that the Assad regime had repeatedly derailed his efforts to build a life . An early job as a lab technician was interrupted by five years of compulsory military service . He 'd gone to college to study French , but was imprisoned for taking part in protests ; when he was released , four years later , he resolved to do something more practical , so he became a medical researcher . With evident pride , he told me that he had participated in " the fight against AIDS , " as a blood specialist in a screening facility run by the Ministry of Health . <p> When Assad 's prison guards fled their posts , they left behind troves of documents that fastidiously catalogued the workings of the penal system . <p> Throughout , Fawzi remained engaged in politics . He joined a reformist party , which eventually merged into a coalition called the National Democratic Rally . After the crushing attacks in Hama , the regime had maintained a state of emergency , which gave it cover to suppress civic freedoms in the name of security . The Rally called to end the emergency , and was swiftly punished ; one of the coalition leaders spent eighteen years in solitary confinement . Still , the Hamadas retained hope . Fawzi said that Mazen " grew up listening to his older brothers talk about making Syria a free and democratic country . " <p> After high school , Mazen studied petroleum engineering , and eventually got a job at Schlumberger , a multinational company that Syria 's government had brought in to drill oil . The business was hugely profitable -- at one point , petroleum accounted for a quarter of the government 's revenue -- but there was labor unrest at the company , where the workers were trying to organize a union . Mazen took the side of the workers . Fawzi said that government agents threatened him , but he did n't back down , and the union ultimately won most of its demands . <p> This was an unusual conflict in a country where dissent had been crushed , and it attracted attention in the international media . It also apparently attracted resentment from Syrian officials , but for the time being Mazen was not persecuted , and he lived comfortably . " Mazen 's income was good , " Fawzi said . " He was generous . He was a very social person and formed a lot of strong friendships . He liked to have a drink and throw parties . " Fawzi recalled the period as a kind of golden age for his brother . In 2000 , though , Hafez al-Assad died . His son Bashar took power , and in time proved to be an even more vicious tyrant than his father . <p> Bashar was never intended to lead the country . The heir apparent was his older brother Bassel -- a military commander and an accomplished horseman whom the regime 's loyalists sometimes referred to as the Golden Knight . Bashar was an ophthalmology student in London , a weak-chinned introvert who was widely seen as a bit insubstantial . But , in 1994 , Bassel died in a high-speed car crash , and Bashar was summoned home to be groomed for power . When his father died , he was made the head of the Baath Party and the head of the armed forces . Though he was only thirty-four , six years too young to be President , the parliament accommodatingly lowered the minimum age . <p> Bashar ran for office as the sole candidate and was elected to a seven-year term ; in the next election , he won with an implausible ninety-eight per cent of the vote . He spoke of building a more equitable Syria , but not much really changed . The Assad clan and its friends remained in control of the security and intelligence agencies , as well as the most lucrative parts of the private sector . <p> The revolution began with an inexplicable overstep . In 2011 , in the southern city of Daraa , a group of teen-age boys were caught painting anti-government graffiti on a wall , and , rather than simply reprimand them , secret police tortured them to death . The news inflamed an already restive populace . Protesters gathered in cities across the country , and Fawzi and Mazen got involved . " There was a soccer game under way in Deir ez-Zor , and our team tried to protest , " Fawzi said . The regime squelched the demonstration , but that only encouraged the local youth to take up the cause . <p> In the beginning , the rallies in Deir ez-Zor were small , with groups of forty or fifty gathering to shout " Freedom ! " and " The Syrians are one ! " The protests were held on Friday , the day of prayer , so that people could attend after services . " They lasted only thirty minutes , after which everyone would return home , in order to stay safe , " Fawzi said . But the brothers were working to expand the movement . Mazen recruited protesters , then filmed events ; he posted the videos to an online news site that he 'd helped create , and sent them on to international television channels . <p> " Who am I going to gossip with about our couple friends ? " <p> Cartoon by Suerynn Lee <p> Link copied <p> As local demonstrators co ? rdinated with allies in a nearby neighborhood , the crowds grew . Before long there were protests every day , and demonstrators were staying on the street till evening . Majida attended the rallies , and to her alarm saw that her daughters had sneaked there , too . <p> Fawzi recalled that the protests in Deir ez-Zor led to a huge event in the central square , in which some twenty thousand people assembled and a statue of Bassel al-Assad was knocked to the ground . Revolutionary slogans spread across the country ; people gathered to chant " Get out , Bashar " and sing " Pay your blood for freedom . " The regime was threatened , and its response escalated rapidly : it sent security men to menace and detain protesters , and sometimes ordered snipers to shoot into the crowds . Fawzi was arrested , and by the time he was released the Army had taken over Deir ez-Zor . <p> Fearing that he would be assassinated , Fawzi fled to Damascus to live in hiding . His instinct proved correct : soon after he left , an Army tank rolled up to the family 's house , and officers emerged to ask where Fawzi was . Majida said that she did n't know , and when security men returned later she told them the same thing . Eventually , to keep up the ruse , she filed for divorce , claiming that Fawzi had abandoned her . <p> Mazen was also arrested , twice , and though he was held for only a couple of weeks , it was clear that he had become a target . He followed Fawzi to Damascus , taking care not to let the regime track their interactions . They lived apart , with Mazen staying at the home of one of their sisters , and they avoided cell phones , which could be tapped or traced . They communicated only when they could meet face to face and make certain that they had not been followed . <p> The political uprising quickly turned into an armed insurrection . As the regime besieged cities where rebels had dug in , the brothers joined an underground relief effort for trapped civilians . In March , 2012 , Mazen and two of his nephews were in a caf ? , meeting a contact to organize a shipment of baby formula to Daraa , when regime agents burst in , handcuffed them , and forced them into an S.U.V. " I had no idea where we were going , " Mazen told my colleague Ben Taub in an interview a few years later . " The whole way , they were telling us , ' We 're going to execute you . ' " <p> They were taken to a detention center operated by Air Force intelligence at a sprawling airfield in Mezzeh , on the western outskirts of Damascus . Mazen managed to call Fawzi to get help paying a bribe . " He asked us to send fifty thousand Syrian pounds , " about nine hundred dollars at the time , " which we managed to get to him . " Later , Mazen paid two hundred thousand pounds to his interrogators , in the hope of better treatment . <p> Paying bribes to Assad 's henchmen was part of the ritual of repression . Relatives were sometimes able to free their loved ones , but often they failed , and had to live with the knowledge that they had helped enrich their tormentors . For Mazen 's family , the bribes were a partial success . He did not escape brutal torture , but he was eventually sent to recuperate at a military hospital in Damascus , and was then allowed to go to a civilian prison . After a few months , he was brought to court , where he gave what may have been his first testimony about his mistreatment : with the judge watching , he took off his shirt to show the evidence of cigarette burns , welts , and broken ribs . The judge , apparently moved , released him . <p> Mazen had spent some fifteen months in custody , but he was extraordinarily lucky . According to Fawzi , the two nephews who were arrested with him could n't work the system , so they were sent to Sednaya , which by then had become a virtual death camp . The Association of Detainees and Missing Persons of Sednaya Prison later estimated that at least thirty thousand people had been executed there between the beginning of the war and 2018 -- an average of ten every day for nearly a decade . Mazen 's nephews were apparently among them . <p> The Hamadas , sure that Mazen would inevitably be picked up again , persuaded him to leave the country . He set off on a well-established smugglers ' route . He crossed the border into Turkey , took an inflatable boat across the Mediterranean to the Greek islands , then went on to the European mainland , where borders were porous enough to cross on foot . After several months of travel , he arrived in the Netherlands , where one of his sisters was living . <p> Mazen was safe in Europe , but the civil war had grown more inflamed . Regional powers were getting involved , and the rebel forces were increasingly divided between secular freedom fighters and Islamist combatants . ISIS had swept into the country in 2014 , seizing the city of Raqqa and pronouncing it the capital of a new caliphate . The city became the headquarters of a campaign of death and abuse , which included public executions , videotaped decapitations of foreign hostages , and slave auctions of captive Yazidi girls and women . ISIS soon surrounded Deir ez-Zor , less than eighty miles away , and launched a siege that dragged on for more than three years . The U.N . carried out hundreds of aerial food drops , and nearly half the civilian population was able to flee , but hundreds died , and much of the city was destroyed . <p> Deir ez-Zor was also heavily bombed by Russian warplanes , which had been called in to help Assad 's troops . Russian planes also repeatedly struck around the rebel-held city of Aleppo , and , after a devastating air raid there in 2018 , a deal was reached allowing rebels and their families to evacuate to a safe zone on the Turkish border . Afterward , the Assad regime reassumed control of most of the rest of Syria . By then , citizens had begun fleeing , in a vast exodus that eventually included three million migrants to Turkey and more than nine hundred thousand to Germany . <p> Perversely , the flow of refugees to the West helped turn public opinion against intervening in the war . It coincided with an upsurge of Islamist terror attacks and a seemingly unstoppable flow of migrants from Afghanistan , Iraq , and parts of Africa . In places like Freiburg , where a group of predominantly Syrian immigrants participated in a gang rape that became a major news story , the influx fuelled security fears and anti-immigrant sentiment . In Europe and the U.S. , far-right politicians fulminated that the West was under siege . <p> The predominantly Sunni suburbs where the armed resistance against Assad took root are now largely reduced to collapsed concrete slabs , twisted rebar , and dust . <p> Still , as more refugees emerged and related their experience , it was becoming harder for even skeptical observers to deny the atrocities being carried out by Assad 's regime . A year before Hamada fled to Europe , a former Syrian military officer had made the same journey , bringing with him fifty-three thousand digital images of dead people whom it had been his job to photograph in military hospitals in Damascus . The files provided evidence that some eleven thousand prisoners had been tortured to death or executed in the city 's intelligence prisons -- including the one in which Mazen had been held . <p> The officer remained anonymous , identifying himself only as Caesar , but experts quickly verified his photographs -- documentary proof of systematic brutality . The images ultimately formed the basis for a presentation delivered in the U.S. Congress , the European Parliament , and the United Nations , put together by the Syrian Emergency Task Force , a U.S.-based agency that sought to raise awareness about the regime . <p> The S.E.T.F. 's director , a Syrian American named Mouaz Moustafa , met Mazen in 2015 , on a trip to the Netherlands . " He had been in touch and told me he knew who Caesar was and that he could help identify some of the people in his photographs , " Moustafa recalled , on a recent Zoom call from Washington , D.C. <p> Moustafa was cautious at first , but Mazen impressed him as sincere , and his information was detailed and credible . " He had survived this ordeal that no one should ever have to endure , " Moustafa said . " It was scary . " The two met with Stephen Rapp , who was then the U.S. Ambassador-at-Large for War Crimes Issues , at a hotel near Amsterdam 's Schiphol airport . In the meeting , Mazen explained that he had been treated for his injuries in the military hospitals where Caesar had taken photographs . <p> Mazen began working with the S.E.T.F. " He became like family , really , " Moustafa said . As the organization travelled with the evidentiary trove of Caesar 's photographs , Mazen gave it a human face . He was a charismatic presence : dapper , engaging , and ebullient when he was n't talking about torture . Moustafa organized meetings with a long list of policymakers . On just one morning in 2017 , they met with Senators Marco Rubio , Richard Blumenthal , and John Boozman , as well as staffers on the Appropriations Committee . Natalie Larrison , the S.E.T.F. 's Arkansas-based director for humanitarian projects , recalled recently , " We spent days together in Congress , where he spoke to everyone , and he had everyone in tears . He was the most effective speaker we had on behalf of the Syrian experience . " <p> Mazen 's appearances were also effective in raising the profile of the S.E.T.F. , and he agreed to an endless series of appearances . There were trips to Boston and Chicago , media interviews , and talks at universities , churches , and high schools . In Europe , he met with politicians and members of the European Parliament , relating over and over what he had endured . In 2017 , Sara Afshar , a British filmmaker , released a documentary called " Syria 's Disappeared , " which brought Mazen 's story to audiences worldwide . In the film , he sits with Afshar in a kitchen and re ? nacts his torture , almost physically reliving the experience , until he begins to weep before the camera . <p> Cartoon by Roz Chast <p> Link copied <p> Larrison said that Mazen was still suffering the effects of years of torment . " He was fun and lively to be with , but there was a lot of up and down , " she told me . " He got really excited listening to Syrian revolutionary songs and recalling happy family moments , but also shared heartbreaking things that were taking place in his home town . " She remembered a moment when Mazen heard that the farm where his family kept pigeons had been destroyed by bombing . " That really broke his heart , " she said . <p> In the Netherlands , the government gave Mazen asylum and found him an apartment . Sakir Khader , a young Palestinian Dutch photographer who befriended him , recalled that Mazen would make him tea , and they would go to the beach together . " He was traumatized , but he was always funny . He would say things in his Deir ez-Zor accent . " Khader laughed , remembering , " He 'd say , ' We 're going to go back and we 're going to fuck Bashar al-Assad . ' " <p> Still , Mazen was increasingly unsettled . Between his trips to offer testimony , the Dutch state offered to pay him for community service , including gardening work . The arrangement proved unviable . Khader said , " It was n't the humiliation of it that bothered him -- it was that he had n't recovered from what they had done to him in Syria . He was paranoid . He thought people were looking to harm him . He could n't work ! His home was his safe place . " He went to a therapist , but it seemed to have little effect . " It was like he was still there in Syria -- death was in his eyes , " Khader said . " His body was here , but his soul was not . It had gone long ago . " <p> One afternoon in Damascus , I visited one of Assad 's most notorious prisons : Branch 251 of the Syrian General Intelligence Directorate . The facility , known as Al-Khatib , sits incongruously at the edge of a community park in a predominantly Christian neighborhood . The park is surrounded by small apartment buildings and middle-class amenities : there is a tailor 's shop and a small caf ? , and not far away is a florist , a dog-groomer , a snooker club , and a gym . To create a prison there , the regime had seized two apartment buildings , closed off the streets with iron gates , and then converted the park into an open-air garage and refuelling spot for vehicles . Residents of the other buildings were free to come and go , as long as they identified themselves to the perimeter guards . <p> On my visit , a handful of long-haired rebels were watching over the entrance . One led me down into the dark maw of an underground cellblock , which connected the two buildings . There was a tiny cell , its walls painted deep red and carved with graffiti , where prisoners who were to be executed were kept . Next to it was an identical cell , painted black . If you were put in the black cell , the guard said , you would never leave it alive . He pointed out blindfolds , handcuffs , and torture instruments that had been left lying around . There was a tool that seemed purpose-built for stabbing -- about a foot long , with a curved handle and a steel blade filed into the shape of a talon . Not far away was a box of metal spikes . <p> Outside , several elderly men sat in the sunlight , having tea with the rebel guards . They lived in the neighborhood , they said , waving to nearby apartment buildings . I asked if they had ever been inside Al-Khatib , and they shook their heads . " Not until Assad left , the other day , " one said . Did they know what went on inside ? They shook their heads again . <p> One of the men was a widower in his seventies , retired from running a chemical-dye business . He invited me for coffee in his living room , a pleasant space with framed family portraits and side tables set with embroidered doilies . He had got a good deal on the place , he explained : he had been able to buy a big apartment , with a balcony overlooking the park , for much less than it would have cost elsewhere . I noted that one of the living-room windows looked out at the upper floors of Al-Khatib , about twenty feet away . What was it like living next door to a place like that , I asked ? He fell silent a moment , then said , " Sometimes we would hear screams . " He brayed strangely , imitating the noise . " It was not nice , " he said . " But otherwise our lives were normal . " <p> Officials in the U.S. and Europe seemed no less able to set aside the evidence of abuses . In 2012 , President Barack Obama announced that if Assad used chemical weapons against his people it would represent a " red line " that would have " enormous consequences . " The next year , Assad used nerve gas in civilian areas of Damascus , and there was no retaliation . Instead , the U.S. government went on to negotiate several ceasefire deals with the regime and its Russian allies -- accords that calmed the fighting but left Assad in power . <p> A notorious prison known as Al-Khatib was situated in a residential neighborhood in Damascus . In apartments within earshot of the regime 's torture cells , locals tried to maintain normal lives . <p> Blankets used by prisoners in Al-Khatib . In some cells , inmates were packed so tightly that they were forced to sit hunched up during the day and to sleep pressed together at night . <p> After each meeting with officials , Mazen hoped that someone would finally take decisive action against Assad . Congress eventually passed the Caesar Syria Civilian Protection Act , which called for sanctions against those who aided the regime or its allies -- but this did little to change the reality on the ground . When the U.S. finally deployed troops , it was to protect its own interests . Obama sent soldiers to fight alongside Kurdish rebels to destroy ISIS strongholds . Later , President Donald Trump assigned the military to protect oil fields . <p> Mazen found the enduring impunity of the regime increasingly difficult to comprehend . Stephen Rapp recalled bumping into him outside the White House , after yet another meeting . " I could see that he was n't happy , " he said . Larrison added , " Every time he told his story , it hurt him , but he did n't hold back . He was worn out afterward , but there was also an anger growing in him because of the inaction and empty promises . " <p> At some point in 2018 , Mazen began to succumb to a breakdown . Fawzi learned about it from their sister in the Netherlands . " She called us and said that Mazen was in bad shape , depressed , just staying in his room and smoking , " he recalled . " I spoke with him , and Mazen acknowledged his despair . I told him that the international community would take its time but in the end it would do something . I told him , ' Take care of yourself . Go to therapy . ' He went twice and then he got worse -- he said it was n't working . He asked for money . We sent him five thousand dollars so he could go back to the therapist . But he did n't go . " <p> Mazen became increasingly bitter and antisocial . Friends say that he used drugs and behaved erratically , staying awake for days on end and growing alarmingly thin . In social-media posts and in conversation , he spoke furiously about Westerners and their allies the Kurds . When Khader expressed concern , Mazen sent him a chiding message : " Do n't bring up psychological issues with me . I 'll heal in my country . " One day in 2018 , Khader recalled , " he told me to fuck off . " He had asked Mazen to participate in a documentary about the difficulties that refugees faced in the Netherlands . Mazen refused , saying , " Everyone wants to use me . " After that , Khader said , he called many times to repair the relationship , but Mazen remained angry . <p> Late that year , Mazen sent Khader another message , announcing that he was planning to return to Syria . He wanted to go home -- to listen to prayers in the mosque and eat a meal with his family . Khader did n't know what to do . " I let him say whatever he said , because I did n't want to bother him , and he said he did n't want anyone around him . " <p> Soon afterward , Khader went to Syria himself , to document the war as a photojournalist . After a few months , he travelled on to Iraq . In early 2020 , before the two men could reconnect , Khader heard that Mazen had followed through on his pledge . <p> Mazen 's loved ones still struggle to understand why he went back to Syria , when he must have known that the regime would kill him . The stories that they recount differ in details , but they share a basic trajectory . Mazen lost his apartment in the Netherlands , and , after a rootless period , he went to stay with his nephew Ziad , who lived in Krefeld , a town across the German border . When he arrived , he was dishevelled and acting strangely ; he said that he 'd been robbed of his laptop and his money . <p> While he was in Germany , he visited the Syrian Embassy in Berlin -- perhaps several times . On one visit , he secured an expedited passport . When he came home and showed it off , Ziad was so horrified that he and his wife secretly ran it through their washing machine , to make it impossible to use . Mazen was increasingly despondent . At times , he set out pictures of Obama and other Western leaders and argued with them . He talked obsessively about a guard who had tortured him , and one day he led Ziad into the bathroom to reveal a terrible consequence of his imprisonment : his genitals were mangled , leaving him unable to have children . " I have no future , " he said . <p> " She says she 's on her way , but she has n't even left the house . " <p> Cartoon by Lynn Hsu <p> Link copied <p> Not long afterward , he disappeared and set off for Syria . He must have been given a new passport -- which his family and friends cite as evidence that the Assad regime lured him to Damascus . " It was clear they wanted Mazen back , " Mouaz Moustafa said . Mazen 's supporters speak of times that he was seen with a woman who was known to work at the Embassy . Moustafa believes that he encountered a group of expats in Berlin who were linked to Assad 's intelligence apparatus , and that they promised him he could play a key part in ending the war . " Mazen had acquired some delusions of grandeur , " he said . " They used his delusions to convince him to go back to Damascus , and they told him , ' They 'll roll out the red carpet for you . ' " <p> Another Syrian exile in Germany told me that she , too , believed Assad 's agents had persuaded Mazen to make the trip , but she suggested that hubris was not his only motivation . When he told her of his plan , she recalled , she begged him not to go , but he said that he was worried about his family : the regime had threatened to arrest one of his sisters . <p> At the Berlin airport , according to an account posted online and then deleted , Mazen ran into an acquaintance and disclosed his plans . ( The account noted that he was accompanied by the woman linked to the Syrian Embassy . ) As word spread that Mazen was heading to Syria , alarmed phone calls went back and forth among his friends and relatives . Soon after his plane touched down in Damascus , Ziad reached him on his cell phone . He recalls that Mazen seemed to have realized that he had made a mistake . " Pray for me , nephew , " he said , sounding frightened . " I 'm waiting in the transit lounge , and then I 'll fly to Sudan . " Before the call ended , Ziad heard voices warning Mazen to watch what he said . <p> At the Damascus airport , Mazen made a few last frantic calls . He reached Natalie Larrison , of the S.E.T.F. , but all she could make out was the word " Damascus " in Arabic , and then the connection cut off . Before dawn , according to Fawzi , Mazen called one of their sisters , asking her to bring him money at the airport -- perhaps to pay a bribe and perhaps to buy a ticket for another flight . The sister felt that it was unsafe to travel at that hour , so she went at daybreak and asked after Mazen . By then , he had been arrested and taken to the Air Force-intelligence prison . No one saw him again until his body showed up in the military morgue , five years later . <p> One of the surreal legacies of the war is the juxtaposition of neighborhoods that were pulverized by fighting and others that were left unscathed . Regime strongholds -- such as the Old City and the area of parks and ministries that sits below Assad 's hilltop palace -- remain nearly pristine . The poorer , predominantly Sunni Muslim suburbs where the armed resistance against Assad took root are now largely reduced to collapsed concrete slabs , twisted rebar , and dust . <p> In Damascus , an accountant named Omar pointed out his apartment . It was in a comfortable residential building that , to one direction , faced a tree-lined park and streets set with caf ? s and restaurants . To the other , across a swath of scrubland dotted with auto-repair shops and small farms , was Jobar , a neighborhood of concrete apartment blocks . A mostly Sunni area , it was taken over by rebels early in the war and became the site of several exceptionally fierce battles , including some in which the regime deployed sarin gas . Now Jobar is a landscape of flattened buildings that evoke Dresden in the Second World War -- or , perhaps , contemporary Gaza . During the fighting , bullets fired from the Jobar side occasionally hit Omar 's building . But his apartment was n't damaged , he explained ; it was on the safe side . <p> When Fawzi picked a place to live in Damascus , he surveyed the city 's neighborhoods carefully . He settled on Jaramana , a lower-middle-class area with a bustling shopping district flanked by rows of drab residential streets . Jaramana has residents from many sects , but the majority belong to the Druze faith , whose leaders had kept their community out of the protest movement and had thus been allowed to police themselves . As the war raged on , the neighborhood remained essentially untouched . <p> Motasem Kattan in the Palestine Branch , the prison where he was held for fifteen months . <p> A year after Fawzi arrived , Majida and their children made their way to the capital , too . For about a year , they lived separately ; only after they were sure that they were not under surveillance did they move in together . Once reunited , they paid the rent in cash and kept to themselves , careful to avoid any hint that they were associated with the rebellion . To disguise their family name , Fawzi adhered to the Arab custom of calling himself after his eldest son , becoming Abu Jad -- " father of Jad . " He dressed habitually in a blue jacket , which connoted a connection to Air Force intelligence . Jad said that his mother and two sisters went without hijabs , " free style , " to enhance the impression that they were connected to the secular regime . " The neighbors did n't bother us , because they were afraid we would take them to prison . " He added , with a laugh , that not even their downstairs neighbor , a military officer , suspected their real identity . Fawzi , listening in , smiled slyly and nodded . <p> When the family arrived in Jaramana , Jad was about eleven , and his sisters were a few years older . They quickly grasped the rules of their situation . " Our school friends did n't visit us -- we knew not to bring anyone home , " he said . " I understood that I could n't have fights or call attention to myself . " He often woke up at night to find his father smoking and whispering into a computer microphone , talking via a secure connection with old comrades . Sometimes Fawzi met with them in person , but he went furtively -- " like a mouse , " he said -- keeping to side streets and travelling on foot , to avoid vehicle checkpoints . <p> They lived frugally , off the family 's savings , and Majida helped make ends meet by tutoring students in Arabic . Sometimes they sang folk songs from Deir ez-Zor , with Jad accompanying them on the oud . To keep from being heard , they shut the door , drew curtains over the windows , and had what Jad called " a quiet party for our nearest and dearest . " <p> Still , it pained Fawzi that his brother could n't be with them . About a year after Mazen returned to Syria , a fellow-activist wrote on social media that he had died of torture at the Air Force-intelligence prison . Fawzi did n't want to believe the claim , and he was reassured when a former inmate posted a video a few months later claiming to have seen Mazen . The inmate said that he was being tortured to make him go on television and recant his accusations , but that he had refused . Soon , another released prisoner confirmed that Mazen was alive . He added that he was very courageous , but also mentally unbalanced because of the harshness of his treatment ; along with the torture , his jailers were subjecting him to a starvation diet . <p> Though Mazen would not survive to describe his last imprisonment , other former inmates have emerged to tell of similar experiences . On the morning after Assad 's escape from Damascus , in the underground dungeon of a fearsome prison known as the Palestine Branch , a twenty-seven-year-old farmer 's son named Motasem Kattan awoke to shouts and the clattering of iron doors . Frightened by the tumult , he curled up in a corner of his cell , as guards had instructed him to do . When people opened his door and told him , " Assad 's gone , you 're free ! " he refused to move . If the guards had seen him leave his corner , they would have beaten him severely . <p> Eventually , he was led out , shaking with fear and struggling to walk . A woman and an old man propped him between them and half carried him up the stairs . The woman , who had been searching for a loved one , wept when she saw how terrified Motasem was . His body was emaciated , and he had rashes and open wounds on his legs . She and the old man led Motasem outside the prison walls and onto the edge of a highway . They asked if he knew someone they could call , and he gave them his father 's phone number . Motasem 's father was astonished to get the call . His son had been in prison for fifteen months , and the family assumed that he was dead . <p> A week later , I visited Motasem at his family 's home , a cinder-block structure on a dusty street in the suburb of Douma . He was still in disbelief , his eyes unnaturally wide and unblinking . His mother gave me a message in improvised sign language : she nodded to him , touched her heart , and then held out two fingers . She had another son who was dead and a brother who was still missing . <p> Kattan 's family listens as he recounts his detention . <p> Despite Motasem 's ordeal , he brought me back to the Palestine Branch . He wanted to walk its hallways again and , much as Mazen al-Hamada had , reveal the places where he had been brutalized . For an hour , he re ? nacted the process that had followed his arrest . There was the room where his name was written in a ledger , and the spot where he was forced to strip to his underpants and stand with his face against a dirty wall . There was the place where he was fingerprinted and given a number to replace his name . There was the cell in which he was held : a windowless , gray-painted room about twenty feet by fifty feet , with nothing in it but a tiny toilet cubicle in one corner . A hundred and forty other men were kept inside . <p> The prisoners were packed so tightly that they were forced to sit hunched up during the day and to sleep pressed together at night . They were given small amounts of water and bread , occasionally supplemented by a bit of bean soup or bones from chickens that the guards had eaten . The guards prohibited them from speaking . A camera was placed above the door , like a glass eye , and if an infraction was detected the prisoner was taken away for punishment -- handcuffed and beaten , as Mazen had been , or forced into a rubber tire and lashed with a leather belt or a plastic hose . Motasem smiled to show that he was missing one of his front teeth . He said that he had lost it early , when one of his tormentors punched him in the mouth . <p> Motasem traversed the prison , reliving his debasement , even throwing himself on the filthy floor . Gesturing at the hole in the cell floor where the men had defecated , he explained that , because the prisoners could not speak , they had to ask to relieve themselves by writing on the wall , with pencils improvised from tinfoil . A designated cell leader approved who went and for how long . The same system applied to bathing : every three weeks , they were permitted a few minutes to clean themselves in the toilet cubicle , with a half litre of water . Once , he recalled , two inmates had begged for more drinking water , and the guards told them to drink from the latrine . The men had spent the next few days dying of cholera ; Motasem held one of them in his arms as he died . <p> Upstairs , in the prison 's administrative area , Motasem pointed out where he was compelled to sign confessions prepared for him -- admitting that he had been a member of an armed rebel group , that he was a traitor , and that he had killed a government official . He was then taken into an office where a gray-haired officer politely read out the crimes that he had confessed to . When he came to the admission of killing an official , Motasem gently protested , saying he had not done that . The officer closed his file and said that he would be punished for lying . He called a guard , who took Motasem away to solitary confinement . On the way , a prisoner who acted as an orderly told him that people sent to that cell never got out . At that point , Motasem said , he gave up , and from then until his release he was only awaiting death . <p> Motasem 's father , who had come with us and stood watching throughout the tour , spoke for the first time . " I did n't know , " he said softly , tears streaming down his face . <p> When I visited the Mezzeh prison , where Mazen was held twice , the guards posted by Assad 's regime had been replaced by a handful of rebels . They lounged in chairs near the entrance gate , basking in the winter sun . Around them , the ground was strewn with the detritus of the old regime : uniforms , bullet casings , boots , defaced Assad posters . On an airstrip , the hangars stood empty , but some still contained crates of live Russian munitions . Outside were the charred wrecks of helicopters that Israel , in its ongoing campaign to destroy Syria 's military capability , had blasted in the past few days . Tanks and armored personnel carriers were parked haphazardly where fleeing soldiers had deserted them . Stray cats followed us around , mewling from hunger . <p> The interior of the prison was like others I 'd seen : rows of windowless cells , some with Quranic verses dabbed carefully on the walls with green soap . Outside the cellblocks were the guards ' rooms , full of broken chairs , yellowing computers , and empty cigarette packs . A rebel with his face hidden by a balaclava showed me a gold-painted bust of Assad , which he kicked across the room , cursing viciously . In a cellblock for female detainees , he pointed out bras and women 's clothing and some children 's toys . " They even kept children here , " he said in disgust . A shelf in a hallway held boxes of medicine . He picked one up and shoved it in front of my face . It was used to provide forced abortions , he said ; the guards had habitually raped women who were held there . " They were pigs , " he spat . <p> The guards seemed to have made no effort to hide their abuses . In Mezzeh and the other prisons I visited , there were troves of documents , fastidiously cataloguing the workings of the penal system . Papers with official seals were strewn around floors and left on desks . Some contained records of surveillance operations and transcripts of interrogations . Others bore the names of prisoners , the orders for their arrest , and the crimes that they were accused of committing . In the Palestine Branch , I came across a huge pile of photographs taken of prisoners after interrogation . For many , it was likely the last image of them before they died . <p> Hamada 's relatives walk through Tishreen Park , on one of their first excursions in a liberated Damascus . <p> In mid-January , the Hamadas helped circulate a petition calling to protect the evidence that remains at the detention centers . " Their walls are like notebooks and witnesses , telling the stories of the suffering of our sons and daughters , " they wrote . There is some precedent for a war-crimes inquiry . In 2019 , two former Syrian military officers who had worked at Al-Khatib were arrested in Germany and tried for murdering dozens of detainees . One was sentenced to life in prison for crimes against humanity ; the other received a shorter sentence for complicity . <p> Stephen Rapp , the former Ambassador-at-Large for War Crimes Issues , travelled to Damascus after Assad fled . He toured mass graves that he had previously seen only in satellite photos and visited prisons where the abuses he helped reveal were committed . He also met with members of the new government , who just days before had been Islamist rebels . Rapp told me the officials had assured him that prosecuting members of the old regime was a top priority . " They emphasized to me their intention in setting up courts to seek justice for their victims , including Mazen , and that their trials would be a mix of Islamic Sharia and international law , " he said . <p> Syria 's new leader , Ahmed al-Sharaa , maintains that he wants to create an electoral democracy , one that respects all the country 's sects and ethnic groups . But many observers are concerned that Sharaa -- a former member of the Islamic State and Al Qaeda -- is merely trying to cultivate support from the West before asserting a more radical agenda , as the Taliban did after the U.S. evacuated Afghanistan . A senior diplomat who is active in the region told me that he worries Sharaa will be unable to " control his base . " He spoke of reports of revenge killings around the country , particularly against the Alawite community . <p> Still , Mazen 's supporters hope that his death will help bring about democracy . " The blood of my family and that shed by other Syrians has paid the price for our freedom , " Fawzi told me . <p> A few days after I visited the Hamadas ' home , they met me in Tishreen Park , a landscaped hillside of trees and lawns that merge into the foothills of the mountains around Damascus . On the nearest summit was Assad 's former palace , a hard-lined modernist block . <p> The Hamadas were bundled up against the cold , and looked wary . We strolled for a few minutes and then found a bench to sit on . A couple of men who had set up a brazier sold us paper cups of steaming tea . <p> With a wan smile , Fawzi told me that he had not been to Tishreen Park since before the war . This was the third time he had left Jaramana in thirteen years . The previous two had been to identify his brother 's body and to bury him , so this was the first excursion that did not have to do with death . <p> Majida spoke up to describe her daughters ' accomplishments . The younger one was living in Germany , where she worked as a dentist and helped women in a public health clinic . The elder daughter was in Beirut , studying for a master 's degree in democracy and international law . Soon , Majida said , she would leave Syria to visit them both . <p> As we spoke , Jad said he wanted me to know that his full name was Jad Fawzi al-Hamada , and that he was proud of his father . Fawzi had remained in Syria throughout the war , despite the dangers . " He decided to stay as long as revolutionary change was needed , " Jad said , noting that his father 's political party had offered to get him out of the country a year into the war but that he had declined . Fawzi added something , and Jad translated : " We will have freedom in Syria , or we will die here . " <p> I asked Fawzi what he wanted to do with his newly restored freedom . " We will not be free until we have held Assad and his people to account for what they have done , " he said . " After that , I will leave politics and all this hard stuff and have a free man 's life , without headaches , " he laughed . He quoted the Palestinian poet Mahmoud Darwish : " We love life whenever we can . " <p> Majida said it was also important that , in the new Syria , girls and women be raised as " free persons , with a full knowledge of what democracy means . " She grew expansive and said , " We miss the old times when the family would sing , with Jad playing the oud and the girls singing . " Glancing fondly at his wife , Fawzi said , " Majida used to sing , too , and has a beautiful voice , especially when she sang the songs of Fairuz . " Majida protested , " I have n't sung for a long time . But maybe I will again . " <p> The sun sank over Assad 's palace , and the evening chill began to reach us . Eventually , we stood to leave . As we walked , Majida looked past the edge of the park into the city , with its patchwork of dreadful wounds and small signs of recovery . She smiled a bit and said , " Today is the first time in years I have felt that our country is beautiful . " ? <p> Published in the print edition of the February 3 , 2025 , issue , with the headline " The Witness . " <p> The billionaire Frank McCourt is launching a " people 's bid " to buy the app , replace its addictive algorithm , and give users greater control of their data . Is it a publicity stunt or a sincere attempt to reform the digital age ?
