Text ID: t032629
Group:   global_south_2024_12
File:    corpus/04_now_screened_iqr/global_south_2024_12/in/118357058.txt

Score (f7_neg): -4
Loading words (f7_neg), N=4: soccer, parent, condolence, alive
<p> Captain Omer Maxim Neutra , a 21-year-old Israeli soldier , was confirmed dead after being taken hostage by Hamas during their attack on October 7 , 2023 . Neutra , a tank platoon commander from New York , served in the IDF . Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu assured efforts to return the bodies of all hostages , including Neutra 's , for proper burial . <p> Omer Maxim Neutra ( Picture credit : The Times of Israel ) <p> The Israeli military confirmed Monday that captain Omer Maxim Neutra , 21 , was killed during the October 7 , 2023 , Hamas attack . His body is being held hostage in the Gaza Strip.Neutra 's death has been confirmed 14 months after the Hamas attack . The military 's rabbinate declared his death based on new intelligence . It was previously believed that Neutra was alive and held hostage.Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu offered condolences to Neutra 's family and promised to return his body to Israel . " Omer was a man of values , blessed with talents and a Zionist in every sense of the word , " said Netanyahu . " He immigrated to Israel to enlist in the IDF , chose a combat path and was chosen to command and lead . " <p> Netanyahu added , " Israel will not rest or be silent until we return him home for a Jewish burial , and we will continue to act resolutely and tirelessly until we return all of our hostages . " <p> Who was Neutra ? Omer Maxim Neutra , a " lone soldier " from New York , US , served as a tank platoon commander , according to the Israel-based news outlet The Times of Israel . His parents were not in Israel . He commanded a tank platoon in the 7th Armored Brigade 's 77th Battalion . His tank crew included <p> Sgt Shaked Dahan as the driver , Sgt Nimrod Cohen as the gunner , and Sgt Oz Daniel as the loader.From basketball team captain to Israeli armyNeutra was a Knicks fan while growing up in Long Island , New York , and served as captain of his high school basketball team , as well as the volleyball and soccer teams when needed.Neutra postponed his plans to attend Binghamton University to join the Israeli army after spending a gap year in Israel in 2020 . His parents , Ronen and Orna Neutra , last contacted him on October 6 . After learning of the October 7 attacks , Ronen Neutra repeatedly attempted to reach his son . Eventually , the family learned of his capture . <p> " They said that he 's been taken captive , " said Orna Neutra , as quoted by The Times of Israel . " So many have died that it 's just insane to feel relief thinking that your son is not dead , you know ? " Ronen Neutra previously told CBS News that his son was interested in peace-building and planned to return to Long Island to attend college . " That 's just the kind of person he is , " said Ronen Neutra . <p> How was Neutra killed ? On the morning of October 7 , 2023 , Neutra and three other crew members were stationed in a tank near the Gaza border , by the southern community of Nahal Oz , according to The Times of Israel . They came under RPG and explosive attack during Hamas 's assault . The attack resulted in their abduction to Gaza , as widely circulated footage captured Hamas terrorists dragging the soldiers out of the smoking tank.Neutra 's tank crew member , driver Sgt Shaked Dahan 's death was confirmed in November 2023 , and loader Sgt Oz Daniel 's in February 2024 . Now , after 14 months , Neutra 's death has also been confirmed . According to the IDF , all three were killed on October 7 , 2023 . Other hostages held by HamasOf the 251 hostages Hamas abducted on October 7 , 2023 , an estimated 97 remain captive in Gaza , including the bodies of at least 35 confirmed dead , according to the Israeli Defense Forces ( IDF ) . Hamas released 105 civilian hostages during a week-long truce in late November 2023 , after the prior release of four other hostages . Israeli troops rescued eight hostages , and the bodies of 37 hostages have been recovered , three of whom died accidentally during escape attempts , according to a report by The Times of Israel.In addition to the October 7 hostages , Hamas also holds the remains of two IDF soldiers killed in 2014 and two Israeli civilians who entered Gaza separately in 2014 and 2015 , said the report . These civilians are believed to be alive . <h> About the Author <p> At TOI World Desk , our dedicated team of seasoned journalists and passionate writers tirelessly sifts through the vast tapestry of global events to bring you the latest news and diverse perspectives round the clock . With an unwavering commitment to accuracy , depth , and timeliness , we strive to keep you informed about the ever-evolving world , delivering a nuanced understanding of international affairs to our readers . Join us on a journey across continents as we unravel the stories that shape our interconnected world .
