Text ID: t032864
Group:   global_south_2024_12
File:    corpus/04_now_screened_iqr/global_south_2024_12/ng/119238704.txt

Score (f7_neg): -5
Loading words (f7_neg), N=5: kibbutz, captivity, kidnap, condolence, holiday
<h> Former Israeli hostage dies one year after release from Gaza <p> A former Israeli hostage who was held by Hamas died of illness Tuesday , the first to pass away over a year after she was released alongside <p> Demonstrators march during an anti-government protest calling for action to secure the release of Israeli hostages held captive since the October 7 attacks by Palestinian militants in the Gaza Strip , outside the Israeli Defence Ministry headquarters in Tel Aviv on December 21 , 2024 , amid the ongoing war between Israel and Hamas . ( Photo by Jack GUEZ / AFP ) <p> A former Israeli hostage who was held by Hamas died of illness Tuesday , the first to pass away over a year after she was released alongside dozens of others in a hostage exchange deal . <p> A statement from her Nir Oz kibbutz announced the passing of Hanna Katzir , who was taken hostage with her son , Elad , during the October 7 , 2023 attack on Israel by the Palestinian militant group Hamas . <p> An Israeli government official meanwhile said she had been recognised as a victim of the Hamas attack . <p> " Hanna Katzir , 76 , kidnapped from her home in Nir Oz during the massacre on October 7th and released during the ceasefire on November 24 , 2023 , died on December 24 , 2024 , after a complex medical situation since her release . She has been recognised as a victim of terrorism , " the official said in a statement . <p> Katzir 's husband , Rami , was killed in their home on that day . The body of Elad , 47 , who later died in captivity , was brought back to Israel in April and buried in Nir Oz . Katzir was also buried on the kibbutz on Tuesday afternoon . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu sent condolences to the Katzir family , writing in a statement that he would " work tirelessly to bring all of our hostages home " . <p> The October 7 attack on Israel resulted in 1,208 deaths , mostly civilians , according to an AFP tally of Israeli official figures . <p> Militants seized 251 hostages during the attack , some of whom were already dead . Of those , 96 are still held in Gaza , including 34 the army says are dead . <p> Israel 's retaliatory campaign has killed over 45,300 people in Gaza , according to figures from the territory 's health ministry that the UN considers reliable . <p> The Abia Government said on Tuesday that 53 transformers of different specifications will be distributed to selected communities as part of its power sector recovery programme . Speaking to newsmen during the commencement of the exercise in Umuahia , the Commissioner for Power and Public Utilities , Mr Ikechukwu Monday , described the delivery of the transformers as a ... <p> Gov . Mai Mala Buni of Yobe has approved the employment of 424 health professionals to bolster medical facilities across the state . Alhaji Mamman Mohammed , Buni 's Director-General Press and Media Affairs , disclosed this in a statement issued to newsmen in Damaturu on Tuesday . He said 205 of the employed workers were Nurses and Midwives , who graduated ... <p> The Governor of Oyo State , Seyi Makinde , has approved the appointment of 160 new Supervisory Councilors and Special Assistants across all the 33 local governments in the state . This was announced on Tuesday by the state Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters , Ademola Ojo , in Ibadan , the state capital . According to Ojo , the list , ... <p> Gov . Hyacinth Alia has declared a two-week holiday for civil servants in the state to celebrate Christmas and New Year . Alia made the declaration on Tuesday in Makurdi in his Christmas message to Benue people . The governor said that the holiday commenced on December 24 and ends on January 6 , 2025 . He said the essence ... <p> Few hours before Christmas , human and vehicular traffic have increased on both inter-state and intra-city roads in Osun , Ondo and Ekiti states , leading to gridlocks . The News Agency of Nigeria ( NAN ) reports that the three adjoining states have road networks , which many commuters and motorists from Abuja , Jos and other northern states ply to get ... <p> In spite of high transport fares , Lagos residents have continued to travel for Christmas and New Year celebrations . A News Agency of Nigeria ( NAN ) correspondent , who monitored activities at some motor parks in Lagos on Tuesday , reports that commuters queued to get tickets for their travels . The motor parks visited include the popular Maza Maza ... <p> The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps ( NSCDC ) , Ogun Command , has deployed 2,750 defenders to maintain security during Christmas . Mrs Remilekun Ekundayo , the Commandant of the NSCDC , confirmed this to the News Agency of Nigeria ( NAN ) on Tuesday in Abeokuta . Ekundayo said the corps would be on a -24 hour patrol . She said the corps ... <p> The Niger Delta Development Commission ( NDDC ) has commenced the rehabilitation of the failed sections of the Port Harcourt-Owerri link road . The NDDC Managing Director , Dr Samuel Ogbuku , announced this development on Tuesday during an inspection of ongoing repair works at the Umuapu and Umuagwo sections of the road . He explained that the commission undertook the ... <p> An Abuja High Court has given an order of interim injunction restraining the Minister of Federal Capital Territory ( FCT ) , Nyesom Wike , and others from selling landed property . The property is located at Plot No. 4411 , Cadastral Zone A09 , Guzape District , Abuja . Justice Mohammed Zubairu made the order following an ex-parte motion moved by counsel to ... <p> The Lagos State Water Regulatory Commission ( LASWARCO ) has sealed three companies for extracting large quantities of groundwater for commercial purposes without proper authorisation and compliance with regulations . The News Agency of Nigeria ( NAN ) reports that the three companies are Nigerian Bottling Company , producers of Coca-Cola , FrieslandCampina , makers of Peak Milk and Guinness Nigeria Plc . Mr ...
