Text ID: t016452
Group:   global_north_2024_12
File:    corpus/04_now_screened_iqr/global_north_2024_12/us/119026215.txt

Score (f7_neg): -9
Loading words (f7_neg), N=9: balloon, birthday, music, kibbutz, hate, captivity, alive, crowd, teenager
<p> The family of Matan Zangauker marked his 25th birthday on Wednesday , his second in Hamas captivity in the Gaza Strip . <p> Hundreds gathered at the Begin Gate in Tel Aviv 's Kirya military headquarters , blocking traffic and demanding the release of hostages abducted on October 7 . Protesters chanted the captives ' names and held signs reading , " Enough with the abandonment , " " We are all Einav , " and " Matan , your mother is here , and so are we until you return . " <p> Einav Zangauker , Matan 's mother , made a heartfelt plea : " Let 's make one wish -- that Matan Zangauker will be the last hostage to mark a birthday in captivity . We wo n't leave anyone behind . " The protest concluded with yellow balloons released into the sky in honor of Matan 's birthday . <p> Ilana Gritzwoski , a former hostage and Zangauker 's girlfriend , addressed Matan directly : " My beautiful curls , today you are 25 . This is the second year you are far from me . Our room is empty , the hug is absent , and the life we built together is hanging by a thread . There 's no celebration , no cake , no candles to blow out together . " She also denounced government inaction : " The government betrayed us . It abandoned us on October 7 and continues to abandon us today . But we , the people , will bring you back alive . I love you always . " <p> Natali Zangauker , Matan 's sister , broke into tears as she described her brother 's absence : " My big brother is being held captive in Gaza . Now it 's my turn to do everything I can to keep him safe , to bring him back to us . A little sister should n't have to fight for her brother 's life . Matan , you do n't deserve to be there for so long . I love you and miss visiting you in Nir Oz and spending weekends with you . " Demonstrators protest and clash with police during a protest Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu outside the Prime Minister 's official residence in Jerusalem , December 14 , 2024. ( credit : Chaim Goldberg/Flash90 ) <p> " I miss cooking for you , your music , and even how you hated taking pictures with me . I want everything back . I want you back . " Struggling to continue , Natali was embraced by her mother , Einav , as the crowd chanted , " You are not alone -- we are with you . " Composing herself , she added : " The prime minister I admired during the elections betrayed us . How can we be abandoned for so long and incited against ? Matan , I promise we will bring you back . " <p> Speaking to the crowd , Yifat Kalderon , cousin of hostage Ofer Kalderon , said : " We never imagined we would have to fight for what should be obvious . There is only one person who does n't want to bring them home . He constantly prioritizes his coalition over our loved ones . I whispered in Einav 's ear when I brought her a cake that Ofir and Matan would still eat from it when they returned . This wo n't help anyone . " <h> Matan 's sign of life <p> Matan Zangauker was abducted during Hamas 's October 7 attack on Kibbutz Nir Oz , along with Gritzwoski , who was released in the first hostage exchange deal . A video released by Hamas last week provided the first proof of life since July . In the video , Matan addressed his mother : " Mom , I watch you , and I hear about you a lot . I understand the things you are doing . I am very glad to hear you are okay . I hope to see you again soon , that we will meet soon . I hope to sit with you again at the table , eat with you , talk with you , and drink with you . " <p> In solidarity , students from 200 schools walked out of their classes across Israel , demanding an immediate hostage deal . At a demonstration in Kfar Hayarok , Einav Zangauker reiterated her wish : " Let 's hope Matan is the last hostage to celebrate a birthday in captivity . " She thanked the teenagers for their support : " You are amazing people who strengthen us , the families , everywhere . Thank you for who you are for us . We will not stop fighting for any hostage . "
