<h> Protesters raise Nazi , terrorist salutes at London protest march <h> The Metropolitan Police appealed to the public for their aid in the identification of a man who raised a Nazi salute . <p> A pro-Palestinian demonstration passes in front of one held by supporters of Israel in London , Britain November 30 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/YANN TESSIER ) <p> Anti-Israel protesters raised Nazi and terrorist salutes at a Pro-Palestinian march and Pro-Israel counter-protest in London , according to statements by Stop The Hate UK and the Metropolitan Police . <p> The Met appealed to the public on Sunday for their aid in the identification of an elderly man " in connection with an alleged public order offense , " confirming to STH on social media that the investigation was related to a video of the suspect raising his arm in a Nazi salute in the direction of counter-protesters . <p> STH on Sunday published footage on X/Twitter of another anti-Israel marcher who appeared to shout " Heil Hitler " and raise a Nazi salute and then a middle finger in the direction of pro-Israel counter-protesters . <p> " When we tell you these are hate marches , when we tell you that British Jews are frightened to enter central London when they come to town -- this is why , " STH wrote on social media on Saturday . " A Nazi salute in full view of officers and directed at Jews . How many more instances like this do Jewish Londoners have to endure before you do something to stop these hate marches ? " <p> Hi @metpoliceuk we posted the footage of this man giving a Nazi salute at yesterday 's hate march . Thank you for launching this appeal.We just thought you might like this footage too - it 's of another man doing a Nazi salute at Jews at the same hate march.So , that 's two Nazi ... https : **39;2241;TOOLONG ... The Met issues warnings <p> STH also condemned the presence of red inverted triangles in protest materials and the hand gesture counterparts raised by activists . The NGO charged that the Met understood the meaning of the inverted red triangle , a terrorist symbol used in Hamas propaganda videos to indicate the targeting of their enemies , but had ignored their use at the protest . <p> Ahead of the protest , the Met had issued warnings that it was a criminal offense to express support for proscribed organizations like Hamas and Hezbollah through chanting , garb , flags , signs , or logos . <p> The Met had also issued conditions for the protest and counter-protest , limiting them to set routes and locations so that they would not impact the busy Black Friday shopping period or enter into conflict . The Met said on social media that the Palestine Solidarity Campaign march had passed the STH protest without incident . <p> " Ahead of the weekend , we have been in regular discussions with the PSC , counter-protesters Stop the Hate , as well as faith and community groups -- particularly the Jewish community who we know continue to be impacted by protests -- residents , and businesses , " Deputy Assistant Commissioner Jon <p> The PSC said on Instagram that tens of thousands had participated in the national demonstration aimed at ending what they see as complicity by the British government , businesses , and institutions with a supposed genocide in Gaza . <p> Trade unionist Andrew Murray spoke to attendees , according to co-organizer Stop the War Coalition , calling for Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to be held responsible for the deaths of Gazan civilians . <p> " Whether it is tomorrow , next week , next year , or ten years ' time , Netanyahu and his gang of criminals will be held to account for this slaughter ! " said Murray .
