<p> Neutra 's body was taken into Gaza , where it is still being held by Hamas . <h> Neutra 's family " deeply grieving and devastated " <p> Neutra , who grew up in Plainview , New York , deferred enrollment at SUNY Binghamton to join the IDF after attending a Jewish high school . His parents spoke out at a hostage remembrance and protest in Central Park just hours before his death was announced . <p> " We need to finish this war and bring cease-fire and get the hostages back , " his father Ronen Neutra said . <p> " The Neutra family is deeply grieving and devastated with the news . They are currently requesting the public who has been very supportive throughout this journey to please respect their privacy until they are formally ready to announce the next steps , " a family spokesperson said Monday . <p> Neutra " was serving as a tank commander in an Israel Defense Forces unit that was among the first to respond to Hamas 's campaign of cruelty -- risking his life to save the lives of others . A Long Island native , Omer planned to return to the United States for college . He dreamed of dedicating himself to building peace , " President Joe Biden said in a statement . <h> New York leaders react to Omer Neutra 's death <p> Town of Oyster Bay Supervisor Joseph Saladino said Monday flags would be flown at half-staff in Neutra 's honor . <p> " It is with deep sadness that we learn of the tragic loss of Omer Neutra , a beloved son of the Town of Oyster Bay and IDF soldier , who was killed by Hamas terrorists . This heartbreaking news is a profound reminder of the immense sacrifices made by individuals who stand in service to protect and defend democracy around the world , " Saladino 's statement read in part . " Our thoughts and prayers are with Omer 's family , friends , and all who loved him . This is a time of unbearable grief and a tragic loss for our entire town . " <p> New York Gov . Kathy Hochul ordered flags to half-staff statewide and said , " We pray that his body can be returned to his family , who have been speaking out for him &amp; all hostages since that horrific day . " <p> " For months we 've prayed for the safe return of Omer Neutra and all those kidnapped by Hamas on October 7th . This horrific news shakes all New Yorkers to our core , " Hochul said in a statement . " I 've met with Omer 's brave family and learned so much about this incredible young man . As we mourn this tragedy , let us continue to pray for the safe return of the remaining hostages , an end to the war without Hamas in power , and a lasting peace . " <p> The Wall of Hope in Plainview , New York displays pictures of hostages taken by Hamas , including Omer Neutra , who grew up in the community . CBS News New York <p> " On October 7th , he fiercely defended the communities near the Gaza border when Hamas terrorists attacked . For over a year , his parents lived in hope that their son was still alive . But today , their worst fears were confirmed . My heart breaks for them and their entire family as they face this unbearable loss . But I am also filled with pride in the life that Omer lived . His heroism and sacrifice will never be forgotten , and I will not rest until his body is returned home . May his memory be a blessing , " Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand 's statement said . <h> The wall of hope <p> After Neutra 's presumptive capture , the Mid-Island Y JCC in his hometown held weekly events and prayed that he and the 101 hostages would come home alive . <p> " We all woke up to the devastating news of the loss of Omer , that we 've kept in our hearts and prayers for so long now . I think it 's hit everybody the same . I burst out into tears when I saw it . I take a deep breath now to keep the tears . We all feel like we lost a son , a brother , a friend even if we did n't know him personally . He became the face of what 's going on in Israel , " said Mid-Island Y JCC CEO Rick Lewis . <p> The community 's wall of hope has been up for 422 days . It displays pictures of hostages they hoped would be seen alive again . <p> Gary Cellers , who updates the wall , prayed he would never have to add deceased stickers to the picture of Neutra . <p> " My heart aches for the Neutra family . My heart aches for all the hostage families , " said Cellers , facilities director at the Mid-Island Y JCC .
