<p> Omer Neutra played basketball , soccer and volleyball . He made a " delicious " hummus . He and his brother , Daniel , would battle in video games like NBA2K and board games like Settlers of Catan . He could be quite serious -- and absurdly " goofy . " <p> He was a son , brother and friend , who grew up in Plainview . <p> But in the last 14 months , Omer became much more . His is the face and name so many on Long Island now associate with the tragic events of Oct. 7 , 2023 , the day when Hamas terrorists attacked Israel , killing more than 1,200 people and taking more than 200 hostage . <p> For 423 days , Omer 's family and friends clung to the belief he was among those held in Gaza , that he was alive , that he would come home soon . It was Omer 's smile we saw on posters plastered on store windows and telephone poles . It was his parents , Orna and Ronen , who traveled the world to talk about their son , to relentlessly beg those in power to bring him -- and the other hostages -- home . It was for Omer , and so many others , that people across Long Island and beyond rallied and prayed . <p> Sunday night , Orna and Ronen learned their son was killed in the Oct. 7 attacks and his body brought into Gaza , where it remains . After more than a year of hoping and pleading , of waiting for a sign Omer was alive , we all learned no such sign would come . <p> Sign up for The Point Newsletter <p> From our Editorial Board , get inside the local , city and state political scenes . <p> While at the Republican National Convention in Milwaukee this summer , I had the chance to hear from Orna and Ronen as they desperately tried to convey their message to anyone who would listen . I saw them cling to hope , as fear hung overhead . " Time is running out , " Ronen said . <p> Omer was killed at age 21 , just a week before his birthday . He initially went to Israel for a gap year before college , deferring his acceptance to SUNY Binghamton . Then , he stayed , enlisting in the Israeli Defense Forces , wanting to help the land he loved . There , he commanded a tank near Gaza , defending his country against Hamas ' invasion . There , Hamas killed him . <p> Traditionally , Jewish families mourn and bury their loved ones as quickly as possible . Omer 's parents had to wait 14 long months -- and a burial still is n't possible . Yet , family , friends and hundreds who came to know Omer only after he was gone gathered at Syosset 's Midway Jewish Center Tuesday to pray and remember . <p> The tragedy of losing someone so young in all and any circumstances always hits hard . <p> " No 23-year-old should ever have to stand in front of you and eulogize his childhood friend , " one friend said from the synagogue 's podium . <p> While his name is now known across the world , while his face has become a symbol of terror and loss , Omer was also like any other 21-year-old young man , with his whole life ahead of him . Friends recalled Omer 's smile , his laugh , his good nature , his desire to win at any game or sport . A classmate remembered an " outlandish " banana costume he wore in fifth grade . Omer 's brother , Daniel , recalled their " bro talk , " when the two would chat " about everything " after their parents had gone to sleep . HIs mother told of how small she felt in her 6 " 2 ' son 's " powerful hugs . " <p> Yet , each also noted how Omer , even now , can serve a larger purpose , as an inspiration , a symbol of hope and courage , a story that has , as Daniel said , " uplifted the story of our people . "
