<h> On January 15 , Hamas announced in a video that Itai Svirsky , 38 , had been killed in an IDF airstrike . <p> The body of Itai Svirsky , who was taken hostage on October 7 from Kibbutz Be'eri , was recovered by the IDF in a joint operation with the Shin Bet ( Israel Security Agency ) , the military announced on Wednesday . There are 100 hostages who remain in Hamas captivity in the Gaza Strip , 14 months after they were kidnapped . <p> " Itai , a member of Kibbutz Be'eri , was kidnapped by Hamas on October 7 , 2023 . He was tragically killed in captivity , and his body was held in Gaza , " said the statement . " As part of the operation , the Kidnapped and Missing Persons team in the IDF Human Resources Division , responsible for supporting the families of the kidnapped , worked closely with the Institute for Forensic Medicine and the Israel Police to identify his remains , " it continued . <p> The Hostages and Missing Families Forum said , " Returning Itai 's body for proper burial in Israel provides crucial closure for his family . However , families are still waiting for their loved ones after 425 days in captivity . Many hostages remain alive but in grave danger , requiring immediate release for urgent medical care and rehabilitation . The others must be returned for a dignified burial . The time has come to bring all 100 hostages home . " The agency and military informed the Svirsky family of the developments on Wednesday and extended " their deepest condolences to the family " and will " continue to work tirelessly to bring all the kidnapped home . " <h> Svirsky 's death <p> On January 15 , Hamas announced in a video that Itai Svirsky , 38 , had been killed in an IDF airstrike . He was held hostage with Yossi Sharabi , who was killed in captivity , and Noa Argamani , who was rescued in June.In a video released at the time by Hamas , Argamani announced their deaths . " I was located in a building , " Argamani said in the Hamas video . " It was bombed by an IDF airstrike , an F16 fighter jet . <p> Three rockets were fired . Two of the rockets exploded , and the other did not . We were in the building with Al-Qassam soldiers and three hostages : me - Noa Argamani - Itai Svirsky , and Yosef Sharabi . <p> " After the building we were in was hit , we were all buried under rubble . Al-Qassam soldiers saved my life and Itai 's . Unfortunately , we were not able to save Yossi 's . " After many days ... two nights , Itai and I were relocated to another place . While we were being transported , Itai was hit by an IDF airstrike . He did not survive . " <p> Argamani commemorated Svirsky in a post to Instagram on Wednesday , soon after the news broke : " Dear Itai , during our shared stay in captivity , we imagined thousands of situations together , how we would return to Israel together , how we would meet for coffee after everything was over and laugh about it all . We never thought for a moment that you would return to Israel like this , as a corpse . " Thank you for every moment of our shared time together . You were my friend ; you were my big brother in this dark place . You taught me so many things that I will take with me no matter where I go . Now , you will receive a proper burial in Israel . Rest in peace , " Argamani wrote.The IDF 's position is that Svirsky was shot and murdered by Hamas in captivity . He was kidnapped from Kibbutz Be'eri on October 7 during Hamas 's rampage through the southern Israeli community . At the time , the 38-year-old had been staying with his mother , Orit , 70 . <p> He and his mother had been hiding under blankets in the safe room when the terrorists stormed in and sprayed the room with bullets , killing Orit.Itai 's father , Rafi , 71 , was also murdered , along with his three golden retrievers.
