<h> " The president believes that the hostages must be released immediately and that there must be no further delay , " Boulos told Le Point . <p> US President-elect Donald Trump with Massad Boulos during a campaign stop in Dearborn , Michigan , US , on November 1 ( photo credit : REUTERS/BRIAN SNYDER ) <p> The first priority for the Trump administration will be the immediate release of the hostages with no further delay , President-elect Donald Trump 's newly-appointed Middle East adviser , Massad Boulos , told French paper Le Point in an exclusive interview . <p> Boulos added that while the release of the hostages should be separate from issues relating to the future of Gaza , a hostage deal should come within the framework of a temporary ceasefire . " The president believes that the hostages must be released immediately and that there must be no further delay , " he told Le Point . " According to him , their fate should not be linked to other issues related to the day after in Gaza . <p> Several countries are currently helping to achieve this goal , whether it is Egypt , Jordan , Qatar , or even Turkey . " However , Boulos stressed that Turkey should not replace Qatar 's role as mediator but that it did have influence over Hamas 's decision-making , given it now houses the terror group 's key officials . <p> PRIME MINISTER Benjamin Netanyahu and Donald Trump , during his first term as US president , arrive to deliver joint remarks on the ' Deal of the Century ' proposal , at the White House in 2020. ( credit : JOSHUA ROBERTS/REUTERS ) <p> When asked whether the incoming administration might support Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich 's plan to annex the West Bank , Boulos said that Trump has yet to publicly address this issue , and the administration has not yet implemented a policy . <p> However , Boulos did say that " starting January 20th , there will be a very clear and very specific policy on this subject , which must be respected . " Boulos agreed that discussions around a " roadmap leading to a Palestinian state " would be a key part of discussions between the US and Israel . He referenced Trump 's 2020 plan , which spoke of a proposed Palestinian state , the details of which " were rejected by both sides . " Boulos continued that the president-elect 's priority is " to resume discussions on the Abraham Accords , with , of course , Saudi Arabia first . Because we know very well , and the president has said so , that once we reach an agreement with Saudi Arabia on Israel , there will be at least twelve Arab countries that will be immediately ready to follow suit . " <h> Plans for Iran <p> He added that the Saudi parties were not demanding the establishment of a Palestinian state as part of a deal.Speaking on Iran , Boulos said that Trump was adamant on preventing the regime from having a nuclear program.He stressed that Trump would put " maximum pressure " on Iran again and added that he felt Iran had changed tact since the former president was reelected.However , Boulos said that Trump was mainly focused on the nuclear deal and not the regime itself , which he was prepared to negotiate with . <p> " Nevertheless , there are three very important points for him : Iran must absolutely not have nuclear power ; Iran 's ballistic missiles pose a risk not only to Israel but also to the Gulf countries ; and finally , the problem posed by Iranian proxies in the region , whether in Gaza , Lebanon , Iraq , or Yemen . Apart from these three axes , Trump did not talk about regime change . " Boulos , a Lebanese-American businessman , was recently appointed by Trump as his Middle East adviser . He is the father of Michael Boulos , who is married to Trump 's daughter , Tiffany.Speaking on his appointment , Boulos told Le Point that " it was a great honor " and a " great responsibility . " " The vision is to achieve lasting peace in the Middle East . We have four years to work , and we hope to achieve something that will be sustainable for the future and generations to come , " he added .
