<p> CAIRO ( AP ) -- Palestinian officials say Fatah and Hamas are closing in on an agreement to appoint a committee of politically independent technocrats to administer the Gaza Strip after the war . It would effectively end Hamas ' rule and could help advance ceasefire talks with Israel . <p> The rival factions have made several failed attempts to reconcile since Hamas seized power in Gaza in 2007 . Israel has meanwhile ruled out any postwar role in Gaza for either Hamas or Fatah , which dominates the Western-backed Palestinian Authority . <p> Hamas has been designated as a terrorist organization by the United States , Canada and the European Union . <p> A Palestinian Authority official on Tuesday confirmed that a preliminary agreement had been reached following weeks of negotiations in Cairo . The official said the committee would have 12-15 members , most of them from Gaza . <p> It would report to the Palestinian Authority , which is headquartered in the Israeli-occupied West Bank , and work with local and international parties to facilitate humanitarian assistance and reconstruction . <p> A Hamas official said that Hamas and Fatah had agreed on the general terms but were still negotiating over some details and the individuals who would serve on the committee . The official said an agreement would be announced after a meeting of all Palestinian factions in Cairo , without providing a timeline . <p> Both officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to brief media on the talks . There was no immediate comment from Israel . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has vowed to continue the war until Hamas is dismantled and scores of hostages are returned . He says Israel will maintain open-ended security control over Gaza , with civilian affairs administered by local Palestinians unaffiliated with the Palestinian Authority or Hamas . <p> No Palestinians have publicly volunteered for such a role , and Hamas has threatened anyone who cooperates with the Israeli military . <p> The United States has called for a revitalized Palestinian Authority to govern both the West Bank and Gaza ahead of eventual statehood . The Israeli government , which is opposed to Palestinian statehood , is reportedly discussing a postwar plan with the United Arab Emirates , which normalized relations with Israel in 2020 and backs a rival Fatah faction . <p> The Hamas official said the emerging Palestinian agreement would fulfill one of Israel 's war goals by ending Hamas ' rule in Gaza . It 's unclear if Israeli officials would see it that way . <p> The Palestinian Authority , which administers parts of the occupied West Bank , recognizes Israel and cooperates with it on security matters , a policy that is deeply unpopular among Palestinians , many of whom view it as a subcontractor of the occupation . Israel says the authority has not done enough to combat militancy or curb incitement . <p> The committee would assume its responsibilities after a ceasefire agreement with Israel , the Hamas official said . American and Arab mediators have spent nearly a year trying to broker such an agreement , but the negotiations have repeatedly stalled . <p> Hamas ignited the war with its Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack into Israel , in which Palestinian militants killed some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and abducted around 250 . Some 100 hostages remain inside Gaza , at least a third of whom are dead . <p> Israel 's retaliatory offensive has killed over 44,000 Palestinians , mostly women and children , according to local health authorities , who do not say how many of the dead were combatants . The offensive has leveled much of the coastal territory and displaced the vast majority of its 2.3 million residents .
