<p> This story has been updated with comments from Jordan Acker , the university and Regent Sarah Hubbard . <p> HUNTINGTON WOODS , MI - The home of a Jewish member of the University of Michigan Board of Regents was attacked Sunday night , including spray-painted pro-Palestinian messages on his family car . <p> Regent Jordan Acker , also a Southfield-based attorney , confirmed his Huntington Woods home was targeted overnight on Dec. 8 . <p> Someone threw two mason jars filled with urine through one of his home 's windows , as well as spray-painted the slogan " Divest and Free Palestine " on his car , he told MLive/The Ann Arbor News . <p> Acker condemned the attack as anti-Semitic , called the protesters responsible for the vandalism " terrorists " and accused them of targeting him since he is " a public Jew . " <p> " To anyone out there who knows about who did this , and I 'm certain that there are people on our campus who do , you should prevent this from harming your own cause by speaking up about who 's doing this , " Acker said . " This is not helpful to Palestinians . It is simply intended to scare Jews , and it 's disgusting and disgraceful . " <p> Acker said he was home with his wife and children when the jars were thrown through one of his front windows . Huntington Woods Public Safety did not respond to a request for further details . <p> Images from Sunday night 's vandalism were shared by the University of Michigan and can be seen here . <p> " The vandalism of Regent Jordan Acker 's home early this morning is a clear act of antisemitic intimidation , " university officials said in a statement . " The University of Michigan condemns these criminal acts in the strongest possible terms . They are abhorrent and , unfortunately , just the latest in a number of incidents where individuals have been harassed because of their work on behalf of the university . This is unacceptable and will not be tolerated . We call on our community to come together in solidarity and to firmly reject all forms of bigotry and violence . " <p> This is the third time this year Acker was targeted by pro-Palestinian protesters . <p> A masked protester came to Acker 's home around 4:40 a.m. , May 16 to place demands on his door . Other regents ' homes that day saw fake corpses and bloody toys placed on lawns , alluding to the death of tens of thousands of Palestinians in the ongoing war in Gaza . <p> Protesters also spray-painted " UM kills " on the walls of his Goodman Acker Law Firm in June . The homes of university President Santa Ono and chief investment officer Erik Lundberg were also spray-painted at the time . <p> Acker demands that police , as well as progressive liberals on the Ann Arbor campus , take the repeated targeting of his family seriously . <p> " Every person on the progressive side should condemn this behavior , and it speaks volumes that several have not , " he said . <p> Regent Sarah Hubbard called for criminal action to be taken against those responsible for the vandalism . <p> " Vandalism , threats and intimidation of any sort are unacceptable and should be punished to the full extent of the law , " she wrote on X. " I urge law enforcement to pursue suspects in this and other similar cases targeting @umich leadership immediately . " <p> U.S. Rep. Haley Stevens , D-Rochester Hills , said she was " sickened by the anti-Semitic attack " on Acker 's home . <p> " Jordan Acker is a dedicated public servant and he and his family should be safe in their own home , " she wrote on X. " Vandalism , violence , and bigotry have no place in America . Enough . Our Jewish brothers and sisters deserve to live in security and peace . " <p> Protesters have criticized Acker and the other regents since the start of the Israel-Hamas War started last year . Tahrir Coalition , the student organization that seeks the university 's divestment from Israel due to the ongoing war in Gaza , has led numerous protests on campus and took credit for the May vandalism at regents ' homes . <p> The Israel-Hamas war has sparked protests around the world . It began when Hamas-led militants stormed into southern Israel on Oct. 7 , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and abducting around 250 people . Gaza 's Health Ministry says Israel 's offensive has killed more than 44,000 Palestinians in Gaza , according to the Associated Press . <p> If you would like more reporting like this delivered free to your inbox , click here and signup for our weekly newsletter : Michigan Schools . <p> If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site , we may receive compensation . By using this site , you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks , interactions , and personal information may be collected , recorded , and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy .
