<h> Breaking News <p> The photo exhibit " Gaza , Palestine : A Crisis of Humanity , a Cry for Justice " in the lobby of United Nations headquarters in Manhattan includes images of demolished buildings , displaced civilians , maimed children and corpses . It mentions neither Hamas nor the terror group 's Oct. 7 terrorist attacks in southern Israel that launched the war upon which the exhibit focuses . <p> " This was written by the Palestinian mission to the United Nations and in this long , long text , you wo n't find the word ' Hamas ' in it , " Jonathan Harounoff , international spokesman for Israel 's mission to the global body , told JNS . " You wo n't find any mention of the perpetrators of the attacks of Oct. 7 , 2023 . " <p> " It 's very selective in the history it is trying to portray , and the exhibit includes graphic imagery of everything that took place following Oct. 7 , but they never mention what actually happened to lead to all of this , " Harounoff said . <p> The photo exhibit " Gaza , Palestine : A Crisis of Humanity , a Cry for Justice " in the lobby of United Nations headquarters in Manhattan includes images of demolished buildings , displaced civilians , maimed children and corpses . United Nations <p> Harounoff told JNS that the Jewish state is n't engaged in the war " to bring suffering upon the people of Gaza . " <p> " That 's not its objective . Its objective is to prevent terrorist organizations like Hamas from terrorizing its people which it did when it infiltrated Israel on Oct. 7 , " he said . <p> Harounoff pointed to a photograph by Yasser Qudih -- whose presence during the Oct. 7 attacks has raised ethical questions -- which depicts children holding empty bowls , hoping in vain for food , near Rafah . " It did not take long for the food to run out , " a caption states . <p> " Pictures like this in this exhibit , showcasing children who are starving and desperate for food , fail to mention that the reason the photographed children have no food is because Hamas terrorists continually loot aid in Gaza instead of feeding their own people , " Harounoff said . <p> The Israeli spokesman told JNS that other exhibits in the U.N . lobby tend to have highly visible signs with disclaimers stating that the United Nations does not necessarily share the views articulated in the exhibitions . <h> ' Does not paint a full picture ' <p> The Gaza photo exhibit , which is on view until Jan. 10 and is organized by the Palestinian " permanent observer " mission to the global body , has no such sign . <p> " This was written by the Palestinian mission to the United Nations and in this long , long text , you wo n't find the word ' Hamas ' in it , " Jonathan Harounoff said . United Nations <p> Harounoff showed JNS another exhibit in the U.N . lobby about the Palestinian Red Crescent . <p> " The content of this exhibit is solely the responsibility of the sponsor . The holding of the exhibit on the U.N . premises does not imply endorsement or acceptance of its content by the United Nations " the sign states . " The designations employed and the presentation of material on these displays do not imply the expression of any opinion on the part of the secretariat or the United Nations . Please direct any queries to the organizers . " <p> The Gaza exhibit " has only a very small footnote saying the U.N . does n't necessarily share the viewpoints of the exhibit organizer , " Harounoff said . " But when the Israeli mission held an exhibit featuring Israeli mothers speaking about the loss of their children due to the war , we were told that by protocol we had to have a large sign letting the public know this exhibit reflected our mission 's views alone . " <p> That double standard suggests that the United Nations endorses the messaging behind the Gaza exhibit , according to Harounoff . <p> " This exhibit does not paint a full picture here . We do n't see mention of what happened on Oct. 7 , we only see what took place from a very biased angle , " he said . " So the concern is , does having no disclaimer mean that this is an endorsement by the United Nations ? " <p> " If there was a sign here then there would be transparency , where I could infer as a visitor that this is not condoned by the United Nations , " he added . " By not having a sign , you 're creating a sort of opaque system , where anyone passing by can assume that this has been endorsed by or even curated by the United Nations , and that is not necessarily the case . " <p> JNS sought comment from the United Nations . Farhan Haq , deputy spokesman for Ant ? nio Guterres , the U.N . secretary-general , told JNS that there are differences between exhibitions at the United Nations , and some have larger disclaimers while others do not . <p> " Some shows have it one way , some in the other . It depends on the sponsors of the exhibits , " Haq told JNS . <p> Danny Danon , the Israeli ambassador to the United Nations , stated that the Gaza exhibit represents " diplomatic terrorism . " <p> " This week , a one-sided pro-Palestinian exhibition that is detached from reality opened at the main entrance to the U.N. , " he said . " When will the U.N . stop spending millions of dollars on spreading lies and instead pass a moral resolution that condemns Hamas and calls for the release of our hostages ? Disgraceful . " <h> Video <p> The photo exhibit " Gaza , Palestine : A Crisis of Humanity , a Cry for Justice " in the lobby of United Nations headquarters in Manhattan includes images of demolished buildings , displaced civilians , maimed children and corpses . United Nations <p> " This was written by the Palestinian mission to the United Nations and in this long , long text , you wo n't find the word ' Hamas ' in it , " Jonathan Harounoff said . United Nations
