<h> North Gaza Neonatal Intensive Care Unit Hit With Evacuation Order <p> 3 minute read <p> Premature babies evacuated from Kamal Adwan Hospital in Jabalia due to Israeli attacks are receiving care at the Patient Friends Association Hospital , which opened a dedicated section for them in Gaza City , Gaza on Oct. 14 , 2024 . Momen Faiz -- Anadolu/Getty Images <p> Northern Gaza is facing a catastrophic collapse in neonatal care after Israel 's latest evacuation order , according to doctors and aid groups . The order affects an estimated 20 to 25,000 people in the Al-Remal and Sabra neighborhoods , which includes the ? ? Patient 's Friends Benevolent Society Hospital . It has the only neonatal intensive care unit ( NICU ) in northern Gaza that receives premature babies . <p> The evacuation order came from IDF Spokesperson Achivay Adraee 's X account Thursday evening . The post , originally in Arabic , reads : " This is a warning before an attack ! Terrorist organizations are firing rockets again from this area . This specific area has been warned several times in the past . For your safety , move immediately to shelters in Gaza City Center . " <p> " It 's not a game when they throw leaflets or when they announce that there are evacuation orders , " Mahmoud Shalabi , Deputy Director of Programmes at Medical Aid for Palestinians ( MAP ) told TIME from Gaza City . Shalabi and his family have been internally displaced for more than seventy days . <p> " The evacuation order ? is like spreading fire in hay . Everything starts spreading immediately over social media , " Shalabi said . MAP , a private British aid group , has provided assistance with essential staffing and resources to PFBS since August 2024 . Its NICU started operations in October , with incubators salvaged from other hospitals -- including Kamal Adwan Hospital in Beit Lahia to the north . That facility , which the chief of the World Health Organization says still has 96 patients , remains besieged by Israeli forces operating in the area , and CNN reported that a hospital official said four doctors were among dozens killed around the compound on Friday . Shalabi says some of the half-dozen incubators now at PFBS came -- babies included -- from Kamal Adwan . <p> The only other Gaza City hospital with a NICU , Al-Sahaba hospital , operates under limited capacity , and is only able to offer basic ? level one care to infants -- those without complex or intensive medical needs . PFBS also provides gynecology , delivery and general surgery services . Many of the patients can not be moved in their condition . This fall , when the facility began providing life-saving treatment for premature infants in a region where the health care system has been steadily dismantled , patient visits surged , climbing from 7,320 in July to 42,999 by October . <p> All health care professionals in Gaza , including the five doctors and ten nurses working at the NICU , are at personal risk . As of summer 2024 , nearly 500 healthcare workers had been killed in Gaza since the conflict began . On Thursday , Dr. Saeed Jouda , the last orthopedic surgeon in northern Gaza , was killed by an Israeli drone near Kamal Adwan . <p> " Gaza is very tiny . There are n't many options left for the health authorities to decide where we want to move services , " Shalabi says . " ? Much of the space has been taken out and has been reduced to smithereens . So there is no place left for people to go . " <p> The buzz of a drone that Shalabi described as " armed to the teeth " was audible as he spoke to TIME . ? " It has been a constant feature in our lives , you know , drone sounds ... but not as intense as what 's happening during this war , not as intense as it is right now . "
