<p> Around 300 reservists have expressed an interest in moving to frontline communities in the North and South , reservist organization the Israeli Reservists -- Generation of Victory said last week . <p> The organization , founded at the start of the Israel-Hamas War , has launched an initiative to encourage reservists to move to the same communities they defended . <p> This initiative is in cooperation with National Missions Minister Orit Strock and Diaspora Affairs and Combating Antisemitism Minister Amichai Chikli . <p> The organization is organizing groups it anticipates will move to the Gaza border region , the Jordan Valley , the Galilee , and parts of the Negev , it said . <p> " I looked at the reservist soldiers around me on the battlefield -- young people , full of values and Zionism -- and thought to myself : Once we complete our mission in the war and restore security to the North , we will take on the next mission for Israel -- strengthening the settlements in the north of the country and in the Gaza border communities , " said Israeli Reservists chairman Maj. ( res . ) Gilad Ach.IDF soldiers operate in the Gaza Strip , December 3 , 2024. ( credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <p> " It 's in our DNA for the population that has sacrificed for more than a year and served the public to invest in these crucial areas . The sense of unity we share will support us in this effort . Several groups have already approached us , expressing a desire to settle in these challenging areas , " he added . <p> According to Ach , " The path to ensuring victory is n't by holding onto territories in Lebanon and Gaza only ; it 's primarily through bolstering the existing settlements , which need the support of reservists now more than ever . " <h> Chikli , Strock comment on initiative <p> Chikli commented on the initiative , saying that " in the Gaza border communities , the Lebanon region , the Galilee , and the Negev , pioneering and settlement efforts are what is needed now . To strengthen the areas impacted by the war and to prepare for future challenges , we need young people to take the initiative , establish roots , and build their homes in these regions . <p> " In recent months , we have seen many commendable initiatives by reservists seeking to establish settlement contingents . We are working to support these efforts by collaborating with all relevant parties , from government ministries to local council leaders and field organizations , to turn this vision into reality , " he added . <p> Strock , whose ministry includes a division that deals with settlement , also commented on the initiative , saying that she was committed to rebuilding , expanding , and enhancing the northern region and its surroundings .
