<p> An arts fair taking place on Wednesday in Ganei Tikva will feature a group of extraordinary artists , IDF soldiers injured since October 7 and survivors of the Supernova music festival massacre . <p> Held in collaboration with the Re'im Association , the Creating Hope Art Fair will display its works as part of the artists ' rehabilitation journeys , with each piece telling a deeply personal story , shaped by the devastating events of October 7 . <p> The initiative is led by Itay Atias and Elisha Shmuelian who have transformed their own experiences of trauma into a mission to foster connection and hope through art . <p> Atias and Shmuelian , childhood friends and soldiers , were thrust into intense battles on October 7 , near Gaza . Their heroic efforts included rescuing dozens of female soldiers from the Re'im base amid heavy fire . Tragically , their unit suffered significant losses , and both sustained critical injuries . <p> During their long and challenging rehabilitation , the pair discovered the transformative potential of art , which helped them toward recovery , " physically and cognitively , " they explained to The Jerusalem Post . ELISHA SHMUELIAN ( left ) and Itay Atias. ( credit : Itay Atias ) <p> " It helped restore the coordination between eye and hand . Emotionally , it allowed us to express ourselves through painting , reigniting our passion for connecting people -- civilians and soldiers alike . " <p> " Art has the power to heal , " they continue . " Not only ourselves but also a broad spectrum of individuals affected by the ongoing war . " <p> The two established the fair to support survivors of the Nova massacre , financially strained reservists , and the local artist community , with the aim of helping to revive hope , rebuild the younger generation , and guide them toward resilience . <p> " The inspiration behind this project was the understanding that we are not alone on this journey , " they said . <p> The name of the fair , they add , delivers a profound message : " This generation is one of victory and renewal . " <h> Stories of strength and resilience <p> The fair provides a stage for a broad array of powerful and moving stories . One standout work is by a tank commander , Itai Dori . His painting portrays a father , clad in military gear , sitting on a bench with his young child on the far end . <p> Other artists have also poured their experiences into their craft . Roni Sif , a Nova festival survivor , found solace through spiritual and natural art after a healing journey in the East . <p> Yasmin Mastai , who endured a harrowing seven-hour escape under fire , discovered art as a remedy for her soul . Rakheli Nehemias , another Nova survivor , uses fashion and creative expression to bring joy back into her life . <p> Ariel Saat channels his trauma into art and tattoos , a medium through which he processes the loss of friends -- after being injured in Kfar Aza . Roy Goldberg from Kibbutz Re'im turned to music as a tool for emotional recovery . Yehonatan Ben Shabbat , injured by an explosive device in Rafah , is rebuilding his life through his business . Omer Kohana , wounded during Operation Swords of Iron , found peace in jewelry design . <p> Beyond a platform for self-expression and a showcase for such profound individual stories , the fair offers a unifying experience , connecting people through creativity . <p> Atias and Shmuelian describe how the fair has been a source of inspiration for its artists , " encouraging them to overcome personal challenges , manage daily routines , and engage in meaningful , unifying artistic encounters . " <p> The event 's timing on the Day of Appreciation for Wounded Soldiers and Victims of Hostilities carries special weight . It provides the artists an opportunity to " close a personal circle while raising awareness " through their creative contributions . <h> ' Survived to Tell -- Be the Witness ' VR project <p> A unique addition to the fair is " Survived to Tell -- Be the Witness , " an innovative VR ( virtual reality ) project led by Nimrod Palmach , CEO of ISRAEL-is , dedicated to improving global perceptions of Israel . <p> Palmach , a reserve major who fought during the attack on Gaza-border kibbutzim , documented the harrowing events he witnessed , creating an immersive work that brings the stories of survivors and rescuers to life , capturing the intensity of their experiences while honoring their pain and dignity . <p> " I knew that I did n't want to hold this story to myself , " Palmach told the Post . " I had to find an effective way to bring people with me and share with people what I saw with my own eyes , and what I felt while I was there on October 7 . " <p> Designed particularly to connect with younger generations , the project recognizes empathy as a " powerful tool " for communication . It depicts survivor testimonies , including Palmach 's own , and rare 360-degree footage from affected areas . <p> Not only has the project provided a means of catharsis , it also serves as a mechanism to fight on what he describes as the " eighth front " of the war : public sentiment , " the advocacy and media front . " <p> Since its inception , the experience has been shown to 15,000 people worldwide , receiving overwhelmingly positive reactions . <p> " No one can stay indifferent to it . It raises dialog , it raises questions , it raises a lot of emotions . " <p> Ganei Tikva Mayor Lizy Delaricha described the fair as a testament to human resilience . <p> " The Creating Hope Art fair is not just a fair . It is a story of courage , of confronting the impossible , and of the human capacity to find light even in the darkest moments , " she said . <p> " Amid all the pain , within the process of physical and emotional rehabilitation , they discovered the power of art . Art , which at first seemed like a peripheral activity , became a profound tool for processing pain , creating new meaning , and expressing oneself . "
