<h> The genocide kills dreams , not just people <p> The last illustration published by Mahasen Al-Khateeb ( right ) was of Shaban Al-Dalou burning in the yard of Al Aqsa Hospital Al Jazeera Arabic <p> Over the past 20-odd years , I have written a series of poems . I have kept them locked away in a folder , dreaming of publishing them accompanied by illustrations that would bring each poem to life . I needed someone to help transform my words into powerful images . <p> One October evening , earlier this year , I was scrolling through Instagram when I came across a beautiful image of Palestinian journalist Wael Dahdouh embracing his daughter . <p> It was the work of Mahasen al-Khateeb , one of Gaza 's most prolific artists . One post led to another and I soon found myself pulled deep into her art . <p> Until that moment , I had never heard of her . But the more time I spent on her page , the more I felt a connection to her simple yet powerful and vibrant drawings . Like most of her followers , I felt the art Mahasen produced struck a chord deep within . I later wondered if it was time to retrieve my old folder and rekindle the almost-forgotten dream of publishing my works . Perhaps Mahasen could illustrate them ? <p> I quickly made a note of her name on my phone and decided to reach out as soon as the war would end , excited by the prospect of collaborating with her . <p> Advertisement <p> Just a few days later , on the night of October 18 , Israel launched an air strike and killed Mahasen . She is one of tens of artists , designers and documentary filmmakers Israel has killed in the last 14 months . Mahasen was in the north , in Jabalia , where there was no media or ready access to aid groups or food and water . <p> Every death is a tragedy without measure . Mahasen was killed with her entire family ; another 20 people were also slaughtered in Jabalia that same night . But Israeli bombs did not just kill Mahasen ; they also killed her art , her aspirations and her hopes -- along with those of every single victim who was murdered with her . <p> Per official statistics , more than 45,000 Palestinian lives have been lost in the ongoing genocide . What this number does not capture is the ripple effect every single death has on the living -- on those who loved the victim , who relied on them , who found hope in their being . Reflecting on this reality plunges the mind and heart into a painful rupture . <p> I did not know Mahasen , but was greatly affected by her death . I can only imagine how those who knew felt . <p> How many more dreams will perish in this war ? How many aspirations , scribbled in the margins of notebooks , jotted down in diaries , or tucked away in a quiet corner of the mind , will be reduced to nothing in an instant ? The bombs do not only shatter buildings and refugee camps . They also obliterate dreams . <p> Dreams of children too young to understand . Dreams of education in schools completely eviscerated . Dreams of jobs and careers . Dreams of travel outside the narrow streets of refugee camps buried under smoke and rubble . Dreams of success of a small business that collapsed in the blink of an eye . Dreams of love and companionship smothered by weddings postponed indefinitely or cancelled forever . <p> Advertisement <p> We are painfully aware of all this death . Life in Gaza comes in fragments , brief moments that we try to grasp fully . We do not plan because we do not know if there will be tomorrow . <p> And yet , we still dream . We draw , write , love , and resist . Every smile we share , every story we tell , every poem we write , is an act of defiance , a declaration that , despite the destruction , life continues to beat in our hearts . <p> Our dreams are not grand or dangerous . But somehow , they terrify our oppressors . They fear our dreams because we seek freedom and persist against all odds . They fear our dreams because they challenge the status quo . But dreams can not be suppressed forever , no matter how much blood is spilled . <p> As I now put my folder of poems back to where I had kept it , a part of me realises the need to seize every moment before it is taken from us by a missile , a shell , or a bullet . <p> I continue to dream of the day Gaza will transform from a battleground into a destination of beauty , a city that stands tall , having survived annihilation . And with me , all Palestinians continue to dream of breaking free , even when that seems distant and impossible . <p> The views expressed in this article are the author 's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera 's editorial stance .
