<p> The presentation at a local therapy conference prompted a letter-writing campaign . The director says she 's received physical threats online . <p> Students and visitors on Villanova University campus in this 2019 file photo . A presentation by the director of the school 's counseling center has prompted a letter-writing campaign to Villanova.Read moreYONG KIM / Staff Photographer <p> At a psychology conference last month , hundreds of therapists , researchers , and students descended on the Philadelphia Marriott Downtown in Center City to catch up on the latest in the field . The day culminated in a session on antiracism , led by Nathalie Edmond , a psychologist who directs Villanova University 's Counseling Center . <p> Two slides from her session about dismantling oppression prompted outrage among some attendees : One showed a spectrum of " acceptable discourse , " with " cultural freedoms " on one end and " Zionism and fascism " on the other . <p> Advertisement <p> The second depicted " The Colonized Mind , " labeled with various ideologies , including " internalized racism , " " homophobia , " " rape culture , " and " Zionism . " <p> Villanova , a Catholic University on the Main Line , largely hasavoided the protests and criticism over Israel and Gaza that have embroiled other campuses since Oct. 7 , 2023 . But Edmond 's presentation -- with those two graphics produced by the Slow Factory , a progressive environmental nonprofit with an Instagram account often critical of Israel -- gave way to outrage that has found its way to Villanova administrators . <p> Excerpts from the presentation quickly ricocheted across social media and through pockets of the Jewish and therapeutic communities , where observers called the slides antisemitic . It prompted a decentralized letter-writing campaign to Villanova , urging the university to " review Dr. Edmond 's suitability for her current role . " <p> Andrew Goretsky , regional director for the Philadelphia office of the Anti-Defamation League , said the organization received " quite a few " complaints about the presentation . <p> He said he met with representatives from Villanova twice since the November conference . In the meetings , Goretsky said , he urged the university to clarify that Edmond 's statements did not represent the university 's view and to provide training for staff and administration on " modern-day antisemitism and Jewish identity connection to Israel . " <p> Some see criticism of Zionism , the belief that Israel is the nation-state of the Jewish people , as inherently antisemitic . Others , including some Jewish activists , say Zionism is a political ideology and opposition to it should not be conflated with prejudice against Jewish people . <p> " Dr. Edmond spoke in a private capacity and her views , like the diverse views of our nearly 2,000 staff members , do not and should not be perceived to represent the position of Villanova University , " the university said in a statement to The Inquirer . <p> A spokesperson said that the university reviewed the matter and " has taken appropriate actions , " and declined to comment further on internal personnel matters . The university has not put out any communication to its community addressing the presentation . The majority of emails the university received about Edmond 's presentation were from people who had no connection to Villanova , the spokesperson said . <h> A conference on reconciling opposites <p> Participants came to the Philadelphia conference to learn about dialectical behavior therapy , or DBT , which focuses on teaching people skills to manage intense emotions and cope with challenging situations . One of its central tenets is " the dialectical , " the idea that two opposite things can be true at the same time . <p> The International Society for Improvement and Teaching of Dialectical Behavior Therapy hosts the annual daylong conference in connection with the far bigger Association for Behavioral and Cognitive Therapies conference . Each year , several hundred people attend presentations on new research and workshops where therapists can earn continuing education credits . <p> When Edmond finished her presentation , Sivan Komatsu , a 25-year-old graduate student studying school psychology at the University of Washington in Seattle , approached the mic to say she was distressed by the " huge , huge antisemitism in those slides . " As an Israeli American Jew , Komatsu said , she saw the references to Zionism as effectively anti-Jewish and as troubling misinformation that would ripple out from the room . <p> Another attendee filmed the exchange , which was polite and respectful on both sides , with Edmond thanking Komatsu after she spoke while disagreeing with some of what she said . <p> As clips from the exchange traveled online in the week after the conference , Edmond , who declined to comment for this article , released an 18-minute YouTube video , acknowledging that her slides had caused harm while also pushing back against the idea " that simply the mention or critique of Zionism is antisemitic . " <p> " I really try to take an intersectional antiracism view that tries to combat antisemitism while also tries to amplify the voices of Palestinian people who are currently experiencing a genocide , " Edmond said in the video . <p> She described a backlash that has been " fierce and painful " and included efforts to get her fired , to get her psychology license revoked , and to harm her consulting business . As a Black woman , Edmond added in her YouTube video , " What I have experienced digitally I would describe as a modern-day lynching . " <p> In an interview , Komatsu said she found the slides problematic because the conference presented Edmond as an expert . <p> " She was up there in front of hundreds of people , teaching us , " Komatsu said . <p> The conference board sent an apology letter to attendees about the " incredible pain and harm " caused by the presentation , while also denouncing " threats of physical harm " that Edmond received in response to it .
