<p> Sharon Aloni Cunio was kidnapped with her two young daughters along with her husband David , who remains in captivity . In her testimony , she spoke of the difficulty of being separated from her husband . <p> " The hardest moment of my life came on the first day of the hostages deal : we were separated from David , " she said . " We hugged him , and our daughters held onto him with their small hands , not understanding what this goodbye meant . He remained there , alone in the dark tunnels . <p> " Decision-makers must understand the scars and illnesses we returned with after just 52 days : pneumonia , infections , weight loss , unending fears and nightmares . Now imagine 438 days like this -- what David is enduring there alone - a year without us ? <h> ' 55 days of hell ' <p> Ilana Gritzewsky , who was rescued during the first hostage deal , and whose partner , Matan Zangauker , is still a hostage in Gaza , shared her experience . " For 55 days , I lived in hell . Fifty-five days of hunger , helplessness , humiliation , and fear . I was moved between apartments and tunnels , struggling to breathe , without a moment of hope . Every second there was etched into my body and soul . Every minute was a fight for survival . <p> " I stand here as a woman who returned from captivity . I know how that hell feels . I know what they 're going through right now - you can not abandon them for one more day , " she stated . " Make a deal . Now . A comprehensive deal . Leave no one behind . End this war in exchange for a deal ! " <p> She continued with an address to US President-elect Donald Trump : " You are a leader who knows how to win , how to turn the tide when all hope seems lost . Now is the moment to prove it . One hundred hostages -- men , women , children -- are still being held in the depths of hell . My partner , my friends , and countless innocent lives are wasting away while the world stands silent . This is your chance to change history . Step in . End this war . Bring the hostages home . No words . No promises . Only action . " <h> ' Terrorists took everything from me ' <p> Meirav Tal and her partner , Yair ( Yaya ) Yaakov , were kidnapped from Kibbutz Nir Oz . At the Hostage Square she spoke of Yaakov , whose body remains in captivity . " The thought that I 'm free and no longer moving between dark hideouts or tunnels takes me right back to that place , where I was kidnapped along with my beloved Yaya Yaakov 's children - Or and Yagil . Yaya was murdered , and his body is still held in Gaza . <p> " I was there for 53 days during which the terrorists took everything from me : control over my will , what I could or could n't do , when I could speak , when I could eat , drink , sleep and shower , when I could sit , lie down or stand - only my thoughts remained free -- the one thing they could n't take from me . <p> " We must not forget them . I was there , believe me . Forgetting them is killing them anew each day . Forgetting them means forgetting who we were , who we are , and who we want to be . Until Yaya and the last hostage are home , we can not heal without them . We must bring back Yaya and all the hostages in a comprehensive deal that will close this chapter for all of us and allow healing and recovery to begin . " <h> Lack of medical treatment <p> Released hostage Raz Ben Ami , whose husband , Ohad , is still held captive , spoke of the lack of medical treatment in Gaza as well as the new life-threatening risks that winter will bring to the remaining hostages . <p> " We know the Red Cross has n't seen or visited him , and just as I did n't receive medication for my condition , I have no doubt that Ohad is n't getting what he needs , " she said . " He 's likely only getting what I received - shouts and threats . I begged for the medical help I desperately needed ; my health severely deteriorated there and continued to decline after my return because I did n't receive the medications I must take . <p> " Winter is here , it 's cold , and there it 's even colder . Even when conditions in Gaza were supposedly tolerable , it took a long time until we received blankets and warm clothing . The cold , combined with more than a year of nightmare in tunnels under bombardment , is unbearable . <p> " Medical research shows that in this cold , without protective layers , the human body can not survive . We must remind everyone involved in negotiations that we can not delay . Every day there is one day too many - 438 days and nights are an endless hell . " <h> ' We must bring everyone back ' <p> Lena Troufanov , mother of Russian-Israeli hostage Alexander ( Sasha ) Troufanov , who remains in Gaza , remarked on her faith in Israel . <p> " When I was in captivity , I never doubted I would get out . I was certain that the State of Israel would do everything to free us , " she said . " For this feeling -- that our country stands behind us and will do anything for us regardless of the cost -- to remain alive for our children and grandchildren , we must bring everyone back . <p> What protected us was this sense of solidarity , this feeling of national unity and that every person matters . Please save them all , leave no one behind -- we do n't abandon our wounded in the field . "
