<p> A new report Thursday from New York-based advocacy group Human Rights Watch , or HRW , has accused Israel of committing genocide for intentionally depriving civilians in Gaza of an adequate water supply , likely resulting in the deaths of thousands . <p> The 179-page report published on the group 's website outlines how , since the war between Israel and the militant group Hamas began in October 2023 , Israeli authorities and forces cut off and later restricted piped water to Gaza , as well as cutting electricity and restricting fuel , rendering most of the enclave 's sanitation infrastructure useless . <p> Additionally , the report said Israel deliberately destroyed and damaged water and sanitation infrastructure and water repair materials ; and blocked the entry of critical water supplies . <p> In a statement , HRW Executive Director Tirana Hassan accused Israel of deliberately depriving Palestinians of an element essential for human life for more than a year . <p> " This is n't just negligence , " Hassan said . " It is a calculated policy of deprivation that has led to the deaths of thousands from dehydration and disease that is nothing short of the crime against humanity of extermination , and an act of genocide . " <p> FILE - Palestinian children sort through trash in Nuseirat refugee camp , Gaza Strip , June 20 , 2024 . Israel 's war in Gaza has decimated the strip 's sanitation system , leaving many Palestinians living in tent camps near water contaminated with sewage and growing piles of garbage . <p> Israel emphatically denied the charges . In a statement , Israel 's Coordination of Government Activities in the Territories agency , COGAT , called HRW 's charges a " libelous claim , " and " an egregious lie . " <p> The COGAT statement said millions of liters of water flow into Gaza through three pipelines , and Israel has " facilitated hundreds of water infrastructure repairs and fixed water lines leading to Gaza on the Israeli side that were damaged by Hamas . " <p> " We operate in accordance with international law , " the COGAT statement said . " Saying otherwise is just flagrant deceit , " the statement said . <p> Earlier Thursday , medics in Gaza reported Israeli airstrikes overnight killed at least 13 people in northern and central parts of the Gaza Strip . <p> The strikes came as mediators worked to try to secure a ceasefire deal between Israel and Hamas that would include the release of hostages still held in Gaza . <p> U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said late Wednesday that he is " hopeful " an agreement can be reached and pledged to spend all the time left in the waning days of the Biden administration to try to make a deal happen . <p> " It should happen . It needs to happen . We need to get people home , " Blinken said during an event at the Council on Foreign Relations . " We need to get the ceasefire . We need to get people moving in a different direction , toward better lives , toward repairing the terrible damage that 's been done . " <p> Blinken said Hamas has been the " main impediment " to a ceasefire deal , but that he thinks Hamas leaders understand at this point that their supporters such as Hezbollah and Iran are " not coming to the rescue . " <p> CIA Director William Burns landed in Qatar on Wednesday for meetings with Qatari officials , the latest in what has been months of work by the United States , Qatar and Egypt to try to broker an agreement . <p> Danny Danon , Israel 's ambassador to the United Nations , expressed hope about achieving a deal as he spoke to reporters Wednesday . <p> " After many rejections by Hamas , we hope we 're going to have some news before the holiday of Hanukkah and Christmas , " Danon said . <p> FILE - Palestinians displaced by the Israeli bombardment of the Gaza Strip queue for water at a makeshift tent camp in the southern town of Khan Younis , July 1 , 2024 . <p> Still , Danon cautioned that in the past , Hamas has made last-minute demands that had thwarted other possible agreements , while the militants have in turn blamed Israel for the monthslong stalemate in reaching a halt to the warfare . <p> New possible terms of a ceasefire and hostage release seemed in flux . <p> " We hope it will be in one stage " with the release of all hostages , Danon said , " because we want to see all the hostages back home . " <p> He added , though , " Maybe it will not be in one stage . And basically , it will be similar to what we saw in the past more than a year ago -- that you have a ceasefire , a long one , and at the same time of the ceasefire , during that ceasefire , hostages will be released . And we are talking mainly on the humanitarian aspect of women and the sick and the older hostages . " <p> Months of talks have proven fruitless in halting the fighting triggered by the shock Oct. 7 , 2023 , Hamas attack on Israel that killed about 1,200 people and led to the capture of 250 hostages . <p> Gaza health officials say Israel 's counteroffensive has killed at least 45,000 Palestinians , more than half of them women and children , while Israel says the death toll includes thousands of Hamas combatants . <p> Hamas has been designated as a terror group by the United States , the United Kingdom , the European Union and others . <p> VOA 's United Nations correspondent Margaret Besheer contributed to this report . Some information came from The Associated Press , Agence France-Presse and Reuters . <p> The Voice of America provides news and information in more than 40 languages to an estimated weekly audience of over 326 million people . Stories with the VOA News byline are the work of multiple VOA journalists and may contain information from wire service reports .
