<p> Amid intense speculation about how close the sides are to a deal , about how it is just a matter of days and how it will materialize before US President-elect Donald Trump takes office on January 20 , everyone involved should just not speak . <p> Their saying the deal is as close as ever may be well-intentioned -- it may want to give some comfort to the family members of the hostages -- but it could have the opposite effect : raising false hopes and expectations.Visitors at Hostage Square in Tel Aviv , December 18 , 2024 ( credit : MIRIAM ALSTER/FLASH90 ) <p> We have been there before . <p> On January 24 , this was the headline of a New York Times article : " Negotiators Close In on Hostage Deal That Would Halt Fighting in Gaza for Weeks . " <p> On May 7 , Reuters ran this as its headline : " US Believes Israel , Hamas Can Close Gaps on Hostage Deal . " And on August 17 , the BBC ran this headline : " Israel-Gaza ceasefire deal closer than ever , Biden says . " <p> Each time , however , the hopes failed to materialize . There have been numerous times during this heartbreaking saga when various officials have said that a deal was just around the corner , only for that corner to suddenly disappear . <h> It 's not over until it 's over <p> This is a textbook case of something not being over until it is over . And until it is over , everyone should be quiet . Irresponsible chatter does n't help the negotiations and only misguides the public and cultivates false hopes . <p> In negotiations such as these , excessive publicity can undermine talks in a delicate stage . Public declarations can embolden Hamas to demand more or -- again -- withdraw entirely , knowing the government is facing mounting pressure to deliver . Silence , in this context , is not weakness ; it is good strategy . <p> That rule of silence does not apply to the family of the hostages , who need to speak out to keep the issue on the agenda , ensure it remains a top priority , and make sure the fate of their loved ones is not the same as that of Ron Arad . Arad was the airman whose plane exploded over Lebanon in 1986 , was taken prisoner , and never heard from again -- with the government telling the family that staying quiet would be the best way to expedite his release . <p> Nevertheless , even the words of the family members of the hostages need to be weighed carefully . There is an understandable tendency to give the families wide berth to say whatever they want , and in whatever tone they deem fit , about the country and its leaders . It is right not to sit in judgment of those in whose shoes we do not walk . <p> Nevertheless , some of the recent comments by some relatives of the hostages , such as saying the government is abandoning the hostages or these words yelled at MK Ze'ev Elkin in the Knesset -- " If my son comes back in a body bag or as body parts , I wo n't bring you to trial , I will take the law into my own hands " -- are counterproductive . <p> The families ' voices are vital , but so is discretion . Reckless accusations risk alienating potential allies in the government and the public , whose support is essential to keeping the hostages ' plight at the forefront of the national consciousness . <p> First of all , the state has been fighting a war for more than 14 months in an effort to free the hostages . Hundreds of soldiers have died and thousands have been wounded in the effort . So to say the state has abandoned the hostages is off-key . <p> Secondly , the super-strident rhetoric distances people from this very just cause rather than bringing them closer to it . <p> The families ' anguish is undeniable , and their voices must remain part of the national conversation . But unnecessary or unmeasured words , whether from officials or loved ones , risk complicating an already very delicate and precarious process .
