<h> The rector of the Estonian Academy of Arts said the move was in line with " most art universities in Europe . " <p> By SHIRA LI BARTOV/JTA DECEMBER 19 , 2024 17:28 <p> The Estonian Academy of Arts , known as EKA , announced that it was cutting ties with Israeli universities in December 2024. ( photo credit : WIKIPEDIA ) <p> An Estonian university has cut ties with an Israeli university , setting off a chain of rebukes from the government , and pressure from its board . <p> The rector of the Estonian Academy of Arts , or EKA , now says the decision to cut ties will be reviewed . The rector , Mart Kalm , also said critics of the decision had misinterpreted a " technical matter " for an ideological one . <p> " I should apologize for my imprecise wording , which has upset people , taken on a life of its own , and allowed misunderstandings to arise , " Kalm said on an Estonian news show . <p> The firestorm erupted after EKA canceled a design anthropology workshop with a visiting Israeli professor last week . The workshop with Jonathan Ventura , a professor at Shenkar College in Tel Aviv , was slated for February . <p> EKA also said it now has no partnerships with Israeli or Palestinian universities , citing " difficult international and in-house sentiments " surrounding Israel 's war in Gaza . In a statement on Tuesday , the university said that it " sympathises with all those who are suffering in the current war . " Kristen Michal Prime Minister of Estonia arrives at the European Council Meeting on December 19 , 2024 in Brussels , Belgium . ( credit : Pier Marco Tacca/Getty Images ) <p> The statement added , " EKA wants to provide a safe study , work and creative environment for its members , students and staff , regardless of generation , religion or worldview . " <p> He was joined by Minister of Foreign Affairs Margus Tsahkna , who said EKA took " a step in the wrong direction " considering Estonia 's friendly relations with Israel . ( When the country recently supported a United Nations resolution calling on Israel to end its occupation of Palestinian territories , the Estonia -- Israel Parliamentary Friendship Group of the Riigikogu , or parliament , called the move a regrettable departure from the norm . ) <p> Tsahkna also encouraged the university 's council , akin to a university board in the United States , to intervene in the decision . The council did just that after a meeting on Tuesday . <p> " The council advised the rector , together with his colleagues , to look at this issue , which has now become a much bigger issue , once again , and consider all the pros and cons , " said EKA Council Chair Maria M ? gi-Rohtmets . <p> Before signaling that he would review the decision , Kalm told Estonian media that EKA 's decision aligned with " most art universities in Europe . " A wave of European schools severed ties with Israeli institutions or agreed to divest from Israel-linked companies earlier this year , following student protests against Israel 's actions in Gaza in its war against Hamas . <p> Kalm also said he had corresponded with Israeli schools that " expressed their understanding " based on international sentiments opposing the war in Gaza . <p> Ventura , the Israeli professor whose workshop was canceled , told media that he wanted to avoid a flare of tensions , which he said he had already experienced at universities in Switzerland . <h> Estonia 's Jewish community <p> Some members of Estonia 's Jewish community have joined in the criticism of EKA . The country is home to about 2,000 Jews . <p> Alla Jakobson , chair of Estonia 's Jewish communal body , said it was " unacceptable " to end relations with Israeli scholars and students for " political reasons " and accused the university of contributing to an environment that fostered antisemitism . <p> " This decision sends out a worrying signal that undermines academic and cultural ties between Estonia and Israel , " the communal body said in a statement . " It is also contrary to the principles of academic freedom , international exchange of knowledge and cultural dialogue , and to the commitments made by the Estonian state when signing the IHRA definition of antisemitism in 2007. "
