<p> According to Cellier , the investigation uncovered deeply concerning details about Le Monde 's editorial practices . Testimonies from within the newsroom reveal that the French Jewish community was explicitly referred to as a " hostile community " during editorial meetings . Cellier further highlighted an incident where a journalist mocked a Jewish colleague , sneering , " So , how 's your aliyah project coming along ? " <p> The investigation also exposed glaring examples of biased reporting . A special issue commemorating one year since the October 7 attacks focused exclusively on " Gaza 's suffering , " completely ignoring the massacres and kidnappings that occurred . The following day , another article dismissed Israeli trauma as mere " whining , " further solidifying claims of anti-Israel bias in the paper 's coverage . <p> At the center of the controversy is Benjamin Barthe , the author of Ramallah Dream . Barthe is married to Muzna Shehabi , a pro-Palestinian activist and former negotiator for the Palestinian Authority . According to Cellier , Shehabi once wrote , following the death of Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh , " May God have mercy on him and all the martyrs , and may He destroy the Zionist entity . " This connection , Cellier suggests , exemplifies the ideological leanings influencing the paper 's editorial decisions . <p> Cellier argues that cancel culture has become a powerful suppression tool within Le Monde . He claims that young " woke " activists have taken over the newsroom , creating a climate of fear that prevents internal dissent . Journalists interviewed for the investigation requested anonymity but provided photographic evidence of propaganda plastered on the newsroom walls , mirroring messaging from the far-left , antisemitic political party La France Insoumise . The front page of daily newspaper Le Monde , with the headline , ' ' United Kingdom Leaves Europe ' ' is seen at their printing works following Britain 's referendum results to leave the European Union , in Tremblay-en-France , near Paris , France , June 24 , 2016. ( credit : REUTERS/CHRISTIAN HARTMANN ) <p> The investigation also sheds light on the strained relationship between Le Monde and its readership . Following significant subscriber losses after the October 7 anniversary issue , the newspaper 's reader relations manager was asked why the paper continues to lean left . His response : " The newspaper has n't shifted leftward ; it 's the French public that has become more right-wing . " <h> Le Monde has ' lost its right to be considered France 's leading newspaper ' <p> Dominique Reyni ? , head of the Fondapol Research Institute , delivered a sharp critique of the paper 's direction . " Le Monde has lost its right to be considered France 's leading newspaper , " she said . " It is now a media outlet with an ideological agenda , silencing dissenting voices under the guise of moral superiority . " <p> Cellier notes that while Le Monde has historically been seen as a pillar of French journalism , its current trajectory has sparked a broader conversation about media integrity . For the French Jewish community , however , this investigation confirms longstanding concerns about the normalization of antisemitism within influential institutions .
