<h> The Houthis are one example where precision strikes on infrastructure such as ports may not work to win the conflict . <p> A banner depicting U.S. and Israeli flags is burned , as protesters , mainly Houthi supporters , rally to show support to Palestinians in the Gaza Strip , in Sanaa , Yemen December 13 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/KHALED ABDULLAH ) <p> The Iranian-backed Houthis launched a missile attack targeting Tel Aviv in the early morning hours of Saturday . It came two days after another similar long-range missile attack had led to Israeli retaliation against the Houthis . There was also an attack on December 16 by the Houthis . <p> This group is now posing as the " last man standing " in Iran 's axis of " resistance " groups that have been attacking Israel . However , it does not appear to be deterred by Israeli attacks on various types of infrastructure . <p> It 's important to understand that Israel has carried out three rounds of retaliatory strikes on the Houthis , one in July , then in September and now in December . However , the group continues to attack . <h> Struggles Israel faces <p> In fact , it is increasing its attacks , using long range missiles and drones . Yemen is more than 2,000 kilometers away from Israel , making retaliation difficult . Warplanes have to fly a long mission , with refuelers to accomplish the strikes on the enemy . <p> The Houthis know this . They also know that Hezbollah has been weakened , Hamas is weakened and that Iran has been pushed out of Syria by the fall of the Assad regime . Iranian-backed militias in Iraq appear to have also stepped back from attacks on Israel . Israeli emergency services work at the scene of a missile strike that was launched from Yemen and landed in Jaffa , south of Tel Aviv , Israel , December 21 , 2024. ( credit : STOYAN NENOV/REUTERS ) <p> This leaves the Houthis as one of the main fronts Iran can use in attacks , which is why they are increasing the strikes . In the Thursday attack debris from a missile fell on a school , collapsing part of it . The attack took place early in the morning , so no one was harmed . <p> However the attack on Saturday morning did injure people . The IDF said that " overnight , a missile was fired from Yemen into central Israel , and a fallen projectile was identified in the Tel Aviv-Yafo area . IDF Home Front Command teams and additional rescue forces were dispatched to the scene and began searching the area along with additional security forces , local officials , and emergency services to investigate the scene of the fallen projectile . " <p> Several civilians were injured . The missile impacted a site near Jaffa . This is a dangerous escalation and shows that Israel can not sit back and just let the Houthis attack , as has been the case for a year and two months . Israel has focused on other fronts . <p> It also shows that photos atop Mount Hermon with Israeli officials and top military brass seemingly declaring victory are not enough to stop the Houthis , or Hamas , which continues to hold 100 hostages . <p> Israel also faces challenges with Hezbollah . Many people have not returned to the border , because the two-month ceasefire could be fragile . This illustrates that a sense of victory that Israel has felt may be misplaced .
