<p> Max Page , President of the MTA , speaks at a demonstration for new teacher contracts and equitable pay for educators in Malden and Haverhill outside of Malden City Hall in Malden , Mass. on Oct. 15 , 2022 . Carlin Stiehl for The Boston Globe <p> The New England chapter of the American Jewish Committee has released a report accusing the Massachusetts Teachers Association of demonizing Israel and promoting one-sided educational material about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . <p> " This campaign risks politicizing K-12 classrooms across Massachusetts . Our schools should be places for education , not indoctrination , " AJC New England Director Rob Leikind said in a statement . " The MTA 's actions over the last year raise questions about its commitment to this ideal . They also are contributing to an increasingly toxic environment for Jewish students and families . " <p> In a statement , MTA President Max Page and Vice President Deb McCarthy said the union 's board voted to create optional resources for teachers to help them understand the history of the conflict . Those resources include educational materials with a range of voices and perspectives , they said . <p> Advertisement <p> " The MTA is aware that any recommended resources on this topic will be controversial . The union moved deliberately and with much reflection to assemble materials that members could consider to enrich their own understanding , " Page and McCarthy said . " As a democratic union , we embrace healthy debate and learning , and this issue is no different . " <p> Hamas ' attack on Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , and Israel 's subsequent military campaign in Gaza , have already caused schisms within the MTA 's membership . On Dec. 9 , 2023 , the MTA 's board of directors passed a resolution calling for the United States to stop funding Israel 's " genocidal war " in Gaza . Several local chapters criticized the resolution including the Newton Teachers Association which branded it " anti-Semitic dog-whistling . " <p> The AJC criticized the December resolution for failing to include any reference to the hundreds of Israeli hostages held by Hamas . The MTA had previously signed on to a joint petition with other labor unions that called for both a ceasefire and the release of hostages . Four days after the resolution went out , the union 's leadership released a statement that called for peace and described Oct. 7 as a " horrific attack . " <p> The AJC 's report also criticized a measure passed by the MTA board in June rejecting the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance 's working definition of antisemitism . That definition says examples of antisemitism include describing the existence of the state of Israel as racist and comparing Israeli policy to that of the Nazis . The MTA 's motion said right-wing groups are lobbying to have the state adopt that definition in an effort to " manufacture hysteria " and quash legitimate discussion of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . <p> Advertisement <p> The AJC highlighted a March webinar for teachers on anti-Palestinian racism that was held by the union 's antiracism task force . The webinar discussed the Israeli-Palestinian conflict as part of a " larger framework of colonialism and imperialism , " and disputed claims that anti-Zionism is inherently antisemitic . <p> The Anti-Defamation League said the webinar promoted " antisemitic and anti-Israel falsehoods . " In April , State Senators Jason Lewis and Rebecca Rausch sent Page a letter saying the union 's actions did not support " productive dialogue or meaningful strides toward peace . " <p> Page , who is Jewish and a former synagogue president , said in May that allegations of antisemitism against union leadership were " ludicrous . " <p> " There 's a real danger in our society today when we make sort of grand pronouncements about the essence of one person or another , and I just think that rarely helps develop a conversation , " he said . <p> The AJC report raised concerns about the MTA 's website referring teachers to educational materials with a pro-Palestinian or anti-Israel perspective . It levied particular criticism against Ricardo Rosa , who leads the MTA 's Training and Professional Learning division , citing pro-Palestinian posts Rosa made on social media . The report includes a screenshot of an alleged post on Rosa 's Instagram on Oct. 9 , 2023 , with the words " Free Palestine " above an illustration of people waving Palestinian flags and carrying slingshots . <p> Hamas killed about 1,200 Israelis in its Oct. 7 attack , including hundreds of civilians , and abducted hundreds more to keep as hostages . Israel 's retaliatory campaign has killed more than 45,000 people , including tens of thousands of women and children , according to Gaza 's Health Ministry , which does not distinguish between civilian and combatant deaths .
