<h> Meirav Leshem Gonen , whose daughter Romi is still captive in Gaza , reflects on Hanukkah and the light we can share to bring the hostages home . <p> This year , more than any other , I feel deeply drawn to lighting Hanukkah candles . In previous years , if I happened to light them , it was wonderful : as a family , we have lovely , happy traditions around candle lighting that illuminate my home . When the children are with me , it illuminates my home even more . <p> This year , I feel that each of us can and should increase the light . It 's as simple as that . In my eyes , Hanukkah 's true lesson is n't actually about the miracle of light , but rather that increasing light takes time , determination , and persistence . <p> How is this reflected in the holiday and its candles ? <p> Romi Gonen , who is still in Hamas captivity . ( credit : COURTESY ) <h> Hanukkah reflections <p> Well , on the first day , the " shamash " ( helper candle ) lights just one candle , ready to join its mission of holding the light for everyone . On the second it lights two candles , on the third day , three , and so on until the entire menorah is filled with light -- a sparkling , colorful , inviting light that provides a signal of direction and focus for all of us . <p> Even the colors of the Hanukkah candles give me strength this year , bringing me joy even more than in previous years . Firstly , because they differ from the white and pure Shabbat candles or the wide and solid memorial candles , they introduce different colors -- just like we , the people of Israel , come in different and special shades . <p> Secondly , because when the moment arrives , right after lighting the candles , we begin our family tradition of dripping wax into water-filled glasses -- the result ( which looks like cheerful coasters ) is colorful and unique , each of my children with their own beloved texture and favorite shades . <p> The thin candles remind me that sometimes it 's harder to maintain colorfulness and joy , while the leg they stand on is thinner and perhaps even more fragile . <p> This year , lighting Hanukkah candles seems more important to me than ever before . This year 's candle lighting is a reminder that light will grow when we agree to accept everyone 's colors and when we understand that our differences strengthen us more than our similarities . <h> Come together <p> That diversity is what truly helps us grow and makes us better , braver , and stronger -- not sameness . That every color is needed to illuminate our strength as the people of Israel , as free nations , and signals to all of us , and to many peoples , where the good side of history lies and where true light resides . <p> True light resides in joining together as a community , as inseparable forces ; true light resides in the ability to see each individual among us as deserving to maintain their uniqueness while needing community to develop and flourish . <p> I invite us all this year to focus on the light that each of us adds when joining other lights and other voices -- to be the light that gives hope and strengthens others ; to be the light with presence , the light that speaks its words in an illuminating and strengthening way , and refuses to remain in the candle box in darkness or in silence . <p> Because light is what will bring back the hostages , light is what will allow us to deal with the forces of darkness and evil , and light is what will keep us united for thousands more years and eternity . The light . Not the silence and darkness . <p> The writer 's daughter , Romi , was kidnapped by Hamas terrorists on October 7 from the Supernova music festival and is still being held hostage in Gaza .
