<p> The language people use to talk about the Israel-Hamas war has power : It can contribute to misunderstanding and alienation , but it can also bring about appreciation for concepts that can seem impossible during this kind of conflict , such as peace . <p> I was born to a Palestinian Arab father and an Israeli Jewish mother -- a union that might sound romantic at first . In reality , my parents were the Romeo and Juliet of falafel stands . They could n't marry ; interfaith marriages are illegal in Israel , and their type of romance is taboo in the Palestinian territories . As one of the few children born of such unions , I 've felt like an outsider my entire life . <p> On weekends , my family usually visited Palestinian families in Nazareth or accompanied Israeli friends to a kibbutz . Wherever we went , my parents coached us to adjust our identities to fit in . Among Palestinians , speaking too much Hebrew or making too many references to popular Israeli books or music was often frowned upon . With Israeli friends , I learned it was better to refrain from speaking Arabic and to downplay connections to religions other than Judaism . <p> Aziz Abu Sarah and Maoz Inon have each suffered losses in the conflict between Israel and Palestinians . Instead of dividing them , these experiences created a tragic common ground . <p> Nov. 29 , 2024 <p> We were like water , always reflecting the people in front of us and hiding what was underneath . <p> I studied to become a writer and my early poetry was preoccupied with my search for belonging . I wrote first in Hebrew and then in Arabic . For years , I wrote for Israeli audiences ; later , I switched my focus to Arab audiences . Yet I felt incomplete either way , as if I had to sacrifice part of myself to reach anyone . Now I write in English , which strikes me as more neutral . <p> During the current Israel-Hamas war , I 've noticed the words that people on both sides of the conflict use and avoid , and what those choices say about their sense of identity and belonging . Some of my Israeli friends , even those who consider themselves left-wing , say things like " There 's no such thing as Palestinians ; that place never existed , " a sentiment that echoes that of some Israeli leaders . Similarly , some Palestinian leaders deny Israel 's existence , and some of my Palestinian friends insist that my mother is n't an Israeli , just a Jew . <p> Advertisement <p> What people do n't say is just as relevant . Many Israelis shy away from terms such as " apartheid " and " genocide , " as if using the words could be a first step toward acknowledging injustices . And many Palestinians avoid words such as " conflict " and " war " because they believe that Israel is responsible for the hostilities taking place . Some Palestinians also eschew the term " terrorism , " viewing Hamas ' Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack as legitimate resistance to occupation . <p> By feeling forced to pick a side , the whole world is now experiencing what has been my life struggle -- deciding whether I 'm Israeli or Palestinian ( and getting backlash for whichever I choose ) . <p> Jan. 7 , 2024 <p> Semantic differences can be signaled in nonverbal ways too , especially on social media . The watermelon emoji , for example , with colors like the Palestinian flag 's , is used to signal support for Gaza , while the yellow ribbon emoji is used to indicate support for Israel . <p> I 've learned to use both groups ' terms for something at the same time whenever possible to preserve my hybrid identity and maintain neutrality . For example , when I speak of the holy city , I call it " Jerusalem-Al-Quds , " embracing both its Israeli and Palestinian names . I use the terms " Nakba " and " establishment of Israel " in the same sentence . This is my way of respecting both narratives . <p> Advertisement <p> I also draw on terminology from both sides in my writing , recognizing that the weaponization of language traps people in denial . It causes them to mistake the light of empathy for darkness , much as in Plato 's allegory of the cave , and overlook the possibility of coexistence . I see trying to liberate words from their cages as part of my job . <p> Because if we ca n't communicate about our pain and suffering , it 's no surprise that we see peace as a form of weakness or surrender . <p> For many Palestinians , the two-state solution is an empty American promise , and therefore permission for Israeli occupation . For many Israelis , a two-state solution is a precursor to another Oct. 7 massacre . I ca n't blame any of them for their fears and traumas . But I hope to be one of the many people who help them understand the word " peace " as a positive and a possibility . <p> Amir Sommer is an award-winning poet and author who divides his time between Berlin and California .
