<p> The Boycott , Divestment and Sanctions ( BDS ) and The Palestinian Campaign for the Academic &amp; Cultural Boycott of Israel ( PCACBI ) movements called on Saturday for people to boycott Marvel and Disney over the companies 's " whitewashing - and therefore enabling - Israel 's ongoing genocide against the Palestinian people . " <p> PACBI took issue with Marvel 's Captain America : Brave New World and Disney 's Snow White remake . Both movies are set for release in early 2025 and , according to PACBI , " normalize anti-Palestinian racism and cover up Israel 's ongoing carnage in Gaza . " <p> The Israel-Hamas War being fought in Gaza began when Hamas terrorists invaded southern Israel , breaking an existing ceasefire , and murdered some 1200 people . In the terrorist organization 's cross-border attacks , during which the terror organization engaged in murder , sexual violence , and looting , Hamas abducted some 250 people - many of whom remain hostage in Gaza . <h> Casting Israelis <p> In Captain America : Brave New World , PACBI took particular issue with the character Ruth Bat-Seraph , aka " Sabra . " Sabra was created by Marvel in the 1980s and has consistently been written as a Mossad agent . <p> Sabra is set to be played by Shira Haas , a famed Israeli actress known for her roles in Shtisel and Unorthodox . PACBI took issue with her casting - claiming Haas 's military service would only make Sabra 's character " more racist . " ACTRESS SHIRA HAAS attends a ' Light of Israel ' ceremony at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Jerusalem in 2021. ( credit : YONATAN SINDEL/FLASH90 ) <p> PACBI also described Israel 's intelligence agency Mossad as " criminal . " <p> In a similar stance against Snow White , PACBI decried the casting of famed Wonder Woman actress Gal Gadot as the Evil Queen , taking issue with Gadot 's past service in the Israeli military . <p> " We amplify the growing calls of Palestinian filmmakers ' to do everything humanly possible to stop and end complicity with this unspeakable horror ; and stand against working with production companies that are deeply complicit in dehumanizing Palestinians , or whitewashing and justifying Israel 's crimes against us , ' " The Palestinian Campaign for the Academic &amp; Cultural Boycott of Israel said in its petition against Marvel and Disney . " The decision of Marvel and Disney leadership to platform ambassadors to Israel 's settler-colonial regime makes both Captain America and Snow White complicit in violations of Palestinian human rights . "
