<h> The menorah is made up of fragments from Iranian ballistic missiles , drones from Yemen , and rockets from Lebanon . <p> A menorah made of missile fragments from Iran , Hamas , Hezbollah , and the Houthis displayed in Hostages ' Square on Saturday , December 28 , 2024. ( photo credit : Paulina Patimer ) <p> A menorah that was made out of missile fragments by numerous terrorist organizations that fired on Israel was installed and displayed at the Hostages Square in Tel Aviv on Saturday night . <p> " In each fragment - a story of survival . Pieces of Iranian ballistic missiles , fragments of UAVs from Yemen , and rockets from Lebanon have been transformed into a symbol of hope , light emerging from darkness , " the menorah 's inscription says . <p> The menorah was created by artist Eli Gross.A menorah made of missile fragments from Iran , Hamas , Hezbollah , and the Houthis displayed in Hostages ' Square on Saturday , December 28 , 2024. ( credit : Paulina Patimer ) <p> The Hostages Square also saw another protest by families of the remaining hostages in Gaza that night . A separate demonstration was also held in Haifa at the Carmel Center around the same time , and clashes with police were reported at a demonstration in Jerusalem 's Paris Square . <p> The remaining hostages have been held captive in Gaza for 449 days as of Saturday . Einav Zengauker speaks at a demonstration calling on the Israeli government to accept a hostage release deal . Her son , Matan , has been held captive in Gaza for 449 days as of December 28 , 2024. ( credit : AVSHALOM SASSONI/MAARIV ) <p> The demonstration at Hostages ' Square also saw candle lighting for the holiday 's fourth night . <p> At the Tel Aviv protest , Einav Zangauker , whose son Matan is being held captive in Gaza , attacked Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , accusing him of sabotaging a hostage release deal . <p> " Today , on the fourth night of Hanukkah , " she stated , " the negotiations for the deal are at a crucial point . A comprehensive deal can be reached , but Netanyahu refuses to end the war for criminal reasons . While he is telling everyone to be quiet , he is running to torpedo the deal in interviews and media briefings , " she continued . <p> " He has no intention of ending the war , again introducing new conditions just before the deal is closed and introducing the spin of the hostage lists . Anyone who invents a new excuse to prevent a deal each time is passing a death sentence on the hostages . <p> " He is afraid of Ben-Gvir and Smotrich and refuses to end the war , in complete contradiction to Israeli interests . Netanyahu and Israel Katz are sitting in heated rooms and bragging about continuing the war while Matan and the other hostages are freezing and rotting in tunnels . The blood is on your hands . " <p> Yehuda Cohen , the father of kidnapped soldier Nimrod Cohen , addressed US President-elect Donald Trump , saying : " Netanyahu is trying to deceive you . Ending the war and returning all the hostages is in the interest of the State of Israel . You may be the last person who can put pressure on Netanyahu . Do not compromise on a partial deal that is just a death sentence for the remaining hostages and will not bring about an end to the war . " <p> Democrats Party leader Yair Golan spoke at a demonstration on Kaplan Street the same night , stating , " This evil government abandons the kidnapped men and women to die in captivity in agony . This government sacrifices soldiers to die in Gaza . They do n't want to end the war because they fantasize about annexation and settlements in Gaza . " <h> Hostage Family Forum activities the day before <p> Demonstrations to raise awareness for a hostage release deal took place on Friday morning at Kibbutz Sde Boker in the Negev desert , where participants used their vehicles to create the hostages ' ribbon symbol using 100 cars - one representing each hostage still held in captivity . Participants in Friday morning 's demonstration in Sde Boker for a hostage deal form an SOS signal . ( credit : AVIV ATLAS , YAIR PALTI ) <p> Demonstrators line their cars up to create a hostage ribbon on Friday , December 27 , 2024 ( Video credit : Aviv Atlas , Yair Palti )
