<h> Gaza babies struggle with hypothermia as temperatures drop and war continues around them <p> At least four infants have died of hypothermia in recent weeks in the Gaza Strip , where hundreds of thousands of Palestinians displaced by nearly 15 months of war are huddled in tents along the rainy , windswept coast as winter arrives . <p> Jomaa al-Batran , 20 days old , was found with his head as " cold as ice " when his parents woke up Sunday , his father , Yehia , said . The baby 's twin brother , Ali , was moved to the intensive care unit of Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital . <p> Their father said the twins were born one month premature and spent just a day in the nursery at the hospital , which like other health centers in Gaza has been overwhelmed and is only partially functioning . <p> He said medics told their mother to keep the newborns warm , but it was impossible because they live in a tent and temperatures regularly drop below 10 degrees Celsius ( 50 degrees Fahrenheit ) at night . Deaths from hypothermia can occur at temperatures between 30 and 50 degrees Fahrenheit . <p> " We are eight people , and we only have four blankets , " al-Batran said as he cradled his son 's pale body . He described drops of dew seeping through the tent cover overnight . " Look at his color because the cold . Do you see how frozen he is ? " <p> Children , some of them barefoot , stood outdoors and watched him mourn . The shrouded infant was laid at the feet of an imam , barely larger than his shoes . After prayers , the imam took off his ankle-length coat and wrapped it around the father . <p> Israel launched an offensive on the Gaza Strip after declaring war against Hamas following the deadly attacks by the group 's militants on Oct. 7 , 2023 , that killed some 1,200 people . <p> Israel 's bombardment and ground invasion of Gaza has killed over 45,000 Palestinians , more than half of them women and children , according to Gaza 's Health Ministry , which does not distinguish between fighters and civilians in its count . <p> Aid groups have struggled to deliver food and supplies and say there are shortages of blankets , warm clothing and firewood . <p> Elsewhere , an Israeli strike on a hospital 's upper floor in Gaza City on Sunday killed at least seven people and wounded several others , according to the Civil Defense , first responders affiliated with the Hamas-run government . The Israeli military said it struck a Hamas control center inside the building , which it said was no longer serving as a hospital . <p> And a strike near Nuseirat in central Gaza killed eight and wounded more than 15 , according to officials at Al-Awda Hospital . <p> Meanwhile , Israel 's military said militants launched five projectiles from northern Gaza into Israel , the second time in two days , adding that two were intercepted and the rest likely fell in open areas . Rockets from northern Gaza had been rare in recent months as Israel 's military increased operations there .
