<p> SINGAPORE , Apr 2 : Meta is investigating unauthorised activity on Singapore Foreign Minister Vivian Balakrishnan 's Facebook page after a " like " from his account appeared on a controversial post on relocating pro-Palestine activists to Gaza , according to a media report on Wednesday . The Minister 's press secretary said a report had been filed with Meta over the unauthorised activity . " Meta is investigating , " the secretary was quoted by The Straits Times newspaper as saying . The account was found to have " liked " a Facebook post on March 13 by former Nominated Member of Parliament Calvin Cheng who proposed sending a group of activists to Gaza as long as they never returned . On Wednesday , Balakrishnan denied liking Cheng 's post . Balakrishnan also said he did not share Cheng 's views and that he had taken measures to " enhance account security " . Cheng in the March 13 post said that he would sponsor members of the local activist group ' Monday of Palestine Solidarity ' to relocate to Gaza . Although it is no longer listed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liked the post , as evidenced by a screen recording shared on Instagram . Tan Kiat How , Senior Minister of State for National Development and Digital Development and Information , had also " liked " the post . Tan later said he had done so accidentally , after ' Monday of Palestine Solidarity ' questioned him about it on one of his Instagram posts . He then " unliked " Cheng 's Facebook post . Meanwhile , Cheng said he would take legal action on defamatory statements against him . These include statements by former Singapore Democratic Party chairman Jufrie Mahmood , Reform Party secretary-general Kenneth Jeyaretnam and online publication The Online Citizen . The statements accuse Cheng of being an Islamophobe , with Jufrie filing a police report on March 28 , describing Cheng as a " danger to our precious racial and religious harmony " . In the police report , it is alleged that Cheng 's Facebook post made a " threat on the lives of anyone that is against the ongoing genocide " , adding that a one-way trip to Gaza would imply instant death @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ response to the actions of the activists from the ' Monday of Palestine Solidarity ' group and specifically aimed at those who showed up at Law and Home Affairs Minister K Shanmugam 's meet-the-people session on March 12 . ( PTI )
