<p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Saturday said that Israel has " no choice " but to continue its military campaign in Gaza . He pledged to press ahead until Hamas is destroyed , the hostages are freed , and the region no longer poses a threat.Netanyahu has been facing pressure , with frustration growing among the families of Israeli hostages , reservist soldiers , and retired veterans . Demonstrations have become more frequent , calling on the government to secure the release of the remaining 59 hostages held by Hamas.Despite these calls , Netanyahu insisted : " I believe we can bring our hostages home without surrendering to Hamas 's dictates . We are at a critical stage of the campaign , and at this point , we need patience and determination to win . " <p> In a televised statement on Saturday , Netanyahu said he would not retreat from his commitment to preventing Iran from obtaining weapons of mass destruction . " I 'm committed to preventing Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons . I will not give up on this , I will not let go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ -- not even by a millimetre , " he said.90 Palestinians killed in 48 hours Netanyahu 's remarks came after reports from Gaza 's health ministry said more than 90 Palestinians had been killed in 48 hours of Israeli airstrikes . Many of the victims were women and children . Among the dead were 15 people killed overnight , including those in a tent in the so-called " humanitarian zone " of Muwasi in Khan Younis . Four others , including a mother and her daughter , were killed in Rafah.In central Gaza , a separate airstrike west of Nuseirat killed one civilian , according to Al-Awda Hospital.The Israeli military claimed it had killed more than 40 militants over the weekend , while confirming the death of one soldier in northern Gaza -- the first since the war resumed on March 18 . Israel has tightened its blockade on Gaza for the past six weeks , halting the entry of food and essential goods . Aid agencies say the territory is facing a hunger crisis . The UN warned that thousands of children are becoming malnourished and most people are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stretching beyond six months , began with Hamas-led attacks on southern Israel on October 7. 2023 , which killed around 1,200 people and led to the abduction of 251 . While many hostages have since been released , Hamas is still holding 59 , of whom 24 are believed to be alive.Israel 's military response has killed more than 51,000 Palestinians , according to Gaza health officials , and displaced around 90% of the population . Entire neighbourhoods lie in ruins , and most of Gaza 's food production has been wiped out . <h> About the Author <p> At TOI World Desk , our dedicated team of seasoned journalists and passionate writers tirelessly sifts through the vast tapestry of global events to bring you the latest news and diverse perspectives round the clock . With an unwavering commitment to accuracy , depth , and timeliness , we strive to keep you informed about the ever-evolving world , delivering a nuanced understanding of international affairs to our readers . Join us on a journey across continents as we unravel the stories that shape our interconnected world .
