<h> Editorial : People 's Pope <p> Pope Francis , who passed away on Easter Monday , was truly a people 's Pope , lending his voice to the marginalised and the poor . He was the spiritual guide to the 1.3 billion faithful around the world with the heart of a reformer who ushered in internal changes in the catholic church to make it more inclusive . The first Latin American pontiff , Mario Bergoglio was , in many ways , the most unconventional Pope of modern times . From the time he took over as Pope in 2013 , he embodied humility , compassion and a quiet but persistent defiance of the Vatican 's ossified traditions . He rejected papal opulence and chose the name " Francis " after the saint of the poor . His papacy would be remembered for focusing on mercy over rigid judgment , inclusion over exclusion and the marginalised over the powerful . He will be remembered as the pope who washed the feet of prisoners , lived in a guesthouse instead of the Apostolic Palace , and embraced LGBTQ+ Catholics , migrants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us that true power lies in humility . His call for a " Church of the poor , for the poor " will resonate for generations . His papacy signalled a new vision for the Church , one that would embrace the outcast and the marginalised . Pope Francis always stood for the disenfranchised and the disempowered , travelling around the world to urge peace , justice and reconciliation . In fact , his last address on Easter Sunday called for disarmament and lamented the " deplorable humanitarian situation " in Gaza and the plight of immigrants , and called for a cease-fire and release of hostages . <p> Francis rose from modest means in Argentina to become the first Latin American pontiff and clashed with traditionalists in his push for a more inclusive Roman Catholic Church . He was also the first Pope to steadfastly support the efforts on climate change and the rights of LGBT community . He used his papacy to help inspire global efforts to curb greenhouse gas emissions . He took significant measures to address the church 's sexual abuse crisis . True to his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left a will asking that his tomb be " simple , without particular decoration . " Francis framed climate change as a spiritual issue , emphasising the connections between global warming , poverty and social upheaval . Before Pope Francis , climate change was seen either as a political issue or a scientific issue . While his predecessors John Paul II and Benedict XVI believed in the concentration of authority in Rome , Francis emphasised a decentralised approach . The Pope actively sought to forge ties with the Islamic world . For his supporters , decentralisation brought the prospect of change that they had thirsted for over decades . Throughout his 12-year papacy , Francis was a change agent , having inherited a Vatican in disarray in 2013 after the stunning resignation of his predecessor , Benedict XVI , a standard-bearer of Roman Catholic conservatism .
