<h> Pope Francis : Friend Of The Marginalized <p> Much will be written about Pope Francis , but here is my take on the life of this bravest Christian prophet of the 21st century . I wish I could have met him in person and also that he would come to Shillong . The only Pope who made it to Shillong was Pope John Paul II in 1986 . Such visits by pontiffs were rare and Pope 's Francis ' visit would have been the rarest of all . Encounter with Latin Theologians : To begin with , I encountered the theological giants of Latin America during my studies in Bishop 's College Kolkata . Thinkers like Gustavo Gutierrez and Juan Luis Segundo , have played a major role in shaping my understanding of the Bible in relation to the society beyond the Church walls . The liberation theology which originated in Latin America in the late 1960s was the result of the oppression by the ruling class on ordinary people . Liberation theology began by questioning the existence of the God of truth and righteousness in the light of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the father of Liberation Theology said , " the starting point of Liberation Theology is commitment to the poor , the " non-person . " Thus , Liberation Theology laid strong emphasis on justice for the poor and marginalized and considers such theology as the basis approaching the problem of societies . Pope Francis and Liberation : Pope Francis , born Jorge Mario Bergoglio on December 17 , 1936 , in Buenos Aires , Argentina , has a rich theological background that is influenced by his experiences in diverse and often challenging socio-political environments . While Pope Francis had shown his leaning towards Liberation Theology and its emphasis on social justice and the preferential option for the poor , he was also critical of some aspects of it and remained cautious about Marxist interpretations of it . According to Thomas Rees , " Pope Francis is uncomfortable with ideologies leaning to the left or the right . He was critical of certain forms of Liberation Theology because they incorporated Marxist analysis and supported violent revolution . He felt that these theologians were imposing their ideas on the poor rather than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even more critical of libertarian capitalism , which blindly claims that all boats would rise with the tide of economic growth , because the people he met in the slums of Buenos Aires were in fact drowning without boats . " His pastoral work in Buenos Aires brought him into direct contact with the struggles of the urban poor , which shaped his understanding of justice , mercy and community . During the meeting with Europe 's Jesuit editors in 2022 , Pope Francis said , " Realities are more important than ideas " . Thus he laid emphasis on human realities rather than on abstract ideas . Pope Francis believed in face to face engagement with people . For him it was not enough to merely communicate ideas but to communicate ideas that come from experience . Moreover , ideas are to be discussed . Discussion is a good thing , but for him it was not enough . It is human reality that is to be discerned . Discernment is what really counts ... Ideas are discussed , reality is discerned . Discernment is the charism of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ humanitarian crises which resulted from the genocide in Gaza had deeply pained the Pope . He was outspoken in his criticism of the Israeli military 's harsh tactics and had urged for an investigation into whether Israel 's war amounted to genocide ? He had called for a ceasefire between Israel and the Hamas militant group and also urged Hamas to release the Israeli hostages it was holding while condemning growing global anti-semitism . Meghalaya 's Workers and Pope Francis : In Meghalaya , workers are the most exploited and oppressed section . The State is known for its low wages and income disparity , with poverty sharply on the rise . Between 2013 and 2016 , Thma U Rangli Juki ( TUR ) spearheaded a workers ' rights campaign in the State , highlighting the problems faced by workers in both formal sectors , such as government and private institutions , and informal sectors . The campaign began with the distribution of pamphlets that enlightened workers about their basic rights and the laws protecting their livelihoods and right to work . Several groups of workers responded to this initiative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' groups . Among those who came forward to unionize were the workers from Nazareth Hospital , private security guards , street vendors and hawkers , the long-standing casual workers of MeECL , a few private school/college teachers etc . Meghalaya had never experienced such mobilization before . The fear workers had of confronting their employers was overwhelming and often overshadowed their existential struggles . Many workers were apprehensive about facing their employers and the potential consequences of doing so . During this critical moment , Pope Francis assumed the papacy , and his inspiring message to workers around the world became a rallying point for the workers in Meghalaya . His words encouraged them to cast aside their fears , doubts and anxieties ; empowering them to confront their employers and advocate for their rights . Pope Francis clearly stated that , " every worker , within the formal system of salaried employment or outside it , should have the right to decent remuneration , to social security and to a pension . Among you here are waste-collectors , recyclers , peddlers , seamstresses or tailors , artisans , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ previously abandoned enterprises , members of all kinds of cooperatives and workers in grass-roots jobs who are excluded from labour rights , who are denied the possibility of unionizing , whose income is neither adequate nor stable . Today I want to join my voice to yours and support you in your struggle . " This message resonated deeply with the workers of Meghalaya , motivating them to stand up for their dignity and respect at the workplace . Laudato si ' and Hynniewtrep Wisdom : For every indigenous community ( Adivasi/Tribal ) environment is sacrosanct and is intrinsic to life . This relation is expressed in folklores , songs and manifested through cultures and dances . From West Papua to Chattisgarh to Khasi-Jaintia and Garo Hills in Meghalaya , the indigenous people have a shared belief , practices and strong bonding with the entire ecological system . The Hynniewtrep people of Khasi-Jaintia Hills have a deep respect for nature and possess traditional practices aimed at preserving the environment , for example , the " law kyntang " and " law shnong " or commons . The indigenous wisdom of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creation . The environment is relational and is inclusive of land , people , animals , rivers , trees , flora and fauna , sea and sky etc . The negation of one means the negation of others . The concept of interdependence gives people a god-like character such as love , compassion , co-operation , sharing and solidarity . Pope Francis ' encyclical entitled , Laudato si ' marked a shift towards " integral ecology , " which acknowledges the interconnectedness of environmental , social , and spiritual issues . During the workshop entitled Indigenous Peoples ' Knowledge and Sciences held in Vatican , Pope Francis encouraged a closer collaboration between Indigenous and scientific knowledge to address climate change , the loss of biodiversity , and threats to food and health security facing the world today . He laid emphasis on reciprocal listening : " Listening to indigenous peoples in order to learn from their wisdom and from their lifestyles , and at the same time listening to scientists , in order to benefit from their research . " His sharp call was that , " all of us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saving our common home and to fostering intergenerational solidarity in order to preserve the life of future generations , rather than wasting resources and aggravating inequality , exploitation , and destruction " . Who Am I to Judge ? Pope Francis was the voice of compassion and inclusivity , particularly for marginalized communities such as the LGBTQ+ individuals and refugees striving for a better life . His unwavering support is deeply rooted in the teachings of the Bible , which advocate for love , acceptance , empathy and mercy . He even questioned those who claim to be Christian , but behave in an ungodly manner . He pungently remarked , " It is hypocrisy to call yourself a Christian and chase away a refugee or someone seeking help , someone who is hungry or thirsty , toss out someone who is in need of help . If I say I am a Christian , but do these things , I am a hypocrite " . In a world fraught with prejudice , hate and fear , Pope Francis reminds us of the sanctity of every human life , emphasizing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . His famous phrase , " Who am I to judge ? " reflects a profound understanding of human dignity and the complexity of individual journeys . This message echoes the core Christian principle that all people are deserving of respect and compassion , regardless of their backgrounds or identities . While we mourn and await the election of the new Pope , let us learn and live up to the teachings of this great Pope . " Leit suk sha Dwar U Blei " ( Travel well to the courtyards of the Lord ) , Papa Francis . <h> Follow us <h> About Us <p> The Shillong Times first appeared as a tabloid weekly on 10th August 1945 under the editorship of Late Sudhindra Bhusan Chaudhuri . In 1958 it was converted to a Daily . Owing to financial constraints , within six months it reverted back to a weekly .
