<p> GAZA , Apr 26 : At least 21 Palestinians were killed on Friday in Israeli airstrikes across the Gaza Strip , according to Gaza 's civil defence authorities . Mahmoud Basal , spokesperson for the civil defence , reported that nine people were killed and several others injured when Israeli aircraft struck a house east of al-Fakhari town , southeast of Khan Younis in southern Gaza . Additional airstrikes were reported in Gaza City and other areas around Khan Younis , Basal added . The Israeli army has not issued a comment regarding these incidents . In Gaza City , heavy clashes erupted between Palestinian armed factions and Israeli forces in the Shuja'iyya and Tuffah neighbourhoods . The confrontations were accompanied by intense Israeli air and artillery bombardments , as well as smoke shells . Multiple explosions were heard , with thick plumes of smoke rising over the area , according to Palestinian sources . In a statement on Friday , Israeli army spokesperson Avichay Adraee said that troops from the 401st Brigade of the 252nd Division had been operating in the area for several weeks , targeting " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had killed the members of a Palestinian cell responsible for firing an anti-tank missile from a building . No Israeli casualties were reported in that incident . Meanwhile , in southern Gaza , six Israeli soldiers were wounded during what was described as a " security incident " , with one in serious condition , according to Israel 's state-owned Kan TV . Adraee confirmed that a reservist from the 5250th Battalion was seriously wounded during clashes in the southern Gaza Strip . Abu Obeida , spokesperson for the al-Qassam Brigades , the military wing of Hamas , said in a separate statement that their fighters carried out ambushes and targeted Israeli troops . Since Israel resumed its intensified military campaign on March 18 , at least 2,062 Palestinians have been killed and 5,375 injured , bringing the overall death toll in Gaza since the war began in October 2023 to 51,439 , with a total of 117,416 people injured , according to health authorities in Gaza . ( UNI )
