<h> Make Pak Army pay a price <p> Tarun Upadhyay The nation is aghast and deeply shocked by the killing of 26 tourists in Kashmir on April 22 , 2025 . It was the first major massacre in Jammu and Kashmir after massacre of 36 Sikhs by terrorists in Chittsinghpura , Anantnag in 2000 What has intensified the pain is the sight of bullet-ridden bodies lying on the ground , at a time when people had begun to believe that terrorism was a thing of the past in Kashmir . This belief was a fundamental mistake-and a costly one . For some nations , terrorism is a deliberate State strategy . Unless the very source that nurtures it is dismantled , it can not be eradicated . Many countries continue to use terrorism as a tool of " strategic depth , " often for nefarious purposes . In India 's case , the progenitor of terrorism is Pakistan ; for Israel , it is Iran . Surrounded by hostile nations , Israel developed a top-tier anti-terrorism grid and carried out numerous high-impact operations against terror threats . Yet , even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Its response was swift and forceful , virtually eliminating Hamas-but the underlying truth remains : Israel had long lived with the imminent danger and was , to some extent , prepared for it . In India , a significant portion of the population had begun to believe that the very idea of danger in Kashmir was a thing of the past . Alarmingly , even the security establishment appeared to have subscribed to this belief . It seems they assumed that terrorists would not target tourists . This assumption was likely grounded in the fact that terrorists had n't attacked tourists in the past . Anticipating a terrorist 's response based solely on past behavior is a flawed strategy-Israel learned this the hard way . Over the past four years , terrorists have steadily shifted the arc of violence towards Jammu . More than 50 security personnel have been killed on this side of the Pir Panjal range during this period Gradually , attention and focus turned toward Jammu . In hindsight , it 's clear that the terrorists had crafted a meticulous and calculated plan : shift the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is lowered and the State is most vulnerable . While it can be argued that it 's nearly impossible to prevent every terrorist attack , a careful analysis of the evolving pattern in Jammu-where the arc of attacks kept shifting-should have signaled the possibility of a major strike in Kashmir . India has much to learn from Israel 's counterterrorism strategy . Despite being a small country , Israel has relentlessly carried out covert operations against Iran to prevent it from developing nuclear weapons . It killed Top Iranian nuclear scientist Mohsen Fakhrizadeh , repeatedly sabotaged its nuclear facilities and eliminated key individuals involved in their development . Its allies and proxies have also been kept on edge and neutralized-such as killings of Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh in Tehran and Hezbollah commander Hassan Nasrallah in Lebanon . It reflects Israel 's strategic resolve and its capacity to contain Iran 's influence , recognizing that a nuclear-armed Iran would severely threaten the regional security balance . India could adopt a similar approach in dealing with Pakistan to take out terrorists leadership . It must ensure that Pakistan military establishment faces continuous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pakistani army should be kept on edge , uncertain about when and where the next Indian response might come . Even if Pakistan manages to execute sporadic attacks , it should remain under constant threat of Indian retaliation-both overt and covert . The deeply disturbing Pahalgam attack , while tragic , presents a crucial opportunity for India to act decisively on a more assertive strategic doctrine . The timing is favorable . The Pakistani Army , stretched thin and significantly weakened , is under immense pressure within its own borders . The institution 's credibility has taken a major hit , especially after the jailing of former Prime Minister Imran Khan , who openly challenges its authority . Just two years ago , angry protesters torched the residence of the IV Corps Commander in Lahore-an unprecedented act of defiance . Public anger is mounting against the Pakistan Army for its suppression of democracy and dissent . General Asim Munir , the country 's first openly Islamist Army Chief , is leaning on religious rhetoric in a bid to regain lost legitimacy and restore the army 's stature . His recent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Muslims ) belong to a superior ideology -- Kashmir is our jugular vein " -should be viewed in this context . Munir 's invocation of religion comes at a time when a significant portion of Pakistan 's population is resistant to returning to the era of General Zia-ul-Haq 's Islamization . The people are beginning to question the role of religious clerics , express wariness over the Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan ( TTP ) , and are increasingly critical of ongoing sectarian violence . It 's no more viewed as Peoples ' Army . This chasm should be worked to India 's advantage . India should strike targets that serve as proxies for the Pakistani military . It would inevitably provoke a backlash from these very terrorist groups against the military establishment itself . Such a strategy would erode the military 's control and influence over these groups . It will gradually weaken its capabilities and leverage . Sustained pressure of this nature would keep the military distracted and embattled , creating space for the civilian government to assert itself . Not viewed favorably by the people , with enough political momentum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's misadventures . Former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif has publicly admitted he was unaware of General Musharraf 's Kargil operation . India , leveraging its growing economic strength and international stature , should work towards diplomatically isolating Pakistan . This would further exacerbate Pakistan 's economic vulnerabilities and compound internal pressures , accelerating the decline of its military-dominated power structure . The Pakistan Army may find it increasingly difficult to contend with a complex matrix of challenges : an intensified Indian military presence along the border coupled with the looming threat of strikes , hostile relations on frontiers with Iran and Afghanistan , the Balochistan Liberation Army ( BLA ) undermining its authority and the Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan ( TTP ) launching frequent attacks on military posts in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa . This may or could lead to implosion of Pak military . The harsh reality is that Pakistan is not Gaza . Israel managed its response in Gaza by weakening Iran and to that Hamas could no longer launch attacks from there . Similarly , India must weaken Pakistan 's military establishment to prevent incidents like the Pahalgam attack from happening again .
