<p> ISLAMABAD - Pakistan People 's Party ( PPP ) yesterday pledged continued support to Palestine cause - marking one year since the Israel launched attacks . <p> On the occasion of Palestine Solidarity Day , PPP leaders , including Senator Sherry Rehman , Chairperson of the Benazir Income Support Program ( BISP ) Senator Rubina Khalid , and PPP Secretary General Syed Nayyar Hussain Bukhari , expressed their unwavering support for the Palestinian people . <p> PPP Vice President Senator Sherry Rehman said the All Parties Conference held earlier in the day was a reaffirmation of Pakistan 's long-standing support and solidarity with the Palestinian people . " The entire nation is united today to raise its voice against Israeli oppression , " she added . She highlighted that it had been one year since Israel 's aggressive military actions and war frenzy began on October 7 , 2023 . She noted that over the past year , more than 42,000 Palestinians had been killed , including over 16,000 children . The PPP leader said more than 100,000 people had been injured , and around 2.3 million people , comprising over 90% of Gaza 's population , had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Gaza 's infrastructure , homes , economy , agricultural lands , and fishing industry . She condemned Israel for limiting aid supplies to Gaza , exacerbating the humanitarian crisis by creating shortages of food and medical supplies . " One year later , on October 7 , 2024 , Israel is not only at war with Palestine but also engaged in direct conflicts with Lebanon , Iran , Syria , and Yemen , " the lawmaker said . She called on the global community to intervene and stop Israel 's aggressive actions , which she described as a significant threat to peace in the Middle East and globally . PPP leader Senator Rubina Khalid , Chairperson of the Benazir Income Support Programme ( BISP ) , also expressed solidarity with the Palestinian cause , stressing that the All Parties Conference held in Islamabad marked a year of Israeli brutality and human rights violations . " Our support for Palestine remains steadfast , " she said , adding that the situation was not just a Palestinian issue but a matter of global concern for humanity . She urged the international @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against innocent children , women , and the elderly , calling the systematic genocide a violation of international human rights laws . <p> PPP Secretary General Syed Nayyar Hussain Bukhari echoed similar sentiments , emphasizing that the All Parties Conference symbolized the unity of the Pakistani nation in supporting the Palestinians . He strongly condemned Israel 's barbaric actions , which had resulted in the deaths of thousands , including children , and the displacement of large parts of the Palestinian population . " The rightful owners of the land of Palestine have been forced out , " Bukhari said , decrying Israel 's ongoing bombings and denial of medical and food supplies to the wounded . Bukhari urged international human rights organizations to step up and halt the atrocities against the Palestinian people , calling on the United Nations to play an effective role in ending the violence and ensuring lasting peace .
