@@1812207 <p> The international media are awash with reports that former Egyptian dictator , Hosni Mubarak , may have passed on at the hospital where he was moved after his health deteriorated . Though no official confirmation has been obtained , hospital officials at the hospital are of the opinion that Mubarak " does not look good to come back to life " from his present state of coma . There is a feeling of indifference in the streets of Cairo and most of Egypt as news of Mubarak 's coma spreads to towns and villages . However , the highest military council , has said this Wednesday morning that Mubarak is not dead , declaring that he only went into come and medics are in the process of reviving him . The 84 year old ruler was sentenced to life jail last month . <p> See how the international media are reporting Mubarak belowThe TelegraphHosni Mubarak : A Dictator Who Ruled Egypt For Three Decades Egypt 's Hosni Mubarak , who was critically ill on Wednesday after suffering a stroke in prison , enjoyed near absolute power for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year . The 84-year-old was transferred to a hospital from the prison where he had been held since he was jailed for life earlier this month for his part in the deaths of protesters seeking to overthrow his regime . Medical and military sources said he was in a coma on life support , denying an earlier report by the official MENA news agency that he was clinically dead . The 84-year-old 's spectacular fall from grace sent shock waves across the Middle East and beyond when he announced his resignation on February 11 , 2011 after an 18-day popular revolt . The military took power after his resignation . Until anti-government protests erupted on January 25 , Mubarak seemed untouchable as president of the most populous nation in the Arab world , backed by the United States and the military , from whose ranks he had emerged . He had survived 10 attempts on his life and his health has long been a subject of speculation . But in the end , it was the people who brought down Egypt 's latter-day pharaoh . On trial for his life , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sentenced to life in jail and taken to Tora prison on Cairo 's outskirts , where his health has deteriorated , with doctors defibrillating him twice on June 11 . Mubarak rose to power unexpectedly , when then President Anwar Sadat , who made history by signing a peace deal with Israel , was gunned down by Islamist militants on October 6 , 1981 at a military parade in Cairo . Mubarak took office a week later and ruled without interruption until last year . Islamic fundamentalist groups , including Al-Jihad , Gamaa Islamiyya and Talaeh al-Fatah , were responsible for most of the attempts on Mubarak 's life . The first came in 1993 , a year after Islamists launched a violent campaign to topple the secular government , when a bid to fire rockets at Mubarak 's plush Cairo residence was foiled . Later attempts included a plot to car-bomb the presidential motorcade in Cairo . In 1995 , militants opened fire on the presidential motorcade in Addis Ababa , a year after they tried to kill Mubarak with explosives as he was due to meet Libyan leader Moamer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mubarak was slightly wounded when a man with no apparent links to any Islamic group stabbed him in Port Said . With his jet black hair and aquiline nose , Mubarak had a reputation for vigour and was once known to play squash almost daily . But that was dented in 2003 when he fainted while addressing parliament . Officials blamed his collapse on a cold and the fact that he had been fasting during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan . In 2004 , he underwent surgery in Germany for a slipped disc , and he returned to Germany in March 2010 for the removal of his gall bladder and a growth on the small intestine . Rumours that he had died under the knife were dispelled when state television showed him recovering . Mubarak 's health was usually a taboo subject in Egypt and the father of two , whose wife Suzanne is half Welsh , kept his private life a carefully guarded secret . In 2007 , speculation about his health snowballed to the extent that Mubarak made an unscheduled public appearance to lay rumours to rest . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nile Delta village of Menufiyah . He rose through the ranks of the air force and fought in repeated wars with Israel , to claim hero status before supporting Sadat in pursuing peace with the Jewish state in 1979 . Throughout his years in power , he maintained the unpopular policy of peace with Israel and accommodation with the West that cost Sadat his life . His government was the frequent target of domestic opposition -- ranging from the Muslim Brotherhood to secular and liberal dissidents . But the regime quashed militant groups , which carried out attacks in the 1980s , 1990s and , more recently , in 2004 and 2006 , when tourist resorts were targeted . His ties with the United States and Israel drew criticism from across the region , especially during the 2006 Israeli war in Lebanon and Israel 's Gaza offensive in 2008-2009 . Domestic opponents accused Washington of turning a blind eye to human rights abuses , corruption and the Mubarak regime 's failure to push ahead with badly needed reforms . <p> BBCOusted Egyptian Leader Hosni Mubarak ' Close To Death'Former Egyptian President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ death , reports from Cairo suggest . He is said to have had a stroke and was moved from prison to an army hospital , where he is on life support . Initial reports said he was " clinically dead " . It comes amid protests over disputed presidential election results and new powers for the ruling military . Mubarak , 84 , was ousted in last year 's uprising , and jailed for life for his role in the death of protesters . There have been frequent reports since then that his health has deteriorated , many of which have proved wrong . Through the night , supporters and opponents gathered outside the Maadi military hospital , where the former president is being treated . Reports that he was clinically dead have been categorically denied by the ruling military council , the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces ( Scaf ) . <p> HindustanTimesHosni Mubarak In Coma After Stroke : Sources Egypt 's Hosni Mubarak was on life support at a Cairo hospital after suffering a stroke in prison , medical and military sources told AFP Tuesday , denying reports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the ousted leader came against the backdrop of new tension in the country , with both candidates in a presidential vote claiming victory and the ruling military claiming sweeping new powers . Mubarak " is not clinically dead , " a medical source told AFP . " He is in a coma and the doctors are trying to revive him . " " He has been placed on an artificial respirator , " the source added , in an account that was confirmed by a member of Egypt 's ruling military council , who spoke to AFP on condition of anonymity . Egypt 's state news agency MENA had earlier reported that the ousted strongman , 84 , had been declared clinically dead after suffering a stroke in prison and being transferred to hospital . " Hosni Mubarak is clinically dead , " the official news agency reported . " Medical sources told MENA his heart had stopped beating and did not respond to defibrillation . " The report was carried on Egyptian state television , which ran archive footage of the former leader , with a news presenter saying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the country , MENA , has announced it . " Mubarak had been taken to a Cairo prison on June 2 , after a court handed down a life sentence against him over his involvement in the death of protesters during the 2011 uprising that pushed him from power . His health deteriorated after the transfer , with doctors defibrillating him twice earlier this month , and reports saying he was suffering from bouts of depression , high blood pressure and shortness of breath . His family , including his sons Gamal and Alaa , who are being held on corruption charges , had formally requested Mubarak be transferred to hospital . But such a move was seen as likely to infuriate Egyptians already angered that Mubarak escaped a death sentence and a court acquitted senior security officials from his regime . The news of his failing health came against a backdrop of renewed tension over Egypt 's difficult transition , with both candidates in a key presidential vote that wrapped up on Sunday claiming victory in the poll . The Muslim Brotherhood said their candidate Mohammed Mursi had won @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and on Tuesday provided what they said were certified copies of ballot tallies to bolster their claims . But Mursi 's rival Ahmed Shafiq , Mubarak 's last prime minister , has also claimed a victory , with his campaign accusing the Brotherhood of issuing false figures and insisting official results scheduled Thursday will declare him president . Even as the Brotherhood declared their victory , they seemed set on a collision course with the ruling military council , which issued a constitutional declaration Sunday night claiming sweeping powers . The document said the council would retake legislative powers from the Islamist-dominated parliament after the country 's constitutional court on Thursday ordered the body dissolved . And it grants the council veto power over the drafting of a permanent constitution , angering activists who denounced the declaration and an earlier order giving the army power to arrest civilians , as a " coup . " The Brotherhood also rejected the declaration , insisting the parliament retains legislative power , and pledging to participate in " popular activities " against it . On Tuesday night , they joined a mass demonstration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ celebrating Mursi 's win as much as denouncing the military move . The demonstrators were still in the square as the conflicting details of Mubarak 's condition filtered in . " It 's divine retribution , " said Saber Amr , a teacher . " God does n't forgive those who do wrong to their people . God does n't forgive those who kill innocents . " Nearby , Abdel Mottaleb , a Brotherhood supporter offered a more conciliatory tone . " We are Muslims . We respect the dead regardless , " he said . " God will judge him . " 
