@@118360464 <h> Trump picks another in-law for key adviser role <p> Announcing the appointment on social media , Trump said Mr Boulos was " instrumental in building tremendous new coalitions with the Arab American community " . <p> On the campaign trail , Mr Boulos appealed to Arab American and Muslim voters by promising them that Trump would restore peace in the Middle East . <p> US President-elect Donald Trump/SCREENRGAB <p> Donald Trump has named his daughter Tiffany 's father-in-law , Massad Boulos , as an adviser on Arab and Middle Eastern affairs . <p> The Lebanese American businessman is the second in-law to be offered a position in the incoming administration , after Trump picked Charles Kushner , his daughter Ivanka 's father-in-law , to serve as ambassador to France . <p> Mr Boulos played a key unofficial role in the Trump campaign , helping him court Arab American and Muslim voters as many of them grew frustrated with the Biden administration over the Israel-Gaza war . <p> Announcing the appointment on social media , Trump said Mr Boulos was " instrumental in building tremendous new coalitions with the Arab American community " . <p> " He has been a longtime proponent of Republican and Conservative values , " Trump said on Truth Social , adding that Mr Boulos was an " asset " to his campaign . <p> On the campaign trail , Mr Boulos appealed to Arab American and Muslim voters by promising them that Trump would restore peace in the Middle East . <p> His efforts exploited a big vulnerability for the Harris campaign , who struggled to win support from Arab and Muslim Americans due to US support of Israel during the ongoing Israel-Gaza war . <p> " Those massacres would not have happened if there was a strong president at the White House , " Mr Boulos told Trump supporters in Arizona earlier this year , referring to the mounting civilian deaths in Gaza . " The entire war would n't have happened . " <p> Mr Boulos played a key unofficial role in the Trump campaign , helping him court Arab American and Muslim voters/SCREENGRAB <p> It is unclear how Mr Boulos intends to leverage his advisory role . Born in Lebanon , he is known to have forged ties with several political factions in his birth country . <p> He told the Associated Press in June that he is a " friend " of Sleiman Frangieh , a Christian Lebanese politician who is allied with the Shia Muslim political party and militant group Hezbollah . <p> Mr Boulos has already served as something of an informal liaison between Trump and Middle Eastern leaders , the New York Times reported . <p> He is also reported to have met Mahmoud Abbas , the leader of the Palestinian Authority , on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly in September . <p> At that meeting , Mr Boulos reportedly conveyed Trump 's desire to end the Israel-Gaza war and other conflicts around the world . <p> Mr Boulos moved to Texas as a teenager , according to a profile of him in the New Arab , where he attended the University of Houston and obtained a law degree . <p> He has since worked at his family 's business -- a Nigeria-based billion-dollar company that specialises in the distribution of motor vehicles and equipment across West Africa . <p> Unlike some of Trump 's other appointments , Mr Boulos ' advisory role does not require confirmation by the US Senate . 
@@118373779 <h> Hezbollah claims first attack on Israeli position since truce <p> Smoke rises during Israeli shelling in southern Lebanon 's plain of Marjayoun , days after a ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah took effect , on November 30 , 2024 . ( Photo by AFP ) <p> Hezbollah on Monday claimed an attack on an Israeli position , its first since a fragile ceasefire in the war in Lebanon took effect last week . <p> The ceasefire , which came into force on Wednesday , seeks to end a war that has killed thousands in Lebanon and sparked mass displacements in both Lebanon and Israel . <p> While the ceasefire had largely brought fighting to a halt , Israel has launched strikes against targets it says were violating the truce . <p> Earlier Monday , Lebanon accused Israel of violating the truce , though Israel hit back to insist it was enforcing the agreement by responding to the militant group 's violations . <p> The fighting escalated after Israel moved its focus from Gaza to Lebanon in September to secure its northern border from Hezbollah attacks , dealing the Iran-backed Shiite Muslim movement a sequence of stunning blows . <p> " The aggressive actions carried out by Israeli occupation forces ... represent a flagrant violation of the terms of the ceasefire agreement , " said Lebanon 's powerful parliament speaker Nabih Berri , who helped mediate the truce on behalf of ally Hezbollah . <p> On Monday , Hezbollah claimed for the first time since the truce began an attack on an Israeli position in Kfar Shouba , which is located in a disputed territory on the Lebanon-Israel border . <p> The Israeli army said that Hezbollah launched two projectiles Monday towards the area of Har Dov , Israel 's term for the disputed Shebaa Farms . <h> - ' Respect the ceasefire ' - <p> Also Monday , French Foreign Minister Jean-Noel Barrot told Saar in a call of " the need for all sides to respect the ceasefire in Lebanon " , the foreign ministry said . <p> " We hear claims that Israel is violating the ceasefire understandings in Lebanon . On the contrary ! Israel is enforcing them in response to Hezbollah 's violations , which demand immediate action , " Saar said in a statement . <p> He also said Hezbollah had attempted to move weapons in southern Lebanon and their presence " south of the Litani river is the most basic violation of the understandings " . <p> Under the deal , Hezbollah must withdraw its fighters from areas south of the river , and dismantle its military infrastructure in the south . <p> As part of the agreement , the Lebanese army and United Nations peacekeepers will deploy in southern Lebanon as the Israeli army withdraws over a period of 60 days . <h> - ' Threats ' - <p> Under the truce , a committee involving France , UN peacekeepers , Israel , Lebanon and chaired by the United States is tasked with maintaining communication between various parties and ensuring violations are identified and dealt with to avoid any escalation . <p> " We ask the technical committee formed to monitor the implementation of this agreement where it stands on ongoing violations ... that have exceeded 54 breaches , " Berri added , urging it to " oblige Israel to stop its violations and withdraw from territories it occupies " . <p> Israel escalated its campaign against Hezbollah in late September after nearly a year of cross-border exchanges launched by the militant group in support of its Palestinian ally Hamas and its October 7 , 2023 attack on Israel . <p> Israel 's army said on Monday it struck Hezbollah targets in south Lebanon to thwart what it says are " threats to Israeli civilians " . <p> Lebanon 's health ministry said an Israeli strike killed one person in the country 's south Monday , while the Lebanese army said an Israeli drone wounded a soldier in the east . <p> The official National News Agency said the person was killed in " a strike launched by an enemy drone ... on a motorcycle " in the south Lebanon town of Marjayoun . <p> The Lebanese army in a statement said " an enemy drone struck an army bulldozer at a position , injuring one soldier " in the country 's eastern Hermel region Monday . <p> The Israeli military said it was " aware of reports regarding a soldier from the Lebanese military who was injured in one of the strikes and the incident is under investigation " . <p> Israel 's army said it had responded to " several acts by Hezbollah in Lebanon that posed a threat to Israeli civilians in violation of the understandings between Israel and Lebanon " . <p> The military struck " several military vehicles that were operating in the area of a Hezbollah missile manufacturing site in Bekaa " and " struck terrorist infrastructure sites used to smuggle weapons adjacent to the Syria-Lebanon border in the Hermel area " . 
@@118385044 <p> The Standard Group Plc is a multi-media organization with investments in media platforms spanning newspaper print operations , television , radio broadcasting , digital and online services . The Standard Group is recognized as a leading multi-media house in Kenya with a key influence in matters of national and international interest . <h> DIGGER CLASSIFIED <h> It is time to stop the senseless killings of the Palestine people <h> JavaScript is disabled ! <p> Please enable JavaScript to read this content . <p> Palestinian people are seen on their way from Gaza City toward south , in central Gaza Strip , on Nov. 10 , 2023 . In Gaza , people continued to flee southwards . More than 50,000 people fled on foot or donkey carts on Thursday , said the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs ( OCHA ) . FILE/Xinhua <p> November 29th is the International Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian people . This is the day of global solidarity with the courage , persistence , freedom-seeking and justice-seeking of the people who have stood against evil forces for more than seven decades . <p> The forces that brazenly take pride in taking the lives of young children , killing defenceless people and destroying people 's houses and not looking even slightly embarrassed . The United Nations declared this day , in 1977 , to help the Palestinian people , but it is insufficient . Last year on this day , the number of Palestinians killed was 14,000 , but now we are facing 53,000 dead and missing and more than 100,000 injured , more than 60 per cent are women , children and the elderly . <p> For more than a year , the world has looked to the United Nations to deal with the genocide of the Palestinian people , to control the fire of war that has spread to other countries , and to hand over the jailer of the world 's largest open prison to justice . <p> Unfortunately , during this period , all freedom-seekers and awakened consciences in the world have witnessed the inaction of the United Nations and impunity of the Israeli administration . Today 's conditions in Palestine and other countries affected by the attacks of the Israeli regime prove that the most effective and fastest measure to sympathise with the Palestinian people is to cut off international support for this cancerous tumour . Israel has shown its lack of commitment to international values ? ? by tearing up the United Nations Charter , a covenant accepted by the organisation 's members . <p> It will be recorded in history that the massacre of civilians , attacks on hospitals , cutting off water , food , fuel and medicine on the people of Gaza , the displacement of thousands of people , the killing of journalists and employees of international organisations , and the martyrdom of legends such as martyr Hassan Nasrallah , martyr Ismail Haniyeh and martyr Yahya Sinwar took place with the complicity of Western governments , and that every time efforts were made to stop the war , the hand of the US representative in the UN Security Council was raised to thwart these efforts . <p> The injustices perpetrated on the Palestinian people require global attention and action , while silence in the face of them is tantamount to the normalisation of evil and cruelty that will challenge the future of humanity . <p> If today the UN and especially the Security Council can not find a way to deal with the crimes of the occupiers of the Palestinian land , the credibility and dignity of this organisation will be seriously jeopardised . <p> Today , we emphasize our commitment to fully support the cause of free and independent Palestine . We are ready to cooperate with all countries committed to the principles of freedom , equality , justice and human rights , and considers the defence of the Palestinian people a demand of all the free people of the world . <p> The Islamic Republic of Iran still believes that the only principled solution to the Palestinian issue is the return of the refugees and holding a referendum among the original Palestinian people , including Muslims , Christians and Jews , based on democratic principles and international law . 
@@118428338 <h> The state of shelter in conflict-affected countries ( Winter 2024 ) <h> Attachments <h> Shelter needs doubled in five years <p> Globally , the number of crises-affected people in need of a home has more than doubled since 2019 , according to a new overview by the Norwegian Refugee Council ( NRC ) . <p> By 2025 , more than 91 million people who are affected by humanitarian crises will be in urgent need of shelter to protect themselves from the elements , to have privacy and a place to feel safe . This shows more than a doubling in needs since 2019 when 37.5 million people required shelter support . <p> " Shelter is more than four walls and a roof . Shelter can provide increased safety from violence and diseases . It also provides displaced people with dignity and a safe place to recover from the trauma of losing a home , and to start restabilising their lives , " said Amelia Rule , NRC 's global lead for shelter and settlement . <p> Emergency shelter solutions in dire situations such as in Gaza , Sudan , Ukraine and Lebanon include family sized tents , kits of essential materials for sealing-off openings in damaged buildings , tarpaulins and tools for repairing shelters . <p> " There is an urgent need for increased support to provide emergency shelter for people to be protected from the elements before winter sets in . In addition , we need to invest in the more sustainable longer-term solutions , " said Rule . <p> In Sudan more than 14 million people have been forced to flee due to the conflict . Amid the ongoing hostilities and devastating destruction of infrastructure , millions have lost their homes and are now living in overcrowded dwellings and structures not intended for prolonged human habitation . In Gaza there are 1.4 million people in need of shelter support . <p> NRC 's shelter and settlement teams are working hard to reach people in need of shelter in many of today 's largest emergencies . However , while the need for shelter has doubled since 2019 , the funding has not kept pace with the needs -- and the sector is only 27% funded so far into 2024 . <p> Notes to editors : <p> The full overview of global shelter needs entitled ' ? ? The State of Shelter in conflict affected countries -- Winter 2024 ? ' ? ? can be foundhere . <p> More than 120 million people are displaced due to persecution , conflict and violence ( UNHCR ) . <p> NRC 's shelter and settlement teams are working in 32 countries supporting 1.5 million people . <p> As of 2024 , 91 million people affected by humanitarian crises are in urgent need of shelter support ( GSC ) . This shows more than a doubling in needs since 2019 when 37.5 million people required shelter support ( data from GSC ) . <p> While the need for shelter has doubled since 2019 , the funding for shelter has not kept pace with the needs . So far into 2024 only 1.06 billion US dollars out of the 3.96 billion US dollars needed for shelter and non-food items have been received ( 27 per cent ) ( OCHA ) . <p> In Sudan more than 14 million people have been forced to flee due to the conflict ( OCHA ; UNHCR ) . 
@@118428339 <p> Amid an era of conflict and violence , the Security Council and the international community at large must include women and girl peacebuilders in discussions at the highest levels , engage with them at the local levels and provide adequate financial support to help ensure the success of their efforts , delegates heard today during the 15-member organ 's briefing on intergenerational leadership on women , peace and security . <p> " Intergenerational dialogues are critical opportunities for building trust and articulating shared aspirations , " said Rosemary DiCarlo , Under-Secretary-General for Political and Peacebuilding Affairs , pointing to rising violence , growing geopolitical contestation and diversifying threats to peace and security . " Amid these crises , young women peacebuilders are demonstrating that a better world is possible , " she underscored , spotlighting the brave efforts of Malala Yousafzai from Pakistan , Greta Thunberg from Sweden and Ilwad Elman from Somalia in " bucking the status quo " . <p> Stressing that " peace can not be achieved through deals made by elites alone " , she said the international community must embrace new approaches to cultivate a new generation of leaders -- especially young women and girls -- who are at the forefront of reshaping power structures and advancing peace . Facilitating dialogues , fostering inclusive peace processes and investing in young women 's leadership are three key areas in advancing intergenerational leadership , she emphasized . <p> Detailing the Organization 's support for " multi-track efforts that promote peace from the bottom up " , she pointed to , among others , the Peacebuilding Fund 's support in Chad for local dialogue platforms that brought together youth associations with traditional authorities to peacefully resolve disputes and lead prevention campaigns , as well as the organization in Yemen by the Office of the Special Envoy for the Secretary-General of consultations for an inclusive peace process , which has framed the women , peace and security agenda as a broader community priority rather than just a women 's issue . Recalling the " Common Pledge on women 's participation in peace processes " launched by the Secretary-General earlier in 2024 , she urged all stakeholders to join the UN in taking concrete actions to ensure women 's participation in peace processes . <p> " Investments in women , peace and security agenda are not an option ; they are a necessity for preventing conflict and achieving sustainable and inclusive peace , " she underscored , urging the international community 's more robust and consistent financial backing to ensure that young women peacebuilders ' work flourishes . Noting that " young women around the world are envisioning and demanding a world of justice and peace " , she declared : " Together , we must cultivate leadership from the ground up , placing young women and women 's rights at the heart of our efforts . " <p> Also briefing the Council , via videoconference , was Tahani Abbas , who said she is a human rights defender and peace advocate . Noting her decades ' long work with survivors of sexual and gender-based violence , " having fled from Khartoum on my own two feet as the war rained down around me " , she said that women have been on the front lines of conflict response in creative and adaptive ways . Sudanese women " in the latest version of the war " in their country have created networks of resistance like emergency response rooms , where " humanitarian mechanisms " they designed provide medical services , daycares , communal kitchens and other services to women and girls throughout Sudan . When the war broke out , women who had participated in de-escalation and dialogue processes at the local levels prior to the war and had used their skills and capacities to mediate , negotiate and manage tensions and conflicts in their communities during the war , she added . <p> Stressing the importance of including women civilian expertise into " dialogue processes that affect their fate " , she recalled the meeting of the ALPS Aligned for Advancing Lifesaving and Peace in Sudan Group in Switzerland in August where she , " along with over a dozen of my Sudanese sisters ... over half of them young " , advised the Special Envoy and other members of the Group on priorities and solutions . They continue to inform the technical committees about needs and opportunities to support the Sudanese , she said , emphasizing : " Without this kind of participation at all levels of dialogue , we will not see the enduring peace that the Sudanese people desire and deserve . " <p> She called on the Council to protect and support women on the front lines of conflict -- both as victims and first responders -- and to support women peacebuilders before , during and after crises , highlighting that the " Mothers of Peace " group in Blue Nile are among others that are engaged in influencing " rank-and-file " within warring parties . She further called on the Council to partner with and for young women in Sudan and ensure that youth perspectives are meaningfully included in dialogues at all levels around ending the war and building Sudan 's future . <p> In the ensuing discussion , many speakers echoed the **25;2470;TOOLONG calls for inclusive peace and security processes that ensured women 's participation and highlighted their respective Governments ' efforts to this end . <p> The representative of the United States , who organized today 's briefing as Council President for December , spoke in her national capacity to recall the awarding of the Nobel Peace Prize , 13 years ago , to three women -- Ellen Johnson Sirleaf and Leymah Gbowee of Libera , and Tawakkol Karman of Yemen . Describing a photograph of the three , hand in hand , " soaking in their historic accomplishment " , the oldest awardee in her seventies , and the youngest in her thirties , she underscored the need for both " hard-earned wisdom and a fresh perspective ; a keen understanding of the past and unrelenting hope for the future " in tackling intractable challenges to peace and security . " Let us follow their example , and create more coalitions like that one , of emerging and experienced peacebuilders , " she said , detailing her Government 's work to that end . <p> The United Kingdom 's delegate similarly spotlighted her Government 's work with Afghan women leaders to discuss tangible steps to support women 's inclusion in Afghanistan 's future . Voicing alarm over the sharp rise in conflict-related sexual violence , she stated that the Prime Minister 's newly appointed Special Representative on Preventing Sexual Violence in Conflict , Ray Collins , will drive international action to tackle this issue . She also highlighted its support to the Peacebuilding Fund , and its $900,000 programme with the International Civil Society Action Network , through which it helped bring together over 40 women peacebuilders across generations to assess challenges and plan collective action . <p> Likewise , the representative of Switzerland , noting her delegation 's work as co-chair , with Sierra Leone , of the Informal Expert Group on women , peace and security , emphasized the need to interact with women on the ground , stating : " We have tried to promote this through a trip by members of the expert group to South Sudan and during this year 's Council trip to Colombia . " In October , her delegation facilitated a joint dialogue between the young peace ambassadors of the African Union and the ambassadors of the Security Council of the UN and of the African Union . Further , the Council must commit to increasing the number of women mediators and contributors -- a point also made by Guyana 's representative . <p> Malta 's delegate , noting her delegation 's work as coordinator of the Shared Commitments on Women , Peace and Security , said : " We stand firm in our belief that in its deliberations , this Council must keep the daily -- and disproportionate -- challenges that women peacebuilders face at the forefront of its considerations . " Ecuador 's representative pointed out that women can act as " probes " , transmitting their knowledge and helping train new women leaders . <p> " Generation equality , not just gender equality , must be our goal " , underscored Algeria 's representative , stressing that youth , especially young women , bring energy and creativity that are essential to shaping sustainable peace efforts . He spotlighted his country 's National Action Plan adopted in July 2023 , and its strong focus on improving women 's inclusion in decision-making processes , and the Higher Council for Youth established in 2021 to give younger generations a meaningful voice in shaping policy and peace initiatives . <p> The speaker for France urged support for civil society funds and organizations , noting his country 's financial support to the Global Survivors Fund set up by Nadia Murad and Denis Mukwege in 2019 , and , through its Feminist Organization Support Fund , the disbursement of $250 million over the period 2023-2027 . Women 's participation in peace talks must be strengthened , and all peace agreements must include gender equality provisions , he added , noting his country 's investment of more than $1 million over the last three years in training women officers and creating military gender advisers for peacekeeping operations . <p> Slovenia 's representative pointed out that while women remain disproportionately affected by conflicts , specific needs and vulnerabilities of different age groups remain largely invisible due to gender- and age-based discrimination . She called for the inclusion of comprehensive gender analysis , including gender- and age-disaggregated data in all policy planning and implementation , which are crucial to addressing that gap . A survivor-centred response , which ensures access to sexual and reproductive health and rights , is also needed , she added , noting that survivors must be empowered by engaging them in designing the response . <p> The Republic of Korea 's representative cited his country 's experience in prioritizing women 's education for empowerment , pointing out that its First National Constitution in 1948 guaranteed women access to education on equal terms with men ; " something unimaginable " during the country 's prior history . This measure led to a steep decrease in women 's illiteracy , he stated , allowing Korean women to " serve as community leaders , peace advocates and economic drivers -- roles critical to nation-building " . Spotlighting its launch in 2024 of the " Action with Women and Peace Fund " , his country 's first contribution will support the Women 's Peace and Humanitarian Fund , focusing on Sudanese women 's participation in peace processes , he said . <p> Japan 's representative advocated for leveraging the Peacebuilding Commission 's advisory role , noting that its convening power can bring together diverse actors , including civil society and women peacebuilders , to inform the Council 's deliberations . Moreover , by requesting the Commission 's inputs and advice , the Council can better incorporate the voices of these diverse actors and reflect upon cross-generational efforts and initiatives on the ground . <p> On that point , the Russian Federation 's representative , questioning how the women , peace and security agenda is being implemented in the Arab-Israeli conflict , said that fostering intergenerational dialogue is a task for the Peacebuilding Commission , not the Security Council . While the UN should create equal conditions for the participation of women and men in peacekeeping processes , the most valuable contributions are made by women living in conflict-affected regions , he said , urging the Council to take a " practical " approach that considers cultural specificities and avoids " cookie-cutter approaches or the interest of donors and other external players " . <p> " Without creating the conditions for women 's security , the Council 's discussions will be nothing more than empty platitudes for women who have suffered so much from war and conflict , " underscored China 's representative . Echoing Sierra Leone 's delegate who cautioned against tokenism , he said the Council 's discussions on women , peace and security issues should not be for the sake of political correctness or soundbites . Urging concrete and pragmatic measures , he once again called on his fellow Council members to stand united in upholding the authority of the organ 's mechanisms and resolutions and support robust action to secure an immediate ceasefire in Gaza . <p> Mozambique 's delegate , highlighting the contributions of young women in his country 's struggle against colonialism , said : " This legacy continues to inspire successive generations of women peacebuilders who are now working towards a brighter future for women 's empowerment in Mozambique . Similarly cautioning against " lip service " , he called for enhanced capacity-building measures , through mentorship programmes aimed at women peacebuilders , and financial support for women-led organizations . 
@@118463239 <h> Israeli attacks have killed 4,047 people in Lebanon <p> An Israeli flag flutters as buildings lie in ruin in Lebanon , near the Israel-Lebanon border , following the ceasefire between Israel and Iran-backed group Hezbollah , as seen from northern Israel , December 4 , 2024 . REUTERS/Stoyan Nenov <p> Israeli attacks on Lebanon have killed 4,047 people and wounded 16,638 others since Oct. 7 , 2023 , Lebanese Health Minister Firass Abiad said in a televised press conference on Wednesday . <p> The attacks have killed 316 children and 790 women , Abiad added . <p> The conflict between Israel and Lebanese militant group Hezbollah was ignited by the war between Israel and Hamas in Gaza , which erupted on Oct. 7 , 2023 . <p> Fighting intensified in September after Israel stepped up attacks on Iran-backed Hezbollah , killing its leader Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah and conducting heavy strikes on the capital Beirut and throughout Lebanon . <p> As of late last month , Israeli authorities said Hezbollah strikes had killed 45 civilians in northern Israel and the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights , and at least 73 Israeli soldiers had been killed in northern Israel , the Golan Heights , and in combat in southern Lebanon . <p> The United States and France brokered a ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah on Nov. 27 in the hope of ending the deadliest confrontation between Israel and the militant group in years . Both sides accuse the other of breaching the truce . <p> Abiad said Lebanon had registered 67 Israeli attacks on hospitals , that 40 hospitals were directly targeted , and seven hospitals had been forced to close . 
@@118494596 <p> Raila needs support either by consensus or at least a two-thirds majority vote by the AU member states represented by their heads . <h> Why Raila will not win AUC chairmanship , Mukhisa Kituyi <p> Assessing the race , Kituyi observed that the Francophone bloc would create a bulwark against the Kenyan candidate 's bid . <p> He said the Djibouti candidate , Mahamoud Ali Youssouf , will capitalise on the French-speaking and Islamic countries to get the seat . <p> Kituyi further observed that Raila 's continent-wide overtures are deficient in strategy and thus would not deliver him the win in the vote scheduled for February 2025 . <p> There are other external factors that the Kenyan candidate 's campaign secretariat has not explored , thus the loophole for the loss . <p> " I do n't know if it is campaigning that gets you that seat . There are certain things that are strategically very important in consideration . The Israeli-Gaza genocide is one of them . I have worked at the highest level in international diplomacy ; I have sat in fora where major elective and appointment decisions are made . One thing I know for sure is that Francophone Africa will always vote as a bloc on any issues concerning Africa , " he said . <p> According to Kituyi , a one-time presidential hopeful , the French-speaking and Islamic countries will always marshal support amongst themselves for the benefit of one of their natives . <p> In this case , it is commonplace that the foregoing bloc(s) could choose to support the bid of Djibouti 's long-serving Foreign Affairs minister , Mahmoud , Raila 's main challenger . <p> " You have two candidates for a position to represent Africa , if one is from Francophone and the other is not , the Francophone candidate starts with 29 votes . If you have Djibouti and Kenyan candidates , the Djibouti one starts with 29 votes , then add those from Islamic countries , and SADC issues a statement that its countries are supporting Djibouti , where are you going to start campaigning for Raila ? " Kituyi posed . <p> The former UNCTAD secretary general seemed to share in the thoughts of diplomacy analyst Ahmed Hashi , who previously highlighted the significance of regional self-segregation within the continent based on the colonial masters ' demarcations and interests . 
@@118539384 <p> US Sanctions affect Sri Lankan Projects : A New Cold War in South Asia as the BRICS risePosted on December 5th , 2024 <h> Darini Rajasingham-Senanayake <p> There will be no honeymoon for the newly minted National People 's Power ( NPP ) Government in Colombo . The storm blowing from Washington across the Indian Ocean World -- targeting China to the East , Iran to the West , and now it seems , India in the Middle is growing . <p> Development projects that promised much needed foreign investment in Sri Lanka have been thrown into disarray by expanding United States sanctions on Russian firms , as well as , court action against the Indian conglomerate , Adani . <p> Two months ago India 's Shaurya Aeronautics Pvt Ltd and Russia 's Airports of Regions Management Company 's plans for joint development of the Chinese built Mattala International Airport in southeast Sri Lanka were put on hold due to US sanctions. i The U.S. Department of the Treasury had sanctioned India-based Shaurya Aeronautics Private Limited , among 275 individuals and entities involved in supplying Russia with advanced technology and equipment . The airport near the Hambantota Port is located near some of the world 's busiest trade , energy and submarine Data Cable routes . <p> Meanwhile a bribery case was filed in New York against India 's Adani conglomerate last month . Adani was set to develop the Western Terminal of the Colombo port in partnership with local conglomerate John Keells holdings with significant US funding . This was before US authorities had accused India 's Adani , a partner of US hedge fund BlackRock , of bribery in India 's Andhra Pradesh and filed a court case in New York . Adani , said to be Asia 's richest man is seen to be personally close to Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi . <p> These US moves against Indian firms have likely given Sri Lanka Foreign Minister Vijitha Herath a big headache . Meanwhile Donald Lu , US Assistant Secretary in the Bureau of South and Central Asia would be in Colombo this week to offer ' capacity building ' assistance to Colombo , presumably , for more institutional capture . The Central Bank of Sri Lanka has been already effectively privatized to serve the interests of predatory International Sovereign bond holders , rather than the long suffering people of Sri Lanka -- via International Monetary Fund reforms . <p> Will Mr. Herath be able to persuade Lu to hold back US sanctions , or make an exception for debt trapped Sri Lanka -- to enable the Mattala International Airport and Colombo port west terminal projects to proceed with Indian and Russian investments ? A US agency that agreed to lend $500 million to Adani 's port development in Sri Lankasaid it 's conducting due diligence on the project . <p> Targeting Indian Projects and Sri Lanka 's BRICS application <p> Indian firms are being targeted by Washington , which has long sought access to strategic Sri Lanka 's transport , telecom and energy infrastructure . This was evident in the US Millennium Challenge Corporation ( MCC ) Compact , rejected by Sri Lanka back in 2019 . At the time there were fears of the US establishing military bases under the Status of Forces Agreement ( SOFA ) , in the geostrategic island nation . <p> The Colombo harbour is South Asia 's busiest port but that development is also now on hold . Of course , the US promise to fund Adani 's port development to the tune of over USD 500 million was in any case a tall order ! The sum was much more than the aborted Millennium Challenge Corporation MCC project , after which the mysterious ISIS-claimed Easter Sunday hybrid war attacks targeted tourist hotels and churches , crashing economy and society . The attacks were clearly designed to set off a ' cascade of violence " in the multi-religious island nation . <p> The Mattala International Airport in Hambantota , initially built by the Chinese was perceived to be a White Elephant ' development project , but is actually located near one of the world 's busiest maritime trade , energy and submarine Date Cable routes in the world . The Indian Shaurya Aeronautics plan to develop the airport would bring needed foreign investment and showcase collaboration among the big three Asian powers- China , India and Russia but is now on ice due to US sanctions . <p> Sri Lanka , clearly caught in the cross-hairs of big power rivalry , had formally submitted an application to join BRICS and the New Development Bank at the meeting in Kazan in October where President Putin hosted China 's President Xi and Indian Premier Modi along with other Global South leaders . The new government in Colombo would be hoping to leverage regional growth and support from the Global South in the Asian 21st Century " . <p> However , no senior Minister from Sri Lanka attended the meeting in Kazan where de-dollarization and trading in national currencies was a hot topic -- an opportunity missed in deference to Washington ? Sri Lanka 's application to join the New Development Bank has been accepted but the BRICS application remains pending at this time . <p> A New Regional Cold War : Delhi defies US Sanctions on Russia and Pivots to BRICS ? <p> A new Cold War is clearly ramping up across the Indian Ocean -- and not just on China . Having pushed Russia and China into ever close partnership Washington seems keen to ensure that India warmly embraces its erstwhile foe -- China and the BRICS . <p> India had defied US sanctions on Russia over the past two year and ramped up Rupee-Ruble trade and Russian oil and gas purchases , benefiting from Russia 's decoupling from Europe and the war in Ukraine , also given historically strong and deep relations with the Soviet Union during the Cold War ( 1945-1991 ) . <p> Was India rewarded with regime change in Bangladesh for defying US Sanctions and drawing nearer its neighbouring BRICS ? India was also embroiled in a Canadian Sikh spy murder mystery with Woke Diaspora identity political overtones also emanating from Washington . <p> More concerning for India and indeed the South Asia region as a whole is the latest regime change operation with the obligatory student protests directed via social media right under India 's nose in neighbouring Bangladesh , and the weaponization of Hindu-Muslim-Buddhist regional religious identity politics that has followed . <p> Departing President Joe Biden seems to have run out of patience with India . The G-20 afterglow in Delhi now seems like a prelude to the parting of ways between India and the West , as Delhi appears to pivot to BRICS . Or perhaps it 's just Biden 's farewell to South Asia and the world , which increasingly seems like : ' Apres moi le deluge ! ' <p> Debt Neocolonialism as a new Cold War takes Shape in South Asia <p> Will Sri Lanka caught in the IMF 's neocolonial debt and Eurobond bailout business be able to withstand US pressures as India has and turn its back on Indian and Russian investments ? <p> Will Colombo be asked to choose between Washington and New Delhi again ? During the previous Cold War , Delhi armed and trained the Liberation Tigers ( LTTE ) , against any possible US bases in its backyard as Colombo moved close to Washington under J.R . Jayawardena . This ensured that Sri Lanka 's so-called internal ethnic conflict ' which was really a regional Cold War proxy war , with India closely allied with the Soviet Union , would run for 30 years . <p> Geostrategic Sri Lanka 's ports and airports at the center of the Indian Ocean and a choke point of Submarine Data Cables are again of great interest to Washington 's neocons and the NATO war machine , which now aspires to Full Spectrum Dominance ( FSD ) -- over earth , air , sea and Cyber operations . <p> The targeting of energy and electricity systems as well as transport and telecom infrastructure in the South Asia region -- from MCC in Nepal in the north to IMF 's privatization push in Sri Lanka in the south may have much to do with the rush to setup Data Centers , as well as , control over trade and energy choke points as a new Cold War ramps up . <p> Cold War Redux : Regime Change and Debt NeoColonialism <p> Back in 2022 the Pakistan premier Imran Khan accused Donald Lu of running a regime change operation against him . Simultaneously a soft regime change operation also unfolded in Sri Lanka with the US National Endowment for Democracy ( NED ) funded and social media directed Aragalaya ' protests ' . <p> The regime change in Colombo was masked as a people 's protest to ensure that the geostrategic island staged a smooth Sovereign Default into the waiting arms of the lender of last resorts- the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) . Washington backed President Ranil Rajapakse was installed for precisely this purpose . <p> Two years later , Imran Khan for his impudence in naming Donald Lu as the instigator of regime change in Pakistan in 2022 languishes in prison in Islamabad amid huge protests . Fate has been slightly kinder to Sri Lanka 's erstwhile president Gotabaya Rajapakse who was also ousted in the soft Aragalaya coup in 2022 . <p> Rajapakse remains a free man albeit an ex-American citizen barred from travel to the US . He was dispatched and humiliated amid the Woke Aragalaya protests that rocked Colombo , after the dreaded Victoria Nurland 's visit in early 2022 to triggered the regime change . Thus , South Asia 's only Upper Middle Income county was declared bankrupt overnight and forced to stage a first ever Sovereign Default ! <p> Meanwhile , India the South Asian regional hegemon , grapples with yet another US instigated regime change right under her nose -- this time in Dhaka , Bangladesh . Deposed secular Prime Minister , Sheikh Hasina had sought refuge in Delhi given historic ties but religion/s have been weaponized in Bangladesh as part of an old Cold War project to destabilize the region . <p> A quiet parting of Ways ? Weaponizing Diaspora Identity Politics <p> South Asia and the Indian Ocean region appear to be seeing a quiet parting of ways between the US and India , despite the G-20 hype of last year . The side show with Canada may well be a distraction from the far more serious issue of regime change in Bangladesh , where religious minorities ( Hindus , Buddhists and Christians ) , are now under threat from the same Saudi-funded Islamist Cat 's paw and handmaiden that the CIA with partner in crime Israel 's Mossad deploys around the world to destabilize countries and regions . Call it the ISIS , or Al Qaida , the Muslim Brotherhood , whatever . <p> The recent regime change operation , weaponizing religious identity politics in Bangladesh that saw the ouster of Prime Minister Hasina a close ally of Delhi certainly put a spanner in the works in the West 's wooing of mother India with the Indian Diaspora in the west in tow ; from Rishi Sunak to Kamala Harris who embodied the I2 ( Israel-India ) partnership given her Jewish husband , to all those Indian Diaspora CEOs of big US and EU corporations . <p> The Indian Diaspora in the West had been massively mobilized for the charm offensive to cement the I2 ( India-Israel ) alliance brokered as part of Washington 's Judeo-Christian-Hindu fundamentalist outreach via I2U2 ( India , Israel , UAE , US ) , with the Islamist Cat 's paw to persuade India to fight a proxy war on China and crash the Asian 21st Century . That kite did not fly . <p> The developments before and during the BRICS summit in Kazan where China and India made relative peace , and the regime change in Bangladesh may break the I2U2 partnership , or at least the I2 , India-Israel part . I2U2 was partly designed to help ' normalize ' Israel 's occupation of Palestine and the massacre in Gaza via the Abraham Accords . The U2- UAE and US part may be fraying at this time . <p> As winds of change blow in Washington come January when Donald Trump would be ensconced President of the United States , Donald Lu would be perhaps saying a fond farewell to South Asia on this trip . <h> Leave a Reply <p> Disclaimer : The comments contained within this website are personal reflection only and do not necessarily reflect the views of the LankaWeb . LankaWeb.com offers the contents of this website without charge , but does not necessarily endorse the views and opinions expressed within . Neither the LankaWeb nor the individual authors of any material on this Web site accept responsibility for any loss or damage , however caused ( including through negligence ) , which you may directly or indirectly suffer arising out of your use of or reliance on information contained on or accessed through this Web site . All views and opinions presented in this article are solely those of the surfer and do not necessarily represent those of LankaWeb.com . <p> This entry was posted on Thursday , December 5th , 2024 . You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 feed . You can skip to the end and leave a response . 
@@118596935 <h> oPt : Humanitarian Fund Dashboard ( November 2024 ) <h> Attachments <p> During November 2024 , the occupied Palestinian territory Humanitarian Fund ( oPt HF ) managed a total of 124 ongoing projects , totaling U$91.8 million . These projects aimed to address urgent needs in the Gaza Strip ( 89 per cent ) and the West Bank ( 11 per cent ) . The projects were strategically focused on Education , Food Security , Health , Protection , Emergency Shelter &amp; Non-Food Items ( NFI ) , Water , Sanitation , and Hygiene ( WASH ) , Coordination and Support Services , Multi-Purpose Cash Assistance and Nutrition . Of these projects , 70 projects are being implemented by international non-governmental organizations ( INGOs ) , 40 by national NGOs and 14 by UN agencies . Notably , 50 out of the 84 projects implemented by INGOs or the UN are being implemented in collaboration with national NGOs . <h> Disclaimer <p> UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs <p> To learn more about OCHA 's activities , please visit https : //www.unocha.org/. 
@@118621728 <h> What led to the fall of Syria 's Assad ? <p> People hold a banner featuring Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan as members of the Syrian community and supporters gather to celebrate the fall of Syrian president Bashar al-Assad in the face of an offensive by Islamist-led rebels , in Istanb 's Fatih district on December 8 , 2024 . ( Photo by AFP ) <p> Syrian rebels have toppled President Bashar al-Assad after a lightning offensive which in under two weeks has seen major cities slip from government 's fingers , culminating in rebels capturing the capital Damascus on Sunday . <p> Aron Lund , a fellow at the Century International think tank , told AFP this week that " the main factor " in the rebels ' success was " regime weakness and reduced international assistance to Assad " . <p> Islamist rebel leader Abu Mohammed al-Jolani 's " work on building up institutions and centralising much of the rebellion under his own control is also a big part of the story " , he added . <p> Syria 's grinding civil war began with a crackdown on anti-government protests in 2011 . The front lines had remained largely unchanged for the past four years , until the rebels launched their massive offensive . <p> AFP looks at some of the reasons behind Assad 's sudden demise . <h> - Army hollowed out - <p> Assad 's army is little more than a hollow shell amid a war that has killed more than half a million people and devastated the country 's economy , infrastructure and industry . <p> In the war 's early years , experts said a combination of casualties , defections and draft-dodging saw the military lose around half of its 300,000-strong force . <p> According to the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights war monitor , the army put up little significant resistance in some areas after the rebels launched their offensive on November 27 . <p> It reported soldiers repeatedly evacuating positions across the country . <p> " Since 2011 , Syria 's army has faced attrition in manpower , equipment and morale , " said David Rigoulet-Roze of the French Institute for International and Strategic Affairs . <p> Underpaid soldiers had reportedly looted resources to survive , and many young men have evaded conscription , he told AFP . <p> On Wednesday , Assad ordered a 50 percent raise in career soldiers ' pay , but with Syria 's economy in tatters , soldiers ' salaries are almost worthless . <p> The army has not officially commented since Damascus fell to the rebels . <h> - Abandoned by allies - <p> Assad has heavily relied on military , political and diplomatic support from key allies Russia and Iran . <p> With their help , he had clawed back territory lost after the conflict erupted in 2011 with the repression of anti-government protests , and Russia 's 2015 intervention with air power changed the tide of the war in Assad 's favour . <p> But last month 's rebel offensive came as Russia remains mired in its war in Ukraine , and its air strikes this time failed to hold back the Islamist-led rebels who swept up swathes of territory including major cities Aleppo , Hama , Homs and finally Damascus . <p> Assad 's other key ally Iran has long provided military advisers to Syria 's armed forces and supported pro-government armed groups on the ground . <p> But Iran and its allied groups have suffered setbacks in fighting with Israel since the Gaza war erupted and hostilities ensued between Israel and the Iran-backed Hezbollah in neighbouring Lebanon . <p> Nick Heras , an analyst at the New Lines Institute , told AFP before rebels took Damascus that " ultimately , the Assad government 's ability to survive will depend on the extent to which Iran and Russia see Assad as useful to their strategies in the region " . <p> " If either or both of those allies decide they can advance their interests without Assad , then his days in power are numbered , " he added . <h> - Hezbollah weakened - <p> Lebanese militant group Hezbollah has openly backed Damascus on the ground since 2013 , sending thousands of fighters across the border to bolster the army . <p> But the rebels launched their offensive last month on the same day that a ceasefire went into effect between Israel and Hezbollah , after more than a year of hostilities in Lebanon . <p> Hezbollah shifted many of its fighters from Syria to south Lebanon to face off with Israel , weakening its presence in the neighbouring country . <p> A source close to Hezbollah had told AFP that hundreds of the group 's fighters had been killed in the conflict with Israel , without providing a precise figure . <p> The fighting also decimated Hezbollah 's leadership , with the group 's longtime chief Hassan Nasrallah , his presumed successor and a string of senior commanders killed in Israeli air strikes . <p> On Sunday , another source close to Hezbollah said the group was pulling its forces from the outskirts of the capital and the Homs area near the border . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Assad 's overthrow was " a direct result of the blows we have inflicted on Iran and Hezbollah , Assad 's main supporters " . 
@@118647689 <h> by Nalliah Thayabharan <p> Southwest Asia is a geopolitical region encompassing the Arabian Peninsula , the Levant , Turkey , Iran , and Iraq . It now includes fifteen countries : Bahrain , Cyprus , Iran , Iraq , Israel , Jordan , Kuwait , Lebanon , Oman , Qatar , Saudi Arabia , Syria , Turkey , United Arab Emirates , and Yemen , as well as four occupied areas : East Jerusalem , Gaza Strip , Golan Heights , and West Bank . <p> The creation of countries in Southwest Asia resulted from several historical events , including the defeat of the Ottoman Empire in World War I and the withdrawal of European colonial powers after World War II . <p> During the First World War , the Ottoman Empire was defeated by the British Empire and its allies , creating new countries in Southwest Asia , including Iraq , Jordan , Syria , and Lebanon . The redrawing of borders by European colonial powers also led to conflicts between ethnic and religious groups . <p> Southwest Asia is troubled by war , terrorism , weak and failed states , and civil unrest . The map of today 's Southwest Asia was mostly drawn after the First World War and the war that planted many of the seeds of conflict that still plague Israel , Palestine , Iraq , Syria , and even Iran today . <p> When the First World War began in 1914 , the map of Southwest Asia looked much different than it does today . Most of Southwest Asia was part of the Ottoman Empire and had been for centuries . Rothschild controlled Egypt and some strategic points in the Gulf , and a weak Persian state was informally under the influence of Rothschild in the south and the Russian Empire in the north . <p> After the World War ended in 1918 , the Ottoman Empire disappeared and a host of new countries replaced it -- countries whose borders were decided in England , and whose people were caught up in the chaos and uncertainty of an unstable new order influenced by ideas like nationalism , self-determination , and Zionism . <p> For some , the new order held out hope for a better future , for others , only fear . Even before 1914 , the Southwest Asia was a vital strategic region . Germany built the Berlin to Baghdad railway to extend its influence , Russia wanted Constantinople and saw itself as the protector of the Ottoman Empire 's Orthodox Christians , France felt the same way about Catholics in Southwest Asia , and Rothschild was concerned about the safety of the Suez Canal route to his interests in India . <p> Ottoman fear of the Russians , British , and French is part of the reason the Empire joined Germany and the Central Powers when the First World War began . For the next four years , fighting raged in Anatolia , Mesopotamia , the Sinai , and Palestine alongside widespread famine and the Armenian genocide . <p> As the war dragged on , both the Central Powers and the Allies tried to undermine each other 's empires -- the Germans and Ottomans appealed to Muslims under French , British , and Russian rule , while the Allies appealed to minority Christians and Arab nationalists living under the Ottomans . <p> The Great Powers also struck secret deals with each other to divide the spoils of war in case they won . All these deals had one thing in mind ; winning the war as soon as possible and benefitting from that victory . The contradictions and conflicts of wartime agreements could be sorted out later , or so they thought . <p> One of these wartime deals was between the British Empire and the powerful Hashemite family of the Hejaz region , part of today 's Saudi Arabia but then part of the Ottoman Empire . <p> The Hashemites were led by the Sharif of Mecca , Hussein ibn Ali al-Hashimi , who agreed to lead Arab tribes loyal to him in a revolt against the Ottomans . In exchange , the British promised that the Hashemites would rule a future independent Arab kingdom -- but the deal was vague about borders . <p> Hussein hoped that if the British won , his family could lay claim to new territories and power -- and the way to legitimize this quest was through Arab nationalism . The Hashemites claimed they represented the desire of Ottoman Arabs for freedom and their national state , ideas that some Arab intellectuals and nationalist societies had indeed been calling for -- though not necessarily under the Hashemites . <p> This worked for the British , who positioned themselves as liberators . Many noble Arabs have perished in the cause of Arab freedom , at the hands of those alien rulers , the Turks , who oppressed them . The British knew their deal with Hussein violated a 1914 agreement with the French and Russians , which stated any post-war land settlements would involve all the Allies . <p> They also knew the French had their interests in Southwest Asia and might not be too keen on Arab independence . France never consented to offer independence to the Arabs , though at the beginning of the war , France might have done so . It was unthinkable that the French people would acquiesce in the placing of Christians of Lebanon under a Mohammedan ruler . So French diplomat Fran ? ois Georges-Picot met with British diplomat Mark Sykes , which resulted in the secret Sykes-Picot agreement of May 1916 . Once the Ottomans were beaten , each Ally would get its sphere of direct and indirect influence in the Arab provinces and part of Anatolia -- the French in the north and west , and the British in the southwest and south . <p> Palestine was to be administered internationally , and earlier agreements gave other areas to Russia and Italy . <p> Any future Arab kingdom would be under French and British influence . The British had promised the Hashemites an Arab kingdom , and the British and French had then divided up the same region between themselves . Palestine was the exception -- there , the British made another controversial deal to help their war effort . <p> The Zionist movement had existed since the 19th century and promoted the idea of a Jewish state . Zionist thinkers like Theodor Herzl considered several possible locations , but most settled on Palestine , which was the ancient homeland of the Jews and still home to a Jewish minority . Even before the war , Zionist Jews had been moving to Palestine , which created tensions with the Arab majority . Palestine was threatened with disappearance by the Zionist tide in this Palestinian land -- a nation that is threatened in its very being with expulsion from its homeland . In 1917 , the Allies were still struggling to win the war , and Russia dropped out after the Revolution . At the same time , some in the British government , like David Lloyd George and Arthur Balfour were sympathetic to the Zionist idea , an idea lobbied for by prominent British Zionists like Chaim Weizmann . London hoped that by supporting Zionism , the Jewish diaspora around the world might rally to the British cause . <p> Some British politicians like Lord Curzon and Edwin Montagu who was Jewish but anti-Zionist opposed the idea , but in November 1917 , Balfour sent a telegram to the Zionist Federation of Great Britain:His Majesty 's Government view with favour the establishment in Palestine of a national home for the Jewish people , and will use their best endeavours to facilitate the achievement of this object , it being clearly understood that nothing shall be done which may prejudice the civil and religious rights of existing non-Jewish communities in Palestine , or the rights and political status enjoyed by Jews in any other country . " <p> This was a dramatic commitment , but a vague one , since it was not clear whether national home " meant state " and what the situation of the non-Jewish majority would be in practice . So in order to win the war the British had made a deal with the Hashemites for Arab independence , the British and French made a deal to divide most of the West Asia and the British promised to support Zionism . <p> As if this was n't complicated enough , in 1917 the United States joined the war and the tangle of contradictions began to unravel . In January 1918 , President Woodrow Wilson unveiled his 14 Points for Peace . Wilson 's points included the concept of self-determination -- that each person who identified as a nation ought to determine their future . This seemed simple in principle , but it did not match with the reality of mixed populations and mixed identities on the ground . There were Arab nationalists , but most Southwest Asians were still not familiar with the relatively new concept of national identity . <p> They usually identified more with their religion , tribe , extended family , or home region . Yes , some tribes joined the Hashemite revolt , but most did not question Ottoman rule and remained loyal to the existing system whether or not they were enthusiastic about it . <p> Those who did feel a drive for national self-determination , be they Arabs , Zionists , Kurds or others , now felt there would be a state for them after the war . After successful British offensives in Palestine and Mesopotamia , the war finally ended with an Allied victory in November 1918 , and a strange interlude began . <p> The armistice had stopped the fighting , but it would take time to sort out the post-war order . British and French troops occupied the Ottoman Arab provinces and parts of Anatolia , the Americans brought humanitarian aid to feed the starving , and the politicians discussed the fate of Europe and West Asia at the Paris Peace Conference . <p> Delegations of nationalists made the trip to Paris to argue their case , though most would return without any concrete promises . Lebanese Christian Patriarch Elias Hoayek was an exception when he lobbied the French government to take a clear role in Lebanon . The resulting peace treaty signed at Versailles in June 1919 not only formally ended the war between the Allies and Germany , it also created the League of Nations . <p> The League would play a key role in the fate of Southwest Asia , especially since the British , French , and Americans now began to argue over how to implement the wartime agreements . <p> The British felt that since they 'd done most of the fighting against the Ottomans , they deserved a bigger share of the spoils . The US opposed the secret wartime diplomacy and insisted that the League should oversee the gradual independence of Southwest Asian peoples via so-called Mandates . <p> This meant that a developed " state would be responsible for advice " and assistance " until the new states could function on their own -- in theory . In practice , it was n't quite clear the mandate would work in practice , including for the Hashemite would-be rulers of a new Arab kingdom . While the heated discussions were going on , the US Congress changed its mind , and even though the League was President Wilson 's idea , the US refused to sign the peace treaty or join the League when it officially came into being in January 1920 . For the British and French , this was an opportunity . At the San Remo conference in the spring of 1920 , they formalized the military reality on the ground . <p> France became the Mandatory power for Syria and Lebanon , while Britain did the same for Mesopotamia , Transjordan , and Palestine . This allowed them to indirectly rule while not officially taking them on as imperial possessions . The populations of the mandated territories thus assumed all the responsibilities and none of the benefits of national sovereignty . One question the conference did not resolve was the borders -- they would have to wait until a peace treaty could be signed with the Ottomans , who still ruled in name only . The League did say France and Britain had to consider the wishes of the population , but British and French administrators mostly ignored local petitions . The American King-Crane Commission 's survey received conflicting results : some people wanted democracy , some wanted a Greater Syria including Lebanon and Palestine , some wanted British oversight , some French , and some American , and some wanted a Hashemite King . <p> A majority did not want the Mandates at all , and 99% were opposed to Zionist settlement in Palestine . After all the wartime deprivations and sufferings , the collapse of the Ottoman Empire , and the lack of a stable new order , it is not surprising that there was widespread violence in Southwest Asia after the Great War ended . <p> Egypt rose in a failed revolution against British rule in 1919 , and there were clashes between religious and ethnic groups in Lebanon . There was a major war in Anatolia between the Turkish nationalist forces under Mustafa Kemal and Allied , mostly Greek , troops -- which resulted in the creation of the Turkish Republic and the formal dissolution of the Ottoman Empire . <p> In Persia , the British wanted to counter Bolshevik Russian influence and secure access to oil , so they supported a coup by future Shah Reza Pahlavi , who took control of Persia in 1921 . <p> However , the violence that was the most intractable and arguably impacted the troubled future of Southwest Asia most of all occurred in Palestine , Syria , and Iraq . In Palestine , the British Mandate incorporated the Balfour Declaration , and British authorities encouraged Jewish settlement -- some 35,000 Jewish settlers arrived between 1919 and 1923 , hoping for a better life . <p> International Jewish organizations often helped settlers buy land , some of which but not all was previously infertile . Some also declared their desire not just for a Jewish homeland , but a Jewish state , which stoked tensions with Palestinian Arabs -- as did the British administration working closely with Zionist groups . <p> Some British officials and Jews wanted to curb settlement , but when enthusiastic Zionist supporter Herbert Samuel became British High Commissioner in Palestine , British support for settlement became more explicit . <p> The British and some Zionists argued that settlement would benefit Arabs through economic improvements , but most Arabs saw things differently . Jewish Settlers depreciated the value of land and property and at the same time manipulated a financial crisis . <p> In response , Churchill reiterated his support for Jewish settlement . Things turned deadly with Arabs rioting in Jerusalem and an organized firefight at TelHai in 1920 claiming the lives of a handful on both sides . Tensions fully boiled over in May 1921 in the town of Jaffa . A fight between rival Jewish socialist groups near a mosque spun out of control and led to deadly rioting between Jews and Arabs . Arabs killed 47 Jews , and the next day , Jewish groups and British police retaliated , killing 48 Arabs . <p> A British commission mostly blamed the Arabs but admitted their grievances stemmed from the political and economic consequences " of settlement and the perceived pro-Jewish bias " of the British . Zionist Ze'ev Jabotinsky felt the time had come to build a metaphorical wall around the settlers . Zionist colonization proceeded and developed only under the protection of a power that was independent of the native population -- behind an iron wall , which the native population could not breach . French rule in Syria and Lebanon got off to a violent start as well . <p> Hussein 's son Faisal had led Arab forces into Syria in 1918 and announced his claim to the throne of a Syrian Kingdom . However the French would not give up control , so French Prime Minister Georges Clemenceau and Faisal agreed that Syria would become a de facto state under the French Mandate . Faisal 's Arab nationalist allies of the Syrian National Congress , however , wanted full independence and control over Lebanon and Palestine . <p> A nationalist society informed Feisal that they were ready to declare war on both England and France . Faisal 's priority was becoming king , so he reluctantly agreed to cancel the deal with the French and was crowned King of Syria on March 7 , 1920 . <p> France threatened to invade , so Faisal now accepted their terms , but his answer arrived late so a French army invaded Syria anyway from its base in Lebanon , and defeated the ragtag Arab army at the Battle of Maysalun in July . Feisal fled to Mesopotamia , but Maysalun became a symbol of Arab nationalism and resistance to European imperialism . It was a military disaster , but its name has gone down in Arab history as a synonym for heroism and hopeless courage against huge odds , as well as for treachery and betrayal . Feisal 's position between the French and the nationalists , and his own family 's ambitions , have caused lots of historical debate about whether he was a power-hungry opportunist , a sincere pan-Arab nationalist , or both . <p> In Mesopotamia , the British were struggling -- their military was stretched thin across the region , bureaucrats fought departmental turf wars , and politicians argued about how much independence Mesopotamia would have -- and whether it would be one , two , or even three states . <p> One thing soon became clear : the population was divided . Some of the urban elite were not against British control , while the ex-Ottoman officer 's association and much of the tribal countryside were . <p> In June 1920 , a local Arab politician warned British administrator Gertrude Bell:You said in your declaration that you would set up a native government drawing its authority from the initiative and free choice of the people concerned , yet you proceed to draw up a scheme without consulting anyone . " <p> That same month , the Iraqi Revolt , also known as the Iraqi Revolution , began . From a local tribe resisting British troops imprisoning one of their own , the unrest spread across the Middle Euphrates region . Tribal forces besieged several British garrisons , captured Najaf and Karbala , and defeated multiple British relief columns . It took the British until November , and 450 dead , to put down the revolt , and the settlement included a vague promise of an independent Arab kingdom that had yet to be defined . <p> The fighting though caused some in Britain to question the Mandate . The British defeated the Iraqi tribes , but they did n't understand them . Bureaucrats wrote reports that blamed the revolt on a conspiracy between Turkey and Faisal , a conspiracy between the Germans and the Turks , and possibly the Bolsheviks too , the machinations of the American Standard Oil company , Pan-Islam , or the Jews . <p> Tribal leader Sayyid Muhsin Abu Tabikh was more pragmatic . The British hastened the revolt 's timing by their ignorance about the proud personality of the Iraqis and the numerous political mistakes that they committed across the country . There is a historical debate about the Iraqi revolt or revolution as well . Some saw it as a rebellion of different groups who were upset at British rule because it was foreign and heavy-handed . Others emphasize the role of former Ottoman officers who supported Faisal as the future king . Still , others consider it a national revolution that laid the foundation for a modern Iraqi identity and eventual independence . <p> The shape of modern Southwest Asia became more clear by 1921 , even though formal peace only came in 1923 . At the Cairo Conference , the Powers agreed that Faisal would rule over the Kingdom of Iraq , his brother Abdullah would become King of Transjordan , and Britain would continue to support the Zionist project in Palestine . <p> Though Britain would still have significant influence , the new Kingdoms enjoyed more autonomy than the British had intended thanks to the Iraqi revolt -- independence though , would have to wait . <p> The French soon divided Syria and Lebanon into five separate states , which they would rule for years to come . They also decided to create Greater Lebanon by attaching several Muslim districts mostly Christian Mount Lebanon , creating an unfamiliar and volatile mix . <p> And so the First World War had swept away the centuries of Ottoman rule and created a new Southwest Asia . <p> There was violence between religious and ethnic communities , and there was violence against foreign domination . <p> The roots of the Southwest Asian conflict were planted after the First World War but it really escalated during the Cold War when the superpowers got involved and several wars were fought in Southwest Asia . <h> Leave a Reply <p> Disclaimer : The comments contained within this website are personal reflection only and do not necessarily reflect the views of the LankaWeb . LankaWeb.com offers the contents of this website without charge , but does not necessarily endorse the views and opinions expressed within . Neither the LankaWeb nor the individual authors of any material on this Web site accept responsibility for any loss or damage , however caused ( including through negligence ) , which you may directly or indirectly suffer arising out of your use of or reliance on information contained on or accessed through this Web site . All views and opinions presented in this article are solely those of the surfer and do not necessarily represent those of LankaWeb.com . <p> This entry was posted on Sunday , December 8th , 2024 . You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 feed . You can skip to the end and leave a response . 
@@118670723 <p> In Gaza , displacement is a recurring , relentless reality . Over 90% of Gaza 's population is currently displaced , with families uprooted as often as every two months , fleeing violence with little more than the clothes on their backs . Yet , in this harsh cycle of forced movement , one crucial intervention offers a semblance of stability : site management . <p> As winter approaches , the urgency of establishing robust site management systems across Gaza can not be overstated . Alongside our partner , Agriculture Development Association ( PARC ) , we highlight how effective site management can mitigate the harsh realities faced by displaced families , particularly during the unforgiving winter months . <p> Winter in Gaza brings bitterly cold weather , that can fall to 6C . Families in Gaza are facing these conditions from tattered tents that lack any semblance of insulation . Access constraints have dwindled essential supplies and even tarpaulin to fix holes is nearly non-existent . <p> Many displacement sites in Gaza are on land that regularly floods , even after moderate rainfall . Stagnant water accumulates , soaking tents and belongings , creating health hazards , and eroding already undignified living conditions . <p> Essential winterisation items , blankets , mattresses , and warm clothing , are in critically short supply , leaving both children and adults further exposed to the cold and at even more heightened risk of illnesses . <p> " Site management plays a critical role in ensuring that displaced communities in Gaza can be quickly and effectively connected to the scarce but essential services available . Displacement in Gaza occurs frequently , with families uprooted on average every two months , forcing them to start from scratch each time . " <p> The lack of lighting in displacement sites further exacerbates the winter challenges . Families navigate dark pathways at night , heightening fears of violence and accidents . Women report avoiding latrines after dark due to safety concerns , highlighting how the absence of basic infrastructure deepens insecurity . <p> Effective site management plays a pivotal role in addressing these challenges by streamlining coordination and ensuring that critical needs are met . In displacement sites across Deir al-Balah and Khan Younis in the middle area of Gaza , DRC and PARC are leading efforts to improve shelter conditions , distribute winterisation materials , and establish safer living environments . <p> Site management ensures equitable distribution of blankets , mattresses , and warm clothing , prioritising the most vulnerable . It also coordinates infrastructure improvements , such as installing drainage channels to mitigate flooding and setting up solar-powered lighting to enhance safety and accessibility . By fostering clear communication channels , site management connects displaced families to essential services , ensuring that aid reaches those who need it most . <p> Shelter is the cornerstone of winter resilience . However , in Gaza 's displacement sites , many shelters are makeshift structures pieced together with tarpaulins and scraps . These fragile homes offer little protection from the cold or rain . Overcrowding remains rampant , with 95% of sites housing multiple families in a single space , stripping away any sense of privacy or dignity . <p> Site management addresses these dire conditions by coordinating shelter repairs and distributing essential materials like tarpaulins and insulation . Additionally , by engaging local communities , site managers empower residents to undertake basic maintenance , fostering a sense of autonomy even amidst displacement . <p> Food insecurity is another pressing concern . Across displacement sites , families rely on sporadic aid distributions that often fall short of meeting their needs . In DRC and PARC managed sites in Deir al-Balah , for example , only 25% to 50% of residents reported receiving sufficient food . The reliance on purchased firewood for cooking adds to the financial burden , forcing families to make impossible choices between food , warmth , and other essentials . <p> Overcrowding and deteriorating living conditions exacerbate protection risks , with families reporting verbal and physical altercations as well as domestic violence . The lack of privacy within shelters further strains relationships , creating an environment of constant tension . <p> Site management offers a pathway to restoring dignity and reducing harm . By setting up safe spaces for women and children and ensuring adequate lighting and privacy within shelters , site managers create environments where residents feel safer and more secure . <p> The work of DRC and PARC demonstrates that even in the most challenging circumstances , effective coordination and community engagement can make a tangible difference . Site management is not just about logistics , it is about restoring hope and resilience to communities caught in the relentless cycle of extreme violence and displacement . <p> The challenges in Gaza 's displacement sites are vast , but a critical and holistic response to those can only happen with increased financial support from the donor community and empowering Palestinian civil society in Gaza to take the lead in managing displacement site . 
@@118760034 <p> Over 82% of those in global humanitarian need live in 20 countries at greatest risk of humanitarian deterioration in 2025 . <p> Sudan is now the biggest humanitarian crisis ever recorded , accounting for 10% of people in humanitarian need globally , despite being home to just 1% of the global population , as Syria re-enters top 5 countries of concern for first time in several years <p> The IRC is calling for humanitarian aid reform , and how policy change can rebalance the scales <p> New York , NY , December 11 , 2024 -- Today , the International Rescue Committee ( IRC ) unveils its annual Emergency Watchlist , highlighting the 20 countries most likely to face escalating humanitarian crisis in 2025 . The top five crises are Sudan , occupied Palestinian territory , Myanmar , Syria and South Sudan . <p> 305 million people worldwide are in need of humanitarian support . Watchlist countries account for 82% of this figure , despite only comprising 11% of the global population . 77% of the world 's displaced are due to crises in Watchlist countries . Watchlist countries account for over 30% and counting of the world 's extreme poor . <p> This year 's Emergency Watchlist speaks to " A World Out of Balance , " as the catalyst for new crises and the obstacle in bringing them to heel . The four deep-seated imbalances in the international system that drive crisis are : <p> More conflict and less diplomacy is the most obvious and most dangerous symptom of the world out of balance . There are now a record59 conflicts in 2023 , the highest since World War II . <p> Attacks on civilians and civilian infrastructure are increasingly central to battle strategy . The number of attacks on civilians by state and non-state armed groups around the globe has increased by66% between 2013 and 2023 , and 74% were in Watchlist countries . <p> More carbon emissions and less support for people suffering from the climate crisis are the third imbalance . Watchlist countries contribute less than 4% of global CO2 emissions , but over one-third of all people made homeless or displaced by natural hazards over the past 5 years were in Watchlist countries . <p> Finally , more wealth accumulation , less poverty alleviation . On average , poverty levels in Watchlist countries are now almost 85% higher than they were in the mid-2000s , whereas they have fallen 37% in the rest of the world over the same period . <p> Expand safe pathways and assistance for refugees to strengthen protection and inclusion . <p> David Miliband , President &amp; CEO of the International Rescue Committee , said , <p> " It is clear that " the world is on fire " is a daily reality for 100s of millions of people . This is the result of a world fundamentally out of balance . As a humanitarian agency , IRC 's job is to meet needs , but also call them out . This is the purpose of the Emergency Watchlist published today . <p> " The concentration of extreme poverty is remarkable . The world is being cleaved into two camps : between those born in unstable conflict states , and those with a chance to make it in stable states . This is a trend that needs to be addressed for moral and strategic reasons . The moral case is that with more resources than ever before , they need to be used to help the world 's most vulnerable . The strategic case is that problems that start in Sudan or Syria do not stay there : instability spreads . <p> " Business as usual will not reverse this trend . Civilians will continue to suffer the worst impacts of burgeoning conflict and risk perilous journeys if we do n't break with the status quo . The international community has both an incredible opportunity and responsibility to change the terms of humanitarian and diplomatic engagement in Watchlist countries . And while the challenges in these countries are complex , the IRC 's experience shows that there are ways to save lives , build resilience , and preserve the livelihoods of the most vulnerable . " <p> Notes to Editors : <p> For the past decade , The IRC 's Emergency Watchlist report has helped the IRC determine where to focus our emergency preparedness efforts , successfully predicting on average 85-95% of the 20 countries facing the worst deteriorations . It is also where we share our analysis of how global humanitarian crisis is evolving , why , and what can be done to reduce the impact on affected communities . <p> IRC 's 2025 Emergency Watchlist At A Glance <p> Ranked Top 10 <p> Sudan <p> occupied Palestinian territory ( oPt ) <p> Myanmar <p> Syria <p> South Sudan <p> Lebanon <p> Burkina Faso <p> Haiti <p> Mali <p> Somalia <p> Unranked Second Half <p> Afghanistan <p> Cameroon <p> CAR <p> Chad <p> DRC <p> Ethiopia <p> Niger <p> Nigeria <p> Ukraine <p> Yemen <p> Now the largest humanitarian crisis ever recorded , the largest displacement crisis in the world , and heading towards one of the world 's worst famines in decades , Sudan is at the top of the Emergency Watchlist for the second year running . The country 's collapse is accelerating as a brutal civil war , fueled by outside powers , devastates the lives of civilians . Far from working towards a diplomatic resolution , leaders of both factions seem to believe that continued fighting best serves their interests , putting Sudan on course for devastating humanitarian collapse in 2025 . <p> The occupied Palestinian territoryremains second on the Watchlist after more than a year of conflict that has devastated Gaza and significantly worsened conditions in the West Bank . There is no safe place in Gaza : over 1 in 50 people in Gaza have been killed since October 2023 , and without a lasting ceasefire and restrictions on imports being eased , casualties will increase and there will be a risk of famine in 2025 . <p> Third on the list , Myanmar has seen armed groups unite and advance rapidly across the country , causing nearly 900,000 people to flee their homes - a 37% increase from 2023 . The balance tilts firmly towards more war this year . Cholera and other diseases threaten to overwhelm Myanmar 's health system , which has been decimated by conflict . Flooding , and other climate-induced disasters mean that the country 's ability to cope with additional needs will be pushed to the brink in the year ahead . <p> Syria re-enters the Emergency Watchlist 's top five for the first time since 2021 after nonstate armed groups launched a surprise offensive in late 2024 , triggering a rapid collapse of government forces . As Watchlist goes to print , the situation is highly uncertain . Whether the latest shifts in the conflict will allow Syrians to start rebuilding their lives in 2025 or deepen the crisis remains an open question . <p> Ripple effects from the conflict in Sudan exposes South Sudan to a growing economic crisis , while the arrival of over 878,000 people fleeing Sudan 's war adds to the challenges facing the country . The delivery of humanitarian aid is treacherous , with at least28 attacks on aid workers over the course of 2024 highlighting the reality that South Sudan is one of the most dangerous places for aid workers . This will make efforts to respond to the deepening crisis even more treacherous in 2025. 
@@118760035 <h> Attachments <h> Introduction <p> The UN and partners estimate that at least US$6.6 billion is required to address the humanitarian needs of 3.3 million people in Gaza and the West Bank , including East Jerusalem ( any reference to the West Bank in this document includes East Jerusalem ) . To be able to implement the full scale of what is urgently needed , Israel must take immediate and effective measures to ensure the essential needs of civilians are met . This includes lifting all impediments to aid and fully facilitating humanitarian operations , including the distribution of essential goods to Palestinians in need . Humanitarian actors anticipate being limited in what they can achieve in 2025 due to severe restrictions on humanitarian actors and ever greater challenges to their ability to operate , including intensified and coordinated anti-UN rhetoric strategically aimed at delegitimizing humanitarian efforts . Full compliance with international humanitarian law would allow humanitarians to use the full US$6.6 billion required and meet the essential needs of civilians . <p> Assuming humanitarian actors will continue to face a constrained operating environment , the 2025 OPT Flash Appeal calls for US$4 billion of this amount for UN Agencies , INGO , and NGO partners to address some of the most urgent and critical needs of three million of the 3.3 million people identified as requiring assistance . <p> The Appeal will target the entire population of Gaza , estimated at 2.1 million people , and 900,000 people in the West Bank . For the West Bank , this reflects an incremental increase compared to 2024 resulting from rising needs linked to the deteriorating situation . <p> The speed and scale of the killing and destruction in the Gaza Strip ( Gaza ) are unlike anything seen in recent history . At the same time , violence in the West Bank has sharply escalated . The conflict is now a regional one , and there is a considerable risk that the situation in the West Bank will also worsen . Similarly , the magnitude of this response and operational constraints are beyond what has been seen before in OPT . <p> Without sustained solutions to end the violence , humanitarian needs will continue to rise . Beyond peace , genuine efforts to enable humanitarian assistance will require critical changes in the operating environment , including : <p> Humanitarian actors must have safe and sustained access to all people in need across the Gaza Strip and West Bank , including East Jerusalem . <p> Humanitarian goods must be allowed to enter Gaza at scale , requiring the opening of additional crossings into Gaza , supply routes within Gaza , and resumption of the commercial sector . <p> Deconfliction and the Humanitarian Notification System must be respected . 
@@118794854 <h> Israeli troops withdraw from southern Lebanon village under ceasefire deal <p> Israeli soldiers gather near a military vehicle after returning from Lebanon , following a ceasefire between Israel and Iran-backed group Hezbollah , near Israel 's border with Lebanon in northern Israel , Dec. 11 , 2024 . <p> Israeli forces withdrew Wednesday from a strategic town in southern Lebanon and were replaced by Lebanese troops as part of a ceasefire agreement between Israel and the militant group Hezbollah . <p> The withdrawal from Al-Khiam came two weeks after the start of the ceasefire brokered by the United States and France . <p> " This is an important first step in the implementation of a lasting cessation of hostilities and lays the foundation for continued progress , " Gen. Erik Kurilla , head of U.S. Central Command , said in a statement . <p> Lebanese Prime Minister Najib Mikati called the development " a fundamental step towards strengthening the army 's deployment in the south , in implementation of the ceasefire decision . " <p> The ceasefire halted months of intensified fighting between Israel and Hezbollah , which included Israeli ground operations inside Lebanon and airstrikes that killed multiple Hezbollah leaders . <p> Hezbollah launched cross-border attacks against Israel in solidarity with Hamas militants in the Gaza Strip following the October 2023 Hamas attack on southern Israel . <p> The Pentagon said U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin discussed the ceasefire during a Wednesday phone call with Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz , saying it could bring lasting calm and allow people on both sides of the Israel-Lebanon border to return to their homes . <p> " The secretary emphasized the U.S. commitment to securing the release of all hostages in Gaza , including U.S. citizens , and urged the government of Israel to continue to take steps to improve the dire humanitarian conditions in Gaza , " Pentagon press secretary Maj. Gen. Pat Ryder said in a statement . <p> The U.N . General Assembly demanded on Wednesday an immediate and permanent ceasefire in the Gaza Strip as well as the immediate and unconditional release of all hostages still being held by Palestinian militants . <p> " The message that it is sending is that we are with you , " Palestinian envoy Riyad Mansour said after the vote . He added that it shows that Israel and its main backer , the United States , are more isolated internationally over the war . <p> The ceasefire resolution , which had 85 cosponsors , was adopted with 158 votes in favor and nine against , including the United States and Israel . <p> " The vote today is not a vote for compassion , " Israel 's ambassador , Danny Danon , said . " It is a vote for complicity . " <p> He said the resolution failed to directly link the release of the remaining 100 hostages held by Hamas with the ceasefire , saying that amounted to " appeasement . " <p> The United States blocked a similar measure with its veto at the U.N . Security Council on November 20 , saying that it could not support an unconditional ceasefire that did not come with the release of hostages . <p> It voted against the ceasefire resolution in the General Assembly on Wednesday on similar grounds , as well as a second resolution supporting UNRWA , the embattled U.N aid agency that assists Palestinian refugees . <p> " Colleagues , the messages we send to the world through these resolutions matter . And both of these resolutions have significant problems , " U.S. Deputy U.N . Ambassador Robert Wood told the Assembly . <p> " One rewards Hamas and downplays the need to release the hostages , and the other denigrates Israel without providing a path forward to increasing humanitarian assistance to Palestinian civilians . " <p> The General Assembly previously has called for a ceasefire , but its resolutions , though they carry the moral weight of the majority of the international community , are nonbinding and have been ignored . <p> The text also demands that Palestinian civilians across Gaza be given immediate access to aid necessary for their survival . <p> The situation is especially dire in northern Gaza , where the U.N . says between 65,000 to 75,000 Palestinians have been largely cut off from aid deliveries for the past two months . International hunger monitors say famine is imminent there . <p> In a separate vote , the 193-member assembly expressed support for UNRWA , the embattled U.N . aid agency that assists Palestinian refugees in the occupied territories and the wider Middle East . <p> On October 28 , Israel 's parliament adopted legislation to ban the agency in Israel , potentially crippling its ability to reach millions of Palestinians in Gaza and the West Bank . The law will go into effect in January . <p> More than 90 countries cosponsored the text , and 159 countries voted in favor of it , while nine voted against . <p> The resolution says no other agency can replace it and called on Israel " to abide by its international obligations , respect the privileges and immunities of the agency and uphold its responsibility to allow and facilitate full , rapid , safe and unhindered humanitarian assistance in all its forms into and throughout the entire Gaza Strip . " <p> The resolution also calls on Israel to pay UNRWA reparations for the dozens of schools , health centers and other facilities the agency runs that its military has bombed during the past 14 months . <p> " An agency we established is under threat , " said Slovenian Ambassador Samuel ? bogar , referring to the General Assembly 's creation of UNRWA in 1949 . <p> " It is an agency acting on our behalf , on behalf of the values and principles of this organization . We need to support it . " <p> Norway 's ambassador said her country will submit a draft resolution to the assembly requesting the International Court of Justice to give an advisory opinion on Israel 's obligations to facilitate humanitarian assistance and other kinds of aid to the Palestinian population , delivered by the U.N. , NGOs and states . <p> The two resolutions voted on Wednesday received the highest margin of support of any Gaza-related motions in the General Assembly since the war started 14 months ago . <p> The United Nations on Wednesday appealed for just over $4 billion to address the most urgent humanitarian needs in the Palestinian territories for the next year . <p> Hamas set off the war with its October 7 , 2023 , terror attack on southern Israel during which its fighters killed about 1,200 people and took 250 hostages . Israel 's counteroffensive in Gaza has killed more than 44,800 people , according to the health ministry in Gaza . <p> Hamas has been designated as a terror group by the United States , United Kingdom and several other Western countries . 
@@118848954 <h> Attachments <h> Dec. 11 , 2024 <h> Gaza/Amsterdam <p> A new report out of Gaza lays bare the profound psychological impact of the ongoing war , particularly on children who are injured , disabled , separated from their families , or unaccompanied . <p> The study , Needs Assessment Study of Children with Disabilities , Injured and Separated or Unaccompanied , was conducted by the Community Training Centre for Crisis Management ( CTCCM ) with support from the War Child Alliance . It paints a harrowing picture of children 's mental health under Israeli bombardment and blockade . <p> " We met with injured , separated , and disabled children and their caregivers to hear from them about the toll of war on their lives . What they shared was devastating -- but sadly , not surprising . This study reinforces what we have seen , heard and witnessed over more than a year . Children are traumatised by this war , and we must respond , " says a spokesperson and Project Technical Coordinator from CTCCM in Gaza . <p> The findings in this study are stark . Caregivers report that 96% of children feel death is imminent , and nearly half believe they will die because of the war . Many children exhibit symptoms of aggression , fear , withdrawal , and severe anxiety , alongside a pervasive sense of hopelessness . Years of displacement , loss , and relentless bombing have left children psychologically scarred and their families in dire circumstances . <p> The survey of 504 households reveals that 88% of families have been displaced multiple times , with 21% forced to move six or more times . Most families live on less than ? 122 a month , grappling with soaring prices for food and essentials due to the ongoing blockade and restrictions on humanitarian aid . Meanwhile , 80% of breadwinners are unemployed , reflecting the devastating economic consequences of the war . <p> " For children in Gaza , nowhere is safe . They have seen homes destroyed , loved ones killed , and schools turned to rubble . Even so-called evacuation zones are not spared from bombing . The mental health of Gaza 's children is under constant attack , " says Rob Williams , War Child Alliance CEO . <p> The findings of the report* emphasise that the international community must act urgently . A ceasefire is imperative to allow the unrestricted delivery of humanitarian aid . Critical supplies , including medical provisions and nutritional supplements , must reach those in need immediately . Mental health and psychosocial support must be scaled up to address the widespread trauma experienced by children and their families . <p> Amidst this devastation , War Child and its partners have stepped in to provide life-saving assistance . Since the war began , their efforts have reached over 180,000 people , including 118,000 children . This includes emergency provisions such as food , clean water , hygiene kits , warm clothing , and blankets . <p> Recognising the acute mental health crisis , War Child , CTCCM and other partners have begun addressing the trauma experienced by more than 17,000 children . Programmes such as psychological first aid , adapted versions of TeamUp , and recreational activities in child-friendly spaces are providing moments of relief amidst the chaos . These interventions are vital , helping children process their emotions and find resilience in the face of unimaginable stress . War Child is also addressing the needs of unaccompanied and separated children , a particularly vulnerable group . So far , over 580 of these children have been directly supported , with efforts underway to connect them with essential services and caregivers. 
@@118850359 <p> The Standard Group Plc is a multi-media organization with investments in media platforms spanning newspaper print operations , television , radio broadcasting , digital and online services . The Standard Group is recognized as a leading multi-media house in Kenya with a key influence in matters of national and international interest . <h> The world must seek justice for Palestinians suffering genocide <h> JavaScript is disabled ! <p> A Palestinian man sits on the rubble of a destroyed building in the Nuseirat refugee in the central Gaza Strip on December 13 , 2024 , amid the continuing war between Israel and Hamas . AFP <p> Five days before International Human Rights Day , Amnesty International released its report on the many crimes that have taken place against Palestinians in Gaza . <p> While the charge of " genocide " has been on the lips of millions of protesters and observers worldwide for months , the report provides empirical and irrefutable evidence that a genocide has taken place in Gaza . Since October 7 , 2023 Israeli military offensive on the occupied Gaza Strip started , the Palestinian territory has experienced aerial and ground attacks of unprecedented magnitude . <p> More than 45,000 human beings from multi-generational families have been killed with over 106,000 , mostly civilian casualties . 90 per cent of Gaza 's 2.2 million inhabitants have been bombed into smaller pockets of land across the Palestinian territory . <p> Thousands who have resisted or simply got in the way have been detained incommunicado . Denied a lawyer or a fair trial , many have been subjected to torture and cruel and inhuman forms of treatment . In August 2024 alone , 52 detainees were killed in custody . <p> Kenyan domestic governance crises has pushed the violence in Gaza and the middle east from Kenya 's news headlines and this column for several months . The release of Amnesty International report " You Feel Like You Are Sub-Human " demands our attention and re-engagement . Researched over most of this year , the 296-page report concludes that a genocide has taken place in the Palestinian territory . <p> To establish the internationally recognised threshold of genocide has been reached , Amnesty examined whether Palestinians in Gaza constituted a national , ethnic , racial or religious group deserving of protection under the 1948 Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide . <p> Examining months of horrific evidence , researchers have found that Israel intentionally sought to kill , cause physical and mental harm and deliberately eliminate the Palestinians as a people . That the mass crimes have continued despite the International Court of Justice advisory opinion is even more outrageous . In July 2024 , the ICJ concluded that Israel 's 57-year-old occupation and annexation of Palestinian territory was unlawful . Furthermore , ICJ called for withdrawal of all its military forces and removal of Israeli civilian settlements and settlers . Rather than comply , the Israel Defence Forces have entrenched their military presence in Gaza . <p> The report calls for command responsibility for individuals responsible for the genocide , opening of safe humanitarian corridors , a complete ceasefire by Israel , Hamas and Palestinian armed groups and an end to human rights violations . The report adds further pressure on the international community , including Kenya , to arrest Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defence Minister Yoav Gallant in line with the arrest warrants issued by the ICC on November 21 , 2024 . <p> Given several references to a human rights driven Foreign Ministry policy , the Kenya government must , in the light of this new report , review its staccato approach to the " Palestinian question . " The Kenya government must use its international influence to ensure Israel implements all provisional measures ordered by the ICJ since January 26 , 2024 . <p> It must also oppose current attempts to establish a permanent military presence and alter Palestine 's borders and population . Kenya must join other nations to demand Israel cooperates with UN and ICCC investigations and prosecutions that will follow from the determination that crimes against humanity have occurred . Predictably , the Israel state will go on a charm offensive in Africa . Let our " Tembea Kenya " hospitality not be extended until the world delivers justice and accountability for the genocide that has occurred.While the arc of justice may take time to effect the charges of international crimes against humanity and genocide , it is important to remember , there is no statute of limitation for the investigation and prosecution of those suspected to be responsible for one of the worst episodes in a decade . Justice for Palestinian people and peace in the middle east , must prevail within our lifetime . 
@@118850380 <p> The Standard Group Plc is a multi-media organization with investments in media platforms spanning newspaper print operations , television , radio broadcasting , digital and online services . The Standard Group is recognized as a leading multi-media house in Kenya with a key influence in matters of national and international interest . <h> ' Imperative ' to work against IS in Syria , Blinken tells Turkey <h> JavaScript is disabled ! <p> US Secretary of State Antony Blinken ( right ) and Turkish Foreign Minister Hakan Fidan arrive for a joint press conference at the Ministry headquarters in Ankara on December 13 , 2024 . AFP <p> US Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Friday told Turkey it was " imperative " to work against a resurgence of the Islamic State ( IS ) group in Syria following the fall of Bashar al-Assad . <p> The top US diplomat also said he saw " encouraging signs " on reaching a ceasefire in the war-torn Gaza Strip . <p> His remarks came on the second leg of a whirlwind regional tour following Bashar al-Assad 's ouster in a lightning offensive spearheaded by Islamist-led HTS rebels , ending five decades of repressive rule by his clan . <p> He flew to Turkey on Thursday evening where he met for more than an hour with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan at Ankara airport , a US official said . <p> " Our country worked very hard and gave a lot over many years to ensure the elimination of the territorial caliphate of ISIS ( IS ) , to ensure that threat does n't rear its head again , " Blinken said . <p> On Thursday , Erdogan assured Blinken Turkey would never ease up in the fight against IS in Syria , despite its operations against Kurdish fighters seen as key to containing the extremists . <p> " Turkey will never allow any weakness to arise in the fight against ISIS , " Erdogan said while vowing not to let up in its pursuit of groups Ankara sees as a threat to its national security . <p> As the Islamist-led rebels marched on Damascus , Turkey and its proxies began their own offensive against the Kurdish-led SDF ( Syrian Democratic Forces ) . <p> Turkey sees the SDF as an extension of the banned PKK ( Kurdistan Workers ' Party ) that has fought a decades-long insurgency on Turkish soil . <p> But Washington sees the force as a key ally for spearheading an offensive that defeated IS 's self-declared caliphate in Syria in 2019 , with Blinken saying Thursday the SDF was " critical " to preventing a jihadist resurgence there . <p> The fighting between the two proxy forces has raised concern about the NATO allies ' competing interests in Syria . <p> Faik Bulut , an expert on the Kurdish question , told AFP Turkey was likely seeking " to take advantage of the vacuum to cleanse the region " of Kurdish fighters . <p> That way Erdogan could " be in a position of strength " during talks with incoming US president Donald Trump , he assessed . <p> With Turkey 's own powerful military , control over its Syrian proxy forces and influence over the HTS rebels that ousted Assad , Erdogan could likely tell Trump : " ' Hand this region to me and I will destroy ISIS . Give me responsibility and you 'll see ' , " Balut said . <p> Blinken also said he saw " encouraging signs " of progress toward a ceasefire in the Gaza Strip , urging Turkey to use its influence to encourage Hamas to accept . <p> " We discussed Gaza , and we discussed I think the opportunity ... to get a ceasefire in place . And what we 've seen in the last couple of weeks are more encouraging signs that that is possible , " Blinken said . <p> Blinken , who leaves office next month following Trump 's election victory , began his tour in Jordan on Thursday on his 12th visit to the Middle East since the October 7 , 2023 Hamas attack on Israel that triggered the Gaza war . <p> " We talked about the imperative of Hamas saying ' yes ' to the agreement that 's possible , to finally help bring this to an end , " he said . <p> " We appreciate very much the role Turkey can play in using its voice with Hamas to try to bring this to conclusion . " <p> Turkey has long had close ties with Hamas , viewing it as a national liberation movement rather than a proscribed terror organisation like most Western nations . <p> A blistering critic of Israel , Erdogan has frequently hosted Hamas ' political leaders who have used Istanbul as one of their foreign bases during his two-decade rule . 
@@118883183 <p> NEW YORK , 13 December 2024 -- " Yesterday , in yet another devastating attack on Nuseirat camp , in central Gaza , 33 people were reportedly killed -- including at least eight children -- and 50 wounded by airstrikes . The latest violence adds to a staggering figure of more than 160 children reportedly killed in Gaza in a little over a month . That is an average of four children every day since the beginning of November . <p> " Children did n't start this conflict and they have no power to stop it , yet they are paying the highest price with their lives and futures . In the last 14 months , more than 14,500 children have reportedly been killed , and virtually all 1.1 million children in Gaza are in urgent need of protection and mental health support . Famine continues to loom in the north and humanitarian access remains severely restricted . <p> " Children and families throughout Gaza face constant displacement , which has pushed 1.9 million people away from their homes , including hundreds of thousands of children . There is no safe space in Gaza , nor any sense of stability for children , who lack essentials such as food , safe water , medical supplies , and warm clothes as winter temperatures drop . Preventable diseases continue to rapidly spread , including more than 800 cases of hepatitis , and more than 300 cases of chickenpox . Thousands of children are suffering from skin rashes and acute respiratory infections . Winter weather is adding to children 's suffering . <p> " The world can not look away when so many children are exposed to daily bloodshed , hunger , disease , and cold . We urgently call on all parties to the conflict , and on those with influence over them , to take decisive action to end the suffering of children , to release all hostages , to ensure children 's rights are upheld , and to adhere to obligations under international humanitarian law . " 
@@118884514 <p> The Standard Group Plc is a multi-media organization with investments in media platforms spanning newspaper print operations , television , radio broadcasting , digital and online services . The Standard Group is recognized as a leading multi-media house in Kenya with a key influence in matters of national and international interest . <h> DIGGER CLASSIFIED <h> Syria after Assad : Should we celebrate or worry ? <h> JavaScript is disabled ! <p> Please enable JavaScript to read this content . <p> Syrian residents in Turkey cheer as they celebrate the end of the Baath rule in Syria after rebel fighters took control of Damascus overnight , at the Fatih Mosque , in Istanbul , on December 8 , 2024 . AFP <p> The long reign by father and son in Syria , spanning 50 years , came to an end as fast it began . It ended in disgrace , the son going into exile and father 's grave desecrated . <p> The Assads have led Syria since 1971 . Hafez al Assad handing over to his son , Bashar al-Assad , in 2000 . <p> Power is intoxicating and strange . Why would a family sacrifice so many lives to stay in power , with millions ending up as refugees ? Remember the Syrian civil war in 2011 , the deaths and refugees . <p> UNHCR puts the number of Syrian refugees at 14 million in a population of 23 million . Syrian network for human rights puts deaths from civil war since 2011 at over 230,000 . <p> Watching the behaviour of political leaders who stay in power for too long -- from Mobutu in Congo to Assads in Syria , or Duvaliers in Haiti and many others countries -- I marvel at the similarity between political power and witchcraft . Both are hard to explain , both bring tragedies and sorrow . <p> Why do such leaders cling to power when the masses do not want them ? Why does power become so intoxicating that we even want to pass it to the next generation , to remain in the family ? Why does political power at times supersede human lives ? Why is power often associated with human suffering , yet it 's supposed to alleviate it ? <p> What can one do in power that ca n't be done when out of power , including pursuing your own interests or just resting ? Is leading millions not taxing enough ? Note how political leaders ' hair greys fast while in office . You wonder why political leaders ( and some corporate leaders too ) want to prolong their stay in office when our own lifespans are limited . <p> The problem seems to start with cross-pollinating political power with quasi-religious ceremonies , which eventually makes one feel invincible . Think of campaigns , voting , swearing and related ceremonies . They add to the mystic of power and its intoxication . <p> If the process of getting power was simplified , maybe it could become less intoxicating and less risky to society . In UK , from where we picked lots of our political ceremonies , the king or queen is the head of the Anglican Church . Watch the inauguration of Donald Trump next month . <p> Extremist leaders <p> The Greeks invented democracy to ensure rulers get the consent of the ruled . With a term limit , voters can kick out non-performers . Sadly , some leaders ignore that or rig the polls . Such leaders become extremists , often using repression to remain in power . Psychology seems to suggest they are usually powerless , lacking confidence and maturity , and they compensate for that by going to extremes including killing opponents . <p> Back to the Assad family . Now they are out of power and secure in Moscow , Russia . My observation is that the longer leaders stay in power the more chaos they leave behind . <p> Look at Haiti after Duvalier family left . That is why Kenyan policemen are there . Libya after Gaddafi , Zimbabwe after Mugabe , Iraq after Saddam Hussein , Yugoslavia after Broz Tito . We can make the list longer . <p> That is why we should worry over Syria without Assads . Will the country slide into chaos like the list we have shared ? <p> The problem with leaders who overstay in power is that they seal all political safety valves , leaving citizens with pent-up anger and grudges . When citizens get that opportunity , usually after the end of a regime , they have a lot to sort , often violently . <p> The Assad family , like others before , left the country to enjoy their lives elsewhere . The rest of the citizens can sort themselves out . The destinations are usually countries that have vested interests in the countries they leave behind . Russia has geopolitical interests in Syria with a naval and air force base . <p> One wishes leaders are like Jesus or shepherds , never forsaking their flocks . They should be like ship captains , the last to leave a sinking ship . <p> What next for Syria ? <p> It 's an open question why Syrian allies such as Iran , Russia and Hezbollah did not help Assad as they did in 2011 . Were they distracted by war in Lebanon , Gaza and Ukraine ? Did the wars in Lebanon and Gaza have such geopolitical significance ? <p> Trouble in Syria has already started with Israel settling grudges before the new leaders settle in . They have occupied part of Golan Heights and destroyed military assets , not to fall to the wrong hands . They seem to believe an elephant does not die with its tusks . <p> Which other countries will follow suit -- Turkiye , Russia , Iran or USA ? They all have strategic interest in Syria . Will the fall of Assad have more geopolitical repercussions ? Will the fall stem the rising Russian influence particularly in the Sahel ? <p> The new Syrian leaders belong to the former rebel group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , led by Abu Mohammed al-Jolani . HTS has to compete with other groups that fought against Assad . Each group has its sponsors , which raises the stakes further . Will they come together as partners or fight each other ? <p> Will the current leader get intoxicated with power and behave like the leaders they have replaced ? Will the Alawite-Sunni differences be amplified or muted ? <p> It 's too early to predict . But one wishes all the rival groups can sit and share power . Syria is for all Syrians and 50 years plus of Assad rule were bad enough . <p> Let reason return to this beautiful land , and children grow into adults and to their potential , more so as Christmas approaches . Remember Damascus in the Bible ? This should be Syria 's Damascus moment -- after all Damascus is Syria 's capital . 
@@118933941 <p> The war in the Palestinian territories is having a catastrophic impact on the local economy , the World Bank said Monday , noting that all sectors have been badly affected by Israel 's attacks . <p> Economic output in the Gaza Strip plummeted by 86 percent in the first half of this year , and by 23 percent in the West Bank , according to recent Bank data , leaving the Palestinian economy on track to contract by 26 percent in inflation-adjusted terms this year . <p> " The ongoing conflict in the Middle East continues to have a catastrophic impact on the Palestinian economy , pushing the territories into a crisis of unprecedented magnitude , " the bank said in a statement . <p> " The continuation of the hostilities has led to a sharp reduction in economic output and a collapse of basic services in both the West Bank and Gaza , amid skyrocketing poverty across the territories , " it added . <p> The war in Gaza was sparked by Hamas 's October 7 , 2023 attack on Israel that resulted in the deaths of 1,208 people , mostly civilians , according to an AFP tally of Israeli official figures . <p> Since then , Israel 's retaliatory offensive has killed at least 44,976 people in Gaza , a majority of them civilians , according to figures from the Hamas-run territory 's health ministry that the United Nations considers reliable . <p> Violence has also spread to the occupied West Bank , where much of the growth in the Palestinian economy took place before the war began . <p> Inflation in Gaza rose 300 percent in the 12 months to October , with food prices surging by 440 percent , and energy prices by more than 200 percent due to major supply disruptions and the difficulty of getting food aid to people in need , the Bank said . <p> As a result , 91 percent of Gaza 's population " is on the brink of acute food insecurity , " the Bank said , citing a recent report , adding that 875,000 people faced " emergency levels of food insecurity , " while 345,000 were at " catastrophic " levels . <p> More broadly , all the basic structures of Gazan society have been destroyed : communications networks have been almost entirely destroyed , despite the efforts of local operators to maintain connectivity . 
@@118986820 <h> Ask about this document <h> Gaza : Nearly one million Palestinians face winter without shelter <p> Only 23 per cent of Gaza 's shelter needs have been met this autumn , leaving nearly one million Palestinians vulnerable to exposure during the harsh winter months , according to the Norwegian Refugee Council-led Shelter Cluster in Palestine . <p> The Shelter Cluster estimated in September that 2,000 trucks of tents or 200 trucks of sealing-off kits were urgently needed to provide basic winter protection for 1.13 million displaced Palestinians in Gaza . By late November , only 285,000 displaced people had received essential shelter materials . Since early October , Israel 's offensive and siege on North Gaza have displaced an additional 100,000 Palestinians , and in total 945,000 people are now in need of shelter assistance . <p> The entry of shelter materials into Gaza has decreased as flour , essential to address growing starvation , is being prioritised for transport through Gate 96 along the Fence Road , the most secure route for aid convoys . The Shelter Cluster urges donor governments to press Israel to allow the entry of weather-proofing materials and ensure safe access for humanitarian workers to reach vulnerable Palestinians throughout Gaza . <p> " We 've received only a fraction of the aid required to address the shelter crisis , " said Jeroen Quanjer , Shelter Cluster chair in Palestine . " Hundreds of thousands of displaced families are enduring the winter cold and rain without meaningful protection . Israeli authorities ' repeated denial of essential shelter materials prevents us from scaling up our response to build emergency shelters that can withstand Gaza 's winter conditions . " <p> A winter storm in late November flooded displacement sites , destroying tents and makeshift shelters and forcing many families to relocate . At least 101 displacement sites south of Wadi Gaza , hosting 450,720 Palestinians , are prone to flooding . <p> " We woke up to water flooding our tents , " said Mahmoud , a displaced Palestinian in central Gaza 's Deir al-Balah city . " Our children were asleep as the water reached them . Our mattresses and clothes are ruined . Now , there 's nothing left , just a lake of water . I 'm trying to salvage what 's left , but I feel abandoned . No one seems to care , neither the Arab world nor decision-makers . We 've been left on our own . " <p> Repeated displacements have forced families to leave behind essential shelter materials , often fleeing with only what they can carry . Many tents and supplies provided by aid agencies over the past year are now unusable due to wear and tear . Replacement supplies have been scarce as shelter materials entering Gaza have drastically decreased in recent months . <p> Between 1 September and 25 November , only 123 trucks carrying shelter assistance entered Gaza -- an average of just ten trucks per week . Many of these trucks included items not directly related to winterisation , such as mattresses and bedding . The limited supplies of tents and sealing-off kits , which include tarpaulins , plastic sheets , rope , and duct tape , have been insufficient to meet the overwhelming needs . <p> The Shelter Cluster calls for immediate action to address the shelter crisis in Gaza , warning that further delays in delivering critical supplies will leave hundreds of thousands of Palestinians exposed to life-threatening conditions this winter . <p> Only 23 per cent of winter shelter needs in Gaza have been met this autumn , leaving 945,000 Palestinians in need . ( Shelter Cluster ) . There are around 58,000 sealing off kits and over 36,000 tarpaulins procured and ready to be brought into Gaza that would serve around 76,000 families or about 400,000 people , which would still leave 44 per cent of winter shelter needs unmet . <p> The list of items currently provided by the Shelter Cluster includes sealing-off kits and bedding sets ( Shelter Cluster ) . <p> Temperatures in Gaza can fall to as low as 6C , with an average cumulative rainfall of 53 cm during winter . <p> With limited space to shelter safely , Palestinians in Gaza are exposed to the risks of hypothermia and other severe health conditions ( WHO ) . <p> The Shelter Cluster in Palestine supports people affected by disasters and internally displaced people affected by conflict with the means to live in safe , dignified and appropriate shelter . It enables enables better coordination among shelter actors so that people who need shelter assistance get help faster and receive the right kind of support . 
@@118988443 <h> JavaScript is disabled ! Please enable JavaScript in your web browser ! <p> ? <p> The Standard Group Plc is a multi-media organization with investments in media platforms spanning newspaper print operations , television , radio broadcasting , digital and online services . The Standard Group is recognized as a leading multi-media house in Kenya with a key influence in matters of national and international interest . <h> How businesses are seeking Christmas boom amid the gloom <p> With just a week to the start of the Christmas and New Year festivities , businesses have intensified efforts to woo customers with a wide range of attractive offers featuring drastic price cuts on various goods and services . <p> The season is traditionally a time of heightened consumer spending and despite a year marked by economic challenges that have hit many people 's spending powers , businesses still consider it a golden opportunity to boost their sales and revitalise their struggling bottom lines . <p> The rising cost of living squeeze , job losses , the lingering effects of the Covid-19 crisis and the wars in Ukraine and Gaza have placed significant pressure on households and businesses alike by suppressing economic growth and thus money in people 's pockets and bank accounts respectively . <p> Still , for many businesses , Christmas is not just a holiday ; it is a critical time to recover from the financial setbacks experienced throughout the year . <p> Retailers , hotels , restaurants , and service providers are all keenly aware of the potential that this season holds . With the right strategies , they can not only survive but thrive during this crucial period . <p> In anticipation of the festive rush , businesses across various sectors have begun their preparations early . According to a spot check by Financial Standard retail stores are rolling out promotions and discounts to attract shoppers looking for gifts and holiday essentials . Many have also increased their inventory , ensuring that they can meet the expected demand . <p> Naivas Supermarkets , for instance , has launched the Krisi Kikwetu promotion , which has seen the prices of household goods slashed . To sweeten the deal , the retail chain is also giving away over 200 goats to lucky shoppers during the festive season . <p> Carrefour Kenya is another retain chain to slash prices under its Furahia Krisi promotion . <p> For hotels , particularly in tourist hotspots such as Mombasa , Malindi and Naivasha , they have also come up with attractive packages to woo those who will be visiting for the festivities . <p> Leading hotels such as Sarova Whitesands , Sarova Beach Hotel Diani , Vogayor Beach Resort , Pine Breeze Holiday Resort , Maasai Resort and Royal Shaza Suites in Mombasa are offering deals of up to 62 per cent reduction in the cost of accommodation . <p> Tour and travel agencies have also not been left behind . Trippy Go Tour and Travel agency , for instance , is offering a five days and nights holiday bargain to Mombasa , Diani , Watamu and Malindi from as low as Sh46,000 per person sharing , inclusive of meals , return Standard Gauge Railway ( SGR ) train tickets , transfers and accommodation . <p> In Naivasha , leading hotels offering packages for the festive season include Karmel Resort Naivasha , Lake Naivasha Resort , Dove Nest Lodge , the Great Rift Valley Lodge and Golf Resort and Panorama among others . <p> " We are excited to see a surge in inquiries for accommodation and other activities from visitors and enthusiasts worldwide , especially as we approach the Christmas season . While our hotels are fully booked , we 're looking forward to a festive time that will boost our sales , " said Alex Mugo , director of Karmel Resort , a popular garden resort along the Naivasha-Kinangop Road , in an interview . <p> The picturesque landscapes surrounding the lakeside town have for years drawn both local and international visitors giving stiff competition to other destinations mainly because of its distance from Nairobi . Naivas Supermarkets has launched the Krisi Kikwetu promotion , which has seen the prices of household goods slashed . To sweeten the deal , the retail chain is also giving away over 200 goats to lucky shoppers during the festive season . File , Standard <p> As of late November , many hotels in the area reported being fully booked - a promising sign for the hospitality industry . This influx of tourists is expected to bring in much-needed revenue and create temporary jobs for locals . <p> Many hotels are promoting special packages that include meals , guided tours , and festive entertainment . This not only enhances the guest experience but also encourages longer stays , maximising revenue . <p> Local businesses , including restaurants and tour operators , also benefit from the influx of tourists , creating a ripple effect throughout the economy . <p> The festive season is also set to boost the transport sector due to a surge in travel . Many families who intend to join their loved ones have already started to book transport in a bid to avoid the chaos that is usually experienced on Christmas Eve . <p> Industry players say the demand this year is higher than in previous years despite many Kenyans taking a hit from the economic downturn experienced this year amid increased taxation . <p> A spot check by Financial Standard revealed that many bus and shuttle companies plying the Western and Nyanza routes , among others , have their fleets fully booked until after Christmas Day . <p> Nairobi residents have been scrambling from the few vehicles available , with many left stranded at various termini in the Central Business District ( CBK ) from last week . <p> A passenger , Joel Sifuna , who was seeking transport to Bungoma called on PSV operators to reduce fares , noting that fuel prices have been on a downward trend . <p> " The Energy and Petroleum Regulatory Authority recently reduced pump prices for super petrol dropped by Sh4.37 and diesel and kerosene by Sh3 respectively and PSVs should consider passing the benefit to passengers since many Kenyans are suffering as a result of the high cost of living and would appreciate if they can spare some money to buy food for Christmas , " said Sifuna . <p> He noted that the fare to Bungoma is currently almost Sh2,000 and is expected to go up as Christmas Day approaches . <p> The Madaraka Express train service between Nairobi and Mombasa is also fully booked , with many people using it as it is cheaper than flying to the Coast . <p> From Sunday , Kenya Railways ( KR ) introduced a night stopover in Voi , giving residents of Taita Taveta travelling from Mombasa three minutes to disembark . <p> The move follows a recent appeal to President William Ruto during the recent commissioning of the Devki iron ore plant in Manga . <p> " The Kenya Railways is pleased to announce that effective December 15 , the 10pm Madaraka Express passenger service train to and from Nairobi terminus will now take a 3-minute stopover at Voi station , " KR said . <p> Various airlines have also added the number of flights to cater to the increased demand . <p> Manufacturers of electronic goods such as phones have also unveiled special Christmas offers . <p> Chinese manufacturer , Tecno has , for instance , unveiled the " Tecno Christmas Fiesta " , which features slashed prices for various smartphones , running from December 1-31 . <p> While the rate of inflation continues to decrease , Kenyans will have to spend more to buy foodstuffs . <p> According to the Central Bank of Kenya Agriculture Sector Survey , the balance of opinion ( BOO ) on expected price changes this month shows the number of items whose prices are expected to increase is almost the same as those with a downward price expectation . <p> BOO is the difference between the proportion of respondents who express a positive opinion and the proportion who express a negative opinion . <p> On balance , the BOO , however , points to an expected general decline in prices of several key food items one month ahead , that is , in December 2024 , and expected increases in a few food items in line with seasonal factors . <p> For instance , most respondents expect an increase in tomato prices as market supply is likely to be impacted by the October-December rain season . <p> The expected increase in tomato prices is largely driven by seasonal factors as tomato supply tends to decline during the rainy season and increase when dry conditions set in. 
@@119008073 <p> Amos Khaemba , a journalist at TUKO.co.ke , brings over three years of experience covering politics and current affairs in Kenya . <p> Nairobi -- Daystar University has announced the revocation of its deal with Israel , which sought to establish a green space at the university dubbed Zion Forest . <p> Signing of MoU between Daystar University and Israel ( left ) and aftermath of Israel-Hamas war ( right ) . Photo : Israel in Kenya/Getty Images.Source : UGC <p> The decision by the university on Wednesday , December 18 , follows public backlash over the war in Gaza . <h> Why Daystar University cancelled deal with Israel <p> A section of Kenyans took social media to criticise the recent Memorandum of Understanding ( MOU ) between Daystar University and the Israeli embassy in Kenya , arguing that it goes against the principles of the institution . <p> Those leading the campaign against the deal stated that it indirectly endorses the ongoing conflict and human rights violations inflicted upon the Palestinian people by the Israeli state . <p> Some had questioned the appropriateness of the deal given the ongoing war between Israel and Hamas over the last 14 days , which has seen more than 45,000 Palestinians killed . <p> While revoking the deal , Daystar University Vice Chancellor Laban Ayiro said the institution does not support the humanitarian conflicts in the Middle East . <p> " We are not in any way supporting the ongoing humanitarian conflict in the Middle East . Daystar University esteems the sanctity of life and advocates for the peaceful co-existence of humanity , " Ayiro said . <h> What was the deal between Israel and Daystar University ? <p> On Monday , December 16 , Israel Ambassador to Kenya Michael Lotem signed a Memorandum of Understanding ( MoU ) with Ayiro , which would see the planting of 5,000 indigenous trees on the Daystar University campus . <p> Yahel Margovsky-Lotem , an Israel national and First Lady Mama Rachel Ruto , initiated the project . <p> " This project , initiated by Yahel Margovsky-Lotem and the First Lady Mama RachelRuto , will see the planting of over 5,000 indigenous trees on the campus , creating a vibrant green space that will enhance the learning environment for students and enrich the lives of the local community . The Zion Forest will stand as a monument of friendship between the nations of Israel and Kenya , and in defiance of the global threat of terrorism , " Israel embassy said in a tweet. 
@@119021563 <p> Daystar University has rescinded a deal it signed with the Israel Embassy in Kenya on Monday which would have seen the Asian nation plant over 5,000 indigenous trees at the institution 's main campus in Athi River , as part of a collective ecosystem dubbed the Zion Forest . <p> The decision was announced by Daystar Vice Chancellor Prof. Laban Ayiro in a statement on Wednesday . This followed a public outcry by a section of Kenyans on social media who called out the institution for striking the deal with Israel amid its role in the ongoing Gaza war with Palestine which has led to the deaths of approximately 45,000 Palestinians . <p> In the statement , Prof. Ayiro stressed that the institution has remained neutral regarding the Gaza War and values the sanctity of all life . <p> " We are not in any way supporting the ongoing humanitarian conflict in the Middle East . Daystar University esteems the sanctity of life and advocates for the peaceful co-existence of humanity , " Ayiro was quoted by the Nation . <p> Israeli Ambassador to Kenya Michael Lotem and Prof. Ayiro signed the MoU on Monday with the Israeli Embassy announcing it in a statement on X. <p> The Israeli Embassy stated that the creation of the Zion Forest project would provide a dynamic green space , enriching the learning environment for students at Daystar University 's Athi River Campus and augmenting ties between Nairobi and Jerusalem . <p> The project was initiated by First Lady Rachel Ruto and Yahel Margovsky-Lotem , the spouse to ambassador Michael Lotem. 
@@119134082 <p> US Double Standards : Only our enemies commit war crimesPosted on December 21st , 2024 <h> By Connor Echols <p> A half-baked report highlights the double standard US officials use for IsraelMay 13 , 2024 <p> On NBC 's Meet the Press Sunday , Secretary of State Antony Blinken struck back at claims that U.S. officials let Israel dodge American laws regarding weapons transfers . <p> We do n't have double standards , " Blinken said . We treat Israel , one of our closest allies and partners , just as we would treat any other country , including in assessing something like international humanitarian law and its compliance with that law . " <p> Luckily for observers , Blinken has left a substantial public record against which one can test this claim . His own department 's statements and actions undercut this supposed impartiality . Indeed , all available evidence indicates that U.S. officials hold Israel to a lower standard than just about any other country . <p> Take the State Department 's long-awaited report on Israel 's compliance with international law in Gaza , which came out late last week . The administration found that Israel had likely used U.S. weapons to commit war crimes but said there was n't enough evidence to draw clear conclusions about specific incidents . The upshot is that , from the Biden administration 's perspective , there is no legal reason to cut off U.S. arms transfers to Israel at this time . <p> In Blinken 's telling , any more forceful conclusions would have been impossible given the incredibly complex military environment " in Gaza . It 's very , very difficult in the heat of war to make a definitive assessment about any individual incident , " he said Sunday . <p> But that very , very difficult " operating environment did n't stop the State Department from drawing strong conclusions about Hamas ' actions in the very same report . In a three-page defense of Israel 's campaign -- a feature not present in similar reports on other states -- U.S. officials found with great clarity that Hamas uses human shields , intentionally targets civilians , and consistently violates " the laws of war . <p> Observers are left to conclude that the U.S. has somehow attained more definitive inside information about Hamas than Israel , one of America 's closest military partners . This is in part why an independent panel of legal experts and former officials said the report was at best incomplete , and at worst intentionally misleading in defense of acts and behaviors that likely violate international humanitarian law . " <p> Once again , the Biden Administration has stared the facts in the face -- and then pulled the curtains shut , " the panel , which includes two former senior officials at the State Department , wrote in a statement . <p> Notably , Blinken 's ' fog-of-war ' standard only appears to apply to Israel . In other contexts , the U.S. does not find it difficult at all to assess violations of international law , " Sarah Yager , the Washington director at Human Rights Watch , told reporters Monday . <p> Yager pointed to the case of Russia 's full-scale invasion of Ukraine , about which it took Blinken less than a month to announce that war crimes had been committed by Putin 's forces . " Based on information currently available , the U.S. government assesses that members of Russia 's forces have committed war crimes in Ukraine , " he said . <p> Indeed , Blinken has even accused Russia of ongoing war crimes in Ukraine , suggesting that he 's capable of making such determinations on the fly . Russian forces and officials have committed -- and continue to commit -- war crimes and crimes against humanity in Ukraine , " he said in early 2023 . <p> The standard also does n't seem to apply to the warring factions in Sudan . Seven months after the start of a brutal civil war in that country , Blinken declared that both sides have committed war crimes " in the latest conflict , a conclusion he based on the State Department 's careful analysis of the law and available facts . " <p> In the cases of Sudan and Russia , the State Department leaned heavily on reports from NGOs and human rights advocates , who conducted key investigations of alleged crimes . As it happens , those very same organizations haverepeatedlyfound that Israel isviolating international law in its campaign in Gaza , but Blinken has apparently chosen to ignore their conclusions . <p> What the report says is that it 's very difficult in these circumstances where security partners are engaged in armed conflict for the United States to assess violations of international law , " Yager said . We know it 's difficult because we did that work , and we presented the evidence to the U.S. government . " <p> * Connor Echols is the managing editor of the Nonzero Newsletter and a former reporter for Responsible Statecraft . Echols received his bachelor 's degree from Northwestern University , where he studied journalism and Middle East and North African Studies . <p> We remind our readers that publication of articles on our site does not mean that we agree with what is written . Our policy is to publish anything which we consider of interest , so as to assist our readers in forming their opinions . Sometimes we even publish articles with which we totally disagree , since we believe it is important for our readers to be informed on as wide a spectrum of views as possible . <h> Leave a Reply <p> Disclaimer : The comments contained within this website are personal reflection only and do not necessarily reflect the views of the LankaWeb . LankaWeb.com offers the contents of this website without charge , but does not necessarily endorse the views and opinions expressed within . Neither the LankaWeb nor the individual authors of any material on this Web site accept responsibility for any loss or damage , however caused ( including through negligence ) , which you may directly or indirectly suffer arising out of your use of or reliance on information contained on or accessed through this Web site . All views and opinions presented in this article are solely those of the surfer and do not necessarily represent those of LankaWeb.com . <p> This entry was posted on Saturday , December 21st , 2024 . You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 feed . You can skip to the end and leave a response . 
@@119143656 <p> Pope Francis on Saturday again condemned Israeli airstrikes in Gaza , a day after an Israeli government minister publicly denounced the pontiff for suggesting the global community should study whether the military offensive there constitutes a genocide of the Palestinian people . <p> Francis opened his annual Christmas address to the Catholic cardinals who lead the Vatican 's various departments with what appeared to be a reference to Israeli airstrikes on Friday that killed at least 25 Palestinians in Gaza . <p> " Yesterday , children were bombed , " said the pope . " This is cruelty . This is not war . I wanted to say this because it touches the heart . " <p> The pope , as leader of the 1.4-billion-member Roman Catholic Church , is usually careful about taking sides in conflicts , but he has recently been more outspoken about Israel 's military campaign against Palestinian militant group Hamas . <p> In book excerpts published last month , the pontiff said some international experts said that " what is happening in Gaza has the characteristics of a genocide " . <p> Israeli Minister of Diaspora Affairs Amichai Chikli sharply criticised those comments in an unusual open letter published by Italian newspaper Il Foglio on Friday . Chikli said the pope 's remarks amounted to a " trivialisation " of the term genocide . <p> Francis also said on Saturday that the Catholic bishop of Jerusalem , known as a patriarch , had tried to enter the Gaza Strip on Friday to visit Catholics there , but was denied entry . <p> The patriarch 's office told Reuters it was not able to comment on the pope 's remarks about the patriarch being denied entry . <p> Israeli officials were not immediately reachable for comment on Saturday , the Jewish Sabbath , and the Israeli military did not immediately respond to a request for comment . <p> The war began when Hamas-led Palestinian militants attacked southern Israeli communities on Oct. 7 , 2023 , killing 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and taking more than 250 hostages back to Gaza , according to Israeli authorities . <p> Israel 's retaliatory campaign , which it says is aimed at eliminating Hamas , has killed more than 45,000 people , mostly civilians , according to authorities in the Hamas-run Gaza Strip . <p> The campaign has displaced nearly the entire population and left much of the enclave in ruins . <p> Israel says that at least a third of the dead have been militants and it says it tries to avoid harm to civilians but is battling militants who it accuses of embedding among the population in dense urban areas . Hamas rejects this . 
@@119152182 <p> The Standard Group Plc is a multi-media organization with investments in media platforms spanning newspaper print operations , television , radio broadcasting , digital and online services . The Standard Group is recognized as a leading multi-media house in Kenya with a key influence in matters of national and international interest . <h> DIGGER CLASSIFIED <h> Yemen rebels strike Israel 's Tel Aviv in pre-dawn missile attack <h> Loading Article ... <p> For the best experience , please enable JavaScript in your browser settings . <p> Israeli emergency responders inspect a crater at the site where a projectile fired from Yemen landed , in Tel Aviv on December 21 , 2024 . AFP <p> A missile fired from Yemen by Iran-backed Huthi rebels struck Israel 's commercial hub of Tel Aviv before dawn on Saturday , wounding 16 people in the second such attack within days . <p> Israel 's military said it had failed to intercept the missile , which hit a district of Tel Aviv municipality , forcing many residents to leave their homes in the early hours of Saturday . <p> The Huthis claimed responsibility for the attack , saying it used a ballistic missile directed at " a military target of the Israeli enemy . " <p> The rebels have repeatedly launched missile attacks against Israel in solidarity with Palestinians since the war in Gaza began more than a year ago , most of which have been intercepted . <p> In return , Israel has struck multiple targets in Yemen , including ports and energy facilities in areas controlled by the Huthis . <p> " Following the sirens that sounded a short while ago in central Israel , one projectile launched from Yemen was identified and unsuccessful interception attempts were made , " the Israeli military said on its Telegram channel . <p> " I was at home and heard a loud explosion . I immediately went to the scene and saw significant blast damage to nearby buildings , " medic Yosef Kourdi was quoted as saying in a statement released by MDA . <p> " MDA teams provided medical care to 16 individuals who were mildly injured by glass shards from shattered windows in nearby buildings due to the impact of the strike , " the statement said . <p> Ido Barnea , an IT manager whose apartment was damaged , told AFP a missile alert had sounded just before 4:00 am . <p> " Then there was a big ball of fire in the sky , " he said . " I did n't even manage to get up and get dressed to go out . " <p> An AFP photographer reported that many residents in the vicinity of the strike had to leave their homes , carrying only the essentials . <p> AFP images showed a large crater where the missile fell , and debris in the bedroom of a nearby house that was damaged . <p> " We were very lucky because we did n't have time to get to a safe place . Within seconds there was a boom . We managed to get out and so we were not hurt , " she said . <p> The Huthi rebels say they are acting in support of Palestinians , and pledged in their statement on Saturday to continue operations " until the aggression stops and the siege on the Gaza Strip is lifted " . <p> The strike came just two days after the rebels fired a missile at Israel that damaged a school . <p> Israel said that missile had been intercepted and the school was hit by its falling debris . <p> Israel later struck several Huthi sites in Yemen , including in Sanaa -- the first such strike in the rebel-held capital . <p> " The Israeli enemy targeted ports in Hodeida and power stations in Sanaa , and the Israeli aggression resulted in the martyrdom of nine civilian martyrs , " rebel leader Abdul Malik al-Huthi said in a lengthy speech broadcast by the rebels ' Al-Masira TV. 
@@119166013 <h> US warplane shot down in Red Sea ' friendly fire ' incident <p> An American fighter jet has been shot down over the Red Sea in an apparent " friendly fire " incident , the US military has said . <p> Both crew from the US Navy F/A-18 Hornet ejected safely , with one suffering minor injuries , according to Central Command . <p> The incident came after the US carried out a series of air strikes against a missile storage site and command facilities in the Yemeni capital Sanaa operated by Iran-backed Houthi militants . <p> US Central Command added it also hit multiple Houthi drones and an anti-ship cruise missile over the Red Sea . <p> In a statement , US Central Command confirmed a " friendly fire " incident over the Red Sea . <p> " The guided missile cruiser USS Gettysburg , which is part of the USS Harry S Truman Carrier Strike Group , mistakenly fired on and hit the F/A-18 , which was flying off the USS Harry S Truman , " the statement said . <p> It is not clear whether the downed aircraft had been involved in the Yemen operation . <p> Earlier Central Command said the strikes against targets in Sanaa aimed to " disrupt and degrade Houthi operations , such as attacks against US Navy warships and merchant vessels in the Southern Red Sea , Bab al-Mandeb , and Gulf of Aden " . <p> The US military also said it struck " multiple Houthi one-way attack uncrewed aerial vehicles , or drones , and an anti-ship cruise missile over the Red Sea " using " US Air Force and US Navy assets , including F/A-18s " . <p> The Houthis , an Iran-backed rebel group that controls north-western Yemen , began attacking Israeli and international shipping shortly after the start of the Gaza war in October 2023 , saying they were acting in solidarity with Palestinians . <p> Since November 2023 , Houthi missile attacks have sunk two vessels in the Red Sea and damaged others . They have claimed , often falsely , that they are targeting ships only linked to Israel , the US or the UK. 
@@119181814 <p> Misr El Kheir Foundation ( MEK ) and Islamic Relief Worldwide have officially signed a 3-year Memorandum of Understanding ( MoU ) to collaborate on critical humanitarian and development projects aimed at serving vulnerable communities in Gaza and Egypt . <p> The signing ceremony in Cairo was attended by the British Ambassador to Egypt , HMA Gareth Bayley , and the Egyptian Assistant Minister of Social Solidarity for Civil Society , Dr Ayman Abdel Mojoud , underscoring the importance of this partnership in fostering international collaboration and addressing pressing humanitarian challenges . <p> This partnership reflects a shared commitment to alleviating suffering and empowering individuals in need . The projects will benefit Egyptians , as well as Palestinians residing in Egypt , and will focus on addressing the urgent and long-term needs of the targeted communities . <p> Key areas of collaboration <p> The MoU outlines a range of impactful initiatives designed to address pressing challenges and contribute to sustainable development , including : <p> Seasonal programmes : Providing vital support during key periods such as winterization , Ramadan , qurbani , and back-to-school campaigns . <p> Orphan sponsorship : Ensuring the well-being and development of orphaned children through sustained care and support . <p> Education : Enhancing access to quality education for underprivileged children and youth . <p> Waseem Ahmad , CEO of Islamic Relief Worldwide , added , " Collaborations like this one are critical in addressing the multifaceted challenges faced by vulnerable populations . We look forward to working hand-in-hand with Misr El Kheir to bring transformative change to communities in Gaza and Egypt . " <p> British Ambassador to Egypt , Gareth Bayley said : " This three-year partnership between Misr El Kheir Foundation and Islamic Relief Worldwide represents a powerful collaboration between Egypt and the UK to respond to the urgent needs of the vulnerable communities , including Egyptians and Palestinians residing in Egypt . The UK continues to work closely with Egypt and values its efforts in alleviating the humanitarian situation in Gaza . Together , we can make a significant impact on the lives of those in need , by addressing humanitarian challenges and fostering sustainable development . I am proud to witness this milestone in UK-Egypt partnership , through the collaboration between Misr El Kheir and Islamic Relief Worldwide , and commend both organisations for taking this crucial step towards alleviating suffering and empowering individuals in need . " <p> A shared vision for a better future <p> The MoU reflects the shared values and commitment of both organizations to uphold the principles of humanitarianism and development . By pooling resources , expertise , and networks , MEK and Islamic Relief aim to create sustainable solutions that bring lasting change to the lives of vulnerable people while contributing to global efforts to achieve the SDGs. 
@@119238110 <h> Israel confirms it killed Hamas leader Haniyeh in Tehran <h> Haniyeh , 62 , was widely considered Hamas 's overall leader and played a key role in negotiations aimed at reaching a ceasefire in the Gaza Strip <p> Haniyeh was killed in a building where he was staying in the Iranian capital in an attack widely attributed to Israel <p> SHARE <p> Israel 's defence minister has for the first time acknowledged that Israel killed Hamas 's political leader Ismail Haniyeh in Tehran in July . <p> Israel Katz made the comments in a speech vowing to target the heads of the Iran-backed Houthi movement in Yemen , which has been firing missiles and drones at Israel <p> Haniyeh was killed in a building where he was staying in the Iranian capital in an attack widely attributed to Israel . <p> Separately , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said some progress had been made towards agreeing a ceasefire in Gaza with Hamas , but he could not give a timeline for when a deal would be reached . <p> It comes after a senior Palestinian official told the BBC that talks between Hamas and Israel were 90% complete , but key issues remained . <p> In his speech , Katz said Israel would " strike hard " at the Houthis and " decapitate " its leadership . <p> " Just as we did with Haniyeh , Yahya Sinwar , and Hassan Nasrallah in Tehran , Gaza , and Lebanon , we will do so in Hodeida and Sanaa , " he said , referring to Hezbollah and Hamas leaders who have all been killed this year . <p> Haniyeh , 62 , was widely considered Hamas 's overall leader and played a key role in negotiations aimed at reaching a ceasefire in the Gaza Strip . <p> After his assassination , Hamas named Yahya Sinwar , its leader in Gaza and one of the chief architects of the 7 October attacks , as the group 's overall leader . <p> Sinwar was killed by the Israeli military in a chance encounter in Gaza in October and the group is still in the process of choosing a new leader . <p> Hassan Nasrallah meanwhile was the leader of the Iran-backed Lebanese group Hezbollah -- he was assassinated in Beirut in September as Israel dramatically escalated its military campaign against Hezbollah , with which it had been trading near daily cross-border fire since the day after the 7 October attacks <p> The Houthis , an Iran-backed rebel group that controls north-western Yemen , began attacking Israeli and international ships in the Red Sea shortly after Israel began targeting Hamas in Gaza last October . <p> The group has vowed to continue until the war in Gaza ends . <p> On Saturday , Israel 's military said its attempts to shoot down a projectile launched from Yemen were unsuccessful and the missile struck a park in Tel Aviv . A Houthi spokesman said the group hit a military target using a hypersonic ballistic missile . <p> Last week Israel launched strikes against what it said were Houthi military targets , hitting ports as well as energy infrastructure in the Yemeni capital Sanaa . The US and UK have also attacked Houthi targets as part of an operation to protect international shipping . <p> Hamas attacked Israel in October last year , killing about 1,200 people and taking 251 people hostage . <p> In response , Israel launched a military campaign to destroy Hamas in Gaza which has continued for more than a year and has killed 45,317 people according to the Hamas-run health ministry in the Strip . <p> That figure includes 58 people killed by Israeli attacks over the past 24 hours , Hamas officials said . Local medical officials said that at least 11 people were killed in three separate strikes on the al-Mawasi area , which had been designated a " safe zone " by the Israeli military . Israel said it was targeting a Hamas fighter . <p> On Monday Israel said three of its soldiers had been killed in the northern Gaza Strip . 
@@119238205 <p> From Damascus to Gaza : The fractured and volatile Muslim worldPosted on December 23rd , 2024 <h> Ayesha Naseem Mirza , UK <p> Islam is embarking on a critical era , and Muslims must remain vigilant and open their eyes to the looming threats . At the very least , we must unite to ensure that the legacy of Prophet Muhammadsa remains untarnished , come what may . " ( The Unity of Muslims , p. 44 ) <p> These were the words of the Khalifa that were written and published several decades ago but their truth and their significance is so relevant and timely that one is left to wonder whether anything really changed or was any heed given by Muslims and the Islamic world since . <p> If we glance at the Muslim world today , the answer is , certainly not . <p> Most Muslim countries are deeply mired in conflict , division , and unrest . The Middle East , in particular , remains an extremely volatile region . As I write this , any hope for peace feels like a distant dream -- something far out of reach for its struggling nations . This time , though not for the first time , the focus is on Syria . <p> If anyone were to predict that the launch of an offensive by the Syrian Rebels against the Assad regime on 27 November 2024 would result in the fall of Bashar al-Assad 's regime and the change of power in the heart of Damascus in the matter of just ten days , it was almost laughable and absurd . However , as is the case with the Middle East and its unpredictable geopolitics , today Syria has seen an unprecedented transition of power with regime change . <p> The rebels led by Islamist alliance Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , alongside its umbrella group of Turkish-backed Syrian militias called the Syrian National Army , initiated this offensive by capturing Aleppo , Syria 's largest city . They swept across Syria taking over other cities and towns and eventually claiming Damascus . As for President Bashar al-Assad , the Russian Foreign Ministry confirmed , in the first official confirmation , that he had stepped down " and left Syria " . <p> This is a huge turning point . <h> The rise and fall of Bashar al-Assad <p> Bashar al-Assad came to power in 2000 after the death of his father Hafez al-Assad , who ruled the country for 29 years . Assad inherited a strictly controlled and repressive political structure , where opposition was not tolerated . In the initial years of his rule , he promised open media access to Syria , a progressive economic approach and appeared to pursue a path of politics that differed significantly from his father 's style of rule -- it was short-lived , however . Assad 's legacy is that he will be remembered as the man who violently repressed peaceful protests against his regime in 2011 , triggering a civil war . The brutal civil war resulted in the displacement of fourteen million people , six million of which became refugees -- a catastrophe that is considered the world 's largest refugee crisis , according to the UN . ( From eye doctor to dictator -- the rise and fall of Assad 's presidency " , Sky News , 8 December 2024 , www.skynews.com ) <p> In the previous rebellion against his regime , he managed to survive with the help of Russia and Iran . Russia used its air power while Iran sent military advisors to Syria and Hezbollah , the militia it supports in neighbouring Lebanon , deployed its well-trained fighters . This did not happen this time . Assad 's allies were preoccupied with their own affairs and in the last few days , essentially abandoned him . Due to the lack of help from Russia , Iran and Hezbollah , his troops were generally unable to stop the rebels led by the militant group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) . ( End of Assad rule will reshape region 's balance of power " , BBC News , 8 December 2024 , www.bbc.co.uk ) <h> Who are the rebels in Syria ? <p> Syrian rebel militant group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) led by Abu Mohammed al-Jawlani has come forward as the figurehead of the new governmental rule in post-Assad Syria . Al-Jawlani 's HTS was set up under a different name , Jabhat al-Nusra , in 2011 . It was named and set up in direct affiliation to al-Qaeda . The leader of the self-styled Islamic State ( IS ) group , Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi , was also involved in the formation of Jabhat al-Nusra . This rebel movement was regarded as one of the most effective and deadly of the groups ranged against President Assad . <p> Although proscribed by the UN , the US , Turkey and other countries as a terrorist group , al-Jawlani publicly broke ranks with al-Qaeda and dissolved Jabhat al-Nusra to set up a new organisation with the name of Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) . Despite al-Jawlani 's campaign and claim over his organisation to be dissociated ideologically from al-Qaeda , doubts remain over whether HTS has completely renounced its links and how safe would the minorities in Syria be should there be more repression . <p> Analysts and writers agree that HTS ' sudden and destructive advance on Aleppo and Hama played a decisive role in the swift collapse of Assad 's regime . However , many also highlight that other rebel groups contributed significantly to the momentum , as various factions from across Syria appeared to unite and advance together . <p> Among these groups are rebel factions that operated under the banner of the Free Syrian Army from southern towns and cities that had been inactive for years . To the east of Syria were the Kurdish-led forces who have benefited from the collapse of the Syrian army to take full control of the main city , Deir El-Zour . <p> In the huge Syrian desert , the remaining traces of the so-called Islamic State can also take advantage of the situation . Further in the north of Syria , along the Turkish border , the Syrian National Army -- backed by Ankara -- may also prove to be a significant player in what happens next . ( Sebastian Usher , Who are the Syrian Rebels in Syria " , BBC News , 30 November 2024 , www.bbc.co.uk ) <h> What happens next ? <p> During this rebel offensive in the past weeks , hundreds of prisoners have been released prompting celebration and joy among the Syrian people . But even if united by the desire for change against Assad 's regime , Syria , as a whole , is an extremely divided nation . With different rebel factions that often work as rivals and often as allies , and with foreign powers picking sides according to their interests and alliances means that much remains uncertain and undecided for Syria . <p> Again , HTS and its previous affiliation with al-Qaeda also means that there are concerns regarding the kind of rule Syria would now face and whether other minorities would get their due rights under the new leadership of al-Jawlani . <p> With the ceasefire between Lebanon 's Hezbollah and Israel already crippling , and with the continuing of brutal Israeli aggression in Gaza , Syria is another key front in the conflict . <p> Just hours after the collapse of Damascus to the rebels , Israel seized " territory in Syria-controlled areas of the Golan Heights , as its military warned Syrians living in five villages close to the Israeli-occupied portion of the strategic area to stay home " . <p> The Israeli Prime Minister , Benjamin Netanyahu ordered Israeli forces to seize the buffer zone in the Golan Heights established by a 1974 ceasefire agreement with Syria . Netanyahu said that the ceasefire agreement was no longer in function as the Syrian soldiers had left their positions , requiring the Israeli takeover . Israel captured a portion of the Golan Heights in the 1967 war and annexed it . The international community , except for the United States , views it as illegally occupied Syrian territory . <p> Moreover , the Israeli Air Force bombed weapons depots in Southern Syria and Damascus to prevent opposition groups from seizing them . They attacked ammunition depots in southern Syria and in the Damascus airport area . As seen in the past year and beyond , Israel was allowed to intervene and extend its aggression now to the borders of Syria , without any repercussions or consequences from Western leaders . <p> The unprecedented impunity continues to destabilise the region and the wider world . <h> The disunited Muslim world <p> When Israel launched its catastrophic and bloody aggression against Gaza , the lack of Muslim unity was glaring . Not once did all Muslim states unanimously and categorically condemn the attack . Instead , there were scattered voices , isolated statements , and fragmented conferences , but no collective display of solidarity . <p> On the front lines of resistance , it was Lebanon 's Hezbollah , Gaza 's Hamas , and Yemen 's Houthis -- supported militarily and economically by Iran -- that attempted to confront Israeli aggression . These resistance groups targeted military facilities and assets to undermine Israel 's military power in their struggle to end the war . However , no decisive victory was achieved . Backed by the US and its allies , Israel successfully disrupted the leadership structures of Hamas and Hezbollah through targeted assassinations of key figures , including Ismail Haniyeh , Yahya Sinwar , and Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah . <p> Now , as the war turns to Syria once again , not only are the wealthier Muslim nations silent bystanders , some of them , like Turkey , are backing militant forces to cause further division and discord inside Syria . <h> The Unity of Muslims -- An address of Hazrat Khalifatul Masih IIra <p> In 1952 , Hazrat Mirza Bashir-ud-Din Mahmud Ahmad , Khalifatul Masih IIra delivered an address on the subject of the unity of Muslims . In his address , Hazrat Khalifatul Masih IIra stated : <p> When a sovereign and powerful country comes under attack , its people have confidence and faith in their ability to mount a solid and resolute response to the attacker ; they possess both material and moral strength to not only repel the enemy from their borders but also penetrate their territory and strike back with equal force . But as evident , no Islamic country at this time can defend itself without foreign assistance , much less retaliate in enemy lands . Every Muslim state is forced to seek help from America , Great Britain , or some other European power . " ( The Unity of Muslims English , p. 3 ) <p> Hazrat Khalifatul Masih IIra further said : <p> In this age , world powers include Russia , America , and the United Kingdom , with France , Italy , and Germany following close behind . Among new countries , Australia and Canada are also rising in power . Even Japan is emerging as a significant player . The question is whether any Muslim state or alliance can compete with these world powers in wealth , military strength , trade , and commerce . Can any Islamic country claim to have a comparable number of tanks , bombs , war supplies , production facilities , and businesses as these nations ? " ( Ibid , pp. 4-5 ) <p> Although the address is from the post-World War II era , much of the subject and the insights are still as relevant as back then . Even though some powerful Muslim nations have now established military and weapons for its defence , they are still largely dependent and also reliant on the West for aid and concessions . <p> Regarding the meaning of the Arabic term , ittihad , Hazrat Khalifatul Masih IIra explained that the word derived from wahdat " which means to adopt solidarity . It implies that various entities have decided to merge into a whole , losing their individuality . A salient feature of Arabic is that the entire philosophy behind a concept is encapsulated in one word . As a cognate in Urdu , ittihad has lost its meaning . When uttered in Arabic , a listener who knows its context instantly perceives the speaker 's position : Muslims are divided into various independent sects , but with planning and resolve , they can rally for particular objectives . Therefore , a call for unity among Muslims means that the Islamic world will adopt coherence and harmony despite its divides that stretch across nations and individuals . " ( Ibid , p. 5 ) <p> Providing two main principles that could help establish Muslim unity , Hazrat Khalifatul Masih IIra stated : <p> Thus , the first principle for establishing Muslim unity is acknowledging our differences . An individual who aims to eliminate these differences to foster unity is unlikely to succeed . Only those who can look past secondary differences can prevail . " ( Ibid , p. 36 ) <p> The second principle of unity entails prioritising major concerns over minor ones . If unity can not be attained in every aspect , focus on significant matters and overlook trivial issues . " ( Ibid , p. 41 ) <p> Urging the Muslim nations to adhere to the invaluable pursuit of unity , Hazrat Musleh-e-Maudra emphasised : <p> Currently , Pakistan , Lebanon , Iraq , Jordan , Syria , Egypt , Libya , Iran , Afghanistan , Indonesia , and Saudi Arabia are eleven independent Muslim countries , each with their own mutual differences . If these states are interested in unifying , it is incumbent upon them to consider common points around which to unite , whilst overlooking their differences . If such a point is found , they should ally and work to achieve its aims . For instance , they can collaborate on the goal of not permitting any Muslim country to remain subjugated . Rather than waiting for their internal disputes to be resolved , they should join forces in preventing any Islamic land from being enslaved and make concerted efforts for its liberation . Just as Prophet Muhammadsa invited Jews and Christians to unite based on a shared belief in Tauheed , all Muslims ought to unify in liberating enslaved subjects , with differences being resolved later . " ( Ibid , p. 42 ) <p> He continues : <p> I have observed that Muslims focus entirely on their differences and disregard what binds them . Every sect declares the others it disagrees with as wajib-ul-qatal punishable by death , even though it contradicts the practice of the Holy Prophetsa . Are they greater believers than Prophet Muhammadsa who invited the Jews and the Christians to stand in solidarity with Muslims on the shared belief in the Unity of God ? Yet , the believers fail to extend the same invitation to their fellow adherents ... refuse to move an inch without carving out each other 's flesh . The same call for solidarity will unite the world of Islam . If Muslim countries wish to achieve unity , they must rally around the principle of joining forces , regardless of their contentious issues , and stand together to fight the enemy . Let us agree that , despite our mutual differences , we will not engage in conflict with each other . " ( Ibid , p. 43 ) <h> Hakam and Adl : The one to unify the Ummah <p> Given how volatile the state of the region and the wider world is , just recognising the significance of Muslim unity is one of the many paths that must be pursued immediately . <p> Unity that is free from all vested interests of individual nations and one that acknowledges the necessity of dialogue for the sake of peace and stability and unity that overlooks the differences that sets us apart . <p> The Ahmadiyya Muslim Community was established for this purpose as well . Hazrat Mirza Masroor Ahmad , Khalifatul Masih Vaa delivered a Friday Sermon on the subject of the Hakam and Adl and explained : <p> The Ahmadiyya Jamaat has not been established on the basis of differences that exist between various sects and groups , or owing to their differences of opinion , or their difference in their interpretations and commentaries . Rather , this Community has been established in the latter days by the true servant of the Holy Prophetsa , in accordance with the prophecy made by the Holy Prophetsa and the promise of Allah the Almighty . Having pledged allegiance to the Promised Messiahas , it is this Community which will bring an end to the disputes between the Shias and Sunnis or between any other group or sect for that matter ; and thus , enable them to become united under one Ummah . We are to establish a single Ummah by informing Muslims of the true teachings of Islam . The Promised Messiahas was commissioned for this purpose and established this Community in accordance with the commandment of Allah the Almighty . In order to fulfil this task , Allah the Almighty revealed to the Promised Messiahas that he should , ' gather together all Muslims who are on the earth upon one religion ' . " ( Hakam and Adl : The One to Unify the Ummah , pp. 2-3 ) <h> Conclusion <p> Essentially , the global political theatre , where Syria 's fate is being discussed , is already in shambles itself . A lot will be suggested and proposed ( and imposed ) . The Muslim World -- although more of a clich ? now -- might also want to consider backing Syria . What Muslim leaders might think is again expected to be under the heavy influence of the Western political agendas . Will unity be on the cards of the Muslim world ? Is such a concept still achievable ? If so , how is it to come about ? <h> Leave a Reply <p> Disclaimer : The comments contained within this website are personal reflection only and do not necessarily reflect the views of the LankaWeb . LankaWeb.com offers the contents of this website without charge , but does not necessarily endorse the views and opinions expressed within . Neither the LankaWeb nor the individual authors of any material on this Web site accept responsibility for any loss or damage , however caused ( including through negligence ) , which you may directly or indirectly suffer arising out of your use of or reliance on information contained on or accessed through this Web site . All views and opinions presented in this article are solely those of the surfer and do not necessarily represent those of LankaWeb.com . <p> This entry was posted on Monday , December 23rd , 2024 . You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 feed . You can skip to the end and leave a response . 
@@119249070 <p> Palestinians gather to receive food cooked by a charity kitchen , amid a hunger crisis , as the Israel-Gaza conflict continues , in Khan Younis in the southern Gaza Strip , December 4 , 2024 . REUTERS/Mohammed Salem/File Photo <p> Israel has failed to crack down on armed gangs attacking food convoys in Gaza , despite a pledge to do so in mid-October to help ward off famine in the Palestinian enclave , according to three U.N . and U.S. officials familiar with the matter . <p> The commitment , made behind closed doors , seemed like a breakthrough because , since the beginning of the war in October 2023 , the international community has struggled to enlist Israel 's support to improve the dire humanitarian situation in the war-ravaged territory , the three senior officials said . <p> But the Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) has remained focused on its fight against Hamas and taken only limited actions against the handful of gangs operating in parts of Gaza under Israeli control , according to the three officials , who requested anonymity because of the sensitivity of the information . <p> The office of Israel 's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu referred questions on the pledge and relief operations in Gaza to the military . An IDF spokesperson declined to comment on what was agreed in October and what has been done to curb looting . <p> " Israel has taken significant steps to allow the maximum possible scope of aid to Gaza , " the spokesperson said . <p> Now , U.N . and U.S. officials say gang violence has spiraled out of control , crippling supply lines on which most of Gaza 's 2.1 million civilians rely for survival . <p> In October , $9.5 million worth of food and other goods -- nearly a quarter of all the humanitarian aid sent to Gaza that month -- was lost because of attacks and looting , according to a previously unreported tally of incidents compiled by U.N . relief agencies with charity organizations . <p> The assessment of looting in November is still underway , but preliminary data shows that it was far worse , two people familiar with the matter said . <p> In mid-November , a 109-truck convoy chartered by U.N . agencies came under attack minutes after it was ordered by the IDF to leave a border crossing in southern Gaza during the night , several hours ahead of the agreed schedule , according to five people familiar with the incident , including two who were present . <p> Stationed nearby , the IDF did not intervene , the five people said . The IDF spokesperson declined to comment on the incident . <p> Georgios Petropoulos , a coordinator at the U.N . ' s emergency-response arm , OCHA , said that aid agencies were unable to resolve the problem of lawlessness there by themselves . <p> " It 's just gotten too big for humanitarians to solve , " he told reporters upon returning from Gaza on Thursday . <p> The U.S. Department of State declined to comment on Israel 's October commitment , but said that looting remained the primary obstacle to aid delivery . <p> " We continue to press Israel on the need for bolstered security to ensure convoys with critical humanitarian assistance reach Palestinian civilians throughout Gaza , " a spokesperson said . <p> HUMANITARIAN NADIR <p> Fourteen months into Israel 's war against Hamas , the international relief machine is in disarray : U.N . agencies and charities say the humanitarian crisis in Gaza has reached one of its worst points because they can not deliver and distribute enough food and medical supplies to Gaza 's population . <p> A new round of ceasefire talks this month has rekindled hope that Hamas would release Israeli hostages it has held captive since its Oct. 7 attack on Israel last year , and that solutions can be found to boost humanitarian aid . <p> For now , however , relief operations are hobbled by a disagreement between Israel and much of the international community over who is responsible for feeding civilians in Gaza and maintaining order in the tiny territory . <p> The U.N . and the United States have repeatedly called on Israel to comply with international humanitarian laws , and provide security and assistance to Gaza civilians . But Israeli authorities say their only duty is to facilitate the transfer of food and medical supplies , and that they regularly do much more out of goodwill . <p> The stalemate has made organizing and coordinating relief operations immensely difficult , said Jamie McGoldrick , who was the U.N . Humanitarian chief for the Occupied Palestinian Territory from December to April . <p> To gauge the depth of the hunger crisis , U.S. officials said they watch the percentage of Gaza 's population to whom U.N . relief agencies could provide food assistance each month . <p> In November , it was 29% , up from 24% in October , but a sharp fall from a wartime peak of more than 70% in April , according to U.N . data . <p> Mohammad Abdel-Dayem , owner of the Zadna 2 bakery in central Gaza , said he and his 60 employees have been out of business for a month , unable to provide bread to the 50,000 people they normally serve . <p> " We 're not receiving any flour because of looting , " he told Reuters by phone last week . <p> The IDF spokesperson challenged the claim that some bakeries are not receiving flour . <p> But a daily World Food Programme review of bakery operations seen by Reuters showed that 15 of the 19 bread factories the U.N . agency supports in Gaza were out of operation as of Dec. 21 , and that Zadna 2 has been closed since Nov. 23 due to a lack of flour . <p> Some of the stolen food makes its way to the market , Abdel-Dayem said , but at prohibitive prices that only very few people can afford . <p> Relief workers said they also face difficulties in accessing northern Gaza , where the IDF resumed combat against Hamas in October . An estimated 30,000 to 50,000 civilians remain stranded there , with little food and medical assistance . <p> The IDF spokesperson said a dedicated humanitarian response has been formulated for the area . <p> Aside from fighting in the north , more than a dozen U.N . and U.S. officials traced the deterioration of humanitarian conditions inside Gaza in the past three months to a decision by Israeli authorities in early October to ban commercial food shipments by businesses . <p> Those shipments accounted for nearly all the fresh food and more than half of all goods going into Gaza between May and September , according to Israeli military data . <p> Their abrupt suspension caused a sharp drop in supply and made attacking aid trucks an increasingly lucrative proposition , the U.N . and U.S. officials said . <p> In October , 40% of aid collected from the Kerem Shalom crossing in southern Gaza was looted , according to the tally of incidents seen by Reuters . <p> Israeli authorities have opened a new crossing , Kissufim , but gangs have also attacked convoys along that route , the U.N . said . <p> The gangs are formed along tribal and family lines , and include some criminal elements freed from prisons in Gaza during the Israeli offensive , according to relief and transport workers in Gaza . <p> The U.N . and the United States have pressed Israel to restore commercial shipments , saying that flooding Gaza with food would drive down prices and discourage looters , but Israeli authorities have not agreed to do so . <p> DEPLETED TRUCKS <p> Early in the war , the U.N . sought to rely on unarmed Gaza policemen to secure convoys , but Israel was opening fire on them , saying it could not tolerate any force tied to Hamas . <p> Visiting the Kerem Shalom crossing in late November , an Israeli officer said it was the responsibility of the U.N . to distribute aid to Gazans once Israel allowed food across the border . <p> Waiving at piles of food , Col. Abdullah Halabi -- clad in a bullet-proof vest and ballistic helmet -- told reporters it was aid " waiting to be picked up by international organizations . " <p> He and other relief workers said they were stunned by the attack on the 109-truck convoy on Nov. 16 about four miles from the crossing . <p> Gunmen from several gangs surrounded the convoy and forced drivers to follow them to nearby compounds where they stole flour and food kits from 98 trucks , according to the five people familiar with the matter . <p> Drivers and their depleted trucks were released in the morning , they said . 
@@119271476 <h> Pope urges negotiations to end Ukraine-Russia war <p> In his traditional Christmas Day address , the Pope said " boldness was needed to open the door " to dialogue " in order to achieve a just and lasting peace " between the two sides . <p> His appeal followed a major Russian attack the same day on Ukraine 's energy facilities , which Ukraine said involved at least 184 missiles and drones . <p> The Pope appealed for the sound of arms to be silenced across the world <p> Pope Francis has called for negotiations between Ukraine and Russia to end the war triggered by Russia 's invasion of Ukraine in 2022 . <p> In his traditional Christmas Day address , the Pope said " boldness was needed to open the door " to dialogue " in order to achieve a just and lasting peace " between the two sides . <p> His appeal followeda major Russian attack the same day on Ukraine 's energy facilities , which Ukraine said involved at least 184 missiles and drones . <p> Earlier this year , Ukraine strongly rejected a call by the pontiff for Kyiv to negotiate an end to the war and have " the courage to raise the white flag " . <p> His Urbi et Orbi ( to the city and the world ) message also touched on other conflicts . <p> Speaking to thousands of people gathered in St Peter 's Square , the 88-year-old Pope declared : " May the sound of arms be silenced in war-torn Ukraine , " and beyond . <p> " I invite every individual , and all people of all nations ... to become pilgrims of hope , to silence the sounds of arms and overcome divisions , " he said . <p> Reiterating the Christmas Day message he delivered last year , Pope Francis also called for a ceasefire in Gaza and the freeing of hostages held by Hamas . <p> " I think of the Christian communities in Israel and Palestine , particularly in Gaza , where the humanitarian situation is extremely grave , " he said . <p> He asked that " the doors of dialogue and peace be flung open " . <p> The war in Gaza began after the territory 's Hamas rulers attacked Israel on 7 October 2023 . Gunmen killed about 1,200 people and took another 251 back to Gaza as hostages . More than 45,000 Palestinians have been killed in Israel 's offensive , Gaza 's Hamas-run health ministry says . <p> Earlier this week , the Pope twice described Israel 's attacks as " cruelty " , earning a sharp rebuke from Israel which called the remarks " particularly disappointing " . <p> Pope Francis also said his thoughts were with the Christian communities in Lebanon and Syria , where rebels recently overthrew Syrian President Bashar al-Assad after 24 years in power . Syria 's Christian population has dwindled since the start of the war in 2011 , and reports suggest it now stands at a fraction of its pre-war total of approximately 1.5 million . <p> Syria 's minorities have expressed fear about their future in the country since Islamist rebels took over - though the leading rebel group , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , has said all faiths will be protected . 
@@119271633 <h> By Nalliah Thayabharan <p> The Balkans are steeped in history and very much in the middle of today 's geopolitical great game and are aware of the destabilizing Balkan wars of the late 20th century , and are surely aware of the spark that started World War I , when Archduke Franz Ferdinand was assassinated in Sarajevo , Serbia , leading the great powers to start World War I. The bombing of Serbian forces by NATO in the 1990s is still fresh in the memory of most of the Balkans and Russians . <p> Today , the most obvious and underreported influence in the Western Balkans is Turkey , where President Recep Tayyip Erdogan is promoting a greater role for Islam socially and politically in Albania , Kosovo , Macedonia and Bosnia . Today it is hard to miss the veils worn on the streets and the new mosques being built in Albania , Kosovo , Macedonia and Bosnia . <p> Serbia is one of Russia 's main supporters in Europe . Hungarian-born American George Soros ( born Gy ? rgy Schwartz ; August 12 , 1930 ) wants Serbia to change the course of their policies supporting Russia . Soros has decided to remove all obstacles and overthrow the current government of Serbia and in this way bring to power new political forces that are anti-Russian . Soros financed all the revolutions in South-Eastern Europe and directly financed the independence of Kosovo and was active with his foundations during the wars in the Balkans . This work , which got his branch in Belarus , was expelled in 1997 . Soros ' definition of democracy means people electing only candidates of whom he approves . <p> George Soros played a key role in the dramatic overthrow last year of President Slobodan Milosevic . His Soros Foundations Network helped finance several groups , including the student organization Otpor , which spearheaded resistance to the patriotic Yugoslav leader Slobodan Milosevic . Soros ' branch in Belgrade , the Yugoslav and Serbian capital , was among the earliest backers of Otpor , which grew under young and decentralized leadership to strengthen the fractured opposition to Milosevic . The vast majority of groups funded by Soros are not nearly as powerful as Otpor , nor do they play for such huge stakes . <p> Soros has given particular focus in creating political unrest to Eastern European countries , including his native Hungary and is long accused by Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Mih ? ly Orb ? n of meddling in Hungary 's affairs . The U.S. State Department often teamed up with Soros to promote democracy " in Eastern European countries.This often consisted of targeting nationalist governments by infusing socially liberal propaganda through NGOs and Western-sponsored media -- often going so far as to influence those countries ' elections . <p> Soros has no chance of winning a popularity contest among the Eastern Europeans . Sorism exploits the disdain for the billionaire . Politicians criticizing Soros ' influence were portrayed as senseless conspiracy theorists who imagine that rich overlords rule the world . The minute you do so , you 're immediately labeled some sort of conspiracy theorist . <p> From time to time , Soros is the subject of Romanian and Serbian politics . Soros sees Romania and Serbia as his own business where he can pursue his business interests . This man , who has been creating various organizations in Romania and Serbia since the 90s has only financed the worst ; the missions he funded never benefited Romania and Serbia . <p> George Soros was once best known as the speculator who broke the Bank of England " by reputedly making $1 billion in a single week in September 1992 betting against the British pound . In the mid-1990s , in addition to the tax and currency violations that drove the George Soros network out of Belarus , branches in Yugoslavia , Albania , Kyrgyzstan and Croatia , were accused of shielding spies and breaking currency laws . <p> George Soros is behind the migration crisis in Europe and the European Union is governed by unelected officials , and represents the interests of multinational companies . <p> George Soros with one of the major generators of what is called open society which means in many countries creating revolutions and making huge impact on the society especially in Eastern Europe who was encouraging refugees to come to Europe . <p> The goal of George Soros organizations and foreign mercenaries is anti-Russian and anti-Orthodox action and promotion of LGBT propaganda . They want to intensify the march of the political-globalist West towards the East , and direct their forces to where the front is most relevant and where it is expected to intensify . Soros ' mercenaries are destroying the Serbian Orthodox tradition and promoting Western values in the Serbian public space . <p> In the last 35 years , since the collapse of the Soviet Union , there has been a massive lack of democracy in the Western world . When the Soviet Union existed all the democracies around Western world were obliged to confirm in their Parliament 's that there is a democracy and they are not just conveying what the people from the shadow or today what is called the corporate world is telling to the politicians what to do . <p> Western democracies are not any more real democracies , they are much more corporative driven politically correct societies . <p> The Power centers in the Western countries have been sabotaging Serbia for a long time because the West does not want a strong Serbia strengthening its economy , protecting and defending its territory . The Power centers in the Western countries want Serbia on its knees , weak and obedient , Serbia which delivers on their requests and ultimatums . <p> Foreign intelligence agencies had developed a plan aimed at the collapse of Serbia , politically and economically and looking for young Serbians who would do things like organizing protests on their behalf . Western megaphones received millions , and the media and the NGOs have been denunciating Serbia for money received from Western governments , embassies , organizations backed by Rothschild , Rockefeller , Soros , European Commission and various funds for the development of democracy . <p> The Serbian politician and diplomat Vladimir Krsljaninhas been one of the most prominent advocates of close cooperation between Serbia and Russia for decades . He was a high-ranking official in the Serbian Socialist Party of Slobodan Milosevic . Today opposition parties in Serbia are attempting to exploit the tragedies for the promotion of their own interests . <p> West is acting in Ukraine as it did in Kosovo . The Western NATO masters are on the offensive and are ordering Serbia to go down on its knees and capitulate . German politicians were talking about a glorious EU future while dismembering the Serbian state . <p> The New World -- Serbia , Russia , and China -- the future has begun . <p> Most years Bethlehem basks in the central place it holds in the Christian story of Jesus ' life , born there in a stable because there was no room for his parents at the inn , and placed in an animal 's manger , the humblest of all possible beds . The normally bustling biblical birthplace of Jesus " Bethlehem " now looks like a ghost town . With Israel 's war in Gaza having killed more than 43,000 people , the mostly Palestinian population of Bethlehem in the Occupied West Bank are in mourning too . <p> As Bethlehem prepares to mark its second Christmas under the shadow of the war in Gaza , for the second straight year , Bethlehem 's Christmas celebrations will be somber and muted , in deference to ongoing war in Gaza . Israel 's war in Gaza has been raging for nearly 15 months , and there still is no end in sight . <p> Like Christ , Russia is conducting a war to save the world and the only two possibilities are Russia 's victory or the annihilation of humanity . <p> Very Very Merry Christmas ! ! ! <h> Leave a Reply <p> Disclaimer : The comments contained within this website are personal reflection only and do not necessarily reflect the views of the LankaWeb . LankaWeb.com offers the contents of this website without charge , but does not necessarily endorse the views and opinions expressed within . Neither the LankaWeb nor the individual authors of any material on this Web site accept responsibility for any loss or damage , however caused ( including through negligence ) , which you may directly or indirectly suffer arising out of your use of or reliance on information contained on or accessed through this Web site . All views and opinions presented in this article are solely those of the surfer and do not necessarily represent those of LankaWeb.com . <p> This entry was posted on Tuesday , December 24th , 2024 . You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 feed . You can skip to the end and leave a response . 
@@119279702 <h> Pope calls for ' arms to be silenced ' across world <p> Pope Francis gets on the popemobile at the end of the weekly general audience at St Peter 's Square in The Vatican on November 27 , 2024 . ( Photo by Tiziana FABI / AFP ) <p> Pope Francis called Wednesday for " arms to be silenced " around the world in his Christmas address , appealing for peace in the Middle East , Ukraine and Sudan as he denounced the " extremely grave " humanitarian situation in Gaza . <p> He used his traditional " Urbi et Orbi " ( " to the city and the world " ) message to the world 's 1.4 billion Catholics to call for talks for a just peace in Ukraine as the country was pummelled by 170 Russian missiles and drones on Christmas morning . <p> " May the sound of arms be silenced in war-torn Ukraine , " the 88-year-old pontiff said , his voice strained and breathless . " May there be the boldness needed to open the door to negotiation and to gestures of dialogue and encounter , in order to achieve a just and lasting peace . " <p> In front of thousands of the faithful gathered in front of St. Peter 's Basilica in Rome , also appealed for a ceasefire in Gaza and for the freeing of Israeli hostages held there by Hamas . <p> " I think of the Christian communities in Israel and Palestine , particularly in Gaza , where the humanitarian situation is extremely grave . May there be a ceasefire , may the hostages be released and aid be given to the people worn out by hunger and by war , " he added . <p> Francis extended his call for a silencing of arms to the whole Middle East and to Sudan , which has been ravaged by a ravaged by 20 months of brutal civil war where millions are under the threat of famine . <p> " May the Son of the Most High sustain the efforts of the international community to facilitate access to humanitarian aid for the civilian population of Sudan and to initiate new negotiations for a ceasefire , " he said . 
@@119286625 <p> The Standard Group Plc is a multi-media organization with investments in media platforms spanning newspaper print operations , television , radio broadcasting , digital and online services . The Standard Group is recognized as a leading multi-media house in Kenya with a key influence in matters of national and international interest . <h> Letter from Mideast : Walled city of Bethlehem falls quiet as Christmas nears <h> Loading Article ... <p> For the best experience , please enable JavaScript in your browser settings . <p> People are seen at the Church of the Nativity in the West Bank city of Bethlehem , on Dec. 22 , 2024 . Xinhua <p> Before visiting Bethlehem , the city best known as the birthplace of Jesus Christ , I scoured countless online travel guides for tips and advice . <p> " Expect long lines , " many reviews cautioned . Yet what I encountered was jarringly different : a place wrapped in an unsettling silence . Standing alone in Manger Square , in the shadow of the Church of the Nativity , I struggled to reconcile the bustling scenes described in guidebooks with the emptiness before me . The square , which should have been teeming with pilgrims as Christmas approaches , felt like a stage after the final curtain . " In the past , this place was alive with tourists , " said Hamza , a Palestinian guide I met outside the church . A seasoned veteran of Bethlehem 's tourism industry , he nostalgically recalled the crowds that once filled the square , gesturing toward the vacant space where queues once stretched for hundreds of meters . " The war changed everything here , " he lamented . <p> The Israeli-Palestinian conflict that erupted in October 2023 has transformed this historic city , though not through direct violence . While Bethlehem has been spared the bombs , the shadow of conflict has driven visitors away , leaving behind a profound silence that speaks volumes about the region 's turmoil . " The tourists are afraid , and I can understand that , " said Hamza , pointing to bullet holes still visible in the walls of the church , left by Israeli soldiers during a 39-day siege in 2002 . " In Palestine , nowhere is spared from bullets . Not even the church where Jesus was born . " <p> The church 's entrance , intentionally built low and narrow centuries ago to prevent intruders from marching into the church on their horses , seemed like a metaphor for the city 's isolation . Where tourists once waited patiently to bend their heads and pass-through this humble opening , I walked through alone , my footsteps echoing in the emptiness . Inside the church , the grotto marking Jesus 's birthplace , typically surrounded by crowds of worshippers , stood quiet and unattended . <p> Under the wooden roof of the basilica , unlit candles lined the table , waiting for prayers that would n't come . Hamza told me that , for a second year in a row , there would be no lavish Christmas celebrations due to the lack of tourists and the intense atmosphere caused by the ongoing bloodshed in Gaza , just 70 kilometers away . " I used to love Christmas here , " Hamza said . " The church would be packed , the square full of joy . But this year , I doubt we 'll see any of that . All we can do is pray -- for the conflict to end and for Bethlehem to return to normal . " <p> Tourism , once the city 's economic lifeblood , has evaporated completely . Walking through Bethlehem 's ancient streets , I witnessed firsthand the economic devastation . Hotels stood vacant , and many restaurants were closed . Shopkeepers sat waiting in doorways , hopeful yet resigned to the absence of visitors . I stopped to speak with an elderly juice vendor . His cart was pristine but lacked customers . " Tourists are gone , and so is our income , " he told me , his words carrying a weary acceptance that seemed to echo throughout the city . As the afternoon light waned , I approached the stretch of the West Bank barrier dividing Bethlehem from Jerusalem . Its towering concrete wall casts a sharp shadow over the city 's structures . <p> In the time of Christ , the journey from Bethlehem to Jerusalem took mere hours on foot . Today , Palestinians face a complex maze of security checkpoints , making the 10-kilometer journey an unpredictable ordeal . Israel states that the wall is necessary for the protection of its citizens from terrorists . Palestinians , however , argue that the wall was constructed within Palestinian territory , serving as a means for Israel to seize more land . I stood at the foot of the wall , feeling insignificant under its weight . Steel wires jutted out like thorns at the top , while watchtowers monitored everything sternly . But the Palestinians had answered its gray dominion with color and wit , turning this monolith into an unlikely gallery . The wall now bears vibrant murals and street art , featuring works by both Palestinian and international artists . <p> Near the wall , I met Elias , a student at Bethlehem University . His favorite mural depicts a dove wearing a bulletproof vest and clutching an olive branch . " It feels like us -- trapped , unable to soar , " he explained . While visitors like myself could easily come and go , for Elias and his neighbors , even the simplest journey meant navigating a maze of checkpoints , their time consumed by questions , paperwork , and waiting . " It 's not that I do n't love my country , " Elias confided , " but we also need to fly away to see the bigger world . " I wished him luck , knowing how inadequate those words felt under such constraints . <p> As I prepared to leave Bethlehem , my phone buzzed with a news alert : four Palestinians had been killed in an Israeli raid in a refugee camp in Tulkarm , another West Bank city roughly 60 kilometers away . These raids had grown more frequent and violent since October 2023 , in the wake of the Hamas attacks on Israel . According to the Palestinian Health Ministry , more than 800 Palestinians have been killed during raids in the West Bank since last October . Crossing back through the checkpoint , I glanced one last time at the wall that divides two worlds once intimately connected . Its immense concrete slabs stood unmoved , seemingly destined to outlast generations of both pilgrims and protesters . Yet , I find some solace in the knowledge that beyond the wall lies a city that has endured for over three millennia , where people of differing beliefs coexist in harmony . Perhaps one day , the spirit of connection will once again transcend even the most enduring of divides in this ancient city . 
@@119300835 <p> Air strikes are reported to have hit the Yemeni capital , Sanaa , and the port city of Hudaydah on the Red Sea . <p> AFP news agency reports that Houthi TV called the strikes " Israeli aggression " . Israel has not commented . <p> The scale of the strikes or any casualties are not clear from initial reports . In recent days Israel has warned it was preparing a significant attack on Houthi rebel targets in Yemen after the group fired missiles at it . <p> Houthis have been attacking Israel with drones and missiles since the first months of the Gaza war , which began in October 2023 . The war was triggered by an unprecedented attack on Israel by Hamas gunman from Gaza , which was praised by the Houthis . <p> Israel has carried out intermittent strikes against Houthis in retaliation since then . <p> Earlier this week , Israel 's defence minister said it was preparing to " strike hard " at the Houthis , warning it would " decapitate " the group 's leadership . 
@@119335192 <h> By Nalliah Thayabharan <p> The Israeli regime has failed in Gaza . It 's been almost 15 months and they fail to take Gaza . Slaughtering thousands of children and women is not a victory . We see Israeli operations taking place daily in Gaza and a number of Israelis have been killed over the past few days . So Gaza is still not a victory for the Israeli regime . In fact that 's a major defeat because the world has been exposed to the brutality of the Israeli regime . <p> The world has been exposed to the brutality of the Israeli regime in Lebanon as well . We saw how they murdered senior commanders of Hezbollah and that is a success but Israeli forces have also been fighting Hezbollah for almost 15 months now . During the last two months of heavy fighting uh the Israeli regime failed to make any meaningful inroads into Lebanon -- that 's a failure again . The Israeli regime succeeded in slaughtering thousands of innocent Lebanese children and women . <p> The only place the Israeli regime has scored a victory is Syria . Along with the Americans , Recep Tayyip Erdogan , family rich dictatorships , oil rich dictatorships and gas-rich dictatorships , Israeli regime have succeeded in destroying Syria , because Syrians were brought to their knees since the Syrian economy is crushed due American sanctions , and the terrorism that was being imposed upon the Syrian people through Turkey and Jordan and also through the no man 's land in Iraq between Iraq and Syria . The Americans occupied the oil rich areas of Syria along with the agriculturally important areas of Syria so Americans kept the Syrian people starving and stole Syrian assets . It does n't take a genius to understand why Syria collapsed , but this is a tactical defeat for Russia and Iran . <p> But it will not necessarily a long-term success story since Syria is a very complicated country with significant minorities including Kurds ( Sunni , Yazidi ) , Turkmen Alawis , Sunni and Alevi Turkmens , Sunni Chechens , Sunni Circassians , Syrian Bosniaks , Sunni Muslim Greeks , Muslim Ossetians , Black people of Yarmouk Basin , Assyrians , Armenians , Greeks , Italians , Romani people of various creeds , Mizrahi Jews , Mandeans , and Arameans . <p> Huge segments of Sunnis in Syria do not support the extremists of al-Qaeda . Syrian jihadist leader Ahmed al-Sharaa , better known by his nom de guerre Abu Mohammed al-Jolani was the deputy for ISIS . He was al-Qaeda leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi 's deputy for Syria . The present split between Jolani 's Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) and al-Qaeda is not an ideological split . It is based on mutual consensus since both sides believe that the split should take place for PR purposes . Jolani always praised al-Qaeda and al-Qaeda also praised Jolani . There 's no difference between ISIS , al-Qaeda and Jolani 's Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) and that is why Iran opposed these extremists in Syria and went to defend the legitimate government in Damascus . <p> The Syrian government had major shortcomings and it was no more despotic than other Arab dictatorships in the region but it had one positive aspect to it and that was it asserted independence and it stood up to the Israeli regime in addition to its adversaries who were extremist terrorists . That is why Iran went to Syria to help the Syrians to defend the country against the extremist terrorists . <p> The current situation in Syria is a short-term tactical victory for the Israeli regime , Americans , Recep Tayyip Erdogan , family rich dictatorships , oil rich dictatorships and gas-rich dictatorships . But this is not an easy ride for Recep Tayyip Erdogan . Erdogan did not anticipate owning Syria . He only wanted a bigger peace outside of Idlib to use at the negotiating table . The sudden collapse of Syria was not expected by anyone . Now Erdogan has to take care of Syria and the political and economical burden is simply too much for Erdogan . <p> The situation in Syria is going to complicate the situation across the region including Egypt , Saudi Arabia , Jordan , Turkey and Qatar which are most vulnerable to the spread of al-Qaeda ideology . <p> Iranian oil is no longer going to Syria . Russian oil and Iraqi oil are no longer going to Syria . The countries in the US camp , Turkey and Qatar will obviously be funding Jolani 's Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) and al-Qaeda in Syria but how much and how long are they going to help Syria is a big question . <p> Here comes the question of the importance of the role of Israel in this whole situation . The Israeli regime was incapable of defeating Hamas and Hezbollah . Even with those interactions direct fight between Iran and Israel without the United States , United Kingdom , France and Jordan all of these countries together helping Israel , Israeli regime was not capable to defend themselves and right now Israeli regime is trying to brag about what has happened in Syria and without Turkey and the West being part of this operation . Attack on the Syrian Government was a collective operation of NATO led by the United States which has been pursuing this for since 2011 . The Israelis have always been supporting al-Qaeda and ISIS alongside the border with Syria or at least along the occupied Golan Heights . Al-Qaeda and ISIS were funded by the Israeli regime , wounded Al-Qaeda and ISIS were treated by the Israeli regime and that they had air support from the Israeli regime whenever the Syrian government would attack them -- so the relationship between Al-Qaeda and ISIS is not new -- the cooperation with these terrorists existed in Jordan , Israel and in Turkey and they facilitated the aid that came from the Persian Gulf , Europe and North America . <p> Tens of thousands of foreign fighters enter mostly from Turkey ; and from across the world and Western intelligence agencies were key to the movement of all those people and Western intelligence agencies and the Israelis are always on the same page the foreign fighters will never do anything that runs against the interests of the Israeli regime . <p> Hezbollah had to withdraw its troops from Syria to fight the war or at least to protect Lebanon from the Israeli regime and the Syrian government did not replace them adequately and that was a part of the problem . <p> As soon as the ceasefire took place in Lebanon Turkish intelligence and Israeli intelligence cooperated very closely and the Israelis have now taken key areas in southern Syria . <p> What would be the future of Syria right now ? Are they going to divide Syria in different parts or as Erdogan and his foreign minister are talking about the sovereignty of Syria should be respected . It 's very ironic that Turkish leaders are now speaking about Syrian sovereignty but they were the first to violate that Syrian sovereignty since 2011 . <p> Serena Ali Suhaim- A Lebanese American journalist with two kids was on the Syrian Turkish border when she reported in 2014 that Turkish intelligence was using World Food Organization trucks to supply ammunition and troops for ISIS . The Turkish government said that she 's a spy and on that same day as soon as she heard that she went on TV live and said they 're calling me a spy I 'm not a spy I 'm a journalist I 'm just reporting and then hours later she was killed . Obviously Turkish intelligence wanted to silence her and that 's not how you preserve a country 's sovereignty . <p> Now in different cities Syrians themselves are setting up militias to protect themselves and their towns from both the extremists but also thugs , thieves , gangs and Mafia groups . <p> Syria has fallen apart , the Israelis have destroyed the Syrian infrastructure , and the economy is broken . <p> The Americans and the Europeans are in an interesting position : if they remove the sanctions against Syria , they will empower the same people who , according to their narrative , carried out 9/11 . <p> Lebanon is now surrounded by Israel and al-Qaeda . However the burden of Syria is no longer on the shoulders of Hezbollah . Also Syria has been a burden for Russia , Iran , Hezbollah and Iraq and that burden no longer exists . Hezbollah had to protect citizens from the extremists . Iranians , Iraqis and Russians played their own role , and provided fuel and significant financial support to preserve Syria and that burden has been removed from them . <p> Hezbollah is very resourceful and very powerful and willingly sacrificed themselves for the people of Gaza . The image of the stature of Hezbollah has grown immensely of course they paid a heavy price . Hezbollah is too powerful and it 's too influential and it 's too popular for the French to do a great deal about it . <p> The war in Ukraine will continue to deplete the energy and resources and capabilities of Western Powers . The relative power of France , Germany , the USA and the British is very different from what it was three years ago and they have many challenges at home and abroad . <p> It is not Hezbollah that 's weakened , the Israeli regime is also severely weakened . The Israeli regime is constantly violating the ceasefire in Lebanon . Netanyahu wants to be seen as a conqueror at home and a powerful figure in order to remain in power but what he 's doing is that he 's humiliating Erdogan and Jolani . Israel is now making a new alliance with Saudi Arabia and UAE , against Yemen . Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates are making the grave mistake of entering an alliance against Ansar Allah -- the Houthi movement which will destroy their oil assets and that would wreck their economies . <p> Ansar Allah -- the Houthi movement is a very powerful force , survived a genocidal war where the collective West was supporting Saudi Arabia and the Emirates . Saudi Arabia and the Emirates spent hundreds of billions of dollars to undermine Ansar Allah -- the Houthi movement in Yemen but they could n't . Today Ansar Allah is much more powerful than what it was . Today we see the missiles that they 're firing at the Israeli regime . Ansar Allah has been defending the Palestinians and the people of Gaza during this period of time whereas no one else was doing anything . <p> Yemen is different from Syria . The demonization of Syria has been going on for 14 years and it has been more successful because these oil and gas dictatorships in the Persian Gulf region have tried very hard to make this sectarian issue from the very beginning and to use sectarian hatred and religious hatred in order to demonize the Syrian government and toturn ISIS and al-Qaeda into heroes . <p> During the 30 year war in Sri Lanka , LTTE killed more Tamils than anyone else . Similarly ISIS and al-Qaeda terrorists killed more Sunnis in Syria and Iraq than anyone else . <p> The Sunni areas of Iraq were targeted and destroyed by ISIS . Syria was economically broke since it failed to stand up economically because it was demonized so thoroughly . Anyone who joins a coalition against Ansar Allah will definitely be seen in a negative light by the people of their own countries . <p> There is a new agreement between Iran and Russia going to be signed in Moscow on January 20 , 2025 . <p> Erdogan , the Americans and the Israeli state in Syria only serve to strengthen Iranian and Russian ties further and in fact it serves to create more concern in China about the actions of NATO . We know that thousands of Uyghur speaking Chinese Nationals from Xinjiang , as well as Uyghur speaking Uzbekistan Nationals have been trained by Turkish intelligence and many thousands of Central Asians have also been trained and that is a threat to China and countries in Central Asia . It is also a threat to the Taliban because the past couple of years these terrorists tried to challenge the Taliban in certain areas . <p> The current situation is Syria will strengthen the cooperation among Shanghai Cooperation Organization countries and it 's going to be a further challenge to Erdogan and those who are supporting these terrorist groups . <p> United States is not going to be able to create space between Iran and its friendly countries , that 's just simply not possible whether Russia or China or any other country that has treated Iran with respect at a time when the Americans and the Europeans were trying to undermine Iran that 's something that Iranians will remember and there 's no chance that the Iranians are going to come to trust Trump or anyone else in the United States or European capitals anytime soon after all they 've done to Iran after all the harm they 've caused . <p> The Iranians made huge concessions in the nuclear deal enormous concessions it 's still being argued in Iran , but the Americans and the Europeans never intended to abide by the commitments they never intended to do so from the very beginning under Obama -- they violated the deal just like the Minsk Accords- they were never serious and and that 's because of their exceptionalism that 's because they consider themselves to be superior they consider themselves to have exceptional rights . So when you 're dealing with countries that believe they have exceptional rights which believe that they can violate their commitments yet they expect the other side to abide by their commitments how can you ever trust them ? How can you ever move close to them ? You have to treat them with great caution and that is one of the reasons why the West is on the decline because no one trusts them anymore since they support genocide ; they create and promote never ending wars ; and their behavior towards the global South . <p> Trump is more crude in his language when he speaks about Greenland or Panama but the mentality of the United States has always been that the whole of Latin America is their backyard . The whole notion of having a backyard is outrageous but Trump is basically saying explicitly what the collective mentality of the Elites in the west are and the United States in particular . <p> Iranians will continue to improve their relations with Russia , China and India . If Iran is able to come to terms with the West , if it 's able to have an agreement with the West that is Meaningful , it will do it . <p> The collective west could n't overthrow Cuba or Venezuela but the west is dreaming about overthrowing Iran and Russia . <p> Iranian 's culture is very similar to the Sufi culture of Turkey , and that 's why if you travel back and forth from Turkey and Iran you 'll feel very much at home because of the similarities . <p> Ever since 2011 we 've had the rise of Salafism in Turkey and this is going to be increasingly a serious problem . <p> Biden said himself very explicitly that he 's a Zionist and two closest people to him with regards to foreign policy were Jake Sullivan and Antony Blinken who are Zionists . <p> Iranians do n't like Trump , since he murdered Iranian General Qasem Soleimani , his Companions and his Iraqi allies . However , what Biden did to Gaza ; to Lebanon . to the region ; to Syria ; and to Yemen is far worse than anything Trump has done during his tenure . <p> The genocide , the holocaust , the slaughter , the destruction , the devastation , the ruin of so much of Western Asia was carried out by Biden . Without Biden it would n't have happened ; without Jake Sullivan ; without Antony Blinken ; none of this could have happened . The dislike for the Biden regime is much greater than the dislike for Trump . <p> Western leaders should not take the wishful thinking of Western media and Western think tanks too seriously as these media and think tanks were informing how the Russian ruble will be turned into rubble and how the Russians are devastated in Ukraine . <p> The world that we live in today is very different from the world that Trump was dealing with during his first term as a President . Since then , things have changed enormously . <h> Leave a Reply <p> Disclaimer : The comments contained within this website are personal reflection only and do not necessarily reflect the views of the LankaWeb . LankaWeb.com offers the contents of this website without charge , but does not necessarily endorse the views and opinions expressed within . Neither the LankaWeb nor the individual authors of any material on this Web site accept responsibility for any loss or damage , however caused ( including through negligence ) , which you may directly or indirectly suffer arising out of your use of or reliance on information contained on or accessed through this Web site . All views and opinions presented in this article are solely those of the surfer and do not necessarily represent those of LankaWeb.com . <p> This entry was posted on Friday , December 27th , 2024 . You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 feed . You can skip to the end and leave a response . 
@@119335193 <p> Pain shudders through the arteries of global society . Day after day passes by as the genocide against the Palestinian people continues and the conflicts in the Great Lakes region of Africa and Sudan escalate . More and more people slip into absolute poverty as arms companies ' profits soar . These realities have hardened society , allowing people to bury their heads and ignore the horrors unfolding across the world . Ferocious disregard for the pain of others has become a way to protect oneself from the inflation of suffering . What can one do with the wretchedness that has come to define life across the planet ? What can I do ? What can you do ? <p> In 2015 , the Palestinian poet Dareen Tatour wrote Qawim ya sha'abi , qawimhum ( Resist , My People , Resist Them ) , for which she was arrested and imprisoned by the Israeli state . A poem that can send you to prison is a powerful poem . A state threatened by a poem is an immoral state . <p> Resist , my people , resist them.In Jerusalem , I dressed my wounds and breathed my sorrows to God.I carried the soul in my palmfor an Arab Palestine.I will not succumb to the ' peaceful solution ' , never lower my flagsuntil I evict them from my homelandand make them kneel for a time to come.Resist , my people , resist them.Resist the settler 's robberyand follow the caravan of martyrs.Shred the disgraceful constitutionthat has imposed relentless humiliationand stopped us from restoring our rights.They burned blameless children ; As for Hadeel , they sniped her in public , killed her in broad daylight.Resist , my people , resist them.Resist the colonialist 's onslaught.Pay no mind to his agents among uswho shackle us with illusions of peace.Do not fear the Merkava Israeli army tanks ; the truth in your heart is stronger , as long as you resist in a landthat has lived through raids and victory.Ali called from his grave:resist , my rebellious people , write me as prose on the agarwood , for you have become the answer to my remains.Resist , my people , resist them.Resist , my people , resist them . <p> ' Hadeel ' in the poem refers to Hadeel al-Hashlamoun ( age 18 ) , who was shot dead by an Israeli soldier on 22 September 2015 . This murder took place alongside a wave of shootings -- many fatal -- against Palestinians by Israeli soldiers at checkpoints in the West Bank . On that day , Hadeel came to Checkpoint 56 on al-Shuhada Street in Hebron ( Occupied Palestinian Territory ) . The metal detector beeped , and the soldiers told her to open her bag , which she did . Inside was a phone , a blue Pilot pen , a brown pencil case , and other personal belongings . A soldier yelled at her in Hebrew , which she did not understand . Thirty-four-year-old Fawaz Abu Aisheh , who was nearby , intervened and told her what was being said . More soldiers arrived and aimed their guns at both Hadeel and Fawaz . One soldier fired a warning shot and then shot Hadeel in the left leg . <p> At this point , a soldier , claiming he saw a knife , fired several shots into Hadeel 's chest , who was photographed standing still moments before . After being left on the ground for some time , she was taken to a hospital , where she died of blood loss and multi-system failure resulting from the gunshot wounds . Human rights organisations such as Amnesty International and B'Tselem said that the question of the knife was moot since Hadeel had been the subject of an ' extrajudicial execution ' ( let alone the fact that testimonies about the knife were inconsistent ) . Tatour 's depiction of Hadeel 's execution in broad daylight is a powerful reminder of the waves of violence that structure the daily lives of Palestinians . <p> A month after Hadeel was killed , I met a group of teenagers in a refugee camp near Ramallah . They told me that they see no outlet for their frustrations and anger . What they do see is the daily humiliation of their families and friends by the Occupation , which drives them to desperation . ' We have to do something ' , Nabil says . His eyes are tired . He looks older than his teenage years . He has lost friends to Israeli violence . ' We marched to Qalandiya last year in a peaceful protest ' , Nabil tells me . ' They fired at us . My friend died ' . Colonial violence bears down on his spirit . Around him young children are executed with impunity by the Israeli military . Nabil 's body twitches with anxiety and fear . <p> I have thought about those teenagers often , especially over the last year , which has been defined by the escalation of the US-Israeli genocide against Palestinians . I think of them because of the barrage of stories about young people like Hadeel and Nabil 's friend being killed by Israeli troops not just in Gaza , but in the West Bank . <p> On 3 November 2024 , fourteen-year-old Naji al-Baba from Halhul , north of Hebron , came home from school with his father Nidal Abdel Moti al-Baba . They ate molokhia , his favourite , for lunch , and then Naji told his father he was going to play football . Naji and his friends played next to his grandfather 's shop . Israeli soldiers arrived and shot at the boys , hitting Naji in the pelvis , foot , heart , and shoulder . After the funeral , Nasser Merib , the manager of the Halhul Sports Club , where Naji practised , said that he had a strong right foot . ' He was ambitious and dreamed of becoming international like Ronaldo ' . That dream was destroyed by the Israeli occupation . <p> The death of a young person is an unforgivable act . The death of a child is particularly hard to fathom . Naji could have captained the Palestinian football team . Hadeel could have become an extraordinary scientist . Their families look at the photographs that remain and weep . In Gaza , other families sit in tents with no way to remember their lost children , their bodies obliterated or missing and their pictures turned to ash in the rubble . So much death . So much inhumanity . <p> If time and struggle allow us , we will be able to properly awaken the dreams of humanity . But the night before dawn will be long and hard . We crave humanity , but we do not expect it to arrive easily . Small voices call out for a new world , and many feet march to build it . To get there will require putting an end to war and occupation and to the ugliness of capitalism and imperialism . We know that we live in pre-history , in the era before true human history will begin . How we long for that socialist world , where Naji and Hadeel will have a future before them and not just a brief interlude in our world . <p> Happy New Year . May it bring us closer to humanity . <h> Leave a Reply <p> Disclaimer : The comments contained within this website are personal reflection only and do not necessarily reflect the views of the LankaWeb . LankaWeb.com offers the contents of this website without charge , but does not necessarily endorse the views and opinions expressed within . Neither the LankaWeb nor the individual authors of any material on this Web site accept responsibility for any loss or damage , however caused ( including through negligence ) , which you may directly or indirectly suffer arising out of your use of or reliance on information contained on or accessed through this Web site . All views and opinions presented in this article are solely those of the surfer and do not necessarily represent those of LankaWeb.com . <p> This entry was posted on Friday , December 27th , 2024 . You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 feed . You can skip to the end and leave a response . 
@@119355996 <p> The Standard Group Plc is a multi-media organization with investments in media platforms spanning newspaper print operations , television , radio broadcasting , digital and online services . The Standard Group is recognized as a leading multi-media house in Kenya with a key influence in matters of national and international interest . <h> DIGGER CLASSIFIED <h> My barbs and bouquets to those who made a difference in 2024 <h> Loading Article ... <p> For the best experience , please enable JavaScript in your browser settings . <p> Kamotho Waiganjo is an advocate of the High Court of Kenya . <p> It is that time of the year when this column appreciates those that made a difference for Kenya and throw some barbs the direction of those who caused distress . Our first bouquet goes to the teaching profession , specifically lecturers in public universities . <p> I have recently gone back to school and have interacted intensely with this portion of a much-neglected profession . Firstly , the typical university lecturer belongs to the top percentile of our brightest and many have taken teaching as a service to country . <p> We ought to be celebrating and giving them incentives to enable them convert their intellect for the benefit of the country . Instead , we shoulder them with a punishing load of teaching , allocating them numerous barely related undergraduate classes , supervision of scores of Masters and PhD students and then pay them a pittance . To survive , they have to engage in moonlighting as part time consultants or in professional fields . <p> Theirs is a tough life . To the committed ones , because there is also a population of malingerers among them , a bouquet is well deserved . <p> The next bouquet goes to Generation Z , the youngsters who in June put their lives on the line to demand a fairer and more just country . Because this group comprised our children , our nephews and our nieces , we interacted closely with them and know just how passionately they felt and how well informed they were . <p> Predictably , their protests were infiltrated , and many were caught up in senseless violence , destruction and mayhem that defined later days of the protests . <p> These latter events must not detract from the passionate but tribeless , classless nature of the initial Gen Z protests and the way that generation utilised their smart phones , the internet and social media to innovatively advance their cause . Kenya owes this group a debt of gratitude . <p> We trust that the consciousness they unleashed will not go to waste but rekindle a new patriotism willing to pay a price for a fairer more just Kenya . The final group which gets a bouquet and a barb is our police officers . <p> While we love to hate our cops , the reality is these fellows interact with society at its worst and deal with situations we would not be caught near . They handle cases of extreme violence , grisly accidents , and irresponsible and rude drivers in the scorching heat or heavy rains . <p> Many do this with zest and good humour . Despite all their many other faults , these fellow Kenyans , who are paid minuscule wages and live in dingy police lines , deserve our respect . They hereby get a bouquet . <p> The first barb however also goes to police officers . These are the fellows who clobber women as they demonstrate against gender-based violence . Whatever IG Douglas Kanja says , these officials , in whatever formation they are operating , are responsible for the ongoing abductions and disappearances , otherwise they would have arrested the abductors or fake abductees , if such exist . <p> The second barb goes to Kenyan drivers . I am not talking about the " matatu madness " lot . My barb is reserved for the otherwise rational , sensible and cultured Kenyans who go nuts when on the road . They blatantly and predictably ignore basic traffic rules , desecrate basic courtesies and ultimately produce the snarl ups that we have seen on the Nairobi-Naivasha highway this holiday . <p> This selfish foolishness is part of the reason our leaders , many of whom have similar approaches to life , have contempt for us . My final barb is international since its infamy defines the globe in 2024 . It has to do with the ongoing carnage in Gaza . <p> While I accept that the terrorist events of October 6th demanded a strong response , the State of Israel is not a terrorist organisation . It must therefore operate within certain bounds especially in relation to civilians . The wanton deaths of thousands of Palestinian civilians can not be justified under any circumstances . <p> For those acts , Netanyahu and his ilk get a barb , however ineffective it may be . As the year comes to an end , I pray that the acts of those we have celebrated will give us the impetus to be better in 2025 , while avoiding the errors that the barb receivers made in 2024 . Merry Christmas and a blessed 2025. 
@@119356007 <p> The Standard Group Plc is a multi-media organization with investments in media platforms spanning newspaper print operations , television , radio broadcasting , digital and online services . The Standard Group is recognized as a leading multi-media house in Kenya with a key influence in matters of national and international interest . <h> DIGGER CLASSIFIED <h> Huthis claim new attacks on Israel after strikes hit Yemen airport <h> Loading Article ... <p> For the best experience , please enable JavaScript in your browser settings . <p> The damaged control tower of Sanaa international airport stands on December 27 , 2024 , following Israeli strikes at the site the previous day . Photo , AFP <p> Yemeni rebels claimed a strike against the airport in Israel 's commercial hub of Tel Aviv on Friday , after Israeli air strikes hit rebel-held Sanaa 's international airport and other targets in Yemen . <p> The Israeli strikes on Thursday landed as the head of the UN 's World Health Organization said he and his team were preparing to fly out from Yemen 's Huthi rebel-held capital . <p> Hours later on Friday , the Huthis said they fired a missile at Ben Gurion airport and launched drones at Tel Aviv as well as a ship in the Arabian Sea . <p> No other details were immediately available . <p> Yemen 's civil aviation authority said the airport planned to reopen on Friday after the strikes that it said occurred while the UN aircraft " was getting ready for its scheduled flight " . <p> The Israeli military did not immediately respond to a request for comment on whether they knew at the time that WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus was there . Israel 's attack came a day after the Iran-backed Huthi rebels claimed the firing of a missile and two drones at Israel . <p> Yemen 's Huthis have stepped up their attacks against Israel since late November when a ceasefire took effect between Israel and another Iran-backed group , Lebanon 's Hezbollah . <p> The Huthis Al-Masirah TV said the Israeli strikes killed six people , after earlier Huthi statements said two people died at the rebel-held capital 's airport , and another at Ras Issa port . <p> The strikes targeting the airport , military facilities and power stations in rebel areas marked the second time since December 19 that Israel has hit targets in Yemen after rebel missile fire towards Israel . <p> In his latest warning to the rebels , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Israel would " continue until the job is done " . <p> " We are determined to cut this branch of terrorism from the Iranian axis of evil , " he said in a video statement . <h> - Yemenis depend on aid - <p> UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres denounced the " escalation " in hostilities between Israel and the Huthis and called the Sanaa airport strikes " especially alarming " . <p> He said bombing transportation infrastructure posed a threat to humanitarian operations in Yemen , where 80 percent of the population is dependent on aid . <p> Tedros was in Yemen to seek the release of UN staff detained for months by the Huthis , and to assess the humanitarian situation . <p> He said he and other UN staff were about to board their flight when " the airport came under aerial bombardment " . <p> A witness told AFP that " more than six " attacks struck the rebel-held capital 's airport , with raids also targeting the adjacent Al-Dailami air base . <p> A series of strikes also targeted a power station in Hodeida , on the rebel-held coast , a witness and Al-Masirah TV said . <p> Following rebel attacks against Israel , Israeli strikes had already twice this year hit Hodeida , a major entry point for humanitarian aid to impoverished Yemen , which has been ravaged for years by its own war . <p> On December 19 , after the rebels fired a missile towards Israel and badly damaged a school , Israel for the first time struck targets in Sanaa . It said the strikes were against ports and energy infrastructure that " effectively contributed to " Huthi military actions . <p> Huthi media said those strikes killed nine people . <p> In the latest attacks , the Israeli military said its " fighter jets conducted intelligence-based strikes on military targets belonging to the Huthi terrorist regime " . <h> - ' Iranian weapons ' - <p> The targets included " military infrastructure " at the airport and power stations in Sanaa and Hodeida , as well as other facilities at Hodeida , Salif and Ras Kanatib ports , an Israeli statement said . <p> The targets were used by Huthis " to smuggle Iranian weapons into the region and for the entry of senior Iranian officials , " the statement said . <p> Iran 's foreign ministry condemned Israel 's strikes as a " clear violation of international peace and security and an undeniable crime against the heroic and noble people of Yemen " . <p> Palestinian militant group Hamas , whose top leaders Israel has killed during the war in the Gaza Strip , condemned the attack as an " aggression " against its " brothers from Yemen " . <p> Almost a week ago , on December 21 , Israel 's military and emergency services said a projectile fired from Yemen wounded 16 people in Israel 's commercial centre , Tel Aviv . <p> The Huthis have repeatedly fired missiles and drones at Israel since the Gaza war began in October last year , claiming solidarity with the Palestinians . <p> They have similarly attacked commercial shipping in the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden , waters vital to world trade . <p> Scores of drone and missile attacks on cargo ships have prompted reprisal strikes against Huthi targets by US and sometimes British forces . <p> In July , a Huthi drone attack on Tel Aviv killed an Israeli civilian , prompting the first Israeli retaliation on Hodeida . <p> The Huthis control large parts of Yemen after seizing the capital and ousting the internationally recognised government in September 2014 . <p> A Saudi-led coalition in March 2015 began a military campaign to dislodge them that was unsuccessful , despite what the Yemen Data Project , an independent tracker , said were more than 25,000 coalition air raids . 
@@119386473 <p> The Standard Group Plc is a multi-media organization with investments in media platforms spanning newspaper print operations , television , radio broadcasting , digital and online services . The Standard Group is recognized as a leading multi-media house in Kenya with a key influence in matters of national and international interest . <h> DIGGER CLASSIFIED <h> Islamic countries should seek peace and prosperity jointly <h> Loading Article ... <p> For the best experience , please enable JavaScript in your browser settings . <p> People inspect the site of reported Israeli bombardment on tents sheltering Palestinians displaced from Beit Lahia at a camp in Khan Yunis in the southern GazaStrip on December 25 , 2024 . AFP <p> As a student of international relations with decades at the forefront of global diplomacy , I write this not as a representative of the Iranian government but solely in my personal capacity . My experiences have taught me that achieving stability in West Asia , particularly the Persian Gulf region , requires more than mere crisis management . It demands bold , visionary initiatives . I propose the establishment of a Muslim West Asian Dialogue Association ( MWADA ) as the mechanism to achieve this transformation . <p> MWADA should invite all core Muslim countries in West Asia -- Bahrain , Egypt , Iran , Iraq , Jordan , Kuwait , Lebanon , Oman , Qatar , Saudi Arabia , ( the future government of ) Syria , Turkey , the United Arab Emirates and Yemen -- to engage in comprehensive negotiations . Relevant envoys from the United Nations can take part too . This initiative should be grounded in the sublime values of our common religion , Islam , and on the principles of sovereignty , territorial integrity , non-intervention and collective security . MWADA , meaning " amity " in Arabic -- the language of our collective prayers -- ought to aim to foster peaceful coexistence and equitable partnerships . <p> A key priority is the establishment of immediate sustainable , permanent ceasefires in Gaza , Lebanon , Syria and Yemen . A non-aggression pact among MWADA states , coupled with collective regional monitoring , will help institutionalise stability and protect the region from external interference as well as from internal strife . <p> Economic integration is also central to the vision . The lack of interdependence within West Asia stems from fragmented trade networks , insufficient attention to the development of intra-regional banking and payment mechanisms , political rivalries and a reliance on external markets . A proposed MWADA Development Fund can finance critical infrastructure projects , particularly in devastated post-conflict areas . Additionally , governance reforms in Syria -- as a basis for economic assistance -- will promote accountability and lay the groundwork for a safe and stable country where women and minorities can thrive . <p> Post-Assad Syria presents a major challenge to us all . Unbridled Israeli aggression disregarding Syrian sovereignty , foreign interference undermining Syrian territorial integrity , horrifying scenes of violence and brutality reminiscent of Islamic State savagery , and ethnic and sectarian violence -- which may lead to an all-out civil war -- require the immediate attention of the proposed MWADA . <p> The humanitarian disaster in Palestine also remains critical for regional stability . MWADA must prioritise Palestinian self-determination and support just solutions while fully respecting the aspirations of the people . This should involve not just political solutions but also economic opportunities and the recognition of Palestinian rights . <p> MWADA will provide fertile ground for infrastructure projects , from transport to energy pipelines and telecommunication networks . These will facilitate not only the movement of goods but also the exchange of energy , information and services . 
@@119386498 <p> The Standard Group Plc is a multi-media organization with investments in media platforms spanning newspaper print operations , television , radio broadcasting , digital and online services . The Standard Group is recognized as a leading multi-media house in Kenya with a key influence in matters of national and international interest . <h> Loading Article ... <p> For the best experience , please enable JavaScript in your browser settings . <p> This photo shows the destruction of the Sanaa International Airport after Israeli airstrikes in Sanaa , Yemen , on Dec. 27 , 2024 . Xinhua <p> Operations at Sanaa International Airport and Hodeidah Port have resumed normal activities following a series of strikes launched by Israel , the Houthi group said on Friday . <p> " Sanaa International Airport and Hodeidah Port are fully prepared to operate at full capacity , " Mohammed Qahim , head of Houthi transport authorities , told the Houthi-run Saba News Agency , adding that the airport is technically capable of receiving civilian flights , UN aircraft , and humanitarian aid deliveries around the clock . <p> Qahim also criticized the recent Israeli airstrikes , which he claimed were aimed at disrupting air traffic and maritime operations in Yemen . <p> The Israeli warplanes on Thursday hit Houthi-used infrastructures in the Sanaa International Airport , and the Hezyaz and Ras Kanatib power stations , both located in Houthi-controlled areas , as well as the ports of Hodeidah , Salif , and Ras Kanatib on the western coast , the military said in a statement , claiming that Houthis used those sites to smuggle Iranian weapons into the region and for the entry of senior Iranian officials . <p> The Houthi-run al-Masirah TV reported that the strikes caused significant damage , killing at least six people and injuring dozens of others . A UN staff member , who arrived in the Yemeni capital for the negotiation over the release of UN staff detained by the Houthi group , was among the injured . <p> Following the assault , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu reaffirmed his resolve to dismantle the Houthis ' military capabilities , saying , " We are determined to cut off this terror arm of the Iranian axis of evil . " <p> The Houthis , who control much of northern Yemen , have been launching regular rocket and drone attacks against Israel and disrupting " Israeli-linked " shipping in the Red Sea since November 2023 to show solidarity with Palestinians in Gaza amid their conflict with Israelis . 
@@119400519 <h> By Nalliah Thayabharan <p> Germany 's political landscape is undergoing a seismic shift as the Bundestag has been officially dissolved triggering snap elections that could reshape the nation 's future . President Frank-Walter Steinmeier made the dramatic announcement on December 27 , 2024 marking a critical moment in German Democratic history . The dissolution follows Chancellor Olaf Scholz 's unexpected loss of a confidence vote on December 16 , 2024 effectively ending his coalition government . <p> The Free Democratic Party 's withdrawal from the ruling coalition precipitated this unprecedented political crisis . The move has left Olaf Scholz 's Social Democratic Party without a parliamentary majority forcing an immediate electoral intervention . <p> Snap elections are now scheduled for February 23 , 2025 -- a date carefully negotiated by Germany 's major political parties . It 's a moment that could fundamentally alter the country 's political trajectory since significant changes are brewing . The Christian Democratic Union led by Friedrich Merz is currently leading by 10% over the Social Democratic Party . This shift represents a substantial realignment of German political power . <p> Alternative for Germany -- a far-right and right-wing populist political party is also polling strongly though they continue to face significant challenges in forming potential coalitions . Their rise highlights the growing complexity of Germany 's political landscape . <p> President Frank-Walter Steinmeier emphasized the critical nature of this moment warning against hatred and violence in the upcoming election campaign . He described political stability as a precious asset that must be carefully protected . <p> The upcoming elections will focus on several critical national issues including economic challenges , immigration policies , support for Ukraine and climate change strategies . Each party will be seeking to present compelling solutions to these complex problems . <p> Friedrich Merz has already positioned the Christian Democratic Union as an alternative to the current government criticizing Olaf Scholz 's Administration for what he describes as excessive economic regulation . His strategy involves presenting the Christian Democratic Union as a more dynamic and responsive political option . <p> The dissolution represents more than just a procedural political event -- it 's a potential turning point that could reshape Germany 's domestic and international political approach . Thefragmentation of the current coalition signals deeper challenges within the nation 's political system . <p> Rolf Heinrich M ? tzenich -- leader of the Social Democratic Party 's Parliamentary faction suggested the snap elections would allow German to refocus on what 's truly important . " We can now concentrate on what is really good for our country " he stated indicating a desire to move beyond current political deadlock . The geopolitical implications of these elections extend far beyond Germany 's borders . <p> With ongoing conflicts in Ukraine and economic uncertainties globally , the next government 's composition will have significant international consequences . As Germany prepares for this critical electoral moment politically the potential for significant political realignment has captured national and international attention making these upcoming elections a pivotal moment in contemporary European politics . <p> Germany stands at a crossroads with voters set to determine the future direction of one of Europe 's most powerful and influential economies . The coming weeks will be crucial in shaping Germany 's political landscape . <p> We are living in a time of worldwide global political crisis , German government 's actions were very shortsighted and very incompetent and more and more Germans no longer feel represented by the political parties . Similar to Canadians , Germans rightly feel that the government no longer represents their interests and that the established parties hardly defer on key political issues . All four political parties -- the Social Democrats , the Greens , the Liberals , and the Conservative Christian democrats support a toxic policy mix of participating in US proxy wars such as in Ukraine or in Gaza implementing economic sanctions and rearmament while at the same time cutting social spendings . <p> So the consequences in Germany are a shrinking economy , poor infrastructure and exploding energy prices and inflation and this unsettles many Germans and they do n't know what party to vote for or out of desperation they may turn to the right to the right-wing parties . <p> Like Canada , Germany will no longer be recognizable in 10 years time as the German Political parties failed on the issue of peace and abandoned Germany 's anti-war policies and positions . <p> Olaf Scholz 's Social Democratic Party has become a party of progressive neoliberalism together with a focus on identity politics rather than leftwing class politics -- economic and social policy in the interest of the working class people . <p> The extreme right party is gaining strength so the right-wing alternative for Germany is pulling at over 20% nationwide and even over 30% in some federal states in eastern Germany . <p> The economy in Germany is very much dependent on the geopolitical interest of the US . The sanctions and the economic warfare against Russia including the energy sanctions hit the German economy while the US economy is benefiting from the energy sanctions exporting more natural gas to European Countries including Germany . <p> Germany is a country poor in raw materials and strong in exports , so a large part of prosperity depends on industrial value creation , so that 's why Germany needs cheap energy from Russia . <p> Germany no longer relies on mediation , balancing interests and diplomacy but it 's playing the military card in more and more conflicts around the world , though the conflicts and wars in Ukraine and in the Middle East can not be resolved militarily . <p> To widen the corridor of opinions , Germany should stop the cancel culture which is a poison for democracy . Anyone who does not agree with the mainstream opinion bubble is quickly defamed and this is unworthy for a democracy and it 's poison for Germany 's democracy . <p> More than half of the Germans no longer dares to speak their mind openly outside of a protected space and this is the poison for democracy . That 's why bringing back anti-war politics is so important and we have that missing in the US and Canada as well . <p> Germans are very much not just in support of Israel 's genocide in Gaza but Germany is in many ways a participant and giving so much legal and diplomatic cover and constantly aiding Israel . Germany is after the United States and United Kingdom , the third largest arms and ammunition supplier for Israel . <p> There 's a popular dissatisfaction among Germans with Europe 's and Germany 's foreign policy of unconditional submission to the US hegemonic policy supporting all these US proxy wars . <p> Regarding Gaza and Ukraine in principle Europe must become an independent player instead of being a pawn in the conflict and a vassal to the United States . <p> In view of the suffering in West Asia and especially of the people in Gaza and the West Bank , there is no alternative to an immediate ceasefire . Ceasefire is not everything but without a ceasefire is everything nothing . <p> By supporting Israeli warfare the West shares responsibility for the mass murder of Palestinians . <p> The U.S. has done a frighteningly good job of binding its European vassals to itself , not only economically through trade measures and militarily through NATO , but by shaping their whole leadership class via American schools and institutions . Olaf Scholz and his compatriots literally ca n't see the damage they 're doing to their own countries because they 've so thoroughly bought into the American mindset . The establishment across America , Germany , the UK , France , Canada , Italy seem to all be making the same fatal mistake with no ability to learn from their own or their counterparts ' mistakes . What did repeat though , several times , was US foreign policy causing trouble in Europe 's neighborhood , creating waves of immigrants . The cause of migration is directly linked to their adherence to free trade imperialism and their subservience to Washington . They could easily tackle the problem , but not without breaking with transatlanticism . And so they prefer to not do anything . They 're all going to go down with the Empire . The USA has only expendable pawns . <h> Leave a Reply <p> Disclaimer : The comments contained within this website are personal reflection only and do not necessarily reflect the views of the LankaWeb . LankaWeb.com offers the contents of this website without charge , but does not necessarily endorse the views and opinions expressed within . Neither the LankaWeb nor the individual authors of any material on this Web site accept responsibility for any loss or damage , however caused ( including through negligence ) , which you may directly or indirectly suffer arising out of your use of or reliance on information contained on or accessed through this Web site . All views and opinions presented in this article are solely those of the surfer and do not necessarily represent those of LankaWeb.com . <p> This entry was posted on Saturday , December 28th , 2024 . You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 feed . You can skip to the end and leave a response . 
@@119409449 <h> Israel says 20 militants killed in Gaza hospital raid <p> A woman cooks at a camp for displaced Palestinians in Khan Yunis , in the southern Gaza Strip on December 29 , 2024 , amid the continuing war between Israel and the militant Hamas group . ( Photo by BASHAR TALEB / AFP ) <p> Israel 's military said Sunday forces had killed approximately 20 Palestinian militants in a raid on a northern Gaza hospital , calling it one of its " largest operations " conducted in the territory . <p> The assault on Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza 's Beit Lahia area began early on Friday , and the World Health Organization said it left the area 's last major health facility emptied of patients and staff . <p> " During the operation , approximately 20 terrorists were eliminated , and powerful explosive devices planted by the terrorists were neutralised , " the military said in a statement released on Sunday . <p> The raid concluded on Saturday after the military said it had apprehended " 240 terrorists " belonging to the Hamas and Islamic Jihad militant groups . <p> The military also said it had detained the hospital 's director , Hossam Abu Safiyeh , whom it suspects is a Hamas militant . <p> " This is one of the largest operations to apprehend terrorists conducted in a single location since the beginning of the war , " the military said on Sunday . <p> " Field investigators from Unit 504 directed the apprehension process and conducted hundreds of field interrogations to transfer 240 terrorists belonging to the Islamic Jihad and Hamas terrorist organisations for further investigation in Israeli territory . " <p> When asked if Abu Safiyeh had been transferred to Israeli territory for further questioning , the military did not offer an immediate comment . <p> The military said that among those detained it has identified 15 militants who took part in the October 7 , 2023 Hamas attack on Israel . <p> Gaza health officials and the WHO said the raid forced the hospital out of service . <p> The military said the raid was carried out " against a Hamas command centre in the hospital " . Hamas denies the accusation . <p> Since October 6 this year , Israeli operations in Gaza have focused on the north , where they say their land and air offensive aims to prevent Hamas from regrouping. 
@@119433651 <p> Wearing a safety belt , helmet and work boots , Raju Nishad navigates the scaffolding , hammering blocks that will form part of a building in a new neighbourhood in central Israel 's town of Beer Yaakov . <p> While he and other Indians working alongside him do not look out of place on the expansive construction site , they are relative newcomers to Israel 's building industry . <p> They are part of an Israeli government effort to fill a void left by tens of thousands of Palestinian construction workers barred from entering Israel since Hamas 's unprecedented October 7 , 2023 attack . <p> If that attack had not happened , this site , with its slowly emerging high-rise towers , homes , roads and pavements , would have teemed with labourers speaking Arabic -- unlike the Hindi , Hebrew and even Mandarin of today . <p> The Hamas attack triggered the deadliest war yet between Israel and militant group Hamas in the Gaza Strip . <p> It later spread to include other Iran-backed groups including Hezbollah in Lebanon and Huthi rebels in Yemen , and even direct confrontation with the Islamic republic itself . <p> Indians have been employed in Israel for decades , thousands as caregivers looking after elderly Israelis , while others work as diamond traders and IT professionals . <p> But since the war in Gaza escalated , recruiters have launched a drive to bring Indians in for Israel 's construction sector also . <p> Samir Khosla , chairman of Delhi-based Dynamic Staffing Services , which has sent about 500,000 Indians to work in more than 30 countries , has so far brought more than 3,500 workers to Israel , a new market for him . <p> Thousands of kilometres from home , Indian construction workers prepare a meal at their flat in the Israeli coastal city of Tel Aviv . Photo : Menahem KAHANA / AFPSource : AFP <p> Khosla himself arrived for the first time a month after the October 7 attack , after the authorities appealed for foreign workers in the construction industry , which ground to a halt when the Gaza war broke out . <p> " We did n't know much about the market , and there was n't an incumbent workforce from India here , " Khosla said . <p> " We really had to move around and understand the needs , " he said , adding that he believed India was a natural choice for Israel given their " excellent relations " . <p> He now hopes to bring in up to 10,000 Indian labourers , as he has a large pool of skilled Indian workers across all trades . <h> Long-term effects possible <p> In nearby Tel Aviv , a group of Indians live in a small flat where , in addition to the construction skills they brought with them , they have also learned to cook the familiar spicy dishes they miss from home . <p> " In a short time , one can earn more money " in Israel , said Suresh Kumar Verma , 39 . Like Nishad , he is from India 's most populous state , Uttar Pradesh . Verma works on a construction site north of Israel 's commercial capital . <p> " Making money is also necessary ... It 's important to continue working hard for the family 's future . " <p> Some Indian workers can earn in Israel three times what they would back home . Photo : Menahem KAHANA / AFPSource : AFP <p> Israeli researchers believe the number of Indians working in construction still does not match the number of Palestinians who did so before the war , and this is hampering the sector 's overall growth . <p> Before the Hamas attack , around 80,000 Palestinians were employed in construction , along with some 26,000 foreigners , Eyal Argov of the central Bank of Israel said . <p> Now there are about 30,000 foreigners employed , far fewer than the previous overall workforce figures , he said , adding that activity in the current quarter of 2024 is about 25 percent below pre-war levels . <p> " These numbers ( of Indians ) are still very low , " Argov said . <p> While this does not create an immediate " shortage of housing , it may cause delays in the supply of new housing " , he said . <p> " Israel has a growing population , increasing by two percent annually , and this delay might lead to some shortage in the future . " 
@@119454722 <p> The Standard Group Plc is a multi-media organization with investments in media platforms spanning newspaper print operations , television , radio broadcasting , digital and online services . The Standard Group is recognized as a leading multi-media house in Kenya with a key influence in matters of national and international interest . <h> DIGGER CLASSIFIED <h> A journey through happenings of the year that was <h> Loading Article ... <p> For the best experience , please enable JavaScript in your browser settings . <p> Chairperson of Indian conglomerate Adani Group , Gautam Adani addresses a gathering during the inaugural session of Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit 2024 in Gandhinagar on January 10 , 2024 . FILE , Standard <p> A : Adani deals . Nothing dominated public discourse in Kenya in the final quarter of the year like government deals with India 's Adani Group , owned by Gautam Adani , one of the richest men in Asia . Two deals -- one to run Jomo Kenyatta International Airport and another , a public-private partnership with the Ministry of Energy for the firm to operate Ketraco power lines infrastructure -- created an uproar after a series of whistleblower revelations . The deals were eventually cancelled by President William Ruto in late November , a day after Adani had been indicted for fraud in the US <p> B : Broad-based government . Following rampant anti-government protests that culminated in an unprecedented breach of Parliament in June , President Ruto dismissed his Cabinet . In a bid to appease the Opposition , and with the belief that this would quell popular dissent , the President appointed several members from the ODM party into government as Cabinet Secretaries . In an interesting twist of events , they have since been seen to actively echo pro-government rhetoric , much to the chagrin of Kenyans , supporting the same policies they once bitterly opposed . <p> C : Chief of Defence Forces . On April 188 , a military helicopter crashed in Sindar , Elgeyo Marakwet County , killing the Chief of Kenya Defence Forces , Gen Francis Omondi Ogolla , who had been on a mission to reopen schools that had been closed due to banditry . He died alongside nine other military personnel , with two others injured . The General 's death generated considerable national furore , with some suggesting that the crash resembled a haphazardly executed assassination . Serious questions were subsequently raised about the helicopter , one of six Bell UH-1H Huey II helicopters acquired by the army from the US in 2016 , and the safety of these helicopters <p> D : Donald Trump . The now US President-elect , Donald Trump , was found guilty of 34 felony counts and convicted early in the year . As his woes worsened , he was shot at and injured during a campaign rally in July . However , Trump staged a phenomenal comeback to the presidency , winning the top seat in November . In doing so , he became the second US president ever -- after Grover Cleveland -- to return to power after a hiatus . <p> E : Eclipse . A total solar eclipse swept across North America , passing over Mexico , the United States , and Canada on April 8 , 2024 . Dubbed ' ' The Great North American Eclipse ' , it was the only solar eclipse in the 21st century with totality visible from all three of the aforementioned countries . For scientists , this was a remarkable event , worth noting in their journals for 2024 . The next total eclipse of similar width is expected to take place on August 12 , 2045 , although several other regions will experience solar eclipses of varying degrees before then . <p> F : Floods . Between April and May , torrential rainfall hit Kenya and Tanzania , leaving a trail of destruction across both countries . ReliefWeb estimated that 267 people were killed in Kenya by the end of April , and 188 were injured . Seventy five went missing , while 281,835 people ( 56,367 families ) were displaced . On April 29 , a railway embankment collapsed near Mai Mahiu , sending down a river that claimed 61 lives and flattened entire homesteads . Ill-equipped disaster response mechanisms were noted as one of the many reasons for the significant losses . <p> G : Gaza war : The armed conflict between Israel and Palestine , which started on October 7 , 2023 , raged on throughout the year . Several institutions , including the Gaza Health Ministry , reported total casualties of more than 53,000 ( at the time of going to press ) . Calls for a ceasefire have repeatedly borne no fruit , with regular , intermittent bombardments on the Gaza Strip , whose amenities have increasingly been targeted by Israel and face total destruction . <p> H : Harris ' bid . After relentless calls from powerful quarters , 82-year-old US President Joe Biden stepped down from the presidential race , leaving the ticket to , and endorsing , his vice president Kamala Harris . At the time of his exit , Biden was the oldest president in US history . <p> I : Iran President . In another unfortunate air accident , on May 19 , Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi , who had served in his position for three years , died . He was known as the ' Butcher of Tehran ' due to his involvement in the 1998 execution of thousands of political prisoners and was largely a polarising figure as president . <p> J : Jobs in Germany . President Ruto announced that Kenya and Germany had reached an agreement in which 250,000 skilled and semi-skilled workers would be sent to Germany . Berlin refuted claims about the numbers , stating that they would be based on the skill set of eligible Kenyans and available opportunities . Heated online debates followed , with opponents of the move being highly critical of the government 's drive to export labour . However , the first batch of Kenyan drivers arrived in Germany in September . <p> K : Keir Starmer . The United Kingdom got its sixth prime minister in eight years -- a period that began with David Cameron stepping down after losing the Brexit vote in June 2016 -- when Prime Minister Rishi Sunak lost the General Election in July , after less than two years in office . Keir Starmer had been , until then , the leader of the opposition . His victory ended 14 years of Conservative Party governance <p> L : Leadership . There has been a popular sentiment that Kenyans are over-represented in the two levels of government . But 2024 shows real , serious gaps in leadership , with politicians flip-flopping- barely standing for anything , changing their beliefs sporadically and supporting conflicting ideologies depending on the coalitions that have been developing in the country . <p> M : Mexico . Former Mayor and Head of Government of Mexico City , Claudia Sheinbaum Pardo , became the 66th president of Mexico in October in what was a landslide victory . In doing so , she also became the first woman to hold the office . She replaced the centre-left Andr ? s Manuel L ? pez Obrador . <p> N : Namibia . In the south of Africa , Namibians elected Ndemupelila Netumbo Nandi-Ndaitwah as the fifth president and the first female president . The 72-year-old is a woman of many firsts ; she served as the country 's third vice president from February 2024 and , in that capacity , was also the first woman . Namibia became one of very few African countries to elect a female president . <p> O:Opposition politician Alexei Navalny dies . Russia has been in the headlines for a long time , and for a number of issues , chief among them its attack on Ukraine . Another key issue was the death of Navalny , one of Vladimir Putin 's fiercest critics , who founded the Anti-Corruption Foundation in 2011 to investigate -- with the aim of combating -- corruption in Russia . He was poisoned in 2020 , jailed in 2021 , and died in 2024 . The prison service stated that he lost consciousness shortly before his death . <p> P : President Biden pardons Hunter . Despite promising not to , US President Joe Biden on December 1 ' ' fully and unconditionally ' ' pardoned his son , Hunter . Biden had promised not even to commute his son 's sentence . Hunter faced sentencing for federal tax and gun convictions , and his father 's decision to pardon him was met with significant discontent , with AP News reporting that only about two in 10 Americans approved of the decision . The Hunter issue was used by Republicans to campaign against his father . <p> Q : Queen Margrethe II . After serving for 52 years and becoming the second-longest serving Danish monarch ever , Queen Margrethe abdicated at the age of 84 , paving the way for her son , Crown Prince Frederik , 55 , to take the top seat . Her story has many similarities with that of Queen Elizabeth II , who also inherited her seat from her father , King George VI , and although she exited by death , left it to her son , King Charles III . <p> R : Riggy G 's woes . It has been a topsy-turvy year for Rigathi Gachagua , the self-declared ' Truthful Man ' , who was Kenya 's second Deputy President . Gachagua endured an unremarkable year in 2024 , facing accusations of attempting to sabotage his boss , the president , and was subsequently impeached . The National Assembly voted overwhelmingly to impeach him , with 282 votes to 44 , and the Senate , which required a two-thirds majority to remove Gachagua , confirmed his impeachment . <p> S : Syria civil war . Bashar al-Assad , who had been the President of Syria since 2000 , was ousted on December 8 , with rebel troops marching into Damascus . It had seemed impossible to remove the autocratic Assad family , which had been in power for six decades and had overseen intermittent bouts of civil war . Assad quickly fled to Moscow to seek political asylum from the Russian government . <p> T : Tebogo . Star sprinter Letsile ' Schoolboy ' Tebogo won a gold medal in the 200m race at the 2024 Summer Olympics in Paris , France , marking a first for Botswana . He set an African record of 19.46 seconds in the event . In doing so , the sprinter established himself as one of the finest short-distance runners in the world . <p> U : Uganda 's Kizza Besigye . After recurrent cases of abductions in the city and calls for President Ruto to take action , Uganda 's opposition leader Kizza Besigye was arrested by security forces in Nairobi on November 20 and ferried to Uganda . Despite initial claims by Kenya 's government of its non-involvement in his capture , Uganda confirmed it had enlisted the support of Kenya to arrest Besigye , with the aim of charging him in a Kampala court . Besigye has been a long-time opponent and critic of long-serving Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni . " <p> V : Vladimir wins election . Yet again , Russia 's President Vladimir Putin won a fifth term with an unprecedented 88 per cent of the vote in post-Soviet Russia and was inaugurated on May 7 . Putin has been either Prime Minister or President since 2000 . Since February 2022 , Russia has been engaged in a sustained invasion of Ukraine , from which he has refused to back down . <p> W- Wikileaks ' Assange released . Julian Assange , an editor and activist , was arrested in April 2019 and sentenced to 50 weeks in jail for breaching earlier bail conditions . He was then taken to London 's maximum-security Belmarsh prison . Assange , who founded WikiLeaks in 2006 , had the first arrest warrants issued against him in 2010 and was arrested and granted bail the same year . In 2019 , a federal grand jury in the US indicted him on 17 new alleged violations of the Espionage Act . He was released from jail on bail on June 24 , then pleaded guilty to one count of breaching the Espionage Act soon after and was allowed to return home to Australia . <p> X : X ban lifted in Brazil . Within six weeks , between August and October , a ban on X was introduced and then quashed , as Elon Musk 's platform had been accused of failing to comply with laws in Brazil . Fines were to be paid and a local representative appointed , and after weeks of defiance , X was deemed to have complied , leading a Supreme Court judge to lift the ban in the first week of October . <p> Y:Your year ? Do you remember starting the year holding onto the hope that this would be your year ? Writing down resolutions ? Did you make a conscious effort to ensure you achieved what you wanted ? Have you reflected on what went right and should therefore be upheld , and what went wrong and needs to change ? We often say that every year is our year . Does that include 2024 ? " <p> Z : Zambia 's Lungu barred from re-election . Zambia 's Constitutional Court barred former President Edgar Lungu from vying again in 2026 . Lungu became president in 2015 after President Michael Sata died in office in October 2014 . He has claimed that he did not complete a full term and should be allowed to start a fresh one . 
@@119469912 <h> The 10 big wars fought across the world in 2024 <p> About 1,200 people were killed , and more than 250 were taken to Gaza as hostages . <p> Ruins from the Hamas-Israel war/Handout <p> The world is currently experiencing a record number of conflicts and crises since the end of World War II . <p> Wars have been on the rise since about 2012 , after a decline in the 1990s and early 2000s . <p> From the war in Gaza , which is hitting civilians particularly hard , to the fighting in Sudan , which has caused a catastrophic humanitarian crisis . <p> The proportion of the world engulfed by conflict has grown 65 per cent over the past three years , according to the latest Conflict Intensity Index ( CII ) , published by risk analyst Verisk Maplecroft . <p> " Conflict risks are increasing , they have for the last few years and global businesses need to think about that . You can look at international media and think : ' I do n't have a factory in Sudan , it does not affect me , ' but because of the supply chain impacts , a conflict in a faraway place can impact you , " Hugo Brennan , research director at Verisk Maplecroft . <p> Gaza : <p> Gaza is currently the deadliest place for civilians in the world . <p> After the horrifying attacks of Hamas on October 7 , Israel reacted with one of the most destructive military campaigns in history . <p> The Palestinian militant group Hamas launched an unprecedented assault on Israel on 7 October , with hundreds of gunmen infiltrating communities near the Gaza Strip . <p> About 1,200 people were killed , and more than 250 were taken to Gaza as hostages , according to Israeli tallies . Since the escalation of the conflict , over 42,000 people have died in the Gaza Strip and more than 99,000 others have been injured . Over 60 per cent of the casualties are civilians . <p> Some 1.9 million people have been forced to leave their homes , almost the entire population of Gaza . This conflict has escalated with severe impacts on civilians and involvement from regional players . The United States backs Israel , while Iran supports Hamas . This conflict has broader implications for the Middle East region . <p> Russia-Ukraine : <p> Two years have passed since the start of the Russian invasion of Ukraine . This conflict involves significant military operations and has resulted in a high number of casualties and widespread impact . <p> It 's one of the largest conflicts in terms of international involvement and geopolitical implications . Attacks on civilians and infrastructure have intensified in the country , leaving 14.6 million in Ukraine still in need of humanitarian assistance . <p> A further 3.6 million people remain displaced in safer areas of the country . <p> Yemen : <p> The US and UK have been involved in the fight against Houthi rebels . <p> This conflict , though primarily a civil war within Yemen , has significant international involvement , especially from the Saudi-led coalition supported by the US and UK , and has caused a substantial humanitarian crisis . <p> Fighting broke out first in the capital Khartoum and quickly spread throughout the country . <p> More than 18 000 people have lost their lives and more than 33 000 others have been injured as a result of the fighting . <p> The conflict has quickly become one of the world 's largest humanitarian crises . Nearly half of the country 's population requires some form of humanitarian assistance , and the situation shows no signs of improving . <p> In fact , on March 20 , 2024 , the UN 's Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs warned that the country will soon be the site of the world 's worst hunger crisis . <p> Myanmar : <p> Following the military coup , this conflict has intensified with various ethnic and political groups involved , causing significant regional instability and humanitarian concerns . <p> In late October 2023 , a coalition of three ethnic armed groups in Shan State launched a coordinated offensive against the ruling military junta , posing the strongest challenge to its rule since the February 2021 coup . <p> Ethiopia : <p> With rebellions in different regions and rising tensions with Eritrea , this conflict has serious implications for the Horn of Africa region . <p> Armenia-Azerbaijan : <p> The conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh has seen military escalations and significant displacement of people , affecting the stability of the South Caucasus region . <p> Following Azerbaijan 's lightning offensive and occupation of Nagorno-Karabakh on September 19 , 2023 , the ethnic Armenian enclave was officially dissolved on January 1 , 2024 . <p> Faced with the prospect of rule by Azerbaijan , more than one hundred thousand people , almost all of Nagorno-Karabakh 's population , fled to Armenia in one week . <p> Baku plans to " reintegrate " the region and its remaining population into Azerbaijan , promising economic development . <p> Sahel Region ( Mali , Niger , Burkina Faso ) : <p> The conflict involves coups and insurgencies with jihadist groups , significantly impacting the West African region . <p> These groups perpetrate recurrent abuses and escalating attacks against civilians that likely amount to war crimes and crimes against humanity . <p> According to the Armed Conflict Location and Event Data Project ( ACLED ) , over 12,000 people , most of whom were civilians , were killed in 2023 . <p> At least 2.8 million people are internally displaced in the region , including more than 2.1 million in Burkina Faso alone . Violence has also taken place between rival ethnic militias and community-based self-defense groups resulting in reprisal attacks and countless abuses . <p> Haiti : <p> Across the Atlantic , Haiti has been rocked by gang violence . Although not a conventional war , the severity of gang violence and the potential for international intervention make this situation critical . <p> Gang attacks , extrajudicial killings , kidnappings , and gender-based violence have become part of the daily lives of Haitians , forcing locals to flee their homes . <p> Besides gangs , the activities of vigilante groups result in hundreds of lynchings . More than 165,000 people are internally displaced in Haiti due to gang violence , hindering aid efforts by the International Organization for Migration ( IOM ) . <p> The country is facing additional pressure due to severe floods caused by torrential rains . <p> Mexico : <p> The Mexican drug war is an ongoing asymmetric armed conflict between the Mexican government and various drug trafficking syndicates . <p> The cartels and the drug trade fuel rampant corruption and violence in Mexico , contributing to tens of thousands of homicides in the country each year . 
@@119470117 <p> New Cold War In South Asia As The BRICS Rise -- OpEdPosted on December 30th , 2024 <h> By Darini Rajasingham-Senanayake Courtesy Eurasia Review <p> There will be no honeymoon for the newly minted National People 's Power ( NPP ) Government that got a massive people 's mandate for debt justice . <p> The storm blowing from Washington DC across the Indian Ocean World -- targeting China to the East , Iran to the West , and now , India at the centre -- is growing and expanding . So too , the US led NATO sanctions regime is expanding and impacting many countries . These include Sri Lanka , which is caught in the crosshairs of hybrid economic war on the rise of BRICS and China 's Belt and Road Initiative . <p> Seemingly unable to re-negotiate International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) , and odious debt Eurobond Exchange agreements drafted by the previous Ranil Rajapakse regime that it had accused of corruption , the new NPP government this month signed Sri Lanka up to being pumped and dumped " once again into a second staged Sovereign Default . <p> Sri Lanka , South Asia 's richest country by the metric that matters -- Purchasing Power Parity ( PPP ) GDP per capita -- was declared ' bankrupt ' and in Default in March 2022 amid distracting US National Endowment for Democracy ( NED ) funded Araglaya protests -- simply due to a purported lack of exorbitantly privileged US dollars ! <p> While the IMF engineered Bond Exchange has got stock markets on a Christmas high with seasonal good news hype in the corporate media echo chamber with Fitch and Moody 's upgrades despite significant deflation , the pain would soon set in as Sri Lanka commenced Odious debt payments to predatory creditors in 2025 and the EPF pension funds whittle down . <p> A new round of social unrest and protests at high taxes and the IMF 's bitter austerity measures to shrink the economy and pay predatory International Sovereign bond holders with a fire sale of national assets are on the cards , and very likely a second staged Default curtsey the IMF 's Extended Fund Facility . <h> US Sanctions and Regime Change Aragalayas in South Asia <p> Simultaneously , shades of an increasingly hot , new regional Cold War are apparent across South Asia and the Indian Ocean world . There were two regime change operations in Pakistan and Sri Lanka in 2022 amid Victoria Nurland inspired colour revolution ' or Arab Spring Araglaya ' protests " . <p> This year , 2024 , saw regime change in Bangladesh and just a few weeks ago members of the ruling BJP in India accused the US of targeting Prime Minister Modi 's government for regime change . The SOROS foundation and the NED funded NGO complex were identified as part of local-global networks that were implicated in tarnishing the Modi brand . <p> Meanwhile , development projects that promised needed foreign investment in Sri Lanka have been thrown into disarray by the United States expanding sanctions regime on the BRICS leaders , this time on Russian firms , as well as court action against the Indian conglomerate , Adani . <p> Two months ago , India 's Shaurya Aeronautics Pvt Ltd and Russia 's Airports of Regions Management Company 's plans for joint development of the Chinese built Mattala International Airport in southeast Sri Lanka were put on hold due to US sanctions. i <p> The U.S. Department of the Treasury had sanctioned India-based Shaurya Aeronautics Private Limited , among 275 individuals and entities involved in supplying Russia with advanced technology and equipment . The airport near the Hambantota Port is located near some of the world 's busiest trade , energy and submarine Data Cable routes . <p> Meanwhile a bribery case was filed in New York last month against the Adani conglomerate , which is a partner of BlackRock , that is in turn Sri Lanka 's largest private predatory International Sovereign Bond ( ISB ) creditor . Although China is routinely blamed in the global corporate media echo chamber for debt trap lending , analysis of Sri Lanka 's loan profile clearly show that ISBs are the cause of the geostrategic island 's first ever Sovereign Default in March 2022 . <p> Adani was set to develop the Western Terminal of the Colombo port in partnership with local conglomerate John Keells holdings with significant US Development Finance Corporation ( DFC ) funding . This was before US authorities had accused Adani of bribery in Andhra Pradesh and filed a court case in New York . <p> Adani , said to be Asia 's richest man is seen to be personally close to Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Adani which partners with BlackRock , Sri Lanka 's biggest private creditor had already got a sweetheart deal ex-ante the Odious debt restructure Bond Exchange agreements signed this month -- for various ' green energy ' projects ! <h> Sanctions and Visits <p> As sanctions bit , US Assistant Secretary of State , Donald Lu visited India , Sri Lanka and Nepal earlier this month . Lu met government , the NGO complex and other civil society members to discuss ' capacity building ' assistance , presumably , for more institutional capture . <p> The Central Bank of Sri Lanka has been already effectively privatized to serve the interests of predatory ISBs rather than citizens via International Monetary Fund ' reforms ' . <p> US moves against Indian firms have likely given Sri Lanka Foreign Minister Vijitha Herath a big headache , much like the pending debt trap International Sovereign bond debt restructure agreements that are being forced on the new government in Colombo by the IMF and Lazard and Clifford Chance that represent ISBs that have debt trapped the county in collusion with local politicians and business cronies . <p> Will Mr. Herath be able to persuade Lu to hold back US sanctions and the ISB vulture funds to make an exception for debt trapped Sri Lanka , and enable the Mattala International Airport and Colombo port west terminal projects to proceed with Indian and Russian investment ? <p> A USDFC , which had agreed to lend $500 million to Adani 's port development in Sri Lanka said it was conducting due diligence on the project . <h> Targeting Indian Projects and Sri Lanka 's BRICS application <p> Indian firms are being targeted by Washington , which has long sought access to geostrategic Sri Lanka 's energy , transport , telecom infrastructure . This was evident in the US Millennium Challenge Corporation ( MCC ) Compact , rejected by Sri Lanka back in 2019 . At the time there were fears of the US establishing military bases under the Status of Forces Agreement ( SOFA ) , in the geostrategic island nation . <p> The Colombo harbour is South Asia 's busiest port but that development is also now on hold . Of course , the US promise to fund Adani 's port development to the tune of over USD 500 million was in any case a tall order ! The sum was much more than the aborted MCC project , after which the mysterious ISIS-claimed Easter Sunday hybrid war attacks targeted tourist hotels and churches , crashing economy and society . The IS-claimed attacks were clearly designed to set off a ' cascade of violence " in the multi-religious island nation . <p> The Mattala International Airport in Hambantota , initially built by the Chinese was perceived to be a White Elephant ' development project but is actually located near one of the world 's busiest maritime trade , energy and submarine Date Cable routes in the world . The Indian Shaurya Aeronautics plan to develop the airport would bring needed foreign investment and showcase collaboration among the big three Asian powers- China , India and Russia but is now on ice due to US sanctions . <p> Sri Lanka , clearly caught in the crosshairs of big power rivalry , had formally submitted an application to join BRICS and the New Development Bank at the meeting in Kazan in October where President Putin hosted China 's President Xi and Indian Premier Modi along with other Global South leaders . The new government in Colombo would be hoping to leverage regional growth and support from the Global South in the Asian 21stCentury " . <p> However , no senior Minister from Sri Lanka attended the meeting in Kazan where de-dollarization and trading in national currencies was a hot topic -- an opportunity missed in deference to Washington ? Sri Lanka 's application to join the New Development Bank has been accepted but the BRICS application remains pending at this time . <h> A New Regional Cold War ? <p> A new Cold War is clearly ramping up across the Indian Ocean -- and not just on China . Having pushed Russia and China into ever close partnership Washington seems keen to ensure that India warmly embraces its erstwhile foe -- China and the BRICS . <p> India had defied US sanctions on Russia over the past two year and ramped up Rupee-Ruble trade and Russian oil and gas purchases , benefiting from Russia 's decoupling from Europe and the war in Ukraine , also given historically strong and deep relations with the Soviet Union during the Cold War ( 1945-1991 ) . <p> Was India rewarded with regime change in Bangladesh for defying US Sanctions and drawing nearer its neighbouring BRICS ? India was also embroiled in a Canadian Sikh spy murder mystery with Woke Diaspora identity political overtones also emanating from Washington . <p> More concerning for India and indeed the South Asia region as a whole is the latest regime change operation with the obligatory student protests directed via social media right under India 's nose in neighbouring Bangladesh , and the weaponization of Hindu-Muslim-Buddhist regional religious identity politics that has followed . <p> Departing President Joe Biden seems to have run out of patience with India . The G-20 afterglow in Delhi now seems like a prelude to the parting of ways between India and the West , as Delhi appears to pivot to BRICS . Or perhaps it 's just Biden 's farewell to South Asia and the world , which increasingly seems like : ' Apres moi le deluge ! ' <h> Debt Neocolonialism as a new Cold War takes Shape in South Asia <p> Will Sri Lanka caught in the IMF 's neocolonial debt and Eurobond bailout business be able to withstand US pressures as India has and turn its back on Indian and Russian investments ? <p> Will Colombo be asked to choose between Washington and New Delhi again ? During the previous Cold War , Delhi armed and trained the Liberation Tigers ( LTTE ) , against any possible US bases in its backyard as Colombo moved close to Washington under J.R . Jayawardena . This ensured that Sri Lanka 's so-called internal ethnic conflict ' which was really a regional Cold War proxy war , with India closely allied with the Soviet Union , would run for 30 years . <p> Geostrategic Sri Lanka 's ports and airports at the center of the Indian Ocean and a choke point of Submarine Data Cables are again of great interest to Washington 's neocons and the NATO war machine , which now aspires to Full Spectrum Dominance ( FSD ) -- over earth , air , sea and Cyber operations . <p> The targeting of energy and electricity systems as well as transport and telecom infrastructure in the South Asia region -- from MCC in Nepal in the north to IMF 's privatization push in Sri Lanka in the south may have much to do with the rush to setup Data Centers , as well as , control over trade and energy choke points as a new Cold War ramps up . <h> Cold War Redux : Regime Change and Debt Neocolonialism <p> Back in 2022 the Pakistan premier Imran Khan accused Donald Lu of running a regime change operation against him . Simultaneously , a soft regime change operation unfolded in Sri Lanka with the US National Endowment for Democracy ( NED ) funded and social media remote platforms directed Aragalaya ' protests ' . This was shortly after Victoria Nurland had visited Colombo . <p> The 2022 regime change in Colombo was masked , Arab Spring/ colour revolution style , with people 's protests against a no doubt unpopular regime , to ensure that Sri Lanka staged a smooth Sovereign Default into the waiting arms of the lender of last resorts- the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) . The new Washington backed President Ranil Wickramasinghe was installed to stage the default and deepen the Eurobond debt trap ex-poste . <p> Two years later , Imran Khan for his impudence in naming Donald Lu as the instigator of regime change in Pakistan in 2022 languishes in prison in Islamabad amid huge protests . Fate has been slightly kinder to Sri Lanka 's erstwhile president Gotabaya Rajapakse who was also ousted in the soft Aragalaya coup in 2022 . <p> Rajapakse remains a free man albeit an ex-American citizen barred from travel to the US . He was dispatched and humiliated amid the Woke Aragalaya protests directed via remote controlled social media platforms that rocked Colombo , after the dreaded Victoria Nurland 's visit in early 2022 to triggered the regime change . Nurland is widely credited with the Ukraine Maidan Square colour revolutions that enabled the rise of Zelinski to precipitate war with Russia . <p> Thus , South Asia 's only Upper Middle Income County ( MIC ) was declared bankrupt overnight and forced to stage a first ever Sovereign Default . This was as Lawfare unfolded once again in a New York Court when the shadowy , off-shore Hamilton Reserve Bank filed a case against Sri Lanka in 2022 for non-payment of a small amount of interest . <p> The HRB Lawfare triggered rapid local Rupee currency depreciation against the exorbitantly privileged US dollar in tandem with rating agency downgrades . <h> A quiet parting of Ways ? Weaponizing Diaspora Identity Politics <p> Regime change operations in Colombo and Islamabad in early 2022 notwithstanding , India , the South Asian regional hegemon , now grapples with yet another US instigated regime change operation right under her nose -- this time in Dhaka , Bangladesh . Deposed secular Prime Minister , Sheikh Hasina had sought refuge in Delhi given historic ties but religion/s have been again weaponized in Bangladesh . <p> Of course , the weaponiztion of religion/s , particularly , Buddhism and Islam , in South and South East Asia was a Cold War project to destabilize the region and counter God-less Communist and Socialist de-colonization , national liberation and independence movements in Asia . Yale University historian Eugene Ford 's book Cold War Monks : Buddhism and America 's Secret Strategy in Asia " is especially enlightening in this regard . <p> Is a quiet parting of ways unfolding at this time with India 's Adani and various BRICS partnerships being targeted by Washington ? The side show with Canada and India expelling diplomats , may well be a distraction from the far more serious issue of regime change in Bangladesh and its regional implications : Religious minorities ( Hindus , Buddhists and Christians ) , are now under threat from the same Saudi-funded Islamist Cat 's paw and handmaiden that the CIA with partner in crime Israel 's Mossad deploys around the world to destabilize countries and regions . Call it the ISIS , ISIL , Al Qaida , the Muslim Brotherhood , rebranded HTS in Syria or ISIS-K in Afghanistan , or whatever . <p> The recent regime change operation , weaponizing transnational networks and religious identity politics in Bangladesh that saw the ouster of Prime Minister Hasina a close ally of Delhi certainly put a spanner in the works in the West 's wooing of mother India -- with the Indian Diaspora in the west in tow : From Rishi Sunak to Kamala Harris who embodied the I-2 ( Israel-India ) partnership given her Indian name and Jewish husband , to all those Indian Diaspora CEOs of big US and EU corporations , it is increasingly clear that the Indian Diaspora in the Euro-American world and Australia had been weaponized and mobilized for the charm offensive to persuade India to fight a proxy war on China and crash the Asian 21st Century . That kite did not fly . <p> The I2U2 , or West Asia QUAD , comprising Israel , India , UAE and US , was designed to help ' normalize ' Israel 's occupation of Palestine via the Abraham Accords , and the current genocide in Gaza . But the U2- UAE and US part may be fraying at this time . <p> ISUS was also set up to cement the I-2 ( India-Israel ) alliance brokered as part of Washington 's Judeo-Christian-Hindu fundamentalist outreach via I2U2 ( India , Israel , UAE , US ) , with the Islamist Cat 's paw to destabilize South Asia -- old Cold War style when there was a proliferation of regional security groupings like SEATO . The new twist is the Indian Diaspora in the West . <p> Will developments before and during the BRICS summit in Kazan where China and India made relative peace , and the regime change in Bangladesh break the I2U2 partnership , or at least the I2 , India-Israel part ? <p> As winds of change blow in Washington come January when Donald Trump would be ensconced President of the United States , Donald Lu would be perhaps saying a fond farewell to South Asia on this trip to the region . <p> Dr Darini Rajasingham-Senanayake is a social and medical anthropologist with expertise in international development and political-economic analysis . She was a member of the International Steering Group of the North-South Institute project : Southern Perspectives on Reform of the International Aid Architecture " . <h> Leave a Reply <p> Disclaimer : The comments contained within this website are personal reflection only and do not necessarily reflect the views of the LankaWeb . LankaWeb.com offers the contents of this website without charge , but does not necessarily endorse the views and opinions expressed within . Neither the LankaWeb nor the individual authors of any material on this Web site accept responsibility for any loss or damage , however caused ( including through negligence ) , which you may directly or indirectly suffer arising out of your use of or reliance on information contained on or accessed through this Web site . All views and opinions presented in this article are solely those of the surfer and do not necessarily represent those of LankaWeb.com . <p> This entry was posted on Monday , December 30th , 2024 . You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 feed . You can skip to the end and leave a response . 
@@119488684 <p> The Standard Group Plc is a multi-media organization with investments in media platforms spanning newspaper print operations , television , radio broadcasting , digital and online services . The Standard Group is recognized as a leading multi-media house in Kenya with a key influence in matters of national and international interest . <h> ENTERPRISE <h> DIGGER CLASSIFIED <h> Xinhua 's top 10 world news events in 2024 <h> Loading Article ... <p> For the best experience , please enable JavaScript in your browser settings . <p> Chinese President Xi Jinping and foreign leaders arrive for the opening ceremony of the 2024 Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation ( FOCAC ) at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing , capital of China , September 5 , 2024 . Xinhua <p> The following are the top 10 world news events in the year of 2024 selected by Xinhua : <p> China 's head-of-state diplomacy opens new chapter <p> In 2024 , Chinese President Xi Jinping attended three major diplomatic events at home : the Conference Marking the 70th Anniversary of the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence , the China-Arab States Cooperation Forum , and the Beijing Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation . He made four important visits abroad -- to Europe , Central Asia , and Latin America , attended a series of multilateral summits , had in-depth strategic communication with other national leaders , and made personal efforts to reach out to peoples of other countries . China 's major-country diplomacy with Chinese characteristics , under the guidance of head-of-state diplomacy , has demonstrated a grand picture and a keen sense of responsibility amid profound global changes unseen in a century , leading the trend of the times toward peace , development , and win-win cooperation . <p> China 's Chang'e-6 retrieves world 's first lunar far-side samples <p> From May 3 to June 25 , the Chang'e-6 lunar probe completed a 53-day space journey , bringing back the world 's first samples from the far side of the Moon . On Dec. 17 , the Shenzhou-19 crew members completed a record-breaking nine-hour extravehicular activity . Over the past year , space programs in other countries have also made significant strides : U.S. company SpaceX 's Starship test ended with a remarkable ' chopstick ' booster catch , and Japan 's H3 rocket and Europe 's Ariane 6 rocket made their respective successful first launch . <p> Multiple European countries undergo political changes <p> In June , right and far-right wing parties secured more seats in the European Parliament elections , gaining traction amid public dissatisfaction with issues such as economy , people 's livelihood , and immigration . Under both internal and external pressures , the political landscapes of several European countries have shifted : France replaced three prime ministers in a row within one year ; the British Conservative Party suffered a crushing defeat in the parliamentary elections , allowing the Labour Party to return to power after 14 years ; following the collapse of the governing coalition , German Chancellor Olaf Scholz failed a vote of confidence in parliament . <p> Fed 's interest-rate cuts mark start of new easing cycle <p> On Sept. 18 , the Federal Reserve announced a significant cut in interest rates of 50 basis points , marking the start of a new easing cycle , which saw a further cut of 25 basis points in November and December respectively . In response , major central banks worldwide , notably the European Central Bank , adjusted their monetary policies . The Fed 's shift towards a looser monetary policy is expected to provide more liquidity to global markets , helping alleviate inflation and debt repayment pressures in some countries in the short term , but meanwhile bringing fresh uncertainties to the world economy . <p> On Oct. 8 and 9 , the 2024 Nobel Prizes in Physics and Chemistry were awarded to works in machine learning and protein structure prediction models respectively . Over the past year , artificial intelligence has become a key tool for scientific innovation . The Sora video-generation AI model has prompted a new wave of text-to-video creation , AI-powered devices have driven a revival in consumer electronics , and tech giants have doubled down on investments in AI chips . By pushing for the UN General Assembly 's unanimous adoption of a resolution to strengthen international cooperation in AI capacity building , China has contributed significant insights and impetus to global AI development and governance . <p> Greater BRICS Cooperation accelerates rise of Global South <p> The 16th BRICS Summit , held in Russia on Oct. 22-24 , initiated the greater BRICS cooperation . The Global South , with China as a key member , is standing out with a strong momentum . Over the past year , Xi has called for more open and inclusive Global South cooperation and unveiled eight measures to enhance Global South cooperation . He has also launched the " five cooperation frameworks " with Arab nations , proposed 10 partnership actions for modernization to deepen China-Africa cooperation , and outlined eight actions to support global development . These endeavors have highlighted China 's unwavering commitment to promoting unity and self-reliance among Global South countries . <p> Protracted Ukraine crisis heightens Russia-West tensions <p> On Nov. 19 , Ukraine fired U.S.-made missiles for the first time into Russian territory . On the same day , Russia revised its nuclear deterrence policy , issuing a stark warning to the West . Over the past year , Ukrainian forces have raided Russian soil and Russian forces have made advances in eastern Ukraine . Long-range weapons and cluster bombs have been used , as the United States and other Western nations have continued to provide Ukraine with military aid . NATO conducted its largest military exercise since the Cold War and approved the accession of Sweden as its member , resulting in an increasingly strained relationship with Russia . <p> On Dec. 4 , " Spring Festival , social practices of the Chinese people in celebration of traditional new year " was inscribed on the UNESCO Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity . Over the past year , the Spring Festival and the Beijing Central Axis were both recognized as UNESCO heritages , the China-proposed International Day for Dialogue among Civilizations has obtained worldwide support , the surge of " China Travel " fueled by visa-free policies has showcased the growing appeal of Chinese culture , and action game " Black Myth : Wukong " has captivated gamers worldwide . China 's cultural appeal on the global stage continues to grow , and the Global Civilization Initiative is gaining increasing support across the globe . <p> Syrian opposition forces overthrow al-Assad government <p> On Dec. 8 , Syrian militant groups led by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , launched a swift offensive to seize Damascus . The toppling of Bashar al-Assad 's government marked a significant turning point in Syria 's 13-year civil war . Israel then occupied Syrian-controlled areas of the Golan Heights and conducted large-scale airstrikes on Syrian military targets . The drastic changes in Syria 's political landscape have intensified geopolitical rivalry among regional and global powers , adding further uncertainties to the future of the Middle East . <p> Palestine-Israel conflict triggers rounds of regional escalations <p> As of Dec. 16 , Israeli military operations in Gaza have killed over 45,000 people in Palestine and injured more than 100,000 others . The 14-month-old conflict has devastated Gaza , leaving some 2 million residents grappling with a relentless blockade and incessant bombardment in a humanitarian crisis that continues to worsen . Meanwhile , Israel-Lebanon , Israel-Iran , and Red Sea tensions have also been heightening . Supplying weapons to Israel , the United States was bent on blocking UN Security Council resolutions calling for a Gaza ceasefire , drawing widespread condemnation from the international community . 
