@@118337822 <h> " During these difficult times that our Palestinian cities are going through , especially in the Gaza Strip , it is difficult to show any signs of joy and happiness , " said an Orthodox priest . <p> By REUTERS DECEMBER 1 , 2024 13:08 Updated : DECEMBER 1 , 2024 16:29 <p> A drone view of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Bethlehem in the West Bank , November 25 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/YOSRI ALJAMAL ) <p> For a second year running , there is no Christmas cheer in Bethlehem , with tourists shunning the Palestinian city and many residents seeking a way out as the Gaza war grinds on . <p> Bethlehem 's Manger Square in front of the Church of the Nativity is largely deserted , and souvenir shops are shuttered . <p> Once again , there are no plans to put up the traditional light-festooned Christmas Tree in the ancient settlement that is revered by Christians as the birthplace of Jesus and now sits on the West Bank . <p> " During these difficult times that our Palestinian cities are going through , especially in the Gaza Strip , it is difficult to show any signs of joy and happiness , " said Issa Thaljieh , an Orthodox priest who ministers at the Nativity Church . <p> Adding to the gloom , many local Christian families are also looking to escape , demoralized by both the tourist slump that has ravaged their economy and the constant threat of violence hovering over the territory northeast of Gaza . A drone view of the Church of the Nativity , in Bethlehem in the West Bank , November 25 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/YOSRI ALJAMAL ) <p> " The emigration out of Bethlehem is increasing daily and monthly , and ... this has a negative impact on the city , " Thaljieh said . <p> Christian communities have been in decline across the Middle East for generations , and the West Bank is no exception . <p> In the last year of British rule over the region in 1947 , some 85% of Bethlehem 's population were Christian . As of a 2017 census , the overall population of Bethlehem was 215,514 , with only 23,000 Christians among them . That puts the percentage of Christians in Bethlehem in 2017 at around 10% . <p> Locals say the rate of departure has been gathering steam in recent months in the cradle of Christianity , with the economic lifeblood of the city no longer flowing and the war preventing freedom of movement around the territory . <p> Bethlehem resident Alaa Afteem , who runs a falafel restaurant , said one of his cousins had recently moved to Australia . <p> " Due to the bad living conditions and bad financial conditions , people have started looking for better opportunities for their children , for better education , for a better future , " he told Reuters . <h> ' There is no security ' <p> Since the 1967 war between Israel and neighboring Arab countries , Israel has the West Bank , which Palestinians want as the core of a future independent state . <p> Israel has built Jewish settlements across the territory . Israel disputes this , citing historical and biblical ties to the land . Several of its ministers live in settlements and favor their expansion . <p> Violence has surged across the hilly land since the start of the Hamas-Israel war in Gaza in October last year . <p> Difficult at the best of times , travel between West Bank cities has become increasingly fraught . <p> " There is no security if you are commuting between districts within the West Bank , like between Bethlehem , Ramallah , Jericho , Hebron , " Afteem said . <p> Munther Isaac , a pastor at Bethlehem 's Lutheran Church , says local Muslim families have also been emigrating , squeezed by both financial problems and broader worries about the future . <p> " ( There is ) the fear that this war might extend to areas in the West Bank , especially after the arming of the settlers and the announcement of the possible annexation of the West Bank , " he said . <p> The West Bank has been transformed by the rapid growth of Jewish settlements over the past two years , with strident settlers pushing to impose Israeli sovereignty on the area . <p> National Security Minister Itamar Ben-Gvir said on Twitter/X in October that since the start of the Gaza conflict , more than 120,000 firearms had been distributed to Israeli settlers to protect themselves . <p> In Isaac 's church , the nativity scene has a figure of the baby Jesus lying in a pile of rubble . " We feel that this war will never end , " he said . 
@@118337833 <h> The series will focus on five people who found themselves fighting for their lives against a heavily armed enemy -- a fight they never anticipated -- and will tell stories of their tragedy and heroism . <p> A five-part series titled " Red Alert " is being developed about the Hamas terror attack against Israel on October 7 , 2023 . This project is a collaboration between the Israeli television channel Keshet 12 and the global content distributor Keshet International . <p> They have partnered with acclaimed producer Lawrence Bender , known for his work on " Pulp Fiction " and " Inglourious Basterds , " along with the Israeli company Green Productions , recognized for projects like " Golda " and " Cinema Sabaya . " Together , they aim to bring this significant story to life . <p> Other funding partners include the Jewish National Fund USA , the Israel Entertainment Fund , and Jordana Reuben Yechiel . <p> More than 1,200 people were murdered on that day in the Gaza border region , and about 250 were taken hostage , 101 of whom are still being held by Hamas in Gaza . <p> Red Alert is the term for a warning when missiles are fired , and the attack began that day with a heavy barrage of missiles that blanketed the area . The series will focus on five people who found themselves fighting for their lives against a heavily armed enemy -- a fight they never anticipated -- and will tell stories of their tragedy and heroism . <p> Red Alert , which will be filmed in spring 2025 , is being created , written , and directed by Lior Chefetz , who made the Yom Kippur War drama The Stronghold , which was both a movie and a television series . It will be co-created by Ruth Efroni and co-written by Kineret Peled and Idan Hubel . The dialogue will be in Hebrew , Arabic , and English , and the series is tentatively set to premiere on the second anniversary of the attack in October 2025 . The Nova Massacre Scene ( credit : Arie Leib Abrams/Flash90 ) <h> ' An intense emotional journey ' <p> Karni Ziv , the head of drama and comedy for Keshet 12 , said , " For a while , there seemed to be no reasonable dramatic approach to retell such a profound event . We needed time and perspective to find the right project and the right creative partners to help us tell this story in the right way . In Red Alert , the human drama transcends the war , which sometimes serves as background and sometimes as the story itself , to deliver a message of hope and solidarity . " <p> Bender , whose company is Bender Brown Productions and whose films have been nominated for 36 Oscars and won nine , said , " Red Alert will embark on an intense and emotional journey that explores the indomitable human spirit . This international action drama will showcase the unwavering resolve of real people who confront unimaginable challenges to create a compelling viewing experience . " 
@@118339428 <h> Trump and Boulos said the Republican president-elect would bring peace to the Middle East , but neither has publicly offered concrete details on Trump 's plans for the region . <p> President-elect Donald Trump on Sunday named Massad Boulos , a Lebanese American businessman who is the father-in-law of Trump 's daughter Tiffany , as a senior adviser on Arab and Middle Eastern affairs . <p> Boulos arranged Trump campaign efforts to engage the Arab American community in Michigan , organizing dozens of meetings in areas with large Arab American populations angered by Democratic President Joe Biden 's backing of Israel 's offensives in Gaza and Lebanon . Trump won the majority Arab American city of Dearborn Heights on his way to sweeping Michigan and other swing states . <p> " He has been a longtime proponent of Republican and Conservative values , an asset to my Campaign , and was instrumental in building tremendous new coalitions with the Arab American Community , " Trump said in a post on Truth Social . <p> Trump and Boulos said the Republican president-elect would bring peace to the Middle East , but neither has publicly offered concrete details on Trump 's plans for the region . <p> Boulos has previously sought office in Lebanon and has long-standing ties to political figures in the country . Other Trump picks for key national security positions are staunch supporters of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , a Trump ally . <p> Mike Huckabee , Trump 's pick for ambassador to Israel , has consistently rejected a Palestinian state in territories seized by Israel . He has claimed " there really is n't such a thing " as Palestinians , in referring to the descendants of people who lived in Palestine before the establishment of Israel . <p> Trump 's pick for defense secretary , Pete Hegseth , advocated for rebuilding a biblical Jewish temple on the site of Al-Aqsa Mosque , one of Islam 's holiest sites . <p> Boulos helped capitalize on dissension within the Democratic base over support for the Israeli offensive in Gaza , where more than 44,000 people have died since Hamas ' attacks on Oct. 7 , 2023 , according to health officials in the Hamas-run territory who do n't separate civilians and fighters in their totals . <p> Trump won Michigan by just over 10,000 votes in 2016 and Biden retook the state for the Democrats in 2020 by roughly 154,000 votes . Trump carried Michigan in November over Vice President Kamala Harris , the Democratic nominee , with 49.7% of the vote . <p> " Massad is a dealmaker , and an unwavering supporter of PEACE in the Middle East , " Trump said on Truth Social . <p> Trump , who has long installed family members and their relatives in key positions , is signaling that he will run his second administration the same way . On Saturday , he announced that he intends to nominate real estate developer Charles Kushner , father of Trump 's son-in-law Jared Kushner , to serve as ambassador to France . 
@@118343439 <h> The president-elect called his pick an " unwavering supporter of PEACE in the Middle East . " <p> President-elect Donald Trump has opted to keep it in the family again with some of his latest administrative picks-- this time , with the senior adviser on Arab and Middle Eastern affairs . <p> Trump has appointed Lebanon billionaire Massad Boulos to take on the role . His son , Michael , is married to Tiffany Trump , the president 's youngest daughter . <p> " Massad is an accomplished lawyer and a highly respected leader in the business world , with extensive experience on the International scene , " Trump wrote on his Truth Social account . " He has been a longtime proponent of Republican and Conservative values , an asset to my Campaign , and was instrumental in building tremendous new coalitions with the Arab American Community . " <p> He also called Boulos an " unwavering supporter of PEACE in the Middle East . " <p> Trump 's youngest daughter married Boulos ' son , Michael , in 2022 , with the president-elect even walking her down the aisle . The couple is expecting their first child together . <p> Trump has also named Charles Kushner as the U.S. ambassador to France . Charles Kushner is the father of Jared Kushner , Trump 's son-in-law , who is married to Ivanka Trump . Trump had pardoned Charles Kushner in 2020 after he was convicted on federal charges . <p> MILWAUKEE , WISCONSIN - JULY 16 : Tiffany Trump , daughter of former U.S. President Donald Trump , walks with her husband Michael Boulos ( L ) on the second day of the Republican National Convention at the Fiserv Forum on July 16 , 2024 in Milwaukee , Wisconsin . Delegates , politicians , and the Republican faithful are in Milwaukee for the annual convention , concluding with former President Donald Trump accepting his party 's presidential nomination . The RNC takes place from July 15-18 . ( Photo by Andrew Harnik/Getty Images ) Andrew Harnik/Getty Images <p> In the role as senior adviser on Arab and Middle Eastern affairs , Boulos may play a big part in the war Gaza , with the United States offering support to Israel under Biden 's administration . 
@@118344225 <h> Share on Social Media <p> The Biden White House has spoken to the family of American hostage Edan Alexander , who was taken captive along with 253 others during the Oct. 7 , 2023 , attacks in Israel , said U.S. National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan on " Face the Nation " Sunday . " I do think that Hamas is feeling the pressure . They 're feeling the pressure because one of their main partners in crime here , Hezbollah , has now cut a ceasefire deal , " he explained . <p> " They 're feeling the pressure , of course , because their top leader , Sinwar , has been killed . So , they may be looking anew at the possibility of getting a ceasefire and hostage deal , " Sullivan added . A 13-part ceasefire between Hezbollah and Israel was announced last week . <p> Sullivan added that the Biden administration is " working actively with all of the key players in the region , including Israel and Turkey and Qatar and Egypt , " to bring to fruition a ceasefire between Israel and Hamas -- one that will hopefully return the remaining hostages home and also end the war in the region . <p> President Biden spoke with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu the same day the Hezbollah ceasefire was announced , Sullivan continued , " and Prime Minister Netanyahu told him he agreed , the time is right " for a similar agreement with Hamas . <p> On Oct. 25 , the New York Times reported " dozens " of those taken captive in 2023 are still in Gaza . Of those , at least 60 are believed to be alive . Israeli authorities also believe the bodies of approximately 35 hostages who have died are still in Gaza as well . Of the total number of hostages , 12 people hold U.S. citizenship . <p> Hamas released a video of Alexander Saturday . The video is not dated , but appears to have been recorded sometime this week . In the video , Alexander asks President-elect Trump to assist in his rescue and the rescue of the remaining hostages . <p> Alexander 's mother Yael told NBC News , " To get this video , it 's a huge relief for me to see that he 's still strong . It was amazing . To see him speaking , crying , just to see him -- like , I 'm still shaking . He cried a lot in this video . It was very tough to see Edan like this . It was real . It was tough . " <p> The 20-year-old Alexander grew up in New Jersey and volunteered to serve in Israel 's military . He was stationed outside Gaza when he was taken hostage . <p> The Biden administration is also gravely concerned about the deteriorating humanitarian crisis in Gaza , where the city 's remaining citizens are starving to death . " The humanitarian situation in Gaza is a crisis . You have too many people who are suffering from shortages of food , water , medicine , access to sanitation . Innocent people who deserve a measure of peace and deserve access to all of those lifesaving supplies in abundance , " Sullivan explained . <p> He added that a major problem for the city right now is that while aid is moving into Gaza , it 's proven difficult to allocate it through the appropriate channels once inside the city . " The UN , in fact , said it was suspending movement from certain areas of Gaza because of concerns about looting . These are all things that would be helped if there were a ceasefire in place , " Sullivan added . <p> In September , the Norwegian Refugee Council published a press release co-signed by 15 aid organizations , who claimed that up to 83% of aid intended for Gaza could not enter the city . " While Israeli military attacks on Gaza intensify , lifesaving food , medicine , medical supplies , fuel , and tents have been systematically blocked from entering for almost a year , " the organizations wrote . <p> The decrease in aid means that people can count on one meal every other day , the organizations also stated . Additionally , 65% of insulin needed is not available , half the blood supply Gaza needs can not be accessed , and at least one million women can not access hygienic items they need . 
@@118344729 <p> Marrakech Film Festival Director Melita Toscan du Plantier has been attracting the biggest names in Hollywood and beyond to the event which showcases rising Moroccan directors . <p> Getty Images <p> From Jacob Elordi 's new bearded look to Sean Penn 's red carpet debut with girlfriend Valeria Nicov , this year 's Marrakech Film Festival has been making headlines in mainstream media like it never did before . Yet , the event has existed for 21 years . <p> For over two decades , the festival has indeed played a pivotal role in fostering a new generation of filmmakers from the Arab world , especially Morocco , fueled by the ambition of Marrakech Film Festival director Melita Toscan du Plantier , a Paris-based producer , cinephile and straight shooter . The Marrakech adventure kicked off in 2001 , when her late husband , Daniel Toscan du Plantier , an influential French producer , was asked by Morocco 's King Mohammed VI to help create the film festival . A year later , HRH Prince Moulay Rachid took over as president of the festival and its foundation , and when Daniel Toscan du Plantier died abruptly in 2003 , Melita took the reins . <h> Related Stories <p> Today , Melita Toscan du Plantier , who lives and breathes Marrakech Film Festival all year around , has succeeded in establishing the event as a significant international film festival rather than a mere red-carpet event in a fiercely competitive environment . Through her wide-ranging friendships , she 's managed to bring onto the festival some of the world 's most prestigious filmmakers and talent -- from Martin Scorsese to Robert de Niro and Agnes Varda -- to shine a spotlight on emerging Arab directors . <h> Popular on Variety <p> Toscan du Plantier has this year scored the biggest coup of her career at Marrakech fest , enlisting Luca Guadagnino as president of a jury comprising Jacob Elordi , Andrew Garfield , Patricia Arquette and Ali Abbasi , among others . The roster of masterclasses is equally impressive , with Justin Kurzel ( whose movie " The Order " opened the festival ) , David Cronenberg , Sean Penn , Justine Triet , Tim Burton , Alfonso Cuaron , Todd Haynes and Walter Salles , among others . <p> " I just read somewhere that I organize this festival like the wedding of my child , and I think that description nails it , " says Toscan du Plantier on day 2 of the festival . Always alert in spite of having slept three hours for five consecutive days ( from what she says ) , she admits being " obsessively perfectionist " during a quick conversation interrupted by a dozen calls and text messages revealing the extent of her involvement in every logistical aspect of the festival and caretaking for guests ( she may even know what they ate for breakfast ) . <p> A week ago , during an interview at her Paris-based office ( which was entirely decorated by her staff for her birthday ) , Toscan du Plantier said the festival 's emphasis on mentorship has translated into real success for emerging filmmakers , citing Ismae El Moudir whose movie " The Mother Of All Lies " made history last year as the first Moroccan film to win the festival 's top prize , the ? toile D'Or , from a jury presided over by Jessica Chastain . " The Mother of All Lies , " which opened at Un Certain Regard at Cannes , went on to represent Morocco in the international feature race at the Oscars . She also cited Sofia Alaoui whose film " Animalia " played at Sundance , as well as Maryam Touzani ( " Adam , " " The Blue Caftan " ) , Yasmine Benkiran ( " Reines " ) , Meryem Benm'barek ( " Sophia " ) , Alaa Eddine Aljem ( " Le miracle du saint Inconnu " ) , Isma ? l El Iraki ( Zanka Contact ) , Kamal Lazraq ( Les Meutes ) and Sa ? d Hamich whose film " La mer au loin " plays in competition this year . <p> " It 's a new generation that 's making a name for itself at the world 's biggest film festivals , and the majority of these newcomers are women , which is historic for Moroccan cinema , which has never had so many female directors , " said Toscan du Plantier . El Moudir 's film , for instance , was discovered by the director of the Sydney Film Festival at the Atlas Workshops , Marrakech 's industry sidebar , before it even played at Cannes , and programmed it at his festival in Sydney where it won best film . <p> " When my husband and I started the festival the first year , there were four Moroccan films a year . Today , there are about 35 of them , " she said . " Moroccan cinema has grown enormously over the years , and is highlighted by the Marrakech Festival . " <p> The fest has also contributed to giving Marrakech audiences " a taste for auteur films that are seldom distributed in Morocco " where " only big films that are either American , Egyptian or Bollywood films are released in theaters , " argues Toscan du Plantier . <p> The festival showcases films " from all over the world , from Japan , Korea , Poland , Brazil , etc. and all these films that are often socially minded movies , too , " she said , adding that she likes the idea that people " who do n't travel or travel very little , have this opportunity to see the world through these movies . " <p> Referring to the fast-expanding industry sidebar , the Atlas Workshops , overseen by the festival 's artistic director , Remi Bonhomme , Toscan du Plantier said it 's become a " key platform for a new generation of Moroccan filmmakers and producers who are making strides . " <p> She and Bonhomme form a dynamic duo surrounded by a team of fairly young people from different parts of the world . " In the office , we have people from Lebanon , Jordan , Tunisia and Morocco , among other places , and they come here to work with us on the artistic side , and we like the idea of transmission , " said the festival director , who started her career in the industry at the French promotion org Unifrance , where she met her husband Daniel , who was then its president . <p> The pedigree of talent she brought to Marrakech this year makes her " proud " on a personal level , because it took an infinite amount of work , but " above all , it 's about mentorship because directors who present their movies here know that their work will be seen by talent and filmmakers they admire . " <p> Moroccan film students , too , " will be able to exchange ideas with the world 's greatest directors and without the Marrakech Festival , they might never have had this experience , " she said . <p> At major film festivals such as Cannes or Venice , masterclasses are n't open to the public , but at Marrakech anyone can attend for free , as long as they 've registered online . The crowd is made up of film students , locals , journalists from national and international outlets , as well as talent . " The year we had Robert de Niro , everyone was in the room , including Guillermo del Toro , Tahar Rahim , Julian Schnabel and Gilles Lellouche ! " she reminisced . <p> It 's her late husband , she said , who was her mentor and " gave her a taste for directors . " No wonder why Guadagnino referred to her as the " godmother of filmmakers " in his speech at the opening ceremony of the festival . <p> " I know a lot of international actors , but it 's the directors I 'm passionate about and I think they can feel my passion . They know I 'm sincere , " she said . " I 'm much more enthused by the idea of having dinner with Martin Scorsese , Alfonso Cuaron or Walter Salles or Justin Kurzel and talk about movies for hours than anything else . " <p> Penn , who received a tribute on Saturday night ( the first in many years ) , will give a rare masterclass at the festival . " He 's very reserved and shy and prefers to talk about humanitarian causes he cares about , for instance in Haiti and Ukraine , rather than talking about himself . " <p> " The idea of mentorship , of exchanging with young film lovers and students is what appealed to them , " she said , referring to Penn and Todd Haynes , among others . " Sean really wants to meet young people and he was eager to meet Ismae El Moudir because he loved her movie ' The Mother of All Lies ' and was impressed by her talent . ' Todd also said right away , I really want to come and talk to young students . " <p> " At a lot of festivals , people who come are a bit jaded , but that 's not the case here . Moroccans know that being able to listen to great directors discuss their work , their point of view on the world , is a gift . These artists come here to give . It 's very generous of them because they do n't get paid to do it , " Toscan du Plantier noted . This year , she was able to get Garfield through Guadagnino , because the pair just worked together on the thriller " After The Hunt . " She then lured Elordi after meeting in Australia on the shoot of " The Narrow Road to the Deep North , " a miniseries directed by Kurzel , a longtime friend of Toscan du Plantier . Del Toro , another friend of the festival who just directed Elordi in " Frankenstein , " also helped enticing the actor . <p> " To get certain personalities , I pass on messages from others who have already been here , from ambassadors like Martin Scorsese , who is our godfather , who has been here seven times , " said Toscan du Plantier . " Sometimes , he can help me contact someone or put in a good word about the Marrakech Festival . And the same is happening with Guillermo Del Toro and Justin Kurzel , or Luca Guadagnino . " <p> Ultimately , the festival also has played a role in bringing people together at a time of geo-political turmoils , going back to its inaugural edition which took place in the aftermath of the terror attacks of 9/11 . <p> " Morocco is a land of exchange , a welcoming land . Back in 2001 , when we started the festival after the terrorist attacks , it was great to see all these nationalities , all these religions together on Muslim soil , 15 days after the attacks claimed by extremists , " she said . " But that at the time , His Majesty the King , Mohamed VI wanted to maintain the festival that year , despite everything , and to welcome all the people who dared to come , because many people were even afraid to take the plane . " <p> Ultimately , " people from all over the world came to talk about culture and cinema , and it was , I must admit , quite a magical atmosphere , " she said . <p> Last year , was also a particular edition as it unfolded just a little over a month following the Oct. 7th massacre , as the war in Gaza was raging . <p> " We were going through a period when all we talked about was division , and at the festival , all we talked about was uniting people , bringing them together through cinema . So it was complicated , and at the same time , it was powerful , " she said , also praising HRH Prince Moulay Rachid for his involvement and support for the festival . <p> This year is no less challenging , with ongoing wars in the Middle East and beyond , but that did n't prevent the festival from pulling together guests from across the globe . <p> " We 've really got all five continents together : Asia , Oceania , America , Europe and Africa , " she says . " Seeing all these international personalities in Marrakech is quite wonderful ! " 
@@118365225 <p> The cease-fire between Israel and Hezbollah brokered by President Joe Biden 's envoy Amos Hochstein is an important achievement . It reflects the lessons that the two of us have learned in a lifetime of diplomacy and statecraft -- and those lessons can be applied to Gaza and the broader Middle East by the Biden administration in its remaining days and by the incoming Trump administration . <p> The first lesson is the crucial importance of backing diplomacy with decisive military power and accurate intelligence in order to secure an achievable political objective . As the United States painfully learned in the Iraq War and in Afghanistan , the use of military force divorced from an achievable political outcome is doomed to fail . Force is a tool , not an end in itself . <p> Israel 's use of force set the stage for diplomacy by dramatically weakening Hezbollah . After accepting Hezbollah 's imposition of a limited war for nearly a year , the Israel Defense Forces and Mossad acted decisively to decapitate Hezbollah 's leadership ; disrupt its command , control , and communications ; destroy 80 percent of its rocket forces ; and dismantle its weapons stocks and infrastructure -- below- and aboveground -- that it had built up along Israel 's borders . Israel also retaliated against Iran after its October 1 ballistic-missile attack on Israel , destroying Iran 's strategic air and missile defense and 90 percent of its **28;2797;TOOLONG capability . In doing so , it reminded us once again of Henry Kissinger 's maxim that you can achieve at the negotiating table only what you have won on the battlefield . <p> A related lesson of good statecraft is recognizing opportunities and moving quickly to act on them . Timing matters , and the Biden administration recognized that Israel 's military achievements had created an opening to mediate a cease-fire between Israel and Hezbollah , working through the Lebanese government . The administration also believed that Iran recognized that Hezbollah 's weakness made it vulnerable to its adversaries in Lebanon and that Iran , not wanting to lose the crown jewel of its Axis of Resistance , would want to end the war . <p> Diplomacy also requires good timing . The conflict was not ripe for settlement until Hezbollah and Iran had been sufficiently weakened by Israel 's attacks . Only then was Hezbollah willing to abandon its insistence that ending its missile and drone attacks against Israel would first require a permanent cease-fire in Gaza . <p> Additionally , negotiations worked because Israel had clear , limited , and achievable political objectives . The Israelis understood that they could not eliminate Hezbollah ; instead , they aimed to ensure that Hezbollah could have no forces south of the Litani River and could not easily rearm there . Both of these steps had been mandated by UN Security Council Resolution 1701 in 2006 -- but its terms were never enforced , and Hezbollah violated its terms from day one . Hochstein used Israel 's military achievements and the Lebanese government 's desire to reestablish sovereignty over its territory to create a far more serious approach to implementation : As many as 10,000 Lebanese soldiers will be deployed to the border , while the U.S. , France , and others will help improve the capabilities of the Lebanese army . The U.S. will also provide intelligence to monitor implementation of the agreement , and will chair the committee through which any violation will be immediately addressed . Israel has reportedly received assurances from the U.S. that , if violations are not reversed , it can act militarily . <p> In Gaza , Israel has also successfully destroyed the military threat posed by an adversary -- before October 7 , 2023 , Hamas had five brigades , with 24 battalions . Those are now gone , along with most of its weapons depots , labs , and production facilities . More than 60 percent of its tunnels have been blown up , including some as deep as a 25-story building . But unlike in Israel 's conflict with Hezbollah , in which it set more limited goals , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has repeatedly pledged " total victory " over Hamas . Just as Israel could not eliminate Hezbollah -- and the U.S. could not eliminate the Taliban in Afghanistan -- Israel can defeat Hamas but not eradicate it , as IDF leaders have recognized . Hamas 's ideology has been profoundly destructive to the Palestinian people , and polls show that they know it . Israel now needs to translate its military achievements against Hamas in Gaza into a sustainable political outcome . <p> Israel has repeated the mistake in Gaza that the George W. Bush administration made in Iraq and Afghanistan , and failed to marry its military action to achievable political goals at the outset . <p> In Gaza , Israel must avoid either a vacuum , in which Hamas could reemerge , or an indefinite stay , which would guarantee an insurgency . Israel did not adopt the successful model that General David Petraeus employed in Iraq , clearing an area of terrorists and then holding it , while building a better life for civilians . Such a model applied to Gaza would have provided Palestinians with both security from Hamas and confidence that it would not return . Instead , the IDF is still fighting in northern Gaza , even though it has cleared the area multiple times . <p> The most viable alternative is a mixed interim administration . The United Arab Emirates is prepared to be part of a stabilization force in Gaza , and Egypt , Morocco , Jordan , and Bahrain might also participate -- not to bail out Israel , but to ensure that it withdraws and to end Palestinian the suffering . They would join with others , including the United States and European nations , to administer Gaza . Rebuilding Gaza will be an enormous task in its own right , but it will also require the restoration of law and order , the prevention of smuggling , and the permanent demilitarization of the area . <p> The aim of such an administration would be to have the Palestinian Authority assume control over Gaza in 18 to 24 months . The PA today is weak , dysfunctional , and corrupt , but it can be reformed , as it was during Salam Fayyad 's tenure as prime minister from 2007 to 2012 . Once reformed , it could assume responsibility for Gaza . But none of this will happen unless there is an end to the war , conditioned on the release of all the hostages , and accompanied by a withdrawal of Israeli forces -- which , as in Lebanon , Netanyahu can rightly claim resulted from Israel 's military achievements . <p> In Gaza , as in Lebanon , Israel has won militarily -- and so it must focus now on producing a diplomatic outcome . The Biden administration can again use the leverage of Israel 's military achievements to push a political process in which Arab states and others can come into Gaza , as Secretary of State Antony Blinken has been attempting . <p> Our experience is that personal relationships are crucial to successful diplomacy , especially in the Middle East . President-Elect Donald Trump has great credibility with the Israeli government , and with the Gulf States , including Saudi Arabia . That he has made it clear that he wants the war in Gaza to end no doubt contributed to Netanyahu 's acceptance of the U.S.-brokered cease-fire in Lebanon and adds to the prime minister 's need to find an acceptable way out of Gaza . Producing an international and regional administration in Gaza and phasing out the IDF will take some time -- and should be done in coordination with the incoming Trump administration . It would be a mistake for Israel to wait for the new administration , as it will take time for Trump to put in place officials who can do what the Biden administration is already doing . <p> The smart application of statecraft has produced a cease-fire in Lebanon , and it has now created an opening to end the war in Gaza . Peace in Gaza would also create an opportunity for Trump to expand the Abraham Accords to include the normalization of ties between Israel and Saudi Arabia , which he has declared a priority . The Saudis want a credible pathway to a Palestinian state as the precondition of any deal , while the Israeli public and the current government are not ready to accept that . Trump will need to move quickly to leverage his political capital with the Saudis and Israelis if he hopes to pull off a deal . But if he can , a Saudi-Israeli breakthrough would transform the Middle East , creating a coalition to counter Iranian threats and promoting stability and progress in the region . 
@@118365522 <p> Israeli authorities say there are still 62 hostages alive in Gaza . Hamas is also holding the bodies of 35 hostages who were murdered -- either on Oct. 7 or while they were in captivity . In total 251 people were abducted from Israel during the terrorist attack last year . <p> Following confirmation of his death , Gov . Kathy Hochul ordered flags to be flown at half-staff on the day of the slain New Yorker 's funeral . <p> " For months we 've prayed for the safe return of Omer Neutra and all those kidnapped by Hamas on October 7th . This horrific news shakes all New Yorkers to our core , " Hochul said in a statement . <p> " I 've met with Omer 's brave family and learned so much about this incredible young man , " she added . " As we mourn this tragedy , let us continue to pray for the safe return of the remaining hostages , an end to the war without Hamas in power , and a lasting peace . " <p> A memorial service will be held Tuesday morning at Midway Jewish Center in Syosset . Shiva at Midway will be held Tuesday , Wednesday and Thursday . <p> Neutra was stationed with the 7th Armored Brigade 's 77th Battalion near the community of Nahal Oz when Hamas ambushed his unit during the terror attack . 
@@118367432 <p> Israel has killed eleven people , including a State Security officer , in separate attacks in Lebanon as it continues its assaults on the country since the ceasefire with Hezbollah came into effect last week . <p> The truce agreement was pushed to the brink on Monday as Israel 's air strikes killed two people , and Hezbollah launched an attack against an Israeli military position in retaliation . Israel , then , responded with a series of air raids that killed at least nine people , according to the Lebanese Health Ministry . <p> Hezbollah said on Monday that it carried out a " preliminary defensive response " to the " repeated violations " of the ceasefire by attacking an Israeli military base in the hills of Kfar Chouba , a disputed area that Lebanon claims as its own . <p> Hezbollah said Israeli breaches of the truce that went into effect on Wednesday include deadly air raids across Lebanon , shooting at civilians in the south , and flying drones and jets in Lebanese airspace , including over the capital , Beirut . <p> Advertisement <p> The group said it launched its " warning " strike because " appeals by the relevant authorities to stop these violations did not succeed " . <p> But the Hezbollah move did not appear to deter further Israeli assaults . Israel carried out multiple air strikes as a promised a " harsh " response to the Hezbollah attack . <p> The Lebanese Health Ministry said the raids killed five people in Haris and four in Talloussah in south Lebanon . <p> The renewed violence highlights the fragility of the ceasefire , which ended a devastating war that killed nearly 4,000 people in Lebanon and saw Hezbollah fire rockets daily at Israel . <p> Earlier on Monday , Lebanon 's State Security agency said an Israeli rocket killed officer Mahdi Khreis in the southern district of Nabatieh , calling the incident a " blatant violation " of the ceasefire and a dangerous escalation . <p> Israeli bombardment in neighbouring Marjayoun killed another person , Lebanon 's Health Ministry said . A drone attack in the northeast of the country also injured a Lebanese soldier . <p> Although the ceasefire calls on all parties to hold their fire , Israel has been conducting near-daily assaults against Lebanon . <p> Lebanese media outlets have also reported that the Israeli military is using the truce to advance into new neighbourhoods in towns that it had entered during the war . <p> Reporting from Beirut , Al Jazeera 's Ali Hashem said life in Lebanon " started resuming " after the ceasefire was reached with hundreds of thousands of displaced people returning to their homes . <p> Advertisement <p> " Now , it seems with Israel 's insistence on violating the ceasefire , Hezbollah found it necessary to say ... that these violations must stop or things might get out of control , " Hashem said . <p> After months of low-level hostilities , Israel launched an all-out war on Lebanon on September 23 with the stated aim of defeating Hezbollah . <p> The Lebanese group had been targeting Israeli military bases in northern Israel for months in an effort that it said was aimed at pressuring Israel to end its war on Gaza . <p> Israel assassinated top Hezbollah military and political leaders early in the war , including the group 's chief Hassan Nasrallah . <p> It also levelled thousands of buildings and homes across Lebanon with its focus on southern and eastern Lebanon and the Beirut suburbs of Dahiyeh -- areas where Hezbollah is popular . <p> Still , Hezbollah continued to fire rockets at northern and central Israel . The group also said it inflicted heavy losses on invading Israeli troops that crossed into Lebanese territory . <p> The truce , which was brokered by the United States and France , stipulates that the Israeli military must withdraw from Lebanon within 60 days and Hezbollah must move away from the border with Israel to the north of the Litani River . <p> During those two months , the Lebanese army would deploy to southern Lebanon to be the only armed force there . <p> Although Israel said its recent air strikes are meant to " enforce " the truce , the agreement prohibits attacks by all sides . <p> Lebanese Parliament Speaker Nabih Berri , a Hezbollah ally who was Lebanon 's chief negotiator in the ceasefire talks , stressed on Monday that Israel has violated the truce dozens of times , including by carrying out air raids and demolishing homes near the border . <p> Advertisement <p> " All these activities represent flagrant violations of the ceasefire agreement , " he said in a statement . <p> But Washington voiced confidence in the truce agreement on Monday . " Broadly speaking , it has been successful in stopping the fighting and getting us on a path where we are not seeing the daily loss of life that we had seen for two months prior , " US State Department spokesperson Matthew Miller told reporters . <p> He said the US administration will work through a monitoring mechanism established by the agreement to address potential violations to the ceasefire . 
@@118367436 <p> Hamas 's announcement comes as the group and Fatah discuss the Palestinian Authority 's management of post-war Gaza . <p> Palestinians walk next to damaged buildings after Israeli forces withdrew from a part of Nuseirat refugee camp in central Gaza following a ground operation File : Abd Elhkeem Khaled/Reuters <p> Published On 2 Dec 20242 Dec 2024 <p> Hamas says 33 captives held by the group in Gaza have been killed since the start of Israel 's nearly 14-month-old war in the besieged enclave . <p> The group issued a video statement on Monday saying the captives were killed " because of the stubbornness of the war criminal " Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and " his ongoing aggression " . <p> Hamas made the announcement as key mediators , including Egypt , Qatar and the United States , launch another effort to reach a ceasefire that would see the release of Israeli captives . <p> The push comes after a recent truce in Lebanon raised hope for a diplomatic breakthrough . <p> Hamas 's video lists and dates the incidents in which the group said captives were killed . Most of them were air strikes . However , some were rescue attempts by the Israeli military gone wrong . <p> According to the Hamas , the first incident was an Israeli air strike that killed four captives on October 9 , 2023 . The latest was the killing of a captive during the Israeli military operation in northern Gaza last month . <p> Separately on Monday , the White House issued a statement grieving the death of Omer Neutra , a US citizen who was serving in the Israeli military . <p> Neutra was killed by Hamas during its attack on Israel on October 7 , 2023 , while serving as a tank commander for the army , according to the White House . <p> Incoming US President Donald Trump issued his own statement on the captives later on Monday , warning in a social media post that where would be " ALL HELL TO PAY " if they are not released by January 20 , the day he takes office . <p> Meanwhile , delegations from the Palestinian factions Fatah and Hamas met in Cairo to " reach a mutual understanding " on the Palestinian Authority 's management of the Gaza Strip after the end of Israel 's war , Egypt 's foreign minister said on Monday . <p> " There are indeed two delegations from the Fatah and Hamas movements in Cairo consulting and deliberating to quickly reach a mutual understanding regarding the management of daily affairs in the Gaza Strip under the full control of the Palestinian Authority , " Badr Abdelatty told a news conference in Cairo . <p> Netanyahu previously voiced opposition to allowing the Palestinian Authority ( PA ) to take over Gaza . However , the US says it wants a " reformed " PA to be in charge of the Palestinian enclave . <p> As the talks continued , Israeli forces have pressed on with the bombardment of Gaza , attacking Jabalia in the north and Abasan al-Kabira in the south . <p> Advertisement <p> Northern Gaza has been particularly battered after Israel began besieging it 60 days ago . Gaza 's Government Media Office said at least 3,700 people have been killed or are missing since then . <p> Israel 's offensive in Gaza -- which United Nations experts have described as a genocide -- has killed at least 44,466 Palestinians and wounded 105,358 since October 7 , 2023 . <p> At least 1,139 people were killed in Israel during the Hamas-led attacks that day , and more than 200 were taken captive . 
@@118367437 <h> Trump says ' hell to pay ' if captives in Gaza not released <p> A billboard in &lt;span&gt;Tel Aviv&lt;/span&gt; , Israel , shows President-elect Donald Trump after he won the US presidential election last month File : Oded Balilty/The Associated Press <p> Published On 2 Dec 20242 Dec 2024 <p> United States President-elect Donald Trump has promised " there will be hell to pay " if captives held in Gaza during Israel 's ongoing war are not released by the time he takes office on January 20 . <p> The statement on Monday was Trump 's most forceful on the deadlocked efforts to bring an end to the war since the November 5 US elections and comes amid reports that he is pushing for a ceasefire to be reached before his second term begins . <p> In a post on Truth Social , Trump decried " all talk , and no action " about the captives in apparent derision of US President Joe Biden and his administration 's inability to broker a ceasefire between Israel and Hamas in more than a year of war . <p> " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " he said . <p> " Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America . RELEASE THE HOSTAGES NOW ! " he wrote . <p> Advertisement <p> The post offered no details on what the threat would entail or if it could involve the deployment of the US military . It also did not specify which parties it was referring to but notably referenced only captives held by Hamas without mentioning Palestinian civilians who have borne the brunt of Israeli operations in Gaza . <p> Both Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and the leaders of Hamas have been accused of scuttling talks aimed at ending the fighting for months . <p> Hamas has repeatedly offered to release captives held in Gaza in return for an end to the war , but the Israeli government is adamant that the war will continue until Hamas is totally defeated . <p> At least one Israeli official was quick to praise Trump 's post on Monday . <p> " Thank you and bless you Mr. President-elect @realDonaldTrump , " President Isaac Herzog wrote on X. " We all pray for the moment we see our sisters and brothers back home ! " <h> Policy takes shape <p> Despite its ambiguity , the promise of escalation represents a departure for Trump as the Middle East policy of his second term continues to take shape . <p> The former president had campaigned on the broad notion that he would bring about peace in the Middle East , particularly in Gaza , but has offered scant details on how that would be achieved . His " America First " platform has long eschewed further involvement of US forces , assets or funding in conflicts abroad . <p> At the same time , Trump has voiced support for Israel to " finish the job " in the Palestinian enclave and has long been Netanyahu 's preferred leader in the US . <p> Advertisement <p> During his first term from 2017 to 2021 , Trump was a strong backer of the US ally . <p> He moved the US embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem , the illegally occupied eastern half of which has long been seen as the capital of a future Palestinian state . He recognised Israeli sovereignty over the occupied Golan Heights in Syria . He forged a series of normalisation agreements between Israel and Arab countries , and he allowed for the rapid expansion of Israeli settlements , which are illegal under international law . <p> This time around , Trump has packed his administration nominations with staunchly pro-Israel officials , including his secretary of state pick Senator Marco Rubio , a rabid defender of Israel 's war , and ambassador to Israel pick Mike Huckabee , a vocal supporter of Israeli settlements in the occupied West Bank who refuses to use its commonly used name , instead referring to " Judea and Samaria " . <h> Ceasefire talks resume <p> Still , speaking to the Axios news site last week , Trump ally and Senator Lindsey Graham said the president-elect " is more determined than ever to release the hostages and supports a ceasefire that includes a hostage deal " . <p> " He wants to see it happening now , " he said . <p> Graham made the statement just days after Biden announced a ceasefire had been reached between Israel and Hezbollah to end the fighting in Lebanon . <p> As of Monday , that agreement appeared to be on the brink of collapse with both Hezbollah and Israel accusing the other of violating its terms . <p> Biden also promised to re-up efforts to reach a long elusive deal to end the fighting in Gaza , where at least 44,466 Palestinians have been killed since Israel launched its war following the October 7 , 2023 , attacks by Hamas that killed at least 1,139 people in Israel with more than 200 taken captive . <p> Advertisement <p> Israeli authorities have said 101 captives remain in Gaza . On Monday , Hamas said a total of 33 captives had been killed since the beginning of the war . <p> On Sunday , Hamas officials told reporters the group 's leaders had held talks with Egyptian security officials in a renewed push for a ceasefire . Israeli officials also said Netanyahu was to hold security talks on the matter . <p> Speaking to CNN , White House National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan said he thought the chances of a Gaza ceasefire and hostage deal had improved despite remaining a distant prospect . <p> " Hamas are isolated . Hezbollah is no longer fighting with them , and their backers in Iran and elsewhere are preoccupied with other conflicts , " he said . <p> " So I think we may have a chance to make progress , but I 'm not going to predict exactly when it will happen . ... We 've come so close so many times and not gotten across the finish line . " <p> White House officials have repeatedly made similar assertions without successfully bringing about a ceasefire . 
@@118378323 <h> Former hostages who were released last November reported seeing Edan alive , but the Alexanders had n't received any updates on their son 's condition since . <p> The mother of Israeli hostage Edan Alexander hugs an organizer at a pro-Israel rally , nearly one year after Hamas ' October 7 , 2023 attack in southern Israel , in the Manhattan borough of New York City , US October 6 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/Stephani Spindel ) <p> Right away , Adi recognized the hostage in the video to be his 20-year-old son , Edan , a New Jersey-born dual-Israeli citizen who was serving with the Golani Brigade on the Gaza border when he was abducted on October 7 . <p> A second , longer video of Edan shortly followed . <p> " It was very emotional and disturbing , but we were happy to see him after a year that we did n't see our son , " Adi said during an interview with The Jerusalem Post on Sunday morning after a whirlwind 24 hours since learning Edan was still alive . <p> Former hostages who were released last November reported seeing Edan alive , but the Alexanders had n't received any updates on their son 's condition since . EDAN ALEXANDER , a bright 19-year-old from New Jersey , was taken hostage while serving in the IDF. ( credit : Courtesy Alexander Family ) <p> After the video was released , Adi and Yael then spoke on the phone with Brett McGurk , President Joe Biden 's special envoy to the Middle East , about the video and Edan 's apparent condition . <h> Hope for progress in ceasefire <p> McGurk was instrumental in the negotiations leading to the Israeli-Lebanese ceasefire announced last week and is spearheading ceasefire talks in Gaza . <p> The Alexanders and families of the six other American hostages will join McGurk and National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan for one of their regular calls this week . This week 's call will be the first since the American families last met with Biden in the White House on November 13 . <p> Yael spoke with President Isaac Herzog on Saturday , and according to Adi , the Israeli government feels like after the Lebanese ceasefire , the time is right and that they can " potentially execute the ceasefire in Gaza . " <p> " And we are really hopeful . I 'm not optimistic . I do n't want to use this term any longer , " Adi said . " But we are really hopeful that this is what they 're going to do . " <p> Adi told the Post that on Saturday , he also spoke with the FBI and a representative from US President-elect Donald Trump 's team , marking the Alexanders ' first conversation with the Trump team since the election . <p> Trump 's team indicated that they were " shoulder-to-shoulder with the current administration to resolve the issue " and were working 24/7 , Adi recounted . <p> In an interview Sunday morning with CBS , Sullivan said there 's been " good coordination on all aspects of the crisis in the Middle East " between the Biden and Trump teams . <p> " We felt it was important that we be in touch with them , to keep them up to speed on what 's happening , because this hand-off has got to be smooth , and they , in turn , have reciprocated by being open and transparent and working with us , " Sullivan told CBS 's Major Garrett . " This is how it should be in a transition . This is what we 're going to keep driving for every day that we have left in office . " <p> Orna Neutra , the mother of New York-born 23-year-old hostage Omer Neutra , told the Post that Trump has a track record from his first administration of getting things done in the Middle East in a way that many other presidents were n't capable of . <p> The Neutras shared they also learned about the video of Edan directly from an Israeli officer . <p> Ronen immediately called the Alexanders , saying it was so good hearing their relief of knowing their son was alive . <p> His conversation with the Alexanders also upped the sense of urgency to make sure that everyone in both the Biden and Trump administrations is " really doing whatever they can . " <p> It was emotional for them to see that Edan was doing okay , as painful as it was to see him , Ronen said . <p> " It gives us a sense of hope , after such a long time that his parents did n't see him , " Ronen said . " And , of course , we 're craving to see our own son . After all this struggle that we all have been experiencing ... we have to continue ; it gives us strength to continue . " 
@@118378327 <p> DEMONSTRATORS CALL for the release of the hostages still held captive in Gaza , at Hostages Square in Tel Aviv , on Saturday night . The hostages taken by Hamas during its rampage have endured ordeals that defy any civilized description , the writer affirms. ( photo credit : AVSHALOM SASSONI/FLASH90 ) <p> The psychological harm of captivity was as great or greater than the intense physical harm suffered by the hostages , a report on the health impacts of captivity on the freed hostages found . <p> The report , compiled by the Hostage Family Forum 's Medical Team , highlighted the psychological impacts of captivity , saying that post-traumatic stress disorder is common among released hostages . <p> Some are also showing symptoms of complex post-traumatic stress disorder following repeated exposure to violence and torture . This exposure also shattered the worldview of many of the hostages , leading them to lose faith , the report added . <p> These symptoms are more significant among those who experienced violence or were separated from their families , the report added.A woman holds a spray can next to a child as hostages are released by Hamas , in Tel Aviv , Israel , November 26 , 2023 ( credit : REUTERS/ATHIT PERAWONGMETHA ) <h> Survivors guilt and heavy anxiety <p> The children who were held hostage have an especially hard time processing their feelings , and some show regression and anxiety . <p> Hyper-alertness among the released hostages is made worse by the ongoing war in Israel , the report said , explaining that this is caused by sirens and other signs of danger . <p> Many released hostages and their families are also struggling with survivor guilt and ongoing trauma , the report added . This is especially true when their family members , friends , or those who were taken hostage with them remain in captivity , the report stated . <p> This emotional toll complicates the healing process of the released hostages , with many struggling to reconcile their freedom with the suffering of the remaining hostages , the report added . <p> The report also noted that many released hostages have joined efforts to advocate and raise awareness for the remaining hostages , a process that takes a physical and emotional toll and leaves little room for the hostages to care for themselves and go through rehabilitation . <p> The transition out of captivity has also posed freed hostages with challenges , the report noted , saying that many of the freed hostages were exposed to the devastation of Hamas ' October 7 attack on Israel with their return . <p> Many of the released hostages also lost their anonymity and felt that their identity became tied to their experience as hostages . <p> " The public attention surrounding their release , although supportive , at times intensified their sense of alienation and made it difficult for them to return to normalcy , " the report said . <p> Another factor that impacted the mental health of the released hostages was the impact on their family dynamics , the report noted . <p> Many families were not prepared for the reality of receiving their loved ones back from captivity due to short notice of their return . A lack of guidance and tools during this time left the families to cope with the unexpected responses of the returning hostages . <p> The report also outlined the physical implications of captivity on the hostages , saying that it caused malnutrition and weight loss , digestive issues and problems relating to the poor hygiene conditions of captivity , worsening chronic illness , and physical injury . <p> The report also touched on the injuries sustained by the hostages during their kidnapping , such as fractures that were not treated and nerve damage . These injuries have left long-term damage and disability . <p> Not only did hostages lose weight , but the poor nutrition of the food they were given , which was mainly rice and bread , increased medical risk and required medical intervention to prevent refeeding syndrome . <p> Poor hygiene conditions and exposure to contaminated water caused digestive tract infections and chronic diarrhea , the report said , adding that the hostages also suffered from skin conditions , lice , and more . <p> Many of the released hostages are still contending with difficulties stabilizing their condition after chronic illnesses went untreated in captivity , the report said . Some have suffered irreversible damage . <p> The medical impacts of captivity have far-reaching implications for the hostages ' ability to work and to get an education . <p> The report touched on the fight to free the remaining hostages , saying that in order for the healing process for the hostage families and for Israeli society to begin , all the hostages must be brought back . <p> Among the recommendations made by the medical team was the call to form a national plan for rehabilitation and to increase rehabilitative services for the freed hostages and their families , including psychological , physical , and social support . <p> " The struggle for the release of the hostages conveys a vital message to the families of the hostages and those who have been freed , providing them with support and helping them cope with their immense suffering , " the report said . <p> " The Israeli public must continue and even strengthen these efforts through demonstrations and demands for the hostages ' immediate release . It is essential to ensure that their situation remains at the top of the national agenda and central to the public and political discourse . " <p> The report also highlighted that the international community and international aid organizations must work to free the hostages . <p> " Bringing all the hostages home is not only a moral obligation but also a necessary condition for the collective healing of the hostages ' families , the released hostages , and israeli society as a whole , " the report stressed . <p> The report was based on a number of studies and reports on the returned Israeli hostages , as well as medical assessments and interviews conducted by the hostage family forum with the released hostages and their families . 
@@118378333 <h> Beyond the headlines : A weekly glimpse into the Israel you wo n't read about in the news <p> Sheryl Sandberg speaks at the JFNA General Assembly. ( photo credit : sivanrahavmeir.com ) <p> We are now in the Hebrew month of Kislev , with the light-filled holiday of Hanukkah soon approaching . Did you learn about Kislev and Hanukkah in kindergarten ? Because everything we learned then still holds true today ! Here are a few points : <p> It is a month that highlights the struggle between the forces of good and evil . The side that will ultimately emerge victorious is not the stronger one , but the one that represents the truth . All our enemies will soon find themselves in the " dustbin of history . " <p> Kislev is a month of military as well as spiritual strength . <p> There are times when we need to maintain our courage over an extended period , making it difficult to keep up the momentum . But the month of Kislev reminds us that we must continually grow as we move forward . In Hebrew , this is called " mosif v'holeich , " referring to the fact that each day of Hanukkah , we add another candle until the entire menorah shines with all eight Hanukkah candles . Nevertheless , each day has its own light . Similarly , if we manage to carry on our daily routine during these challenging days , we will see success in each day . <p> Finally , this is a month of miracles , prayers , and salvation . History has taught us that anything can happen , and we can be surprised by something good we never anticipated . A small container of oil miraculously provided enough oil for eight days , and in the end , the light was greater than we could have ever imagined . <p> May we see the miracles of those days recurring in our times , God willing , very soon . <p> WE ENTER Kislev with great hopes for a collective miracle . ( credit : YONATAN SINDEL/FLASH90 ) <h> Higher ! <p> Sheryl Sandberg addressed the Jewish leaders gathered at the General Assembly in Washington , DC , with a simple yet profound experiment . " Everyone , raise your hand as high as you can , " she instructed . <p> As the audience complied , she added , " Now , raise it an inch higher . " Remarkably , each person managed to lift their hand even further . " See that ? " she said . " When we think we 've done all we can , we realize we can do more -- and we do . And we have ! " <p> Sandberg 's message reflects the resilience and determination unfolding among Jews worldwide in the wake of recent tragedies . This collective awakening has even been given a name : " The Jews of October 8th " -- those who rose anew the day after . <p> A billionaire and former COO of Meta , Sandberg also spearheaded the production of Screams Before Silence , a film documenting Hamas ' atrocities against women on October 7th . On stage , she described her shock at the lack of response from women 's organizations and the global community . " The silence was deafening , " she said on stage . " All the work we did together for years for women , it was as if none of that had ever happened . " <p> The events of that Simchat Torah fundamentally changed her , but in a profoundly positive way . " In the past , people would ask me : Are you a Jewish-American or an American-Jew ? Which part of your identity comes first ? Since October 7th , I sit here as a different person . Today , being Jewish is as central to my identity as anything else . I sit here as a proud Zionist and a proud Jew , in a way I could n't have imagined a year and a half ago . " <p> Sandberg urged the audience to focus not solely on antisemitism or anti-Israel sentiment , but on the strength and beauty of Jewish identity . Quoting journalist Bari Weiss , she emphasized : " Our identity as Jews has to be more rooted in Sinai than in Auschwitz . That 's true , because being Jewish is a wonderful thing -- a tradition of charity , of caring for others , of knowledge , of study , of family , and of community . " <p> She shared a personal story : " Last January , I asked my daughter what she wanted for her birthday . She was n't particularly affiliated but she said she wanted a Jewish Star , and she 's worn it every day since then . So have I , and so have my two other daughters . My middle daughter is president of the Jewish affinity club in her school . She was n't a member a year and a half ago ! I am born again , and that has had some beautiful moments . I am part of this community in a different way . " <p> Will October 7th be remembered not only as a day of unspeakable tragedy but also as a turning point -- a day of global Jewish awakening ? Can we all raise our hands just a little higher ? Thank you , Sheryl , for inspiring us to try . <p> Bringing Torah to Bezalel <p> Last week I received a message about a Torah scroll dedication ceremony that took place at the Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design . This was a notable occasion , since it was the first Torah scroll ever brought to this prestigious college . Established back in 1906 , Bezalel once prided itself on its left-leaning , anti-religious agenda . Today , that is slowly changing . <p> The new Torah scroll represented a joint effort : The curtain for the ark housing the Torah was designed by Bezalel students ; the Torah mantle was donated by the family of fallen soldier St. Sgt. Shilo Amir ; and the Torah scroll itself was a gift from Chabad on Campus . This particular scroll was restored after being damaged during the Simchat Torah massacre in one of the Gaza border communities . <p> " In a beautiful moment of unity , we all came together to write the final letters of the Torah scroll , " wrote the Bezalel student . " It 's fitting that Bezalel , the academy 's namesake , was the artisan who built the Tabernacle for the Israelites in the desert . " <h> The Woman 's Role <p> This week 's parasha contains one of the most difficult verses in the Torah . During her painful years of being childless , Rachel lashes out at Jacob : " Give me children , and if not , I am dead . " <p> Commentators have given various explanations for this emotionally charged exchange between Rachel and Jacob . Six hundred years ago , Spanish Rabbi Isaac Arama wrote that every woman has two purposes in life . The first is to give birth to and bring up children and the other is " to be educated in wisdom and piety . " Rabbi Arama wrote that Rachel 's words were misplaced because she only focused on one of her missions but ignored the second one : to study and become educated , to learn Torah and do good deeds . That is also an integral part of a woman 's mission . <p> Professor Nechama Leibowitz quotes Rabbi Arama 's explanation in her books and explains how fundamentally important it is . She writes that Rachel is fleeing from fulfilling part of her mission ; Rachel did not understand that she had additional functions in life beyond giving birth . Later in the parasha , we are told that Rachel gave birth to Joseph and then to Benjamin . <p> We can only contemplate what Professor Leibowitz herself thought of what she had written . She was highly successful in being " educated in wisdom and piety " but never merited to give birth . 
@@118378335 <p> Currently at the top of all the pop radio station charts , from Galei Tzahal to Reshet Gimmel , the song has millions of views on YouTube , is played at weddings and events , and frequently features on Channel 14 's The Patriots program . <p> An amalgam of Mizrahi , hassidic , and Mediterranean influences , the song transcends all of those genres to become quintessentially Israeli . Its origins trace back to Breslov Hassidism , with lyrics inspired by Rabbi Shalom Arush . Its ecstatic refrain , climbing in modulation and reaching a catharsis reminiscent of the Na-Nach-Nachma-Nachman vans music blared out at Jerusalem street intersections by Breslov-dancing hippies : " Hashem loves me , and everything will be good , even better . " <p> The song has been recorded by artists Yair Elitzur , Kobi Peretz , and Itzik Dadia . But it is Shaulov 's version , released in September , that has taken off and become ubiquitous on the local musical landscape . Reb Nachman 's followers drive through Jerusalem 's Geula neighborhood in a van decorated with his image and name . ( credit : MARC ISRAEL SELLEM ) <h> ' A beautiful , happy life ' <p> Its uplifting nature resonates with listeners , offering a sense of transcendence , connection , and devotion . The hypnotic and infectious rhythm makes listeners want to rise to their feet , lift their hands to the heavens , and sing : " Even better , even better . " <p> Its promise ? Absolute happiness : " There will be livelihood , wealth , matches for the unmarried , and complete health . " Essentially , " A beautiful , happy life , year after year . " <p> After more than a year of war , and with 101 hostages still languishing in Gaza , the rise of " Tamid Ohev Oti " coincides with a deep longing for positivity , overshadowing critiques , leaks , and failures . <p> Is its success simply a desire to believe that there are better days ahead , or a concession that maybe hope and gratitude is the only way to get through these times ? <p> For the same reason , it 's become a sensation -- accentuating the positive -- it 's also been criticized for sugarcoating the reality of today 's struggling society and for sounding like just another song one hears sung with fervor at religious weddings . <p> According to musicologist David Peretz , a longtime musician , songwriter , and lecturer on Israeli music at Sapir Academic College in Sderot , the song has landed at a moment in which the cultural norms have shifted in the country . The one special element that made this song big is demographics . The demographics in Israel have changed significantly in the last few years , " he told The Jerusalem Post . <p> " In the past , Israeli culture was the culture of the minority that thought it was the majority . In the past few years , with the rise of a type of music that could be called ' religious pop , ' God has become a pop star . A lot of people commented , ' What 's this , where did it come from ? The religious are taking over , the settlers are taking over . ' In reality , they were always there , but they did n't have legitimacy to be a part of mainstream Israeli culture . " <p> Peretz , who also researches Mizrahi music at the Tammuz Institute , provided a story that he says explains the song 's popularity across the Israeli cultural spectrum . " Yesterday , I was near Haifa at a non-kosher restaurant , and there was a woman working there in modern dress , tights , and a halter top , but when she entered a room , she kissed the mezuza on the wall . And that 's the whole story with this song , " he said . <p> " It 's perfectly clear that not everybody who 's singing along to it today actually is a believer . But it does n't hurt . I 'm sure that the song is a guilty pleasure of north Tel Avivians . They may not believe that ' Hashem loves me , ' but they feel ' Let me just enjoy this for a minute ... because what else is there to do ? ' " <p> " I see this integration as a positive development in the extreme , for Israeli culture , " Peretz added . <p> Some may call it sticking their heads in the sand or accepting a messianic , benevolent universe , but " Tamid Ohev Oti " has become a cultural touchstone , offering an alternative lens : a parallel universe where life is indeed good -- and might just get better . <p> It 's more than a song ; it 's a phenomenon symbolizing denial and escapism . Perhaps , it suggests , we 're not as badly off as the headlines imply . 
@@118410028 <p> Though I have spent many years as a journalist , my other profession as a teacher is the closest to my heart ; when I studied biology and its teaching methods at university , I knew that I would become one . I became excited about getting a job in education , but unfortunately I was not lucky at first -- because I live in Gaza , that besieged area on which Israel has imposed many sanctions that have led to a reduction in job opportunities and an increase in the unemployment rate . But I felt I had to meet this challenge that was inside me : I would become a teacher ; I would practice this profession . <p> I started teaching at home with private lessons . I used to work 12 hours a day to teach students , in both the mornings and the evenings . Then , five years ago , I got the opportunity I was waiting for : I became a science teacher for the fifth and sixth grades at the Rosary Sisters School in Gaza City . Those years held the happiest moments of my life -- a lively routine full of giving , passion , and love . <p> Waking up early , at 6 a.m. , seeing the streets filled with students from all the schools , the traffic police stopping cars so that the students could pass safely -- it made me happy . I live in the southern Gaza Strip , and the school in Gaza City is in the north . It took me about half an hour to get there every day ; in those 30 minutes I would look out the window a lot and see these students in different types of school uniforms , and watch their conversations and their laughter with one another . The streets were so vibrant during the school year . <p> Advertisement <p> When I arrived at school , the students would run toward me to hug and welcome me , offering many nice comments on my daily appearance . I was interested in being an elegant teacher because I thought it would help my students love my subject . I felt that the student needs to love their teacher to love the material , especially when it comes to science . It is not a simple subject and often requires long explanations . These students must accept this flood of information from someone they love . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Our favorite place at school is the science lab . More than any other place , it used to unite the students and teachers as colleagues when we conducted our many scientific experiments together . Unfortunately , we had an appointment for classes in the lab on Oct. 8 , 2023 ; the war deprived us of it . <p> Advertisement <p> Wars are the biggest enemy of all students . When we heard the sounds of warplanes roaming the skies of Gaza , we were worried . The students were sitting under the chairs , and we were calming them down by telling them that there would be no bombing . Many of them asked us repeatedly if there might be a war in Gaza . Then each one of them would start talking about their experience in previous wars and express their intense hatred for war and destruction . I tried comforting them by telling them that there would be no more wars , and that what happened in the 2021 war would not be repeated . Unfortunately , we lived through a difficult conflict then . The school was severely damaged , and my science lab was , too . We returned for the next year later than other schools . When the current war started , the administration had not even finished restoring and repairing the school from the previous one . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> The students expressed their hatred for the war from that first moment , complaining that it would force them to stay at home and deprive them of school for several days . It was so nice last year ; I felt that these children had very mature minds . They were following the news a lot . Every morning they would express their concern about the tragic events in Jerusalem and the West Bank and say that they did not want this war to move to Gaza . We all wanted to continue our lives in peace . They wanted to finish the school year without a war , or anything political that would hinder their studies . <p> Advertisement <p> On Oct. 5 last year , it was a Thursday . We put together a work plan for Monday , because Friday was an official holiday . Saturday , Oct. 7 , was an annual holiday for our school that commemorates its founding . Sunday , Oct. 8 , was the official holiday for Christian schools in Gaza , and we were supposed to return to school on Monday . We were very happy to have three days off , because we had just finished the first month 's exams and we needed a rest . But that Saturday , Oct. 7 , at about half past 6 in the evening , we heard the sounds of rockets being launched . Many of my students sent me messages asking me : What is this ? What is happening ? After about two hours we understood what had happened in Israel and what was happening in Gaza , and it was all very difficult and tragic . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> That first week , studies were suspended in all of Gaza , and the students have not been back to school since . The 2022 -- 2023 school year ended without the students returning ; instead they spent their time in tents , displaced and homeless , far from their homes . Many of them , though , did leave their homes carrying their school bags , and have spent the past year studying without a teacher . The families are in a state of great sadness , and many believe the Israeli army is carrying out a policy of enforced ignorance -- depriving students of studying , destroying their schools and homes , and killing hundreds of students and teachers . <p> In the second year of the war though , parents ' resolve to keep their children learning has survived . Individual educational initiatives began to appear in various displacement camps ; many set up a teaching tent for children in primary school to learn basic subjects including mathematics , English , and Arabic . The ongoing war makes any activity for children seem dangerous to their lives , because the bombing does not stop , and it targets such a wide variety of areas . But some students enjoy the lessons as a break in their daily routine in the tents . They are tired of waiting in lines for water , food , and bread . They want to feel like children who have the right to education . They go to the teaching tents , some of them barefoot ( they no longer have shoes ) , their clothes worn out . They sit on the ground , as they do not have school desks , save for a lucky few . All that sitting in the wrong way and writing on the ground tires their backs . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Ruwaida Amer <p> I have often walked between the tents and seen these children . When I talk to them , they tell me that school has a different place in their hearts . Some of them said , " I miss waking up early . I want those days to come back . " " I would go with my classmates who waited for me in front of the house . We would take our lessons and wait for break time to play . " " I miss going home and having my mother wait for us to eat lunch together , review our lessons , and be safe and warm in our home . " Some of them are in the upper grades , not the first or second , and they do not benefit from the basic lessons that are the only ones available . They feel bored with the classes , believing that there is a lot of information that they are missing . There is no teaching for their more advanced academic level . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <h> Related From Slate <p> I met a 10-year-old girl named Salma who is in the sixth grade and has been displaced from the north to one of the UNRWA schools here . She spoke with great dissatisfaction about the educational tents . She misses the science lessons that she loves . She knows how to read and write in Arabic and wants to learn higher skills , at the level of her studies . She worries that crowding children inside the small tents helps to spread epidemics . She also sees these spaces as unsuitable for both the summer , because they get very hot , and the winter , when they do not protect from the cold . <p> Advertisement <p> Salma says that she misses the security of her old life ; her passion for education has become very low . She is afraid that the war will continue and that she will therefore lose many years of schooling . Salma wants to be a doctor in the future , and she is very afraid of being ignorant of science ; " I do not know what our fault is in all this , as children , that we should have to miss out . I want to go back to my school . I miss my teachers and my lessons . I do not want to stay in the tent without an education . " <p> Advertisement <p> Ruwaida Amer <p> The Ministry of Education in Ramallah has tried to save each school year by offering online teaching , but this has not been easy to access for tens of thousands of students in Gaza who live in tents without good internet connections . The possibility ultimately has become more of a burden on students . They search for the internet , desperate to follow lessons , take exams , and get results in order to pass their grade levels without needing to repeat them again . Parents feel so much fatigue . The lack of internet means that even when their children find a connection , they are often on their own , and the parents ca n't follow along to know what the kids ' lessons are or where they are in their schooling . <p> As a teacher , I can not communicate with my students , wherever they may be in Gaza . I do not know where they are . I was able to reach a few of them who have been able to survive the war and travel to Egypt . But even these children are still suffering , far from Gaza . They talked to me a lot about their memories of school . They dream of returning to it even for one day . They feel that their childhood was stolen during the war . They asked me many times if the school was OK or not . I had to tell them the truth , which is that last December we learned that it was severely damaged , and a number of buildings were bombed , including the theater and the high school students ' building . The Israeli army also burned the library and bulldozed the schoolyard , which had a rest area , a soccer field , and a basketball court . <p> Advertisement <p> I have been teaching over the internet when I can . I try to help my students by explaining science lessons weekly to those in sixth , seventh , and eighth grades in particular , because they do not benefit much from the Ministry of Education program . As a teacher , I am very worried about the future of these students . All the initiatives and attempts to keep kids learning are not enough to save their education so long as the war is ongoing . The bombing and destruction machine is still working . We are still losing hundreds of children , who are also students . The war is destroying all health , education , religion , humanity , and the very Palestinian presence on their land . Many parents say that they live their lives for the future of their children . But there is so little hope for tomorrow . The war has destroyed that future . 
@@118410139 <p> Taylor Swift performs during the opening show of the Toronto dates of The Eras Tour on Nov. 14 , 2024 . Credit : AP/Chris Young <p> By The Associated PressDecember 3 , 2024 11:43 am <p> HARTFORD , Conn. -- From " Childless Cat Lady " to " They 're eating the cats , " Yale University 's list of 2024 's most notable quotations delves into the worlds of presidential politics , entertainment and conspiracy theories while saving room for sports , business and protests against the war in Gaza . <p> The remark was a reference to three-year-old comments made by JD Vance , the Republican vice president-elect , as he described Democrats as beholden to " a bunch of childless cat ladies who are miserable at their own lives and the choices that they 've made and so they want to make the rest of the country miserable , too . " <p> President Joe Biden and President-elect Donald Trump took the next two spots on the list . Biden came in at No. 2 with his recent announcement that he was pardoning his son Hunter . Trump followed with his false claim that , " In Springfield , they 're eating the dogs , the people that came in . They 're eating the cats " during his September debate against Harris . <p> Trump 's comment about Springfield , Ohio , amplified false rumors that Haitian immigrants were abducting and eating pets , repeating inflammatory and anti-immigrant rhetoric he promoted throughout his campaigns . <p> Trump also came in at No. 5 with " Fight ! Fight ! Fight ! " after an assassination attempt in Butler , Pennsylvania . <p> The notable quotations list , compiled each year by Fred Shapiro , an associate director at the Yale Law Library , is a supplement to The New Yale Book of Quotations , which is edited by Shapiro and published by Yale University Press . <p> President Joe Biden walks out to speak in the Rose Garden of the White House in Washington , Nov. 26 , 2024 . Credit : AP/Ben Curtis <p> " Please note that the items on this list are not necessarily eloquent or admirable quotations , rather they have been picked because they are famous or important or particularly revealing of the spirit of our times , " Shapiro said . 
@@118410225 <p> When a group of students at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology launched a pro-Palestine magazine in the spring of 2024 , they hoped it would serve as a platform for " revolutionary thought on campus , " according to its first issue : " We believe that writing and art are among the most powerful tools for conducting a revolution . " Housing artwork , literature and essays related to Israel 's ongoing war in Gaza , the publication , titled Written Revolution , began as a totally independent magazine before becoming an official student organization this fall . <p> Soon after the October 2024 issue of the magazine came out , however , administrators in the Division of Student Life emailed the publication 's editorial team , demanding that they stop distributing the magazine on campus , according to an email shared with Inside Higher Ed by Prahlad Iyengar , one of the publication 's editors . If they continued to distribute it off campus , the administrators wrote , they must remove any reference to MIT ; if they did not comply , they could face disciplinary action . <p> According to the email , administrators took issue with an article in the October edition that Iyengar wrote himself . Iyengar , a second-year Ph.D . student , had been penalized for his participation in a pro-Palestinian demonstration last spring , and his disciplinary case was ongoing when the October issue was published . Titled " On Pacifism , " his article critiques pacifist movements , arguing that the pro-Palestinian movement must " begin wreaking havoc . " <h> Most Popular <p> " The article makes several troubling statements that could be interpreted as a call for more violent or destructive forms of protest at MIT , " the administrators wrote . " Numerous community members have expressed concern for their safety and well-being after learning of your article . " <p> They also noted that some of the images accompanying the article depict symbols of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine , which the United States has designated as a terrorist organization . " The inclusion of symbolism from a U.S. designated terrorist organization containing violent imagery in a publication by an MIT-recognized student group is deeply concerning , " they wrote . <p> It 's the latest conflict between students and administrators over studentexpression related to the war in Gaza -- and a vivid example of protesters , institutions and free speech advocates disagreeing on what exactly constitutes a call to violence . The issue has pervaded campus discourse since the start of the current pro-Palestinian protest movement over a year ago , with some harshly condemning phrases like " From the river to the sea , Palestine will be free " as a call to eradicate Israel and its people , while others argue it 's simply a cry for peace and Palestinian self-determination . <p> Iyengar said that the main call to action in his piece was not encouraging readers to commit violence , but rather reminding them that " we should be thinking of ways to connect to the community , and we should be thinking of ways that really subvert state power -- because , to me , strategic pacifism is effectively an admission that the state should have a monopoly over violence . " <p> The publication has ceased nearly all distribution in response to administrators ' demands , according to students affiliated with the organization , and Iyengar is facing disciplinary action . <p> An email to Iyengar from the Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards regarding his alleged conduct violations used identical language to the notice sent to Written Revolution 's staff , adding that the new charges will be added to his existing conduct case . The email also described another incident , in which Iyengar sent a message to students working in a campus lab , describing why a pro-Palestinian protest had taken place outside earlier in the day . The message , the office wrote , targeted two professors for working on projects funded by the Israeli military and " exacerbated the distress " of the student lab employees . Iyengar shared the message with Inside Higher Ed ; in it , he told the student workers that the protesters did not wish to " shame or intimidate " them and " invited them to participate in Graduates for Palestine 's efforts to end MIT 's research relationship with Israel . " <p> The student conduct office indicated that his article " On Pacifism " violated a policy that prohibits " threats , intimidation , coercion , and other conduct that can be reasonably , objectively construed to threaten or endanger the mental or physical health or safety of any person . " A separate email sent the same day said he would be restricted from campus access on an interim basis until further notice . <h> Free Speech Concerns <p> A campus speech expert with the Foundation for Individual Rights and Expression told Inside Higher Ed that the writing in Iyengar 's essay does not constitute a threat and is not punishable under the First Amendment . <h> Editors ' Picks <p> " When we 're talking about fears of inciting violence , it needs to be calling not just for some kind of illegal action , simply construed -- it needs to be calling for imminent lawless action , " said Dominic Coletti , a campus advocacy program officer for FIRE . " It really does have to be directed at a group of people who can immediately do the thing you 're telling them to do . Your readers just ca n't do that . They 're not sitting in front of you . " <p> Some believe the university has taken an overzealous approach to stopping the magazine 's distribution . Two students who had distributed copies of Written Revolution prior to its ban told Inside Higher Ed they were approached by a campus police officer and asked if they were distributing " banned fliers . " They were sitting and chatting in an area of campus where they had distributed the zines before they were told not to , but had no copies on them when the officer approached . <p> One of the two students , who requested anonymity , said they found it " alarming " that campus police would be involved in stopping them from distributing a publication . <p> Mila Halgren , the other student , said that , since that day , police have approached other pro-Palestinian organizers tabling on campus to ask about the materials they were handing out . <p> " That has n't happened before and does n't happen to other student organizations , " she said . <p> Students and faculty have pushed back against MIT 's decision to prohibit the zine 's distribution , calling it a " ban on free speech . " Nearly 100 individuals showed up to protest the censorship of the magazine last month , according to WBUR , Boston 's NPR station , and nearly 3,000 people have signed a petition asking the university to reverse the decision . The Middle East Studies Association has also stood behind Iyengar and Written Revolution , asking MIT president Sally Kornbluth and other administrators to end all sanctions against him and unrestrict the distribution of the zine . <p> " Notwithstanding MIT 's suggestions to the contrary , Iyengar 's email message and article -- indisputably forms of expressive activity -- fall squarely within his right to free expression and academic freedom , as articulated by MIT 's own policies and rules , " the association 's Committee on Academic Freedom wrote , citing the institution 's Statement on Freedom of Expression and Academic Freedom and Values Statement . " While some members of the MIT community may have been offended or distressed by Iyengar 's email message and article , according to the university 's own policies those feelings can not be used to deprive Iyengar of his right to express his opinions on matters of public and scholarly concern . " <p> Kornbluth was one of several university presidents interrogated by House Republicans a year ago during congressional hearings about antisemitism on college campuses ; she is one of the few presidents who participated in those hearings to remain in her job a year later . <p> In response to a request for comment , an MIT spokesperson told Inside Higher Ed that the institution can not comment on specific students or disciplinary cases . <p> " MIT and its leadership are deeply committed to ensuring community safety , promoting student well-being , protecting free speech , and responding to policy violations , " she wrote . <p> The anonymous student who was approached by police over concerns about Written Revolution said in an interview that they thought the university 's ban on the zine , and subsequent punishment of Iyengar , had indeed chilled speech about Palestine in recent weeks . <p> " Most people have really not been handing them out in any visible way on campus . People have tried really hard to comply with the ban because we do n't want Iyengar removed from campus or to face any more harsh discipline , " the student said -- noting that the issue is still available online . In addition , " they 've claimed this is associated with capital-T terrorism ... It 's chilled the spreading and sharing of the document . " 
@@118411336 <p> MOSCOW -- Unlike during his first term in the White House , President-elect Donald Trump now appears determined to keep many of his campaign promises . His Cabinet nominations -- from the Kremlin-friendly Tulsi Gabbard as director of national intelligence to the conspiracy-loving vaccine skeptic Robert F. Kennedy Jr . as secretary of Health and Human Services -- confirm his commitment to a scorched-earth campaign against American institutions and perceived enemies " from within . " His victory speech suggests that he is serious about " stopping wars . " <p> Trump has long asserted that he would end the Ukraine war within 24 hours of taking office . There has been much speculation about a negotiated settlement , and the scenarios all have one thing in common : Ukraine 's dismemberment . If this has to be the cost of peace , it is worth considering the grim history of territorial partition . <p> Few events create such long-lasting enmity ; fewer still have caused more devastating violence . The three partitions of Poland that took place in the late 18th century are perhaps Europe 's closest parallel to what may befall Ukraine . Beginning in 1772 , Austria 's Habsburg monarchy , the Kingdom of Prussia and the Russian Empire seized and annexed territory , effectively dividing Polish lands among themselves and erasing what had been Europe 's largest state by landmass . <p> The outgoing president 's priority should be to get the biggest bang possible out of the $6 billion that 's congressionally authorized to support Kyiv . <p> Dec. 3 , 2024 <p> In the face of such subjugation , violent resistance is all but inevitable . Poles conducted periodic guerrilla-style campaigns throughout the occupation , with major uprisings in 1831 and 1863 . Resistance continued well into the 20th century , led by Jozef Pilsudski 's campaigns for independence -- laced with acts of terror -- before World War I. Enmity toward Russia in particular endures , with the Kremlin having Stalin-era violence toward the Polish people to answer for . <p> As for France , it harbored hatred toward Germany for decades over Kaiser Wilhelm I 's absorption of Alsace and Lorraine into the new German Empire following the Franco-Prussian War of 1870-71 . Reconciliation between the two countries began only in the 1950s , with the emergence of the European Coal and Steel Community ( the precursor to today 's European Union ) and NATO . <p> Similarly , Britain 's decision to partition Ireland , keeping the northern province of Ulster as part of the United Kingdom , incited a civil war between those willing to cede Northern Ireland and those who rejected any treaty that did not grant Ireland complete independence . That " war of peace " lasted two years and left a legacy of terror -- both Catholic and Protestant -- that ended only with the Good Friday Agreement , brokered by the United States , in 1998 . <p> Advertisement <p> Perhaps the most brutal partitions occurred in Asia in the 20th century . In 1932 , the Empire of Japan carved Manchuria out of the Republic of China and created the puppet state of Manchukuo . The Japanese Kwantung Army 's 13-year rule there -- which included the enslavement of millions of people , perverse medical experimentation and slaughter of minorities -- became something of a blueprint for the Nazis in Eastern Europe . <p> In terms of lives lost directly to a partition , however , nothing can compare to the 1947 division of the Indian subcontinent , following the departure of the British , into Hindu-majority India and Muslim-majority Pakistan . The partition triggered one of the largest migrations in history -- involving some 18 million people -- with Muslims heading to Pakistan ( including modern-day Bangladesh ) and Hindus and Sikhs trekking to India . Sectarian violence including rapes , burnings and mass killings led to the deaths of as many as 3.4 million people . <p> In the 77 years since the British Raj was partitioned , India and Pakistan have fought four wars , with the most recent , in 1999 , occurring when both countries already possessed nuclear weapons . <p> Advertisement <p> Vietnam 's 1954 partition -- into a northern zone , governed by the communist Viet Minh , and a southern zone , governed by the Republic of Vietnam -- proved similarly bloody , unleashing two decades of war that left up to 3 million Vietnamese dead . <p> And then there is the 1947-48 partition of Palestine into an independent Jewish state and an independent Arab state . This decision by the United Nations sparked decades of hostility , oppression , terrorism and wars that continue to this day . One need only to look at the ruins of Gaza to see the horrifying legacy of partition . <p> Around 32.5% of Russia 's budget posted on a government website Sunday has been allocated for national defense by President Vladimir Putin . <p> Dec. 1 , 2024 <p> So , what might a partition of Ukraine yield ? In fighting for their territorial integrity since February 2022 , Ukrainians have demonstrated courage and dynamism , qualities they will certainly bring to bear in rebuilding their country . But given the scale of the human and economic losses they have incurred , it will be hard for them to submit quietly to the idea of partition . It will be especially hard given that Russian President Vladimir Putin has made no secret of his belief that Ukraine is not just a " neighboring country , " but " that modern Ukraine was entirely created by Russia " and therefore should exist only under the Russian umbrella . <p> In any possible future peace negotiations , Ukrainians know that the best chance to prevent further Russian interference is through ironclad international security guarantees , if not immediate NATO membership . <p> Trump appears to loathe America 's current security commitments , but for the U.S. not to offer such guarantees may prove harmful to Russia , too . <p> Putin rose to power on the heels of a devastating war and protracted insurgency in Russia 's republic of Chechnya , which included terrorist attacks by Chechen separatists in Moscow and other Russian cities . Already in 2022 , the Ukrainians promised a guerrilla war against Russia . Devoid of other options , that risk will only increase . Trump should seek to persuade the Kremlin of the need for fair negotiations ; otherwise , post-partition terrorism may come to Russia , possibly on a greater scale than the Chechens ever imagined . 
@@118422924 <p> " Fourteen months have passed ... the IDF chief needs to take the decision to resign relatively soon , and it needs to be a rapid process to replace him because of the continuing war and because of the broader situation , " they said . <p> They added that " the October 7 probes must be published soon ... and there must be a proper transition period " to allow the incoming chief to get used to the role before Halevi leaves , even if the process will need to be shorter than the several months normally allocated for the transition . <p> They also cited Zamir 's current role as the top non-political official of the Defense Ministry , his former role as deputy IDF chief , his experience in a range of other top military roles , and that he managed to work as Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's military secretary without getting enveloped politically . <p> Their comments come after several days of renewed speculation that Halevi will step down in the coming months , which has reset the debate about who should and will replace him . IDF Chief of Staff Herzi Halevi speaks with other IDF commanders after operations in Jabalya on November 9 , 2024. ( credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <h> Debate returns to the table <p> Why has this debate returned to the front lines now after two to three prior rounds of speculation , which led to dead ends , given that Halevi decided to stay on ? <p> On November 26 , Israel and Lebanon agreed to a ceasefire . <p> Although there is no ceasefire with Gaza , Hamas has been largely militarily defeated since June , Hamas Gaza chief Yahya Sinwar was killed in mid-October , and there is also very little fighting there . And , the longer the Lebanon ceasefire holds , it is more likely that Iran and its proxies would think twice about trying to reignite a major fight . <p> This means that Halevi is closer to a point where he can declare a post-October 7 , 2023 victory and go out with more honor and closure than at earlier points , when other military or political officials were trying to push him out.What seems to remain is that he wants to manage the rollout of the probes to put his stamp on them , and prevent Netanyahu from placing all of the blame on the military . <p> He also had wanted to make key appointments in the military among officers in his camp to set the IDF in the direction he believed it should go . <p> While he has had a good deal of success in this area , recently appointed Defense Minister Israel Katz has blocked two appointments , connecting their fates to Halevi publicizing the October 7 probes . <p> A letter that Halevi publicized last week said the IDF was going to move forward soon with the probes after having paused their progress in August . <p> In the spring , Halevi had promised to publicize all of the probes over July-August and did publicize the Be'eri battle probe in July . Halevi has delayed the other probes , though . This is due to a mix of pushback from field commanders that they were being criticized without the higher military echelon taking responsibility for their failures , as well as a recognition that Netanyahu would not budge even post-war on allowing a neutral state inquiry that might harshly criticize his role in October 7 . <p> Some observers now speculate that the IDF probes will be published in February and that this will mark the time period when Halevi will resign , fulfilling a repeated promise he has made since early in the war to take personal responsibility for October 7 . <p> There were then leaked reports that Strategic Affairs Command Maj.-Gen . Eliezer Toledano , who also served as Netanyahu 's military secretary and was viewed by some as closer to him personally than Zamir , might vie for the post . <p> Toledano himself killed these rumors , saying he would not seek to be chief and that his next plan would be to retire from the military . <p> At earlier stages , there was speculation that almost the whole top military and political echelon would collectively resign over the October 7 failure . <p> This might have broadened the race to replace the IDF chief to even more junior major-generals of the IDF high command ; some even thought of brigadier-generals . <p> However , to date , only top officials in IDF intelligence have resigned . Not a single political official has resigned over October 7 , nor military officials outside of intelligence or top Shin Bet ( Israel Security Agency ) officials . <p> Sources said this means the race will likely be a traditional race between the only two men who are serving or have served as deputy IDF chief : Zamir , and current Deputy IDF Chief Maj.-Gen . Amir Baram , as well as with a slightly weaker chance , Northern Commander Maj.-Gen . Uri Gordin . <p> Gordin has a storied career , and is being given significant credit for the campaign against Hezbollah , and has served in other high command positions , but has not yet been a deputy IDF chief . <p> Both Zamir and Baram have served in roles equal to what Gordin has , plus they have the extra position of deputy IDF chief over him , and Zamir also has his current defense ministry position over both of them . <p> Other outside shots could be former major generals like Nitzan Alon , who has run the war 's hostage rescue and negotiation efforts for the IDF , or even having a former IDF chief temporarily return . <p> But many other top IDF officials in one way or another are implicated by October 7 , so the list of possibles is not as long as one might think . <p> " It is not clear that there will be tolerance , " for such more creative approaches , said sources . <p> Further , the last race was limited to three top major general candidates , and the competition is usually limited to the very small number of top officers who have held both top field command and top headquarters positions . <p> Possibly the only matter that could derail Zamir is the fact that he was also a Southern Command chief , which could allow some to try to tar him with the October 7 failure . <p> However , Zamir was in that position from 2015 to 2018 -- five years before the invasion -- and with three other Southern commanders coming after him , separating him from the failure . <p> Sources further noted that when Zamir left the position of deputy IDF chief , he warned that the military was too small to handle its full defense roles and that the infantry was too small within the military . <p> Sources said , " We saw parts of this and the results on October 7 " when only 600 soldiers were guarding the border with Gaza from an onslaught of 6,000 Hamas and other terrorist invaders . <p> Gordin may also be appointed the next deputy IDF chief to replace Baram , who might become the next IDF chief after Zamir . <p> Outgoing Land Forces Command Maj.-Gen . Tamir Yadai could also become the next deputy IDF chief , though for now , he is retiring from the military . 
@@118422925 <h> The military noted that troops had carried out precise raids in the area . <p> IDF troops of the 99th Division killed seven Hamas terrorists involved in the October 7 massacre , the military said on Tuesday . <p> Nukhba terrorist Abd Alrazak , who was also an engineering operative in the center of the Gaza Strip , was eliminated along with Marzuk Alhur , who was a Hamas terrorist who infiltrated southern Israel on October 7 . <h> A reserve officer noted , " Hezbollah terrorists will be back at the border soon , and they 'll do it in different forms . <p> By AMIR BOHBOT Hezbollah members marching with flags during ceremony. ( photo credit : Wikimedia Commons ) <p> IDF officers from the Northern Command criticized the IDF on Tuesday for not utilizing the opportunity given to it in the ceasefire to patrol villages in southern Lebanon in order to dismantle terror networks and eliminate weapons caches in the area . <p> " On the first day , it worked , " said one Northern Command officer . " Patrols began , and we detained Hezbollah terrorists and Lebanese civilians . At least one individual came out of hiding . The others ? They moved from northern to southern Lebanon , exploiting the fact that the Lebanese Army had yet to set up checkpoints or simply bypassed those already in place . " <h> " Dad wo n't be able to stand with us tomorrow at the cemetery ; he wo n't be able to say goodbye to the woman who raised him and loved him all his life . " <p> The family of Hamas-held US citizen Keith Siegel announced the passing of his mother in a post on Facebook on Tuesday . <p> " My grandmother passed away yesterday morning . My father 's mother passed away , and my father could n't say goodbye to her because he had been a hostage by Hamas for over a year . My father was taken from his home by terrorists about twenty years old and is in dark tunnels , severe hunger , and emotional and physical abuse about an hour drive from Tel Aviv , " Keith 's daughter , Elan , said in the post . <h> Hezbollah mortars violate ceasefire * Hamas rocket shot down in South <p> IDF Capt . Omer Neutra , 21 , died on October 7 of last year , and his body was taken by Hamas to Gaza , the IDF confirmed on Monday.New intelligence that came to light allowed a special military commission of rabbis , scientists , and lawyers to finally confirm his death around 14 months later , despite long-standing suspicions that he was dead . <p> Neutra was a lone soldier from New York , serving as a tank platoon commander in the 77th Battalion of the 7th Brigade . 
@@118422928 <p> IDF troops of the 99th Division killed seven Hamas terrorists involved in the October 7 massacre , the military said on Tuesday . <p> Nukhba terrorist Abd Alrazak , who was also an engineering operative in the center of the Gaza Strip , was eliminated along with Marzuk Alhur , who was a Hamas terrorist who infiltrated southern Israel on October 7 . <p> The military also mentioned Ma'az Alhur , Abd Abu Awad Yusri , Omer Abu Abdallah , and Ma'ad Abu Garboa as Hamas terrorists who had participated in the October 7 massacre . <p> In addition , Nukhba terrorist Ahmed Zahad took part in the massacre , the IDF added . <p> The 179th and 551st Brigades conducted several targeted raids in the area , during which they dismantled Hamas military terror sites , including military structures , observation posts , and sniper positions . <p> Additionally , numerous weapons were located and dismantled , including grenades , arms , military vests , explosives , and mortars . 
@@118422929 <h> ' You are not alone ' : The shared pain of the US-Israel hostage crisis - editorial <p> Ronen and Orna Neutra , parents of US-Israeli citizen Omer Neutra held hostage in Gaza since October 7 attack by Hamas , speak on Day 3 of the Republican National Convention ( RNC ) , at the Fiserv Forum in Milwaukee , Wisconsin , US , July 17 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/JEENAH MOON ) <p> The heartbreak emanating from the Hamas attack on October 7 continues to create fresh wounds . <p> On Monday , the IDF announced the death of Capt . Omer Maxim Neutra , 21 . Until now , it had been believed that Neutra , a tank platoon commander in the 7th Armored Brigade 's 77th Battalion , was alive and being held hostage . However , according to the announcement , his body was abducted by Hamas along with members of his tank crew . <p> Neutra 's parents , Ronen and Orna , became high-profile advocates for their son and all of the hostages held in Gaza over the last 14 months , often speaking at public events and meeting top officials in Jerusalem and Washington . <p> The announcement of Netura 's death came two days after the dramatic release by Hamas of a propaganda video in which hostage Edan Alexander described the hell that he and his fellow hostages were living through and pleaded for their release . <p> Alexander , a Golani Brigade soldier stationed at Nirim near the Gaza border , was abducted by Hamas on October 7 . Besides being soldiers on active duty on that date , what unites the stories of Neutra and Alexander is that they were both American citizens -- lone soldiers who came to Israel by choice to serve in the army of the Jewish people . The mother of Israeli hostage Edan Alexander hugs an organizer at a pro-Israel rally , nearly one year after Hamas ' October 7 , 2023 attack in southern Israel , in the Manhattan borough of New York City , US October 6 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/Stephani Spindel ) <h> Before time runs out <p> Neutra , born in Manhattan and raised in Long Island , joined the IDF after spending a gap year in Israel . Born in Tel Aviv , Alexander grew up in Tenafly , New Jersey , and joined Golani after graduating high school in 2022 . <p> Five other US citizens are still unaccounted for and presumed to be held alive by Hamas . They are all symbols of the strong bond between Israel and the US and the values of freedom and democracy that they share . <p> As such , the Biden administration has gone above and beyond to push for their release and the release of all of the hostages . During this transition period ahead of the January 20 inauguration of President-elect Donald Trump , it 's imperative that the ball is not dropped and that both teams work in coordination to probe every possible avenue to secure a deal . <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's wife , Sara , emphasized that importance when she met with Trump on Sunday in Miami . She wrote on Instagram that she had " raised with the president the immense suffering our country has endured since October 7 and the inhumanity of the Hamas terrorists ... I emphasized the urgent need to act for their the hostages ' release and swift return . " <p> In his video message , Alexander called on Trump to " use your influence and the full power of the United States to negotiate for our freedom ... I do not want to end up dead like my fellow US citizen Hersh Goldberg-Polin -- who Hamas killed in September . " <p> Alexander 's father , Adi , speaking at a rally in New York on Sunday , appealed to both Biden and Trump , urging the former to negotiate a deal " before it 's too late " and advising Trump not to wait until taking office in January " to make an impact . " <p> To their credit , the US leaders seemed to have internalized that message . Adi Alexander said Trump 's team told him they were " shoulder-to-shoulder with the current administration to resolve the issue . " <p> US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan told CBS on Sunday that there had been good coordination between the Biden and Trump teams about " all aspects " of the Middle East crisis . <p> " This is how it should be in a transition . This is what we 're going to keep driving for every day that we have left in office , " he said . <p> These efforts are being made because Americans , like Israelis , cherish life and will go to extreme means to rescue their citizens . <p> The Post 's Hannah Sarisohn reported that Adi Alexander told the attendees of the Sunday rally that " the world is watching . To everyone listening -- friends , neighbors , Americans , and Israelis -- please amplify our voices and call on your leaders to secure a deal . Call on them to act now . We can not afford to wait , " he said as supporters chanted , " You are not alone ! " <p> With the US 's deep investment in securing all of the hostages ' release , Israel indeed knows that it 's not alone . 
@@118422930 <h> At the beginning of September , Feldstein attempted to leak the document 's contents to Israeli media in order to counter mass protests following the execution of hostages in Gaza . <p> Eli Feldstein , an IDF spokesman attends the funeral of Yehuda Dimentman , in Homesh , in the West Bank , on December 17 , 2021 ( photo credit : SRAYA DIAMANT/FLASH90 ) <p> There is a lack of direct evidence that Eli Feldstein intended to harm national security , Judge Alaa Masarwa said on Tuesday , saying there is a weakness in the evidence on this charge in the PMO leak scandal . <p> Feldstein , an aide to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , was charged with the disclosure of a classified piece of information , disclosure of a classified piece of information with the intent to harm national security , possession of a classified piece of information , and obstruction of justice . <p> On Tuesday , Feldstein confirmed his testimony , claiming that he had discussed intent of the document with the Prime MInister , days ahead of the leak . <p> He , and the military officer involved in the leak , were released to house arrest on Tuesday.The judge also came to the conclusion Tuesday that there is sufficient evidence at this stage regarding the offenses of disclosure of a classified piece of information and of spreading it in the media.The judge also said that Feldstein and the IDF NCO also implicated in the case have " claims worthy of being examined in the main case . " <h> Selective enforcement <p> In this regard , the judge said he would give some weight to the argument that there was selective enforcement in the choice to charge Feldstein , but not Jonatan Urich , an adviser to Netanyahu , who was questioned over the leak . <p> " The evidence in the case indicates the presence of numerous signs and warning signals that arose during the relevant period , which support the awareness of both respondents regarding the illegal actions they carried out , particularly their conduct after the publication in the German newspaper , " a summary of Tuesday 's ruling said.Feldstein 's father told Channel 13 that he was very happy to hear the judgment . <p> " After 12 years of serving in the army and giving himself for the sake of the country , it was n't easy for him as a young immigrant to join the army . Now that the judge has removed the clause about the concern of harming national security , I am happy , and it gives us a lot of strength , " he said.According to the indictment , which was filed on November 21 , an IDF NCO , whose name has not been published , sent a picture of a top-secret document to Feldstein in April , believing it to be imperative for the prime minister to receive it directly . <p> At the beginning of September , Feldstein attempted to leak the document 's contents to Israeli media to counter mass protests that broke out after six bodies of recently executed Israeli hostages were retrieved from Gaza.According to the indictment , after the IDF military censor explicitly prohibited its publication , Feldstein leaked it to a foreign media outlet . The document itself has not been published , but according to the September 6 report in the German Bild , it described Hamas 's negotiating strategy and mentioned the protests as something helping its cause . " This action was carried out with the knowledge of the defendant ... and was intended to influence Israeli public discourse regarding the handling of the hostage situation , " the indictment read . The act " severely endangered state security , " it read . At Feldstein 's request , the NCO later provided Feldstein with a physical copy of the document , as did others . 
@@118422934 <h> " It 's been very , very challenging for everyone to navigate their feelings because Omer grew up here , " the Midway Jewish Center President said . <p> More than a thousand of Omer Neutra 's family members , classmates , local Jewish community leaders , elected officials , and fellow congregants packed into the sanctuary of Midway Jewish Center in Syosset , New York , for a memorial service on Tuesday morning , just over 36 hours after the IDF confirmed that the tank commander was killed by Hamas on October 7 . His body has been held in Gaza since . <p> The Neutras were an intricate part of the congregation for many years before October 7 , and the tragedy really brought members of the community even closer , Midway Jewish Center president Tracy Slavsky told The Jerusalem Post . <p> " It 's been very , very challenging for everyone to navigate their feelings because Omer grew up here . He 's my daughter 's friend , " Slavsky said . " So it 's been very personal for a lot , a lot of people . Everyone understood that he is one of us . " <p> As a leader , Slavsky said it has been hard protecting the congregation emotionally as well as physically . <p> " I was really looking forward to the day of having a thousand people here , celebrating his return . Certainly not having to do it this way , " she said . " But I 'm hoping that because this has brought everyone closer together , that we 'll just continue to grow . Omer was an excellent role model , and he is truly our hero . You know , we 're very blessed . " Memorial service held in Syosset , NY , for Omer Neutra ( 23 ) of Plainview , NY , Israeli-American hostage announced to have been murdered during Oct 7 2023 terror attack ( credit : NY hostages and missing family forum ) <p> Incoming Democratic Rep. Laura Gillen , whose district sits just west of Neutra 's hometown of Plainview , said she attended Tuesday 's memorial service as a message to her constituents . <p> " It 's really important out of the gate to make sure my constituents know I stand firmly with Israel , " Gillen told the Post . " This horrible tragedy is the result of a terrorist attack by a group that is determined to destroy the State of Israel , and I believe the United States must stand firmly with Israel . " <p> Gillen said as the new representative for New York 's Fourth Congressional District , she will be a " fierce ally for Israel in Congress . " <h> United in support of Israel <p> Eric Post , the regional director for the American Jewish Committee ( AJC ) Long Island , said that Jewish institutions across Long Island have been united in support of Israel and in the fight to bring Neutra home . <p> " Today we are fighting to get Omer 's body back , to bring all the other 100 hostages home , and we wo n't stop until the day that happens , " Post said . <p> Post said AJC Long Island 's priority is clear in going wherever is needed to support the Neutras and other hostage families . <p> " I have two children , two young sons , " Post added . " If we can raise them with so many of the characteristics that Omer had , where my sons will go , I think will be in the right direction . " <p> Neutra 's classmates from the Schechter School of Long Island filed into the sanctuary almost an hour before the service started , embracing each other with tears . <p> " He was the sweetest of the sweet , the most social , the most friendly , every teacher in school loved him , and every student , " one of his classmates , Julia , told the Post . <p> She said the past 24 hours have been " just complete heartbreak . " <p> " You have so much hope . I was so sure I would see him again , " another classmate , Ariel , said . " It 's kind of the end of a chapter , of feeling like we 're in limbo . And the beginning of a chapter of mourning , what he 'll never have , and what we 'll never be able to share with him . " <p> Neutra 's class at Schechter was close , according to Ariel , and feeling a key piece of that missing " every second " has been gut-wrenching . <p> " I 'm comforted to know that he was n't suffering , that he 's not still suffering , but it is absolutely heartbreaking in every sense of the word , " Ariel said . <p> Ariel recalled that to make their classmates laugh , Neutra used to cry on demand and " was just the silliest . " He had no shame to be funny , to be ridiculous . He brought a smile to everyone 's face , " she said . " We could all use a lot of Omer right now , really . " <p> While Todd Richman , a co-chair of Democratic Majority for Israel , never met Neutra , he 's gotten to know Orna and Ronen , Neutra 's parents , well over the past 14 months . <p> Richman first met the Neutras on a trip to Israel last December and helped to facilitate numerous other political speaking arrangements . <p> " I 'm in complete awe of the entire family , " Richman said . " I know parents dedicate themselves to their children , but I 've never seen something like this before . Twenty-four/seven , there has n't been a day that they have rested . I keep telling people , it 's an unfortunate pleasure that I got to meet them . " <p> Richman said over the countless time he spent with Orna and Ronen , he learned Neutra was " beyond special " and a kid who could light up the room . <p> " A young man who was dedicated to his friends and his family , and someone that just exudes love and love for his people , " Richman said . " We should all only be blessed to have someone like Omer . " <p> Anti-Defamation League CEO Jonathan Greenblatt said he thinks Neutra knows how blessed he is to have a family of such extraordinary strength . <p> Orna and Ronen have shown a remarkable voice in unspeakable circumstances , he said . <p> " This shul , this family and this community , and Israel as a people , we 're going to be healing for a very long time , " Greenblatt said . " I do n't know that this wound will ever truly heal . There 's always going to be a hole in our heart , and there 's always going to be grief to the people that we lost on that day . " <p> The congregation 's Rabbi Joel Levenson described Omer , after the ceremony , as " a real shining star " and " one of a kind . " <p> He said he could n't think of anyone who more lived the values that Jewish leaders seek to infuse into kids about the love of the Jewish people and Israel . <p> Levenson said he was amazed to hear Orna and Ronen express deep appreciation as parents for having a son like Omer . <p> " That sends a message to all the parents who are here and those watching to be thankful for our children , " he said . <p> " Mindful that life is precious and we never know what tomorrow may bring . " 
@@118422935 <h> Israeli farmer whose son was killed by Lebanon rocket works to restore orchard <h> " I came and saw the worst thing possible to see , " Weinstein said . <p> By REUTERS DECEMBER 3 , 2024 14:32 <p> Moshe Weinstein , 76 , an Israeli farmer touches the ladder , used by his son Omer at the site of his killing by shrapnel from a rocket launched from Lebanon , at his apple farm in Metula , northern Israel , December 1 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/STOYAN NENOV ) <p> Five weeks ago , Moshe Weinstein found the body of his son Omer and four farm workers killed by a Hezbollah rocket , their bodies lying in an apple orchard that he has cultivated for years . <p> Weinstein , 75 , is back working his land , taking advantage of a ceasefire deal brokered last week between Israel and Hezbollah that is aimed at restoring calm to both sides of the border . But the horror will haunt him for the rest of his days . <p> " I came and saw the worst thing possible to see , " he told Reuters . <p> He had been elsewhere on the farm when the sirens went off on Oct. 31 , warning of incoming fire from Lebanon . Shortly afterward , an explosion shook the air . By the time he reached his son there was nothing to be done . Four Thai workers were also killed outright , while a fifth survived the blast . <p> " They were not supposed to be here harvesting on that day , " he said , recalling how Omer had taken his team into the orchard only because a client had asked for the sweet Pink Lady apples that grew in that section of his farm . Workers carry ladders at the farm of Israeli farmer Moshe Weinstein , 76 , who lost his son in a rocket attack from Lebanon , in Metula , northern Israel , December 1 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/STOYAN NENOV ) <p> " The strike was there in the well , the tractor stood here with the cart , " he said , reliving the scene . <p> Weinstein 's family business lies close to Metulla , Israel 's northernmost town , which was repeatedly targeted by Hezbollah rockets over the past 14 months as part of the Iranian-backed group 's campaign to support its Palestinian ally Hamas . <h> The beginning of escalations <p> Hezbollah began rocketing Israel across the border in solidarity with Hamas the day after the Palestinian terrorist group 's Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack on Israeli communities that precipitated war in the Gaza Strip . <p> In September this year , Israel stepped up its campaign against Hezbollah , launching an air and ground assault it said was necessary to disarm Hezbollah so that tens of thousands of Israelis could return safely to northern communities . <p> " We are the ones holding the borders , 100 meters away , we are the final tree on the border , " Weinstein said . <p> Like most locals , the Weinsteins evacuated from their home , but were allowed back during the day to tend their crops , taking precautions to limit the danger such as never traveling together in the same car . <p> " We were able to work . We were granted entry to some areas and not to others , " he said . " I did n't think there was a 1% chance that one of us would be hurt , but actually , Omer paid the price . " <p> Hezbollah strikes killed 45 civilians in northern Israel and the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights over the past 14 months . At least 3,768 people were killed in Israel 's retaliatory assault on Lebanon , according to Lebanon 's health ministry which does not differentiate between Hezbollah fighters and civilians . <p> Israel and Hezbollah finally agreed last week to a truce aimed at establishing lasting peace after decades of tensions . But Weinstein , who has lived through three major Lebanon conflicts , has his doubts that the guns would stay silent . 
@@118425330 <h> Funeral services for Omer Neutra were held Monday at Temple Chaverim in Syosset <p> A memorial service was held on Long Island Tuesday for an Israeli American soldier from New York who was believed to have been taken hostage alive on Oct. 7 , 2023 , and is now presumed to have been killed during Hamas ' attack and his body taken into Gaza , according to the Israel military . <p> Omer Neutra was a Long Island native who enlisted in the Israeli military and was captured when Hamas attacked southern Israel . Neutra 's parents , Ronen and Orna , led a public campaign while he was thought to be alive for their son 's freedom . They spoke at protests in the U.S. and Israel , addressed the Republican National Convention this year and kept up ties with the Biden administration in their crusade to secure their son 's release . <p> The Israeli military announced Monday it had determined the 21-year-old was not taken alive by Hamas but was killed during the group 's surprise attack on the Nova Music Festival that sparked the latest conflict in the Middle East . His body was then taken into the Palestinian territory of Gaza , where it remains . <p> Neutra 's family had held out hope he was still alive after being ambushed and pulled out of his disabled tank while trying to defend Israel 's border from Hamas forces . <p> In the statement announcing his death , the military did not say how it came to the conclusion over Neutra 's fate . But Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his wife , Sara Netanyahu , said in a joint statement that he " fought fiercely at the head of his soldiers " to defend Israeli settlements " until he fell . " <p> They added that they " will not rest or be silent " until his body is recovered from the Palestinian territory of Gaza . <p> After spending months telling his son 's story and pleading for his release at numerous rallies in the U.S. and abroad , news of his death " left us breathless and empty , " he said . <p> " For over a year now , we 've been breathing life into your being , my beautiful boy , " Orna Neutra , Omer 's mother , said through tears . " With the hope and love of so many , we kept going and going and going , keeping you alive , speaking your name from every outlet , pushing any hint of despair , not stopping to breathe or to take in the deep pain of your absence . " <p> " Now things are clear , " she told the packed service at the Midway Jewish Center in Syosset . " But not as we 'd hoped . " <p> Neutra 's family said in a statement on Monday that they have spent the last 423 days living through an " unimaginable nightmare . " <p> Daniel Neutra , Omer 's younger brother , vowed the family would continue to honor his life 's work by continuing to call for the release of the remaining hostages and an end to the war . <p> " It is too late for him , but it was not in vain , " he said . <p> Ronen Neutra called Israel his son 's " true love " and said he had insisted on serving on the frontline . His unit was among the first to respond to Hamas ' Oct. 7 attack . <p> " You gave too much , too soon , " Orna Neutra said . <p> Neutra was born in Manhattan a month after the Sept. 11 , 2001 , attacks . The grandson of Holocaust survivors , he attended Schechter School , a conservative Jewish school on Long Island where he was captain of the basketball , soccer and volleyball teams . His parents have said he was offered admission to the State University of New York at Binghamton , but instead deferred , took a gap year and then moved to Israel to enlist in the army . <p> New York Gov . Kathy Hochul was among the lawmakers in attendance at Tuesday 's memorial service . <p> " A sad day for us all , " she said as she entered the synagogue . <p> Biden and first lady Jill Biden said in a statement Monday they were " devastated and outraged " to learn of Neutra 's death . They said he planned to return to college in the U.S. and " dreamed of dedicating himself to building peace . " <p> " To all the families of those still held hostage : We see you . We are with you . And I will not stop working to bring your loved ones back home where they belong , " the statement reads . <p> Funeral services for Neutra were held Monday at Temple Chaverim in Syosset . <p> Hochul ordered flags lowered to half-mast on the day of Neutra 's funeral . The governor expressed grief and outrage on Monday , saying " as a parent , I ca n't imagine what they 're going through today . " <p> As recently as Sunday , Neutra 's parents had been urging world leaders to win the hostages ' release , including at a rally in Central Park . He was one of seven American Israelis still held in Gaza , four of whom are now said to be dead . Hamas released a video of one , Edan Alexander , over the weekend , indicating he was still alive . <p> Hamas had released hostage video of Alexander , who was serving in the Israeli military when he was taken by Hamas to Gaza . Filmed under apparent duress , Alexander called on Trump to work to negotiate for his freedom and that of the remaining Hamas hostages . <p> Hamas is still holding around 100 hostages inside Gaza , at least a third of whom are believed to be dead . The Biden administration says it is making another last-ditch push for a ceasefire and the release of the remaining hostages , after nearly a year of indirect negotiations between Israel and Hamas repeatedly stalled . <p> Diplomats see a potential opening after last week 's ceasefire between Israel and Lebanon 's Hezbollah militant group , an ally of Hamas that began launching rocket attacks and trading fire with Israel the day after the Oct. 2023 attack . <p> The fragile ceasefire has held despite repeated Israeli strikes that have angered Lebanese officials but not yet triggered a response from Hezbollah . Israel says it has acted to thwart potential attacks . <p> In late summer , Hamas killed Hersh Goldberg-Polin , another prominent Israeli American hostage , along with five other captives , whose bodies the Israeli military recovered . <p> The war in Gaza began when Hamas-led militants stormed into southern Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and taking around 250 hostage . Some 100 captives are still held inside Gaza , around two-thirds believed to be alive . <p> In a post on his Truth Social site , Trump called for Palestinian militants to free all of the roughly 100 Israeli hostages still held inside Gaza , around two-thirds of whom are believed to be alive . <p> If not , Trump said , " Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America . RELEASE THE HOSTAGES NOW ! " <p> It was not immediately clear whether Trump was threatening to directly involve the U.S. military in Israel 's ongoing campaign against Hamas in Gaza . Trump allies have said he hopes there will be a ceasefire and hostage release deal before he returns to office early next year . <p> " Thank you and bless you Mr. President-elect @realDonaldTrump , " he wrote on X. " We all pray for the moment we see our sisters and brothers back home ! " <p> Israel 's ongoing retaliatory offensive has killed at least 44,429 Palestinians , more than half of them women and children , according to Gaza 's Health Ministry , which does not say how many of the dead were combatants . Israel says it has killed over 17,000 militants , without providing evidence . <p> The war has destroyed vast areas of the coastal enclave and displaced 90% of the population of 2.3 million , often multiple times . 
@@118426232 <h> Share this : <p> Parents Ronen Neutra ( L ) , and Orna Neutra ( R ) , along with their son Daniel Neutra ( C ) , speak at the Midway Jewish Center on Long Island during a memorial service for their son , Omer Neutra , a fallen Israeli American soldier on Dec. 3 , 2024 in Syosset , New York . ( Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images ) <p> SYOSSET , N.Y . ( AP ) -- For more than a year , Ronen and Orna Neutra have held out hope that their son Omer was alive after being captured by Hamas during its attack on Israel last Oct. 7 . <p> But Monday , the Israeli military acknowledged the painful truth : The 21-year-old , in fact , had not been taken hostage , but was killed in the group 's surprise attack on the Nova Music Festival that sparked the latest conflict in the Middle East . <p> An image of Omer Neutra is displayed at his memorial service Tuesday , Dec. 3 , 2024 , at the Midway Jewish Center in Syosset , N.Y . ( AP Photo/Philip Marcelo ) <p> Speaking at a memorial service Tuesday at the Long Island synagogue where his son celebrated his bar mitzvah years earlier , Ronen Neutra said he was at a loss for words . <p> After spending months telling his son 's story and pleading for his release at numerous rallies in the U.S. and abroad , news of Omer 's death " left us breathless and empty , " he said . <p> " For over a year now , we 've been breathing life into your being , my beautiful boy , " Orna Neutra , the young man 's mother , said through tears . " With the hope and love of so many , we kept going and going and going , keeping you alive , speaking your name from every outlet , pushing away any hint of despair , not stopping to breathe or to take in the deep pain of your absence . " <p> Orna and Ronen Neutra , the parents of Omer Neutra , speak at the Midway Jewish Center on Long Island during a memorial service for their son , a fallen Israeli American soldier , on December 3 , 2024 , in Syosset , N.Y . ( Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images ) <p> " Now things are clear , " she told the packed service at the Midway Jewish Center in Syosset . " But not as we 'd hoped . " <p> The couple have been a regular presence at protests in the U.S. and Israel . They also addressed the Republican National Convention this year and maintained contact with outgoing Democratic President Joe Biden 's administration in their effort to secure their son 's release . <p> Friends and family attend a memorial for Israeli tank commander Omer Neutra , who was a US citizen , in Syosset , N.Y. , on December 3 , 2024 . ( Photo by BRYAN R. SMITH/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> Daniel Neutra , Omer 's younger brother , vowed the family would continue to honor his sibling 's life 's work by continuing to call for the release of the remaining hostages and an end to the war . <p> " It is too late for him , " he said , " but it was not in vain . " <p> Omer Neutra was born in Manhattan just weeks after the Sept. 11 , 2001 , attacks , his parents recounted during the service , which was also attended by Gov . Kathy Hochul and other local politicians . <p> The grandson of Holocaust survivors , he attended a Jewish school on Long Island where he was captain of the basketball , soccer and volleyball teams , they said . <p> Family , friends , politicians and members of the local Jewish community gather at the Midway Jewish Center on Long Island for a memorial service for Israeli American soldier Omer Neutra on December 3 , 2024 in Syosset . ( Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images ) <p> Omer was offered admission to the State University of New York at Binghamton , but instead deferred , taking a gap year and then moving to Israel to enlist in the army . <p> Ronen Neutra called Israel his son 's " true love " and said Omer had insisted on serving on the front line . His unit was among the first to respond to Hamas ' Oct. 7 massive terrorist assault . <p> " You gave too much , too soon , " Orna Neutra said of her son . <p> Family , friends , politicians and members of the local Jewish community gather at the Midway Jewish Center on Long Island for a memorial service for Israeli American soldier Omer Neutra . ( Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images ) <p> But Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his wife , Sara Netanyahu , said in a joint statement that Omer " fought fiercely at the head of his soldiers " to defend Israeli settlements " until he fell . " <p> Family , friends , politicians , and members of the local Jewish community gathered for a memorial service for Israeli American soldier Omer Neutra on Long Island . ( Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images ) <p> They added that they " will not rest or be silent " until his body is recovered from the Palestinian territory of Gaza . <p> Biden and First Lady Jill Biden said in a statement Monday they were " devastated and outraged " to learn of Neutra 's death . They said the young Israeli American had planned to return to college in the U.S. and " dreamed of dedicating himself to building peace . " <p> " To all the families of those still held hostage : We see you . We are with you . And I will not stop working to bring your loved ones back home where they belong , " the statement reads . <p> New York Governor Kathy Hochul ( center ) attends a memorial service for Israeli tank commander Omer Neutra , who was a U.S. citizen , in Syosset , N.Y. , on Tuesday . ( Photo by BRYAN R. SMITH/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> Hamas-led fighters took around 250 hostages when they stormed into southern Israel last October , while killing around 1,200 people , mostly civilians . <p> Some 100 captives are still held inside Gaza , with around two-thirds believed to be alive . <p> Neutra was one of seven American Israelis still held in Gaza , four of whom are now said to be dead . Hamas released a video of one , Edan Alexander , over the weekend , indicating he was still alive . 
@@118426630 <p> An 8-year-old Palestinian boy from northern Gaza who lost a limb in the Israel-Hamas war arrived in Portland , Oregon , late Monday night as part of a group of children evacuated from Gaza to receive medical treatment in the U.S. <p> Nasser was wounded after an explosion in May destroyed his family 's home in Jabalia , killing his two sisters . Nasser and his mother survived , but he had to have his hand amputated , and she had to have her leg amputated , according to the Palestine Children 's Relief Fund , a nonprofit that helped organize their evacuation to the U.S. <p> Dozens of people , including volunteers with the nonprofit 's local chapter , greeted Nasser and his mother Marwa with cheers , flowers , welcome signs and gifts as they entered into the arrivals terminal in wheelchairs . <p> Nasser , 8 , right , and his mother Marwa Nasser Abdelfattah Abu Zaidah , third right , are greeted as they arrive at the Portland International Airport on Monday , Dec. 2 , 2024 , in Portland , Ore . ( AP Photo/Jenny Kane ) AP <p> " I 'm very humbled by all of these people coming to support Nasser , because he needs to know that he was not forgotten , " said Intesar Amirkani , president of the nonprofit 's Portland chapter . <p> Nasser , who will be treated at Shriners Children 's Hospital in Portland , was among the eight children from Gaza most recently evacuated by the nonprofit to receive medical care in the U.S. The group has helped organize previous medical evacuations for children from Gaza to the U.S. and other countries . <p> The war in Gaza began when Hamas-led militants stormed into southern Israel , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and taking around 250 people hostage on Oct. 7 , 2023 . Some 100 are still held inside Gaza , around two-thirds believed to be alive . <p> Israel 's retaliatory offensive has killed at least 44,000 Palestinians , more than half of them women and children , according to Gaza 's Health Ministry , which is part of the Hamas-run government and does not say how many of the dead were combatants . <p> The war has destroyed vast areas of the coastal enclave . The United Nations estimates that 90% of Gaza 's population has been displaced , often multiple times . <p> -- The Associated Press <p> If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site , we may receive compensation . By using this site , you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks , interactions , and personal information may be collected , recorded , and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy . 
@@118428827 <p> CAIRO ( AP ) -- Palestinian officials say Fatah and Hamas are closing in on an agreement to appoint a committee of politically independent technocrats to administer the Gaza Strip after the war . It would effectively end Hamas ' rule and could help advance ceasefire talks with Israel . <p> The rival factions have made several failed attempts to reconcile since Hamas seized power in Gaza in 2007 . Israel has meanwhile ruled out any postwar role in Gaza for either Hamas or Fatah , which dominates the Western-backed Palestinian Authority . <p> Hamas has been designated as a terrorist organization by the United States , Canada and the European Union . <p> A Palestinian Authority official on Tuesday confirmed that a preliminary agreement had been reached following weeks of negotiations in Cairo . The official said the committee would have 12-15 members , most of them from Gaza . <p> It would report to the Palestinian Authority , which is headquartered in the Israeli-occupied West Bank , and work with local and international parties to facilitate humanitarian assistance and reconstruction . <p> A Hamas official said that Hamas and Fatah had agreed on the general terms but were still negotiating over some details and the individuals who would serve on the committee . The official said an agreement would be announced after a meeting of all Palestinian factions in Cairo , without providing a timeline . <p> Both officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to brief media on the talks . There was no immediate comment from Israel . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has vowed to continue the war until Hamas is dismantled and scores of hostages are returned . He says Israel will maintain open-ended security control over Gaza , with civilian affairs administered by local Palestinians unaffiliated with the Palestinian Authority or Hamas . <p> No Palestinians have publicly volunteered for such a role , and Hamas has threatened anyone who cooperates with the Israeli military . <p> The United States has called for a revitalized Palestinian Authority to govern both the West Bank and Gaza ahead of eventual statehood . The Israeli government , which is opposed to Palestinian statehood , is reportedly discussing a postwar plan with the United Arab Emirates , which normalized relations with Israel in 2020 and backs a rival Fatah faction . <p> The Hamas official said the emerging Palestinian agreement would fulfill one of Israel 's war goals by ending Hamas ' rule in Gaza . It 's unclear if Israeli officials would see it that way . <p> The Palestinian Authority , which administers parts of the occupied West Bank , recognizes Israel and cooperates with it on security matters , a policy that is deeply unpopular among Palestinians , many of whom view it as a subcontractor of the occupation . Israel says the authority has not done enough to combat militancy or curb incitement . <p> The committee would assume its responsibilities after a ceasefire agreement with Israel , the Hamas official said . American and Arab mediators have spent nearly a year trying to broker such an agreement , but the negotiations have repeatedly stalled . <p> Hamas ignited the war with its Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack into Israel , in which Palestinian militants killed some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and abducted around 250 . Some 100 hostages remain inside Gaza , at least a third of whom are dead . <p> Israel 's retaliatory offensive has killed over 44,000 Palestinians , mostly women and children , according to local health authorities , who do not say how many of the dead were combatants . The offensive has leveled much of the coastal territory and displaced the vast majority of its 2.3 million residents . 
@@118454724 <p> On Tuesday , a memorial service was held for Omer Neutra , the Israeli-American soldier from Plainview who was killed in the Hamas attack on Oct. 7 . NewsdayTV 's Ken Buffa reports . Credit : Newsday/Howard Schnapp <p> In the Syosset synagogue where , almost a decade ago , Omer Neutra became a bar mitzvah , he was mourned Tuesday . <p> The 21-year-old Plainview native 's mother , father and brother were there , along with people he 'd gone to school with since kindergarten , the governor , the Nassau County executive and about 700 others . <p> It was a memorial service , not a funeral , because the young Israeli-American soldier 's body has not been recovered . It is still being held somewhere in Gaza by the Hamas militants who killed him , Israeli military officials said this week . Citing unspecified intelligence , they said Neutra was not kidnapped in the Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack on Israel and held hostage , as was once thought , but had been killed that day . <h> A plea for life <p> " Now things are clear , but not as we hoped , and your void , a big hole in my stomach , " Orna Neutra , Omer 's mother , told the crowd at the Midway Jewish Center . <h> WHAT NEWSDAY FOUND <p> A crowd of nearly 700 gathered at a Syosset synagogue Tuesday to remember Omer Neutra , the Plainview native and IDF member killed in the Oct. 7 , 2023 , Hamas attack on Israel . <p> Citing unspecified intelligence , the Israeli Defense Forces said Neutra was not kidnapped in the Oct. 7 attack and held hostage , as was once thought , but had been killed that day . <p> At the service , his parents pushed Israeli and U.S. leaders to ensure the remaining hostages return . <p> " I plead for a sign of life , " she said . " I did n't get any . Instead we received , on a daily basis , for over 423 days , signs of hope and love " from friends and neighbors . <p> Sign up for the Nassau news this week newsletter <p> The biggest news , politics and crime stories in Nassau County , in your inbox every Friday at noon . <p> In an interview , a friend of Omer Neutra 's , Moris Goldstein , 23 , of Roslyn , said they 'd both attended Schechter School of Long Island , a Jewish day school in Williston Park , and played together on a soccer team and volleyball team . <p> " We all miss him , " Goldstein said . <p> Another school friend , Sara Blau , of Murray Hill , Manhattan , who works in real estate services at a bank , said in an interview that she and Omer had both gone to Israel after high school . <p> " We all love Israel , want to protect our country , and he was doing it on the front lines , " Blau said . " We understood why he was doing it . " <p> After the attack , a friend called her : " ' No one 's heard from Omer . ' There was a moment of shock and disbelief , and from there on out , until two days ago , we had no idea what had happened to him . " <h> Near the Gaza border <p> Omer Neutra , serving near the Gaza border , was among the first soldiers to respond to the attack , his family said Tuesday . Video footage appears to show the tank he was in that day getting hit by a rocket-propelled grenade , Midway Rabbi Joel Levenson said in an interview after the service . <p> " It is believed he was killed and his body was taken , " Levenson said . <p> Of the roughly 100 hostages thought to be still in Gaza , Israel estimates two-thirds are alive . The Neutras , who in the last year have raised their son 's case at the White House and at the Republican National Convention , have repeatedly and publicly pushed Israeli and U.S. leaders to ensure the hostages ' return , and did so again at Tuesday 's service . <p> " It is too late for us , " said Daniel Neutra , wearing his older brother 's jacket . But " there are about 50 families like ours who still have hope . Their loved ones can still be saved . Every march , every rally , every trip to Washington or Jerusalem to plead for Omer 's rescue -- it 's all too late for him , but it was not in vain . " <p> In remarks at Tuesday 's service , Omer Neutra 's family and friends described a sports-loving , video-game playing youth who graduated in 2019 from the Schechter School , then postponed college to enlist in the Israeli Defense Forces . <p> The boy they remembered crawled into a bush to retrieve a ball and got poison ivy on his face . He called home to reassure his parents after a basketball game where he got a cut over his eye . <p> He was older when he explained to his father , Ronen Neutra , his decision to enlist : " How can I go back to college when all my friends are about to serve the country ? " his father recalled . <h> ' Blessed ' parents <p> When Daniel Neutra talked to his brother for the last time , not long before the attack , Omer told him " things were heating up on the border but higher-ups said he and his soldiers did n't need to worry , things were calming down . " <p> When the family believed Omer Neutra had been kidnapped , they started a 14-month sprint , Ronen Neutra told the crowd : " back to Israel ; Washington , D.C. ; Doha , Qatar ; London ; Chicago , " telling Omer 's story to elected leaders , at rallies , to anyone who would listen . <p> Now , Ronen Neutra wondered : " How do you speak about your son that you 've been fighting for 14 months , hoping , praying that he survived ... And then one moment , one knock on the door , and it 's all over , you have to internalize that you will never see him again ? " <p> Then Ronen Neutra , as his wife had also done , spoke before the crowd directly to their dead boy . <p> " We were blessed to be chosen to be your parents , " he said . " We love you and miss you every single day . " 
@@118454735 <p> Omer Neutra played basketball , soccer and volleyball . He made a " delicious " hummus . He and his brother , Daniel , would battle in video games like NBA2K and board games like Settlers of Catan . He could be quite serious -- and absurdly " goofy . " <p> He was a son , brother and friend , who grew up in Plainview . <p> But in the last 14 months , Omer became much more . His is the face and name so many on Long Island now associate with the tragic events of Oct. 7 , 2023 , the day when Hamas terrorists attacked Israel , killing more than 1,200 people and taking more than 200 hostage . <p> For 423 days , Omer 's family and friends clung to the belief he was among those held in Gaza , that he was alive , that he would come home soon . It was Omer 's smile we saw on posters plastered on store windows and telephone poles . It was his parents , Orna and Ronen , who traveled the world to talk about their son , to relentlessly beg those in power to bring him -- and the other hostages -- home . It was for Omer , and so many others , that people across Long Island and beyond rallied and prayed . <p> Sunday night , Orna and Ronen learned their son was killed in the Oct. 7 attacks and his body brought into Gaza , where it remains . After more than a year of hoping and pleading , of waiting for a sign Omer was alive , we all learned no such sign would come . <p> Sign up for The Point Newsletter <p> From our Editorial Board , get inside the local , city and state political scenes . <p> While at the Republican National Convention in Milwaukee this summer , I had the chance to hear from Orna and Ronen as they desperately tried to convey their message to anyone who would listen . I saw them cling to hope , as fear hung overhead . " Time is running out , " Ronen said . <p> Omer was killed at age 21 , just a week before his birthday . He initially went to Israel for a gap year before college , deferring his acceptance to SUNY Binghamton . Then , he stayed , enlisting in the Israeli Defense Forces , wanting to help the land he loved . There , he commanded a tank near Gaza , defending his country against Hamas ' invasion . There , Hamas killed him . <p> Traditionally , Jewish families mourn and bury their loved ones as quickly as possible . Omer 's parents had to wait 14 long months -- and a burial still is n't possible . Yet , family , friends and hundreds who came to know Omer only after he was gone gathered at Syosset 's Midway Jewish Center Tuesday to pray and remember . <p> The tragedy of losing someone so young in all and any circumstances always hits hard . <p> " No 23-year-old should ever have to stand in front of you and eulogize his childhood friend , " one friend said from the synagogue 's podium . <p> While his name is now known across the world , while his face has become a symbol of terror and loss , Omer was also like any other 21-year-old young man , with his whole life ahead of him . Friends recalled Omer 's smile , his laugh , his good nature , his desire to win at any game or sport . A classmate remembered an " outlandish " banana costume he wore in fifth grade . Omer 's brother , Daniel , recalled their " bro talk , " when the two would chat " about everything " after their parents had gone to sleep . HIs mother told of how small she felt in her 6 " 2 ' son 's " powerful hugs . " <p> Yet , each also noted how Omer , even now , can serve a larger purpose , as an inspiration , a symbol of hope and courage , a story that has , as Daniel said , " uplifted the story of our people . " 
@@118454827 <h> A Conversation With Beirut 's Wartime College President <p> A week after the Israel-Lebanon ceasefire , the president of the American University of Beirut talked with Inside Higher Ed about guiding the institution through conflict and preserving democratic values in the face of terror . <p> Displaced Lebanese huddle in front of the American University of Beirut 's medical center on Nov. 26 , the night of the ceasefire with Israel . <p> Ed Ram/Getty Images <p> When Israel and Hezbollah brokered a ceasefire agreement last week , Dr. Fadlo Khuri breathed a sigh of relief . But he 's not resting easy . <p> The American University of Beirut , where Khuri is president , had started its fall semester in crisis . In the wake of Israel 's invasion of Lebanon in June , months of bombings and reprisals threw the capital into chaos , killing thousands and displacing many more . <p> Khuri , who has led AUB since 2016 , is used to conflict ; he 's seen the institution through a financial collapse , a short-lived revolution and a pandemic . But the extent of the violence over the past few months shocked him . Two AUB students and a staff member were killed by Israeli bombs . Resounding explosives provided a soundtrack to campus life when classes were n't canceled . Displaced civilians set up tent encampments around the university , unsure where else to turn . <h> Most Popular <p> When Khuri spoke with Inside Higher Ed on Monday , he 'd just returned from an international trip to cement partnerships with universities in the U.K. , U.S. and Australia , in case worsening violence forced students to finish their semester elsewhere . After the ceasefire , Khuri said he hopes for a " prolonged period of peace and quiet . " But he knows there have n't been many of those in the university 's modern history . <p> AUB presidents have been kidnapped and assassinated . The 150-plus-year-old university has survived civil wars , refugee crises , countless bombardments and conflicts with neighboring Israel -- even the collapse of the Ottoman Empire . Khuri said the past year has been one of the most difficult in the institution 's history ; he 's sure it will survive this , too . <p> " My perspective is , you ca n't just manage the crisis of the moment . You 've got to plan what you 're going to do down the line to overcome those losses and rebuild , " he said . " People want to rise to the occasion , rally to the crisis . But they always need to see the next horizon . " <p> Khuri 's conversation with Inside Higher Ed , edited for length and clarity , is below . <p> Q : What have the past few months been like on the ground at AUB ? <p> A : For the first several weeks , none of the strikes were that close to AUB . But that changed in November ; for example , when they assassinated former Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah , that was loud enough for us to hear . We had one student killed , one recent graduate killed , two staff killed and two students seriously injured . So we had tragic losses . <p> It was a very abnormal period for everyone . Classes were stop-and-go . We did a survey , and 90 percent of students felt there had been a major disruption in their ability to study , whether it was their concentration being interrupted , they were displaced , they did n't have reliable internet , they were stressed because of their family . That 's a pretty high number . <p> There 's also the chaos of the city . The number of displaced people in Beirut grew from a few hundred thousand to 1.5 million . The university was surrounded by people who were displaced , who started to camp outside the university 's doors . One day , we had some folks encroaching on the university 's gates to a point where we could n't function . Even though the government had found housing for them , they decided to put up tents next to the university , possibly because they thought we would n't get hit . <p> Meanwhile , we were trying to find accommodations for our own community . We were able to rent some facilities , make agreements with NGOs and partners . We cleared out off-campus dorms so we could house our staff . The goal was to not lose the semester , because the semester gives some hope . Even if students are stressed about an exam , they want to know there 's something to look forward to other than the next bombing . <p> I do n't have any surveys done since hostilities ceased . But our latest data , which is probably no more than two weeks old , says more than 50 percent of students were displaced -- not all of them because of their homes being hit , but many of them because of the safety situation in the country . And about 45 percent of the faculty and staff had either moved or were hosting multiple family members . Anytime you have numbers like that , it 's a major challenge . It 's hard to know how many more students will need financial aid , but it 's clearly going to be a significant increase . So it 's been a challenge from the educational perspective and the student perspective , but also from a financial perspective . <p> Q : Is that why you were on a fundraising trip ? <p> A : Yes , to raise additional resources to be able to offset some of that , especially for financial aid . Because some people who needed some financial aid may need more , and others who did n't need any might need total financial aid . We pride ourselves on the fact that we have n't let kids drop out for purely economic reasons . But last year , we had 89 percent of our students getting some financial aid ; 22 percent of those received full financial aid and another 67 percent averaged about half tuition . Any more is obviously not affordable for us . We 're the largest private employer in Lebanon , and we were approaching some equipoise when all of this happened . So we 're still trying to figure out what people need to get the students through , to get the faculty and staff paid without having to cut into their income . <p> I met with eight university and higher ed institution leaders in England , Ireland , Scotland , both U.S. coasts , Australia . I wanted a plan for our students in case we could not finish the semester or could n't start the next semester . We did raise some funds . We talked to foundations and other partners . But we 're not just fundraising , we 're also friend-raising : raising awareness of the precariousness of our situation . At the time , we had no clue there would be a ceasefire anytime soon ; our thinking was , based on the U.S. elections , they would n't get to it until the spring . <p> Q : Tell me about the efforts of AUB 's Center for Civic Engagement and Community Service . <p> A : We 're encouraging students not just to come here and go to class and go home and study and take the tests , but to really be a part of the community . This is something that took off in 2006 after Lebanon was caught in the middle of the Israel-Hezbollah war that lasted 35 days . Then you had the Syrian Civil War in 2011 , the uprising in 2019 , the port explosion in 2020 , the pandemic . So this is not the center 's first rodeo ; they have a lot of experience in doing things that are proactive . <p> Already , the CCECS is starting to study the needs of the community as we pick up the pieces . We have well over 1,200 students who are involved , asking how they can help communities all across the country , either in setting up temporary health or educational or sheltering facilities , or directing people where to go , or doing food drives or vaccination drives . It 's critical in this period to give people some agency so they do n't feel helpless . <p> Q : AUB 's hospital has also played a big role in helping the injured . Do you see that as part of the university 's community service ? <p> A : It 's very important to set that expectation , to give people a sense of agency , that we can do some good . We 've been doing that since 1917 , when the Ottoman Empire decided to close down AUB . It was Syrian Protestant College at the time , and Howard Bliss , who was the second president , convinced the Ottoman pasha for the region to reopen because of the importance of medical and dental care . He agreed after he saw that the hospital was neutral and helped everyone . And we have stuck to that tradition of treating everyone for 100-plus years . That 's part of the special trust that the people of the entire region have for this institution . I 'm sure that if you ask people in Israel or Palestine or anywhere else in the Levant , if you had someone who was wounded , where would you want to go ? They would tell you , AUB 's medical center . <p> A : Yes . We see the Israeli Defense Forces targeting hospitals in Gaza ; Russia targets hospitals in the Ukraine . Unfortunately , what we 're seeing in this increasingly polarized world is health-care institutions , universities , childcare institutions are becoming less sacrosanct . So of course you 're worried . Still , and I do n't want to be arrogant to say this is a unique and special place , but we have had a tremendous residence for more than 100 years . And I do think that the political price that one would pay , whoever you are , for hitting this particular hospital or campus would be quite high . As long as we maintain our neutrality , that 's all we can do . <p> Q : How do you prepare the university to face a future in which it 's possible that this kind of conflict keeps happening more frequently ? <p> A : I think the only thing you can do is to tell people the truth . Fortunately , online teaching has moved up several notches since we first started dabbling in 2019 . Do n't take my word for it ; the faculty , deans , provost , even the students are saying the online courses we have are really quite superior . So far our applications for next year look quite healthy . They 're not quite as high as last year , and the component that 's down is the international students , which is not surprising . But there 's still time for them to apply , and I think if there 's this ceasefire and election of a president in the next couple of months , that will also pick up because it 'll be a harbinger of stability . But really , we have a world-class education , and we 're honest about the danger . We do n't want anyone risking their lives , but it 's not exactly the most stable country in the world and people know , for the most part , what they 're getting into . <p> AUB students protest the Israeli attacks on Palestine in May . <p> Fadel Itani/NurPhoto via Getty Images <p> Q : There are dozens of American Universities across the world , and new ones being established in volatile areas : in Kyiv , Ukraine ; in Kurdistan ; in Baghdad . Is the mission and power of these American-style institutions fading in places like Beirut ? Is it harder to run a university with the word " American " in the name ? <p> A : You have to be very honest and say , we 're very proud to be an American university . But we 're really about shared values -- secular , humanist , liberal values . Everyone has their own view ; that 's what the American university should be about . It should n't be about indoctrination . There are people with certain persuasions who love to portray us as the penetrating point of American foreign policy . But we do n't get our orders from the State Department or the White House ; we have boards , and ours is chartered in New York . The trustees can hire and fire me , but they do n't tell us what to do . <p> You have to be very clear about your messaging , and your best messengers , honestly , are your students and your faculty and your staff . They 're the ones who create this atmosphere where people feel they can express themselves , from the furthest-apart extremes of opinion , and then come together to talk ... real academic freedom , real freedom as well . That 's what we do . It 's uncomfortable for others . It can be uncomfortable for us , too . But it 's the right thing to do . 
@@118455436 <p> World News Live : Get real-time updates on international politics , economic changes , conflicts , and environmental issues . Access the latest breaking news and in-depth stories as they happen , keeping you informed of events shaping the world . <p> Latest news on December 4 , 2024 : Palestinians check the rubble of a destroyed building following an overnight Israeli strike in Deir al-Balah , Gaza Strip , Wednesday , Dec. 4 , 2024 . <p> World News Live : Welcome to our World News live blog , your go-to source for instant updates on major events across the globe . Whether it 's political shifts , economic trends , environmental crises , or international conflicts , we deliver real-time reports to keep you informed and engaged with the latest global developments . Disclaimer : This is an AI-generated live blog and has not been edited by Hindustan Times staff .... Read More 
@@118469836 <p> " If the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " he wrote on Truth Social . " Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America . RELEASE THE HOSTAGES NOW ! " <p> Trump 's pledge to hit Hamas " harder than anybody has been hit " is n't a break from the current strategy but a continuation of it . <p> Trump did n't mention Hamas by name , but it 's clear that this was an ultimatum to the group to release the remaining hostages it abducted in Israel during the Oct. 7 , 2023 , attacks . ( Israeli authorities estimate over 60 hostages taken in Israel remain in Gaza . ) <p> Trump sells himself as a great negotiator who pierces through the noise and gets things done with his business acumen and a willingness to act aggressively toward his opponents . But in this case -- as in so many others -- Trump 's rhetoric seems far from a groundbreaking strategy . It looks closer to his typical bluster . <p> Trump 's belligerent language is a reminder that he 'll likely lean into what some call " the madman theory of foreign policy " -- the idea unpredictability and an apparent willingness to use force aggressively can help a political leader intimidate his opponents and achieve his geopolitical goals . But it 's unlikely to be effective here . That 's because Trump 's pledge to hit Hamas " harder than anybody has been hit " is n't a break from the current strategy but a continuation of it . <p> While things can get worse -- Trump can encourage Israel to expend even more energy laying waste to Gaza -- it 's unclear how such a directive would bring Israel and Hamas closer to an elusive ceasefire and hostage deal . Hamas has demonstrated it is willing to tolerate massive military defeats and will bank on Israeli repression to help generate new recruits . That 's alreadyhappening . Hamas has also made clear that it 's indifferent to or eager to sacrifice massive amounts of civilian life in Gaza in order to achieve its political goals . There is no evidence that brutal repression is enough to compel it to give up on all of its demands at the negotiating table . <p> Moreover , the idea that Hamas is the only -- or the primary -- party that needs to be compelled to make concessions is misguided . Israelis have protested against Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu en masse because his administration has made it clear that getting the hostages released is n't his priority . Part of that can be explained by the reality that Netanyahu 's political survival -- and protection from looming corruption charges -- depends on the indefinite extension of the war . <p> Netanyahu has deliberately set vague criteria for the conditions for an end to his military operation : It 's unclear how and whether Hamas can ever be totally " destroyed . " That 's why former Gen. Benny Gantz quit Netanyahu 's war Cabinet in June , citing Netanyahu 's failure to commit to a clear postwar plan and saying Netanyahu stood in the way of a " real victory . " It 's why the Israel Defense Forces ' top spokesperson took the remarkable step of saying Netanyahu was " throwing sand in the eyes of the public " by promising that it was possible to completely destroy Hamas . " Hamas is an idea . Anyone who thinks we can eliminate Hamas is wrong , " he said in an interview with an Israeli broadcaster . <p> As Vox explained in a report in October , Israel 's demands have been " both evolving and abstract " : <p> Netanyahu reportedly torched a potential July ceasefire agreement with Hamas by insisting that Israeli troops maintain a permanent presence in Gaza , and that Israel would continue to have control of the Gaza/Egypt border . Those are much bigger -- and more unrealistic -- asks than previous demands for the return of Israeli hostages in Gaza , which is what the initial ceasefire conversations revolved around . <p> In other words , if Trump wants to be successful in getting the hostages released , he 's also going to need to persuade Netanyahu to stop playing games in committing to realistic terms for a proposal . <p> Trump 's threatening to rain hellfire on Hamas is n't going to alter the fundamental dynamics of the situation in Gaza . Trump might think it makes him sound like a madman who should n't be messed with . But implying that he might try to help brutalize Gaza is the most predictable thing a U.S. president could promise right now . <p> Zeeshan Aleem is a writer and editor for MSNBC Daily . Previously , he worked at Vox , HuffPost and Politico , and he has also been published in , among other places , The New York Times , The Atlantic , The Nation , and The Intercept . You can sign up for his free politics newsletter here . 
@@118474033 <p> DEIR AL-BALAH , Gaza Strip ( AP ) -- A Palestinian health official said Wednesday that at least 21 people were killed by an Israeli strike on a camp housing displaced people in Gaza . <p> Atif Al-Hout , the director of Nasser Hospital in the southern city of Khan Younis said 28 people were wounded . <p> The Israeli military said its aircraft struck senior Hamas fighters " involved in terrorist activities " in the area . The military said that the strike had set off secondary explosions , indicating explosives present in the area were set off . It was not possible to independently confirm the Israeli claims , and the strike could also have ignited fuel , cooking gas canisters or other materials in the camp . <p> Hamas has been designated as a terrorist organization by the United States , Canada and the European Union . <p> The strike in the Muwasi area , a sprawling coastal camp housing hundreds of thousands of displaced people , near the southern city of Khan Younis , came after Israeli forces struck targets in other areas of the Palestinian enclave . Earlier strikes on central Gaza killed eight people , including four children . <p> Israel 's war in Gaza began when Hamas-led terrorists attacked southern Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and abducting around 250 people . Some 100 hostages are still inside Gaza , at least a third of whom are believed to be dead . <p> Israel 's offensive has killed over 44,500 Palestinians in Gaza , mostly women and children , according to the Gaza Health Ministry , which does not say how many were combatants . The Israeli military says it has killed over 17,000 fighters , without providing evidence . <p> Israel says it tries to avoid harming civilians and blames Hamas for their deaths because the fighters often operate in residential areas and are known to position tunnels , rocket launchers and other infrastructure near homes , schools and mosques. 
@@118508926 <h> Streaming site Twitch is embroiled in controversy over creators ' content about its handling of Israel and Palestine <p> Twitch headquarters in San Francisco , California , on Friday , February 25 , 2022 . <p> David Paul Morris/Bloomberg/Getty Images <p> New YorkCNN -- <p> Creators on Twitch have waded into controversy over Israel 's war in Gaza in recent months , spooking advertisers and brands who have pulled away or otherwise admonished the Amazon-owned livestreaming platform . <p> JPMorgan Chase pulled out of Twitch advertising in the last couple of months , a source said , though it was part of a broader strategy of brand safety and worries about what content was showing up near their ads . Antisemitism allegations went into those considerations . <p> Chevron , a sponsor of Twitch 's semi-annual convention , TwitchCon , expressed disappointment with Twitch in a statement to CNN after controversial comments were made during a TwitchCon panel of Middle Eastern streamers . <p> At least two other companies , AT&amp;T and Dunkin ' Donuts , also pulled out of advertising on the platform , according to Bloomberg . Twitch told CNN it does not comment on advertisers . <p> The controversy at Twitch underscores how hard it is to deal with sensitive political topics that have become commonly discussed and shared on social media . <p> " There is no place on Twitch for racism , hatred , or harassment of any kind , including antisemitism and Islamophobia , " Twitch CEO Dan Clancy wrote in a November blog post , adding that Twitch works " hard to ensure that our community is a safe place . " <p> Rep. Ritchie Torres of New York wrote a letter to Twitch last month " concerning antisemitic and anti-American propaganda emanating from Hasan Piker , one of Twitch 's largest online streamers . " <p> In the letter , Torres wrote : " Mr. Piker has demonized Orthodox Jews as ' inbred ' and has dehumanized a Jewish man as a ' bloodthirsty pig dog . ' " Piker told NBC News last month that the videos cited in the letter were taken out of context and he was criticizing the Israeli government , not Jewish people . <p> " I 've been an outspoken advocate for Palestinian emancipation for the past 10 years , professionally in my media career , " he said in an interview with Wired in August . When asked about antisemitic allegations in an interview with CNN , he said : " Of course not . The real problem here is that I 'm anti-Zionist . The real problem here is that I 'm extremely critical of Israel . " <p> In a response to a Bloomberg journalist 's questions , he said " The goal of our campaign is simple : The CEO , Dan Clancy stepping down . " He also said " My ban from Twitch was ceremonial at best -- I was in the process of deleting my account when the ban went into place . " <p> Both have been suspended from Twitch for different reasons ; Saltman for harassment rules and Destiny for hateful conduct . Many of their fans online on forums such as Reddit want them reinstated . <p> Saltman claims his ban was likely to prevent him from speaking to other streamers about issues on the platform . <p> " When a major media company such as Twitch encourages , promotes and protects virulent antisemitism on its platform , it 's prudent for advertisers to be aware of what spaces they are supporting , " Saltman said in the letter . <p> However , critics allege the some of those campaigning against antisemitism are not acting in good faith . <p> Critics have accused Saltman , Destiny and their supporters or those associated with them of targeting and harassing female journalists and Twitch employees , actions that violate Twitch 's policy . <h> Controversy over streamers <p> Comments made at the " Ayyrabs Podcast " panel , hosted by Twitch partner and streamer Frogan at TwitchCon , are at the center of the controversy . The in-person event is dedicated to the platform , its creators and users and took place in September . <p> Twitch suspended those panelists , as well as separately an account for user Asmongold , after he made racist remarks about Palestinians . It was not specified to CNN how long each suspension was . <p> At the panel , when the panelists were ranking how " Arab " other streamers were , the lowest category on the board was " Loves Sabra . " Sabra , a hummus brand that was previously partially owned by Israeli food company The Strauss Group , was fully acquired by PepsiCo in November . Sabra is often part of pro-Palestinian boycotts . <p> The background of the panel featured logos from Chevron , Samsung and Capcom . <p> In a statement to CNN , Chevron said the " derogatory comments " made on stage were " deeply hurtful " and expressed disappointment in Twitch organizers . <p> " As an event sponsor , Chevron relied on conference organizers to exercise stringent oversight of presentations and content , and we are disappointed that such divisive rhetoric was allowed onstage , " a spokesperson said Wednesday . The company said it reviews its sponsorships and advertisements " periodically . " <p> A view of the opening ceremony stage at TwitchCon 2024 San Diego on September 20 , 2024 in San Diego , California . <p> Robin L Marshall/Getty Images <p> In October , the Anti-Defamation League ( ADL ) , a pro-Israel and Jewish advocacy group that works to combat anti-Semitism , said it spoke with Twitch staff a month after TwitchCon . <p> " Twitch must learn from this situation and improve how they address antisemitism and hate on their platform , which is an ongoing and significant challenge , " the ADL said in a statement on X. The ADL said it was not in touch with any advertisers . <p> One online commentator , Ethan Klein , who was featured on the board as someone who " Loves Sabra , " posted in a video alleging that the messaging of the panel was " kinda Arab good , Jew bad . " <p> On X , Frogan said she was banned from Twitch for 30 days , posting a screengrab citing " targeted hateful conduct . " <p> She also said the " habibi pass " list was a " meme tier list , " essentially equating it to an online joke in a format that 's popular online . ( " Habibi " is Arabic for beloved ; a " habibi pass " means someone who can use the word in line with its meaning . ) <p> " The whole basis of my podcast ayyrabs with capri and raff is that we are all arabs from different religious backgrounds - i am muslim , capri is christian , and raff is jewish , " she said , referring to the suspended hosts of the podcast who were also part of the panel . <p> In October , Frogan posted that her suspension was longer than user Asmongold , whose real name is Zack Hoyt . His main channel on Twitch is popular with 3.6 million followers . While Frogan 's comments , which were made with sponsors clearly displayed in the backdrop behind her , caused a 30 day ban , she said Hoyt 's tirade against Palestinians got two weeks . Twitch did not confirm the lengths of the suspensions . <p> Earlier this year , he called the victims of Israel 's military campaign , who number at least 44,502 according to the local health ministry , " terrible people " adding that they come from an " inferior culture . " <p> " If you want to consider it genocide as a systematic killing of a group of people , they have genocide built into Sharia law right now , " Asmongold said in the viral clip . " So no , I 'm not going to cry a f**king river when people who have genocide that 's baked into their laws are getting genocided . I do n't give a f**k . They 're terrible people . It 's not even a question . It 's crazy that people do n't see it that way . They 'd be doing the same thing . " <p> Asmongold later posted an apology on X in October , saying " Looking back on it , I was way too much of an a**hole about the Palestine thing . My bad . " In a follow-up video on YouTube , he said he " deserved " the repercussions and called his comments " disgusting . " <h> Updating its policy <p> Twitch said it enforces its policies evenly . <p> " Any and all content on Twitch must abide by our Community Guidelines , and we apply these rules objectively , to all of our creators . When we find content that breaks those rules , we take enforcement action , " the company said in a statement Wednesday . <p> In November , Twitch updated its hateful content policy to include the term " Zionist " when using it " to attack or demean another individual or group of people on the basis of their background or religious belief . " <p> The company acknowledged that Zionism refers to a political movement , and using the term in that context , whether in support or not , does not violate the policy . <p> That same month , Twitch also requested streamers to use a new label , " Politics and Sensitive Social Issues , " on topics relating to those issues . Those labels help users choose what they want to consume on the site , and also for brands to have more control over where their ads appear , Twitch said . <p> " Our goal is n't to stifle conversation about or criticism of an institution or ideology , but to prevent coded hate directed at individuals and groups of people , " the company said in the policy . <p> Most stock quote data provided by BATS . US market indices are shown in real time , except for the S&amp;P 500 which is refreshed every two minutes . All times are ET . Factset : FactSet Research Systems Inc . All rights reserved . Chicago Mercantile : Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors . All rights reserved . Dow Jones : The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated , distributed and marketed by DJI Opco , a subsidiary of S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&amp;P Opco , LLC and CNN . Standard &amp; Poor 's and S&amp;P are registered trademarks of Standard &amp; Poor 's Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC . All content of the Dow Jones branded indices Copyright S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices LLC and/or its affiliates . Fair value provided by IndexArb.com . Market holidays and trading hours provided by Copp Clark Limited . 
@@118513420 <h> " I have zero tolerance for antisemitism . It has absolutely no place in Australia , " Australia 's Prime Minister Anthony Albanese said . <p> A devastating fire ripped through the Adass Israel Synagogue in Ripponlea , Melbourne , early Friday morning , wounding two people and causing significant damage to the historic building . <p> The blaze , which the Australian police are investigating as suspicious , prompted a massive emergency response and has left the Jewish community in shock . <p> According to local reports , two individuals were wounded after two arsonists set it ablaze . <p> Australia 's Prime Minister Anthony Albanese condemned the arson , stating , " I have zero tolerance for antisemitism . It has absolutely no place in Australia . " <p> " The violence and intimidation and destruction at a place of worship is an outrage . This attack has risked lives and is clearly aimed at creating fear in the community , " he added . <p> Fire Rescue Victoria ( FRV ) crews were called to the scene around 4:10 a.m. , finding the single-story synagogue engulfed in flames . According to ABC News , 60 firefighters and 17 firetrucks worked tirelessly to bring the fire under control within an hour . Assistant Chief Fire Officer Brayden Sinnamon praised the firefighters ' efforts , noting that on the building and set it ablaze . " It was terrifying , " a witness told 7News , adding that the attackers fled immediately after igniting the fire . <p> The two suspects broke into the synagogue through a glass window and were seen setting fire to flammable material inside , an eye witness recounted . <p> Victoria Police have declared the site a crime scene , with the arson squad leading the investigation . Detective Darcy Sword told ABC Radio Melbourne that the cause of the fire is still undetermined , but authorities are treating it as suspicious . <p> The fire has disrupted the surrounding area , with the road closed temporarily and the nearby train level crossing blocked during the emergency response . A community advice warning was issued for smoke in neighboring suburbs , though the situation has since been brought under control . <p> Jewish community leaders expressed their deep concern over the incident . CCTV footage from the site has been handed over to police to aid the investigation , according to a Jewish leader present at the scene . " This is not just an attack on a building ; it 's an attack on a community , " the leader said . <p> The attack comes at a time of heightened tension , as Australia 's recent vote at the United Nations supporting a resolution calling for Israel to withdraw from the West Bank , Gaza , and East Jerusalem has sparked criticism from Israeli officials . Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu described the vote as " disappointing " and warned it could " invite more terrorism , " according to The Australian . <p> The fire has left the Adass Israel community and the broader Jewish population in Melbourne grappling with fear and uncertainty . Many are calling for increased security around synagogues and other Jewish institutions in light of this suspected arson . <h> ' Jewish blood must not be spilled in vain ' <p> Chairman of the World Zionist Organization Yaakov Hagoel responded to what he said was " the antisemitic attack on a synagogue in Melbourne , Australia . " <p> In a statement , Hagoel said , " Jewish blood must not be spilled in vain.The attack on a synagogue in Melbourne serves as a stark reminder of the escalating wave of antisemitism that has spread with alarming intensity across the globe since October 7 . " <p> Hagoel added , " It is imperative for world leaders to come together and take a resolute , uncompromising stand against all forms of antisemitism to ensure the safety and security of Jewish communities everywhere . " <p> " The firebombing of a synagogue in Melbourne appears to be another shocking escalation of the hate that we have seen brazenly displayed on the streets of Melbourne every week for over a year , " Jeremy Leibler , president of the Zionist Federation of Australia ( ZFA ) shared in an Instagram post . <p> " No one should be surprised ; this violent attack is a direct consequence of words turning into actions . Jew-hatred , left unchecked , endangers all Australians . Enough is enough ; this is a stain on our nation . It 's time for all levels of government to turn their words into actions to stamp out this Jew-hatred , " he added . 
@@118513421 <h> Doing what is needed : ' Post ' reporter on battling Hamas face-to-face in Gaza <p> ' We were ready to do what was needed . ' The ' Post 's ' Mike Starr has served two rounds of duty in Gaza since the October 7 Hamas attacks. ( photo credit : Courtesy ) <p> War is death and destruction . These horrors demand that if war must be fought , it must be fought until victory , lest these horrors be revisited . This was the thought that held in my mind as we crossed the border from Gaza into Israel , finishing our second tour of duty in the October 7 war . <p> We had arrived at night two months earlier . The bright moon illuminated the husks of buildings , casting pale shadows that danced along our armored truck as we navigated along the Netzarim Corridor . Each time we passed between the building shades , the moonlight glinted on a machine-gun barrel that slowly scanned our surroundings . The reconnaissance battalion soldier tightened his grip on the vehicle 's FN MAG emplacement , carefully watching the ruins through clouds of dust . <p> The brigade that we were replacing in positions along the vital security corridor had lost several soldiers to enemy attacks days before our arrival . We were alert to the dangers of ambushes , improvised explosive devices ( IEDs ) , and snipers , but were no strangers to such environments . The 8111 reservist battalion had been called up on October 7 when Hamas murdered , raped , and abducted its way through southern Israel . We had served in the ravaged Israeli towns for two months before finally entering the Gaza Strip for almost two more . <p> Helmeted heads rattled with each turn and bump in the road as we neared the buildings that would house the battalion . <p> There were fewer helmets than I had hoped . Not everyone returned home from the last tour , and not everyone returned for the second round in the war zone . The friction of life had peeled many away from the unit . They had civilian responsibilities as children were born , businesses faced crises , and families crumbled under the weight of the war . Others still nursed physical or psychological wounds from our previous deployment . ' The friction of life had peeled many away from the unit . ' The ' Post 's ' Mike Starr has served two rounds of duty in Gaza since the October 7 Hamas attacks . ( credit : Courtesy ) <p> For the rest of us , we largely had to settle our affairs ahead of our draft date . Surrendering one life to start the other was more difficult than crossing the border into Gaza , but once we had donned the olive green , we were ready to do what was needed . <p> The truck finally arrived at our new position . We unloaded our heavy bags and climbed the four stories into an apartment . We spent the night in complete darkness , peeking out at the unknown with night vision goggles and scopes through holes carved into the walls . The blankets and camouflage netting that covered the apartment 's windows , holes , and doorways stifled any light and airflow , turning the rooms into an oven . <p> After the first uncertain night , dawn revealed the landscape . We were positioned north of the security corridor , our salient jutting into the underbelly of Zeitoun , where a Hamas battalion of the same name still operated . To the south , lay a field of concrete rubble spanning the stretch of corridor -- a graveyard of houses . The roofs of the buildings had often broken down the middle , with one slab of concrete jutting up like tombstones for the homes that had once stood there . <h> ' A giant gun pointed at Israel ' <p> This was the grim cost of Hamas having converted the territory into a giant gun pointed at Israel . <p> Roads were reduced to sandy strips by the treads of tanks . Garbage was strewn throughout the area , the food for packs of wild dogs that ruled Gaza in Hamas 's stead . Day and night the dogs would roam the streets and debris fields , snarling and barking at one another . Many of these wild animals learned to appreciate soldiers , who would give them food and water . Sometimes the dogs would join them on patrol or guard duty . We were particularly fond of the puppies , sweet-faced little things with black button eyes . <p> FOR THE next month we brought more buildings down to the ground , removing those that were believed booby trapped , housed tunnel entrances , or created a more advantageous security position . Every few days we shifted to another site , often leaving our old base in rubble . The enemy managed to fire off the occasional mortar bomb in our general direction . Another company was almost hit by a dud RPG , embedding in a wall inches from their faces . One Hamas operative trying to escape into a tunnel had a building brought down on him by a UAV when he was spotted by a neighboring company , and another was captured when he tried to place an IED in a bag on a road . <p> Besides these incidents , the area was far quieter than our previous deployment . As news broke that Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar had been killed , there was a pervading sense that the enemy was collapsing under IDF assaults . As noted by our commanders in briefings , the immediate enemy could not muster strategic operations , grasping at tactical attacks and battlefield propaganda stunts . In the previous deployment , enemy tunnels were everywhere , but as their underground infrastructure collapsed , Hamas could not keep up its once steady pace of hit-and-run RPG attacks . Its fighters usually dared not venture out into the day , and were blind at night . They seemed to desperately cling to the dimmest light of dusk and dawn , when visibility was low . <p> The IDF did not wait for the Hamas units in the north to conduct these attacks . The mission of 8111 Battalion was not just to defend the Netzarim Corridor and expand control of surrounding territory . We were one of the many units to serve as an anvil , as the hammer of an IDF division fell on the Jabalya area . <p> Prior to the attack , evacuation notices given to the residents of the area called for them to move south along a coastal road or down the Salah a-Din Road . Only a trickle of dozens made their way down the central artery by the anniversary of October 7 . <p> On one of our last weeks of the tour , movement was spotted in front of one of our old sites , a complex of three buildings . The complex had been largely left intact . We would regularly clear the buildings to use for stakeouts and reconnaissance , due to their immediate proximity to what we declared a redline boundary . Beyond this boundary , Hamas and other terrorist groups still held some sway and control . The old complex stood between the boundary and our new position , and was only 250 meters from our new site , well within rifle range . Our sergeant and light machine gunner saw two men with bags scaling the rubble . They had ventured from beyond the redline , through the complex , and out to the other side , facing us -- on the path we routinely navigated each time we visited the old site . <p> We sent out a drone to investigate . The little quadcopter zoomed across the gap between the sites . The two men heard the drone coming -- one of them dropped a bag -- and shot back into the building . Our drone specialist guided his avatar over the complex and peered below . On the other side of the building the two intruders joined two others who had been waiting . Together they fled from the drone , crossing the sandy depression between the complex and the boundary . At the mouth of a main road , four more men were waiting . They ran down the road , joining others still , until they disappeared into the Zeitoun neighborhood . <p> Our platoon and company officers were disturbed . People had come so close to our position without being seen , with bags that could contain IEDs . <p> THAT NIGHT , the order came down -- the old complex had to be removed immediately . The intelligence assessment indicated that Hamas was sending to the blind spot spies and operatives to lay IEDs . Our platoon officer detailed the operation in the predawn morning . We would circle around to a building on the same row as the old complex . Once there , we would clear the building floor by floor , then set up a sniper stakeout . Once the snipers were there to cover us , we would be joined by three tanks and two D9s , which would help us advance to the three buildings so we could secure them for combat engineers to rig for demolition . <h> Fears of Hamas IEDs in the area <p> Many of the soldiers in my platoon were tense about the likelihood that Hamas had laid IEDs around the area . We had lost friends in an IED ambush last tour . They argued that canine handlers or combat engineers should lead the way because of their specialization in spotting and recognizing explosives . <p> " I 'm not confident I can identify every IED , " said our light machine gunner , who would be taking point with me . <p> " Do n't worry , I know how to identify IEDs -- but I can only do it when they 're exploding , " I joked . " If I say ' aaah ! ' -- that 's my signal that I 've found one . " <p> A few laughs go a long way to calm nerves . <p> The platoon , company command squad , and a sniper team gathered in formation outside our site under a gray dawn . Our platoon officer drew back his rifle 's charging hand , loading a bullet into the chamber . The rest followed , cocking their weapons in a clatter . <p> We led the formation with a steady pace through the alleys of the dilapidated neighborhood until outside our first destination , the sniper nest building . At our officer 's command , one of our drone specialists rushed forward . After a drone survey satisfied there were no explosives at the entrance -- a blown-out storage room -- my partner and I rushed over to secure the entry point . The platoon swept up the stairs , clearing the floors room by room , until the building was secure . The sniper team took position on one of the higher floors . We waited a floor below for the sun to rise higher and our armored units to arrive . <p> We did n't wait long before one of the drone specialists saw movement as he peered through a window . Hamas operatives were sneaking from the old complex . We had caught them by surprise . The order came down , and a sniper opened fire , killing one of the men . A teen lookout , possibly around 14 years old , darted over to the mouth of the main road at the boundary line . I fired at the ground nearby to scare him off . Another man appeared in the sandy depression . As he ran , I shot him in the leg , but I mistakenly believed I had missed . He stumbled as more gunfire rang -- another marksman and I put two more rounds into his torso . I watched through my scope as he nestled into a dirt mound and ceased movement . A moment later , my partner opened fire on another man . The dust cleared , and we waited , and watched . <p> The young man I had killed could n't have been much older than 18 . He was in civilian clothes . He was unarmed . My heart sank when inspection of a bag dropped by one of the men revealed foodstuffs inside . <p> Was he actually Hamas ? What if he was just a civilian desperate for the food we had abandoned in our old complex ? Did we really have enough intelligence to use deadly force ? <p> Two more men in civilian garb ran from the old complex to the main road entrance . I had clear shots on them , but declined to take them -- I felt too uncertain about the possibility that they were actually civilians . <p> Covered by fire from tanks , the sandy depression was raked to ensure there were no explosives . We leapfrogged along the mounds of dirt until we reached the main building in the old complex . Once again we began to clear the building , room by room -- when suddenly one of our squads was alerted by shouting . Two men called " stop " in Arabic , appearing from behind furniture with a makeshift white flag . They were captured and held , as we finished clearing the rest of the building . No more surprises . <p> As we waited for the combat engineers to arrive , a preliminary interrogation revealed the truth about all the men we had encountered that day . One of the men we had captured was n't just a Hamas operative , he was an official member of its military wing , the Izzadin al-Qassam Brigades . The group had been ordered by the Zeitoun Battalion commander to gather food , supplies , and intelligence at the complex . <p> We shooed any stray animals from the building before the engineers came , then moved on to the next building , then the next , until all three were mined . We withdrew from the complex , and once all our forces and the detainees were clear , the buildings were detonated . A massive dust cloud rose in the air , then fell into a haze as dusk set in . <h> Harrowing scenes from reserve duty <p> THE NEXT day another platoon returned to the bodies at the site , only to make a gruesome discovery . The dogs had gotten to them first . They had feasted on their flesh ; the puppies we had found so adorable and precocious had used their small stature to enter under the corpse rib cages . A group of Palestinian men arrived under a white banner claiming to be from UNRWA , and were allowed to collect the remains . <p> A day later , another group of men attempted to sneak into our zone of control in the early hours of the morning . A sniper shot one of them in the leg , and the wounded man and another retreated into Zeitoun . The third remained behind with his arms up . He was detained . These were civilians , paid by the father of one of the men we had captured to collect a body . An Arabic-speaking soldier asked him why he had n't moved to safety in the south , through the humanitarian corridor . He needed money to pay Hamas to let him pass . They still exerted enough control to extort civilians . <p> The man was eventually released southward , without the people he was sent to collect . He did n't know that not only were they alive , further intelligence gleaned from the interrogation of the al-Qassam member soon led to an airstrike that killed six members of the Hamas military wing . Another discovery by a different brigade added another dimension to Hamas operation in the area : A few hundred meters from the old complex was a hidden cache of brand-new Kalashnikov rifles . Hamas hid armories around Gaza , for plainclothes operatives like the men we encountered to use when they had gathered enough intelligence , and had gotten close enough to shed the perfidious charade of being civilians . <p> " Those weapons were probably meant to be used against us , " said one officer . <p> Finally , the time came to leave . One of our drone specialists had grown attached to one of the puppies at the rear base . He wanted to bring her with him , to save her from the harsh environment , before she had grown up to be just as savage as the others . Yet he did n't have place to keep her at home . Perhaps Gaza was where she was meant to be , with the other wild animals . <p> As we rode back to Israel on open Humvees in broad daylight , we cheered in our good mood . Despite the smiles , I was still scarred by the momentary fear that I had killed a civilian . For Hamas , which was willing to send young men to their deaths as cannon fodder , which was willing to have all of Gaza razed in its war against Israel rather than surrender , life was cheap . It was just to kill Hamas terrorists , who sought to kill Israelis and refused to release Israelis hostages , and who would make any peace with the Palestinians impossible . Yet life was not cheap to me . Even if Hamas and its ilk did not value life , the life of men like the one I killed still had innate value . Like Gaza , their lives were full of potential -- he could have had a family , loved , studied , a career . Instead , he died among the ruins of a place that could have been teeming with orchards , hotels , and tourists as a jewel of the Mediterranean . <p> In taking such lives , even if legitimate , the innate value in them must be respected by ensuring that not only fellow soldiers be saved by their slaying , but further death and destruction not befall Gaza . His death , all the destruction we had witnessed , had to be a necessary step in service of ending the war in victory against Hamas and peace with the Palestinians , so there would be no future war and reason for us to return to Gaza a third time . 
@@118513423 <h> After JTA published the president 's correspondence , faculty accused him of inappropriate scrutiny . <p> Cornell University 's Jewish interim president is facing growing blowback from higher education groups over emails published by the Jewish Telegraphic Agency last month , in which he raised objections to an upcoming class on Gaza . <p> Michael Kotlikoff 's remarks , which JTA reported on Nov. 11 , were a violation of academic freedom , say representatives of the American Association of University Professors and the Middle East Studies Association . The episode is the latest instance of campus scrutiny over Israel shifting from protests to the classroom , more than a year removed from the Oct. 7 , 2023 , Hamas attacks that launched the war in Gaza . <p> In the email , Kotlikoff expressed his objections to a new course entitled " Gaza , Indigeneity , Resistance , " scheduled to be taught next term by Jewish professor Eric Cheyfitz , a pro-Palestinian activist who teaches in the school 's American Indian and Indigenous Studies program . Writing to a different Jewish professor , Kotlikoff said he was " extremely disappointed " with " the course 's apparent lack of openness and objectivity , " and promised to work with other departments to offer alternative courses on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . <p> The email , which Kotlikoff says was never meant to be publicized , has prompted anger over the past week as the story gained traction in the Cornell Daily Sun , the student newspaper . Risley Residential College , Cornell University , Ithaca , New York . ( credit : Wikimedia Commons ) <p> " Kotlikoff 's remarks are an egregious threat to bedrock principles of academic freedom , as well as Cornell 's commitment to ' any person , any study . ' They raise the specter of administrative interference in faculty control over curricular decisions and course instruction , " Risa Lieberwitz , the Jewish president of the university 's AAUP chapter , wrote in an open letter . <p> Like other universities , the Ivy League school has faced numerous controversies over Israel politics and antisemitism since Oct. 7 , 2023 , with leaders and faculty frequently clashing over the limits of acceptable response . A student was arrested for threatening Jewish students ; a professor was placed on leave for commenting that he felt " exhilarated " by the attacks ; and administrators were recorded promising broader surveillance of pro-Palestinian faculty during a meeting with Hillel parents . <h> Academic freedom <p> All this has led to deeper concerns that schools like Cornell could meaningfully curtail academic freedom in the name of protecting Jewish students , especially under a second Trump administration , as the president-elect has sworn to crack down on universities for " turning our students into communists and terrorists . " <p> While Kotlikoff vowed not to interfere with the class itself , his critics say his comments were a form of inappropriate scrutiny over faculty . Cheyfitz and his allies also said the professor has received hate mail as a result of his course being publicized . <p> Lieberwitz 's letter added that the president 's comments " suggest that , despite repeated disavowals , the leadership of the University not only intends to scrutinize the in-class activities of Cornell faculty but is actively doing so where it is deemed politically desirable . " <p> Earlier this year , amid the Gaza war and calls for the boycott of Israel , AAUP dropped its longstanding opposition to academic boycotts . The Middle East Studies Association , an international group for academics focused on the region that itself endorsed a boycott of Israel in 2022 and has accused it of " genocidal violence , " also accused Kotlikoff of infringing on academic freedom . <p> " You are of course entitled to your opinion about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and the proposed course , " the group 's president and academic freedom chair wrote in an open letter . But , they said , " your remarks may compromise the willingness of Cornell faculty to offer courses that deal with controversial issues , " as well as affect the judgment of curriculum-reviewing committees . <p> Meanwhile , the Jewish professor who prompted the row by sharing Kotlikoff 's email with JTA says he has no regrets . <p> " If a course such as the one on Gaza being offered by Professor Cheyfitz can not withstand criticism , perhaps it 's its underlying premise , not the criticism , that should be scrutinized , " Menachem Rosensaft , an adjunct professor in the law school who first raised his concerns about the class with the school president , wrote to JTA on Thursday . <p> In Rosensaft 's view , his objections to the course have nothing to do with academic freedom . Instead , he believes the Gaza course -- which promises to frame the conflict through a settler-colonial lens , one that Israel 's defenders insist does not apply to the region 's history -- is analogous to classes promoting slavery , misogyny , or other values that would not be tolerated at a modern university . He wrote that the course would promote a narrative that " constitutes antisemitism on steroids . " <p> Speaking to Inside Higher Ed , Kotlikoff defended his right to share his personal opinions on a course . " I would not publicly comment on the decision of a curriculum committee or a colleague 's choice of course material , " he said , while adding , " if there are antisemitic , racist , other incidents that are directly related to Cornell , I certainly reserve the right to comment on those and reassure the community around those issues . " <p> Cheyfitz , for his part , still plans to teach the course , and says criticisms of it were based only on a brief course description . Citing a just-released report from Amnesty International , the human rights NGO , accusing Israel of genocide -- a charge that Israel and its defenders reject as spurious -- he told JTA that his critics would be judged harshly : " History will mark scholars like Rosensaft for what they are : apologists for genocide , " he said . 
@@118513427 <h> GMU SJP had been received an interim suspension on November 8 and two of its student leaders were given trespass notices barring them from campus for four years . <p> Pro-Palestinian students and supporters rally at the site of their Gaza solidarity encampment the day after police cleared the camp and arrested more than 30 people , Washington , DC , May 9 , 2024. ( photo credit : ALLISON BAILEY/Middle East Images/AFP via Getty Image ) <p> Anti-Israel activists were suspended for protests and vandalism that caused damage at George Mason University ( GMU ) and The University of Minnesota Twin Cities ( UMN ) in recent weeks , according to activist groups . <p> The coalition for Students for Justice in Palestine chapters in the District of Columbia , Maryland , and Virginia ( DMV SJP ) announced on Tuesday that the GMU SJP had been received an interim suspension on November 8 and two of its student leaders were given trespass notices barring them from campus for four years . <p> The day before SJP had been suspended , the student leaders were " raided " by a contingent of Fairfax County and GMU police officers in relation to incidents of property damage on the GMU Fairfax campus . <p> GMU Police have been investigating a vandalism incident that occurred on the Fairfax campus on August 28 . GMU police offered a $2,000 reward for information about several black-clad students who spray painted messages on the ground . PROTESTERS RALLY for a ceasefire in Gaza , outside an auto workers union hall in Michigan during a visit by President Joe Biden , in February . It 's the Muslims in Minnesota and Michigan who Biden mistakenly believes hold the key to his second term , says the writer . ( credit : REBECCA COOK/REUTERS ) <p> DMV SJP and GMU Faculty for Justice in Palestine issued demands for the GMU administration , calling for the revocation of the trespass orders , the reinstatement of the GMU SJP chapter , and an investigation into the events leading to police action . <p> Last Tuesday seven students were disciplined at UMN for their role in the October 21 occupation of GMU 's Morrill Hall , in which extensive damage was caused to the property . <h> Disciplinary action <p> All seven students were ordered to pay over $5,500 each in restitution , according to a UMN Students for a Democratic Society Instagram Post . One student was suspended for five semesters , three for three semesters , two for two semesters , and one for one semester . If they wish to readmitted after the suspensions the students will have to do 20 hours of community service and write an essay on the " difference between vandalism and protest " . <p> UMN SDS urged supporters to contact the administration demanding for all charges to be dropped . <p> During the Morrill Hall protest , protesters spray painted security cameras , broke windows , and barricaded the entrances . Employees inside the hall were unable to leave in what UMN President Rebecca Cunningham said in an October 22 statement was a " terrifying experience . " <p> " These actions crossed the line into illegal activity when they actively threatened the emotional and physical safety of our employees , prevented their free movement , disrupted building operations and destroyed campus property , " said Cunningham . 
@@118513428 <h> Amnesty International genocide allegations are ' unfounded , ' US State Dept. says <h> " People are entitled to draw their own conclusions . We disagree with the conclusions of such a report , " the State Department Deupty Spokesperson said . <p> A child walks around a fake tank parked outside the US embassy during a protest held by Amnesty International in Mexico City. ( photo credit : REUTERS ) <p> The State Department maintained it 's continuing to find that allegations of Israel committing genocide in Gaza are unfounded as Amnesty International released its report on Thursday claiming there 's enough evidence that Israel is committing genocide against Palestinians . <p> " People are entitled to draw their own conclusions . We disagree with the conclusions of such a report , " State Department Principal Deputy Spokesperson Vedant Patel told reporters during a news briefing on Thursday afternoon . " We have said previously and continue to find that the allegations of genocide are unfounded . <p> Reporters pressed Patel relentlessly over the Department 's process for gathering information and the irrefutability of the Department 's determinations . <p> Patel insisted civil society organizations like Amnesty International , human rights groups , and NGOs continue to play a vital role in providing information and analysis related to Gaza and " what 's going on . " <p> " But as I 've said before , " Patel said , " ... that we do not , and have not concurred with these past findings regarding genocide . " The logo of Amnesty International is seen next to director of Mujeres En Linea Luisa Kislinger , during a news conference to announce the results of an investigation into humans rights abuses committed in Venezuela during protests against President Nicolas Maduro in Caracas , Venezuela February 20 , 2 ( credit : REUTERS/CARLOS JASSO ) <p> However , Patel added , that does not change or alter the continued concern the US has as it relates to the humanitarian situation in Gaza , and it does not change the US ' continued concern as it relates to the conflicts ' impact on civilians and civilian casualties . <h> Concerns over humanitarian aid <p> " We continue to stress at every turn that there is a moral and strategic priority for Israel to comply with international and humanitarian law . And that is something we are going to continue to raise with partners in the region and with Israel , " Patel said . <p> Patel said that ultimately , the best thing that can happen for improvement in humanitarian conditions in Gaza and for the release of the remaining hostages is for the parties to work toward an agreement to stop the war . 
@@118513430 <h> Amnesty International genocide allegations are ' unfounded , ' US State Dept. says <h> " People are entitled to draw their own conclusions . We disagree with the conclusions of such a report , " the State Department Deupty Spokesperson said . <p> By HANNAH SARISOHNA child walks around a fake tank parked outside the US embassy during a protest held by Amnesty International in Mexico City. ( photo credit : REUTERS ) <p> The State Department maintained it 's continuing to find that allegations of Israel committing genocide in Gaza are unfounded as Amnesty International released its report on Thursday claiming there 's enough evidence that Israel is committing genocide against Palestinians . <p> " People are entitled to draw their own conclusions . We disagree with the conclusions of such a report , " State Department Principal Deputy Spokesperson Vedant Patel told reporters during a news briefing on Thursday afternoon . " We have said previously and continue to find that the allegations of genocide are unfounded . <h> FM Sa'ar , Blinken meet to discuss Lebanon , Syria , Gaza developments <p> Foreign Minister Gideon Sa'ar met with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Thursday to discuss the situation in Lebanon , Syria , and Gaza , Walla reported . <p> Sa'ar told Blinken that Israel sees an opportunity to advance a deal for the release of hostages and that Israel is serious about its intention to promote such a deal , the Foreign Minister 's office told Walla . <h> Cyprus takes delivery of Israeli air defense system , report says <p> Cyprus has taken delivery of an Israeli air defense system , local media reported on Thursday , as the east Mediterranean island taps new markets to upgrade its defense capabilities after the loss of key supplier Russia . <p> TV station Sigma said the first deliveries were made on Tuesday . Cypriot officials declined to comment on the specifics of the report . <h> ' Throw them in the toilet ' : Yitzhak Yosef urges students to ' tear up ' draft orders <h> " What do we have without our Torah ? Why did we come here -- to become secular ? If a draft notice arrives , tear it up . Do you have a toilet at home ? Flush it down , " Yosef said . <p> By YAKI ADAMKER Rabbi Yitzhak Yosef during a shaharit prayer in the northern Israeli city of Tzfat , September 17 , 2024. ( photo credit : David Cohen/Flash90 ) <p> Rabbi Yitzhak Yosef , the former chief Sephardi rabbi and a leading figure in the Shas party , told yeshiva students this week to take the IDF draft notices sent to them , " tear them up , throw them in the toilet , and flush them away . " <p> Yosef made these remarks during a discussion with students earlier this week , where he urged them " not to fear because the Holy One , Blessed be He , is with you . " <h> " Terrorists in the North were on full alert , ready to act " against Israel after October 7 , the official senior explained . <p> A surprise attack was planned on Israel 's northern border in the days following the October 7 Hamas attacks , a senior military official involved in commanding the IDF 's operations in southern Lebanon revealed in a Wednesday Maariv interview . <p> The official emphasized that a repeat or imitation of the October 7 attack is unlikely to occur along Israel 's northern border at this stage of the war . He attributed this to the IDF 's efforts in neutralizing terror tunnels , clearing dense brushlands , and dismantling nature reserves that had been converted into terror strongholds . <h> Amnesty International 's Israel section argued that the allegation of genocide had not been " sufficiently substantiated . " <p> By MICHAEL STARR The logo of Amnesty International is seen next to director of Mujeres En Linea Luisa Kislinger , during a news conference to announce the results of an investigation into humans rights abuses committed in Venezuela during protests against President Nicolas Maduro in Caracas , Venezuela February 20 , 2 ( photo credit : REUTERS/CARLOS JASSO ) <p> Amnesty International 's Israel section rejected the findings of the global body 's Thursday report accusing the State of Israel of committing genocide during the war against Hamas in Gaza . <p> In a Thursday statement , the independently registered Israeli association Israel said that it was not involved in any way with the report . It argued that the allegation of genocide had not been " sufficiently substantiated . " <p> While Amnesty Israel believes that there is a high death toll of civilians in the Gaza Strip and that the Israeli response roused suspicions of possible widespread international law violations , crimes against humanity , and ethnic cleansing , it did not believe that the threshold of proof for the crime of genocide had been met . <h> Police arrest illegal resident from West Bank after stealing a car in Ramat Gan <p> By ALON HACHMON breaking news ( photo credit : JPOST STAFF ) <p> Police arrested a 34-year-old illegal resident from the West Bank on Tuesday following a police car chase in Tel Aviv that ended with a self-inflicted crash , Israeli media reported on Thursday . <p> Police officers from the Ramat Gan-Bnei Brak Stock Exchange unit began searching for a suspect following a report received from an ituran ( a system that provides stolen vehicle recovery and tracking services ) concerning the theft of a car in Ramat Gan. 
@@118513431 <p> IDF sources said on Thursday that the IDF is weaker in all areas of air defense than it should be , not only in drones . The land forces also lack several independent operating capacities that they should have to be ready for future threats . <p> While it is well-known that the IDF has had significant problems with shooting down drones as compared to shooting down rockets and ballistic missiles , the IDF sources ' comments were an unusual admission that other aspects of air defenses also had holes . <p> One suggestion was for the land forces to receive a much larger number of their own tactical air defense platforms . <p> In other words , the way air defense currently works is that the air force manages a mix of aircraft , drones , Iron Dome , David 's Sling , Arrow 2 and 3 , and coordinates with radar and communications of the land forces and sets a national strategy . <p> Included within this strategy is force protection of military troops near the border , but that is only one of many goals which the national air defense must manage . <p> This means that when Hamas , Hezbollah , or other adversaries would focus a larger than average amount of aerial threats on specific IDF troops , especially those close to the border , the national defense would often be overwhelmed and inadequate . <p> In contrast , IDF sources said that if battalion-level forces are given control of some of their own local tactical defenses against aerial threats that are focused just on them , they will have a much better chance to defend themselves , also given that they can collect physical data on defense which long-range radars usually miss . <p> None of this is to take away from the around 90% shootdown rate credited to the national air defense against rockets and 70-80% against drones , but at certain points , the land forces near the border have been struck more than some commanders think should have occurred . <h> Land forces are too dependent on air support <p> In addition , IDF sources said that the land forces are too dependent on air support and lack sufficient volumes of vehicles to move them from defensive lines to forward attack lines . <p> In the future , the IDF hopes the land forces will have more regularly available hummer vehicles as well as to purchase many more JLTVs ( Joint Light Tactical Vehicles ) forfulfilling its missions and making moving larger numbers of soldiers faster and more efficient . <p> Currently , the IDF has a stunningly impressive 7,700 tactical drones being used by land forces , separate from how many larger strategic drones the air force is using . <p> This spike in land forces having their own drones started in recent years and up until the current war , this number of drones was viewed as revolutionary in terms of empowering select battalion level units to wield their own drone power . <p> During the war , these smaller tactical drones which can not cover large areas , but which can be used to quickly check for enemy forces or ambushes at the nearby street and neighborhood area where IDF forces may need to advance , have been invaluable . So invaluable in fact that it has been decided that their use should be much more standardized for all units . <p> The IDF plans to acquire another 15,000 such drones to more fully maximize surveillance and localized air support functions beyond what the Air Force can reliably provide on a constant basis . <p> Moreover , the IDF has revolutionized the use of digital platforms and artificial intelligence in war fighting , but believes that there is significant additional work to be done to make such capabilities available all the time to a wider number of forward units . <p> Also , the sources stated that too many IDF units are trained for one specific function , such as defense , offense , or intelligence collection , whereas they should be trained for multiple functions . <p> Altering training such that more soldiers will be trained for multiple functions will also alleviate some of the pressure on the IDF in terms of sufficient soldiers . <p> For example , the IDF wanted 12,690 new soldiers in the latest recruitment class in order to fulfil all of its required missions , but only succeeded in drafting 11,900 in that class , leaving it over 700 soldiers short . <p> This has not been true in key combat units , like the Golani and Givati brigades , where the IDF 's recruitment has been 107-123% above stated goals . <p> Another major decision which the IDF has made has been to provide weapons to all rank-and-file lookouts who apply for them over the next four to six weeks . <p> This comes after a prior round of weapons were distributed to commanders of lookout units . <p> It also comes after wide ranging criticism that many of the lookouts who Hamas killed on the Gaza border on October 7 , 2023 , might have had a better chance to survive if they had not been situated so close to Hamas , and without their own weapons . <p> At the time , the strategy was based on a mix of technology warning other troops in advance of an invasion to come to the border as well as a small number of actual armed combat fighters who guarded the lookout posts . <p> In addition , some lookout posts , such as the position at Nahal Oz , are being permanently moved to slightly more defensible locations , which are also a bit further from the border . <p> IDF sources said that recruitment for lookout remains strong due to the military 's outreach to all parties involved in the issue and that the positions can not be too far from the border without losing certain effectiveness standards . <p> In the broader picture , the IDF is now recruiting around 1,635 new female combat fighters per year and is now up to 7,514 female combat fighters total from 4,023 in 2017 . <p> The IDF just initiated plans to integrate women into combat transport units last month and hopes to start integrating some women into tank units in 2025 . <p> Additional units which the IDF hopes to establish will include an additional home land defense brigade of mandatory service soldiers , a new unit of infantry soldiers to handle explosives , and enlarging the Yahalom anti-tunnel units . <p> Further , the IDF plans to purchase an immense amount of new advanced ammunition and weapons for regular infantry and not only for more elite units , given that regular infantry now take a larger role in fighting . <p> These will also include 10,000 more night vision items and 22,000 thermal scopes for guns . <p> Taking a broad view of the state of the current war , IDF sources said that the military did its job to defeat all of Hamas 's 24 battalions , but that the political echelon has , for an extended period , failed to decide who it wants to hand Gaza over to in order to replace Hamas 's political control there . <p> Regarding the October 7 failure and the related probes , IDF sources were apologetic for the extensive delays in publicizing the probes . <p> Originally , the probes were due to be published in June , then they were postponed to July-August , then an explosion of criticism over the Beeri probe published in July led the IDF high command to decide to delay publication until all of the probes were published together . <p> Despite the passage of time , IDF sources said that so many people were upset by October 7 and there is so much video footage , that the truth will eventually come out . <p> Most recently , IDF Chief of Staff Lt.-Gen . Herzi Halevi implied the probes would be published by February 2025. 
@@118513432 <h> An Israeli official noted , " The Egyptian and Qatari mediators believe Hamas might now agree to a hostage-release and ceasefire deal . " <p> Israel has given to Hamas , through Egyptian mediators , an updated version of a ceasefire deal proposal that involves the release of the remaining 100 hostages , two Israeli officials said . <p> Attempting to leverage regional and international shifts -- including the elimination of Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar in mid-October , the ceasefire agreement with Hezbollah in Lebanon , and President-elect Donald Trump 's inauguration in late January -- the updated version of the proposal mirrors previous similar efforts while emphasizing the implementation of the first phase of the deal from August . <p> " The Egyptian and Qatari mediators believe Hamas might now agree to a hostage-release and ceasefire deal , even if it is partial , " one Israeli official noted . <p> Key points of the new proposal were finalized during a meeting with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , involving senior ministers and several security chiefs . These points were passed to Egyptian intelligence , who then presented them to Hamas representatives in Cairo . <p> " Egypt is currently the primary negotiation channel with Hamas , although Qatar is also involved , " Israeli officials stated . Former Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar on the backdrop of hostage posters . ( Illustrative ) ( credit : FLASH90/CANVA ) <p> The new proposal offers a ceasefire with Hamas lasting 42 to 60 days . During this period , the Gazan terror organization would release female hostages , male hostages over 50 , and hostages in critical medical condition . <p> Israel , which initially demanded the release of 33 individuals in these groups , has adjusted its expectations , citing assessments that some hostages may no longer be alive . <p> Notably , the proposal maintains Israel 's readiness to release hundreds of Palestinian prisoners , including those serving life sentences , in exchange . <h> Israel awaits Hamas response <p> " We are waiting for the Egyptians to inform us of Hamas 's response , " an Israeli official remarked concerning Hamas 's stance on the updated proposal . " Within a few days , we will know whether Hamas is willing to negotiate within the framework we presented or not , " he added . <p> If Hamas responds positively , an Israeli delegation will travel to Cairo to finalize details such as the ceasefire duration , the number of hostages to be released , and which Palestinian prisoners will be freed . <p> " The President-elect supports a deal for the release of hostages and a ceasefire in the Gaza Strip , provided it is acceptable to Israel . " a Trump advisor said , adding , " Trump wants such a deal to move forward quickly , without delay , and before January 20 . " <p> Qatari Prime Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al Thani told Sky News that he is in contact with Trump 's advisors on the matter . <p> " We have heard from Trump 's advisors that he wants the hostage issue and the Gaza ceasefire resolved before he takes office . We hope both sides understand this message , " he said . 
@@118513433 <h> Amnesty International 's Israel section argued that the allegation of genocide had not been " sufficiently substantiated . " <p> The logo of Amnesty International is seen next to director of Mujeres En Linea Luisa Kislinger , during a news conference to announce the results of an investigation into humans rights abuses committed in Venezuela during protests against President Nicolas Maduro in Caracas , Venezuela February 20 , 2 ( photo credit : REUTERS/CARLOS JASSO ) <p> Amnesty International 's Israel section rejected the findings of the global body 's Thursday report accusing the State of Israel of committing genocide during the war against Hamas in Gaza . <p> In a Thursday statement , the independently registered Israeli association Israel said that it was not involved in any way with the report and argued that the allegation of genocide had not been " sufficiently substantiated . " <p> While Amnesty Israel believes that there is a high death toll of civilians in the Gaza Strip and that the Israeli response roused suspicions of possible widespread international law violations , crimes against humanity , and ethnic cleansing , it did not believe that the threshold of proof for the crime of genocide had been met . <p> The crime of genocide requires evidence of specific intent to destroy the Palestinians in Gaza as a group in whole or in part , said Amnesty Israel . <p> " Based on our analysis , put together in consultation with external experts , many of us have doubts regarding the possibility of proving unequivocally , and beyond any reasonable alternative explanation , the element of intent , " said Amnesty Israel.Activists of Amnesty International demonstrate to show their support with the Syrian people at the Fontaine des Innocentes in Paris May 29 , 2012. ( credit : REUTERS ) <h> Israel 's violations ? <p> Amnesty Israel said that Israel had , however , violated an article in the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide by failing to properly act against public incitement against genocide . <p> This included remarks by public figures calling for revenge on Gaza 's civilians as a whole for the October 7 Massacre . <p> A minority of the Amnesty Israel team did believe , the group noted , that there was indeed enough information to establish that the state had committed genocide in Gaza . <p> Amnesty Israel also believes Israel to be engaged in apartheid and occupation of territory outside its internationally recognized borders and that this system had to be dismantled . <p> As it did not support the conclusions of the report ' You Feel Like You Are Subhuman ' : Israel 's Genocide Against Palestinians in Gaza , it also did not accept the " operational calls " of Amnesty International . <p> Amnesty had called for the cessation of arms trade with Israel and for the UN Security Council to level sanctions against Israeli and Hamas officials . <p> It also called for states to respect the International Criminal Court 's arrest warrants for Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former defense minister Yoav Gallant and urged the court to add the crime of genocide to the warrant . <p> Amnesty Israel issued its own calls for action , which included increased pressure and efforts for a ceasefire , the return of all Israeli hostages , and the release of Palestinians detained without due process . <p> The group called for the protection of civilians from the actions of both sides and comprehensive investigations of war crimes by all sides , as well as increased humanitarian aid , utilities , and services for Gaza residents . <p> The root of the violence had to be solved , according to Amnesty Israel , which meant the end of supposed Israeli apartheid in the disputed territories and the end of the involvement of armed actors such as Iran and Hezbollah in the region . <p> Amnesty Israel noted that Hamas had also been accused of genocide and that it was necessary to investigate these claims and ensure that the proof threshold for genocidal intent was applied universally and consistently . <p> Amnesty International is set to produce a report on Hamas crimes during the October 7 massacre . <h> A report ' based on lies ' <p> The Israeli Foreign Ministry responded to Amnesty International 's report on Thursday morning , dismissing it as a " fabricated report that is entirely false and based on lies . " <p> " The genocidal massacre on October 7 , 2023 , was carried out by the Hamas terrorist organization against Israeli citizens . Since then , Israeli citizens have been subjected to daily attacks from seven different fronts , " the MFA said on social media . " Israel is defending itself against these attacks acting fully in accordance with international law . " 
@@118513434 <h> NGO Monitor said in advance of the publication of the report that the announcement used selective evidence to come to its conclusions . <p> Activists of Amnesty International and Doctors of the World gather outside a hospital during a protest calling for the stop of the attacks of Israel against hospitals in Gaza , amid the ongoing conflict between Israel and the Palestinian Islamist group Hamas , in Malaga , Spain , May 3 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/JON NAZCA ) <p> NGO Amnesty International said that its investigation into the ongoing Gaza War found enough evidence to conclude that Israel is committing genocide against Palestinians , the group said . <p> Titled " ' You Feel Like You Are Subhuman : ' Israel 's Genocide Against Palestinians in Gaza , " the report is said to have documented military operations , imposed conditions , and statements by soldiers and political leaders that indicated that Israel was engaged in genocide . <p> Amnesty secretary-general Agn ? s Callamard said in a press release that " Month after month , Israel has treated Palestinians in Gaza as a subhuman group unworthy of human rights and dignity , demonstrating its intent to physically destroy them . " <p> The NGO said that the allegedly " unprecedented " level of destruction and death in Gaza , when viewed as part of broader policy and military action , indicated that " genocidal intent is the only reasonable conclusion . " <p> The activist group claimed that 42,000 Palestinians , including 13,300 children , had been killed by the Israeli military from October 7 , 2023 , until October 7 , 2024 . Amnesty said that over 97,000 Palestinians had been injured during the war . Palestinians , including rescuers , search for casualties at the site of an Israeli strike on a house , in Gaza City November 18 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/Mahmoud Issa ) <p> Amnesty claimed that many of the civilian casualties were the result of a widespread pattern of direct or deliberately indiscriminate attacks . Amnesty said that it reviewed 15 airstrikes from October to April that killed 334 civilians and found no evidence that the strikes were directed at a military objective . <h> Responding to the IDF 's claim it targets Hamas , armed groups in Gaza <p> " Before reaching its conclusion , Amnesty International examined Israel 's claims that its military lawfully targeted Hamas and other armed groups throughout Gaza and that the resulting unprecedented destruction and denial of aid were the outcome of unlawful conduct by Hamas and other armed groups , such as locating fighters among the civilian population , " said Amnesty . <p> " The organization concluded that these claims are not credible . The presence of Hamas fighters near or within a densely populated area does not absolve Israel from its obligations to take all feasible precautions to spare civilians and avoid indiscriminate or disproportionate attacks . Its research found Israel repeatedly failed to do so , committing multiple crimes under international law for which there can be no justification based on Hamas 's actions . " <p> Amnesty added that even if Israel was just acting recklessly , treating Palestinians as " disposable " was also evidence of genocidal intent . <p> In addition to direct action , Israel allegedly inflicted conditions on the lives of Palestinians that were intended to lead over time to their destruction . Life-threatening conditions were caused by widespread life-sustaining infrastructure , the displacement of Gaza 's population through evacuation orders , and the denial of humanitarian aid and services . <h> Total siege <p> Amnesty said that after the October 7 massacre , Israel imposed a total siege on Gaza , cutting off electricity , water , and fuel . These conditions allegedly led to widespread humanitarian crises , which Israel declined to improve with sufficient steps . <p> The intent to commit genocide -- by the government and army -- was not just revealed by the character of military operations but by " dehumanizing and genocidal " statements by officials and soldiers . Amnesty said that it had reviewed 102 statements of political and military officials and identified that 22 statements appeared to call for or justify genocidal intent . Soldiers replicated the rhetoric when making calls to " erase " Gaza or in the celebration of destroying civilian objects , said the press release . <p> NGO Monitor said in advance of the publication of the report that the announcement used selective evidence to come to its conclusions . The group highlighted how casting the humanitarian effort of evacuation orders as genocidal contradicted demands that Israel take precautions to avoid civilian deaths in combat . <p> NGO Monitor also noted that the IDF said that it had facilitated the transfer of 1.1 million tons of aid into Gaza , established humanitarian corridors , imposed tactical pauses , and vaccinated Gazans to avoid civilian deaths from the conditions of war . <p> NGO Monitor slammed Amnesty for figures such as the death of 42,000 Palestinians , which it said were obtained from the Hamas-run Gaza Health Ministry and did not distinguish between civilians and combatants . <p> The activist group " has devoted many years to the delegitimization of Israel regardless of policies , and is simply continuing its decades-long lawfare campaign , " said NGO Monitor . <p> The International Legal Forum said that the Amnesty report was written under the " guise " of international law and human rights but was " utterly baseless and replete with malicious lies , gross distortions of truth , and fabrications of law . " <p> " To accuse Israel of ' genocide ' in Gaza is a gross and egregious subversion and weaponization of the very term itself , made even more unconscionable given the October 7 attacks were the largest mass slaughter of Jews since the Holocaust , " said ILF . <p> Amnesty called for the cessation of arms trade with Israel and said that states must respect the International Criminal Court 's arrest warrants and detain Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former defense minister Yoav Gallant . Callamard urged the ICC to consider adding the crime of genocide to the investigations into Israeli leaders and for sanctions to be leveled by the UN Security Council against Israeli and Hamas officials . <p> The ILF said that in response to the report , the incoming American administration should declare Amnesty a " hate group " and adopt sanctions against them , " including withdrawing financial support and any cooperation with government agencies . " <p> Amnesty is reportedly set to produce another document on crimes committed by Hamas and other groups during the October 7 massacre . 
@@118513435 <p> Delegates react to the voting results during the United Nations General Assembly vote on a draft resolution that would recognize the Palestinians as qualified to become a full UN member , in New York City , US May 10 , 2024. ( photo credit : Eduardo Munoz/Reuters ) <p> ' Insanity is doing the same thing repeatedly and expecting different results , " Albert Einstein once allegedly stated . And as we approach 2025 , here we go again . <p> The United Nations General Assembly announced it will host a June conference to discuss the two-state solution , a decades-old proposal for the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . UNGA President Phil ? mon Yang announced the initiative with grandiose rhetoric , urging both parties to recommit to negotiations and a peaceful resolution . <p> " After more than a year of war and suffering , realizing this vision is more urgent than ever before , " Yang said . He described the ongoing denial of Palestinian statehood as a perpetrator of violence and despair , effectively giving carte blanche to Palestinian violence against Israelis -- comments that echo what UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres stated last October , merely weeks after Hamas terrorists crossed Israel 's border and raped , mutilated , murdered and kidnapped over 1,000 civilians , including women and children , and soldiers . <p> " It is important also to recognize the attacks by Hamas did not happen in a vacuum , " Guterres famously said.Yang claimed the two-state solution ensures Palestinian self-determination while safeguarding Israel 's security . <p> But the announcement , while dressed in the language of hope , reeks of hollow moral grandstanding that ignores the realities on the ground and the UN 's culpability in perpetuating this conflict . <p> The two-state solution , long the UN 's focus , consistently fails due to Palestinian leadership 's refusal to recognize Israel and ongoing corruption and incitement . Instead of addressing these issues , the UN has acted as an enabler.This Week in History : The UN Partition Plan announced ( credit : ARCHIVE ) <h> Sticking to the status quo <p> The truth is stark : the two-state solution has become a diplomatic euphemism for maintaining the status quo . While Yang stressed dialogue , he conspicuously omits any serious critique of the Palestinian Authority 's kleptocratic governance or Hamas 's terrorist regime in Gaza . No state should be expected to negotiate under fire , yet Israel is routinely pressured to do so as rockets fall on its cities and its citizens are slaughtered . <p> Yang 's comments praising the Palestinian struggle and decrying Israeli actions betray a glaring bias . While he stresses the importance of dialogue , he omits the fact that Israel has faced unrelenting attacks . The UNGA 's tendency to vilify Israel while excusing Palestinian extremism makes any serious discussion about peace a farce . <p> Reut Shapir Ben Naftaly , representing Israel on Tuesday , also called out the hypocrisy , stating that in the coming week , the Assembly would host three meetings focused on the Middle East , centered on resolutions that exhibit a " blatant disregard for the truth . " She emphasized that , following October 7 , the UN 's deeply entrenched anti-Israel bias has been glaringly exposed . <p> Yang 's remarks , with their selective moral outrage , ignore the hundred-plus Israeli hostages still held in Gaza whose plight has been sidelined in global discourse . It seems the UN 's commitment to human rights skips over Israeli victims when crafting its narratives . <p> The planned June conference will likely follow the UN 's usual script : a parade of resolutions condemning Israel , sanctimonious speeches , and no real accountability for Palestinian leadership or their terrorist proxies . If the UN truly wanted to contribute to peace , it would focus on dismantling terror networks , ensuring that aid reaches civilians instead of fueling violence , and genuinely supporting Israel 's right to security . <p> The hypocrisy surrounding this upcoming conference is particularly apparent when considering recent history . As the UN decries Israel , it continues to fund entities and initiatives in Palestinian territories with little oversight , allowing resources to be siphoned into terror infrastructure ( UNRWA anyone ? ) . <p> The result ? Billions in aid funneled into a society where martyrdom is celebrated , and peace is an afterthought . Meanwhile , Israel is expected to negotiate with a partner that not only denies its right to exist but actively seeks its destruction . <p> The UN was founded on the principle of safeguarding peace and protecting human rights . But its treatment of Israel underscores how far it has strayed from these ideals . <p> The June conference is a charade , a testament to the UN 's irrelevance in achieving peace in the Middle East . The organization has shown that it lacks both the will and the credibility to address the conflict . Israel , meanwhile , will continue to fight for its survival . 
@@118513437 <p> French Ambassador to Armenia Olivier Decottignies recently published two social media posts about the Blue Mosque in Yerevan , where he wrote the following caption : " In the gardens of the Blue Mosque of Yerevan , emblematic of Armenia 's Persian heritage . " The second photo is even more absurd . The diplomat copied an illustration of a map of Iran with the province of West Azerbaijan highlighted in red , proclaiming : " One of the 31 provinces of Iran , whose capital and largest city is Urmia . " <p> The Azerbaijanis are outraged by these social media posts , as the Blue Mosque in Yerevan was built by Azerbaijanis , and trying to portray the mosque as " Persian " demonstrates France 's support for Persian colonialism in the region . <p> Furthermore , the Azerbaijanis are angered at the French diplomat 's attempt to portray West Azerbaijan as part of Iran . <p> In the 1980s , present-day Armenia had a sizable population of over 250,000 ethnic Azerbaijanis , who were forcefully expelled from the region between 1987 and 1988 . Following their deportation , the Armenians did everything in their power to erase all traces of Azerbaijani heritage from their country . View of Bibi Heybat Mosque and a Caspian sea shore with oil rigs in Baku May 20 , 2002 . Pope John Paul II is going to visit the capital of ex-Soviet state Azerbaijan May 22-23. ( credit : REUTERS/Shamil Zhumatov SZH/CLH/ ) <h> Expansion in the South Caucasus <p> One of these efforts was to refer to historic Azerbaijani mosques , such as the Blue Mosque in Yerevan , as " Persian " mosques . Armenia did this because it enjoys a positive relationship with Iran but is in open conflict with Azerbaijan . <p> The Persians gladly accepted these efforts and used these Armenian acts of delegitimization in order to expand their colonial influence into the South Caucasus . The French diplomat not only highlighted this in his posts but expanded upon it by denying the Azerbaijani connection to Urmia , the largest city in the West Azerbaijan province of Iran and its capital city . <p> In the eyes of many , these social media posts highlight France 's open support for Persian hegemony in the region , in violation of the West 's interest to fight against the pro-Iranian axis , which presently spreads from Tehran to Lebanon , Gaza , Syria , Iraq , and Yemen . It is critical to recall that French President Emmanuel Macron called for Western countries to stop delivering weapons to Israel , two days before the anniversary of the October 7 terror attacks . <p> The fact that Macron is an open critic of Israel while at the same time deploying an ambassador who so openly posts on social media in favor of Tehran makes one pause to ponder -- where do Paris 's interests truly lie ? <p> " Just as Iran supports all parts of the Iranian terror axis , so are Israel 's friends expected to support Israel and not impose restrictions that will only strengthen the Iranian axis of evil , " Netanyahu told Macron about a month ago . <p> However , in May , France banned Israel from participating in Eurosatory , an international arms show held outside of Paris . A French court overturned that decision , but the legal ruling did not come in time for Israeli companies to participate in the exhibition . This , together with Decottignies 's social media posts , shows where France 's sympathies truly lie . <p> This comes amid Moscow 's diminishing influence in Armenia , a gap that is increasingly being filled by Iran , thus enabling Persian hegemony to expand in the region while Hezbollah is losing ground in Lebanon and Hamas is suffering severe losses in Gaza . Tehran moving into Yerevan to replace the Russian influence over Armenia has enabled the Iranian axis to stand strong against Western-imposed sanctions despite the defeats they suffered in Gaza and Lebanon . <p> For this reason , France 's support for Persian hegemony in Armenia further aids the Iranian axis at a time when everyone in Israel seeks to see Iran 's influence get weaker ; this is bad news from an Israeli standpoint . <p> The time has come for Paris to stand firm against Tehran , rather than aiding and abetting Israel 's enemies in Iran and their proxies , Hezbollah , Hamas , the Islamic Jihad , and the Houthis. 
@@118523235 <p> In mid-October , " Fauda " producer Liat Benasuly fired off an email to a group of nearly 100 people who had recently converged at former Paramount chief Sherry Lansing 's Los Angeles home . Attendees included " The Big Bang Theory " star Mayim Bialik and singer Montana Tucker , and the topic at hand was one rarely discussed outside of similar informal gatherings -- that Israeli content creators are increasingly becoming pariahs in the global marketplace . As a result , the next hit series like " Fauda , " " Homeland " or " Euphoria " could die on the vine . In the email , Benasuly issued a dire warning and solicited donations for a newly formed 501(c) ( 3 ) dubbed Friends of Israeli Film &amp; TV Producers Association . <h> Related Stories <p> " As you may know , a significant number of our investors and partners have paused their collaborations with Israeli storytellers and producers since October 7th , " she wrote . " Most projects in our industry now face a funding gap of approximately 20-30% . This funding gap has had a significant impact on our industry and the ability to create great content . This is a serious problem effecting sic an industry that has been one of the great stories out of Israel over the past decade+ . " <h> Popular on Variety <p> The unexpected plight of the country 's film and TV producers underscores a tense climate in the entertainment industry in the wake of last year 's Oct. 7 terror attack in Israel and that government 's ongoing military response in Gaza . In fact , both sides of the Israel divide say they are being boycotted and blacklisted as the conflict drags on in its second year and claim that secret dossiers are being kept by opposing camps to document who is deemed unhireable . On one hand , Israelis have become persona non-grata , particularly on the film festival front -- even when their work and social media profiles are apolitical . On the other hand , pro-Palestinian industryites who have been vocal on the topic are under siege and facing economic repercussions . <p> Susan Sarandon proved that even an Oscar winner with a thriving career is n't immune from the backlash when she was dropped by UTA last year after she said at a pro-Palestinian rally , " There are a lot of people that are afraid , that are afraid of being Jewish at this time , and are getting a taste of what it feels like to be a Muslim in this country , so often subjected to violence . " Her longtime agents at UTA moved quickly to cut ties with her . <p> " I do n't know how Nancy Gates and Shani Rosenzweig , friends and representatives for 10 years , came to the decisions to drop me , " Sarandon tells Variety . " Nancy informed me she was a Zionist as an explanation . I 've been politically active my entire life so for them to rush to Page Six at this particular time to make the announcement shows the intention of sensationalizing their decision . I believe everyone has a right to boycott . It 's one of the few useful tools voiceless populations have . " ( UTA has never publicly stated the reason for parting ways with the actress and declined comment for this story . ) <p> The career reverberations were immediate for Sarandon , who apologized for the remarks . " I have lost work , " she adds . " I have lost friends and family , but I have also gained inspiration from those who care enough about humanity and believe enough in the possibility of a better world to raise their voices to stop genocide . I 'm grateful for my new empathic , brave friends and family . I abhor violence against any population . Just as large of a threat is the crushing of our First Amendment rights . That is what makes fascism possible . No one is free until all of us our free . " <p> At the same time , Israeli filmmakers say their projects are being deliberately excluded on the festival circuit by gatekeepers , some of whom have signaled support for the Boycott , Divestment and Sanctions movement on social media . When the Toronto Film Festival kicked off on Sept. 5 , Israeli product was noticeably absent . The exception was Shemi Zarhin 's relationship drama " Bliss , " a last-minute addition that was not part of the initial lineup announcement on Aug. 6 that did include four films from Palestinian directors . TIFF did not respond to multiple requests for comment . <p> Similarly , Sundance last year rejected Israeli director Tom Nesher 's drama " Come Closer , " which centers on a young woman grappling with the accidental death of her brother . Sources say former Sundance Institute CEO Joana Vicente loved the drama , but programmers nixed it following heated deliberations . ( Sundance declined comment . ) The film was then submitted to Tribeca earlier this year , and a prescreening committee passed on it . Tribeca Enterprises chief Jane Rosenthal called for a reconsideration , and members of the senior programming team then screened the film and accepted it . ( Tribeca declined comment . ) <p> " Come Closer " went on to win the Viewpoints Award at Tribeca and has been embraced in Israel . It took the top prize at the Ophir film awards , the country 's equivalent of the Oscars , and will represent Israel as its selection for best international feature at the 97th Academy Awards . Still , it continues to face backlash along the festival circuit . Last month , pro-Palestinian activists in Greece demanded that the film be pulled from the Thessaloniki Film Festival . When it was n't , they protested at the event , calling the apolitical film a form of " artwashing . " <p> Veteran Hollywood dealmaker Craig Emanuel , who is the in-house counsel at Ryan Murphy Prods . and has advised Sundance in the past , says the festivals are n't even attempting to hide their new mandate . <p> " During my participation at the Jerusalem Film Festival in July , filmmakers and producers shared with me that they are being told by programmers for the major festivals , including Sundance and Toronto , that they are not comfortable taking Israeli films or documentaries at this point in time . Programmers are saying they are concerned about pushback and demonstrations regardless of whether a film is political or not , " Emanual says . " That 's just not a healthy thing for us as an industry or a society . " <p> If festival brass was hoping to avoid protests , they failed . A group descended on the Princess of Wales Theatre on TIFF 's opening night and voiced their displeasure with festival partner Royal Bank of Canada , chanting " RBC funds genocide " and interrupting the celebration . <p> On the flip side of the Israel divide , several people who spoke to Variety insist that Hollywood is punishing talent for voicing a pro-Palestinian viewpoint . Variety previously reported that Hollywood marketing guru Ashlee Margolis told staffers to refrain from working with anyone " posting against Israel . " Likewise , " Snow White " producer Marc Platt texted WME leadership asking why Boots Riley was still a client after the " Sorry to Bother You " writer-director called a screening of Hamas atrocities " murderous propaganda . " ( WME was unmoved , and Riley remains at the agency . ) <p> Meanwhile , others have lost jobs and representation . Spyglass fired Melissa Barrera from the " Scream " franchise over polarizing social media posts about the conflict . And CAA dropped an assistant as well as author clients Saira Rao and Regina Jackson shortly after the Oct. 7 attacks due to controversial public posts and statements about Israel . ( Rao declined to comment for this story but previously told Variety , " The genocide is indisputable . You can watch it on live TV . CAA will be on the wrong side of history . " ) . <p> Roger Waters became the highest-profile person to face career fallout . In January , BMG severed ties with the Pink Floyd co-founder over his long-standing criticism of Israel , which has drawn the condemnation of his former bandmate David Gilmour . The professional divorce between Waters and BMG , terms of which are still being settled , has enormous financial implications for both the music publisher and the artist . Waters says the Anti-Defamation League , a group with deep connections in Hollywood and that is represented by UTA , pressured BMG 's parent company Bertelsmann to drop him . " Of course it hurts me financially . " $50 million , $100 million . I 've no idea , " Waters tells Variety . " I was flabbergasted . I went , ' You 're kidding me ? ' ... ADL CEO Jonathan Greenblatt should n't be at the table for conversations about my professional career . " ( In response , Greenblatt says : " Let 's be clear , there 's a big difference between artists facing consequences for expressing antisemitism or other forms of hate compared to being shunned simply for where they come from or what religion they are . " ) <p> In fact , others say Hollywood has become inhospitable to Israelis , even fictitious ones . This past summer , Disney drew fire for whitewashing elements of superheroine Sabra/Ruth Bat-Seraph 's Israeli identity from its upcoming Marvel tentpole " Captain America : Brave New World , " with the character 's backstory as a Mossad agent excised . Sabra , who is played by Israeli actress Shira Haas , will now be a Widow . ( In the comic books , the Widows are KGB-trained ) . <p> " The whole idea of Marvel Studios in the last decade was trying to be more inclusive , like to feature a Muslim Pakistani with superhero Kamala Khan in ' The Marvels ' , " says Israeli influencer and thought leader Hen Mazzig . " But to change the character of an Israeli spy in the comics to a Russian spy , and thinking that this is better , like ' What world do we live in ? ' " <p> The Israeli directors , producers and actors who spoke to Variety claim they are being punished simply because of their nationality rather than for expressing a political stance . Some say festival programmers overtly told them that they are afraid of courting anti-Israeli protestors . <p> Shoval Tshuva says her short film " Funky , " a personal story about sexual assault , was pulled from multiple festivals , sometimes without explanation , in the aftermath of Oct. 7 . <p> " I made a film about the most dehumanizing experience that I ever had to go through . And in a way , I was so focused on being a woman and telling a female story that I forgot that I 'm Israeli and Jewish and that that comes with a whole other sort of discrimination , " Tshuva says . " The fact is Israeli filmmakers are getting systematically cancelled . " <p> Similarly , Dylan Joseph was shopping for a sales company to help find a distributor for his short film " French , " which follows intrigue at a nail salon . He approached one that had been recommended by some of his Israeli filmmaker friends who had worked with the company in the past . <p> " The guy who runs the sales agency responded , ' We 're not working with Israeli films now during the war as we work with a lot of Lebanese and Palestinian filmmakers , ' " Joseph says . " In other words , he was basically telling me to fuck off and that there 's no room for Israeli cinema right now . ' " ( Variety has viewed the exchange . ) <p> All the while , Israelis say their job prospects have dimmed significantly over the past year . Dana Schneider , a commercials producer whose credits include spots for Budweiser and Trip Advisor , feels like a pariah . <p> " I was having the busiest year in my career up until October , and then I just watched it crumble within a matter of weeks , " says Schneider . " The reason why is insinuated . It 's not in-your-face clear . And that 's what makes it so insidious and makes you doubt it . It could be something else . It could be a million other things . But deep down , your gut is telling you something 's not right here . " <p> With the war in Gaza showing no sign of ending , some believe the muzzling of speech and arbitrary boycotts will hurt the film community . <p> " What kind of bland and uninteresting art will be made at a time when artists are constantly looking over their shoulders ? " Sarandon asks . <p> Waters says the entertainment industry has been eager to distance itself from any viewpoints that deviate from the non-offensive middle for some time . Back at the 2014 edition of TIFF , he debuted his concert film " Roger Waters : The Wall , " which received a rapturous response . <p> " After the showing , some bloke from Netflix came up to management and said , ' This is fantastic . Love the movie . We definitely want to do a deal . I 'll call you in the morning , ' " he recalls . " Next morning , they did n't call . So , my management called and was told , ' Actually , I 'm not sure this is quite right for Netflix . " <p> Waters can envision the flurry of calls in between . " ' Are you crazy ? You are not doing business with Roger Waters . He 's on the blacklist , ' " he quips . <p> Despite a 100% Rotten Tomatoes score , the film inexplicably never found a theatrical distributor . 
@@118543327 <h> Topline <p> Israeli President Isaac Herzog recently called Elon Musk to revive negotiations for the release of hostages held in Gaza , according to multiplereports on Friday , after President-elect Donald Trump warned earlier this week there would be " hell to pay " in the Middle East if the remaining hostages were not freed before his inauguration next month . <p> President Donald Trump warned there would be " hell to pay " if the remaining hostages were not ... + released before his inauguration . <p> 2024 Getty Images <h> Key Facts <p> Herzog spoke with Musk " in the last few days " at the request of hostage family members , who believed the world 's wealthiest person would be able to help secure a deal because of his relationship with Trump , CNN reported , citing sources close to Herzog and the hostage families . <p> The conversation included talks about placing " pressure wherever pressure can be placed " to ensure the issue is more visible , a person familiar with the conversation told the Financial Times . <p> Musk 's ownership of X , formerly known as Twitter , was another reason Herzog reached out to him , the Times reported , as Musk is a " key figure of one of the most important social media platforms for awareness and narrative . " <h> Big Number <p> 100 . That 's the estimated number of hostages remaining in Gaza , though about a third of them are believed to be dead , according to the Associated Press . <h> Surprising Fact <p> Musk met with some hostage family members in November 2023 while meeting with Herzog and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in Israel . The billionaire traveled to Israel shortly after Musk appeared to support an antisemitic post on X , causing several companies -- including Apple , Disney and IBM , among others -- to pull advertising from the social media platform . During his visit , Musk called for a stop to the spread of pro-Hamas propaganda that is " convincing people to engage in murder . " <h> Key Background <p> The Gaza-based militant group Hamas took about 240 people hostage after attacking Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , though more than 100 were released after an earlier ceasefire deal . Negotiations for another ceasefire and the release of more hostages have stalled since last year , despite efforts by the Biden administration to restart negotiations . Trump has reportedly spoken with Israeli officials in recent weeks to discuss Israel 's plans in the Middle East , including unspecified issues Trump wanted resolved before and after his inauguration . In a Truth Social post earlier this week , Trump said there would be " hell to pay in the Middle East " if the remaining hostages were not freed by Jan. 20 , 2025 . " Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit " in U.S. history , Trump added . Herzog responded to the post , saying : " We all pray for the moment we see our sisters and brothers back home ! " The Hamas-run Palestinian Health Ministry estimates more than 45,000 people have died during the conflict , according to Al Jazeera . <h> Forbes Valuation <p> Musk is the world 's richest person with an estimated net worth of $346.3 billion . Musk , who appeared alongside Trump at several events during his campaign , was Trump 's largest donor after giving more than $200 million to help get him elected . 
@@118544423 <p> Sign up for the Slatest to get the most insightful analysis , criticism , and advice out there , delivered to your inbox daily . <p> President-elect Donald Trump has threatened to implement a slate of controversial policies in his second term , including military strikes on Mexican drug cartels , restrictions on abortion pills , a new " Muslim ban , " immigration raids , and mass deportations . Any one of these moves is likely to bring tens of thousands of protesters onto the streets . Trump has made it clear he will meet opposition with force . A major player in that crackdown will be the Federal Protective Service , a little-known but powerful law-enforcement agency that the Heritage Foundation 's Project 2025 identifies as key to quashing dissent . Congress , as well as state and local authorities , must act urgently to prevent its weaponization against the president 's political opponents . <p> The FPS is part of the Department of Homeland Security . Its officers carry guns and make arrests just like other police -- with the difference being that Congress has empowered the agency to bring in additional forces from among the department 's 90,000 other law-enforcement officers . The homeland security secretary can assign those officers to work directly for the FPS at a moment 's notice , augmenting its police force with huge numbers of personnel who have received little more than cursory training to execute domestic law-enforcement functions . <p> The agency was at the heart of the heavy-handed response to racial-justice demonstrations in Portland , Oregon , in 2020 , when the first Trump administration sent hundreds of officers -- including 300 Border Patrol special forces agents -- to suppress crowds engaged in largely peaceful protests protected by the U.S. Constitution . Instead of leaving local police to deal with any trouble , federal officers shoved protesters into unmarked vans , compiled dossiers on individuals to drive potential prosecutions , spied on journalists , and took to the nightly news to attack the protests . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> In 2020 I was a DHS attorney . I advised the department 's intelligence officers who operated in Portland and participated in internal postmortem reviews that identified how politicized targeting and chaotic processes invited abuse . Regrettably , nothing has changed at the FPS in the past four years to prevent abuses like these from recurring , as I wrote in a recent report for the Brennan Center for Justice . <p> Advertisement <p> The FPS 's core mission is a far cry from what happened in Portland . Its basic job is to guard thousands of federal buildings , including courthouses and agencies that provide Social Security benefits , housing , and other governmental services . Millions of people access and work in these buildings daily . They deserve to do so safely . <p> But a post -- Sept. 11 reorganization pushed the agency well beyond that security mandate and laid the groundwork for abuse . The 2002 Homeland Security Act authorized its officers to work off-site to the extent " necessary " to protect federal property but did not define that term . Weak internal safeguards have led to sweeping off-site operations . The secretary of homeland security can also direct the agency to take actions " for the promotion of homeland security , " giving officials wide latitude to determine what those actions might be . <h> Related From Slate <p> The 2020 Portland operation was not the only time the Federal Protective Service has targeted Americans for exercising their First Amendment rights . In 2015 , too , the agency sent hundreds of federal officers into Baltimore to police Black Lives Matter demonstrators and , years later , arrested and threatened to criminally charge a Texas woman who criticized the overturning of Roe v. Wade on social media . The agency has routinely monitored political views expressed online and people planning political events that lacked any plausible connection to federal property , from Occupy Wall Street protests in New York to anti-vaccine truckers to recent protests over the war in Gaza on college campuses . The agency often relies on secretive intelligence contractors to do this work . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> In Trump 's second term , we 're likely to see much more of this kind of activity . Indeed , Project 2025 calls on Trump to make the FPS directly responsive to the DHS 's political leadership , a dictate that would leave the agency even more vulnerable to weaponization . <p> The federal government can take immediate steps to protect against overreach . Before its current term runs out , Congress should prohibit the use of specialized police like Border Patrol for domestic law enforcement . Border special forces simply do not belong on American streets policing protesters . Congress should also eliminate the authority to deploy the FPS in undefined activities for the " promotion " of homeland security -- an open-ended , easily abused power . And the Biden administration should promptly release all policies and guidance governing the agency 's operations to help the public understand what the coming months will bring . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Cities and states have a critical role to play as well . The Department of Homeland Security often supercharges its sweeping law-enforcement operations by tapping into state and local resources , such as databases , intelligence facilities , and personnel . To protect constituents , elected leaders should enact laws limiting such cooperation . The Brennan Center has developed a set of principles for state and local governments to adopt , which can serve as a starting point for such efforts . <p> The Federal Protective Service has an important mission to safeguard governmental facilities , but it is also a proven tool for politically driven targeting . Trump has promised to go after his " enemies from within " and praised police crackdowns on dissent . A broad mandate and lack of meaningful safeguards at the FPS will position the agency to take a leading role . Serious change is overdue . 
@@118545329 <p> Iran is prepared to " quite dramatically " grow its levels of near weapons-grade uranium , the head of the United Nation 's ( UN ) nuclear agency has warned . <p> Speaking from the sidelines of the International Institute of Strategic Studies ' Manama Dialogue in Bahrain on Friday , Rafael Mariano Grossi , who runs the International Atomic Energy Agency ( IAEA ) expressed his concerns about Iran 's plan to install 6,000 new centrifuges . <p> Tehran currently enriches uranium at 60% , a little short of weapons-grade levels of 90% . <p> " I think it is very concerning , " Grossi said . " If they really make them turn -- all of them -- it 's going to be a huge jump . " <p> His comments came hours after Iran successfully launched a Simorgh rocket with its highest ever payload . Although Iran insists its space programme is peaceful , its critics think such tests enhance its ballistic missile programme . <p> Last week , Richard Moore , head of MI6 , the British foreign intelligence service , said Iran was still a threat to other countries , despite the blows its allies in Syria , Lebanon and Gaza have suffered in recent months . 
@@118557224 <h> For 14 months , an end to Israeli military operations in Gaza was Hezbollah 's condition for ceasing its attacks , which have claimed the lives of 45 civilians in Israel 's North . <p> KIRYAT SHMONA is still a ghost town . Shops are shuttered and unmanned military vehicles are scattered around Israel 's northernmost city . ( photo credit : Nicholas potter ) <p> Two days after the ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah came into effect , Kiryat Shmona was still a ghost town . Shops were shuttered . A high-rise apartment building in the center looked abandoned . <p> Unmanned military vehicles were scattered around Israel 's northernmost city , situated just 5 km. south and 2 km. east of the border with Lebanon . Before the evacuation , it was home to some 20,000 residents . Now , only the faint buzz of drones swirling high above filled the eerily quiet streets . <p> On October 8 , 2023 , the Islamist terrorist organization began launching rockets and artillery at border communities in the North , displacing more than 96,000 Israelis living within firing range . In Kiryat Shmona , dozens of family homes were directly hit and over 1,000 more damaged . Schools , kindergartens , and the central bus station were also struck . <p> Hezbollah framed the attacks as an act of solidarity with Hamas , who led an assault in the South of Israel on October 7 , killing some 1,200 people and abducting 250 to Gaza . According to the IDF , Hezbollah had planned to unleash similar carnage in the North . Israel responded with drone strikes and artillery fire , preventing further attacks but also displacing more than a million Lebanese and killing at least 3,768 , according to Lebanon 's health ministry , which does not differentiate between Hezbollah terrorists and civilians . <p> For 14 months , an end to Israeli military operations in Gaza was Hezbollah 's condition for ceasing its attacks , which have claimed the lives of 45 civilians in Israel 's North . But after the IDF decapitated Hezbollah 's leadership in September and launched a ground invasion in October , the terrorist organization softened its demands , and a 60-day ceasefire was brokered , with the war in Gaza far from over . <p> At least in Gonen , prewar population 372 , a kibbutz on the northern border just outside the pre-ceasefire evacuation zone , life is slowly returning to normal . Past the yellow gate protected by a lone , armed guard , past the burned-out Syrian tank from the Yom Kippur war in 1973 , Ayelet Lev , 50 , was sitting at home in her kitchen , looking out the window at the backdrop of the Lebanese mountains . " This view is one of the reasons I love living here , " she says triumphantly . <h> Casualties of war <p> AFTER OCTOBER 7 , her family evacuated to the Kinneret ( the Sea of Galilee ) . Lev called her dog 's name , Louis , and a one-eyed terrier jumps onto her lap . " We say he 's the first war casualty in this family , " she jests . He was attacked by another dog after the relocation . <p> ' I SAID , we 're staying , I do n't care . ' For Ayelet Lev , the worst thing about the past 14 months was not the rockets but the emptiness of the region . ( credit : Nicholas Potter ) <p> Lev , her husband and four kids lasted a month at the Kinneret before moving back to Gonen . " I said , we 're staying , I do n't care , " Lev recalls . " I will never leave here , even if more rockets fall . It 's my house and I love it , " she adds defiantly . And then the tears started . " People who stayed here really felt the war " -- the sirens , rocket barrages , explosions , and hours spent in safe rooms . <p> When asked about the recent ceasefire , Lev took a deep breath . " It 's complicated , " she says . " On the one hand , I want this war to stop , because every soldier who lost his life is one too many . " Her 18-year-old son is about to enlist . " I do n't want him to go there or to Gaza . " And her 12-year-old daughter has been left afraid by the constant barrage of rockets . But on the other hand , she says , many soldiers have told her that they want more time to finish what they started -- referring to dismantling Hezbollah 's rich arsenal along the border . " You can never trust Hezbollah , " she says . <p> Yet for Lev , the worst thing about the past 14 months was not the rockets but the emptiness of the Galilee . " Everything is abandoned . Friends were evacuated to hotels and are still afraid to come back , " she says . Some are reluctant to take their children out of the new schools they have been relocated to , in order to move back . Her own decision to return was not out of bravery , Lev says , but because she can not think of living anywhere else . <p> It 's not difficult to see why . Despite two military helicopters circling overhead and the occasional deep boom in the distance , even after the ceasefire , Gonen is an idyllic place . Vast swaths of green fields are crowned by mountain ridges . The air is fresh , the kibbutz community close-knit . It provides a sense of familiarity and , paradoxically , perhaps even security . Lev drives around it in a golf cart . <p> Before the war , Lev worked with people with special needs and trauma , assisting them in finding employment or starting businesses . But after a rocket fell on her office and her clients were evacuated , she was left without a job . Now , she volunteers , giving massages to soldiers stationed nearby . " I am so proud to be part of this community , this country , " she says . " Since the war , I have met such brave people . " <p> Lev is just one of many volunteering in the North . In Lahavot Habashan , a neighboring kibbutz , some 350 cooks set up an impromptu kitchen to feed up to 1,000 troops . Tables stacked with canned goods sit above crates filled with eggplants and bread . " I 'm here for the good food , " grins one young soldier with a pita in his hand . " We do n't know if Hezbollah will hold the ceasefire , but we 're ready , " says another . <p> Liat , 55 , seemed to be in charge of the operation . " They are away from home and I have to be a mother to them , " she says . But the money raised to fund the kitchen is drying up , Liat explains . <p> When asked whether military catering is not the responsibility of the government , her tone became noticeably irritated . " You want to talk about what the government should do ? The government should bring the hostages home , but instead they are only thinking about themselves . " <p> Liat was particularly critical of Sara Netanyahu , the prime minister 's wife . " She is now claiming she is a victim of terror because protesters fired a flare near her house , " she says in disbelief . " I teach pottery , and one of my students is from Metulla , at the Lebanese border . She visited her house yesterday for the first time since the ceasefire , and it 's destroyed . She is broken . There 's nothing left . And Sara Netanyahu wants to be the victim here ? " <p> It 's a frustration felt by many along the northern border . The fallout from October 7 has ushered in a new , ambivalent reality , one marked by equal parts hope and despair . <p> " Since the war , my bond to the region has become stronger , " says Nitzan Lavi , 38 , sitting at home in the 700-strong community of Kfar Szold , a kibbutz just north of Lev 's home in Gonen , " but also my bond to being Israeli and being Jewish . " <p> Lavi 's father immigrated to Israel from Iraq . Now she works in hi-tech . And her generation was the one that began to forget just how fragile everything is , she says . " We thought we could live in London , in Berlin , anywhere , but since October 7 , we have come to understand that this just is n't the case . " <h> ' We are on our own here ' <p> But Kfar Szold is far from a safe haven . As Hamas and other terrorist groups stormed the Gaza border on October 7 , Lavi wondered whether her community would be next . As the ensuing war began , Lavi , her partner and two boys sought safety elsewhere further south . <p> After a month , they returned home , along with many other kibbutzniks . Residents of Kfar Szold , just outside the evacuation zone , received no government help , Lavi criticizes . " We are on our own here . " For some , financial considerations played a role in their return , unable to sell their homes in the foreseeable future due to the war . <p> RESIDENTS OF Kfar Szold , just outside the evacuation zone , have received no government help , Nitzan Lavi told ' The Jerusalem Post . ' ( credit : Nicholas Potter ) TODAY , KFAR SZOLD was quiet . But for the past 14 months , Lavi and her partner had been unable to leave the gated kibbutz , a leafy , hilly community nestled next to the Golan Heights , as Hezbollah rockets are less likely to be intercepted over open rural areas . Loud explosions occurred day and night , she recalls . Visits to the safe room were frequent . <p> The community grew closer together as a result , Lavi explains , opening a local pub and distilling its own arak . The kibbutzniks also set up an education center , where volunteers teach kids . " We also celebrated Passover together as a kibbutz , for the first time in 20 or 30 years . " Lavi finds it heartwarming how her community has come together , during the hardest of times . " Maybe we 're finding our way back to what a kibbutz once was , to this feeling of solidarity , " she says . <p> After the ceasefire announcement , one of the first things Lavi and her partner did was to go for a walk with their dog along the nearby Banyas River , one of their favorite spots . It was a return to normality after so many months of sirens . But the 20 small concrete bunkers installed since October 7 and dotted around the kibbutz are a continuous reminder that this rural tranquility can be broken at any minute , in an area in which residents have just seconds to seek shelter after rocket fire . <p> " It was n't the feeling of relief that we were all hoping to have , " Lavi says of the recent ceasefire announcement , which her nine-year-old son , scared , had eagerly awaited . Lavi also remains skeptical of the UN peace keeping force UNIFIL , which had failed to prevent Hezbollah from rearming along the border , and which she says she does not trust . " There was n't a moment of celebration and excitement . It 's not over . It 's definitely not peace . " <p> The ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah , just days old , has already been broken several times . On Monday , the terrorist organization fired rockets at Mount Dov on the Golan Heights , citing Israeli breaches of the ceasefire . Israel , which responded on Monday with a wave of airstrikes throughout Lebanon directed at rocket launchers , says it had been targeting Hezbollah terrorists breaching the ceasefire themselves . <p> " From a security perspective , we highly appreciate the military achievements of the IDF in Lebanon , " says Sarit Zehavi , a reservist lieutenant colonel in the IDF and founder of the NGO Alma , which specializes in security policy on the northern border . " But we are afraid that these achievements will be eroded very quickly . " <p> Zehavi warns that Hezbollah will use the ceasefire to rearm and recover , eventually posing a similar threat as before . Zehavi , who herself lives just 9 kilometers from the Lebanese border , stresses the need for a complementary diplomatic agreement that ensures the Lebanese government truly has a new approach to Hezbollah , which operates as a highly armed shadow state within the country . <p> " But the main address here is not Beirut , " Zehavi adds , " but Tehran . " Hezbollah was established in the 1980s under the auspices of the mullah regime in Iran , which has provided it with ample funding ever since . " Only once Iran is no longer involved in Lebanon will there be more hope for peace in the region . " <p> Zehavi is at least happy that her daughter can finally return to her school after the ceasefire . " But especially those with children wo n't return just yet , " she says , " at least not during the current school year , " which does not end until June 2025 . <p> Yael Cohen and her family can not imagine moving back to their home in Kibbutz Eilon , just 3 kilometers from the Lebanese border , at least not for the foreseeable future . Having grown up there , Cohen was well acquainted with the usual skirmishes along the border . But on October 7 , 2023 , she , her wife and nine-year-old son barricaded themselves in their bedroom , terrified that the scenes along the Gazan border could also be repeated in the North . The next morning , they were evacuated to Jerusalem . <p> " We were terrified , but we felt lucky , " Cohen , a 38-year-old volleyball coach , recalls . Lucky to have escaped , to have survived . After five months at her parents ' house , they relocated in March 2024 to the suburbs of Seattle in the US . " We feel good here , " she says via telephone . Her son had to start English from scratch , but quickly integrated at school . <p> As news of an impending ceasefire broke , Cohen did not take it seriously , she says . " And I still do n't . " Although some residents are now returning to Eilon , she no longer feels safe there . In Seattle , Cohen and her family sleep safe and sound , she says . " A bubble has burst , and it changes everything . " Even if she one day hopes to return . 
@@118557232 <h> Iraq considers Syrian intervention as rebels advance <p> Raising the opposition flag at the Aleppo Citadel in the center of the old city of Aleppo , Syria , Dec. 1 , 2024. ( photo credit : Moaid Ismaeil/The Media Line ) <p> Iraqi Shi'ite Muslim ruling parties and armed groups are weighing the pros and cons of armed intervention in Syria , viewing as a grave threat the advance of Sunni Islamist rebels who have taken two Syrian cities and now bear down on a third . <p> Baghdad has a dark history with Syria-based Sunni fighters , thousands of whom crossed into Iraq after the 2003 US invasion and fueled years of sectarian killing before returning again in 2013 as Islamic State to conquer a third of the country . <p> The Syrian rebels currently advancing in Syria , led by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , have disavowed Al Qaeda and IS and say they have no ambitions in Iraq , but the ruling factions in Iraq have little trust in those assertions . <p> Iraq has amassed on its border with Syria thousands of fighters from its conventional military as well as the Popular Mobilization Forces ( PMF ) , a security agency containing many Iran-aligned armed groups that previously fought in Syria . <p> The orders so far are to defend Iraq 's western flank , rather than to intervene to help Syrian President Bashar al-Assad , according to an Iraqi Shi'ite politician , a government adviser and an Arab diplomat briefed on the matter . A rebel led by the Islamist militant group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham stands in the back of a vehicle in al-Rashideen , Aleppo province , Syria November 29 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/Mahmoud Hasano ) <h> Subject to change <p> But the calculation could change , at least for some Iraqi factions , depending on developments , including if the rebels take the major Syrian city of Homs , if Assad falls , or if Shi'ites are persecuted , the sources said . <p> Iraqi government spokesperson Bassem Al-Awadi said Iraq does not seek military intervention in Syria but described the division of Syria as a " red line " for Iraq , without elaborating . <p> Reuters previously reported that hundreds of Iraqi fighters had crossed into Syria to help bolster Assad 's forces , joining Iraqi and Lebanese Hezbollah fighters already in the country , but there has not yet been a mass mobilization from Iraq . <p> The country 's government , led by moderate Prime Minister Mohammed Shia al-Sudani , has tried desperately to avoid being dragged into the spiraling regional conflict that has come with the Gaza war , instead trying to focus on rebuilding after decades of war . <p> " The Iraqi government 's stance from the beginning has been that Iraq is not a side in this crisis , " said Falih al-Fayadh , leader of the PMF , in a televised speech on Friday . <p> " But it is not wise for there to be a fire in your neighbor 's house while you sleep , reassured without thinking of what might happen , " he said . <h> Sudani seeks to avoid conflict <p> Iraq , which is led by a coalition of mostly Shi'ite political parties and armed groups close to Iran , is a major player in Tehran 's so-called Axis of Resistance that includes Hamas in Gaza and Lebanese Hezbollah . <p> Israeli onslaughts have heavily impaired the latter two players , so some analysts believe that the tens of thousands of hardened fighters in Iraq 's armed formations are now the force in Iran 's network of allies best-placed to intervene in Syria . <p> Iraq 's ruling coalition is often pulled in different directions , with some groups that fought alongside Assad in the past and have interests in Syria more partial to entering again , while other parties see such an intervention as destabilizing . <p> At a joint news conference , Hussein condemned attacks by " terrorist entities " in Syria and Araqchi pledged to provide Syria with all the support it needed . <p> The leader of the Syrian rebels , Abu Mohammad al-Golani , himself began his fighting career with Al Qaeda in Iraq , where he was imprisoned by the US , before moving to Syria to set up the extremist group 's franchise there . <p> Golani split from Al Qaeda in 2016 and on Thursday urged Sudani to prevent the PMF from intervening in Syria , saying in a video posted online that the rebels wanted to have strategic and economic ties to Iraq once they toppled Assad 's regime . <p> " They may claim to be in a different mood and a different group , but they very much look the same from Iraq , " the government adviser said . 
@@118557233 <h> The rebels captured the cities of Hama and Aleppo within a week and even released prisoners from Hama 's central prison . <p> A view from Hama city as anti-regime armed groups have captured the city , seizing the city center , solidifying control , and forcing regime forces to concede the city on December 5 , 2024 ( photo credit : Kasim Rammah/Anadolu via Getty Images ) <p> Syrian rebels reached the city limits of Homs , making last call for Syrian forces to defect , rebels said on Telegram . <p> In a parallel setback for Assad , a US-backed alliance led by Syrian Kurdish fighters took Deir el-Zor , the government 's main foothold in the vast desert in the east of the country , three Syrian sources told Reuters on Friday . <p> The Wall Street Journal reported that Assad was still in Syria on Friday . His children and his wife went to Russia last week , and other members of his family left for the United Arab Emirates , Syrian and Arab officials told the WSJ . <p> The sources said that Egyptian and Jordanian officials are imploring Assad to form a government in exile . <p> If Islamist insurgents captured Homs in their lightning new offensive , it would cut off the capital Damascus from the coast , a longtime redoubt of Assad 's minority Alawite sect and where his Russian allies have a naval base and air base . <p> Rebel factions successfully seized control of the city of Aleppo , Syria , on November 30 , 2024 , after intense clashes and fierce battles with Assad regime forces . ( credit : Rami Alsayed/NurPhoto via Getty Images ) <p> Syrian rebel factions said on Saturday that they took over the southern city of Daraa after they reached a deal with the army to secure its orderly withdrawal , rebel sources said . <p> They said senior security and army officials serving in the city were given safe passage to Damascus . <h> Middle east in a flux state <p> In a further setback for Assad , a US-backed alliance led by Syrian Kurdish fighters has taken Deri el-Zor , the government 's main foothold in the vast desert east of the country , three Syrian sources told Reuters on Friday . <p> After years locked behind frozen front lines , rebel forces have burst out of their northwestern Idlib bastion to achieve the swiftest battlefield advance by either side since a street uprising against Assad mushroomed into civil war 13 years ago . <p> The head of the Syrian faction leading the sweeping assault told CNN that his group - a former Al-Qaeda affiliate now known as Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) - aimed to " build Syria " and bring Syrian refugees back home from Lebanon and Europe . <p> It was Abu Mohammed Al-Golani 's first interview since his group began seizing territory from Assad 's forces on Nov. 27 . <p> HTS broke from Al-Qaeda in 2016 , says it poses no threat to the West and has spent years trying to moderate its image , presenting itself as a viable alternative to the Assad family 's 54-year authoritarian rule . <p> Saudi news channel Al Hadath reported that the rebels ' advance came without any significant resistance , meaning they had successfully entered the towns of Talbiseh and Rastan in the Homs countryside and captured them . <p> The rebels ' sweep has taken the region by surprise and emboldened other opponents of Assad . Syrian rebel commander Hassan Abdul Ghany urged top military officers to defect , in a video statement aired on Friday . <p> Piling on the pressure , two Syrian army sources said the alliance known as the Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) had swept through the nearby Albu Kamal border crossing with Iraq . <p> In southern Deraa province , Syrian local fighters and former rebels overran one of the main army bases , known as Liwa 52 , near Herak town as fighting spread to the southern border with Jordan , two rebel sources told Reuters on Friday . <p> They also seized parts of the Nassib border crossing with Jordan near the customs section , where dozens of trailers and passenger cars were stranded , sources added . <p> A senior Iranian official meanwhile said Tehran , which has been focused on tensions with arch-foe Israel since the Gaza war began , would send missiles , drones , and more advisers to Syria . <p> " It is likely that Tehran will need to send military equipment , missiles and drones to Syria ... Tehran has taken all necessary steps to increase the number of its military advisers in Syria and deploy forces , " the senior Iranian official said on condition of anonymity . <p> " Now , Tehran is providing intelligence and satellite support to Syria . " <p> Hezbollah sent a small number of " supervising forces " from Lebanon to Syria overnight to help prevent anti-government fighters from seizing Homs , two senior Lebanese security sources told Reuters . However , Hezbollah has been notably weakened in the past several months after extensive IDF operations in southern Lebanon . <h> Concerns in Israel <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has convened a discussion on the situation in Syria , following discussions between Defense Minister Israel Katz , Chief of Staff Herzi Halevi , and senior IDF General Staff officials . <p> According to KAN , there is concern in Israel 's security establishment that the rebels will reach southern Syria , before arriving at the Israeli border in the Golan Heights . <p> Israel is also concerned that it does not see any significant resistance from Assad 's army , leading to fears that Syrian military weapons will fall into the hands of the rebels , which could also fall into the hands of Hezbollah . <p> The Israeli military said it was reinforcing aerial and ground forces in the Golan Heights in southwest Syria and was prepared for all scenarios , Reuters reported . <p> On Thursday night , the IAF conducted strikes on Hezbollah 's weapon-smuggling routes near the Syrian regime 's crossings at the Syrian-Lebanese border . The IDF said it will not tolerate threats near the Lebanon-Syria border and will thwart any threat against the State of Israel . <h> Arab world <p> Arab social media on Friday morning circulated footage of the rebels in Syria approaching Homs , the country 's third-largest city . <p> Good morning from a free Talbisah , just 10km north of Homs city ! Yesterday , Talbisah and Al-Rastan were freed from within . Brave locals armed themselves and ousted Assad 's forces , reclaiming their towns . We are now in a hardcore anti-Assad territories . Homs battle will be easier . **26;1396;TOOLONG <p> Speaking to reporters after Friday prayers , Erdogan said he had still not received a positive response from Assad to a call he made earlier this year to meet and normalize ties . <p> " The advances of the opposition are continuing as of now ... Our hope is that this walk in Syria continues without any issues , " he said <p> HTS rebels said they had also taken over the towns of Talbisa and Rastan , bringing them within miles ( km ) of Homs . <p> The Syrian military said there was no truth to reports it had withdrawn from Homs , saying in a statement it was deployed along " steady and solid defense lines " there . <p> A resident of Homs earlier said the offices of Syria 's main security branches there had emptied , with members exiting the city . <p> The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , a UK-based monitoring group , said thousands of people had begun fleeing from Homs on Thursday night towards the Mediterranean coastal regions of Latakia and Tartus , strongholds of the government . <p> A coastal resident said thousands of people had begun arriving there from Homs , fearing the rebels ' rapid advance . <p> Wasim Marouh , a Homs resident who decided not to leave , said most of its main commercial streets were largely desertedwhile pro-government militia groups patrolled the area . <p> Rebels led by HTS have sought to capitalize on their swift takeover of Aleppo in the north and Hama in west-central Syria by pressing onwards to Homs , another 40 km ( 24 miles ) south . <p> A rebel operations room urged Homs residents in an online post to rise up , saying : " Your time has come . " <p> Russian bombing overnight destroyed the Rastan bridge along the M5 highway , the main route to Homs , to prevent rebels using it to advance , a Syrian army officer told Reuters . <p> Government forces were bringing reinforcements to positions around Homs , he added . 
@@118582932 <p> Syrian rebels said they 've seized a key southwestern city close to the border with Jordan and claimed to be closing in on the capital of Damascus as they carried on a lightning-fast offensive that threatens to further destabilize a region already convulsed by war . <p> Ghani followed that post with a subsequent post on X claiming HTS had secured the city centers of Daraa , Sweida , and Quneitra . <p> " ? The Military Operations Department has completed combing and securing the city centers of Daraa , Sweida , and Quneitra , thus announcing that the centers of the three southern governorates are completely liberated and free of the criminal regime forces , " the post stated . <p> Video verified by NBC News showed people in Jaramana , a Damascus suburb , tearing down a bust of Hafez Al-Assad , father of president Bashar Al-Assad . The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights ( SOHR ) , a U.K.-based war monitor , said Saturday that Jaramana was no longer controlled by the Syrian government . <p> Earlier , HTS said it had " completely liberated " the city of Daraa , a symbolic and strategic victory for the rebels as the place where pro-democracy protests in 2011 sparked the country 's ongoing civil war , while it is also an important crossing on the border . <p> It is very difficult for independent journalists to operate in Syria and NBC Could not independently verify the rebels ' claims . <p> The rebels ' seizure of Daraa also comes after HTS claimed Friday that it had advanced to the edge of the city of Homs , a key crossroads connecting Damascus to government strongholds on the Mediterranean coast . <p> " To Our Brave Rebels . You are now at the gates of Homs and Damascus , and the fall of the criminal regime is closer than ever . I renew my advice to you , brothers , to show mercy , kindness , and gentleness to our people in the cities and villages you enter as humble conquerors , " the general command leader Ahmed Al-Sharaa said on Telegram Saturday . <p> " To the Soldiers and Officers of the Assad Regime , Whoever stays at home , closes their door , and remains silent is safe . Those who announce their defection from the criminal regime , lay down their weapons , and surrender themselves are also safe , " Al-Sharaa said . <p> Russia and Iran have long supported Assad , with Russia maintaining a military presence including the naval base at Tartus . But both nations ' influence has been weakened by broader regional tensions , including Israel 's war in Gaza and clashes with Hezbollah in Lebanon , and Russia 's yearslong war with Ukraine . <p> H.A . Hellyer , a senior associate fellow at the Royal United Services Institute , a London-based think tank , told NBC News on a phone call Saturday that it 's " pretty much the end game for Assad " if the rebels take Homs . <p> " Once they get Homs , then really Damascus is cut off and they 'll all be centered around Damascus and Latakia on the coast . " <p> If the strategically important municipality of Homs were to fall , it would leave three of the country 's five largest cities in the hands of the forces led by HTS , and no major cities between rebel forces and Damascus . <p> But Hellyer said there was not yet a definitive outcome to the conflict despite the rebels ' rapid advance . <p> " It comes down to how much fighting spirit there is left in this rump of the Syrian army , " he added . " How much they feel they can hold out in terms of support from the the Russians and the Iranians , which has n't been forthcoming . " <p> Syria 's army said Saturday morning that it had begun to take control in the provinces of Homs and Hama against what it called " terrorist organizations . " <p> An anti government fighter poses for a picture in front of one of the water wheels , or norias , of Hama.OMAR HAJ KADOUR / AFP - Getty Images <p> Various reports from around the country also suggested that the fall of Aleppo and Hama , as well other cities such as Idlib and numerous rural settlements , has significantly strained Assad 's forces as fighting between government troops and various rebel groups raged around the country . <p> Pro-Assad soldiers were also battling Kurdish forces who seized government positions in eastern Syria near the cities of Raqqa and Deir Ez-Zour , the Observatory said . <p> To the south of the country , state media quoted Jordan 's interior ministry as saying that it was closing its Jaber border crossing to all outgoing traffic " due to the security conditions surrounding southern Syria . " <p> The observatory said Saturday that Syrian government forces had withdrawn from Israeli-controlled Golan Heights for the first time since Israel captured the area from Syria in the 1967 Mideast war and annexed it in 1981 . <p> The observatory says more than 820 people , including 111 civilians , have been killed across the country since the rebels began their offensive . 
@@118583328 <h> Opinion An Endgame In Syria <p> Deep-rooted structural factors make Syria prone to sudden convulsions , such as the recent emergence of Hai'at Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS , in English Syria Liberation Organisation ) . Its 23 million population has a Sunni majority with a significant presence of Shias , Druze and Syrian Christians . Being an ethnic Kaleidoscope has made it vulnerable to sectarian tensions and foreign sponsors ' manipulation causing instability since the Crusades in the medieval era . It is at a civilisation faultline straddling three Sunni blocks : Turkey , Egypt and the Gulf , as well as a bridge between Shia-majority Lebanon , Iraq and Iran . <p> A 13-Year-Long Civil War <p> The Al-Assad family of the Alawi sect of Shia Islam has ruled Syria for over 50 years . The regime formally professes to Ba'ath party ideology of Pan-Arab nationalism . It has faced Arab Spring 's most persistent and bloody politico-military insurrection since 2011 , which has killed up to half a million Syrians , displaced 7 million internally and forced 6.4 million into exile abroad from the country 's 23.5 million population . The 13-year-long civil war has caused material damage of nearly 500 billion dollars . All this notwithstanding , President Bashar al-Assad 's government has tenaciously survived so far , thanks largely to robust military assistance from Russia , Iran and Lebanon 's Hezbollah militia . His regime has been in control of most of the country for the past five years , keeping at bay at least 49 militias , mostly Sunni outfits holed up in a 4 million-strong Idlib exclusion zone in the northwest bordering Turkey , which protects them . The instability in Iraq , Lebanon and Gaza has also permeated into Syria . While projecting " rejectionism " against Israel , Damascus has been careful to avoid a direct military confrontation despite frequent air attacks . After being ostracised by the Arab League for over a decade , it was invited to rejoin the regional body . Most of the Arab countries have resumed diplomatic ties with Syria , even as Western sanctions continue . <p> Spasm Of Sunni Salafism <p> Sunni militancy has been endemic to Syria . But lately , an eerie pattern seems to have set in : the sudden and periodic spasms of Sunni Salafism every decade for the past 20 years : in 2004 it was affected by the scourge of al-Qaeda in neighbouring Iraq , only to be snuffed out two years later by the occupying US forces there . In 2014 , the infamous Islamic State in Iraq and Syria ( ISIS ) under self-styled Khalifa Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi exploded with a mysterious and gruesome mix of modern military hardware and regressive theocracy . The ISIS quickly overran a swathe of territory bigger than France with Raqqah as its capital and annual revenue of over a billion dollars . After earning notoriety for its medieval conduct , it too was militarily vanquished in 2019 by an unlikely coalition of Iran , the US , Iraqi Shia and Kurdish militias . Though it lost all territorial control , it still managed some spectacular operations hitting Moscow , Afghanistan , etc . <p> A decade after ISIS , the HTS led by Abu Mohammad al-Julani emerged out of the shadows on November 27 2024 , waging a blitzkrieg to shatter the wobbly peace of the past five years . Within a week , it has occupied Aleppo and Hama , Syria 's second and fourth largest cities . The HTS leads a motley Sunni rebel coalition poised to march on to Homs and threaten Damascus . In tandem with its advance , the Kurdish Self-Defence Force in the northeast and the Druze population in the south have also asserted against the central authority . Despite HTS claims of coordination , the actions by Kurdish and Druze elements appear autonomous and opportunistic . <p> The Emergence Of The HTS <p> The pattern is hardly coincidental . These perennial ethnic frictions manifest at opportune times of weak and unpopular regimes , social vacuum and external sponsors . The violent and toxic movements seek legitimacy through tactical shifts and the use of religious and sectarian symbols , but generate more heat than light and are eventually consumed by their overreach and overzealousness . <p> The emergence of the HTS has followed this script . It sensed opportunity as the Syrian army was exhausted after 13 years of unrelenting civil war and persistent Israeli air attacks . The lack of any peace dividend and political reforms has left the population disgruntled . Equally importantly , Iran and Russia , Damascus ' powerful external backers , each currently have their well-known preoccupations . <p> The HTS seems to have internalised the failures of the previous two Salafi insurrections . It has tried to cobble together a wider coalition of Sunni militias shunning , at least temporarily , the Salafi dogma it inherited from Al-Nusra Front , its al-Qaeda-aligned previous Avatar . It has also sought to have a modus vivendi with minorities such as Druze , Christians , Kurds , etc . Although proscribed as a terrorist organisation by the UN , the US , Turkey etc. , it has , reportedly , been sustained by Ankara and Doha . Possible crowdfunding from other sources , including Syrians in exile ( over a quarter of the total population ) as well as private largesse from the various Sunni outfits and non-state actors can not be ruled out . <p> Bashar al-Assad Has Held On <p> Despite the HTS ' initial shock successes on the ground , it is too early to count out President Bashar al-Assad , who has long defied prophesies of his demise . His battle-hardened and well-equipped army and security agencies are motivated by hard back-to-a-wall survival instinct . While his popularity is uncertain , he has provided a modicum of stability to the country for the past five years . So , for many in Syria , as a familiar devil , he may be preferable to unpredictable vendetta-driven revolutionaries . If push came to shove and Russia and Iran proved unwilling or unable to help out this time , the al-Assad clan retains the manoeuvrability to find new saviours . His last calling card would be that only he can keep Syria together and moderate ( notwithstanding the fiery rhetoric ) and his departure could lead to anarchy in a fragmented country with warring sectarian cantons that would make Lebanon appear as an oasis of peace . While quite a few of his internal and external detractors may not mind a regime change , very few of them , including the Western countries , Israel and Turkey , would countenance risking Syria being fractured into mutually warring cantons along ethnic or religious lines . The bitter legacy of the 13 years of civil war has thwarted the success of numerous attempts at reconciling the al-Assad regime with its militant opponents , notably through the United Nations and the Asthana process . <p> In the short run , thus , a " mother of all battles " is shaping up to control crucial central highlands around the Hama-Homs axis . To a large extent , its outcome would depend on which of the two sides would be able to keep their flock together and marshal their respective sponsors ' support . <p> The current flux in Syria can be seen as one of the aftershocks of Israel 's pyrrhic but decisive victory over Hamas and Hezbollah during the preceding weeks . It may also be a forerunner for an eventual epic confrontation between Israel and Iran if Tehran loses Syria , its last perch for its " advance defence strategy " against Israel . <p> Why India Should Be Concerned <p> Though India may be physically distant from Syria 's killing fields , several factors cast a long shadow upon us . Firstly , while Syria itself is not an oil and gas exporter , it lies close to the Gulf , which has major oil and gas reserves . Consequently , developments there are strategically important for us for several reasons , such as our hydrocarbon source , the base for over 9 million Indian expatriates , remittances and the export market . Protracted instability in Syria can therefore affect our vital interests . It is less well known that over 4 million Indians , mostly Malayalis , belong to the Syrian Christian church , constituting more than half of its global adherents . This symbiotic confessional connection makes them important stakeholders in the emerging imbroglio . Thirdly , the last time Syria faced a similar Salafi breakout by ISIS a decade ago , it " inspired " a small but significant segment of Indian Muslims . Some even answered its siren call to travel to Syria to join ISIS as Jihadis . A few cases of terror perpetrated in India were eventually traced to ISIS instigation . A bout of instability in Syria is , therefore , not conducive to India 's security and domestic stability . All these aspects enjoin us to keep a careful watch on the ongoing Syrian developments and act preventively to safeguard our national interests . 
@@118583634 <p> Now many of us squint back at that time through a veil of disappointment and fear . Every kind of populism has gone sour again . Is that stink wafting through the zeitgeist the supplement-toxified testosterone of young Rogan-fan voters , or stale dry-ice clouds from the celebrity endorsers at Harris rallies ? <p> Chart dynamism turned to near-stasis as those songs of summer stuck around through the fall with little to replace them . My Slate colleague Chris Molanphy 's series " Why Is This Song No. 1 ? " went months without a new installment , as " A Bar Song ( Tipsy ) " dominated that spot for months on end . The rest of the top 10 likewise has been stuck on shuffle , except when new albums debuted by artists with a very particular mix of mass and cult appeal . Those would be Tyler , the Creator -- whose Chromakopia just barely missed my list -- and Kendrick Lamar , whose surprise-released GNX has n't won me over yet but is currently making him just the fourth artist ever to occupy the whole Billboard top five simultaneously . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Given all that , my lists reveal a step back from broad pop-forwardness to a craving for more intense catharsis or more intimate contact . The order is always a shell game ; ranking a collection of perfect pop confections relative to an hourlong jazz composition is less apples-vs. -oranges and more butterscotch sundaes -- vs. -- Antikythera mechanisms ( you decide which is which ) . But now I felt particularly inclined to highlight the lesser-knowns , especially given the plethora of lists that get published these days as soon as the calendar hits December . Many of the runners-up here easily could have been first tier . My top dozen simply felt a touch more personal . <p> Advertisement <p> After that , instead of a top singles list , I 've put together a set of " singularities " -- some songs but also other musical moments and mutations that summon the essence of 2024 , a year divided against itself . <h> Related From Slate <h> The Top 12 Albums ( in alphabetical order ) <p> Advertisement <h> ? ? ? ? Ahmed , Wood Blues <p> Based in the U.K. , this is something of a pan-European supergroup ( Pat Thomas on piano , Seymour Wright on sax , Joel Grip on bass , and Antonin Gerbal on drums ) . It was formed to pay tribute to the bass and oud player Ahmed Abdul-Malik , a figure on the 1950s New York bebop scene who reinvented himself in the 1960s to pursue Arabic-jazz hybrids of his own invention . At each performance , ? ? ? ? Ahmed selects a single Abdul-Malik composition to explore live , under the rubric , " No discussion . No plan . No solos . " In this recording of a 2022 show in Glasgow , the result is a 58-minute panorama of , perhaps , an oil field going up in flames , including close-ups of the fleeing laborers , crowds of protesters , conspiracy theories running amok , and the angel of history overhead , flying in reverse . It 's a lot to absorb -- the group also released a five-disc set of other 2022 performances , called Giant Beauty , this year , but I have not tackled that yet . ( Nota bene : I might have otherwise included even more jazz records in this list , but my Slate colleague Fred Kaplan covered many of the best in his own tally this week . ) <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <h> Arab Strap , I 'm Totally Fine With It ? ? Do n't Give a Fuck Anymore ? ? <p> The idea of the " lockdown album " feels hackneyed by now . But I had n't realized how much I needed to hear one that deals with how far out of joint our internal and external worlds have remained since that great disruption . The Scottish duo Arab Strap , who showed off their sardonically drawling handling of the sordid facts of life from the mid-1990s to the mid-2000s , prove to be just the men for the job on their second studio album since reuniting in 2016 . Grim scenarios of social disconnection swell to epic synthesized scale , a little like on this year 's Cure album , but with more variety . It pulls off the best trick of deeply depressing music -- by telling truths the listener has n't known how to talk about or acknowledge , offering improbable comfort . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <h> Madi Diaz , Weird Faith <p> Singer-songwriter Madi Diaz caught a weird break in 2021 when , after a dozen-plus years gigging around New York and Nashville , she got a call to open some dates for Harry Styles , then to join his touring band . I did n't know this when I saw her at a Toronto club earlier this year and wondered why a horde of teenagers was clustered at the front screaming for every song . Her good luck becomes ours in that it likely means she 'll be able to keep putting out collections of songs like this . Her style does n't have much in common with Styles -- Kacey Musgraves ' presence on one track here is a better clue ( though it 's much sharper than Musgraves ' own sadly fuzzy-minded album this year ) . But on this album about the hopefulinsecurities of grown-up new love , and a similarly jumpy relationship to religion and family and fate ( hear " God Person " ) , her ability to make quizzical introspection so invitingly musical is good cause to jump up and scream . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <h> Doechii , Alligator Bites Never Heal <p> Officially it 's a mixtape , but to my ears , Doechii 's Alligator Bites Never Heal -- the title a nod to her Florida roots and to the theme of unresolved trauma -- is the freshest rap album of the year , with an internal coherence that lodges it as a whole in the memory . I 'm often down on the prevalence of therapy-speak in 2020s music , but the way that here it 's bounced off dirty-mouthed humor and classic hip-hop hungry ambition ( as well as side-eye to narrow industry expectations of women in rap ) makes it feel like part of a fully rounded self-portrait whose pace carries me through its 47 minutes in what feels like half the time . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <h> Mary Halvorson , Cloudward <p> Surely by now we can just acknowledge guitarist-composer Mary Halvorson , now in her mid-40s , as one of the giants of contemporary **28;1294;TOOLONG . As the title suggests , her pieces can be like cloud collages turning slowly for the listener 's contemplation . But then in an instant they can also be like mansions collapsing down the side of a hill , raindrops firing at you from octopus-arm guns , surreal parables or stern admonitions . The six-person ensemble here ( seven when assisted by Laurie Anderson on violin on " Incarnadine " ) comes across as tight and disciplined in its unpredictable pursuits . Besides Halvorson 's guitar , it features trumpet and trombone and rhythm section , plus the vibraphone of Patricia Brennan , who herself put out another of the best jazz records of 2024 , called Breaking Stretch . And you should hear two other fantastic albums with Halvorson this year , the Tomeka Reid Quartet 's 3+3 , and Wingbeats by the trio Thumbscrew , both also featuring Cloudward drummer Tomas Fujiwara . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <h> Hurray for the Riff Raff , The Past Is Still Alive <p> I fell for this album by this New Orleans ensemble , led since 2007 by nonbinary singer-songwriter Alynda Segarra , harder than I ever have for its previous ones . I might have to call it my favorite this year . The Past Is Still Alive is a memory book -- created in the wake of Segarra 's father 's death -- of Segarra 's dislocated and underprotected youth , the people ( often lost ) they experienced those ramblings with , and the America in which it all took place , as geographically ravishing as it can be socially unforgiving . But unlike some of the band 's previous records , it 's sparing in its didactic or scolding moments ( so they land all the harder ) . It 's suffused with love , grieving , grievance , and gratitude in dynamic balance . Its folk and country-rock structures still feel roomy but not so rickety . Audition " Colossus of Roads , " for instance , and see if any doubts do n't quickly collapse . <p> Advertisement <h> Various artists , I Saw the TV Glow ( original soundtrack ) <p> The record industry has been trying hard to sell us on Twisters as the movie soundtrack album of the year , and sure , it 's got some Nashville bangers among its overstuffed 29 tracks . But it ca n't compete with the album for Jane Schoenbrun 's oddball trans allegory and horror-fantasy period piece . Its 15 songs fulfill the director 's dream of simulating a great lost 1990s indie mixtape . But they also convene a summit of some of the great queer/weird-kid music heroes of the 2020s . As a Torontonian , I might have been a little suckered by the fact that it begins with Yeule 's cover of the greatest-ever Broken Social Scene cut , " Anthems for a Seventeen Year-Old Girl " -- and again , as a Phoebe Bridgers devotee , by it ending with her only official 2024 release , a collaboration with her old band Sloppy Jane ( the band in the club in the film ) on " Claw Machine . " But then there 's more from Frances Quinlan ( Hop Along ) , Caroline Polachek , Florist , King Woman , Jay Som , L'Rain , and the Weather Station , music that should serve to remind you not to neglect to dig your best friend , or alter ego , out of their grave , and that teen movie soundtrack albums can be the greatest thing . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <h> Ka , The Thief Next to Jesus <p> Of all the people in and around music who died in 2024 , one of the saddest losses was that of Kaseem Ryan , the fiercely independent rapper known as Ka , at the age of 52 . Having given up dreams of stardom in his youth , he worked as a respected firefighting captain by day . In his off time , he wrote , produced , performed , released , and marketed his own music , nine solo albums over the past 16 years -- most of them with central conceptual focuses , as on this one , which explores and critiques the relationship between Black American communities and Christianity . In a larger sense , all of his albums were about struggle , survival , and loss , grounded in hard memories of coming up in Brownsville , Brooklyn ( as here , for instance , on " Collection Plate " ) . It 's not easy listening , often downbeat and severe , but rich in story , sound , and emotion . I confess I did n't give his music enough time before his death , despite the urgings of my Slate colleague Jody Rosen , who was one of Ka 's greatest advocates over recent years , and whose beautiful obituary of the man I 'll recommend as required reading . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <h> MJ Lenderman , Manning Fireworks <p> Manning Fireworks is the one album among my top dozen that will show up on pretty much every other list you 'll see this year . It 's also an album I listened to more than almost anything else in 2024 , so I could n't pass it over . For one thing , the North Carolina singer-songwriter and guitarist carries into the mainstream more than ever before the influence of the late poet and songwriter David Berman ( Silver Jews , Purple Mountains ) , the subject of the book I 've been working on . MJ Lenderman shares Berman 's alt-country style and his penchant for juxtaposing sardonic one-liners with aching lyricism and other verbal leaps -- like Lenderman 's much-quoted reference to his " houseboat docked at the Himbo Dome " on the perfect " Wristwatch , " or his " Bark at the Moon " counsel " Do n't move to New York City , babe/ It 's gon na change the way you dress . " But he can say equally much with a volley of string-bending Southern-rock guitar notes . At only 25 , he 's already honed those skills through several previous albums , but here is where it all clicks into place . A recurring theme is symptoms of masculine dysfunction , among the older generation ( as on " She 's Leaving You " ) but perhaps also among the Joe Rogan and Andrew Tate acolytes who are his peers . So another level it operates on might be undercover journalism -- or else displaced confession . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <h> The Messthetics and James Brandon Lewis , The Messthetics and James Brandon Lewis <p> This project feels like something made expressly for me , or that I just imagined in a daydream : the former rhythm section of the great ( arguably greatest ) 1980s and 1990s post-hardcore band Fugazi , in collaboration with one of today 's most compelling younger New York jazz creators and players , James Brandon Lewis ( who had two albums on my 2023 list ) . I was n't so taken with what bassist Joe Lally and drummer Brendan Canty , together with guitarist Anthony Pirog , did on previous Messthetics releases , which drifted a bit too far toward prog rock . But Lewis ' presence on sax seems to ease their anxiety about filling in available space , which he 's able to do with more strategy and sensuality . The outcome on tracks like " Emergence " nods to decades-past iterations of jazz-rock and jazz-punk fusions while sounding completely 2024 . Also do n't overlook Lewis ' quartet release this year , Transfiguration , with pianist Aru ? n Ortiz and another great rhythm section , Brad Jones ( bass ) and Chad Taylor ( drums ) . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <h> Peso Pluma , ? xodo <p> For all the talk about Brat summer , " Espresso " fever , and everybody going country , there was another record this summer racking up hundreds of millions of streams and reaching near the top of the charts that seldom entered the conversation : Peso Pluma 's double album ? xodo.It 's rooted in regional Mexican music and corrido , but ranging far beyond that , with one disc full of traditional brass and strings and the other loaded with trap beats and guests such as Cardi B , Quavo , and Rich the Kid . My Spanish is practically nonexistent ( I 'm Canadian ; we took French ) , so there are limits to what I can analyze here -- certainly not the debate over the glorification of drug-cartel activity in the subgenre of narcocorridos , except to say it does n't seem so far removed from the lyrical fixations of hip-hop icons such as Pusha T. What I do know is that almost anywhere I push play on ? xodo , whether the more folkloric " Rompe La Dompe " or the ultramodern " Bellakeo " or anywhere in between , almost everything sounds like a hit , and I do n't want it to stop . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <h> SML , Small Medium Large <p> Sounding at various points like a contemporary electronic dance record , On the Corner -- style 1970s fusion , or 1980s New York mutant disco like Liquid Liquid and ESG , the West Coast quintet SML 's first album is constructed from live improvisations transformed through postproduction editing and processing . The group has its roots in Jeff Parker 's Los Angeles jazz venue ETA , which closed last year ; bassist Anna Butterss and saxophonist Josh Johnson are also both on Parker 's superlative double album this year , The Way Out of Easy . But the shimmery , pulsing sound of SML , with its synthesizers , guitars , percussion , and loops , has the potential to entice a listenership not usually drawn to free-jazz types , perhaps the way Chicago 's Tortoise did in the 1990s -- with the squared-off anti-funk of " Industry , " for instance , or the near-ambient pit-a-pat of " Window Sill Song . " It 's a sound for which I , personally , am almost always in the mood , or if not , it will take me there . <h> Singularities : Songs , Moments , Happenings <p> As on Renaissance , Beyonc ? was presenting a whole musicological thesis on Cowboy Carter , but this time it felt as if it sprawled a bit out of control , maybe because she had less specifically to say about country music than she first proposed -- a lot of the best stuff had more to do with rock ' n ' roll . ( See my review . ) The lowest point was a rewrite of " Jolene " that turned Dolly Parton 's classic into a routine power flex . But immediately after that came the wild twist of " Daughter , " in which Beyonc ? performed part of the operatic aria " Caro Mio Ben " ( showing off a part of her training many of us were n't aware of ) and matched it with a narrative that seemed to compensate for the absence she 'd just hollowed out of " Jolene " by becoming more potentially revealing about her own family and emotional makeup than almost anything she 's ever sung . <p> When Shaboozey appeared as a guest on Cowboy Carter , I had never heard of him , and in what felt like about 30 seconds later , he had the biggest hit of the year ( which I still really like ) -- and also seemed in some ways to be more successful at tilting the racial makeup of the country charts . My colleague Chris Molanphy has a great piece this week about what 's going on with that . Only part of it is gender , although when it comes to crossover , it was also conspicuous how much more casually the white dude Post Malone was able to mosey across the genre line . <p> I started out the summer resistant to " Espresso " as a culture-swallowing hit -- it sounded too much like other songs , even whole unrecognized genres of song . But with subsequent singles and then her album , it became clearer that Carpenter was more than a cutesy white appropriator , and actually had a whole consistent , witty , dirty-minded aesthetic behind her appeal . So I learned to stop worrying and love " Espresso , " which also refreshed a vital lesson for songwriters and critics alike , that with pop lyrics it is often all thebetter when they do n't make logical or grammatical sense . <p> The saga of Brat , which propelled perpetual alternative-pop second-stringer Charli to pop-culture prom queen , has been perhaps too much told . But especially post-Kendrick-and-Drake , the most heartwarming part was the switcheroo between versions one and two of " Girl , So Confusing , " the transition from purported catfight fodder to a celebration of empathy and friendship across mutual awkwardness . I preferred Charli and Lorde 's version to Galinda and Elphaba 's in Wicked , although both involved prominent tints of green . <p> All other details of the beef aside , this incredibly catchy anthem , more than any hit in recent memory , boggles my mind on a regular basis that a big hit is allowed to say the things it says . You ca n't forget where you were when you first heard it . Like nothing since " Pumped Up Kicks " or " My Neck , My Back , " maybe , it restores one 's faith in the bottomless weirdness of pop . The depth of that weirdness was perhaps best expressed , as so often with pop-culture news , in comedian Josh Johnson 's YouTube video about it . What the beef actually indicated about the general health of hip-hop as a field is another , less fun question . <p> But damn , it 's almost as if artists fostering parasocial relationships with fans through social media and Easter egg hunts over lyrical clues to their personal lives turns out to have a downside . I do n't fault any of these artists for their complaints . I just wonder if the overall conditions are capable of changing . <p> Just a bit more than a month after a documentary about her health condition that made many of us question whether she could ever perform again , C ? line Dion mounted the Eiffel Tower ( the Eiffel Tower ! ) and sang this song of doomed love by Edith Piaf ( Edith Piaf ! ) so passionately and perfectly that friends of mine who had resisted Dion their whole lives were instantly converted . In retrospect , obviously the timing of the documentary had been calculated in order to make her imminent comeback feel all the more miraculous . In my relief for her ( at least partial ) recovery , and awe at that performance , somehow I did n't resent the manipulation at all . <p> The best band in K-pop , at least to dabblers like me , is NewJeans , who put out its latest two singles this spring while becoming subsumed in a complex legal and corporate battle that has exposed a lot about how the K-pop industry functions behind the curtain . The young women in the band have publicly taken sides , which , depending on the outcome , might jeopardize the group 's existence . Meanwhile , this week , the South Korean president attempted to declare martial law , then was forced to take it back , as part of his ongoing clash with the legislative opposition . Did the NewJeans power struggle presage the South Korean government crisis ? Probably not . But does it mean the end of K-pop 's incredible winning streak ? Also doubtful , though it could bring some transformations , as Katherine St. Asaph writes at Stereogum . Still , so much drama ! <p> 9 . The Dream Birth of " Hit Em " Dance Music , July 29 <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> As proof that good things can still happen on the internet , near the end of July , Drew Daniel ( Johns Hopkins University English professor and half of the venerable experimental electronic duo Matmos ) tweeted that he 'd had a dream in which a girl at a rave told him about " a genre called ' hit em ' that is in 5/4 time at 212 bpm with super crunched out sounds . " ( Oh , and did he mention that he lived in a grave covered in slime ? ) Some 7 million views later , Daniel found that people all over the world were making his subconsciously conjured genre a reality and producing " Hit Em " tracks . In November , a 26-track Hit Em compilation was released by Tabula Rasa records titled Thank You , Dream Girl , including many well-known producers . But that 's only a small portion of the nearly " infinite jukebox " of Hit Em productions that are archived at the Hit Em website . And what does it sound like ? Super crunched out , mostly . <p> 10 . The Red Hot Org Is on Fire <p> Advertisement <p> The Red Hot Organization was founded in 1989 as an AIDS awareness and fundraising organization , and remembered from those days for the Red Hot and Blue Cole Porter tribute album featuring everyone from Sin ? ad O'Connor to the Jungle Brothers , which sold a million copies . It 's carried on ever since , but lately it seems to be operating at a particularly high level . Last month it released a nearly four-hour , trans-support-themed compilation called Transa , with contributors including Sade ( whose first new song in six years , " Young Lion , " is dedicated to her trans son ) , Julien Baker , Andr ? 3000 , Jlin , Moor Mother , Sam Smith , Beverly Glenn-Copeland , Laura Jane Grace , Perfume Genius , and too many others to name . That follows two more special-guest-packed , Sun Ra -- themed anthologies this year , one " hosted " in a sense by Meshell Ndegeocello and the other by the Kronos Quartet . Along with the Noise for Now reproductive rights organization 's delightful recent compilation Songs for Sex , these are all examples of part of what music people can do to face the coming challenges . <p> On the other hand , this harshly autotuned , saccharine power ballad by He Who Shall Not Be Named 's daughter-in-law ( who stepped away from her " music career " to co-chair the Republican National Committee this year ) is a dystopian ghost of pop future . I have n't been able to get " that little girl/ Ridin ' on her Pegasus " out of my head since April , mostly because David Rees on the Election Profit Makers podcast kept playing ridiculous digital deconstructions of it in every episode . It has become the sonic equivalent in my mind of Orwell 's " boot stamping on a human face -- forever . " And while the viral TikTok hit " Man in Finance , " by Girl on Couch/Megan Boni , was meant to be satirical , with its vocal-fried checklist of dating attributes ( " I 'm looking for a man in finance ... trust fund/ 6 ' 5 " / Blue eyes " ) , sadly , its apparent cultural accuracy makes it more depressing than amusing to me . At such moments , I reach for a powerful humanist statement like Laurie Anderson 's incredible setting of C.P. Cavafy 's all-too-relevant 1898 poem " Waiting for the Barbarians , " performed at Saint Thomas Church in New York . Or the Pet Shop Boys ' funny-sad plea to find " A New Bohemia . " <p> 12 . John Zorn Puts Out 12 Albums in 2024 <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Then again , we could just look back to the old bohemia . Last year , when music geeks widely celebrated the experimental label Tzadik coming at last to streaming services , we did n't stop to think that meant that we 'd be met by the ever-flowing spigot of its founder John Zorn 's astoundingly prolific output in real time . This year the New York avant-garde saxophonist , composer , and new-music impresario is 71 and he has released , as of this writing , 12 full-length albums -- not just live improv recordings as you might think , but three albums of compositions for organ , one live album of radical love songs , two volumes of the acclaimed classical singer Barbara Hannigan performing Zorn 's intricate vocal compositions , a quartet album called Ballades , another called Lamentations , a trio record called Her Melodious Lay , another of his ongoing project the New Masada Quartet live in concert , and a reunion of his death metal -- jazz trio Painkiller . On sampling , not a dud in the bunch . What have you been up to ? <p> Both the best Christmas song and perhaps the best protest song I 've heard this year is " Song of the Magi " by Carsie Blanton , a New Jersey DIY singer-songwriter whose latest album ( also very good ) is called After the Revolution.It was only after many listens that I found out " Magi " is actually a 2007 song by Ana ? s Mitchell , which I 've never heard anyone else revive . It turns on the simple fact that Bethlehem is now a West Bank war zone , as the biblical wise men tell the newborn infant in the manger , " Your home is a checkpoint now ... put your hands in the air , my child . " Yet fittingly for a seasonal hymn , it does end on a note of hope . Its only rival on that level is " Gaza Is Calling " by Mustafa ( formerly of Toronto ) , from his album Dunya.Despite the title , it 's no call to arms but an aching story about being separated from a Palestinian childhood friend whose mind was always drawn back to home . It 's about the complexity of exile , not easy solutions . <p> Sometimes you just want something simple and beautiful . Maggie Rogers ' single from last winter made me cry the first time I heard it and every time since . Amid 2024 's vast smorgasbord of sounds , " Do n't Forget Me " and Waxahatchee 's " Right Back to It " are the two that have kept replenishing me most -- and make me want to keep listening in 2025 , whatever else comes . 
@@118615622 <h> Assad dynasty collapses in Syria as rebel forces claim Damascus <p> Syria has been rocked by 13 years of civil conflict , sparked by the March 2011 pro-democracy demonstrations against repressive governmental rule . <p> The Syrian escalations take place as Assad 's allies Russia and Lebanese militant group Hezbollah have been increasingly distracted by battle on their own home fronts , engaging Ukraine and Israel , respectively . <p> Markets have been watching the military developments for signs of an impact on supplies in the oil-rich Middle East , as well as further trade disruptions along critical trade routes . <p> TOPSHOT - Fighters fire towards Syrian Army troops in the Rashidin district on the outskirts of Aleppo on Nov. 29 , 2024 . <p> Bakr Alkasem Afp Getty Images <p> The more than 50-year Assad dynastic dictatorship was on the cusp of collapse on Sunday , as rebel forces seized the capital of Damascus in a lightning offensive that has swept the country 's largest cities in a matter of days . <p> The defense forces of the Russia and Iran-backed government have been struggling to stymy the rebel advance that kicked off with the rapid sweep of northern city Aleppo last week , breaking a years-long stalemate . The attack has been led by the Islamist militant group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) -- which the U.S. and U.N . Security Council designated as a terrorist organization -- and its allies , who have widened the scope of their campaign to the south of the country and now also captured the key cities of Hama and Deir el-Zor . <p> " We declare the city of Damascus free from the tyrant Bashar al-Assad , " Hassan Abdul-Ghani , senior HTS commander , said in a post on WhatsApp . " To the displaced people around the world , Free Syria awaits you . " <p> CNBC could not independently verify developments of the ground . <p> The whereabouts of President Bashar al-Assad , who assumed leadership in 2000 after the death of his father Hafez , were uncertain . Multiple media reports , which CNBC could not independently confirm , state he has fled Damascus . The Russian Foreign Ministry later on Sunday said that Assad had decided to leave his presidential post and the country . <p> Syrian Prime Minister Ghazi al-Jalali said he remained at his home and was prepared to support the continuity of Syrian governance . <p> " We believe that Syria belongs to all Syrians and to all its citizens , and that this country can be a normal state , one that builds good relations with its neighbors without entering into any regional alliances or blocs , " he said , according to NBC News reporting . " This matter is left to any leadership chosen by the Syrian people , and we are ready to cooperate with them by providing all possible facilitation . " <p> The U.N . Special Envoy for Syria Geir Pedersen on Sunday stressed this is a " watershed moment " in the Syrian civil war , calling for " stable and inclusive transitional arrangements . " <p> Several nations have evacuated their embassies amid the Damascus conflict , with outgoing U.S. President Joe Biden " closely monitoring " the events and retaining contact with regional partners , according to White House National Security Council Spokesman Sean Savett . <h> Distracted allies <p> The advance on Damascus comes after militants reached Homs -- the country 's third-largest city and a chokepoint between rebel-held territories and the capital city . Holding Homs would pose significant challenges for the rebels , who would have to confront a concentration of government forces and gain the support of local pro-Assad Alawite communities , Atlantic Council Senior Fellow Qutaiba Idlbi wrote on Dec. 5 . <p> " More importantly , the rebels advancing toward Homs will test Russia 's redlines in Syria . So far , Russia has been absent from providing serious military support to uphold Assad 's defenses across areas he 's losing to the rebels , " Idlbi added . " While Russia has conducted some airstrikes in Idlib and Aleppo to counter rebel advances , it has not engaged directly in Hama . This restraint reflects Moscow 's strategic calculations to avoid overextension . " <p> Syria has been rocked by 13 years of civil conflict , sparked by the March 2011 pro-democracy demonstrations against repressive governmental rule , in lockstep with similar regional uprisings during the Arab Spring . The Assad administration answered the Syrian protests with deadly force , leading to calls for his resignation , nationwide unrest and the rise of opposition groups . Peace talks carried out separately by the U.N . and by Russia , Iran , and Turkey have yet to bear fruit . <p> The Syrian escalations take place as Assad 's allies Russia and Lebanese militant group Hezbollah have been increasingly distracted by battle on their own home fronts , engaging Ukraine and Israel , respectively . The Syrian unrest exacerbates the broader conflict in the Middle East , which was set off in October 2023 by a terror attack perpetrated by Palestinian militant group Hamas in Israel , leading to the Jewish nation 's retaliatory military campaign in the Gaza Strip and to its fire exchanges with Hezbollah , Yemeni Houthi and Iran . <p> " This lightning-fast offensive is a monumental shift in the Syrian conflict and highlights the regime 's inherent weakness , " wrote Natasha Hall , a senior fellow with the Middle East Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies , further noting that the " fragile stasis collapsed as Assad 's allies , Iran and Hezbollah , have been significantly weakened " by Israeli military offensives , while " Russia has been bogged down in Ukraine and unrest in Georgia . " <p> In an update on his Truth Social platform , U.S. President-elect Donald Trump suggested Assad 's " protector , Russia , Russia , Russia , led by Vladimir Putin , was not interested in protecting him any longer . There was no reason for Russia to be there in the first place . They lost all interest in Syria because of Ukraine . " <p> Markets have been watching the military developments for signs of an impact on supplies in the oil-rich Middle East , as well as further trade disruptions along critical trade routes . 
@@118617131 <h> Where do Democrats go from here ? Washington 's congressional delegation has some ideas <p> WASHINGTON , D.C. -- Since Republicans won control of the House , Senate and White House in last month 's elections , Democrats in Congress have embarked on a series of public and private debates over what went wrong for their party . <p> The election result was hardly a blowout , with President-elect Donald Trump winning 49.9% of votes and Democratic wins in the House leaving the GOP with a mere five-seat majority in that chamber . But the reality of a Trump victory -- aided by significant gains among working-class voters of all races -- has Washington 's congressional delegation focused on returning to what they see as the party 's roots . <p> " I think the most important thing to do right now is to take a pause and listen , " said Sen. Patty Murray , cautioning her fellow Democrats against letting the election outcome reinforce their existing ideas . <p> " I think that there are people rightfully frustrated about where we are right now -- with our economy , with all the global things that are happening -- and they only had one way to make their voices heard , " she said in her Capitol office . " So we have to understand that frustration , deal with it the best we can , but not lose what our basic values are . " <p> Other members of the delegation , however , want to do more than listen . In a brief interview at the Capitol on Nov. 14 , Rep. Adam Smith of Bellevue blamed his party 's losses on " the undue influence of extreme elements that are occasionally part of our coalition . " <p> " The radical left has come to have veto power over far too many things that your average Democratic candidate does , so that our brand is poisoned , " said Smith , adding that Democratic presidential candidate Kamala Harris " tried to duck and hide " rather than explicitly repudiating what he called " radical identity politics " and calls to defund the police or abolish Immigration and Customs Enforcement . <p> Murray said she understands Smith 's point but emphasized that both parties are subject to the same kind of forces pulling them toward more extreme positions . <p> " The question is n't just , ' What do Democrats do ? ' " Murray said . " It really is , ' What do we do as a country to make sure that we are n't just absolutely catering to the person that 's screaming the loudest in the room ? ' " <p> Smith , the state 's longest-serving House member and the top Democrat on the House Armed Services Committee , has been targeted at home by protesters calling for a cease-fire in Gaza and an end to U.S. military aid to Israel . He said that by taking positions to avoid alienating left-wing groups -- such as being open to decriminalizing crossing the border illegally -- Harris and other Democratic candidates in the party 's 2020 primary " alienated the whole rest of the country . " <p> " I 'm a progressive , " Smith said . " If I may be blunt , I think the communists are the problem . And we need to draw that distinction . If you 're in favor of abolishing the criminal justice system , you 're not a progressive . We need to reclaim that label . " <p> Rep. Pramila Jayapal , who represents most of Seattle and leads the Congressional Progressive Caucus , said she completely disagrees with Smith 's critique of the party . <p> " We have talked down to our base of voters who no longer feel connected to us , " she said . " They do n't feel like they need to come out , because they 're always being told they 're far left , or they 're crazy , or they 're not a permanent part of our coalition . That is the part of the coalition that is growing the fastest , and you ignore them to your detriment . " <p> Jayapal said she believes Democrats have lost ground with their traditional base -- poor and working people of every race and ethnicity -- because those people feel that " the system has been rigged against them " and saw Trump as the one who would blow it up . <p> " The core issue , to me , is that people are very angry , " she said . " And they have a right to be , because even while the economy has grown and the wealthiest 1% have gotten wealthier and wealthier and wealthier , their wages have stagnated at where they were 30 years ago . People feel like they have n't been able to see enough of a difference between Republicans and Democrats on these issues that affect working people . " <p> Rep. Marilyn Strickland of Tacoma said the debate over whether Democrats should move further to the left or to the center on specific policies could miss a bigger point about how they relate to voters . <p> " I ask myself sometimes , was this election really about issues ? " she said . " Sometimes we forget that this is a communication business as much as anything else . For us as a party , we have to constantly communicate with voters and tell them what the value proposition is , and we have to do it in terms that you can put on a bumper sticker . " <p> Rep. Kim Schrier , whose district stretches from Wenatchee to the Seattle suburbs , handily won re-election by outperforming Harris in Washington 's most purple district . She also warned against jumping to conclusions about the election results but said she has built trust with her constituents just by showing up and working on issues they care about . <p> " The extremes in both parties have the loudest megaphones , " she said . " And that 's very destructive , because most of us , like most of the country , are right around the middle -- left of center , right of center , but very pragmatic . Real people with real families . " <p> Despite their disagreements , the Washington Democrats all voiced the idea that their party needs to do a better job of listening and focus on the issues that matter most to voters . Sen. Maria Cantwell , who leads the Senate Committee on Commerce , Science and Transportation , said the " megaphone " for Democrats needs to be all about the economic concerns that drove voters to change the party in control of the Senate and the White House . <p> " We might have had job growth in the economy , but the price economy was the real issue , " she said . " I think you have to show people that you 're fighting on their side and that you really are working on policies that really could help the underlying condition . " <p> Give directly to The Spokesman-Review 's Northwest Passages community forums series -- which helps to offset the costs of several reporter and editor positions at the newspaper -- by using the easy options below . Gifts processed in this system are not tax deductible , but are predominately used to help meet the local financial requirements needed to receive national matching-grant funds . 
@@118617525 <h> Israeli attacks on central Gaza kill at least 16 <p> Israeli attacks on Gaza have killed 44,708 people as Israeli forces continue their siege of Kamal Adwan Hospital . <p> The Kamal Adwan Hospital in Beit Lahiya in the northern Gaza Strip on October 31 , 2024 File : AFP <p> Published On 8 Dec 20248 Dec 2024 <p> Israeli air attacks in the Gaza Strip have killed at least 16 Palestinians in separate attacks in the central part of the enclave . <p> Five members of one family , including children , were killed in an attack on a camp for displaced people in Deir el-Balah in the early hours of Sunday as they slept . <p> " We woke up to a loud explosion in the middle of the night , " said Mahmoud Fayad , an eyewitness . " We ran to the loud screams and found many civilians killed ; and entire family , man , wife and their children . " <p> Dozens of others were injured in the attack , according to Al Jazeera 's Hani Mahmoud . <p> " Many people in the vicinity of the tent site were reported with various injuries , " said Mahmoud , reporting from Deir el-Balah . " The overnight attack highlights the vulnerability of displaced civilians inside these tents . " <p> Then , later on Sunday , at least 11 people were killed in an Israeli air attack on a residential house in al-Bureij camp . <p> Al Jazeera 's Tareq Abu Azzoum , reporting from Deir el-Balah , said that the strike had hit the eastern part of the camp , and that there had been no prior warning to the residents of the building , which was flattened . <p> Advertisement <p> Abu Azzoum said that he " personally saw bodies ... shredded to pieces " as they arrived at Deir el-Balah 's al-Aqsa Hospital , adding that they had been gathered in bags used for flour because of a lack of coffins . <p> Gaza 's Health Ministry said on Sunday that more than 44,708 Palestinians have been killed and 106,050 injured in Israel 's war on Gaza since October of last year . Several people were injured overnight in " drone attacks on residential areas " to the east of Gaza City , Mahmoud reported . <p> Hussam Abu Safia , the director of the hospital , which is one of only three barely operational in the north of the enclave , said the facility was hit by around 100 tank shells and bombs , wounding several of the medical staff and patients . <p> " The situation is extremely dangerous . We have patients in the intensive care unit and others awaiting surgeries . Access to the operating rooms is only possible after restoring electricity and oxygen supply , " Abu Safia said in a statement . <p> The hospital is treating 112 wounded people , including six in the intensive care unit , he said . <p> There was no immediate comment from the Israeli military about Abu Safia 's account . <p> " Israeli forces are about 500 metres 1,650 feet away from the gate of the hospital and set up a sniper position that keeps targeting people and any moving objects inside the hospital , " Al Jazeera 's Mahmoud reported , adding that there was a heavy presence of drones and quadcopters in the skies above the facility . <p> Advertisement <p> On Friday , Israeli forces killed about 30 people when they stormed the Kamal Adwan Hospital under cover of heavy artillery fire and air attacks , according to Eid Sabbah , the hospital 's director of nursing . <p> To justify its actions , Israel claims Hamas fighters are using civilian buildings , including hospitals and schools , for operational cover throughout the 14-month Gaza war . <p> Hamas , the Palestinian group that runs the Gaza Strip , has denied this and accuses Israel of indiscriminate bombings and assaults . 
@@118619333 <h> " At long last " : Biden says Assad ouster is " act of justice " in Syria <p> Alex Galbraith <p> December 8 , 2024 at 2:08 PM*2 min read <p> Joe Biden Jakub Porzycki/NurPhoto via Getty Images <p> President Joe Biden addressed the coup in Syria from the White House on Sunday , calling the removal of President Bashar al-Assad a " fundamental act of justice " and a " moment of historic opportunity for the long-suffering people of Syria . " <p> " After 13 years of civil war in Syria , more than half a century of brutal authoritarian rule by Bashar al-Assad and his father before him , rebel forces have forced Assad to resign his office , flee the country , " he said . " At long last the Assad regime has fallen . " <p> Syrian rebels , led by the Sunni Islamist group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , took the Syrian capital of Damascus late on Saturday . Biden said that the overthrow of Assad created a " moment of risk and uncertainty " in the region and shared that he planned to support Syria 's neighbors to mitigate some risks of destabilization . <p> To that end , Biden said the U.S. conducted dozens of " precision air strikes " on camps run by the Islamic State group , in the hopes of preventing the group from taking advantage of the power vacuum in Syria . <p> " ISIS will try and take advantage of any vacuum to reestablish its credibility , and create a safe haven , " Biden said . " We will not let that happen . " <p> Biden said he 's watching the moves of HTS closely as they begin the process of establishing a new government in Syria . Members of the group have promised safety for minorities within the country , but Biden said his administration will keep a " vigilant " eye on the group that 's been deemed a terrorist organization by the U.S. State Department . <p> " Make no mistake , some of the rebel groups that took down Assad have their own grim record of terrorism and human rights abuses , " he said . " As they take on greater responsibility , we will assess not just their words , but their actions . " <p> In his speech , Biden also boasted his ongoing support of Israel in that country 's multi-front war against forces in Gaza , Lebanon and Iran . Israel captured the demilitarized territory along the border between the two countries shortly after Assad fled , claiming that the agreement between the two countries was nullified by the coup . <p> Following a wild conference championship game weekend , Dan Wetzel , Ross Dellenger , and SI 's Pat Forde hop on to discuss the outcome of the final College Football Playoff rankings . They dive in on which teams have the best path to a national title and which teams should be the most upset . <p> In winter 2025 , a comparative literature class at UCLA will feature a textbook , homework assignments , and TA resources generated by AI . The class in question is a survey of literature from the Middle Ages to the 17th century , while the materials are generated by Kudu -- an " evolved " textbook platform founded by Alexander Kusenko , a professor of physics and astronomy at UCLA . The university says this will be the first class in its humanities division with materials developed by Kudu . <p> Apple is being sued over its decision not to implement a system that would have scanned iCloud photos for child sexual abuse material ( CSAM ) . The suit describes Apple as announcing " a widely touted improved design aimed at protecting children , " then failing to " implement those designs or take any measures to detect and limit " this material . Apple first announced the system in 2021 , explaining that it would use digital signatures from the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children and other groups to detect known CSAM content in users ' iCloud libraries . 
@@118625023 <h> The Syrian civil war highlights shifting alliances , Turkey 's ascendance , and enduring threats from Iran and jihadists . <p> By DR . ERIC R. MANDEL DECEMBER 8 , 2024 21:44 <p> Smoke rises , after Syrian rebels announced that they have ousted Syria 's Bashar al-Assad , in Damascus , Syria , December 8 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/AMR ABDALLAH DALSH ) <p> Two weeks ago , the dormant 13-year-old Syrian civil war was barely on the radar of American and Israeli political , defense , and security leaders , with everyone focused on Iran , Hezbollah , and Gaza . The lesson is that those who think they know what is coming next in Syria and the region are fooling themselves . <p> After the Arab Winter in 2011 , when Egyptian President Mubarak was toppled , few saw the rapid rise of the Muslim Brotherhood , which led to the election of the anti-American Islamist President Morsi . His short tenure ended in a coup by military strongman al-Sisi , who is still the authoritarian President of Egypt . <p> In retrospect , the events in the region over the past thirteen years seem to make sense , but they certainly did n't at the time . Today 's political leaders must force themselves to remember how precarious the situation was at the time and how little insight our defense , security , and intelligence analysts had as the events transpired in real-time . <p> Today , Iran is on the defensive , but as a cornered rat , it is more dangerous than ever . With attention grabbed by the events unfolding in Syria , one might presume that Iran has suffered a major strategic defeat and is in no position to cause trouble , as its primary proxy in Lebanon is isolated , and Syria is no longer under its thumb . <p> On the contrary , while everyone is focused on Syria and the march of the jihadists backed by Turkey 's Islamist President Erdogan , we must not take our eye off the Islamic Republic of Iran , whose mullahs are likely to decide now is the time to dash to a nuclear weapon to become immune to an attack . Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan speaks after a signing ceremony in Ankara , Turkey September 4 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/MURAD SEZER ) <p> My recommendation to both the Biden and Trump administrations is to seize the moment of Israeli decapitation of Iran 's anti-missile system as the right time to strike on the nuclear weapons program . A nuclear Iran remains a nightmare scenario for the Middle East , Israel , and US national security interests . <h> Turkey 's rise in Syria <p> The apparent initial winner in Syria is Turkey , an American frenemy that is now ascendant in the region over Iran and Russia . From Erdogan 's view , Turkey is now in the position it should rightfully have : the great Muslim power in the Middle East , fulfilling his neo-Ottoman imperialist vision of restoring the loss of Turkey 's hundreds of years of leadership of the Muslim world . <p> The question is , will the jihadists of HTS be loyal to Erdogan over time ? The alliances of the Syrian rebels could collapse . HTS are Salafists , an offshoot of al-Qaeda . The primary group Erdogan backed was the Syrian National Army ( SNA ) , a rebel group that may be more moderate and weaker than HTS . <p> Will the stronger HTS jihadists devour their temporary SNA ally ? Turkey will work with anyone who will allow it to take over northern Syria , ethically cleanse the Syrian Kurds from that region , and return the three million Syrian refugees to Syria who took shelter in Turkey during the civil war . <p> The Syrian Kurds , who helped the US defeat ISIS and are imprisoning tens of thousands of ISIS sympathizers , are now on the offensive from their territory in northwest Syria southward , taking over the crucial Sunni city of Deir al Zour . Turkey ethnically cleansed Kurds a few years ago from northeast Syria and is likely to turn its attention to the Kurds in the northwest , who they consider to be mortal enemies , part of the militant group PKK . The US sees the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) as allies against ISIS . A Kurdish-Turkish war is the next shoe to fall , which will require the Trump administration to weigh in . <p> And what about the HTS 's ideological jihadist cousins , ISIS ( DAESH ) ? Is this an opportunity for them to arise and wreak havoc in Syria , Iraq , and through the Middle East again as they did a decade ago ? <p> Russia will do all it can to preserve its Hmeimim air base in Latakia and its Tartus naval port on the Mediterranean . The Iran alliance is a casualty for the time being . However , Russia will still work with Iran as part of the axis of resistance , buying drones and missiles for its war in Ukraine , adding to the Supreme Leader 's coffers . <p> As for Israel , it has preemptively moved forces into parts of the Syrian Golan to block jihadists on its border . Sunni jihadists are not friends of the Jewish State , but hopefully , a d ? tente or ceasefire can be arranged . I doubt that HTS will directly speak with Israel , but Israel should try . Keep your friends close and your enemies closer . Remember , HTS 's sponsor , Erdogan , protects Hamas and is profoundly anti-Semitic . <p> Syria was the target for hundreds of Israeli strikes over the years . Still , it was exclusively about stopping the transit of Iranian arms to Hezbollah in Lebanon and , most recently , about targeting Iranian assets and advanced weapons factories in Syria . Israel is now hitting the last of the Syrian and Iranian weapons facilities in Syria to prevent them from falling into the hands of adversaries . However , Israel should anticipate Iran finding new ways to support Hezbollah . <p> And do n't forget about Jordan . The jihadists can either march or inspire the Islamists in Jordan to destabilize a critical US ally , not to mention how Israel 's security would be undermined with jihadists in Amman . <p> With a new American administration only five weeks away and many potential Trump candidates in intelligence and defense positions profoundly influenced by America 's debacles in Iraq and Afghanistan , the likely recommendation from this group will be for the US to do nothing . <p> However , the Marco Rubio-Mike Waltz faction knows better . Creating a vacuum in the Levant will create more chaos with the chance of American troops being drawn in again . <p> The temptation for the neo-isolationist wing is to remove the 900 US troops in the al-Tanf region in Syria , bordering Jordan and Iraq . They have been a stabilizing force in preventing the return of ISIS and supporting our Kurdish allies . They are a force multiplier for stability and should remain in place . But their safety needs to be watched closely and acted upon if the jihadists threaten them . In reality , their greatest threat is the Iranian-controlled militias in Iraq , and they are now on the defensive . <p> Now is not the time to forget about Iran . Suppose the Supreme Leader and the IRGC know America and Israel will not use kinetic actions to stop their dash to an atomic bomb . In that case , that is an invitation for the still dangerous Supreme Leader to act quickly to become a nuclear power and return to its hegemonic ambitions . <p> So , who will have President Trump 's ear , Rubio , Waltz , and company , or Vice President-elect Vance and Tulsi Gabbard ? As always , America may want to leave the Middle East , but the region keeps calling it back . <p> Dr. Eric Mandel is the Director of MEPIN , the Middle East Political Information Network , and the Senior Security Editor of the Jerusalem Report . He regularly briefs member of Congress and their foreign policy aides . 
@@118625028 <h> A line can be drawn from the " fateful decisions " that the US and Iran made in the days after October 7 to today , according to the official . <p> U.S. President Joe Biden speaks after Syrian rebels announced that they have ousted Syria 's Bashar al-Assad , at the White House , in Washington , U.S. , December 8 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/KEN CEDENO ) <p> It is impossible not to place this week 's events in the context of the decisions President Joe Biden made to fully back Israel against Iran and its proxy terrorist groups , including Hezbollah and Ukraine against Russia , a senior administration official emphasized shortly after Biden addressed the nation from the White House about the fall of Bashar Assad 's regime in Syria . <p> A line can be drawn from the " fateful decisions " that the US and Iran made in the days after October 7 , 2023 , to today , according to the official . <p> " Think , if you just go back , for example , the President 's Oval Office address to the American people on October 20 , 2023 , where he made the case to the American people to support these two close friends under attack , wars that they did not ask for and they did not start , but we were determined to support those friends in their hours of need , and we have done so , " the official said . <p> U.S. President Joe Biden leaves after speaking following Syrian rebels announced that they have ousted Syria 's Bashar al-Assad , at the White House , in Washington , U.S. , December 8 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/KEN CEDENO ) <p> And the " results speak for themselves , " he added , saying Hamas 's leaders are dead , and Iran , Hezbollah , and Russia are on their backs . <p> Now , he said , the Assad regime , Russia and Iran 's main ally in the Middle East , has just collapsed . <h> US support shifts Middle East balance <p> " None of this , none of this would have been possible absent the direct support for Ukraine and Russia in their own defense provided by the United States of America and the direct defense of Israel against Iran , as the President noted , and the relentless pressure that has been applied , " the official said . <p> Iran has effectively lost its main proxy group , has no strategic air defenses , and can not produce missiles because of the attacks that Israel conducted about a month ago , the official continued . <p> " So this is just a fundamental change in the equation of the entire Middle East , " he said . " I think it is something that will affect Iranian calculations , whether that is in the direction of diplomacy , obviously , we 'll have to see . " <p> During the momentous events over the last two weeks , from the Lebanon ceasefire now to the fall of Assad , the official said the administration is also working " assiduously " on the Gaza conflict , a ceasefire , and the release of hostages , because " we do believe there is a path here , given the dramatically changed balance of power in the region that the President spoke to today . " <p> " A path here to the Middle East that is far more stable , far more aligned with our interests , and far more aligned with the interests of the people of The Middle East who want to live in peace , without wars and prosperity in a region that is more integrated and prosperous and peaceful , " the official said . " So that is something we continue to work on . " 
@@118625031 <p> No , it 's not a new Middle East in the way former president and inveterate dreamer Shimon Peres envisioned when he coined the phrase in the 1990s after the Oslo Accords . For Peres , this was to be a Middle East of peace and harmony , born out of Israeli diplomatic daring and initiative , flowing from an agreement between Israel and the Palestinians.Instead , the New Middle East -- the one the world woke up to on Sunday morning with the fall of Bashar Assad and the end of his family 's brutal , 54-year reign in Syria -- is a region where war and enmity still dominate but where the balance of power has shifted dramatically . <p> Syria was the central pillar in Iran 's strategy of surrounding Israel with an arc of proxies bent on its destruction . With Assad 's fall , this arc -- which began in Iran and stretched through Iraq , Syria , and northern Lebanon and extended through Yemen and southern Gaza -- has been fractured.The vaunted " axis of resistance " is now a shadow of what it was just three months ago . Iran no longer stands as the dominant force sweeping through the region with momentum and an air of inevitability -- one key Arab city after another falling under its influence : Damascus , Beirut , Baghdad , Sanaa , and Gaza City . Who will replace it remains unclear , but the fact that Iran 's overall sway is on a steep decline means there is a new Middle East . SYRIAN PRESIDENT Bashar Assad attends the Arab League summit in Jeddah last month . ( credit : SAUDI PRESS AGENCY/REUTERS ) <p> Whether it will be an improved Middle East will take months and years to assess . But it is undeniably new , with fresh possibilities and new threats . <h> Israel 's role in Assad 's fall <p> Israel has played no small part in shaping this reality , as Peres once hoped -- but not in the way he imagined . This transformation came not through diplomatic daring but through military audacity . <p> That audacity saw Israel dismember Hamas militarily over the last 14 months , decapitate and defang Hezbollah , and deliver a decisive blow to Iran itself . These three developments -- triggered by Hamas 's brutal attack on October 7 -- set off the chain of events in Syria over the last eight days , culminating in something no one seemed to see coming : the fall of Assad.Oh , what irony : Hamas head Yahya Sinwar attacked , hoping to trigger a chain reaction from the " axis of resistance " that would bring about Israel 's downfall . Instead , it set up a chain reaction leading to the weakening of that very " axis of resistance " and to Assad 's downfall.This was not an objective Israel set out to achieve , but it is unmistakably a byproduct of its actions . <p> Now what ? How should Israel now navigate the chaos that is Syria -- with rival rebel groups representing different ideologies and ethnic groups certain to struggle for dominance -- to ensure these developments do not jeopardize its national security ? To do so , Israel must adopt a strategy similar to its approach in Lebanon since the ceasefire was established nearly two weeks ago : setting clear ground rules.Within hours of the ceasefire , Hezbollah tested Israel 's resolve by sending operatives to Kafr Kila just across from Metulla , approaching IDF tanks near the border , and encouraging people to return to villages in the south contrary to the agreement , which calls for the Lebanese army to deploy there first . <p> Israel 's response -- though somewhat confused in the first few hours after the ceasefire -- was decisive : it will not tolerate breaches of the agreement . It will not allow Hezbollah to reestablish positions south of the Litani River and will prevent efforts at rearming.If Hezbollah believed Israel would , for the sake of preserving quiet , accept violations of this agreement as it has in the past -- specifically UN Security Council Resolution 1701 that ended the Second Lebanon War in 2006 -- it has miscalculated.Israel has been active in Lebanon since the November 27 ceasefire , ensuring the terms of the agreement are upheld . According to the IDF , several dozen Hezbollah positions have been hit and some 25 Hezbollah operatives killed for violating the truce.Even though Israel has no formal agreements with any of the Syrian factions that have just toppled Assad -- though it has cooperated with certain rebel groups in the past -- it will need to act in Syria as it has in Lebanon : take preemptive measures against emerging threats.ISRAEL MUST establish ground rules early in the new rebel-run Syria , just as it did in Lebanon after the ceasefire went into effect . This includes preventing any rebel forces from entering the UN-mandated buffer zone that has been respected for 50 years , which Israel made clear it intended to do on Sunday by moving tanks and troops into the area.Establishing ground rules early also means ensuring that strategic weapons -- including chemical arms -- do not fall into the hands of rebels , some of whom are jihadists . This is already being done by the IDF , which , over the last few nights , has reportedly struck sensitive weapons depots and caches inside Syria.When discussing the agreement he brokered in Lebanon , US envoy Amos Hochstein said it was a " fantasy " to believe a security zone could be carved out of southern Lebanon to distance Hezbollah from the border.Amid the chaos and uncertainty in Syria , however , such a no-go buffer zone on the Golan Heights must be maintained , and anyone entering it must realize they do so at their peril . In the chaos of Syria , Israel can not allow hostile forces to approach its borders unchecked and must act decisively to prevent this.This is one of October 7 's cardinal lessons.Israel must also be willing to do this alone . US President-elect Donald Trump , in a social media post on Saturday , made clear that Israel 's potential problems in Syria will not be resolved by the US . " Syria is a mess , " he wrote , " but it is not our friend , and THE UNITED STATES SHOULD HAVE NOTHING TO DO WITH IT . THIS IS NOT OUR FIGHT . LET IT PLAY OUT . DO NOT GET INVOLVED ! " Trump and the US can afford to take this position because Syria is , indeed , not America 's friend , nor is this their fight . Geographically distant , events in Syria will not immediately or directly impact US security , though they are likely to do so indirectly in the future.As a paraphrase of an old adage goes : You might not be interested in the Middle East , but the Middle East is interested in you.This distance gives the US the luxury of treating Syria 's turmoil as a peripheral issue , at least for now . But for Israel , proximity means that the stakes are immediate and unavoidable . While what is happening now inside Syria may not be Israel 's fight , the outcome of this turmoil -- and what those who seize power do next -- is of great immediate concern.After all , another cardinal October 7 lesson is the absolute folly of adopting a laissez-faire approach to developments in a neighboring country or territory that poses an immediate threat.This was Israel 's approach to Gaza after withdrawal in 2005 -- let them fend for themselves and let the chips fall where they may ; the Jews across the border will hunker down behind an impenetrable border.This does not mean that Israel should be involved in engineering Syrian political reality in the post-Assad era . It does mean , however , that Jerusalem must act forcefully and with determination when it sees developments inside Syria during this twilight period between the end of Assad 's rule and the beginning of a new political reality that poses a threat to its national security.Trump 's social media post should remind Israelis that regardless of how supportive the president-elect might be of the Jewish state , Israel can not rely on others to safeguard its interests . To ensure that jihadists do not establish positions along its borders or that chemical weapons do not fall into rebel hands , Israel will need to act independently to secure its national interests.In the immediate aftermath of Assad 's fall , Jerusalem has shown it understands this well and intends to act accordingly . 
@@118625032 <h> " I feel I no longer belong in Canada and may need to flee , " one respondent reportedly told JMAO . <p> A Canadian flag flies in front of the Peace Tower on Parliament Hill in Ottawa , Ontario , Canada . March 22 , 2017. ( photo credit : REUTERS/CHRIS WATTIE ) <p> A third of Ontario 's Jewish medical practitioners are considering leaving Canada over the post-October rise of antisemitism in their field , according to a Jewish Medical Association of Ontario ( JMAO ) survey released on Wednesday . <p> In response to the increase of antisemitism in medical facilities and schools , 31% of the 1,000 Canadian Jewish doctors , medical students , and residents surveyed by JMAO are thinking of abandoning the country . <p> " I feel I no longer belong in Canada and may need to flee , " one respondent reportedly told JMAO . <p> " This could lead to hundreds of doctors leaving Ontario at a time when our system is crumbling , " said Kuper . " Unquestionably , our institutions need to step up and ensure the protection of Jewish doctors , healthcare professionals , medical students , and residents . We can and must do better . " People leave the encampment site after an Ontario judge ordered pro-Palestinian protesters to leave their two-month-old encampment at the University of Toronto , amid the ongoing conflict between Israel and Hamas , in Toronto , Ontario , Canada July 3 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/Carlos Osorio ) <p> Before October 7 , last year , 1% of the survey participants , of which half were in Ontario , felt that antisemitism was a severe problem in the medical field . Since the Hamas-led 2023 pogrom in Israel 's south , 98% were worried about the impact of antisemitism on the healthcare system . <h> Rising antisemitism in medical institutions <p> Over 80% of respondents had experienced antisemitism in medical institutions since the Levantine war sparked , whereas prior to the terrorist attack , 29% had experienced prejudice in their medical community , 39% in hospitals , and 43% in academic settings . 75% have experienced antisemitism in academic settings since October 7 , 2023 , and 64% have encountered Jew-Hatred in hospitals . <p> 57% of respondents said that since the war , they had experienced antisemitism through organizational policies , 55% through organizational communications , 53% through personal interactions with colleagues , 41% with non-physician staff , and 38% through administration . <p> " It is incredibly concerning to watch antisemitism creep into our medical institutions across the province . Discrimination does n't just impact doctors . It undermines the entire healthcare system , compromising patient care and eroding workplace integrity . This is a crisis for all people in Ontario , not just Jewish doctors , " said Kuper . <p> Over half of the survey participants expressed concern that Jewish patients could receive substandard care because of pervasive bias in the Canadian healthcare industry . <p> JMAO indicated that medical academic settings were the setting where respondents had most encountered antisemitism since October 7 last year , rising from almost a third to almost two-thirds . 27.5% of Jewish Ontario medical students had experienced antisemitism before October 7 , 2023 , and 62.7% said that they had experienced antisemitism after the mass terrorist attack . Just over a third of Canadian Jewish doctors are considering decreasing their teaching responsibilities , and 14% were found to have already withdrawn from teaching activities due to the " toxic " environment . <p> One respondent told JMAO that there was a " pervasive fear of antisemitism as a medical learner . " <p> In February , Dr. Ted Rosenberg told The Jerusalem Post that rising antisemitism had led him to resign from his clinical assistant professor role at the University of British Columbia . <p> Over 280 staff and students , including Rosenberg , had signed a December 2023 letter to administrators warning about the polarisation and politicization at UBC over the Israel-Gaza conflict . 
@@118625034 <p> Halevi made these comments after deploying IDF troops to the buffer zone between Syria and Israel on Sunday evening . <p> The ' Bashan ' ( 210 ) Division was deployed along Israel 's northeastern border , which touches with neighboring Syria . <p> " Since last night , we have been engaged in combat on four fronts . Ground troops are engaged in combat on four fronts : Against terrorism in Judea and Samaria , in Gaza , in Lebanon , and last night we deployed troops into Syrian territory . " <p> IDF Chief of the General Staff , Lt.-Gen . Herzi Halevi , met the recruits of the Golani Brigade at the Tel HaShomer Enlistment Center , December 8 , 2024 . ( CREDIT : IDF Spokesperson 's Unit ) <h> Increased readiness in Golan Heights <p> The assessment led troops to increase readiness in the Golan Heights in the last 24 hours , deploying additional ground and air forces to the Golan front and mobilizing other actors in the defense sector . <p> " Learn to stand together in unity because that 's the resilience of the State of Israel , being there for one another . " <p> The 474th Brigade began operating on the border to provide additional security to residents of the Golan Heights and Israel as a whole . <p> Read the latest news and analyses on the Syrian revolution from The Jerusalem Post : 
@@118625037 <h> With Syrian rebel forces rapidly advancing south toward Damascus after already taking Aleppo and Hama , the ground in Syria is shifting . <p> An anti-regime fighters stands in front of a damaged portrait of Syria 's President Bashar al-Assad spread on a government building in Hama , a day after rebels captured the Syrian central-west city , on December 6 , 2024. ( photo credit : MOHAMMED AL-RIFAI/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> The fall of Assad , an implacable foe of Israel who turned Syria into a staging ground for Iranian threats and weapons transfers to Hezbollah , is not something Israel would lament . <p> This shift is due in no small measure to the twin blows Israel dealt Hezbollah and Iran since the launch of Operation Northern Arrows in mid-September , aimed at returning displaced Israeli residents to their homes along the northern border . <p> In its war in Lebanon , Israel decapitated Hezbollah 's leadership , killed and wounded thousands of its fighters , and significantly degraded its missile and rocket capabilities . Hezbollah , which once fought in Syria to prop up the dictatorial regime of President Bashar al-Assad , is in no position to help Assad today as his regime has crumbled . <p> Nor , for that matter , is Iran , Assad 's chief backer alongside Russia . Syrian anti government fighters celebrate as they pour into the captured central-west city of Hama on December 6 , 2024. ( credit : MUHAMMAD HAJ KADOUR/AFP via Getty Images ) <h> Read the latest news and analyses on the Syrian revolution from The Jerusalem Post : <p> Iran also suffered blows at the hands of Israel -- most notably the destruction of much of its air defense network and critical missile manufacturing infrastructure during Jerusalem 's retaliatory raid on October 26 . <p> With Hezbollah severely weakened and Hamas in Gaza also no longer an effective proxy , Iran -- which has made an art form of sending others to be killed to further its own interests -- finds itself unable to provide Assad with the same level of assistance it once did . It also struggles to project the same regional power if wielded just a few months ago . <p> Assad 's other ally , Russia , whose intervention in the civil war in 2015 tipped the scales in his favor , is also unable to give Assad what it did in the past , preoccupied and overextended with its own war in Ukraine . <p> With Hezbollah , Iran , and Russia weakened -- two of them due to Israeli action -- Syrian rebels seized the opportunity to advance , launching their offensive on the same day a ceasefire was implemented in Lebanon . Hezbollah , weary and depleted , was in no position to counter the rebel advance . <h> Fall of Assad <p> The fall of Assad , an implacable foe of Israel who turned Syria into a staging ground for Iranian threats and weapons transfers to Hezbollah , is not something Israel would lament . However , the composition of the rebel forces threatening Assad 's regime is not an alliance that the Jewish state can applaud . <p> They are led by Sunni jihadists recently aligned with al-Qaeda and who remain on America 's list of terrorist organizations and also include Turkish-backed Islamists . <p> Israel has a clear interest in seeing Syria removed from Iran 's " Axis of Resistance , " ending its role as a host for Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps operatives and Iranian-sponsored militias and as a potential launchpad for attacks against Israel . <p> Syria under Assad was a crucial pillar of Hezbollah 's strength in Lebanon , serving as the main conduit for smuggling missiles and advanced weaponry into the country . If Syria is taken out of the equation , Hezbollah -- already reeling from Israel 's onslaught -- will face even greater difficulties rebuilding . <p> This would be welcome news for many in Lebanon seeking freedom from Hezbollah and Iran 's stranglehold . One significant side effect of Assad 's fall could be a chance for the Lebanese to finally regain control of their own country . <h> Developments along with complications <p> While these developments are largely positive for Israel , they come with complications . Jerusalem has no interest in seeing its neighbor to the northeast taken over by Sunni jihadists of the al-Qaeda ilk or Turkish-backed Islamists . Israel 's experience with such groups -- like Hamas in Gaza -- has been anything but encouraging . <p> What happens in Syria will most definitely have an impact on Israel in the future , which is why Jerusalem must keep a vigilant eye there , sending messages to all concerned that there are two developments it will not tolerate . The first is chemical weapons depots falling into the hands of jihadist or Islamist rebels , and the second is the mass deployment of Iranian troops into the country . <p> Those are redlines that , if crossed , would severely compromise Israel 's national security and would necessitate immediate Israeli action to prevent . <p> Beyond these redlines , however , Israel can do little to positively impact developments inside Syria , other than working behind the scenes with the US to establish channels with more moderate elements in the opposition , hoping they will emerge as a constructive force in shaping Syria 's future if and when Assad falls . 
@@118625038 <h> There is a dark lining that continues to delegitimize today 's Jewish state in the eyes of millions of people around the world . <p> The day of the United Nations vote on the Partition Plan of British Mandatory Palestine is celebrated as one of the happiest days of the Israeli and Zionist calendars . It was on this date that the international community formally recognized the Jewish right to its historic land , the land of Israel . <p> On November 29 , 1947 , the United Nations voted to divide the land of Israel into a Jewish state , an Arab state , and an international zone that would encompass Jerusalem and its surrounding areas . <p> For the first time in 2,000 years , the Jewish people would be able to establish their own independent state . Millions of Jews , exiles from the Roman times and two millennia of their descendants , were prevented by Christian and Arab nations from returning and governing their ancestors ' homeland . <p> Hundreds of thousands of Jews were murdered in attempts to return and settle their land over those years . For 2,000 years , Jews prayed every day to return to Jerusalem and rebuild their homeland . <p> In the late 1800s , a movement was started by Theodor Herzl to return the Jewish people to the land of Israel and establish their own state . This movement was called Zionism and took its name from another name for the land of Israel , Zion.ISRAEL 'S FIRST prime minister David Ben-Gurion ( center ) stands under a portrait depicting Theodore Herzl , the father of modern Zionism , as he reads Israel 's Declaration of Independence in Tel Aviv May 14 , 1948. ( credit : REUTERS ) <p> Herzl and the activists who took his mission after his young passing worked every day in the halls of governments around the world to convince the world 's powers to favor the return of the Jews to the land of Israel . <p> Jewish farmers began returning to the land and farming it , establishing a larger and larger Jewish footprint . Jewish warriors took defensive positions against local Arab attacks and British high-handedness against the fledging Jewish population . The United Nations ' vote validated these efforts and gave them concrete achievement . <p> From a religious perspective , the international legitimacy granted by the United Nations vote hearkened back to the days of the first Jewish exile by the Babylonians . Jewish scholars viewed the Persian ruler Cyrus 's granting the Jewish people permission to return to their land , govern it , and rebuild their Temple to be the international validation that gave the Jewish leaders of the time the Jewish legal ( according to Halacha ) authority to sanctify the land . <p> For many contemporary Jewish scholars , the Jewish people 's return to the land along with international validation was a theocratic moment of significance in Jewish history . <p> It is no wonder that in many cities throughout Israel there are streets named " The 29th of November . " In the dark cloud of the Holocaust that set over the Jewish people in the 1940s , the United Nations vote on partition of Mandatory Palestine was a silver lining . It did n't alleviate the suffering of the survivors and their mourning , but it allowed the Jewish people to see a brighter future ahead . <h> Darkening clouds <p> AS SIGNIFICANT as the United Nations vote granting the Jewish people the international legitimacy to return , settle , and govern their historic land was , there is a dark lining to the bright cloud of November 29 , 1947 . <p> The Jewish people were granted less than half of their historic homeland on that day . They were not given rights to the eternal Jewish capital of Jerusalem , Judea and Samaria , Gaza , the Golan Heights , and the entire Jordan Valley . <p> Over 75 years after the establishment of Israel , when Israel controls Jerusalem , Judea and Samaria , the Golan Heights , and , to some extent , Gaza , many will discount the limited partition plan as " water under the bridge . " <p> They argue that the Arabs made significant errors of refusing to recognize Israel as a Jewish state , going to war against Israel multiple times , and turning down repeated peace offers , and those errors led to Israel retaining control over most of its historic land -- even if the United Nations never granted it to them . <p> This was n't the reaction of the Zionist leaders at the time . While the leaders accepted the partition plan and the restrictions that came with it , they did so begrudgingly , and with ambitions to take more land after the establishment of the state . <p> The governing and representative body of the Jewish people in the late 1940s was the Jewish Agency . It responded to the partition plan by criticizing the proposed boundaries and agreed to accept the plan if " it would make possible the immediate re-establishment of the Jewish State with sovereign control of its own immigration . " <p> In a speech he delivered about the idea of partitioning the land , Zionist leader David Ben-Gurion said , " The acceptance of partition does not commit us to renounce Transjordan . One does not demand from anybody to give up his vision . We shall accept a state in the boundaries fixed today , but the boundaries of Zionist aspirations are the concern of the Jewish people and no external factor will be able to limit them . " <p> In an address to the Israeli cabinet after the founding of the state , Ben-Gurion said , " Why should we obligate ourselves to accept boundaries that in any case the Arabs do n't accept ? " In a letter to his son , Ben-Gurion wrote , " My assumption ( which is why I am a fervent proponent of a state , even though it is now linked to partition ) is that a Jewish state on only part of the land is not the end but the beginning . " <p> EVEN THOUGH Israel controls more than the limited borders of the 1947 partition plan over 75 years later , it still matters . The international community has not accepted the legitimacy of Israel 's return , settling , and governing of lands not granted to it by the 1947 vote . It largely considers Israel occupiers of the heartland of its own homeland , including Jerusalem , Judea and Samaria , and the Golan Heights . <p> Many advocate boycotting , divesting , and sanctioning Israel over its occupation of these lands . Some have gone so far as to legitimize terrorism against Israeli civilians because Israel controls more than the land the United Nations granted it . <p> While November 29 , 1947 , stands as a day of celebration on the Israeli calendar , it is important for Zionists to be cognizant of the long-standing repercussions of the partition plan . There is a dark lining that continues to delegitimize today 's Jewish state in the eyes of millions of people around the world . <p> This delegitimization has lent support , voice , and power to the violent enemies of Israel who have murdered thousands of Jews over the past six decades since Israel has taken control of Jerusalem , Gaza , the Golan Heights , and Judea and Samaria . The Jewish people 's celebrations are not yet complete . <p> The writer is a Zionist educator at institutions around the world . He recently published his book , Zionism Today . 
@@118625039 <h> Hypocrisy and deception : The gender segregation bill - opinion <h> Legislation that is so deeply rooted in hypocrisy and deception should not be considered by the legislative bodies of Israel . <p> MK LIMOR SON HAR-MELECH attends a meeting of the Knesset Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee , earlier this year . She has presented a bill which seeks to expand and legitimize gender segregation in Israel 's institutions of higher education , beyond what the High Court has permitted. ( photo credit : Chaim Goldberg/Flash90 ) <p> I wish to highlight another reason why this proposal should have been rejected outright : It reeks of hypocrisy and deception , and it is time to set a moral barrier against such dishonest legislation . <p> The issue at hand is not new but is particularly glaring in this instance . The bill 's explanatory notes claim that it is " based on the recognition of freedom of religion and conscience ... as a broad fundamental right . " On the surface , this language appears commendable and worthy of support , especially during these turbulent times when we look to the " day after " and the reimagining of Israel as a truly Jewish and democratic state . After all , Israel 's Declaration of Independence , promises " freedom of religion and conscience " alongside " equality of rights ... regardless of religion , race , or gender . " <p> However , the hypocrisy of MK Son Har-Melech and her party could not be more blatant . While claiming to champion freedom of religion , they actively oppose the very principles of freedom of religion and conscience guaranteed by the Declaration of Independence . Her insistence that the bill reflects " the recognition of freedom of religion and conscience as a broad fundamental right " is the most grotesque form of hypocrisy and deception . <p> It recalls the Talmudic adage attributed to Alexander Yannai : " Fear not the Pharisees , nor the non-Pharisees , but the hypocrites who appear to be Pharisees ; their deeds are like those of Zimri , yet they demand the reward of Phineas . " MK LIMOR Son Har-Melech speaks during a protest outside the Supreme Court in Jerusalem , earlier this year . She has proposed an amendment to the Negev Development Law that would enable Kiryat Arba to receive the same benefits as the Gaza border communities . ( credit : Chaim Goldberg/Flash90 ) <h> " Freedom of religion " <p> The " freedom of religion " invoked by MK Son Har-Melech is not the universal principle recognized by enlightened democracies . Instead , it is a narrowly defined freedom for a specific brand of religious Jews to enforce gender-segregated university programs at the expense of gender equality while subverting Supreme Court rulings . This is not freedom of religion as a " broad fundamental right " ; it is a blemish on Israeli academia , a discriminatory policy benefiting Son Har-Melech 's religious and ideological allies while denying religious freedom and freedom from religion to others -- Jews and non-Jews alike . <p> In other areas , MK Son Har-Melech and her party actively perpetuate religious coercion , discrimination , and assaults on individual liberties and human dignity , all while trampling the very principle of freedom of religion they claim to uphold . <p> Well-known examples include their opposition to freedom of marriage in Israel , which denies hundreds of thousands of citizens the right to marry . They impose the authority of the Orthodox Chief Rabbinate on all Jewish citizens , despite its extreme Orthodox interpretation of Jewish law , which is rejected by an overwhelming majority of Israeli and world Jews . Similarly , they oppose public transportation on Shabbat , infringing on the freedom of the majority who support such services and hurting segments of the population who do not have private cars or are unable to drive . <p> Consistent polling , including the annual Religion and State Index published by Hiddush , reveals that 65 -- 75% of Israelis support marriage freedom and public transportation on Shabbat . These majorities also endorse all other aspects of religious freedom and conscience , all of which are systematically undermined by MK Son Har-Melech and her allies . They cynically claim to base their legislation on " broad fundamental rights of freedom of religion and conscience , " while promoting gender segregation in higher education in direct contradiction to democratic and egalitarian values . <p> This is not about religious freedom but about expanding the exclusion of women and eroding the fundamental principles of a democratic and egalitarian society . In addition to all other justified objections to this bill , it is time to introduce an ethical threshold that blocks such proposals at the outset . 
@@118652022 <p> Abu Mohammad al-Jolani , leader of the Hayat Tahrir al-Sham met with Prime Minister Mohammad Ghazi al-Jalali , according to video distributed in an apparent attempt to demonstrate an orderly transfer of power after 13 years of civil war . <p> Israel said it had struck suspected chemical weapons sites in Syria to prevent them from falling into " the hands of extremists . " The United States ordered more than 75 strikes on ISIS camps to stop the terrorist group from taking advantage of the upheaval . <p> A day after Syrian rebels captured the capital city of Damascus , NBC News ' Richard Engel spoke to residents in the city 's main square , who said the fall of Bashar al-Assad 's regime will bring the country " freedom . " <p> The video showsal-Jalali seated with three others , including al-Jolani , in an apparent attempt to demonstrate an orderly transfer of power after 13 years of civil war . <p> Al-Jolani is heard saying in Arabic that Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , the group he leads , has " gained a great deal of experience . " <p> " You will see that they possess expertise and have achieved considerable success , " he added . <p> The video was distributed by SANA , Syria 's state news agency , which is now controlled by the rebels . <p> HTS , the most powerful of the rebel groups that toppled dictator Bashar al-Assad , has historic ties to Al Qaeda , although al-Jolani has more recently sought to distance himself from the terrorist group . <p> After Assad fled the country and rebels captured the capital , Damascus , al-Jalali said that he did not plan to leave " except in a peaceful manner that ensures the continued functioning of public institutions and state facilities , promoting security and reassurance for our fellow citizens . " <p> The government is ready to cooperate with " any leadership chosen by the Syrian people , " al-Jalali said . <h> Oil prices rise after Syrian President Bashar al-Assad ousted <p> Hannah Peart <p> Oil prices rose by more than 1% on Monday after the fall of Bashar al Assad 's regime in Syria and amid increasing uncertainty in the Middle East . <p> U.S. West Texas Intermediate ( WTI ) crude futures , the U.S. benchmark , gained 91 cents , or 1.35% , to $68.11 by 06:36 a.m . ET . <p> Brent crude futures , the benchmark used to price over three-quarters of the world 's traded oil and the international standard went up 84 cents , or 1.18% , to $68.04 per barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange by 6:36 a.m . ET . <h> Blinken says end of Assad regime is ' historic opportunity ' but carries ' considerable risks ' <p> Abigail Williams <p> U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Monday that the toppling of Bashar al-Assad 's regime presents " a historic opportunity " but also " carries considerable risks . " <p> " History shows how quickly moments of promise can descend into conflict and violence , " Blinken said . " ISIS will try to use this period to reestablish its capabilities to create safe havens , as our precision strikes over the weekend demonstrate we are determined not to let that happen and will continue to protect our personnel against any threats from any quarters . " <p> Blinken also said the U.S. has a " strong interest in preventing the re-emergence of ISIS " in Syria and that chemical weapons in the country do not fall in the wrong hands . Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) has pledged not to use chemical weapons and affirmed its commitment not to allow them to fall into irresponsible hands . <p> Blinken said statements from the rebel group are welcome , but " the real measure of their commitment is not just what they say , but what they do . " <p> " The Syrian people have endured so much suffering , we have work to do to ensure that they endure no more , " he said . " It 's imperative that all actors involved protect civilians , respect human rights , especially vulnerable minorities , preserve the state 's institutions and services , help meet the needs of the Syrian people and to build toward inclusive governance . " <h> Qatar condemns Israel 's seizure of Golan Heights buffer zone <p> Following the downfall of Bashar al-Assad 's regime , Israel carried out strikes and launched a ground incursion into Syria . The Israeli government said it was a temporary measure to prevent chemical and biological weapons from getting into the wrong hands . Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , which led the assault against Assad along with other groups , has pledged not to use chemical weapons or allow them to fall into irresponsible hands , according to a statement . <p> Qatar 's Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in a statement the move is " a dangerous development and a blatant attack on the sovereignty and unity of Syria , " as well as " a flagrant violation of international law . " <p> " The Ministry of Foreign Affairs warns that the policy of imposing a fait accompli pursued by the Israeli occupation , including its attempts to occupy Syrian lands , will lead the region to more violence and tension , " the ministry said on X , further calling on <p> The ministry called on the international community to confront Israel on its recent actions in Syria and reiterated its support for the country 's sovereignty . <h> U.S. renews efforts to bring journalist Austin Tice home from Syria <p> Abigail Williams <p> U.S. Special Envoy for Hostage Affairs Roger Carstens is in Beirut , Lebanon , as part of intensive efforts to bring journalist Austin Tice home , a U.S. official with direct knowledge tells NBC News . <p> The U.S. is reaching out to anyone in Syria or the region who is able to help , the official said . <p> Tice , a former U.S. marine , is believed to have been detained by the government of Bashar al-Assad in 2012 while he was in Syria to cover its lengthy conflict . The Syrian Foreign Ministry denied kidnapping or holding any American citizen on its territories in 2022 . <h> Rebel group pledges not to use chemical weapons <p> Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , one of the groups responsible for toppling the Assad regime , has pledged not to use chemical weapons or allow them to fall into the wrong hands . <p> The Department of Political Affairs Administration of the Liberated , led by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , said the Assad regime used chemical weapons against the Syrian people " dozens of times , " resulting in thousands of deaths . <p> " We clearly affirm that we have no intention or desire to use chemical weapons or any weapons of mass destruction under any circumstances , " the group said . " We consider the use of such weapons a crime against humanity and will not allow any weapon to be used against civilians or be transformed into a tool of revenge or destruction . " <p> The group also said it is working to secure the weapons and military sites belonging to the former regime and will not allow them " to fall into irresponsible hands . " <p> Following the downfall of the Assad regime , Israel carried out strikes and launched a ground incursion into Syria in what the Israeli government said was a temporary measure to prevent chemical and biological weapons from getting into the wrong hands . The country seized a buffer zone in the Golan Heights established by a 1974 ceasefire agreement with Syria . <h> Jordan 's King Abdullah II wants to ' ensure stability ' in Syria <p> Ammar Cheikh Omar <p> During a phone call with U.S. President Joe Biden , King Abdullah II of Jordan expressed the need to " ensure stability " in Syria . <p> According to a statement from the Royal Hashemite Court , Abdullah also spoke to Biden about the current situation in Gaza , the West Bank and Lebanon . <p> " His Majesty also called for intensifying international efforts to stop the Israeli war on Gaza and ensure the delivery of relief aid to the Strip , noting the importance of working to ensure the success of the ceasefire in Lebanon , " the statement read . " His Majesty warned of the danger of violent acts by extremist settlers against Palestinians in the West Bank , and violations of Islamic and Christian holy sites in Jerusalem . " <h> ' So many people deemed dead -- they are alive ' <p> For years , Abdulaziz Almashi believed one of his close relatives was dead , only to find out he had been languishing in prison for more than a decade . <p> " A young boy spending years of his youth in a prison -- in Assad 's prisons , which is a different type of prison , " Almashi , a Syrian refugee in London who founded the organization Syria Solidarity Campaign , said of the facilities known for torture and killings . <p> Almashi , 39 , said authorities told his family his second cousin had been killed during mandatory military service , leaving them to believe their loved one had died fighting for Assad . But in the wake of Assad 's toppling , he emerged free , now in his 30s , from one of Syria 's prisons , emaciated and weary after a devastating yearslong ordeal but very much alive to the shock of his loved ones . <p> " How dare you call someone 's mom and dad and family when they call to ask about their son and you tell them , ' Oh , he died on the battlefield , ' " Almashi said . " It does n't make sense how on earth these people are living with us ; how on earth these people are Syrians . " <p> Almashi said his family is far from alone in its harrowing ordeal . <p> " So many people deemed dead -- they are alive , " he said . <h> Photos : Inside the ransacked Iranian embassy in Damascus <p> Matthew Nighswander <p> Hussein Malla / AP <p> Syrian opposition fighters stand at the entrance of the ransacked Iranian embassy in Damascus yesterday . <p> A man steps on a Syrian regime flag next to Iranian national flags in a ransacked office at the embassy yesterday . <h> Hamas congratulates Syrians for achieving ' aspirations for freedom and justice ' <p> Hannah Peart <p> Hamas congratulated the Syrian people on " their success in achieving their aspirations for freedom and justice , " in a statement on Telegram after Assad 's regime was toppled . <p> Hamas called upon " all components of the Syrian people to unite their ranks " and for " national cohesion " among the Syrian people . <p> Hamas is a U.S.-designated terrorist group that carried out the Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack in Israel . <h> Crowds gather inside notorious Damascus prison <p> Matthew Nighswander <p> Ali Haj Suleiman / Getty Images <p> Crowds of Syrians passed through the gates today at Saydnaya prison , known as the " human slaughterhouse , " where thousands of people were said to be detained and tortured by the Assad regime . Some were hoping to find information about detained and missing relatives . <p> A man holds up a noose found at the prison.Getty Images / Getty ImagesA man breaks the lock of a cell.Hussein Malla / APPeople walk through a corridor at the prison.Hussein Malla / AP <h> Syrian Parliament pledges resources to new administration <p> The Syrian Parliament has pledged resources to the country 's new administration following the fall of the Assad regime . <p> Parliament added in a statement that the will of the Syrian people " stands above all else , " and that it will " support the people 's desire to build a new Syria with a bright future where the law and justice prevail for all , without discrimination . " <p> " We dedicate our resources to serve our great people as they strive to build a prosperous future , committed to their free will as they move toward a better tomorrow , led by those who liberated them toward a rising Syria , " the statement read . <p> It was unclear how the Syrian Parliament was working with Hayat Tahrir al-Sham and other groups that led the assault against former President Bashar al-Assad . <h> Watchdog group urges Syria to meet chemical weapons goals <p> The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons is urging Syria 's new regime to fulfill obligations not completed by Bashar al-Assad during his presidency . <p> Syria entered the Chemical Weapons Convention in 2013 under the Assad regime , barring the administration from developing , producing , acquiring , stockpiling , retaining , transferring or using chemical weapons , according to the organization . Syria is also required to disclose its chemical weapons and related facilities to the watchdog group . <p> For the past 11 years , the organization says , " use of toxic chemicals as weapons has been documented and investigated by the OPCW Technical Secretariat , as well as other independent international investigative bodies . " <p> The Secretariat reached out to Syria to remind it of its obligation as a party to the Chemical Weapons Convention and is " closely monitoring the situation , " it said . <h> What to know about Assad 's fall and what might happen next in Syria <p> For much of its 13 years , the horrors of Syria 's grinding civil war felt unending . Now , after just 11 days , the regime of President Bashar al-Assad is gone . <p> Murat Sengul / Anadolu via Getty Images <p> However , this is far from a quick , simple fix . The rebels who toppled Assad are led by a group that the United States and others regard as a terrorist organization . And they reclaim a Syria deeply scarred by more than a decade of war -- with no clear path to what happens next or how it might be governed . <p> After Syrian rebels took control of Damascus and forced out President Bashar al-Assad 's regime , Israel carried out strikes and launched a ground incursion into Syria in what the Israeli government says is a temporary measure to prevent chemical and biological weapons from getting into the wrong hands . <p> Israel seized a buffer zone in the Golan Heights established by a 1974 ceasefire agreement with Syria . <h> Syrian prison tunnels investigated in Damascus <p> Teams continue to investigate allegations of a secret compartment in Sednaya Military Prison this morning , after armed groups opposing Syria 's Bashar al-Assad regime took control in Damascus . <h> 12-hour curfew introduced , Syrian Ministry of Information says <p> Hannah Peart <p> A curfew will start at 5 p.m. local time and last until 5 a.m. as Syrian rebels work to strengthen their control over the country , the Syrian Ministry of Information said today . <p> The Syrian Ministry of Information has not specified how long the 12-hour curfew will remain in effect . <p> It will apply to the capital , Damascus , and its surrounding areas , as well as the cities of Latakia and Tartus in western Syria . Emergency services , including doctors , ambulance teams , fire services , and internal security forces , are exempt from the curfew . <p> Those who violate the curfew will face a one-month prison sentence , the Ministry of Information 's added in the statement . <h> Syrian ambassador to Russia says Assad 's escape was " shameful and humiliating , " according to state media <p> Maya Manna , head of RT Arabic , posted on Telegram that Jaafari described Assad 's government as a " corrupt system " which failed " in a matter of days , " highlighting the " unpopularity and lack of support " of the regime within both the Syrian military and society at large . <p> The Syrian ambassador to Russia added the " shameful and humiliating escape of the head of this system " reflects a lack of " national responsibility to the country " and " confirms the need for the changes that have taken place , " according to Manna 's Telegram channel . <p> There is " hope for a better future " in the country , the Syrian ambassador to Russia added , according to the social media post . <p> Powerful images have emerged showing people , including women and children , being freed from prisons across the country after the toppling of Assad , whose brutal regime saw hundreds of thousands of political prisoners disappear into jails where many faced torture and death . <p> And while Assad was in Moscow having fled the country , one facility known as the " human slaughterhouse " was being searched for signs of secret underground cells . <h> Dozens of luxury cars seen in video that appears to show Assad 's collection <p> A viral video posted on social media yesterday and verified by NBC News shows dozens of luxury cars allegedly belonging to Bashar al-Assad . <p> The cars are parked in a garage in western Damascus , near the Syrian capital 's presidential palace . <h> Government buildings burn in Damascus <p> Max Butterworth <p> A portrait of ousted Syrian President Bashar al-Assad is displayed on the side of a burning government building in Damascus this morning . <p> Omar Haj Kadour / AFP - Getty Images <h> Syria 's White Helmets group offers $3,000 for information on locations of secret prisons <p> Hannah Peart <p> Syria 's White Helmets group is offering a $3,000 reward for " anyone who provides information that helps locate secret prisons and detention centers where detainees are held . " <p> The volunteer relief group formally known as Syrian Civil Defense made a direct appeal to " former security officers and those working in the security branches to help reach these secret prisons , " in a post on X today . <p> The group emphasized the critical importance of this contribution and assured anyone who provided information would be " guaranteed " confidentiality . <p> The organization expressed its " full solidarity with the families and relatives of the victims " and urged families waiting for updates to " be patient and not to dig in the prisons or tamper with them " as doing so could harm the search . <p> The presence of Israeli forces in Syrian territory is temporary and out of precaution , Israeli Foreign Minister Gideon Saar told reporters today as the Israeli military moved to seize the entirety of the buffer zone in the occupied Golan Heights . <p> " I emphasize it is a very limited and temporary step , we took from security reasons , " he said . <p> His comments came as Israel launched strikes on parts of Golan Heights it has annexed , with Saar saying the military was attacking weapon sites , including those with suspected chemical weapons . <h> Chants of ' freedom ' on drive to Damascus as proud Syrians celebrate toppling Assad <p> Syrians are proud of this new dawn , and still in disbelief that Assad is really gone . <p> As NBC News entered Syria this morning from neighboring Lebanon , pictures of the Assad family were defaced at the border crossing . On the drive to the capital , we passed boys on an abandoned government tank cheering , " Huriya , " Arabic for " freedom . " <p> Syria now has a new hope , new possibilities and significant challenges as the map of the Middle East is being redrawn by the hour . <h> Syrian prime minister says Cabinet working to ensure smooth transition of power <p> Volker Turk , United Nations high commissioner for human rights , said today that the political transition in Syria must " ensure accountability for perpetrators of serious violations . " <p> He told a news conference that it was " essential that the human rights of all Syrians are at the core of such a process . " <p> He also highlighted the need for " meaningful and inclusive participation , " particularly from women and young people , in the transition of power post-Assad . <p> After " decades of brutal repression and nearly 14 years of relentless conflict , " there is now an opportunity for Syria to build a future " grounded in human rights , freedom , and justice , " he said . <h> Syrians wait to cross at the border in southern Turkey <p> Max Butterworth <p> Khalil Hamra / AP <p> A young girl waits to cross into Syria from Turkey at the Oncupinar border gate , near the town of Kilis , in southern Turkey this morning . Civilians haul luggage toward the Cilvegozu border gate , near the town of Antakya in Turkey this morning , as they cross into Syria . <p> Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin said , " Most everyone in the international community was surprised with the rapid collapse of Bashar Assad 's rule over Syria , as well as how quickly rebel forces seized control of the country . " <h> Syrians around the world eager to reunite with their loved ones <p> Syrians at home and abroad are rejoicing after the toppling of Assad 's brutal regime , with many forced to flee as refugees anxious to return to their homeland and be reunited with their loved ones . <p> " As soon as they open the airport , I will be there and I will kiss the soil of Syria , " Salem Alaya , who fled from Syria to Britain as a refugee in 2014 , said in a phone interview this morning . <p> Alaya , 38 , said he was eager to be reunited with his mother after so many years apart -- but , for his father , who died in 2016 , just two years after he left , he said , this moment in history comes too late . <p> " He passed away and I could not attend his funeral , " he said , adding : " My wish is just to say goodbye to my grandmother before she passes away ... I could not say that to my dad . " <p> Still , Alaya , a father of three and now a British citizen , has built a life with his family in London , where he is in the process of starting a business as a chartered accountant . His life is here now , he said , reflecting a reality shared by many refugees and asylum seekers around the world . <p> But he is anxious to be able to return to Syria , where he says a number of his loved ones and friends have been held for years as political prisoners , with no word on their whereabouts or conditions for just as long . <p> " Maybe they died . Maybe they disappeared . Maybe they have been killed inside the prison , " he said . " I hope that we can hear about them . " <p> " We hope all relevant parties will prioritize the fundamental interests of the Syrian people and find a political solution to restore stability in Syria as soon as possible , " she said at a regular news briefing . <p> China had earlier said its embassy in Syria was still operational and providing assistance to its nationals trying to leave the country . <p> Asked whether he had concerns about those meetings , which took place in 2017 , Trump said no , citing his meetings as president with Russian President Vladimir Putin , Chinese President Xi Jinping and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un , although those meetings were public . <p> " But look , people meet . All these people meet . I mean , I see some of the most dishonest people , " Trump said yesterday in an interview with Kristen Welker , moderator of NBC News ' " Meet the Press . " <p> Lawmakers , intelligence officials , rights activists and others have expressed deep misgivings about Gabbard , who has been accused of echoing propaganda spread by Russia and the Assad regime , being nominated as the country 's highest-ranking intelligence official . <p> Last week , almost 100 former diplomats , national security officials and intelligence officials wrote a letter urging Senate leaders to " carefully evaluate " whether Gabbard is " equipped " for the position , which requires Senate confirmation . A spokesperson for Gabbard dismissed the criticism as unfounded . <h> Syrian rebels ride military hardware through Damascus <p> Max Butterworth <p> Louai Beshara / AFP - Getty ImagesLouai Beshara / AFP - Getty Images <p> A military tank abandoned by the Syrian army is driven through Damascus ' Zablatani district today , after rebel forces took control of the capital . <p> Civil defense workers from Syria 's White Helmets have said that they have not yet found any secret cells in Assad 's notorious Saydnaya prison , as they search the site amid fears detainees may be held underground . <p> The White Helmets are a volunteer relief group formally known as Syrian Civil Defense that operates in Syria and Turkey . They say they are working with people familiar with the prison , and residents who claim to know the locations of hidden entrances and basements . <p> Despite this , currently " there is no evidence confirming the presence of detainees in the basements or cellars of the prison , " the group said this morning . <p> They add that they will continue the thoroughly search all areas using " searching tools , sound sensors " and " trained dogs " to assist in the search . <p> Iran 's intelligence services were fully aware about the rebels and their information had been shared with the Assad 's government , Iranian foreign minister Abbas Araghchi told Iran 's state news agency IRNA last night . <p> " If the Syrian army had resisted , even Aleppo would not have fallen , " he said . <p> " What was surprising was the inability of the Syrian army to confront the movement of the armed groups , and the second was the speed of the movements , " he added . <p> Meanwhile a senior Iranian official told Reuters that Tehran has established a direct line of communication with rebels within Syria 's new leadership in an effort to " prevent a hostile trajectory " between the two countries . <p> " This engagement is key to stabilize ties and avoiding further regional tensions , " the senior official said . <h> Syrian embassy in Moscow flies opposition 's green flag <p> The Syrian embassy in Moscow is flying the flag of the opposition today after lowering its existing flag following the sweeping takeover by rebel forces , according to the Russian state news agency TASS and photos on news agencies . <h> Israel says it struck suspected chemical weapons sites in Syria <p> " The only interest we have is the security of Israel and its citizens , " he said . " That 's why we attacked strategic weapons systems , like , for example , remaining chemical weapons , or long-range missiles and rockets , in order that they will not fall in the hands of extremists . " <p> His comments came amid Israeli bombardment of the Israeli-annexed Golan Heights where plumes of spoke rose over the Syrian Governorate of Quneitra . <p> Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz said yesterday he ordered the Israeli military to take full control of the buffer zone with Syria in Golan Heights . <p> Katz said he took the decision alongside his boss Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . " We are here to clearly state our determination to ensure the security of the Golan Heights communities , " he said in a post on X. <p> The HTS rebels that led the assault have maintained that they are willing to cooperate with the international community regarding these weapons and to provide guarantees against their use . <h> U.S. Air Force conducts more than 75 strikes on ISIS targets amid Syria regime change <p> The U.S. ordered dozens of " precision airstrikes " against ISIS camps and operatives throughout Syria yesterday , Central Command said . <p> More than 75 strikes were carried out against Islamic State-related targets in an effort to degrade its capabilities and prevent ISIS from taking advantage of the current situation in Syria . The Air Force used a variety of aircraft , including B-52s , F-15s and A-10s . <p> Gen. Michael Erik Kurilla said all groups in the area should be aware the U.S. will act " if they partner with or support ISIS in any way . " <p> " There should be no doubt -- we will not allow ISIS to reconstitute and take advantage of the current situation in central Syria , " he said . <h> Rebels take control of Syria , Assad flees country <p> Raf Sanchez <p> Reporting from Tel Aviv <p> Assad relinquishes control of Syria after rebel groups take Damascus and all the latest from the region . 
@@118652026 <p> In recent months , Iran has proved unable to thwart Israeli covert operations from targeting key figures in the regime , defend itself from damaging Israeli airstrikes , or protect an ally next door that was a linchpin in its regional proxy network , dubbed the " axis of resistance . " <p> For decades , Syria has served as a vital land bridge to Iran 's Hezbollah militia in Lebanon , allowing Tehran to ferry weapons to its partners across the Syrian border . After a mass uprising against Assad in 2011 , Russia provided air power for Damascus and Iran propped up the brutal ruler with weapons , cash , Iranian Revolutionary Guard officers and militants from Iranian-backed proxy forces in Lebanon , Iraq and elsewhere . <p> But when Syrian rebel forces seized Aleppo last month against poorly trained , demotivated Syrian army troops , Iran was caught off guard at a difficult moment , with its military depleted from Israeli air raids and its proxy forces in Lebanon decimated from fighting with Israel , current and former U.S. officials said . As the rebels pressed ahead , there was no concerted effort to stop the advance with Russian warplanes or Iranian-backed proxy forces . <p> The dramatic events over the weekend marked " a fundamental change in the equation of the entire Middle East , " a senior Biden administration official told reporters on Sunday . " Assad was effectively abandoned because his only friends ... Iran , Hezbollah and Russia , no longer had the capacity to help , " the official added . <p> Iran 's weakened position has challenged prevailing assumptions in Washington and other capitals about Iran 's power and resilience , as well as expectations about how a direct clash between Israel and Iran would play out , former U.S. intelligence officials and experts said . <p> " You have a series of myths that have evaporated over the last year , " said one former U.S. official . <p> The United States and other governments had feared an Israeli attack on Iran would produce an overwhelming response against Israel by Iran 's proxies . There also was a widespread view that Iran 's vast missile arsenal would deter Israel from ever directly attacking , and if it did , Tehran might overwhelm Israeli air defenses in retaliation . <p> And there were fears that a direct clash between Iran and Israel would result in an open-ended conflagration that would draw in the United States and other countries . <p> None of those scenarios came to pass . <p> Israeli air raids against Iran did not trigger a crippling response from Iran 's proxies in Lebanon , Gaza , Iraq or Yemen . It was unclear whether those proxy forces lacked the means and the will to act more aggressively , or whether Tehran 's leadership was reluctant to confront Israel directly , former officials said . <p> With crucial help from the United States and its allies , Israel was able to shoot down most of the ballistic missiles and drones launched by Iran . Hezbollah , the Lebanese militia armed and trained by Iran , have proved no match for Israel 's military and intelligence operations , which have killed much of its leadership and penetrated its communications . <p> Those incorrect assumptions about Iran " shaped and indeed constrained regional and U.S. policy on Iran , " said Norman Roule , former senior U.S. intelligence official and senior adviser to United Against Nuclear Iran , a nonprofit that focuses on combating threats posed by Iran . <p> The loss of Syria as a reliable and subservient ally has likely irreparably damaged Iran 's proxy network , which Tehran viewed as a defensive wall protecting Iran and a way of fighting countries with more powerful conventional militaries , current and former U.S. officials said . <p> " The fall of Assad really puts a big question mark around whether the ' axis of resistance ' is still feasible , " said Alex Vatanka of the Middle East Institute , a Washington-based think tank . " Iran paid billions in the last two decades to establish this ' forward defense ' model -- and for a long time it delivered results , " he said . <p> " But once under pressure , the model and the Arab partners of Iran have proven to lack the capacity to withstand pressure , " Vatanka added . " It began with Hezbollah and now Assad . " <p> Mohammad Ali Abtahi , a former vice president of Iran , wrote on social media shortly before the Assad government collapsed that the fall of the regime " would be one of the most significant events in the history of the Middle East . " Abtahi added that " resistance in the region would be left without support . Israel would become the dominant force . " <p> Recent events , including the failure to fend off anti-regime rebel forces in Syria over the past two weeks , have exposed a " rot " inside Iran 's military and security apparatus , Roule said . <p> " Starting with the killing of Soleimani in 2020 , Iran faced a series of setbacks and defeats that exposed weaknesses and failures in Iran 's intelligence and security services , " Roule said , referring to Gen. Qassem Soleimani , the leader of the Revolutionary Guard Corps ' Quds Force , who was killed by a U.S. drone strike in Baghdad in January 2020 . <p> " Over the past year , Israel accelerated this rot through its killing of a large number of experienced IRGC ( Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps ) and Hezbollah officers involved in Syria , " he said . <p> Those officers had decades of experience in Syria and a network of contacts among the militants in Iran 's proxy network , including Iraqis , Afghans , Pakistanis , Yemenis and others . <p> " When those officers and their ' rolodex ' were lost , Iran 's bureaucratic cohesion and efficiency suffered , " Roule said . <p> It was unclear why commanders in the Revolutionary Guard Corps ' Quds Force , which oversees the proxy network and has worked closely with the Syrian army , did not take decisive action to rescue the Assad regime 's forces . In both Lebanon and Syria in recent months , Iran has chosen not to deploy its own forces in significant numbers to aid its partners . <p> The loss of Syria has undermined the image Iran cultivated about its Quds Force being an elite military unit able to defeat its adversaries and protect Shiite populations abroad . <p> Iran now may have second thoughts about the Oct. 7 attack on Israel last year by Iranian-backed Hamas militants in Gaza , which Tehran applauded at the time . The attack , masterminded by the late Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar , caught Israel by surprise but set off a chain of events that have undermined Iran on multiple fronts , culminating in the demise of the Assad regime , according to Marc Polymeropoulos , a former CIA officer with experience in the Middle East . <p> " The Iranian axis of resistance has crumbled thanks to one person , Yahya Sinwar , who started this on October 7 , " Polymeropoulos said . <p> Although Iran has suffered a blow in the short term , it will most likely seek to rebuild its proxy forces , possibly by using Yemen as a hub or exploiting possible chaos in Syria after Assad 's exit . <p> The United States and Arab partners will need to cut off Iran 's ability to dispatch weapons and trainers to Lebanon to ensure that Tehran does not rebuild its militant network , said Sen. Andy Kim , D-N.J. , a former U.S. diplomat . <p> " I think it 's in our national security interest that we cut off Iran 's capabilities in Syria because that 's how they were transitioning and transferring weapons to Hezbollah , through the ground as well as overflight over Iraq and Syria , " Kim told MSNBC . " And if we 're able to sever this right now , this could be not just a setback but a devastating blow . " <p> With its air defenses , missile arsenal and regional status damaged , Iran will have to decide how to manage its nuclear program and how to approach the new U.S. administration under President-elect Donald Trump , who imposed severe economic sanctions on Tehran during his first term . Those sanctions have remained in place , and Iran has continued to enrich uranium to levels close to weapons-grade while refusing to fully cooperate with U.N . inspectors over its nuclear program . <p> But Iran so far has opted to stop short of building nuclear weapons , and may look for a diplomatic compromise with the United States and other powers as it tries to regroup , experts said . <p> " I think Iran will think twice before weaponizing and will maintain the nuclear card as a bargaining chip , and for now attempt compromises with its foreign opponents , " Vatanka said . 
@@118652329 <p> Marc Andreessen has been feeling pretty good since Election Day , and at the end of November , he went on The Joe Rogan Experience to say as much . Sitting in the podcast studio , grinning , Andreessen told Rogan that he was " very happy " about the election and that it is now " Morning in America " -- directly invoking the famous Ronald Reagan campaign ad . <p> Andreessen , a billionaire co-founder of the storied venture-capital firm Andreessen Horowitz ( also known as a16z ) , had put all his chips on Donald Trump . In July , on a podcast with his business partner , Ben Horowitz , Andreessen announced that he would be supporting the president-elect , and in total , he donated at least $4.5 million to a MAGA super PAC . Now , after publicly lobbying for deregulation in finance and tech , he 's poised to get his way . The Washington Post reported that he is helping Elon Musk and Vivek Ramaswamy plan the Department of Government Efficiency , Trump 's proposed advisory body with a mandate to downsize the government . The vision is already starting to materialize : On Rogan , Andreessen harshly criticized the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau , a consumer-protection agency created in response to the 2008 financial crisis . Musk later concurred in a post on X that it was time to " Delete CFPB . " <p> Andreessen has long been interested in politics , and he 's never been shy about sharing his opinions . ( Though he does seem to try to avoid encountering ideas he may not like : He 's a prolific blocker of journalists on X. ) Even so , his full embrace of Trump and right-wing talking points -- including the false claim that the government funded an " internet-censorship unit " at Stanford University -- represents a definite shift that has become common among America 's plutocrat class . In addition to Musk , Ramaswamy , and Andreessen , other elites are boldly clawing their way into more political power . Last week , Trump announced that he had tapped the former PayPal executive and venture capitalist David Sacks -- another prolific X user -- to be his " White House A.I. &amp; Crypto Czar . " <p> Consider also the billionaire hedge-fund manager Bill Ackman , who gained notoriety outside financial circles for driving an entire news cycle last winter with his aggressive social-media campaign against university presidents whom he saw as insufficiently cracking down on pro-Palestine campus protesters . ( He went particularly hard on then -- Harvard President Claudine Gay , elevating right-wing activists ' allegations of academic dishonesty against her . Gay admitted that she had duplicated " other scholars ' language , without proper attribution . " ) . Ackman has since used his public platform to exert pressure on politicians and administrators to scrap diversity , equity , and inclusion initiatives . In July , he formally endorsed Trump , and then spent the following months doubling down on MAGA talking points , including in an 1,800-word post on X that criticized alleged Democratic stances on fracking , protests , vaccines , and dozens of other issues , which received more than 9 million views ( " Very well said ! " Musk responded ) . In a CNBC interview , he talked about Trump 's commitment to economic growth and favorably cited Robert F. Kennedy Jr . ' s purported desire to tackle what Ackman described as " the 73-shot regime that we give our kids . " <p> Others in this orbit have demonstrated a willingness to take actions that would have previously crossed red lines . In October , the Los Angeles Times owner Patrick Soon-Shiong and the Washington Post owner Jeff Bezos killed their newspapers ' planned endorsements of Kamala Harris . ( Soon-Shiong said that Harris 's stance on the war in Gaza , along with a general sense that his paper 's opinion writers leaned too far to the left , motivated his decision , while Bezos wrotein an op-ed that his decision was an attempt to restore trust in the media that the public often perceives as biased . ) Meanwhile , Musk has loudly lobbied for his policy preferences and has also worked not just as an occasional adviser but as a de facto staff member of the Trump campaign . On X , which Musk purchased for $44 billion in 2022 , he repeatedly advocated for a Trump presidency to his more than 200 million followers and allowed far-right personalities and content to flourish -- as my colleague Charlie Warzel wrote , effectively turning the platform into a white-supremacist site . <p> Of course , the hyperwealthy have always found ways to bend the political system . In a 2014 study , the political scientists Martin Gilens and Benjamin I. Page reviewed thousands of polls and surveys spanning more than 20 years and found that the preferences of the wealthiest Americans were much more likely than those of average citizens to affect policy changes . But influence machines were once subterranean : Few people would have known about the political influence machine that the Koch brothers built in the past several decades if not for the workof investigative journalists . The hedge-fund billionaire George Soros has long bankrolled liberal nonprofits . In 2016 , Rupert Murdoch made it a point to say that he had " never asked any prime minister for anything , " after The Evening Standardreported that he had boasted about being able to tell the British government what to do : The media magnate wanted to at least partially conceal his influence . Until recently , elites and politicians who worked together feared the scandal of the sausage-making process being revealed , and the public backlash that could come with it . <p> The energy is different now . " There 's a real shift in ruling-class vibes , " Rob Larson , an economics professor who has written about the new ultrarich and Silicon Valley 's influence on politics , told me . Many of America 's plutocrats seem not to care if people know that they 're trying to manipulate the political system and the Fourth Estate in service of their own interests . Billionaires such as Andreessen and Ackman are openly broadcasting their political desires and " definitely feeling their animal spirits , " Larson said . Or , as the Northwestern University political-science professor Jeffrey Winters put it in a postelection interview with Slate , this feels like a moment of " in-your-face oligarchy . " <p> Part of the shift can be chalked up to the fact that many billionaires now come from tech , and Silicon Valley has a history of championing a unique kind of personality : " Brazenness has been a big piece of Silicon Valley entrepreneurship that 's been celebrated for a long time , " Becca Lewis , a researcher at Stanford who focuses on the politics of the technology industry , told me . " You 're supposed to be a disruptor or heterodox thinker . " For years , tech leaders may have thought of themselves as apolitical ( even as the industry employed plenty of lobbyists ) , but now the winds have shifted : Technology such as crypto has been politicized , and they have brought the braggadocio of the Valley to fight for it . <p> That the ultrarich are richer than they have ever been may also be part of the explanation , Larson said . Having more money means exposure to fewer consequences . The last time elites were this vocal in their influence , Larson said , was during the Gilded Age , when multimillionaires such as William Randolph Hearst and Jay Gould worked to shape American politics . <p> Regardless of its provenance , the practical impact of this behavior is a less equal system . Many people are worried about President-Elect Donald Trump 's forthcoming administration 's corrosive effects on democracy . The corrosion is already happening , though . A particularly vocal subset of the ultrarich is steering the ship , and does n't care who knows . 
@@118653727 <p> This story has been updated with comments from Jordan Acker , the university and Regent Sarah Hubbard . <p> HUNTINGTON WOODS , MI - The home of a Jewish member of the University of Michigan Board of Regents was attacked Sunday night , including spray-painted pro-Palestinian messages on his family car . <p> Regent Jordan Acker , also a Southfield-based attorney , confirmed his Huntington Woods home was targeted overnight on Dec. 8 . <p> Someone threw two mason jars filled with urine through one of his home 's windows , as well as spray-painted the slogan " Divest and Free Palestine " on his car , he told MLive/The Ann Arbor News . <p> Acker condemned the attack as anti-Semitic , called the protesters responsible for the vandalism " terrorists " and accused them of targeting him since he is " a public Jew . " <p> " To anyone out there who knows about who did this , and I 'm certain that there are people on our campus who do , you should prevent this from harming your own cause by speaking up about who 's doing this , " Acker said . " This is not helpful to Palestinians . It is simply intended to scare Jews , and it 's disgusting and disgraceful . " <p> Acker said he was home with his wife and children when the jars were thrown through one of his front windows . Huntington Woods Public Safety did not respond to a request for further details . <p> Images from Sunday night 's vandalism were shared by the University of Michigan and can be seen here . <p> " The vandalism of Regent Jordan Acker 's home early this morning is a clear act of antisemitic intimidation , " university officials said in a statement . " The University of Michigan condemns these criminal acts in the strongest possible terms . They are abhorrent and , unfortunately , just the latest in a number of incidents where individuals have been harassed because of their work on behalf of the university . This is unacceptable and will not be tolerated . We call on our community to come together in solidarity and to firmly reject all forms of bigotry and violence . " <p> This is the third time this year Acker was targeted by pro-Palestinian protesters . <p> A masked protester came to Acker 's home around 4:40 a.m. , May 16 to place demands on his door . Other regents ' homes that day saw fake corpses and bloody toys placed on lawns , alluding to the death of tens of thousands of Palestinians in the ongoing war in Gaza . <p> Protesters also spray-painted " UM kills " on the walls of his Goodman Acker Law Firm in June . The homes of university President Santa Ono and chief investment officer Erik Lundberg were also spray-painted at the time . <p> Acker demands that police , as well as progressive liberals on the Ann Arbor campus , take the repeated targeting of his family seriously . <p> " Every person on the progressive side should condemn this behavior , and it speaks volumes that several have not , " he said . <p> Regent Sarah Hubbard called for criminal action to be taken against those responsible for the vandalism . <p> " Vandalism , threats and intimidation of any sort are unacceptable and should be punished to the full extent of the law , " she wrote on X. " I urge law enforcement to pursue suspects in this and other similar cases targeting @umich leadership immediately . " <p> U.S. Rep. Haley Stevens , D-Rochester Hills , said she was " sickened by the anti-Semitic attack " on Acker 's home . <p> " Jordan Acker is a dedicated public servant and he and his family should be safe in their own home , " she wrote on X. " Vandalism , violence , and bigotry have no place in America . Enough . Our Jewish brothers and sisters deserve to live in security and peace . " <p> Protesters have criticized Acker and the other regents since the start of the Israel-Hamas War started last year . Tahrir Coalition , the student organization that seeks the university 's divestment from Israel due to the ongoing war in Gaza , has led numerous protests on campus and took credit for the May vandalism at regents ' homes . <p> The Israel-Hamas war has sparked protests around the world . It began when Hamas-led militants stormed into southern Israel on Oct. 7 , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and abducting around 250 people . Gaza 's Health Ministry says Israel 's offensive has killed more than 44,000 Palestinians in Gaza , according to the Associated Press . <p> If you would like more reporting like this delivered free to your inbox , click here and signup for our weekly newsletter : Michigan Schools . <p> If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site , we may receive compensation . By using this site , you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks , interactions , and personal information may be collected , recorded , and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy . 
@@118654931 <h> Israel 's offensive in Gaza has killed at least 44,758 people , mostly civilians , according to data from the Hamas-run health ministry <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said on Monday ( December 9 , 2024 ) he would not stop the war in Gaza " now " , with renewed efforts towards a ceasefire underway . <p> Speaking at a press conference in Jerusalem 14 months into the war against Hamas Palestinian militants , he said " if we end the war now , Hamas will return , recover , rebuild and attack us again -- and that is what we do not want to go back to " . <p> Mr. Netanyahu reiterated that he had set the goal of " the annihilation of Hamas , the elimination of its military and administrative capabilities " to prevent future attacks but said that the objective was not yet complete . <p> US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said on October 23 that Israel had " managed to dismantle Hamas 's military capacity " and eliminated its senior leadership . With those successes , he said , it was time to " get the hostages home and bring the war to an end with an understanding of what will follow . " <p> In recent days , there had been signs that months of failed ceasefire and hostage release negotiations might be revived and achieve a breakthrough . <p> Qatar , a main mediator , said on Saturday there was new " momentum " for negotiations created by the election of Donald Trump in the United States . <h> Comments <p> Comments have to be in English , and in full sentences . They can not be abusive or personal . Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments . <p> We have migrated to a new commenting platform . If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in , you may continue to engage with our articles . If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments . Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle. 
@@118665429 <p> It was Hamas ' first public comment since rebel forces swept into the Syrian capital Damascus on Sunday after a lightning advance that sent Assad fleeing to Russia after a 13-year civil war and six decades of his family 's autocratic rule . <p> " We stand strongly with the great people of Syria ... and respect the will , the independence , and the political choices of the people of Syria , " the Islamist faction that has been governing the Gaza Strip said in a statement . <p> Hamas said it hoped that post-Assad Syria would continue " its historical and pivotal role in supporting the Palestinian people . " <p> In a separate statement , Ziad al-Nakhala , head of the Islamic Jihad , an Iranian-backed group and an ally of Hamas , echoed that sentiment . Rebel factions successfully seized control of the city of Aleppo , Syria , on November 30 , 2024 , after intense clashes and fierce battles with Assad regime forces . ( credit : Rami Alsayed/NurPhoto via Getty Images ) <p> " The Islamic Jihad hopes Syria will remain a real support for the Palestinian people , their just cause , as it has always been , " said Nakhala . <p> Hamas publicly endorsed the 2011 Sunni Muslim street uprising against Assad 's rule and vacated its Damascus headquarters in 2012 , a move that angered Iran , an ally of both Assad and the Palestinian group . <p> Hamas , whose ideological roots stem from the Sunni Islamist Muslim Brotherhood , distanced itself from Assad - a member of the minority Alawite sect , an offshoot of Shi'ite Islam - as he cracked down on the mainly Sunni Muslim protesters and rebels . <h> Palestinian-Syrian ties <p> The Palestinian group decided in 2022 to restore ties with the Assad government and sent a delegation to Damascus , where Hamas leaders met Assad in the hope of repairing relations . <p> Assad 's Syria and Iran formed an " axis of resistance " with Lebanon 's Hezbollah movement and Palestinian militant groups to oppose Israel . <p> Hamas 's positive response to the fall of Assad contrasted with that of Shi'ite Muslim Hezbollah , which played a major part propping up Assad through years of war . Assad 's Syria long served as a vital conduit for Iran to supply arms to the group . <p> A senior Hezbollah politician on Monday described events in Syria as a " major , dangerous and new transformation . " 
@@118665434 <h> Over the last two academic years , 81% of university-related incidents were categorized as abusive behavior , totaling 264 incidents <p> TENTS ARE pitched outside the Oxford University Museum of Natural History , as students occupy parts of British campuses in support of Palestinians in Gaza , this week . Supporters of genocidal jihadist groups are spreading mayhem across the Western world , says the writer . ( photo credit : HOLLIE ADAMS/REUTERS ) <p> In the last two academic years , there have been 325 academic incidents in British universities , according to the new Community Security Trust report on campus Jew-hatred , released on Monday . <p> This equates to 53 incidents in the 2022/3 academic year , and 272 in 2023/4 . The latter total is the highest recorded by CST for a single academic year , which CST attributes to the wave of anti-Jewish hatred following the 7 October Hamas terror attack . <p> CST classified an antisemitic incident as " any criminal offense which is perceived by the victim or any other person to be motivated by a hostility or prejudice based on a person 's religion or perceived religion . " A university antisemitic incident is considered as such if it relates to a student , staff or academic at a UK university , both on-campus incidents and off-campus . <p> Over the last two academic years , 81% of university-related incidents were categorized as abusive behavior , totaling 264 incidents . This includes all forms of verbal and written antisemitism both online and offline . 24 of the incidents were perpetrated by staff . Map of antisemitic incidents at British Universities , following a CST report on the academic years of 2022/3 and 2023/4 ( credit : CST ) <p> There were also ten reported incidents of assault across the two years . One took place in Leeds in 2022/3 , and the other nine in 2023/4 ( two in Cambridge , and one each in Belfast , St Andrews , Exeter , Birmingham , Middlesex , Wandsworth and Hertfordshire . ) <p> In St Andrews , eggs were thrown at a group of visibly Jewish students . <h> Threats and desecration <p> There were 23 incidents of threats , including death threats and bomb threats . For example , in April 2024 , a university Jewish Society received a bomb threat via email , saying : " I placed multiple explosives inside of the Synagogues . The explosives are well hidden and they will go off in the morning . Everyone inside will die in a pool of blood . " <p> It is worth noting that none of the university-related incidents recorded by CST were in the category of extreme violence . <p> Nevertheless , students repeatedly reported concerns to CST about the extreme rhetoric on campuses , expressed by both students and staff , legitimising or glorifying terrorist violence and/or proscribed terror groups . 
@@118665437 <h> Sydney Jew detained for waving Israeli flag at anti-Israel protest <p> MEMBERS OF the Palestine Action Group gather in Sydney , in May . ' Pro-Palestine ' demonstrators are no longer able to make a moral distinction between justice and injustice , the writer says. ( photo credit : Alasdair Pal/Reuters ) <p> Ofir Birenbaum and his wife had arrived at the Sydney Great Synagogue on Wednesday to attend the Technion 100 Years Grand Event and , before entering , waved an Israeli flag at the Stop the War on Palestine protest across the street . <p> Birenbaum was not only met with cries from anti-Israel protesters calling him a " murderer " but was immediately approached by a visibly angry police commander who castigated the Jewish community member for antagonizing the demonstrators . <p> " You 're just antagonizing them ; there is no need to be here , " said the officer in a video recorded by Birenbaum . " You 're just coming here to cause drama . " <p> Birenbaum was ushered away from the synagogue , detained for breaching the peace , and not allowed to return to the street . Birenbaum demanded to know why the protest was not a breach of the peace , to which the officers said that the activists had permission to hold a rally . <p> Jew detained outside Sydney 's Great Synagogue for having Israeli flagA Sydney Jew and friend of AJA , Ofir Birenbaum was detained by police for having an Israeli flag as he was on his way to attend a Jewish event at Sydney 's Great Synagogue.Police said he was being detained ... **26;5957;TOOLONG <h> Hate festival monitored by police <p> The New South Wales Police confirmed in a statement that the anti-Israel protest was , in fact , not authorized . <p> " The police treated this entire incident as if we crashed into their event , " said Birenbaum . " I would never go to their pro-Hamas weekly hate festival and wave an Israeli flag . This was a Jewish and Israeli event which they crashed , unauthorized , and waved their flags . <p> " One must wonder how come the first protester in front of a synagogue was n't detained for breaching the peace . I guess it 's ok to upset Jews , but not hate-filled ' resistance ' supporters . " <p> Birenbaum said the result of " keeping the peace " meant that Jews were heckled while in synagogue and had to take security precautions like hiding Jewish symbols while leaving the event . <p> NSW Police and Birenbaum that a second man , aged 50 , had also flown an Israeli flag across from the anti-Israel protest . The second man did not comply with police demands to move and was issued an infringement notice . <p> The protest by Stop the War on Palestine gathered around 70 people , according to law enforcement . <p> Protesters called for Australian universities to cut all ties with Technion and for the government to place sanctions on Israel . The activists argued that the Technion has been involved in developing technologies used by the Israeli military and is thereby complicit in a supposed Gaza genocide . <p> " Holding this event in the synagogue is an attempt to present Technion 's anniversary as a Jewish event . It 's not , " Stop the War on Palestine activist Adam Adelpout said . " Our protest is directed at Technion 's complicity with the Israeli state perpetrating starvation and a genocide in Gaza that has been condemned by the international court . " <p> The activists also took issue with the guest speakers at the event , which featured a Technion student sharing his experiences as a reservist and writer , David Weinberg , whom they described as an " Israeli war-hawk . " <p> The Technion event was held , according to the event website , to commemorate 100 years of Technion as a " global leader in scientific innovation and education . " 
@@118665439 <h> According to the report , the list includes four hostages who hold American citizenship . <p> Hamas has reportedly presented Egyptian mediators an initial list with the names of the hostages who would be included in a possible hostage deal , according to the London-based Qatari newspaper Al-Araby Al-Jadeed on Monday , citing a source familiar with the subject . <p> According to the report , the list included four hostages who hold American citizenship , in addition to hostages who are elderly and who suffer from medical conditions . <p> Hamas also reportedly submitted a list with the names of Palestinian prisoners . <p> On Sunday , a Hamas delegation headed by senior Hamas official Khalil al-Hayya visited Cairo for hostage deal negotiations , which the report claimed have reached an " advanced stage . " <h> Israeli negotiating team reportedly set to travel to Cairo <p> Al-Araby Al-Jadeed further claimed that an Israeli delegation was set to head to the Egyptian capital on Monday for further discussions . Illustrative image of Hamas terrorists . ( credit : Canva , MAHMUD HAMS/AFP via Getty Images , YONATAN SINDEL/FLASH 90 ) <p> On Saturday , the Saudi-owned news outlet Asharq Al-Awsat reported that Hamas was attempting to determine the number of living Israeli hostages it and other terrorist groups in the Gaza Strip were holding . 
@@118698521 <h> What is Iran signalling since the fall of Syria 's Bashar al-Assad ? <p> A stalwart Assad ally for decades , Iran has to decide how it will approach the new Syria . <p> Bashar al-Assad 's personal souvenirs shown in one of the rooms at the Qasr al-Shaab ' People 's Palace ' , after rebels seized the capital and ousted al-Assad , in Damascus , Syria on December 10 , 2024 Amr Abdallah Dalsh/Reuters <p> Tehran , Iran -- Iran says it wants to maintain relations with Syria after the fall of major ally Bashar al-Assad , but that opposition groups ' approach towards Israel would be crucial . <p> Tehran has not commented on reports that it has established a direct line of dialogue with the armed groups that toppled Syria 's ruling family , which was allied with Iran for more than 40 years . <p> On Tuesday , government spokesperson Fatemeh Mohajerani called for " respect for Syria 's territorial integrity " and said the Syrian people should decide their own fate . <p> Concerning Iran 's future relations with Syria , she said , " their distance from the Zionist regime " would be an important deciding factor . <h> ' National interests ' <p> Hossein Salami , the commander-in-chief of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps ( IRGC ) , told lawmakers during a closed-door meeting in the parliament on Tuesday that no Iranian forces currently remain in Syria . <p> Arguing that this withdrawal did not mean Tehran 's power had been diminished , the general said Iranian forces were present in Syria until the last moments of al-Assad 's government , according to lawmakers present . <p> Advertisement <p> Iran had supported al-Assad since Syria 's war erupted in 2011 , providing him with fighters , weapons and military advice in the form of an IRGC presence that aimed to keep al-Assad in power as well as maintain Tehran 's regional " axis of resistance " to Israel and the US . <p> Government spokesperson Mohajerani said 4,000 Iranian citizens had returned home from Syria on board 10 flights organised by heavily sanctioned Iranian airline Mahan , since al-Assad 's overthrow . <p> Asked about the massive investment Iran made in propping up al-Assad and how that financial loss would affect the Iranian people , she insisted that the tens of billions of dollars Tehran spent were to support " national interests " . <h> ' Stop the crimes against Syria ' <p> Before al-Assad fled , Iran 's Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi repeatedly called the opposition offensive -- led by opposition armed group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) -- an " American-Zionist ploy " aiming to further destabilise the region amid the fallout of the Israeli war on Gaza . <p> After the opposition groups toppled the regime , the Iranian Foreign Ministry has instead focused its rhetoric on condemning Israel , saying it is " taking advantage of the complicated situation in Syria to exacerbate its genocide in Gaza " . <p> Iran 's statements came as Israel bombed Syrian infrastructure hundreds of times since Sunday , hitting at least 250 targets across Syria overnight on Monday alone in what Israeli media said was the biggest attack operation ever carried out by its air force . <p> Advertisement <p> Israel destroyed fighter jets and army helicopters in their air bases , targeted military research centres and weapons depots , and attacked Syrian army ships . <p> Israeli soldiers and tanks have also taken advantage of the political chaos in Syria to push deep inside the country , reaching as close as 20km ( 12 miles ) to the capital , Damascus . <p> Iran , which backed al-Assad until the last moment , said in a statement Monday night that it would " use all its regional and international capacities to stop the crimes of the Zionist regime against Syria " , without elaborating . <h> Iranian missions damaged <p> Iran on Tuesday also wrote a letter to the UN Security Council to express grave concern and condemnation of attacks on its embassy in Syria on Sunday after the fall of al-Assad . <p> It said that on November 29 , " armed groups targeted the Iranian consulate in Aleppo with short-range shells , endangering consular staff " . The consulate was subsequently " invaded and damaged " after the mission had to be evacuated . <p> Iran stopped short of officially blaming the HTS or any other specific group for the actions . <p> Advertisement <p> After footage appeared online showing the embassy trashed and large images of assassinated leaders Qassem Soleimani and Hassan Nasrallah taken down , Iran 's Araghchi said it appeared some civilians were also involved . <p> It is unclear if , or when , the Iranian diplomatic missions will be reopened . 
@@118698524 <h> At least 13 Palestinians killed in Israeli attacks on Gaza <p> The attack comes hours after 20 people from the same displaced family were killed in northern Gaza . <p> Video Duration 04 minutes 49 seconds 04:49 <p> Heavy attacks on Kamal Adwan Hospital in Gaza <p> Published On 10 Dec 202410 Dec 2024 <p> <p> Updated : <p> 4 hours ago <p> At least 13 people have been killed in Israeli attacks -- seven in central Gaza and six in its southern region -- as Israel continues its assault on the besieged Palestinian territory . <p> At least seven people were killed and many wounded by an Israeli air attack on a house in central Gaza 's Nuseirat camp early on Tuesday , according to medics . <p> The house was targeted on Tuesday morning , the Palestinian Civil Defence said in a statement , adding that its teams recovered seven bodies and rescued a number of wounded people from the site of the attack . <p> Anadolu Agency quoted a medical source at al-Awda Hospital as saying that the victims included a woman and three children . <p> The report added that the Israeli strikes severely damaged surrounding buildings as well . <p> The Quds News Network reported that Palestinian footballer Mohamed Khalifa was among the victims of the attack . <p> Separately , in southern Gaza , at least six people were killed in Israeli attacks in the Rafah governorate , the official Palestinian news agency Wafa reported . <p> Advertisement <p> Three civilians were killed in a drone strike north of Rafah city and two others were killed in another drone attack in the Shakoush area northwest of Rafah , Wafa reported , citing local sources . One person was killed in an Israeli attack on Khirbet al-Adas in the north of Rafah governorate , the news agency said . <p> On Monday night , one Palestinian was killed and many were wounded by an Israeli air strike that targeted the home of the Meqdad family in the Sheikh Radwan neighbourhood , north of Gaza City . <p> In addition , nearly two dozen people were killed on Monday evening in an attack on a building sheltering displaced people in northern Gaza . <p> " Twenty people from one displaced family from Beit Lahiya and Jabalia , who were making their way to Beit Hanoon city , were killed , " said Al Jazeera 's Hani Mahmoud , reporting from Deir el-Balah . <p> " That includes men , women , children , as well as elderly Palestinians . " <p> Footage shared on social media and verified by Al Jazeera shows residents on Tuesday collecting the bodies and lining them up on the street . <p> Israel 's war on Gaza has killed at least 44,758 Palestinians and wounded 105,834 since October 7 , 2023 . <h> Netanyahu promises to continue war on Gaza <p> Advertisement <p> Meanwhile , Israel 's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said he would not stop the war in Gaza " now " , despite reports of renewed efforts towards talks on a ceasefire . <p> Speaking at a news conference in Jerusalem , Netanyahu said " If we end the war now , Hamas will return , recover , rebuild and attack us again . " <p> Last month , the International Criminal Court issued arrest warrants for Netanyahu and former Israeli Defence Minister Yoav Gallant for war crimes and crimes against humanity in Gaza . <p> On Tuesday , Netanyahu was at a court in Tel Aviv to take the stand for the first time in a long-running corruption trial , adding to his legal woes . <p> Charged with bribery , fraud and breach of trust , Netanyahu will testify three times a week during the trial , the court said . <p> Netanyahu was indicted in 2019 in three cases involving gifts from millionaire friends and for allegedly seeking regulatory favours for media tycoons in return for favourable coverage . <p> A few dozen protesters gathered outside the court building , some of them supporters and others demanding that the prime minister do more to negotiate the release of some 100 captives still held by Hamas in Gaza . 
@@118698739 <p> Investigators have found that a high-ranking Chicago police official should be suspended in two separate disciplinary cases -- one focusing on inflammatory comments he made about Palestinians ' treatment of gay people and another hinging on the improper disclosure of juvenile criminal records to a top mayoral aide . <p> In each case , the Chicago Police Department 's Bureau of Internal Affairs has recommended that Area 1 Deputy Chief Don Jerome should be suspended for 28 days . <p> Meanwhile , Jerome has remained on active duty in a highly visible position as police officials determine his fate . " The disciplinary process is being finalized , " said a police spokesperson , who declined further comment . <p> The first disciplinary case centers on a March 21 incident at City Hall , where Jerome " disseminated a list containing juvenile records " to one of the city 's deputy mayors , according to a summary report of the probe . <p> Internal investigators found that he violated rules that bar cops from improperly handling or releasing records , disobeying an order or directive , and discrediting the department . <p> Months later -- as scores of demonstrators gathered to protest the war in Gaza during the Democratic National Convention -- a Palestinian American sergeant accused Jerome of making a series of offensive statements about the ongoing conflict and the treatment of gay people in the Middle East . <p> In a complaint , the sergeant described Jerome 's comments as " offensive , misogynistic , homophobic , and racist , " adding that he feared retaliation . <p> Jerome , the sergeant and more than a dozen other officials had gathered Aug. 20 at the Deering District police station , where Jerome began joking about an earlier protest that brought together advocates for LGBTQ+ and Palestinian rights , according to the complaint . <p> " If those LGBTQ protesters were in Palestine , those Muslims would behead them for being gay , " Jerome said . <p> Investigators determined Jerome " made an offensive derogatory statement regarding LGBTQ protesters , " according to a summary report . The investigation found he was disrespectful , failed to promote the department 's policies or goals , discredited the department and violated a law or ordinance . <p> An allegation that Jerome threatened retaliation by allegedly saying " I will remember your name " was n't sustained . Neither was an allegation that Jerome harassed the sergeant by pointing at the sergeant and repeatedly asking , " Who beheads gay people ? " <p> The sergeant 's attorney , former CPD General Counsel Thomas Needham , said his client " is appreciative of the prompt attention and swift conclusion to his complaint , " adding that Jerome 's " rhetoric and behavior contradicts the values and mission of the Chicago Police Department and further erodes public trust . <p> " Deputy Chief Jerome remains in his current position which involves frequently addressing the media and continues to oversee hundreds of officers of all races , ethnic groups , and religions under his command serving Chicago 's diverse communities , " Needham added . " Hopefully Supt. Larry Snelling will take the appropriate measures to resolve and finalize the matter satisfactorily . <p> " There can not be a different standard for the command staff than there is for the rest of the officers in the Department , " he said , noting that Snelling and Mayor Johnson " should take a hard look at whether deputy chief Jerome deserves the public 's trust to continue to hold his current position . " <p> Jerome previously faced an unsustained complaint related to a pro-Palestinian protest in January in which he allegedly damaged someone 's camera . Ahmed Rehab , executive director of the Chicago chapter of the Council on American-Islamic Relations , insisted that Jerome 's background includes " anti-Muslim , anti-Palestinian animus . " <p> " Unless he recants and apologizes , or is disciplined , our communities will not feel safe with him wielding police authority , " Rehab told the Sun-Times . <p> Jerome has faced dozens of complaints since joining the police department in 1994 , a handful of which were sustained , according to a database maintained by the Invisible Institute , an independent newsroom focused on police accountability . <p> Most notably , Jerome was suspended for 28 days for his role in the cover-up of then-Supt . Eddie Johnson 's drunken driving incident in 2019 . At the time , Jerome was the commander of the Deering District , where the top cop was found slumped over in his police SUV after dismissing his driver and trying to drive home . <p> Responding officers failed to administer a sobriety test , giving Eddie Johnson a police escort home while watching him violate traffic laws . He was ultimately fired amid the scandal . <p> Besides the designs chosen from a state competition as finalists , you 'll also be able to vote starting in January on whether to just keep the current state flag instead or to revert to one of two past versions : the 1918 Centennial Flag or the 1968 Sesquicentennial Flag . Legislators will make the final call next year . <p> CHSN has yet to appear on Comcast , the largest cable provider in the market , and Marquee continues to operate under short-term extensions while trying to stave off being moved to the distributor 's highest-priced tier . <p> Nikki Giovanni was called " the princess of Black poetry . " She spent decades as a literary celebrity , writing books for children and adults and sharing blunt and conversational takes on everything from racism and love to space travel and mortality . 
@@118698831 <p> As Syrians celebrated across Damascus and elsewhere in the country , other powers in the region took action . Citing a supposed threat from anti-Israel militant groups in a country now undergoing a massive political upheaval , Israeli troops occupied five villages across the Golan Heights , an area in Syria 's southwest . It also struck countless other targets across the country . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> The move was immediately denounced as a violation of international law . The backlash cued up an inevitable response from the Biden administration , which for all intents and purposes has been relegated to the role of a public relations firm smoothing over caustic rhetoric and actions from Israeli hardliners , including those in the government . <p> " The Syrian army abandoned its positions in the area around the negotiated Israeli-Syrian buffer zone , which potentially creates a vacuum that could have been filled by terrorist organizations that would threaten the state of Israel , would threaten civilians inside Israel , " said State Department spokesman Matt Miller on Monday , though he did n't give any evidence of those groups having attempted to move in . <p> He 'd go on to say that " this is a temporary action that they have taken in response to actions by the Syrian military to withdraw from that area , " while adding that the Biden administration , which has a little more than a month left in office , would be " watching what steps Israel takes in the coming weeks " . <p> Miller 's promise appears to have been even more short-lived than others the Biden administration has been forced to break over the past year -- like its vow to take action after 30 days if Israel did not meaningfully improve the humanitarian situation in Gaza , which Oxfam and other aid groups say it has n't . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Even before the end of the business day in Washington , a starkly different message had been issued from a Twitter account operated by Benjamin Netanyahu 's office : " The importance of this historic recognition has been underscored today . The Golan Heights will be an inseparable part of the State of Israel forever . " <p> As Netanyahu made his pronouncement , other Israelis celebrated the apparent land grab openly on social media . <p> But the timing of Netanyahu 's statement could n't have been clearer -- a direct rebuke to the diplomatic arm of the Biden administration , which has long been out of step with the right-wing Israeli government . The White House and Biden-Harris campaign , as part of failed efforts to appeal to moderates , sought to portray the administration as a relentless supporter of Israel all while begging their younger base not to abandon the party over Israel 's siege of Gaza . Neither strategy worked , in particular because the Israeli government has been consistently willing to publicly reject the promises and white-washed statements of concern for Palestinian lives uttered by Biden 's talking heads , as well as the president himself . <p> For months , the Israeli government denied that it would consider the possibility of allowing the establishment of a sovereign Palestinian state , something the Biden White House has said is a necessary part of a lasting peace process . Now , it rejects the prospect of even staying within its own territory . <p> By Tuesday 's briefing , the tone had changed at the State Department : " I will let Israel speak to what it hopes to accomplish . I can say , on behalf of the United States , we 're going to discuss this with them privately before I opine publicly , " Miller said at Tuesday 's briefing . <p> The agency spokesman was grilled in response by Al-Quds News Service reporter Said Arikat , who questioned whether allowing Israel 's military to " conquer " the Golan was a " private matter " , using Miller 's verbiage . <p> Miller would parry the question by stressing the need to " ascertain what they ( Israel ) are doing " before commenting on the matter -- a difficult prospect given that he had defended the Israeli military 's claim that the occupation was " temporary " just a day earlier , before the admission from the prime minister 's office that it may very well be permanent . <p> If the meetings between top Israeli officials and President-elect Trump were n't enough to convince us , this latest development makes it obvious . Joe Biden is no longer in charge of the situation -- whether he likes it or not , apparently . US-Israel policy appears to now be fully running through Mar-a-Lago as the State Department plays catch-up and prepares for a Trump takeover . <p> When January 20 comes around , it may cap off the end of the lamest " lame duck " presidency in modern times . 
@@118710028 <p> Dozens of Jewish medical professionals participated in a MedEx event in Los Angeles that aims to integrate more doctors into the Israeli workforce , Nefesh B'Nefesh announced in a statement on Monday . <p> The joint initiative between the Ministry of Aliyah and Integration , the Ministry of Health , Nefesh B'Nefesh , and The Jewish Agency for Israel aims to recruit 2,000 Jewish doctors to Israel in the next five years , according to Nefesh B'Nefesh . Sign up for our newsletter to learn more &gt;&gt; <p> Healthcare representatives from organizations and companies such as Ichilov , Hadassah , Clalit , and the Northern Medical Center conducted real-time job interviews at the event , the statement said . Attendees met with representatives from the Israeli Ministry of Health and Medical Directorate to discuss licensing , job opportunities , and relocation grants . <p> Aliyah and Integration Minister Ofir Sofer said this joint effort will strengthen the Israeli healthcare system with a focus on the Negev and Galilee . <p> " The MedEx events provide an important platform to encourage doctors to make Aliyah , while offering assistance to navigate the process , " Sofer said . " It is heartwarming to see the significant interest from doctors in particular , and by Jews in general , to make aliyah during this time of war . This is a profound expression of Zionism and a demonstration of solidarity with the citizens of Israel . " DOCTORS LOOKING to make aliyah attend the London MedEx exposition last month . ( credit : SHAHAR AZRAN ) <h> " Aliyah is a growth machine " <p> Maj.-Gen. ( ret . ) Doron Almog , the chairman of the Jewish Agency , said he welcomed the initiative and hopes it will lead to many Jews making aliyah . <p> " Aliyah is a growth engine , and the integration of more Jews into the actions and endeavors of the State of Israel , in medicine and other fields , is an essential part of its rebuilding and development , " Almog said . <p> An emphasis was placed on employment in cities in Israel 's periphery because of new grant programs from the Ministry of the Negev , Galilee and National Resilience , and the government administration in the Gaza border areas , according to the press statement . <p> " Our MedEx events reflect our shared commitment to addressing Israel 's healthcare needs while empowering Jewish medical professionals in their Aliyah journeys , " said Tony Gelbart , the co-founder and chairman of Nefesh B'Nefesh . " These medical professionals are embarking on a transformative path that will enrich their lives and strengthen Israel 's healthcare system . And as such , we are committed to ensuring that their Aliyah and integration processes are as smooth and successful as possible . " <p> Sunday 's event was part of MedEx 's newly founded International Medical Aliyah Program ( IMAP ) . <p> Key partners include the Ministry of the Negev , Galilee , and National Resilience , the Marcus Foundation , the Gottesman Foundation , and the Jewish Federation of North America . <p> Similar events were previously held in cities such as London , Paris , and Buenos Aires . Notably , the Sunday Los Angeles event marked the first time the MedEx fair was brought to a West Coast US city . Nefesh B'Nefesh held an aliyah fair alongside the medical professionals event . 
@@118741220 <p> Indeed , " it 's just terrible luck " those policies keep on " generating a spike in violent and property crime ! " <p> " The most famous and infamous " such DAs is Manhattan 's Alvin Bragg , whose " Javert-like pursuit of Trump over old business filings while the city suffered from a post-pandemic crime surge added to the perception that the Democrats obsessed over anything and everything Trump did while ignoring serious and worsening problems in the lives of the ordinary citizenry . " <p> Bragg " won the biggest case of his career . And all it cost him was everything else . " <p> US intelligence believes the Iran-backed " Houthi rebels established a weapons agreement with al-Shabaab , " providing " access to a new source of weapons -- including drones and possibly ballistic missiles . " <p> " Al-Shabaab would be a dangerous and capable proxy for Iran " requiring Team Trump to " exercise maximum pressure " and vigilance " against Tehran 's machinations in the Horn of Africa . " <h> Conservative : Antisemites &amp; Facts at Oxford <p> " News reports have made clear " that the recent Oxford Union 's debate on Israel and genocide " descended into madness " as the pro-Israel " team could n't even get through their statements without obscene screeching from the audience , " observes Commentary 's Seth Mandel . <p> Worse , a video released by debater Jonathan Sacerdoti shows " that the parts that drove the crowd to the brink of insanity were merely Sacerdoti 's reciting of statistics -- i.e. , facts . " <p> " Eight minutes in , Sacerdoti notes , in objection to the idea that Israel is purposely starving Gazans : ' Israel has provided 700,000 tons of food to Gaza during this war . That is a daily average of 3,200 calories per person . ' To which a woman in the audience yelled : ' You sick motherf -- ker ! ' ? " <p> " You do n't get to hear that response " on the Union 's video , as " the sound is cut out for 110 seconds , the length of time it takes the presiding official to regain order . " <p> " As the censorship industrial complex expands , the fight to defend free speech must rise to meet it on a global scale . " <h> Libertarian : Murder Fans ' Health-Care Fantasies <p> Supporters of UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson 's assassin are " dreaming " if they think " insurance executives like Thompson are all that stands between them and their visions of a single-payer medical system that satisfies every desire , " chides Reason 's J.D. Tuccille . <p> While leftists ' want medical " bills paid by the government , " the truth is that " third-party payers -- whether governments or insurance companies -- do enormous damage to the provision of health care , " as they leave consumers with no incentive to control costs . <p> And " concerns about rising costs , demand , and finite resources apply just as much when the payer is the government . " <p> Canada 's " single-payer system famously relies heavily on long wait times to ration care . " <p> Bottom line : Getting " government and other third-parties " out of the process is the best route to lower health-care costs . 
@@118741222 <h> Breaking News <p> The photo exhibit " Gaza , Palestine : A Crisis of Humanity , a Cry for Justice " in the lobby of United Nations headquarters in Manhattan includes images of demolished buildings , displaced civilians , maimed children and corpses . It mentions neither Hamas nor the terror group 's Oct. 7 terrorist attacks in southern Israel that launched the war upon which the exhibit focuses . <p> " This was written by the Palestinian mission to the United Nations and in this long , long text , you wo n't find the word ' Hamas ' in it , " Jonathan Harounoff , international spokesman for Israel 's mission to the global body , told JNS . " You wo n't find any mention of the perpetrators of the attacks of Oct. 7 , 2023 . " <p> " It 's very selective in the history it is trying to portray , and the exhibit includes graphic imagery of everything that took place following Oct. 7 , but they never mention what actually happened to lead to all of this , " Harounoff said . <p> The photo exhibit " Gaza , Palestine : A Crisis of Humanity , a Cry for Justice " in the lobby of United Nations headquarters in Manhattan includes images of demolished buildings , displaced civilians , maimed children and corpses . United Nations <p> Harounoff told JNS that the Jewish state is n't engaged in the war " to bring suffering upon the people of Gaza . " <p> " That 's not its objective . Its objective is to prevent terrorist organizations like Hamas from terrorizing its people which it did when it infiltrated Israel on Oct. 7 , " he said . <p> Harounoff pointed to a photograph by Yasser Qudih -- whose presence during the Oct. 7 attacks has raised ethical questions -- which depicts children holding empty bowls , hoping in vain for food , near Rafah . " It did not take long for the food to run out , " a caption states . <p> " Pictures like this in this exhibit , showcasing children who are starving and desperate for food , fail to mention that the reason the photographed children have no food is because Hamas terrorists continually loot aid in Gaza instead of feeding their own people , " Harounoff said . <p> The Israeli spokesman told JNS that other exhibits in the U.N . lobby tend to have highly visible signs with disclaimers stating that the United Nations does not necessarily share the views articulated in the exhibitions . <h> ' Does not paint a full picture ' <p> The Gaza photo exhibit , which is on view until Jan. 10 and is organized by the Palestinian " permanent observer " mission to the global body , has no such sign . <p> " This was written by the Palestinian mission to the United Nations and in this long , long text , you wo n't find the word ' Hamas ' in it , " Jonathan Harounoff said . United Nations <p> Harounoff showed JNS another exhibit in the U.N . lobby about the Palestinian Red Crescent . <p> " The content of this exhibit is solely the responsibility of the sponsor . The holding of the exhibit on the U.N . premises does not imply endorsement or acceptance of its content by the United Nations " the sign states . " The designations employed and the presentation of material on these displays do not imply the expression of any opinion on the part of the secretariat or the United Nations . Please direct any queries to the organizers . " <p> The Gaza exhibit " has only a very small footnote saying the U.N . does n't necessarily share the viewpoints of the exhibit organizer , " Harounoff said . " But when the Israeli mission held an exhibit featuring Israeli mothers speaking about the loss of their children due to the war , we were told that by protocol we had to have a large sign letting the public know this exhibit reflected our mission 's views alone . " <p> That double standard suggests that the United Nations endorses the messaging behind the Gaza exhibit , according to Harounoff . <p> " This exhibit does not paint a full picture here . We do n't see mention of what happened on Oct. 7 , we only see what took place from a very biased angle , " he said . " So the concern is , does having no disclaimer mean that this is an endorsement by the United Nations ? " <p> " If there was a sign here then there would be transparency , where I could infer as a visitor that this is not condoned by the United Nations , " he added . " By not having a sign , you 're creating a sort of opaque system , where anyone passing by can assume that this has been endorsed by or even curated by the United Nations , and that is not necessarily the case . " <p> JNS sought comment from the United Nations . Farhan Haq , deputy spokesman for Ant ? nio Guterres , the U.N . secretary-general , told JNS that there are differences between exhibitions at the United Nations , and some have larger disclaimers while others do not . <p> " Some shows have it one way , some in the other . It depends on the sponsors of the exhibits , " Haq told JNS . <p> Danny Danon , the Israeli ambassador to the United Nations , stated that the Gaza exhibit represents " diplomatic terrorism . " <p> " This week , a one-sided pro-Palestinian exhibition that is detached from reality opened at the main entrance to the U.N. , " he said . " When will the U.N . stop spending millions of dollars on spreading lies and instead pass a moral resolution that condemns Hamas and calls for the release of our hostages ? Disgraceful . " <h> Video <p> The photo exhibit " Gaza , Palestine : A Crisis of Humanity , a Cry for Justice " in the lobby of United Nations headquarters in Manhattan includes images of demolished buildings , displaced civilians , maimed children and corpses . United Nations <p> " This was written by the Palestinian mission to the United Nations and in this long , long text , you wo n't find the word ' Hamas ' in it , " Jonathan Harounoff said . United Nations 
@@118743229 <p> Deir el-Balah and Khan Younis , Gaza , Palestine -- Ghada al-Kafarna stood in line outside the community kitchen in central Gaza as she does every day . It was 11am and the mother of 10 had been there for the past two hours . <p> " For me , securing food and bread is a constant battle , " the 41-year-old explained as hundreds of children , women and men jostled around her . <p> Ghada has no source of income and her husband suffers from a chronic illness that prevented him from working even before the war . <p> Now the family , which was displaced from their home in Beit Hanoon in the north , lives in an UNRWA school turned shelter in Deir el-Balah and relies on tekkiyyat , community or charity kitchens distributing free meals . <p> " When the tekkiyyat stop , I have no choice but to beg neighbours for food , " she said . <p> Ghada is exhausted . <p> " My children have n't eaten anything today . For the past four days , the charity kitchens have been closed because of the difficult situation , and my children have gone to bed hungry every night , " she explained tearfully . <p> " I ask people around me and beg them every day for help . " <h> ' My children have n't eaten anything today ' <p> -Ghada al-Kafarna <p> Ghada al-Kafarna waits at a community kitchen in Deir el-Balah to receive a meal of lentils for her children Abdelhakim Abu Raish/Al Jazeera <p> Ghada al-Kafarna waits at a community kitchen in Deir el-Balah to receive a meal of lentils for her children Abdelhakim Abu Raish/Al Jazeera <p> But most people are in the same position as Ghada and are unable to offer her family any assistance . <p> In October 2023 , when Israel began its war on Gaza , it announced a " total " blockade on essential supplies to the Strip . In the more than 14 months since , Israel has restricted 83 percent of the food aid entering Gaza , according to the United Nations . <p> International aid organisations and charities have repeatedly warned of crisis levels of hunger affecting the more than 2 million people in Gaza while Israel has been accused of using starvation as a weapon of war . <p> On December 1 , the UN agency for Palestinian refugees ( UNRWA ) said it halted the delivery of aid through Karem Abu Salem ( known as Kerem Shalom to Israelis ) -- the main crossing point for humanitarian aid between Israel and Gaza -- due to security concerns such as theft by armed gangs . <p> Children wait to collect food at a community kitchen Abdelhakim Abu Riash/Al Jazeera <p> This has only intensified the struggles of families like Ghada 's already devastated by more than a year of war . <p> It has taken a massive toll on her mental and emotional wellbeing . <p> " I feel humiliated and degraded , begging every day to secure food for my children . I wish for death daily because of this endless struggle , " she said . <p> " When my children cry from hunger , I sometimes lash out at them in frustration . Last night , I hit my eight-year-old son because he was crying for food , " she revealed , her voice filled with anguish . <p> " He cried himself to sleep , and I spent the night in tears . " <p> " Our situation is beyond words . Stop this tragedy . We are exhausted , " she pleaded . <h> ' Without community kitchens , we would n't be able to eat ' <p> -Mohammed Abu Rami <p> Mohammed Abu Rami goes daily to a tekkiyyat in Deir el-Balah to collect the sole meal his family will eat for the day Abdelhakim Abu Raish/Al Jazeera <p> Mohammed Abu Rami goes daily to a tekkiyyat in Deir el-Balah to collect the sole meal his family will eat for the day Abdelhakim Abu Raish/Al Jazeera <p> Like Ghada , Mohammed Abu Rami is entirely reliant on community kitchens to feed his family of 11 . <p> The 58-year-old makes the daily trip from his tent in a temporary camp in Deir el-Balah to line up at a charity kitchen with two of his sons , often arriving at least two hours before the food distribution begins . <p> " Without the tekkiyyat , we would n't be able to eat at all , " he explained . <p> " Last week , when the charities were closed , we went entire days without food . Our survival depends solely on what they provide . " <p> Mohammed , like many in Gaza , is entirely reliant on community kitchens Abdelhakim Abu Riash/Al Jazeera <p> Holding a plastic container as he waited , Mohammed describes how his family , which was displaced from Gaza City , lives " below the poverty line -- no work , no money , no medicine " . <p> " We have n't received any food aid in over five months , " he added , his voice heavy . <p> " Who can we turn to in the midst of this famine ? What can we say ? We are dying under the bombardment , hungry and cold . We only have God , " he said . <p> " Our patience has run out . I never imagined living through such unbearable days . This is deliberate starvation - a war within a war . " <h> ' People dying for a loaf of bread ' <p> -Karima al-Batsh <p> A group of displaced people gather at the Sanabel Community Kitchen , which provides daily meals in Khan Younis , southern Gaza Abdelhakim Abu Raish/Al Jazeera <p> A group of displaced people gather at the Sanabel Community Kitchen , which provides daily meals in Khan Younis , southern Gaza Abdelhakim Abu Raish/Al Jazeera <p> It was around 11:30am and Karima al-Batsh was struggling to stay in a queue outside a bakery as people around her tried to reach the front to buy bread . <p> She had been there since five in the morning and had arrived to find hundreds of people already waiting - everyone competing for the same scarce item of food . <p> While thousands of Palestinians line up daily at community kitchens , an even larger number of people gather outside bakeries from the early hours of the morning , desperate for bread given the severely depleted supply of wheat flour due to Israel 's restrictions . <p> " I have no flour , and there 's none available in the markets , " explained the 39-year-old . " We have n't received any aid . " <p> After Karima and her family were displaced from Gaza City 's Zeitoun neighbourhood to Deir el-Balah , her husband was killed in an Israeli air strike . The mother of four now braves the crowds outside bakeries , which have for many become a stark symbol of the deepening humanitarian crisis in Gaza , where hunger and desperation have pushed people to their limits . <p> " The scene is one of chaos and heartbreak , " said Karima as she waited for her turn . " Everyone is fighting for crumbs of bread to bring back something to their families . " <p> " The hunger is overwhelming , and the jostling is relentless , " she added . <p> " Last week , three women in Deir el-Balah died from suffocation in a stampede . How can the world allow this to happen -- people dying for a loaf of bread ? " <h> ' Never imagined a day when I would go hungry ' <p> -Mohammed Dardouna <p> Mohammed Dardouna arrives in the early hours of the morning to stand in line at a bakery Abdelhakim Abu Riash/Al Jazeera <p> Mohammed Dardouna arrives in the early hours of the morning to stand in line at a bakery Abdelhakim Abu Riash/Al Jazeera <p> Mohammed Dardouna emerged from a bakery queue - what he referred to as " the battle for bread " - his clothes dusty and his face etched with exhaustion . <p> " Our life is like zeft ( black like tar ) , " said 42-year-old Mohammed angrily , using a local expression to convey the inescapable hardship Palestinians are facing , a small bag of bread on his shoulder . <p> " I wake up at 5am to fetch water for my family . From 8 to 9am , I search for tekkiyyat to find food for my children . Then , I stand in line for hours to get bread , now scarce due to the flour shortage , " he explained , describing his daily routine in Deir el-Balah . <p> " This is the summary of life in Gaza now for many like me . " <p> Mohammed , a father of eight , was displaced from Jabalia in northern Gaza where the estimated up-to-95,000 Palestinians who live there face starvation and malnutrition . The independent Famine Review Committee has warned that famine could be " imminent " in areas in the north . <p> " I used to have a good life - a job , a small shop , an income , and my own home , " he reflected . " We endured the horrors of war , but to face hunger like this is unimaginable . " <p> With the price of a 25-kilogramme ( 55-pound ) bag of flour soaring to more than 1,000 shekels ( $280 ) , Mohammed voiced the desperation of many . " Who can afford even a fraction of that now ? " he asked . <p> " If this continues , we will bury ourselves alive . Death feels like the only escape , " he said . <p> " I never imagined a day when I would go hungry or watch my children starve . Stop the war . Let the flour in . How do we appeal to the world ? Shame on you . " <h> ' This flour is spoiled ... but what choice do I have ? ' <p> Fadia Wadi finds herself resorting to using spoiled flour infested with weevils and worms after being unable to endure the massive crowds at the bakery gates . <p> " As you can see , this flour is spoiled , full of insects , and has a terrible smell , " Fadia explained as she painstakingly sifted out bugs before kneading the flour into dough . " But what choice do I have ? Flour is either unavailable or too expensive . " <p> The 44-year-old mother of nine says hunger has forced her to make unimaginable compromises . Her eldest son was killed in an Israeli strike in northern Gaza in January , while her husband remains in the north , leaving her to provide for their eight remaining children . <p> " The war has pushed us into doing things I never thought I 'd have to do just to feed my children . " <p> Many families resort to using spoiled flour if they have it Abdelhakim Abu Riash/Al Jazeera <p> Although her children are reluctant to eat bread made from spoiled flour , Fadia feels it is safer than queueing at bakeries . <p> " I tried to get bread two days ago , but I came back covered in bruises from the stampede , " she explained while kneading . " A tragic , difficult life . " <p> While collecting food puts people at risk of being caught in a stampede , they also face the threat of Israeli strikes . <p> With vegetables , meat and poultry and basic staples like rice and pasta now unavailable or prohibitively expensive , Fadia has no option but to cook with insect-infested flour . <p> " Flour is missing , aid is scarce , and aid parcels have n't arrived for months . How can I provide bread or food ? " she asked . <p> " We used to throw this spoiled flour to the animals , but now we feed it to our children , not knowing or caring about the health risks , " she added . " Hunger drives us . " <p> Now dependent on charity distributions , Fadia describes a life dominated by endless waiting and long queues . " Everything here is a line -- food , bread , water , everything , " she said . <p> " We are hungry , we crave everything . I do n't know what will happen to us . " <p> Alaa al-Batniji stood in front of a vegetable stand in Deir el-Balah carefully choosing the few vegetables he could afford for his family of four children . <p> " The prices are unbelievable , " remarked the 38-year-old . " We used to buy vegetables by the kilo , but now it 's by the piece -- at insane prices . " <p> Bustling markets , once a source of sustenance for many , have become unattainable destinations for most displaced families due to prices skyrocketing since the start of the war . <p> The cost of two onions and two tomatoes is about 32 shekels ( $9 ) Abdelhakim Abu Riash/Al Jazeera <p> " Every day , we hope the situation improves , but it does n't . I never imagined seeing such extreme inflation , starvation , and hardship in my lifetime , " said Alaa , who was displaced from Shujayea neighbourhood east of Gaza City . <p> " I bought two onions today for six shekels each -- $3 for just two onions . In the past , I could buy a whole kilo for one shekel . Two tomatoes cost me 10 shekels ( $2.80 ) each . " <p> " The prices here make it feel like I 'm shopping in Chicago or Paris , " Alaa added . " Onions and salt ... have now become luxuries in Gaza . " <p> He put two onions in a bag . " I feel sorry for the people enduring these unbearable conditions . We 're tired . " 
@@118743231 <p> Washington , DC -- Palestinian rights advocates in the United States are denouncing the selection of Republican Congressman Brian Mast to lead the House Foreign Affairs Committee . <p> Mast , a pro-Israel hawk known for his incendiary remarks about Palestinians , was nominated on Monday by fellow Republicans to be the chair of the influential panel in the incoming Congress , sparking outrage . <p> On Tuesday , the Council on American-Islamic Relations ( CAIR ) highlighted Mast 's history of anti-Palestinian statements , including his vilification of civilians and his call for destroying infrastructure in Gaza . <p> " Brian Mast might be the perfect person to serve as a spokesperson for the war criminals of the Israeli government , but he has no business running congressional hearings on sensitive international issues that impact our nation 's security , " CAIR government affairs director Robert McCaw said in a statement . <p> Mast hit back at CAIR on Wednesday . " I 'd be more concerned if they were supporting me . Pace yourselves and buckle up , " he wrote in a social media post . <p> Advertisement <p> To assume leadership of the committee , the Florida Republican still needs to be elected by the full House , where his party holds a thin majority when the new chamber takes office early in January . <p> If successful , Mast -- who wore an Israeli army uniform to the US Capitol last year -- will preside over the panel that oversees legislation related to foreign policy . <p> Mast , a US army veteran who lost his legs in an attack in Afghanistan , has previously served as a civilian volunteer in the Israeli military . <h> Comparing Palestinians to Nazis <p> Since the start of Israel 's war in Gaza in October last year , Mast has publicly defended Israel 's right to use any means necessary to attack the Palestinian enclave . <p> Last year , for example , Mast said humanitarian aid to Gaza " should be slowed down " , despite a suffocating Israeli siege that has caused deadly starvation in the enclave . <p> The International Criminal Court ( ICC ) issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his former Defence Minister Yoav Gallant in November for suspected war crimes , including the use of hunger as a weapon of war . <p> Mast has also suggested that all Palestinians in Gaza are legitimate targets for Israeli violence and starvation . <p> " I do n't think we would so lightly throw around the term ' innocent Nazi civilians ' during World War II . It is not a far stretch to say there are very few innocent Palestinian civilians , " the US congressman said last year . <p> The remarks prompted Democratic Congresswoman Sara Jacobs to lead an unsuccessful push to formally rebuke Mast in the House . <p> Advertisement <p> " Brian Mast 's comments are incredibly dangerous and dehumanizing as we continue to push for humanitarian aid to reach Palestinians in harm 's way in Gaza and as Islamophobic hate crimes rise , " Jacobs said in a statement at that time . <p> Medea Benjamin , co-founder of the antiwar group Code Pink , described Mast as the " most cruel , heartless member of Congress " . <p> " His total disregard for Palestinian civilians fans the flames of violence . His position as chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee bodes ill for a foreign policy that strives to protect human life and promote peace , " she told Al Jazeera . <p> Benjamin and other activists confronted Mast on Capitol Hill about his views earlier this year . When asked whether he has seen pictures of Palestinian children killed by Israel , the Republican legislator responded : " These are not innocent Palestinian civilians . " <p> Israel has killed at least 44,800 Palestinians , including more than 17,000 children , in Gaza since the start of the war , according to local health authorities . <p> United Nations experts and rights groups have described the Israeli campaign as a genocide : an effort to destroy the Palestinian people in whole or in part . <h> ' Absurdity and fanaticism ' <p> Mast rejects any criticism against Israel by international groups and the UN . He has also called for disbanding the UN agency for Palestinian refugees , UNRWA . <p> Yasmine Taeb , the legislative and political director at MPower Change , a Muslim American civic engagement group , highlighted Mast 's history of " inflammatory and dehumanizing remarks " . <p> Advertisement <p> " Mast 's election as the next Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee just shows the utter absurdity and fanaticism we should expect from the House GOP next year , " Taeb told Al Jazeera in a statement . <p> When asked for comment about the criticism , Mast 's office referred Al Jazeera to the congressman 's response to CAIR on social media . <p> Critics fear Mast 's nomination is likely part of a larger trend towards unquestioning support for Israel 's war . <p> While Democratic President Joe Biden has already provided billions of dollars in unconditional support to Israel , the incoming administration of Republican President Donald Trump is set to be dominated by even more staunchly pro-Israel officials . <p> So Mast may be able to push foreign policy measures in coordination with allies at the White House . Republicans will also have a majority in the Senate . <p> Hassan el-Tayyab , legislative director for Middle East policy at the Friends Committee on National Legislation , a Quaker social justice group , called Mast one of the " most ferociously anti-Palestinian voices " in Congress . <p> " His position unfortunately reflects a broader sentiment among too many Congress members who continue to supply unconditional weapons and military support to Israel , despite the Netanyahu government violating countless US laws and policies through its indiscriminate military campaign in Gaza and beyond , " el-Tayyab told Al Jazeera . <p> Netanyahu 's office welcomed Mast 's nomination earlier this week , hailing the congressman as a " great American patriot and a true friend of Israel " . 
@@118743237 <p> After the fall of Syria 's Bashar al-Assad , Israel has been encroaching on its neighbour 's territory . <p> Since al-Assad 's dramatic flight to Russia on Sunday , Israel has attacked Syria more than 400 times and , despite UN protests , launched a military incursion into the buffer zone that has separated the two countries since 1974 . <p> These aggressions have come as the country tries to transition away from 53 years of dynastic family rule . <p> In the last few months , Israel has attacked its neighbour Lebanon and has continued to wage a war condemned as genocide on the beleaguered population of Gaza . <p> But why is Israel now attacking Syria ? Here 's everything you need to know . <h> Why is Israel attacking Syria ? <p> Now , Israel says it is focused on destroying Syrian military infrastructure . <p> Israel claims that it is trying to stop weapons from landing in the hands of " extremists " , a definition it has applied to a rotating list of actors , most recently Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , the primary Syrian opposition group that led the operation to overthrow al-Assad . <p> Advertisement <h> What did it hit ? <p> Israel says it has targeted military facilities , including weapon warehouses , ammunition depots , airports , naval bases and research centres . <p> Israel has also deployed military units to the buffer zone along the Golan Heights separating Syria and Israel . The terrain has been an officially designated demilitarised zone as part of a 1974 UN-brokered ceasefire deal . <p> ( Al Jazeera ) <p> Israel occupies approximately two-thirds of the Golan Heights , with the UN-administered buffer zone spanning a narrow , 400-square-kilometre ( 154-sq-mile ) area . The rest has been controlled by Syria . <p> Syrian security forces have also reported Israeli tanks advancing from the Golan Heights into Qatana , 10km ( six miles ) into Syrian territory and close to the capital . <p> Israeli military sources have denied any such incursion . <p> ( Al Jazeera ) <p> In addition to the more than 100 strikes on the capital , Israel carried out attacks in Al Mayadin in the east , Tartous and Masyaf in the northwest , at the Qusayr crossing with Lebanon , and the Khalkhalah military airport in the south . <h> What is Israel 's justification for this latest attack on a sovereign nation ? <p> That it is acting in its defence . <p> Benjamin Netanyahu told reporters on Monday that the former Syrian territory along the Golan Heights , which has been classed as a demilitarised zone since 1974 , would remain part of Israel " for eternity " . <p> At a briefing for foreign media , Sa'ar said Israel was acting " in a precautionary manner " . <p> " That 's why we attacked strategic weapons systems , like , for example , remaining chemical weapons , or long-range missiles and rockets , in order that they not fall into the hands of extremists , " he said . <h> What does Israel want from Syria ? <p> That 's not clear yet . <p> The government has not made any statements outside of " acting in the interest of Israel 's defence " that could indicate its intent . <p> However , some prominent Israeli figures have spoken about their views of what should happen next . <p> Benny Gantz , leader of the National Unity party and a Netanyahu opponent , told reporters on Monday that this was " an opportunity of historic proportion " for Israel . He called on policymakers to " develop our relations with the Druze , Kurds and other groups in Syria " , suggesting that Israel may be able to develop relations with groups who have traditionally opposed the coalition of armed opposition that deposed al-Assad . <p> The same day , The Times of Israel interviewed a researcher and former member of the Israeli military , who took Gantz suggestion even further , suggesting that Syria could be broken up into a series of cantons , with each free to cooperate with external actors , including Israel . <p> " The modern nation-state in the Middle East has failed , " former Colonel Anan Wahabi , who identified as a member of the Druze minority , said . 
@@118743238 <p> Since then , China has been cautious in its response to the rapid shifts in Syria . On Monday , the Chinese foreign ministry said that a " political solution " must be found in Syria as soon as possible to restore stability . <p> But while that caution also captures how China has approached its relationship with Syria more broadly , al-Assad 's sudden ouster affects the world 's second-largest economy just as it is increasingly trying to expand its footprint in the Middle East , say analysts . <p> Advertisement <p> So what has China 's relationship with Syria been , and how will it change with new leadership in Damascus ? <h> What happened in Syria ? <p> The Syrian war sprung up in 2011 after al-Assad cracked down on protests against his government . The protests then developed into a rebellion , with multiple groups involved . <p> The governments of Russia and Iran , Lebanon 's Hezbollah , and some other Iran-aligned groups in the region have backed al-Assad . The United States , Turkiye , and most Middle Eastern nations have meanwhile been critical of al-Assad , and his brutal crackdown on civilian populations and the political opposition . <p> On November 27 , rebel groups , led by HTS , launched a major offensive from their base in the Idlib governorate in northwestern Syria . In three days , opposition fighters took Syria 's second-largest city , Aleppo . A little over a week later , they took over Damascus . Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters on Monday that al-Assad was given asylum in Russia . <h> What has China 's relationship been with al-Assad ? <p> Officially , China has been coy about taking sides over the future direction of Syria since the collapse of the al-Assad regime . <p> " The future and destiny of Syria should be decided by the Syrian people , and we hope that all the relevant parties will find a political solution to restore stability and order as soon as possible , " Mao Ning , China 's foreign ministry spokesperson said at a regular news conference on Monday . <p> However , while China has not had direct military involvement in the Syrian war unlike Iran and Russia , the relationship between Damascus and Beijing was cosy while al-Assad was in office . <p> Advertisement <p> And it was growing warmer . <p> The Syrian leader 's Hangzhou visit was his first official trip to the country in almost two decades . During this trip , China pledged to help al-Assad with Syria 's reconstruction after more than a decade of war , at a time when the Syrian leader was a pariah for many nations around the world . <p> " Faced with an international situation full of instability and uncertainty , China is willing to continue to work together with Syria , firmly support each other , promote friendly cooperation , and jointly defend international fairness and justice , " Xi told al-Assad , according to Chinese state media . <p> Xi added that relations between the two countries " have withstood the test of international changes " . <h> Diplomatic shield for al-Assad <p> China has used its veto power in the United Nations Security Council ( UNSC ) to block draft resolutions critical of al-Assad on 10 occasions . That 's out of 30 resolutions related to the Syrian war proposed at the UNSC . <p> In July 2020 , for instance , Russia and China vetoed a draft resolution to extend aid deliveries from Turkiye to Syria . The reason behind the veto , the countries said , was that it violated Syria 's sovereignty and that the aid should be distributed by Syrian authorities . The remaining 13 members voted for the resolution to pass . <p> China 's UN ambassador Zhang Jun blamed unilateral sanctions against Syria for worsening the humanitarian situation in the country . The sanctions have been placed by the United States and the European Union . <p> Advertisement <p> In September 2019 , Russia and China vetoed a draft resolution that called for a ceasefire in Syria 's Idlib , a rebel strong-hold . <p> " I think the Chinese , as they have done a fair few times , have gone along with the Russians for solidarity but it really was the Russian objection to this resolution , " Al Jazeera 's Diplomatic Editor James Bays said then . <h> Chinese money in al-Assad 's Syria <p> But China has been more than a sidekick to Russia in Syria . In the last decade , China ramped up its financial assistance to Syria , an indicator of its backing of al-Assad 's government . <p> In December 2016 , the Syrian government secured a victory against the rebels when it retook the city of Aleppo . This marked a turning point in China 's aid strategy , according to the Cyprus-headquartered independent risk and development consultancy , the Center for Operational Analysis and Research ( COAR ) . <p> China 's aid to Syria jumped 100 times from roughly $500,000 in 2016 to $54m in 2017 , according to COAR reports . In October 2018 , China donated 800 electrical power generators to Latakia , Syria 's largest port . <p> Beijing has also made major , long-term investments in Syrian oil and gas -- totalling about $3bn . <p> In 2008 , China 's petrochemical enterprise Sinopec International Petroleum Exploration and Production Corporation brought Canada 's Calgary-based Tanganyika Oil company in a deal worth about $2bn . Tanganyika had a production-sharing agreement with Syria and held operating interests in two Syrian properties . <p> In 2009 , China 's state-owned multinational company Sinochem bought British oil and gas explorer Emerald Energy , which operates in Syria , for $878m . <p> Advertisement <p> And in 2010 , the China National Petroleum Corporation ( CNPC ) signed an agreement with Shell to acquire a 35 percent stake in Shell 's Syria unit . <p> Earlier this year , Syria 's Minister of Electricity Ghassan Al-Zamel confirmed a 38.2 million-euro ( about $40m ) contract with a Chinese company to construct a large photovoltaic plant near Syria 's western city Homs , according to Berlin-based publication , The Syria Report . <p> In 2022 , Syria also joined Xi 's Belt and Road Initiative ( BRI ) , a network of highways , ports and railroads that China is building , connecting Asia to Africa , Europe and Latin America . <p> Investments in Syria since its entry into the BRI have been slow , and facing the threat of secondary US sanctions , China has divested from some of its projects in Syria in recent years . <p> Still , China has been Syria 's third-biggest source of imports behind Turkiye and the United Arab Emirates , according to the Observatory of Economic Complexity . In 2022 , China 's exports to Syria stood at $424m , driven by fabric , iron and rubber tyres . Syria 's exports to China are negligible by comparison and are dominated by soap , olive oil and other vegetable products . <h> How will the situation in Syria affect China ? <p> For China , " the fall of Assad does represent the loss of a diplomatic partner , " William Matthews , a senior research fellow for the Asia Pacific Programme at London-based think tank Chatham House , told Al Jazeera . <p> " China 's overall approach in the region has been one of pragmatic engagement , " Matthews added . <p> Advertisement <p> He said that while the HTS is " unlikely to be keen to work with China as a close partner , China will most likely seek to maintain engagement with the new government , including with a view to opportunities for cooperation " . <p> Matthews explained that China 's engagement with the Taliban in Afghanistan could provide a potential comparison " but it is too early to say so definitively " . <p> On January 30 this year , Xi 's government was the first to officially recognise a Taliban diplomat since the group seized power in 2021 . While no country officially recognises the Taliban-led government , Beijing recognised Bilal Karimi , a former Taliban spokesman , as an official envoy to China . In 2023 , many Chinese companies signed business deals with the Taliban government . <p> The fact that " China remains on good terms " with the Taliban , said Andrew Leung , an international and independent China strategist , suggests that " HTS is unlikely to pose a critical problem for China . " Leung , who has held many senior government positions in Hong Kong , added : " Indeed , China 's infrastructure building capacities are likely to be sought after in the war-torn Middle East . " <p> However , how China will respond to that demand for investments is unclear . <p> " Given that China has adopted a more cautious approach to overseas investments in recent years , while it is possible that China might make new investments in Syria , these will likely be calibrated against the risk of instability and potential opportunities for increased longer-term influence , " Matthews said . <p> Advertisement <p> He added that al-Assad 's fall poses a challenge for China because " China has growing interests in the Middle East region as an economic and development partner , and increasingly in areas such as technology and defence " . <p> In March 2023 , China brokered a diplomatic detente between Saudi Arabia and Iran . The deal came as a surprise , after years of simmering tensions and a formal cutting of ties between the two countries in 2016 . <p> In July this year , Beijing hosted rival Palestinian groups Hamas and Fatah , alongside 12 smaller Palestinian groups . After three days of intensive talks , the groups signed a " national unity " agreement aimed at maintaining Palestinian control over Gaza after Israel 's war on the enclave is over . <p> According to Matthews , " the key setback for China is the risk Assad 's overthrow poses for regional stability , including the spillover of conflict into neighbouring countries " . 
@@118745233 <h> Top Biden aides head to Mideast in diplomatic push on Syria , Gaza <p> Secretary of State Antony Blinken attends an interview , in Brussels , Belgium . <p> WASHINGTON &gt;&gt; President Joe Biden 's top aides were heading to the Middle East on Wednesday seeking to advance efforts to reach an elusive Gaza ceasefire and hostage deal and help ensure a smooth transition in Syria following the overthrow of Bashar al-Assad . <p> Secretary of State Antony Blinken was set to visit Jordan and Turkey , while U.S. national security adviser Jake Sullivan planned stops in Israel , Qatar and Egypt in coming days , U.S. officials said . <p> The high-level tour could help shape Biden 's legacy in the turbulent Middle East in the final weeks of his term before former President Donald Trump returns to the White House on Jan. 20 . But it is unclear whether Biden has enough leverage in the region to secure major agreements before he leaves office . <p> Biden administration officials have kept Trump 's aides updated on their diplomatic efforts , though they insist they are not directly coordinating with the incoming administration . <p> High on the agenda for Biden 's aides will be the future of Syria , where opposition militias overthrew Assad over the weekend , ending a 50-year family dynasty in a shockingly fast takeover after 13 years of civil war . <p> Blinken , who will visit Aqaba in Jordan and Ankara through Friday , will " reiterate the United States ' support for an inclusive , Syrian-led transition to an accountable and representative government , " the State Department said . <h> Do n't miss out on what 's happening ! <p> Stay in touch with top news , as it happens , conveniently in your email inbox . It 's FREE ! <p> The Biden administration , along with governments in the region and the West , has been scrambling to find ways to engage with the Syrian rebel groups including leading rebel faction Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , a group formerly allied with Al Qaeda and which is designated a terrorist organization by the U.S. , European Union , Turkey and the U.N . <p> Blinken and Sullivan will also try to make progress toward a deal to end the 14-month war in Gaza and win the release of the remaining hostages held there by the Iran-backed Palestinian militant group Hamas . <p> Such an agreement , which has involved mediation by Qatar and Egypt , has hit one obstacle after another . <p> Trump warned last week there would be " hell to pay " in the Middle East if hostages held in Gaza were not released before his January inauguration . A U.S. official said the threat was not necessarily counterproductive or helpful to the process . <p> SEEKING TO BUILD MOMENTUM <p> The Biden administration hopes that the recent ceasefire agreement between Israel and the Iran-backed Hezbollah group in Lebanon as well as the ouster of Assad , a close ally of Tehran , could help build momentum toward a Gaza accord . <p> " Hamas has got to be looking out at the world today and realizing that the cavalry is not coming to rescue them , " White House national security spokesperson John Kirby said on Tuesday . " One would hope that recent developments in Syria reinforce for them that they are just increasingly isolated and ought to take a deal . " <p> Still , the prospects for progress remain tempered after months of unsuccessful diplomacy . <p> Sullivan 's trip is not meant " to suggest that we 're near completion or have something we can lock down " but the aim instead is to move forward as much as possible , " a U.S. official said , speaking on condition of anonymity . Sullivan will meet Israeli leaders on Thursday and then travel to Qatar and Egypt . <p> U.S. Deputy National Security Adviser Jon Finer said on Tuesday , in an interview at the Reuters NEXT conference in New York , that there was " new energy " toward a Gaza deal after one was reached between Israel and Hezbollah . <p> A Palestinian official close to the talks described " extensive and intensive contacts underway between the parties " but " nothing concrete yet . " The official , speaking on condition of anonymity , said the pressure from Trump and his camp " gives the talks a boost , " but did not elaborate . <p> " We are keeping them informed , " the U.S. official . " Making sure nothing we say or do is a surprise to them . " <p> Trump 's incoming Middle East envoy , Steve Witkoff , met in late November with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Qatar 's Prime Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al Thani , in a push for a Gaza deal before the U.S. inauguration , a source briefed on the talks has previously told Reuters . <p> 2 Comments <p> By participating in online discussions you acknowledge that you have agreed to the Terms of Service . An insightful discussion of ideas and viewpoints is encouraged , but comments must be civil and in good taste , with no personal attacks . If your comments are inappropriate , you may be banned from posting . Report comments if you believe they do not follow our guidelines.Having trouble with comments ? Learn more here . 
@@118754725 <h> " By legally intervening in South Africa 's case , Ireland will be asking the ICJ to broaden its interpretation of what constitutes the commission of genocide by a State , " the announcement read . <p> Delegates attend a ruling on South Africa 's request to order a halt to Israel 's Rafah offensive in Gaza as part of a larger case brought before the Hague-based court by South Africa accusing Israel of genocide , at the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) , in The Hague , Netherlands May 24 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/Johanna Geron ) <p> Ireland 's Tanaiste and Foreign Affairs Minister Michael Martin received government approval for Ireland to intervene in South Africa 's case against Israel at the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) under the Genocide Convention , Ireland 's Foreign Affairs Department announced on Wednesday . <p> " By legally intervening in South Africa 's case , Ireland will be asking the ICJ to broaden its interpretation of what constitutes the commission of genocide by a State , " the department said in a statement . <p> " We are concerned that a very narrow interpretation of what constitutes genocide leads to a culture of impunity in which the protection of civilians is minimized . " <p> " There has been a collective punishment of the Palestinian people through the intent and impact of military actions of Israel in Gaza , leaving 44,000 dead and millions of civilians displaced , " the statement read , citing an unconfirmed death toll provided by the Hamas-controlled Gaza Health Ministry . <p> " Ireland 's view of the convention is broader and prioritizes the protection of civilian life , " the statement continued , " Intervening in both cases demonstrates the consistency of Ireland 's approach to the interpretation and application of the Genocide Convention . " Tanaiste Micheal Martin leaves the Grand Central Hotel on January 31 , 2024 in Belfast , United Kingdom . ( credit : CHARLES MCQUILLAN/GETTY IMAGES ) <h> Approval for additional intervention <p> The government also approved intervention in the Gambia 's case against Myanmar under the same convention . <p> Ireland previously signaled that it would intervene in the ongoing case , with Irish Foreign Minister Micheal Martin saying in March that it was for the ICJ to decide whether genocide is being committed . <p> In January , the ICJ ordered Israel to refrain from any acts that could fall under the Genocide Convention . 
@@118754728 <p> Tanks stand after rebels led by HTS have sought to capitalize on their swift takeover of Aleppo in the north and Hama in west-central Syria by pressing onwards to Homs , in Hama , Syria December 6 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/Mahmoud Hasano ) <p> Israel 's concern that the instability in Syria could spill over into its territory has led it to major action in the neighboring country , essentially opening an additional front in the multi-front war it has been engaged in for fourteen months . <p> Over the weekend , the Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) took control of the demilitarized buffer zone in Syria that was established as part of a 1974 cease-fire reached between the two hostile countries . <p> In that buffer zone is Mt . Hermon 's highest peak , the highest point on the east coast of the Mediterranean Sea . <p> " The territory guarantees strategic control over the whole southern Syrian arena , which generates an immediate threat to Israel , " Kobi Michael , a researcher at INSS and the Misgav Institute for National Security and Zionist Strategy , told The Media Line . " There is no higher vantage point than the Syrian part of the Golan . " <p> Power in Syria is now de-centralized , with the country fragmented between several groups , most of them extreme Islamist , potentially posing a new array of threats to Israel . A rebel fighter sits on the back of a vehicle in Homs countryside , after Syrian rebels pressed on in their lightning advance on Saturday . ( credit : REUTERS/Mahmoud Hasano ) <p> " Israel is not looking to apply sovereignty to the buffer zone , but rather to militarily control the area in order to prevent danger under conditions of instability , " Michael assessed . <p> Israeli officials have emphasized the tactical nature of the move , which also likely stems from the trauma from the surprise attack executed by the Hamas terrorist attack on its border with Gaza last year . <p> " For decades , the Israeli security establishment considered the border with Syria its quietest and closely associated to the Assad regime , " Dr. Joel Parker , a researcher from the Moshe Dayan Center for Middle Eastern and African Studies at Tel Aviv University , told The Media Line . " Assad is the devil Israel knows , but at the same time , with the de-facto commitment to non-aggression with Syria , Israel watched it build up military abilities , including the development of chemical weapons , to levels that were far beyond when the armistice line was created . " <p> In 2007 , however , Israel carried out an airstrike against a suspected Syrian nuclear site . Years later , it took responsibility for the attack . Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Israel would not allow its neighbors to develop nuclear weapons . Syria denied the site was a nuclear reactor . <h> Taking advantage of internal chaos <p> Now , Israel is taking advantage of the internal chaos . The Israeli military swiftly entered Syria , apparently reaching deep into its territory and taking control of the peak of Mount Hermon , which allows for an advantageous view of both Syria and Lebanon . Reportedly , the army also conducted airstrikes in Syria against sites that stored unconventional weapons , air-defense systems , and navy vessels . Video on social media showed explosions in various cities and pictures of alleged Syrian Air Force bases destroyed . <p> " This is an unprecedented event in which the Israeli army has the ability to completely destroy an enemy army without a war , " said Michael . " This opportunity is being used wisely by Israel in order to ensure a better reality . " <p> The IDF only confirmed it had entered the buffer zone and was holding positions there , denying reports its forces were approaching the capital , Damascus . This offensive has so far gone without a response from Syria or any of the factions currently holding control . <p> Israel captured part of the Golan Heights from Syria during the 1967 Mideast war . It annexed the territories in a move that was considered illegal by most of the international community , which still considers the territory Syrian . In 2019 , the US departed from decades of policy and recognized Israel 's sovereignty over the territory . The other part of the mountainous area remained in Syria 's control . UN forces have patrolled the buffer zone since the 1974 agreement . <p> " The Golan Heights will be an inseparable part of the State of Israel forever , " said Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu at a press conference he held on Monday night , indicating his country 's intentions . <p> Netanyahu defined the movement into the buffer zone as temporary , but in the Middle East , what often begins as temporary often becomes permanent . The UN said the move violated international agreements . Arab leaders condemned it , and a spokesperson for the US State Department said that while it expected the move to be temporary , the US understood Israeli motives . <p> " The Syrian army abandoned its positions in the area ... which potentially creates a vacuum that could have been filled by terrorist organizations that would threaten the state of Israel ... every country has the right to take action against terrorist organizations , and every country , I think , would be worried about a possible vacuum that could be filled by terrorist organizations on its border , especially in volatile times , as we obviously are in right now in Syria , " said Matthew Miller . <p> Israel is concerned that the different groups that are now clamoring for power in Syria after the regime of President Bashar Assad collapsed will be hostile . Abu Mohammed al-Golani , who led the insurgency against Assad , is a former Al-Qaida terrorist who claims he has reformed and abandoned extremism . Classified by the US as a terrorist and previously imprisoned for his activities , he has been associated with the extremist Islamic State of Iraq , led by Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi . <p> Al-Golani leads Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , or the Organization for Liberating Syria . Videos on social media earlier this week showed HTS members vowing to help Palestinians in Gaza act against Israel and liberate Jerusalem from Israeli control . <p> " What is known about al-Golani poses red flags for Israel , " said Parker . " He is the new kid on the block , associated with many jihadist operatives in the world , which has access to almost unlimited manpower . His charisma , his jihadi ideology , and his current control in Syria have Israel wanting him not to have access to chemical weapons , ballisticmissiles , and even helicopters . " <p> When the swift insurgency began , the Israeli army already put its forces on high alert , sending reinforcements . <p> " There is no way to tell where this is going , " said Michael . " Israel could be facing a difficult reality that will force it to stay and broaden its hold on territory , perhaps even act more forcefully in order to pre-empt danger . " <p> The collapse of the Assad regime is one of the most significant shifts to occur in the Middle East in decades . While Israel and Syria were sworn enemies under both Bashar Assad and his father , there was stability in the relationship , which has now been rattled . While this has removed Iranian presence from Israel 's border , it could be replaced by extreme Islam , which is also not favorable to the Jewish state . 
@@118754729 <h> Diplomatic pragmatism paired with nuclear brinkmanship -- makes the coming months a critical period for Israeli and international policymakers . <p> HEZBOLLAH FLAGS flutter atop a poster depicting Hassan Nasrallah , in southern Lebanon , near the border with Israel , on October 8 , 2023 . The collapse of Bashar al-Assad 's regime in Syria marks the end of an era , the writer asserts . ( photo credit : REUTERS ) <p> The collapse of Bashar Assad 's regime in Syria marks the end of an era . For over five decades , the Assad dynasty ruled Syria , positioning it as a critical ally for Iran and a cornerstone of the so-called " Axis of Resistance . " Now , with the Syrian regime 's fall , the Middle East is entering uncharted territory -- one that presents both significant challenges and opportunities , particularly for Israel . <p> Since October 8 , 2023 , the northern border of Israel has been anything but quiet . Hezbollah , emboldened by Iran and deeply entrenched in Lebanon , has escalated hostilities . The group has sought to exploit Israel 's focus on Gaza , where the IDF is engaged in dismantling Hamas and working to secure the release of over 100 hostages taken on October 7 . <p> But Hezbollah 's strategic calculus has always relied heavily on the support of its patron in Tehran and the land bridge connecting Iran to Lebanon via Syria . With Assad 's regime gone , that corridor is shattered , and Hezbollah faces a dramatically altered battlefield . <p> For Iran , Syria under Assad was far more than an ally ; it was a lifeline . The land corridor connecting Tehran to Damascus and Beirut enabled the seamless transfer of advanced weapons systems to Hezbollah and the deployment of Iranian fighters and advisers . This axis gave Iran the capacity to project power across the Levant , encircling Israel and bolstering Hezbollah 's arsenal . <p> Now , the fall of Damascus leaves Hezbollah isolated . Without Syria 's logistical and strategic depth , the group 's ability to replenish its weapons stockpiles , already degraded by Israeli airstrikes , will be severely constrained . Hezbollah 's infrastructure has been targeted relentlessly by the IDF in both Lebanon and Syria , and the loss of Assad 's regime only deepens the cracks in its armor . Syrian Kurds stand next to the destroyed statue of Basel al-Assad , the late elder brother of Syria 's President Bashar al-Assad as they celebrate the fall of capital Damascus to anti-government fighters , in the city of Qamishli on December 8 , 2024. ( credit : DELIL SOULEIMAN/AFP via Getty Images ) <h> Iran 's response <p> The timing of this shift could n't be more significant . Hezbollah 's aggression on Israel 's northern border was part of a broader Iranian strategy to pressure Israel from multiple fronts during its war with Hamas . That strategy now faces a formidable obstacle . A weakened Hezbollah , cut off from its supply lines , will struggle to maintain its current level of hostility toward Israel . <p> Iran 's response to Assad 's fall will likely follow two parallel paths . On one hand , Tehran may seek to stabilize its regional position through diplomacy . Iran has been cornered economically and politically , and the loss of Syria diminishes its leverage . Talks with the United States and regional actors may offer a way to ease sanctions and buy time . <p> On the other hand , a weakened Iran may choose to double down on its pursuit of nuclear weapons . The collapse of its proxy network , from Gaza to Beirut , leaves Tehran with fewer conventional options to deter Israel and the United States . A nuclear Iran would dramatically alter the balance of power , and the regime may calculate that the only way to secure its survival is through the ultimate deterrent . <p> This dual strategy -- diplomatic pragmatism paired with nuclear brinkmanship -- makes the coming months a critical period for Israeli and international policymakers . <p> FOR ISRAEL , Assad 's fall is both a strategic win and a cautionary tale . The immediate benefit is clear : the disruption of Iran 's weapons pipeline to Hezbollah weakens a primary threat to Israeli security . But the collapse of Syria also introduces new uncertainties . <p> The rise of Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) and other Sunni rebel groups in Syria could lead to further destabilization along Israel 's northern border . While these groups are hostile to Iran , they are no allies of Israel either . The power vacuum in Syria may attract extremist factions eager to exploit the chaos , forcing Israel to prepare for threats from new , unpredictable actors . <p> Turkey 's growing influence in northern Syria also demands attention . Ankara has long viewed the region as a zone of strategic interest , and its ambitions may now clash with both Israeli and Iranian priorities . Meanwhile , Sunni Arab states , emboldened by Iran 's setbacks , may seek to capitalize on Assad 's fall by strengthening their alliances with Israel . <p> As I reflect on these developments , I am reminded that the Middle East is a region defined by its capacity for rapid , seismic change . The fall of Assad is not just the end of a dictatorship ; it 's the beginning of a new chapter in the region 's history . For Israel , this moment offers a chance to reshape its northern security landscape , but it also demands vigilance . <p> Iran 's Axis of Resistance is undeniably weakened , but Tehran is not out of the game . Whether it retreats , recalibrates , or escalates its nuclear ambitions will shape the region 's future . <p> For those of us watching from the front lines -- whether in the North or South of Israel -- this is a moment of opportunity and danger . The stakes are as high as ever . How Israel navigates this shifting landscape will determine not only its security but also its place in a Middle East that , once again , is reinventing itself . <p> The writer is a new immigrant from France who made aliyah in October 2022 . She currently works as the press and media coordinator for the Zionist Organization of America , where she advocates for Zionist values and supports pro-Israel initiatives globally . 
@@118754730 <h> Hagari : No advance on Damascus , only buffer zone until Syria becomes more stable . <p> By YONAH JEREMY BOBJPost Military Correspondent Yonah Jeremy Bob reports on the ground in Syria following the fall of the Assad regime , December 11 , 2024 ( YONAH JEREMY BOB ) <p> The Jerusalem Post , on Wednesday , participated in a dramatic visit to Tel Kudne in southern Syria , embedded with the IDF , as part of the first Israeli media visit to that country since the 1973-4 Yom Kippur War and armistice . <p> An abandoned Syrian military outpost used by the Assad regime , December 11 , 2024 ( credit : YONAH JEREMY BOB ) <p> At Tel Kudne , IDF Chief Spokesman Daniel Hagari told the Post , " We are here in an abandoned Syrian base in the buffer zone . The only reason we are here is to prevent terror from entering into the buffer zone . " <h> Expert : Israel can ' completely destroy enemy army without war ' through Syria control <p> By KEREN SETTON/THE MEDIA LINE Tanks stand after rebels led by HTS have sought to capitalize on their swift takeover of Aleppo in the north and Hama in west-central Syria by pressing onwards to Homs , in Hama , Syria December 6 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/Mahmoud Hasano ) <p> Israel 's concern that the instability in Syria could spill over into its territory has led it to major action in the neighboring country , essentially opening an additional front in the multi-front war it has been engaged in for fourteen months . <p> Over the weekend , the Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) took control of the demilitarized buffer zone in Syria that was established as part of a 1974 cease-fire reached between the two hostile countries . <p> In that buffer zone is Mt . Hermon 's highest peak , the highest point on the east coast of the Mediterranean Sea . <p> Israeli action in Syria violates a 1974 treaty between Israel and Syria that ended the Yom Kippur war , the Russian Foreign Ministry said on Wednesday , calling Israeli air strikes on Syria a matter of serious concern . <p> Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz said on Tuesday that his country aims to impose a " sterile defense zone " in southern Syria as the Israeli military said a wave of its air strikes had destroyed the bulk of Syria 's strategic weapons stockpiles . <p> Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova told a news briefing Israel 's actions did not serve to stabilize the situation in Syria and called on it to show restraint . <h> " We believe that the entire matter of establishing a commission of inquiry should be addressed after the war ends , " the government representative 's said . <p> The High Court of Justice discussed a petition on Wednesday calling for the establishment of a National Commission of Inquiry into the events of October 7 . <p> Relatives of October 7 victims and hostages held in Gaza captivity were present at the discussion . Among them were Einav Zangauker , the mother of hostage Matan Zangauker , and Ilana Gritzewesky , his partner . They were joined by Eyal Eshel , the father of Roni Eshel , an IDF observer who was killed on October 7 , and Chagit Chen , the mother of Itay Chen , whose body is held in Gaza , among others . <p> Tehran has evidence that the events that took place in Syria leading to the ousting of former Syrian president Bashar al-Assad were planned by the United States and Israel , Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei said , according to Iranian state news agency IRNA . <p> " There should be no doubt that what happened in Syria is the result of a joint American and Zionist plan . " Khamenei reportedly noted . 
@@118754732 <h> In a world with blurred identities , how should we tackle antisemitic and antizionist attacks ? <p> Firefighters work at the scene of a fire at the Adass Israel Synagogue in Ripponlea , Melbourne , Australia , December 6 , 2024. ( photo credit : AAP Image/Con Chronis via REUTERS ) <p> Antisemitic attacks have become a sad norm for Diaspora Jews since the Hamas massacre of October 7 last year . Whatever claims are made about these heinous crimes as targeting Israel and its response in Gaza to the massacre , we do n't hesitate to call them out for what they are : hate-fueled abominable actions aimed at Jews . <p> Perhaps one of the greatest recent examples is the devastating fire that ripped through the Adass Israel Synagogue in Ripponlea , Melbourne , early Friday morning . Aside from the damage to the historic building , two people were wounded . <p> Like thieves in the night , the attackers did not raise their issues with the Jewish community face-to-face , during daylight hours , as civilized people do . They came in the dead of night , cowards that they are , and targeted a place that is a home of worship and a hall of sanctuary . <p> To ask " What did the community do to deserve this ? " rests on a false premise ; they did n't do anything beyond merely existing . Members of the Synagogue recover items from the Adass Israel Synagogue on December 06 , 2024 in Melbourne , Australia . ( credit : Asanka Ratnayake/Getty Images ) <h> No surprises here <p> Unfortunately , the fact that this happened at all is not surprising ; the fact that this happened in a democratic country with a functional security apparatus is egregious . These are citizens who deserve to be protected in person and property . <p> " The atrocities that occurred at the synagogue in Melbourne clearly were designed to create fear in the community and therefore , from my personal perspective , certainly fulfill that definition of terrorism , " Albanese said at a press conference in Perth . <p> One day earlier , on Saturday , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said that Australia 's Labor government motivated the crime with anti-Israel policies . <p> Netanyahu drew a clear line between the attack and the " anti-Israel spirit " of Albanese 's center-left government , the policies of which include support of a recent UN motion backing a Palestinian state . He posited that the two could not be separated . <p> Although global antisemitism has surged since October 7 , caution should be used before tying in Israel to every antisemitic attack . <p> The Melbourne attack broadcast two messages . First , that Jews are n't safe , anywhere , and second , that anything can be a target if the ends , whatever they may be , are justified enough in the mind of its attackers . <p> Australia 's government defended its record on antisemitism , saying on Saturday that since Albanese took office in May 2022 , the government has provided A$25 million ( $16 m. ) to upgrade security at Jewish sites including schools , banned the Nazi salute , and taken action against hate speech . Laws passed last year also banned public displays of terror group symbols . <p> However , this is a late-stage Band-Aid to the equivalent of a heart condition . The sense of a lack of legitimacy and safety did not begin with the Melbourne arson attack . There was the June vandalizing and arson of Jewish parliamentarian Josh Burns ' office , and the defacement of vehicles , along with arson , in Sydney in November . A report by the Executive Council of Australian Jewry found a 316% increase in anti-Jewish incidents in Australia from October 7 , 2023 , through this past September . <p> " Everyone has the right to be proud of who they are and to feel welcome , safe , and supported in Australia , " Albanese said on Sunday . " Antisemitism has no place in our country . We unequivocally condemn it . " <p> The Australian government on Monday , three days after the attack , announced the formation of a counter-antisemitism task force . The Special Operation Avalite for Antisemitism will work with state and territory police to address issues like calls to violence or the advocating for terrorism or genocide . <p> But the government must do more . Unlike what Netanyahu said , this is not just about Israel , and tying between those two things can devalue the scope and trauma of the attack . <p> In a world growing more globalized by the day , with identities blurring , it is important to separate attacks like these from each other when they happen . They are domestic incidents first and must be tackled as such . Let 's hope the Australian government follows up on its promises and that the Australian Jewish community begins to feel the effects of personal safety again soon . 
@@118754736 <h> Akunis said now is the time to focus on educating the next generation about Jewish roots in Zionism and that " Israel is the wonder of the new era in the world . " <p> Israeli Consul General to New York Ofir Akunis is seen speaking at The Jerusalem Post Miami Summit , on December 10 , 2024. ( photo credit : Elliot La-Mer - DEMAGIC ) <p> The current negotiations with Hamas to reach a deal are different , New York Israeli Consul General Ofir Akunis said in conversation during the Jerusalem Post 's Miami Summit with Editor-in-Chief Zvika Klein . <p> Akunis indicated that there would be significant progress made on the deal by Hanukkah , though he did n't elaborate on what the suspected progress would look like . <p> " Nasrallah is not there anymore . Sinwar is not there anymore . Assad is not there anymore , " he said . " We want to live in peace in our region ... wow , we must , all of us , build the new Lebanon and the new Syria , and even in Gaza . " Israeli Consul General to New York Ofir Akunis is seen speaking at The Jerusalem Post Miami Summit , on December 10 , 2024. ( credit : Elliot La-Mer - DEMAGIC ) <h> A message to Erdogan <p> Turning the focus to the American Jewish community he oversees in his role as consul general , Akunis said now is the time to focus on educating the next generation about Jewish roots in Zionism and that " Israel is the wonder of the new era in the world . " 
@@118787024 <h> Israeli strike in Gaza kills 25 people as US makes new push for a ceasefire <p> Palestinians check the damage in an area targeted by an Israeli air strike early on Dec. 12 , 2024 near the Nuseirat refugee in the central Gaza Strip , amid the continuing war between Israel and Hamas.EYAD BABA/AFP via Getty Images <p> DEIR AL-BALAH , Gaza Strip ( AP ) -- An Israeli airstrike hit the central Gaza Strip on Thursday , killing at least 25 Palestinians and wounding dozens more , Palestinian medics said , as President Biden 's two top national security officials were in the region making a renewed push for an Israel-Hamas ceasefire . <p> The strike on a multistory residential building in the Nuseirat refugee camp was just the latest in a series of Israeli attacks throughout Gaza that killed at least 54 Palestinians since late Wednesday night . <p> Palestinian officials at two of Gaza 's remaining medical centers , Al-Awda Hospital in the north and Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital in the center , reported together receiving 25 bodies from the Nuseirat strike -- which also wounded 40 people , most of them children . <p> There was no immediate comment from the Israeli military on the deadly strike . Israel is trying to eliminate Hamas , which led the attack on southern Israel in October 2023 that sparked the war in Gaza . The Israeli military says Hamas militants hide among Gaza 's civilian population . <p> The U.N . General Assembly 's member nations approved a new resolution this week demanding an immediate ceasefire in Gaza . General Assembly resolutions are not legally binding , although they do reflect world opinion -- the vote Wednesday was 158-9 , with 13 abstentions . <p> Advertisement <h> Israel strikes all across Gaza <p> Photos from the scene in Nuseirat sent to journalists showed a completely collapsed building with people walking through its mangled and charred remains , smoke rising from piles of belongings strewn over the rubble . Palestinian rescuers were searching for more bodies trapped beneath the rubble . <p> The strikes Thursday evening came as Palestinian medics were still surveying the morning 's deadly toll of fierce Israeli attacks , including on Nuseirat camp . Palestinian medical officials had reported at least 28 people killed earlier in the day , including seven children and a woman . One of the strikes flatted a house in Nuseirat , according to Al-Aqsa Hospital in the nearby city of Deir al-Balah , where the bodies were taken . <p> Two other strikes killed 15 men who were part of local aid coordination committees set up by displaced Palestinians and the Hamas-run Interior Ministry , according to health officials at Nasser Hospital in the southern city of Khan Younis . Eight of the men were killed in an attack near the southern border town of Rafah and the remaining seven were killed by a strike in Khan Younis . <p> Advertisement <p> The committees aim to establish secure aid convoys , which often face challenges such as looting , hoarding and profiteering in their efforts to deliver humanitarian supplies to Palestinians facing the risk of famine . <p> Israel says it allows enough aid to enter and blames U.N . agencies for not distributing it . The U.N . says Israeli restrictions , and the breakdown of law and order after Israel repeatedly targeted the Hamas-run police force , make it extremely difficult to operate in the territory . <p> In Gaza 's isolated and devastated north , Awda Hospital said an orthopedic doctor , Saeed Jouda , was shot in the head and killed Thursday morning . The Health Ministry said the doctor was killed by an armed quadcopter drone as he was traveling from Kamal Adwan Hospital to treat patients at Awda Hospital . <p> The two medical facilities are in northern towns where Israel has waged a blistering offensive against Hamas militants since early October , allowing in almost no humanitarian aid and ordering tens of thousands to flee to nearby Gaza City . Experts have warned that the north may be experiencing famine . <h> Biden administration makes final push for a Gaza ceasefire <p> The latest bombardment came as Jake Sullivan , the White House national security adviser , was holding official meetings in Israel as signs emerge that long-stalled negotiations between Israel and Hamas could regain momentum . On Thursday , Sullivan revived hopes for a deal , telling reporters in Jerusalem that Israel 's ceasefire in Lebanon has helped clear the way for another deal to end the war in Gaza . <p> Sullivan plans to travel next to Qatar and Egypt , key mediators in the ceasefire talks , as the Biden administration makes a final push on negotiations before Donald Trump is inaugurated . <p> Advertisement <p> Sullivan said " Hamas ' posture at the negotiating table did adapt " after Israel decimated the leadership of its ally Hezbollah in Lebanon and reached a ceasefire there . " We believe it puts us in a position to close this negotiation , " he said . <p> Last month , the US vetoes a Security Council resolution demanding an immediate Gaza ceasefire , objecting that the resolution did not link the truce to an immediate release of hostages taken by Hamas . The council 's 14 other members supported the resolution . <p> The war in Gaza began when Hamas-led militants attacked southern Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and abducting around 250 people . Some 100 hostages are still inside Gaza , at least a third of whom are believed to be dead . <p> Israel 's offensive has killed over 44,800 Palestinians in Gaza , more than half of them women and children , according to the Gaza Health Ministry , which does not say how many were combatants . The Israeli military says it has killed over 17,000 militants , without providing evidence . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu faces an international arrest warrant for alleged war crimes in the war in Gaza . The International Criminal Court found there were reasonable grounds to believe that Netanyahu and his former defense minister bear responsibility for the war crime of starvation and the crimes against humanity of murder , persecution and other inhumane acts . 
@@118787323 <h> Read the Full Transcript of Donald Trump 's 2024 Person of the Year Interview With TIME <p> President-elect Donald Trump , TIME 's 2024 Person of the Year , sat down for a wide-ranging interview at his Mar-a-Lago Club in Palm Beach , Fla. , on Nov. 25 . <p> Over the course of the interview , Trump discussed his election victory , the economy , and the situations in Ukraine and the Middle East . He also spoke about his plans for a second term , including deporting millions of migrants and pardoning Jan. 6 defendants , as well as the future of the MAGA movement . <p> TIME : You had an extraordinary year . You lived it and you know it . You cleared the field in the Republican campaign . You spent part of your campaign in a courtroom . You were almost shot to death on the trail . Your opponent dropped out , and then you won the swing states , which many people did not expect . What 's one thing that we should know about your experience this year that we do n't know ? <p> TRUMP : Well , I think we ran a flawless campaign . It was , it was really quite something . I called it 72 Days of Fury . There were no days off . There were no timeouts . If you made a mistake , it would be magnified at levels that nobody 's ever seen before . So you could n't make a mistake . And I think we just really ran well . It was a drive to go through it . It started 72 days out . For some reason , it just seemed to be it . And I worked very hard . I 've been , I 've been given credit by , actually , the reporters that followed me , because it was , you know , just , it just was all the time , every day , and we said the right things . We said things that were on the minds of the country . I think the Democrats did n't get it . They just kept going back to the same old nonsense . And it was nonsense , especially in where we are right now . And we hit -- we hit something that was very special . We hit the nerve of the country . They do n't want to see jails emptied out into our country . They do n't want to see people from mental institutions being dismissed from their institutions . <p> Mr. President , what did the Democrats not get ? You just said " they did n't get it . " What did you mean by that ? <p> I do n't think they got the feel of the country . The country was angry because of immigration , because of the people , you know , millions and millions of people . I was saying it could be 21 million people . They were saying a much lesser number , but it was n't a much lesser number . But even if it was , it was irrelevant , because it was -- they were allowing anybody to come into our country . They are right now . They opened it up again . You see what 's going on ? They 're coming . They 're pouring up through Mexico and other places . And they were n't using common sense . I said , We 've become the party of common sense . As an example , they really do n't want to see men playing in women 's sports . You can have a -- and this is one : They do n't want to see , as another example , open borders . They want to see people come in . Everyone 's okay with it , and I am certainly . I want to have a lot of people coming , because we 're going to , we 're going to bring back a lot of jobs . We 'll bring record numbers of jobs , and we 'll do it through good taxing policy , and , you know , using some basic business intelligence . But we 're going to bring back record jobs . Record companies are going to come into our country . They 're not going to be able to be able to steal our companies anymore . And I talked about that , but I differed , maybe , perhaps , from you people , I thought the economy was a big factor , especially the real economy , which is the economy of going out and buying groceries or buying a car or buying a house , which was , you know , between interest rates and between costs -- as an example , the cost of a house is -- a big chunk of the cost of the house is just the approval process and the regulations . <p> The economy was certainly a big factor in your victory -- <p> But what was a bigger factor , I believe , was the border . I think the border and , you know , I won it in 2016 on the border , and I fixed the border , and it was really fixed , and they came in and they just dislodged everything that I did , and it became far worse than it was in 2016 -- <p> I want to come back to immigration a little bit later . Let 's start out on what 's happening right now . You were elected on a promise to change Washington . By all accounts , the fight over that has already begun . One of your nominees was effectively blocked by the Senate . There are other senators who have expressed doubts about some of your other nominees . What are you going to do if the Senate continues to balk at your choices for these key cabinet positions ? <p> Well , I do n't think they will . And he was n't blocked . I had the votes if I needed them , but I had to work very hard . And you know , I 'm not -- there were numerous hard no 's , all of whom agreed with me to do it . <p> So you decided to give up on Gaetz ? <p> No , I did n't give up on him . I talked to him , and I said , you know , Matt , I do n't think this is worth the fight . I had the -- he was there when I convinced five people to go that were hard no 's , but we want to speak to the President . And the beauty is that we won by so much . The mandate was massive . Somebody had 129 years in terms of the overall mandate . That 's a lot of years , but people respected that . As an example , many places were thinking that they could go down and they could riot , make trouble , protest , on the election night . You know what happened ? When the numbers started coming in , everyone just left . They left . I mean , you see signs of it , Washington , DC , where people were gathered . <p> Did I hear you say that you met in person with Gaetz and the five hard-no Senators ? <p> Not with the senators there . No , I called the senators , and my relationship with the Senate is very good . Many of them I endorsed . Many of them I got elected . If I did n't get involved in those races , those Senators would have lost . We would n't have the majority . <p> Mr. President , will you use recess appointments to fill vacancies if you ca n't get them through ? <p> I really do n't care how they get them approved , as long as they get them approved . <p> So you might do it ? <p> It 's up to the Senate . But I think I have a very good relationship with Senator Thune and the others , all of them . I think almost , almost everybody , many of them I was very instrumental in getting , if not this season , last season , the season before that , I would say more than half . <p> Will you commit to honoring the Senate 's authority to reject or confirm your nominees ? <p> Well , sure , I want them to do that . I think -- I do n't think there are too many . I do n't think that -- look , everybody has , that 's why they have menus in restaurants . You have different choices . Some people love certain candidates . I 'll tell you , I put up some that I thought would be a little more controversial , and they turned out not to be necessarily the ones that are controversial . <p> One of them who is controversial , who I just want to ask you a quick question about , is RFK Jr , who is a noted vaccine skeptic . If he moves to end childhood vaccination programs , would you sign off on that ? <p> No , I 'm going to be listening to Bobby , who I 've really gotten along with great and I have a lot of respect for having to do with food , having to do with vaccinations . He does not disagree with vaccinations , all vaccinations . He disagrees probably with some . But we 'll have it . We 're going to do what 's good for the country . <p> So that could include getting rid of some vaccinations ? <p> It could if I think it 's dangerous , if I think they are not beneficial , but I do n't think it 's going to be very controversial in the end . <p> Do you agree with him about the connection between vaccines and autism ? <p> I want to see the numbers . It 's going to be the numbers . We will be able to do -- I think you 're going to feel very good about it at the end . We 're going to be able to do very serious testing , and we 'll see the numbers . A lot of people think a lot of different things . And at the end of the studies that we 're doing , and we 're going all out , we 're going to know what 's good and what 's not good . We will know for sure what 's good and what 's not good . <p> Mr. President , some foreign officials have expressed concern about sharing intelligence with Tulsi Gabbard , given her positions in support of Russia and Syria . Would her confirmation be worth the price of some of our allies not sharing intelligence with us ? <p> I 'm surprised to hear it , because I think she 's , like , a really great American . Hey , look , they said I was friendly with Russia until they saw the tapes , and then they said , you know , he 's not actually . He was the one that ended the Russian pipeline , Nord Stream 2 . He was the one that put all the sanctions on Russia . And I get along with Russia . I get along with a lot of people that people would think I would n't get along with , but we get our way because I 'm for this country , I 'm not for other countries . By the way , do you want hors d'Oevres or anything ? <p> No , that 's generous , thank you . <p> You sure ? <p> Yes , but thank you . If you learn that foreign officials are withholding intelligence because she is the head of your intelligence , would that change your calculus ? <p> I do n't know . I 'm surprised to hear it . I heard that the first time the other day . I mean , I think she 's a great American . I think she 's a person with tremendous common sense . I 've watched her for years , and she has nothing to do with Russia . This is another , you know , a mini Russia , Russia , Russia scam . I think probably , if that 's what 's happening . No , I do n't see it . Certainly , if something can be shown to me . <p> During the campaign , you disavowed Project 2025 , but so far at least five people you 've appointed to top positions in your cabinet have ties to it . Does n't that undermine what you told Americans on the campaign trail ? <p> No look , I do n't -- I do n't disagree with everything in Project 2025 , but I disagree with some things . I specifically did n't want to read it because it was n't under my auspices , and I wanted to be able to say that , you know , the only way I can say I have nothing to do with it is if you do n't read it . I do n't want -- I did n't want to read it . I read enough about it . They have some things that are very conservative and very good . They have other things that I do n't like . I wo n't go into individual items , but I had nothing to do with Project 2025 . Now , if we had a few people that were involved , they had hundreds of them . This is a big document , from what I understand . <p> More than 800 pages . <p> It 's a lot of pages . That 's a lot of pages . I thought it was inappropriate that they came out with it just before the election , to be honest with you . <p> Really ? <p> I let them know , yeah , I did n't think it was appropriate , because it 's not me . Why would they do that ? They complicated my election by doing it because people tried to tie me and I did n't agree with everything in there , and some things I vehemently disagreed with , and I thought it was inappropriate that they would come out with a document like that prior to my election . <p> Did you express those frustrations with them ? <p> Oh I did . It was n't a frustration , it was a fact . It 's totally inappropriate . They come up with an 800-page document , and the enemy , which is , you know , the other party , is allowed to go through and pick out two items , 12 items out of , you know , 800 . No , I thought it was an open -- I thought it was a very foolish thing for them to do . <p> I understand , sir . <p> These are people that would like to see me win . And yet , they came out with this document , and they had some pretty ridiculous things in there . They also had some very good things in there . <p> I understand , sir . Let 's shift to a topic that I know you care quite a bit about : immigration . You recently said on Truth Social that you plan to use the military to deport migrants . The Posse Comitatus Act prohibits the use of the military for domestic law enforcement . What will you do if the military does not or refuses to carry out your orders ? <p> Well , it does n't , it does n't stop the military if it 's an invasion of our country , and I consider it an invasion of our country . We have criminals coming into our countries that we 've never seen , we 've never seen before . We have people coming in at levels and at record numbers that we 've never seen before . And I 'll only do what the law allows , but I will go up to the maximum level of what the law allows . And I think in many cases , the sheriffs and law enforcement is going to need help . We 'll also get National Guard . We 'll get National Guard , and we 'll go as far as I 'm allowed to go , according to the laws of our country . <p> If you ca n't negotiate agreements with the receiving governments , and none seem receptive , will you of necessity have to hold these detained migrants in camps ? <p> I 'll get them into every country , I 'll get them into every country , or we wo n't do business with those countries . <p> So you 're saying there wo n't be new camps , more camps to hold detained migrants ? <p> Well , there might be . Whatever it takes to get them out . I do n't care . Honestly , whatever it takes to get them out . Again , I 'll do it absolutely within the confines of the law , but if it needs new camps , but I hope we 're not going to need too many because I want to get them out , and I do n't want them sitting in camp for the next 20 years . I want them out , and the countries have got to take them back , and if they do n't take them back , we wo n't do business with those countries , and we will tariff those countries very substantially . When they send products in , they will have substantial tariffs , and it 's going to make it very hard for them to do business with us . <p> A question on the minds of a lot of Americans : Will you restore your policy of separating families ? <p> Many of the people who voted for you , as you mentioned a moment ago , cited high prices , particularly of food and groceries . If you deport millions of migrant agricultural workers , wo n't the price of food rise sharply ? <p> No , because we 're going to let people in , but we have to let them in legally . We do n't want people to come in from jails . We do n't want the jails of Venezuela and many other countries , and not just South American countries . We do n't want the jails to be opened up into our country . We 're not accepting their prisoners . We 're not accepting their murders . We 're not accepting their people from mental institutions . We 're not doing it . <p> Your transition co-chair Howard Lutnick said your appointees would be vetted for loyalty . Are you going to ask your appointees to take a loyalty pledge ? <p> I do n't think I 'll have to . I think I will know who -- I mean , look , all you can do is feel comfortable with people . There 's always disloyal people , and every President 's had them . I 've had them , and every President has had them . But no , I think , I think I will be able to , for the most part , determine who 's loyal . I want them to be loyal as to policy , as to the country . It 's got ta be loyal . <p> If they do n't follow your orders , will you fire them ? <p> If I think it 's appropriate , I 'd fire them . <p> Does that go for civil servants as well , Mr. President , who work in the executive branch but are n't appointees ? <p> Well , it depends . We have some interesting things happening in rules and regulations , but we 're going to see . But sure , if I 'm allowed to do that , I would do that . If they 're not following my policies , absolutely . <p> You 've put Elon Musk in charge of DOGE , giving him the power to -- <p> Along with -- <p> Along with Vivek Ramaswamy , yes , absolutely . But on Musk specifically , giving him the power to oversee the agencies that regulate his companies . Is n't that a conflict of interest ? <p> I do n't think so . Look , we have a country that is bloated with rules , regulations and with , frankly , people that are unnecessary to do . We are going to need a lot of people in a lot of other jobs . We 're looking to get people into private sector jobs where they can do better and be more productive . We 're going to see what happens . We have some interesting months coming up , at the beginning . We 're going to see what happens . But this country is bloated . <p> I think everybody agrees that there 's waste in the federal government -- <p> Waste , fraud , and abuse . <p> But Elon Musk is talking about cuts that would directly affect NASA , which would then directly affect SpaceX , his company . Is n't that the textbook definition of a conflict of interest ? <p> I think that Elon puts the country long before his company . I mean , he 's in a lot of companies , but he really is , and I 've seen it . He considers this to be his most important project , and he wanted to do it . And , you know , I think , I think he 's one of the very few people that would have the credibility to do it , but he puts the country before , and I 've seen it , before he puts his company . <p> Well , ultimately , Congress controls spending . Would you veto a budget or appropriations that does not comply with the Musk-Ramaswamy Commission , DOGE ? <p> I might . But there are many things you can do without Congress . When it comes to cutting , harder to get , but to cut , you can do a lot of things without Congress . <p> What do you plan to do ? <p> I mean , I 'll give you an example . We want to move the schools back to the states . We want to , you know , we 're at the bottom of every list in terms of education , and we 're at the top of the list in terms of the cost per pupil , and we want to move them back to the states , and we 'll spend half the money on a much better product . We 'll get -- I believe we can compete with Norway and Denmark and Finland and other countries . And I will tell you , China is right at the top of the list too . Most lists . <p> What does moving back to the states mean ? Does that mean closing the Education Department ? <p> A virtual closure of Department of Education in Washington . <p> Virtual closure ? <p> Well , you 're going to need some people just to make sure they 're teaching English in the schools . Okay , you know English and mathematics , let 's say . But we want to move education back to the states . If you look at the states , if you look at some of the individual countries , Norway is a very strong educational country , but many . I think Iowa , and I think Indiana , and a lot of these states that are well-run states . We have a lot of them that are very well run . When they run their own educational program , I think it 's going to , I think they 'll be able to compete with anybody . Then you 're going to have the badly run states , like a guy like Gavin Newscum sic in California , where he does a poor job , and he 'll , but even in California , you 'll give it to Riverside . You 'll give it , you know , you 'll give it to areas of California where I think they 'll run a great school program . <p> Last question on your transition , why have you declined to sign the ethics agreement as part of -- <p> I do n't know anything about it . <p> The ethics document . <p> I do n't know . I would sign an ethics document . <p> Will you disclose who the donors are to your transition ? <p> To my campaign ? <p> No -- to paying for the transition . <p> Taylor Budowich : There will be an announcement on that this week . <p> I really , I have no problem disclosing anything . <p> That 's great , Mr. President . <p> Just so you know . I had heard this a couple of days ago . I have no problem . I 'd rather disclose it right up front . I have no problem with it . <p> I 've got a question for you about the campaign . Was there a moment when you thought you might lose ? <p> I like not to think of that . The power of positive thinking , right ? But there were some moments when , you know , there was , there was some bad things done in the campaign . There were a lot of fake polls . They were absolutely fake . Look at an example , a very good pollster was in Iowa , and I thought I was winning at the end . But it was n't like she was a bad -- she was great . For years , she was the best . She was the gold standard in Iowa . And then a couple of weeks before the election , she had me up four , and that brought it down way below the 18 or 19 that we thought we were , we were up with 18 or 19 points , which is , you know what I get , the farmers like me , but she did it in gradual steps . She did it up four . That was a big story , because I was only up four and then she did where I was down three , and that became headlines all over the place just before the election . <p> By the way , I 'm just using that as an example . I did n't think I was going to lose . I thought it was a dishonest poll , and we 're going to probably prove that because , you know , we 're taking people to court because we think , I think , we have an obligation to . When 60 minutes interviews my opponent , and that 's a news program , that 's their most important news program , and she gave a really horrible answer . That was a bad answer . And they took that answer and replaced it , and this is her speaking , and they replaced it with another answer from a half an hour later in the interview that had nothing to do , but it was a much better answer . That 's really dishonest . <p> Speaking of Kamala Harris . What do you think were her worst mistakes in the campaign ? <p> Taking the assignment . Number one , because you have to know what you 're good at . <p> Did she make any tactical mistakes you think that cost her ? <p> I think that when she would n't talk to anybody , it shone a light on her . In other words , if she would have gone out and just did interviews where they 're comparable to Steve , if there is anybody comparable , would say , could you do an interview here ? An interview there ? You know , she did n't do anything . And people said , Is there something wrong with her ? Why would they ? I mean , I 'm doing this interview with you . I did interviews with , if I had the time , anybody that would ask , I 'd do interviews . I think the Joe Rogan interview , you know , that went on for almost three and a half hours . <p> I watched the whole thing , sir , yes . <p> Oh good , I hope you liked it . But I found it to be a pleasure to do it , you know . He was an interesting guy . I wish I could have even done it longer . I had a rally that I was two and a half hours late for in Michigan . It was very cold . And , you know , we did n't lose anybody . But I explained to him , Listen , I just did an interview . We got to win this thing and -- but I was two and a half hours late . I did n't know it was going to be three . I thought it was going to be an hour or something . <p> You had to wrap it up at the end . <p> I had to say , listen , I have a rally where you have thousands of people that are standing . I think one of the big advantages I had is the rallies . I think , you know , nobody else gets the people we had . We had the biggest rallies . Nobody 's ever seen rallies like that , and they were enthusiastic rallies . And when you see that , and then somebody else comes to town the following day , and they have a few hundred people , you would say , you have a big advantage . But , but it 's an interesting question when you ask about her . I think they made a big tactical mistake by literally not talking to the press , even if a really friendly , I mean , and they had almost all friendly , somebody would come up with a really friendly -- like you guys , maybe -- but a friendly interview , and they turned everybody down . They would n't do the basic . And people , including me , would start to say , is there something wrong with her ? What 's wrong ? Why would n't you do some basic interviews ? And then she had some pretty failed interviews , and maybe it was highlighted more than it would . In other words , if she did those same interviews , but she did another 15 interviews , you know , you would n't have really noticed it that much . <p> The bad ones would have been drained out . <p> She put so much emphasis on interviews . Somebody thought there was something wrong , and I do n't think she ever recovered from that . <p> I 'm going to shift to foreign policy . Have you spoken to Vladimir Putin since your election ? <p> I ca n't tell you . I ca n't tell you . It 's just inappropriate . <p> If Ukraine does n't agree to a peace deal that you have said you will broker , will you cut military , humanitarian , and intelligence assistance to them ? <p> The reason that I do n't like to tell you this is that , as a negotiator , when I sit down and talk to some very brilliant young people : young , young , young , young . Compared to me , you 're very young . But when I talk to people -- when I start I think I have a very good plan to help , but when I start exposing that plan , it becomes almost a worthless plan . <p> Will you commit to protecting Ukrainian sovereignty , though , from Russia ? <p> I would like to see Ukraine -- okay , ready ? You have to go back a little bit further . It would have never happened if I were president . Would have never happened -- <p> But it has happened . So the question people want to know is , Would you abandon Ukraine ? <p> It makes it so bad . And I had a meeting recently with a group of people from the government , where they come in and brief me , and I 'm not speaking out of turn , the numbers of dead soldiers that have been killed in the last month are numbers that are staggering , both Russians and Ukrainians , and the amounts are fairly equal . You know , I know they like to say they were n't , but they 're fairly equal , but the numbers of dead young soldiers lying on fields all over the place are staggering . It 's crazy what 's taking place . It 's crazy . I disagree very vehemently with sending missiles hundreds of miles into Russia . Why are we doing that ? We 're just escalating this war and making it worse . That should not have been allowed to be done . Now they 're doing not only missiles , but they 're doing other types of weapons . And I think that 's a very big mistake , very big mistake . But the level , the number of people dying is number one , not sustainable , and I 'm talking on both sides . It 's really an advantage to both sides to get this thing done . <p> The question that many Americans and many people around the world have is , Will you abandon Ukraine ? <p> I want to reach an agreement , and the only way you 're going to reach an agreement is not to abandon . You understand what that means , right ? <p> Right . Well , no , tell me . <p> Well , I just said it . You ca n't reach an agreement if you abandon , in my opinion . And I disagree with the whole thing , because it should have never happened . Putin would have never invaded Ukraine if I were president for numerous reasons . Number one , they drove up the oil price . When they drove up the oil price , they made it a profit-making situation for him , the oil price should have been driven down . If it was driven down , you would n't have had it would n't have started just for pure economic reasons . But when it hits $80 , $85 , and $90 a barrel . I mean , he made , he made a lot of money . I 'm not saying it 's a good thing , because he 's also suffered , but they are moving forward . You know , this is a war that 's been -- this is a tragedy . This is death that 's far greater than anyone knows . When the real numbers come out , you 're going to see numbers that you 're not going to believe . <p> Well , another war with a high death toll is happening in the Middle East . You reportedly told Prime Minister Netanyahu that you wanted him to end the war in Gaza before you took office . What did he say ? <p> I think that , before I talk about that , I think that the Middle East is an easier problem to handle than what 's happening with Russia and Ukraine . Okay , I just want to say that up front . The Middle East is going to get solved . The Middle East has been -- it 's a horrible thing . October 7 was a horrible thing . Everyone is forgetting conveniently about October 7 , but that was a horrible day for the world , not for Israel , for the world . And I think the Middle East is going to get -- as we speak , things are happening very productively on the Middle East . I think the Middle East is going to get solved . I think it 's more complicated than the Russia-Ukraine , but I think it 's , it 's , it 's easier to solve . <p> Did Netanyahu give you assurances about when he would end the war ? <p> Um , I do n't want to say that , but I think he feels confident that -- I think he feels very confident in me , and I think he knows I want it to end . I want everything to end . I want , I do n't want people killed , you know ? I do n't want people from either side killed , and that includes whether it 's Russia , Ukraine , or whether it 's the Palestinians and the Israelis and all of the , you know , the different entities that we have in the Middle East . There 's so many different entities . But I do n't want people killed . <p> When you say productive things are happening , can you be more specific ? <p> No , I ca n't . I mean , I 'd love to be , I would so love to be , but I ca n't . I will be . We 're going to sit down in a period of time , hopefully soon , and I 'll tell you all the things that are happening . But there are some very productive things happening . I do think -- okay , because I 'm looking at two , two primary fronts , right ? You have the Russia-Ukraine , and you have this , and there are other problems also . But look , when North Korea gets involved , that 's another element that 's a very complicating factor . And I know Kim Jong Un , I get along very well with Kim Jong Un . I 'm probably the only one he 's ever really dealt with . When you think about it , I am the only one he 's ever dealt with . But you have a lot of very bad complicating factors there , but we 'll sit down and we 'll at the end of each of these , or both , maybe simultaneously , we 'll sit down and I 'll show you what a good job I did . <p> You mentioned the Palestinian people . In your first term , your administration put forward the most comprehensive plan for a two-state solution in a long time . Do you still support that plan ? <p> I support a plan of peace , and it can take different forms . When I did the Abraham Accords , that should have been loaded up with people , you know . I made a statement . I think they did n't add one country . Think of it . They did n't add one country to the Abraham Accords . We had the four countries , very important countries , but that should have been loaded up with Middle Eastern countries . <p> Do you still support a two-state solution ? <p> I support whatever solution we can do to get peace . There are other ideas other than two state , but I support whatever , whatever is necessary to get not just peace , a lasting peace . It ca n't go on where every five years you end up in tragedy . There are other alternatives . <p> Your incoming ambassador to Israel , Mike Huckabee , supports the settlement movement and Israel annexing the West Bank . The real question at the heart of this , sir , is , do you want to get a two-state deal done , outlined in your Peace to Prosperity deal that you put forward , or are you willing to let Israel annex the West Bank ? <p> So what I want is a deal where there 's going to be peace and where the killing stops . <p> Would you tell Israel -- Bibi tried last time and you stopped him . Would you do it again this time ? <p> We 'll see what happens . Yeah , I did . I stopped him . But we 'll see what happens . October 7 was a very terrible day . You know , October 7 . People are forgetting about it . They do n't ever mention . It was a tragic day . The other thing that 's happening are the hostages , where are the hostages , why are n't they back ? Well , they could be gone . They could be gone . I think Hamas is probably saying , Wow , the hostages are gone . That 's what they want . <p> So there 's a scenario where you would allow Israel to annex the West Bank ? <p> I will -- what I 'm doing and what I 'm saying again , I 'll say it again , I want a long lasting peace . I 'm not saying that 's a very likely scenario , but I want a long lasting peace , a peace where we do n't have an October 7 in another three years . And there are numerous ways you can do it . You can do it two state , but there are numerous ways it can be done . And I 'd like to see , who can be happy ? But I 'd like to see everybody be happy . Everybody go about their lives , and people stop from dying . That includes on many different fronts . I mean , we have some tremendous world problems that we did n't have when I was president . You know , when I left , we had , we had an Iran that was not very threatening . They had no money . They were n't giving money to Hamas . They were n't giving money to Hezbollah . <p> Iran recently plotted to have you assassinated . What are the chances of going to war with Iran during your next term ? <p> Anything can happen . Anything can happen . It 's a very volatile situation . I think the most dangerous thing right now is what 's happening , where Zelensky has decided , with the approval of , I assume , the President , to start shooting missiles into Russia . I think that 's a major escalation . I think it 's a foolish decision . But I would imagine people are waiting until I get in before anything happens . I would imagine . I think that would be very smart to do that . <p> Do you trust Netanyahu ? <p> I do n't trust anybody . <p> Can I ask , Did Elon Musk meet with the Iranians at your behest ? <p> I do n't know that he met with them . <p> Reportedly he met with the Iranians . <p> I do n't know . He did n't tell me that . <p> Let 's shift back to some domestic issues . Will you vow that your FDA will not do anything to limit access to medication abortion or abortion pills ? <p> Well , we 're going to take a look at all of that . That 's why I 'm here . We 're going to take a look at all of that . <p> So it 's possible they may ? <p> You 're talking about the abortion pill ? <p> I 'm talking about the abortion pill . FDA approvals -- <p> It 's unlikely , very unlikely . <p> But possible ? If they tried to , would you stop them ? <p> You know my stance from a long campaign . A long and hard campaign . I was against that . I was against that . Strongly against . <p> Can you be specific ? Strongly against ? <p> Strongly against . You 're talking about the abortion pill . <p> You 're against the abortion pill ? <p> No , I was against stopping it . <p> Right . Okay , just to clarify . <p> So I do n't see any reason why it changed , but somebody could come up with something that , you know , this horrible thing . <p> You wo n't rule it out , though ? <p> Look , I 've stated it very clearly and I just stated it again very clearly . I think it would be highly unlikely . I ca n't imagine , but with , you know , we 're looking at everything , but highly unlikely . I guess I could say probably as close to ruling it out as possible , but I do n't want to . I do n't want to do anything now . I want to do it at some point . There will be a time in the future where people are going to know everything about subjects like that , which are very complex subjects for people , because you have other people that , you know , they feel strongly both ways , really strongly both ways , and those are the things that are dividing up the country . But you know my stand from a very long , hard thing , and I think it 's highly unlikely that I ever change that . Is it 100% unlikely that I change or that I stay -- <p> I think what the women of America want to know is , Are you committed to making sure that the FDA does not strip their ability to access abortion pills ? <p> That would be my commitment . Yeah , it 's always been my commitment . <p> Can I shift to the transgender issue ? Obviously , sort of a major issue during the campaign . In 2016 , you said that transgender people could use whatever bathroom they chose . Do you still feel that way ? <p> When was that ? <p> In 2016 . <p> I do n't want to get into the bathroom issue . Because it 's a very small number of people we 're talking about , and it 's ripped apart our country , so they 'll have to settle whatever the law finally agrees . I am a big believer in the Supreme Court , and I 'm going to go by their rulings , and so far , I think their rulings have been rulings that people are going along with , but we 're talking about a very small number of people , and we 're talking about it , and it gets massive coverage , and it 's not a lot of people . <p> But on that note , there 's a big fight on this in Congress now . The incoming trans member from Delaware , Sarah McBride , says we should all be focused on more important issues . Do you agree ? <p> I do agree with that . On that -- absolutely . As I was saying , it 's a small number of people . <p> It was a big issue , though , on the campaign . I mean , one of the ads that your campaign put the most money behind was the : Trump is for us and Harris is for they / them . <p> Well , it 's true , Trump is for us . <p> Right . It obviously strikes a chord . <p> I mean , Trump is definitely for us , okay ? And us is the vast , vast majority of people in this country . And also , I want to have all people treated fairly . You know , forget about majority or not majority . I want people to be treated well and fairly . <p> I 'm going to look at it very closely . We 're looking at it right now . We 're gon na look at it . We 're gon na look at everything . Look , the country is torn apart . We 're gon na look at everything . <p> Do you plan to fire your hand-picked FBI director , Christopher Wray ? <p> I 'll be announcing something in the future . I 'm looking at people , and we 'll make a decision in the not-too-distant future . <p> Are you considering Kash Patel as a replacement ? <p> Yes , I am . One of the people , yeah . <p> Editor 's note : On Nov. 30 , Trump announced he intends to nominate Patel to be FBI director . <p> Have you decided yet whether you 're going to pardon all of the January 6 defendants ? <p> Yes . <p> You 're going to do all of them ? <p> I 'm going to do case-by-case , and if they were non-violent , I think they 've been greatly punished . And the answer is I will be doing that , yeah , I 'm going to look if there 's some that really were out of control . <p> So you will not include those who committed violent acts ? <p> Well , we 're going to look at each individual case , and we 're going to do it very quickly , and it 's going to start in the first hour that I get into office . And a vast majority of them should not be in jail . A vast majority should not be in jail , and they 've suffered gravely . And I say , why is it that in Portland and in many other places , Minneapolis , why is it that nothing happened with them and they actually caused death and destruction at levels not seen before ? So you know , if you take a look at what happened in Seattle , you had people die , you had a lot of death , and nothing happened , and these people have been treated really , really badly . Yeah , it 's an important issue for me . They 've suffered greatly , and in many cases they should not have suffered . <p> We 're sitting here moments after Jack Smith dropped the case against you . Over the course of the campaign , you vowed to or suggested prosecuting a long list of political rivals , whether it 's Joe Biden , Nancy Pelosi , Jack Smith , Alvin Bragg , Adam Schiff , Mark Milley . Did you raise these prosecutions of these people with Pam Bondi ? <p> No . <p> You have n't spoken to her about it ? <p> No . <p> How do you expect her to proceed ? <p> I think she 's going to be fair to everybody . She 's very respected . She 's a very , very smart and even brilliant person . She was a successful at the highest level Attorney General -- <p> Are there going to be investigations of these subjects , of these people ? <p> That 's up to her . That 'll be up to her . <p> Steven Cheung : We 're coming up on 45 minutes . <p> Is there anything positive we can talk about ? <p> Actually we do , but it 's a complicated world . Let 's do some rapid fire questions -- <p> I did win the greatest election that a lot of people say we had in hundreds of years . <p> Well , here 's something we can talk about . The GOP will have full control of Congress . You 're gon na have a governing trifecta after you won . What are your first priorities in Congress ? <p> Well , my first priorities are , I do n't really need Congress for it , frankly , securing the border and drilling for oil . <p> Are you going to push for any major legislation in your first year in office ? <p> Yeah , sure . <p> What will that be ? <p> Well , we have to extend the tax cuts , very importantly . I think it 's a very important thing , but , and our Secretary of Treasury has been really well received , as you see by the stock market , et cetera , but very important , we have to extend the tax cuts . But you know , a lot of the things when , when the Democrats were saying , you know , they need Congress to secure the border . They do n't need Congress . All you have to do is say , I want the border secured . I had the most secure border we 've ever had , and I never had to go to Congress for it . <p> Do you think Clarence Thomas and Samuel Alito should resign in the next two years so you can appoint younger successors ? <p> I think they 're incredible , actually . So that 's up to them , but I think they 're incredible . I think they 've been great justices . <p> Everyone across the political spectrum recognizes the nature of your comeback , the historical nature of comeback , your resilience . What do you understand about the American psyche that your opponents do not ? <p> See , I do n't view it as a comeback . And people have said it was the greatest comeback in political history , and beyond even political history plus . They said , add sports and add everything else . But I do n't view it that way . I think I ran a great campaign . I think I was popular . I think I did a very good job the first term . We got hit by COVID at the end . But even with COVID , we did a very , very good job that people are starting to recognize . But you take a look at those first few years , we 've never had an economy even even close to that . So I do n't , I do n't view it as a comeback . I know it 's considered that . I should allow it to be that , and I will allow it to be that . But , you know , come back from what ? I 've always been here , you know . <p> I think more the point that sort of the question was driving at is , you know , you 've won twice now . <p> Right . <p> You 've realigned both political parties , you 've changed America . There 's got to be something that you understand about winning votes or the American people that your opponents maybe do n't give you credit for . And I guess I 'm curious what that is . <p> It 's , you know , I think people want to lead a good life . I think they want to be able to buy groceries at a reasonable price and not have to turn off their heat in order to buy two apples . I think that , I think that people want security . I do n't think people want to have our borders rushed by -- it 's really an invasion of our country by foreign countries , and not just South America . I mean , these are countries all over the world . It 's really , I think our people want common sense applied to their life , and they do n't want to see a girl be beat up in a boxing ring by a man , as happens . They do n't want to see somebody in a weight lifting contest , a woman against a man . It makes no sense . They do n't want to see , you know , men playing in women 's sports . They do n't . They do n't want to see all of this transgender , which is , it 's just taken over . And then you take a look , and not very many years after the person who went through this process is saying , Who did this to me ? As you know , it 's a very high percentage . I really think that the people of this country have tremendous hearts . They understand and they want common sense applied to their lives . Most of the things I talk about are common sense . They do n't want to see their food prices go up by 57% in a short period of time . And I think that 's why I won . I think -- I think that 's why I won . The Republican Party has become the party of common sense , and it 's so many of the things I mentioned , and other things too . They do n't want to have all electric cars . They might want an electric car . Electric cars are great , but they 're not for everybody . They also want gasoline-powered cars or hybrids or anything else that happens to come out . They do n't want to have a mandate on cars where they 're forced to buy a car that they do n't want . There are so many things . I mean , they 're too innumerable . There 's too many to mention . I could go on all day long giving you crazy , crazy stats -- <p> But your appeal pre-exists a lot of this stuff -- <p> Yeah , Eric , but in the end , they want to see our country run with common sense . They do n't want to be invaded by 100 and 182 at this moment . We 've had during the course of the last three years -- 182 , people do n't realize how many countries there are . There are a lot of countries , 182 is not even close to the number , okay , but we had 182 countries where people invaded our country , essentially invaded our country . We do n't know who they are , we do n't know where they are . We do n't know anything about them . They just walk into our country and they take over . You see what 's happening with the Venezuelan gangs . They 're in all -- they 're in many different states . They 're in like 12 states as of this moment , and they are causing tremendous havoc and violence . People do n't want that . <p> I know that obviously you 're only about to enter office , but I 'm sort of curious about kind of the legacy component . Lindsey Graham says Trump 's policies do n't work without Trump . You said that you believe in some ways that 's true . If that 's the case , how does MAGA endure as a political movement after you leave office in four years ? <p> Well , my policies -- I heard that statement . I thought it was actually a very interesting statement . We can use the same words , but maybe it 's a look in your eye that works . You know , for a country like Mexico , we 're not going to allow Mexico to continue to invade our country by allowing people to be dropped off in Mexico and come into the United States . We 're not going to allow that to happen . And I will say it to Mexico one way , and somebody will say the same thing to Mexico another way , and maybe my way is accepted , and somebody else , with the same words , it 's not accepted . So I sort of agree with him , but there are others that maybe can do it , maybe they ca n't do it as well , but my policies work . I mean , my policies work . We have to be -- what 's happening with the people coming through Mexico and Canada also , you know , we ca n't forget Canada . We have tremendous illegal immigration coming in through Canada . Drugs are coming in through Canada in large numbers . We 're not going to allow that to happen . And I 'll take action against Canada and Mexico . We 're not going to allow this to happen . <p> You have galvanized a social and political movement that has transformed this country . What do you think will happen to the MAGA movement when you leave office or when you are no longer on the scene ? <p> Well , I hope when I leave office , I 'll be able to also leave people that are extremely competent and get it . And we do have those people . We have far more than you think . We have some great warriors . We have some great people that want to see this country take care of -- <p> Do those people include members of your family ? <p> Say it . <p> Do those people include members of your family ? <p> I think , yeah , I have some very competent members of my family . My kids are very competent . I do n't know that they 're going to choose to go through this . They 've been treated very badly . I mean , my son Don has spent hours and hours in front of , essentially , grand juries and Congress over something he never had anything to do with : Russia . He 'd come back and say , " Dad , I have nothing to do with Russia . " He did n't know anything about Russia , and it would turn out to be a hoax . <p> He 's very politically active . <p> He is . <p> Do you think he might have a future in politics ? <p> I think he 'd do well , especially in certain areas . I think he 'd do very well . I think he 's a very capable guy . Eric is very capable , and a very different type . Lara . You look at some of these people . Ivanka would be , if she wanted to be , would be a superstar in politics . I think she , she , she 's a great person . I think she probably , she 's so family-oriented , Ivanka , and I understand that also it makes it more difficult . It makes it definitely more difficult . But , you know , they 're very capable people . Well , they have a name , which seems to be a very good name . <p> Do you think there will be a Trump dynasty ? <p> I think there could be , yeah . I see the people we 're talking about . Lara has been amazing . Look , she was the head of the Republican Party . She 's a young , a young woman , and she was the head of the Republican Party . And look at the job we did . This cheating would have been breathtaking , breathtaking . And we , we , we got it down to a minimum . And they cheat , but we got it down to a minimum . They were very effective . The RNC was very , very effective . <p> What would your father think of your political comeback ? <p> I think he maybe would not call it a comeback . He would have said it 's just Donald . <p> But what would he think of your political career ? <p> Oh , he would have been amazed , yeah . My father would have been amazed , because my father did n't make speeches . He did n't make , you know , it was n't , he probably could have done it well , but it would n't have been his thing . I do n't think it would have been his thing . It 's sort of a combination of both the mother and the father . You needed a lot of energy to do that . You know , I did , I did rallies . We did , what , 12 rallies in three days , and these were full rallies . Because , you know , when people are waiting for two days and three days to get in , you ca n't do -- people say , Well , maybe you keep it down to 25 minutes or 15 minutes . If I ever went up for 15 minutes , they 're waiting for days . You know , they have tents . We had many people that followed the rallies . They followed it and it 'll never happen again . It 's sad in a way . It will never happen again . <p> You get some things from your father . What do you get from your mother ? <p> So my mother was a woman . She was born in Scotland . She had great respect for the queen , Queen Elizabeth . It was a long time . She was there for 75 years . And she liked the pomp and ceremony . She thought it was a good thing , not a bad thing . But she was glamorous and my father was hard nosed . It 's sort of an interesting combination . Maybe there 's a combination . Here we sit in Mar a Lago . Maybe there 's a combination of that . <p> Will the First Lady be joining you at the White House for this term ? <p> Oh yes . She was , she was very , she actually became very active towards the end , as you saw with interviews . And she does -- she does them well . People really watch . She 's very beloved by the people , Melania . And they like the fact that she 's not out there in your face all the time for many reasons . Many political people have that , you know . But she 's , she 's really , they really like her . They really love her . Actually , in many ways , when I make speeches , we love our First Lady . they have signs , we love our First Lady . No , she 'll be -- she 'll be active , when she needs to be , when she needs to be . <p> I 've been keeping a list , Mr. President , of things you mentioned that you intend to do early in your administration . It sounds like a reasonable number of things : turning the Department of Education virtual . <p> Well , virtual , turning it back to the states . <p> J6 pardons . Do you have in mind what the first 24 to 48 hours will look like ? <p> I 'll be looking at J6 early on , maybe the first nine minutes . I 'll be looking at oil prices bringing down , you know , coming down very substantially -- meaning energy , energy costs coming down . And with energy comes everything else . See , they really hurt themselves . It went away from my energy policies , totally . It was going to crash . The numbers were through the roof . And then they went back to them . They said , Okay , just let it be . That was the difference between the energy , what they did on energy , and what they did at the border . At the border , they just opened it up to the world . They did n't stop it . You know , we had Remain in Mexico . We had -- that border was in was in great shape . Not easy to do . But on that one , they just said , open it up . And they did n't change . They just did that . With energy , they opened , you saw what was going on . The energy was going through the roof . And then they said , just go back to Trump 's policy . And they went back . Now the difference is that I would have had three times as much now . They have essentially , sort of , they tried to get to equal but if they did n't do that , you 'd have energy , you 'd have you 'd have inflation that would have been much worse than it is . And it already was probably the worst this country has ever had . We 've had the inflation . They lost on inflation , they lost on immigration , they lost on -- as a part of immigration , I think a very big part is the border , the border itself . You know , if you can self subdivide the word immigration . They lost on the economy . But it was a different kind of -- it was the economy as it pertains to groceries and small things that are actually big things for a family . <p> If the prices of groceries do n't come down , will your presidency be a failure ? <p> I do n't think so . Look , they got them up . I 'd like to bring them down . It 's hard to bring things down once they 're up . You know , it 's very hard . But I think that they will . I think that energy is going to bring them down . I think a better supply chain is going to bring them down . You know , the supply chain is still broken . It 's broken . You see it . You go out to the docks and you see all these containers . And I own property in California , in Palos Verdes . They 're very nice . And I passed the docks , and I 've been doing it for 20 years . I 've never seen anything like it . You know , for 17 years , I saw containers and , you know , they 'd come off and they 'd be taken away -- big areas , you know , you know , in that area , you know , where they have the big , the big ships coming in -- big , the port . And I 'd see this for years as I was out there inspecting property and things , because they own a lot in California . And I look down and I see containers that are , that are 12 , 13 , 14 containers . You would n't believe they can hold each other . It 's like crazy . No , the supply chain is is broken . I think a very bad thing is this , what they 're doing with the cars . I think they lost also because of cars . You know , there are a lot of reasons , but the car mandate is a disaster . The electric , the EV mandate . <p> And does Elon agree with that ? <p> Oh , it 's very interesting . I tell people that Elon is a friend of mine . He 's a great guy . Gave me the best endorsement you could ever have . And here I am talking against the electric car . Think of that . But see , I 'm not really talking against the electric car , because the electric car , I think , is fantastic for some people , for a slice of the audience , but not for 100% and , you know that Elon , a big part of his business is the Tesla , which is a great car , but Elon has never once , it 's actually hard to believe . He 's never once even talked about the subject . He 'll hear me speaking , you know , speaking , " We must stop . I will immediately terminate the mandate . " Because I think he thinks I 'm right . I 'm a big fan of the electric car , but not for everyone . <p> Some people say his competitors benefit from the mandate . He 's got the head start . <p> He makes a great product . <p> But I do think it 's interesting , because when he talks about how he came to be such a full-throated supporter of yours , it 's cultural issues that are core to that . And I think that when you kind of give your taxonomy of the reasons why you won that -- I mean , you did , you mentioned the trans issues , but I feel like it 's one that also was , was integral in a lot of ways , it seemed . <p> So he was not , he was n't a -- <p> No , he described himself like , basically , a moderate Democrat , a centrist , more or less . <p> He was a Democrat . And I think over time -- you know , something happened when I got shot . I got called by people that were n't fans , and they became fans . And I do n't view it as bravery . I view it as whatever it was that it was , you know , but , but something happened , and I think that sped up . I think Elon was getting there , but I think it sped up the process a lot with him and many other people . Mark Zuckerberg -- <p> Budowich : It 's now five a clock . We 've got about 12 meetings left . <p> I 'm curious . You have control of Congress , both houses . Much of your agenda is executive driven . Why ? <p> Um ... <p> You have the power to do things legislatively . <p> Yeah ? <p> So why is so much of your agenda executive driven ? <p> I do n't know what you mean by that . <p> Well , you said lots of what you can do is without -- <p> Oh , like executive orders . <p> Yeah . <p> Well , I think that Congress should have behaved differently when it came to the border . I ended up taking the money . You know , I built , you know , hundreds of miles of wall , but I took it from the military because I considered it an invasion . I got -- look , I passed the biggest tax cuts ever , bigger than the Reagan tax cuts . I passed a lot of things in Congress , but I also did a lot of executive orders . I think that this Congress is going to be a better Congress for me . I did n't get along with Paul Ryan . I did n't like him . I did n't respect him . I did n't get along with Mitch McConnell , and I thought it was -- I thought some of the things that he did were terrible . The way he was handing out money for the Green New Deal was just terrible . I do get along with , I mean , it 's a new relationship , essentially , because we did n't really know each other very well . But I do get along with Sen. Thune . I do get along with Mike Johnson . I think , you know , Mike is doing a really good job . Both of them are doing a good job . If I have , if I have even a little bit of trouble , I go to an executive order because I can get it done . And some of the things I did as an executive order , I had them approved then later on through Congress . In other words , I 'd get it done now and get it -- look , the great thing about an executive order is you can do it , get it done immediately . The bad thing , or the good thing , depending on where you 're coming from , is you can undo it . Look , I can undo almost everything Biden did , he through executive order . And on day one , much of that will be undone . <p> Do you support ending the filibuster ? <p> I want to leave the Supreme Court the way it is , most importantly . The filibuster is a mechanism that you 're not going to totally overturn every single thing that was ever done . You know , it makes it very difficult in the Senate . It makes it very , very difficult to overturn things . Now , in one way , that 's good . In another way , maybe you 'd say it 's bad . But you know , some of the things -- I have great respect for Manchin and for Sinema , for the fact that they really held out . Look , she lost her career because of it . And you could say he maybe lost his career because of it . Actually , he became hotter because of it . And then he made the mistake of going for the Inflation Creation Act -- which is my nickname , by the way , for the Inflation Reduction Act . Had he not gone for that because he was very popular . But no , I -- and I think we have to do , we have . Our Supreme Court was under siege , and perhaps it still is , but now they do n't have , now the other side does n't have the power to do . I mean , I 've heard as many as 25 justices , and they were all psyched . They were going to do a number on our Supreme Court that now it 's not going to happen . <p> Cheung : Let me just interject here . But we 've got to make this the last question . <p> So I have respect for the filibuster . <p> You 'd want to keep it in place ? <p> Yes . <p> I want to go back to that moment you talked about , Mr. President , how people changed when you were shot . I 'm curious how you changed . <p> I try not to think about it . That was a big moment . It was a big moment . I had a big crowd . We had 55,000 people RSVPed . We had 107,000 when we had the memorial a few weeks later , but we had a few months later actually . When you think , late October , yeah . We had , I think it was a very big moment . I think a lot of people changed with that moment . I think a lot of people became much more religious in that moment . <p> Is that true of you ? <p> I think I have family members that became more of a believer than they would have been . A lot of people , a lot of people change . That was -- that was a horrible day , it was a horrible moment in our country , but I think it , it did change a lot of a lot of minds . 
@@118791125 <h> Top Stories <h> Donald Trump Is TIME 's 2024 Person of the Year <p> Eric Cortellessa <p> Thu , December 12 , 2024 at 3:52 PM UTC <p> 29 min read <p> Mar-a-Lago was quiet three days before Thanksgiving . Donald Trump 's Moorish palace seemed all but deserted late that morning , the seaside estate 's cavernous living room traversed intermittently by a junior staffer or silent aide . Totems to Trump were displayed everywhere . Framed magazines with him on the cover hung by the front door . On a table near the fireplace sat a cast-bronze eagle awarded him by the singer Lee Greenwood . In the men 's lavatory , a picture of him with Arnold Palmer hung near the urinals . Adorning a wall in the library bar , a painting titled The Visionary depicted Trump in a tennis sweater , trim and youthful . The empty rooms felt less like a millionaire members ' club than a museum . <p> By midafternoon , the President-elect 's imminent arrival had stirred signs of life . Discreetly placed speakers offered up selections from Trump 's personally curated 2,000-song playlist . A handful of transition honchos and soon-to-be Administration officials arrived , perching on overstuffed sofas and huddling in corners . Incoming chief of staff Susie Wiles conferred with Trump 's designated National Security Adviser , Mike Waltz . Vice President -- elect J.D. Vance strode in with a retinue of staffers . An aide posted up near a window overlooking the patio , setting down Trump 's personal cell phone , which lit up occasionally with calls and texts from favored media personalities and Cabinet picks . You could sense Trump before you could see him , the small group of senior aides rising to their feet in anticipation . <p> The world 's most powerful man entered with an air of unhurried bonhomie . Dressed in his trademark navy suit and red tie , Trump , 78 , appeared a little older than he had some seven months earlier , when he last met with TIME -- more subdued , less verbose , the same discursive speech patterns but with the volume turned down . Sitting under bright lights for a 30-minute photo session ahead of a 65-minute interview , he 's asked to explain the bruising on his right hand . " It 's from shaking hands with thousands of people , " he says . <p> The President-elect , pictured at Mar-a-Lago on Nov. 25Platon for TIME <p> Trump 's political rebirth is unparalleled in American history . His first term ended in disgrace , with his attempts to overturn the 2020 election results culminating in the attack on the U.S. Capitol . He was shunned by most party officials when he announced his candidacy in late 2022 amid multiple criminal investigations . Little more than a year later , Trump cleared the Republican field , clinching one of the fastest contested presidential primaries in history . He spent six weeks during the general election in a New York City courtroom , the first former President to be convicted of a crime -- a fact that did little to dampen his support . An assassin 's bullet missed his skull by less than an inch at a rally in Butler , Pa. , in July . Over the next four months , he beat not one but two Democratic opponents , swept all seven swing states , and became the first Republican to win the popular vote in 20 years . He has realigned American politics , remaking the GOP and leaving Democrats reckoning with what went awry . <p> Trump has a ready explanation for his improbable resurrection . He even has a name for its climactic final act . " I called it 72 Days of Fury , " he says as the interview gets under way . " We hit the nerve of the country . The country was angry . " It was n't just the MAGA faithful . Trump harnessed deep national discontent about the economy , immigration , and cultural issues . His grievances resonated with suburban moms and retirees , Latino and Black men , young voters and tech edgelords . While Democrats estimated that most of the country wanted a President who would uphold the norms of liberal democracy , Trump saw a nation ready to smash them , tapping into a growing sense that the system was rigged . <p> If America was craving change , it is about to see how much Trump can deliver . He ran on a strongman vision , proposing to deport migrants by the millions , dismantle parts of the federal government , seek revenge against his political adversaries , and dismantle institutions that millions of people see as censorious and corrupt . " He understands the cultural zeitgeists , " says his 2016 campaign manager Kellyanne Conway , who remains a close adviser . " Donald Trump is a complicated person with simple ideas , and way too many politicians are the exact opposite . " <p> Trump takes the stage at the GOP Convention in Milwaukee on July 18Jim Watson -- AFP/Getty Images <p> Trump also promises to attack the sources abroad that he blames for the country 's malaise : economic interdependence , transnational criminals , traditional allies he sees as free riders on America 's long-running global beneficence . He believes he has tools to fight back : punitive tariffs , bare-knuckle negotiations , and threats to withdraw U.S. military , humanitarian , and economic support . Willing to upend the nation 's postwar role as a bulwark against authoritarianism , he promises to usher in a foreign policy rooted in " America First " transactionalism . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Much still stands in his way . The Republicans have narrow majorities in the House and Senate . A conservative Supreme Court may not bless all his boundary-pushing policies . Enduring institutional resistance inside the federal bureaucracy could thwart his designs . The public also remains a powerful check on any President . Trump has proved twice now that he can surf to power on anti-incumbent sentiment , a cult of personality , and divisive rhetoric , including racist and xenophobic attacks . He has yet to prove that he can enact the radical vision he campaigned on . Those closest to the President-elect say that he will surprise people by fulfilling his promises . " Most politicians do n't , " says Wiles , " and he will . " <p> Whether Trump can actually fix the root causes of Americans ' anger is another question . He will now have to contend with the same forces he rode to the White House -- a globalized economy , mass migration , the rise of China -- that have bedeviled predecessors from both parties and ousted incumbents around the world . He will also see just how far the nation is willing to let him go . If he succeeds , he could reshape the country . Along the way , he risks tearing down the constitutional norms and institutions that have seen America 's great experiment in democracy through 2 1/2 centuries . <p> Trump was in the private cabin of his plane , flying to an April 2 campaign rally in Grand Rapids , Mich. , when he picked up a document Wiles had placed atop a stack of papers . The heading was not subtle : " How a national abortion ban will cost Trump the election . " Trump raised his eyebrows . " Kind of a nasty title , huh ? " he said . <p> The episode was a turning point for an issue central to the race : whether Trump could find a position on abortion that would limit his electoral losses with women after playing a pivotal role in the fall of Roe v. Wade . That in turn was part of Trump 's larger challenge : how to offer change to everyone who wanted it , including voters put off by his positions or behavior . " There are not enough MAGA people to actually win an election , " a Trump campaign official tells TIME . " So who do you go get ? How do you broaden that ? " <p> Before he considered the memo , Trump had been on the verge of supporting a 16-week federal abortion ban . Conway had showed him polling that indicated barring the procedure after 16 weeks of pregnancy was more popular than doing so after 24 . But Trump 's speechwriter and policy adviser , Vince Haley , had raised an objection on a late-March conference call , according to three people present : " Does he know that the 16-week ban will be stricter than existing law in a lot of the states ? " There was a silence . " Probably not , " said Trump 's political director James Blair , who set to assembling a slide deck that argued such a ban would hurt Trump in the key states of Pennsylvania , Michigan , and Wisconsin , all of which offered women the opportunity to obtain the procedure until at least 20 weeks of pregnancy . <p> After flipping through Blair 's presentation on the plane , Trump perked his head up : " So we leave it to the states , right ? " Advisers agreed . " Great , " Trump said . " We 'll do a video . " Within a few minutes , he was dictating his remarks to Haley . A few days later , Trump released the clip on his social media platform . For the rest of the race , a politician who had once asserted that " there has to be some form of punishment " for women who undergo abortions stuck to his stance of treating it as a states ' -rights issue . <p> The same month , Trump made another fateful decision : to end his crusade against vote by mail and early voting . For more than a year , senior advisers urged him to embrace a practice Trump had baselessly maligned as rife with fraud since the 2020 election . Several of his top lieutenants , including Wiles and Blair , were Florida operatives trained in the science of banking early votes . Wiles wrote Trump a memo showing the data on how spurning mail ballots cost Republicans in a series of razor-thin races in 2022 . It would be self-defeating to oppose the practice , argued Wiles and Trump 's daughter-in-law Lara , whom he had handpicked as co-chair of the Republican National Committee ( RNC ) . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Trump listened , but it took a visit from Rob Gleason , a former chair of the Pennsylvania Republican Party , to frame the matter in terms that made him agree . " Sir , your people are so excited to vote for you that they want to as soon as they can , " Gleason told him during an April meeting at Mar-a-Lago , according to two Trump officials familiar with the conversation . " They do n't want to wait . But you got ta tell them it 's OK . You got ta give them permission . " From then on , Trump promoted absentee and early voting , and directed the RNC to launch a mobilization drive targeting mail voters . <p> By the summer , Trump had the confidence of a man holding history in his hands . In late June , Joe Biden 's weak debate performance spurred an open revolt among panicking Democrats . On July 13 , Trump survived the assassination attempt , prompting an outpouring of support and sympathy . To many Americans , his defiance in the aftermath of the shooting -- rising bloodied , fist in the air , chanting " Fight ! " -- made him an inspirational figure for the first time . " A lot of people changed with that moment , " Trump tells TIME , sipping Diet Coke from a glass at Mar-a-Lago . <p> Platon for TIME <p> Trump 's strengthening position prompted Biden to drop out of the race and endorse Vice President Kamala Harris . Within a matter of days , Harris consolidated support , raised hundreds of millions of dollars , and galvanized a moribund Democratic base . In the wake of a successful Democratic National Convention , Trump 's inner circle experienced a creeping sense that he could lose . It was the moment of " maximal worry , " says Vance . " There was this sense of , Is this honeymoon with Kamala Harris going to last all the way until the election ? " <p> Trump is a devotee of the Don Draper maxim : If you do n't like what 's being said , change the conversation . And so his team did . Trump 's son Don Jr . had long cultivated a rapport with Robert F. Kennedy Jr. , whose independent campaign for the presidency in 2024 had garnered surprising levels of support , especially among disillusioned young men . Don Jr . worried Kennedy 's candidacy risked siphoning key votes , and he began clandestine negotiations as the conversations progressed . Trump Jr . and Wiles began coordinating with Kennedy 's campaign manager , his daughter-in-law Amaryllis Fox Kennedy , about removing him from the ballot in swing states and endorsing Trump . As Vance tells it , the pitch was simple : " You 're not going to win . You 're not going to have any effect on this race other than taking votes away from Donald Trump . So why do n't you actually join the team , set differences to the side , and focus on the big things that we care about ? " <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Once Kennedy bought into the plan , Wiles advised waiting to announce it until after the Democratic convention , believing it would stall Harris ' momentum . To Wiles , the endorsement was one of the campaign 's key moments . It neutralized the threat that Kennedy would peel off votes from Trump . But more importantly , " he allowed us to broaden the base of the party , " she says . " He was a key way to do that . " <p> Other new voters were devotees of Elon Musk , who endorsed Trump after the attack in Butler . Musk ended up pouring more than $250 million into supporting him , turning X into a de facto campaign organ , and serving as a key validator with the tech execs and corporate chieftains who had shied away from Trump for much of his time in the political arena . Now Musk will be among the array of billionaires with direct access to the Oval Office , creating a web of competing conflicts of interest . <p> To boost the contrast , the campaign maneuvered to portray Harris as too left-wing . It called attention to a questionnaire Harris filled out for the ACLU in 2019 , during her last run for President , in which she supported taxpayer-funded sex-change operations for undocumented migrants held in detention . Trump 's adviser Taylor Budowich and admaker Pat McCarthy drummed up a line that would define his most influential campaign advertisement : " Kamala is for they/them . President Trump is for you . " The Trump campaign spent nearly $20 million to air the ad some 55,000 times in the first half of October , making it a key part of its closing message . <p> Strategists from both parties are divided over whether the Trump team 's blueprint made the difference in a close race , or if Harris ' headwinds -- from pandemic-induced inflation to broad disquiet over Biden 's age -- were just too much to overcome in a truncated campaign against the world 's most famous person . " We were up against a caricature of being dangerously liberal , " Harris campaign chief Jen O'Malley Dillon said at a Harvard Institute of Politics conference Dec. 6 . The Vice President 's unwillingness to distance herself from her unpopular boss may have made as much of a difference as anything Trump did right . " It was a big looming negative hanging over us the whole time , " said Harris deputy campaign manager Quentin Fulks . <p> During his speech at the RNC , Trump discusses the attempt on his life in Butler , Pa.Morry Gash -- AP <p> On election night , Trump campaign staff set up a war room in Trump 's office at Mar-a-Lago , poring over incoming returns as the candidate schmoozed in the club 's ballroom with Musk and UFC chief Dana White . After North Carolina and Georgia shifted into his column , Trump peeked in . " Anything concerning you ? " he asked . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> " Nope , " an aide replied . " Feel good . " <p> " Good , " Trump said . When he returned to the ballroom , the jubilant crowd was dancing to " YMCA " by the Village People -- a Trump rally staple that has become a cultural touchpoint , with everyone from professional athletes to TikTok aficionados mimicking his signature moves . Trump stood for a moment , taking it all in , before turning to an aide and asking when they should head to the nearby convention center where he would give his victory speech . <p> The election gave Trump political capital to address the sources of American discontent at home and abroad . The question now is how he intends to spend it . By his own account , Trump will push the limits of presidential power and the law . <p> One of the first official acts of his presidency , Trump tells TIME , will be to pardon most of the rioters accused or convicted of storming the Capitol to block the certification of Biden 's victory . " It 's going to start in the first hour , " he says . " Maybe the first nine minutes . " Trump also plans early actions to reverse many of Biden 's Executive Orders and expand the drilling of oil on federal land . <p> Trump 's most aggressive moves will be on immigration enforcement . He vows to tighten the U.S. border with Mexico through a slew of Executive Orders , and aides say he would end the U.S. " catch-and-release " program and resume construction of a border wall . At the same time , he says , he will order U.S. law-enforcement agencies -- and potentially the military -- to embark on a massive deportation operation designed to remove more than 11 million undocumented migrants from the country . While the Posse Comitatus Act forbids the deployment of the military against civilians , Trump says he is willing to enlist the military to round up and deport migrants . " It does n't stop the military if it 's an invasion of our country , " he says . Pressed on how he would respond if the military refuses to carry out those orders , Trump says , " I 'll only do what the law allows , but I will go up to the maximum level of what the law allows . " <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Trump tells TIME he does n't plan to restore the policy of separating children from their families to deter border crossings . But he does n't rule it out , either . " I do n't believe we 'll have to , because we will send the whole family back , " he says . " I would much rather deport them together . " Trump 's incoming border czar , Tom Homan , says " there is no deliberate policy being worked on to separate families . " But he also leaves open the possibility of children again being ripped from their parents . " You ca n't say zero , it 's not going to happen , " Homan says . <p> For a mass-deportation operation of this scale , Trump 's advisers are planning to build more detention centers to hold migrants until they can be deported to their home countries , a process that can take weeks , months , or even years to negotiate with receiving governments . It 's not clear if all will be willing to take the migrants back . " We just do n't arrest an alien and remove them on the same day , " says Homan . " We 're going to need beds . " Trump says he will use access to the U.S. market as leverage to force foreign governments to cooperate . " I 'll get them into every country , " Trump says , " or we wo n't do business with those countries . " <p> Trump at a section of the border wall in Sierra Vista , Ariz. , on Aug. 22Doug Mills -- The New York Times/Redux <p> The operation would come at a steep cost . The nonprofit American Immigration Council estimates the tally for Trump 's mass-deportation plans could be upwards of $300 billion . Trump is likely to seek funding from Congress , according to aides . " It 's going to be expensive , " Homan says . <p> American taxpayers could bear the brunt in other ways . Economists say deporting many of the low-wage workers who bolster multiple industries could lead to higher prices . " If you eliminate the jobs of the people who are working on building houses , those who are also doing the accounting and the supervising and the personnel and running the company -- those kinds of jobs disappear also , " says Douglas Rivlin of America 's Voice , a progressive group that supports immigration reform . " It 's a self-inflicted disaster . " That 's before factoring in the social and psychological costs to watching friends and neighbors rounded up and removed from their communities . " When you see the nightly news and there 's a raid at Joe 's Pizza , " adds Hiroshi Motomura , an immigration scholar at UCLA , " that becomes very real . " <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Just how radical Trump can be depends in part on the buy-in of the Justice Department , which is set to be led by former Florida attorney general Pam Bondi , one of the defense attorneys on his first impeachment . Trump has vowed to seek retribution against his political enemies -- saying the likes of Biden , former House Speaker Nancy Pelosi , Manhattan District Attorney Alvin Bragg , special counsel Jack Smith , and others would face investigation and potential prosecution . Trump was coy in his interview with TIME about whether his DOJ will target his domestic political adversaries , saying only that the decision will be left to Bondi if she 's confirmed . " That 's up to her , " he says . Either way , his victory spells the end of federal prosecutions that charged him with crimes ranging from election subversion to willfully retaining classified documents . ( Trump denied the allegations . ) <p> Trump at Manhattan criminal court during jury deliberations in his criminal hush money trial in New York , May 30Mark Peterson -- Pool/AP <p> To dismantle the federal bureaucracy , Trump has enlisted Musk and Vivek Ramaswamy to head a commission , dubbed DOGE , aimed at slashing the size of government . Musk and Ramaswamy have touted massive layoffs to the federal workforce , especially civil servants , and cuts to regulations on everything from the water we drink to the air we breathe . They promise to finish the job in time for the 250th anniversary of American independence , July 4 , 2026 . <p> Experts in government administration say the commission risks degrading the state 's ability to function . " It 's going to be harmful to the government 's capacity to carry out the missions that Congress has assigned by statute , " like administering Social Security and Medicare , says Peter Shane , a New York University law professor . If the Musk-Ramaswamy commission eliminates large numbers of civil servants , the government will likely have to rely on private companies instead . " There 's no guarantee , " says Shane , " that the contractors are going to be either cheaper or more competent . " <p> On the campaign trail , Trump said he would not order the DOJ to enforce the Comstock Act , a 19th century law that prohibits the mailing of abortion pills . When he spoke with TIME before Thanksgiving , Trump 's position on women 's reproductive rights changed in the span of a few sentences . First he left open the possibility that the Food and Drug Administration could reverse approvals for medication abortion , then said it was " highly unlikely , " before declaring , " We 're going to take a look at all of that . " Asked to clarify whether he was committed to preventing the FDA from stripping access to abortion pills , Trump replied , " It 's always been my commitment . " <p> While Trump 's GOP will have majorities in the House and Senate , he has telegraphed few major legislative pushes beyond extending his first-term tax cuts and funding an immigration crackdown . Trump says he supports preserving the filibuster , which allows a minority in the Senate to block legislation . If that prevents the passage of bills through Congress , he says he will use executive action . " If I have even a little bit of trouble , " he says , " I go to an Executive Order because I can get it done . " <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> It was a glimpse of how Trump 's expansive view of executive power will shape his second term , when he meets with inevitable obstacles . " The idea of the imperial presidency is not new , but he 's taking it further than anyone , " says presidential historian Julian Zelizer of Princeton University . " He does n't care about the kind of restraints that still guided even Richard Nixon . None of that matters to him . So the potential is for an extraordinarily aggressive use of presidential power . " <p> For all the focus on Trump 's domestic agenda , much of the activity when TIME visited Mar-a-Lago was on foreign affairs . Waltz , the incoming National Security Adviser , ducked in and out of meetings , speaking with Vance and Steve Witkoff , the incoming special envoy to the Middle East . A source present in the national-security meetings says the goal was to ensure that America 's adversaries -- and allies -- were not tempted to take advantage of the handoff between administrations . <p> Many of Trump 's answers to the nation 's problems , including his immigration and trade policies , rely on successful diplomacy . " America First " may be both a campaign slogan and a governing North Star , but ending forever wars and boosting U.S. economic advantage requires working with others . <p> Trump 's plans threaten to upend relationships with allies and traditional trading partners by imposing a blanket tariff on all imports . Already , he has floated 25% tariffs on Mexico and Canada , a move that most economists predict will cause prices to rise . And he plans to increase tariffs on Chinese imports , aiming to coerce manufacturers to make their products in the U.S. <p> On the campaign trail , Trump liked to brag about brokering a peace agreement between Russia and Ukraine in 24 hours . In person , he acknowledged this is trickier than he let on . " The Middle East is an easier problem to handle than what 's happening with Russia and Ukraine , " he says . " The numbers of dead young soldiers lying on fields all over the place are staggering . It 's crazy what 's taking place . " Trump criticized Kyiv for launching U.S.-made missiles into Russian territory last month . " I disagree very vehemently with sending missiles hundreds of miles into Russia . Why are we doing that ? " he says . " We 're just escalating this war and making it worse . " When pressed on whether or not he would abandon Ukraine , Trump says he would use U.S. support for Ukraine as leverage against Russia in negotiating an end to the war . " I want to reach an agreement , " he says , " and the only way you 're going to reach an agreement is not to abandon . " <p> In phone calls during the campaign , Trump told Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to wind down the war in Gaza by the time of his Inauguration , a timeline that now looks highly unlikely . In Israel and the U.S. , many suspect Netanyahu is prolonging the fighting to prevent snap elections that could result in his ouster . " He knows I want it to end , " Trump tells TIME . When asked whether he trusts Netanyahu going into a second term , Trump takes a second before answering , " I do n't trust anybody . " <p> Trump also wants to expand the Abraham Accords he brokered between Israel and several Arab states to include Saudi Arabia . But he 's less specific on a resolution between Israel and the Palestinians . In his first term he put forth the most comprehensive plan for a two-state solution since President Bill Clinton and prevented Netanyahu from extending Israeli sovereignty over roughly 30% of the West Bank . But on Nov. 12 , he nominated as incoming U.S. ambassador to Israel Mike Huckabee , a zealous supporter of the settlement movement who advocates for Israel 's annexing the West Bank . <p> The sudden collapse of Assad 's rule in Syria on Dec. 8 adds another layer of complexity to the Middle East . It brings to power a rebel group once affiliated with al-Qaeda , but also marks yet another setback for an Iran regime already weakened in Lebanon and Gaza . Some analysts fear the losses may make Iran more likely to push for a nuclear weapon . Since Trump pulled out of the Iran nuclear deal in 2018 , Tehran has edged ever closer to acquiring a nuclear weapon . As of April , the International Atomic Energy Agency estimated that Tehran has enough weapons-grade uranium to build a bomb in a matter of weeks . Iran and its proxies have waged a multi-front war against Israel and have targeted U.S. assets in the region . During the presidential campaign , the Iranians plotted to assassinate Trump , according to federal charges brought in November by the Department of Justice . While the President-elect prides himself on not entering into any new wars in his first term , he leaves open the possibility that one may be necessary in a second . Asked about the chances of war with Iran , Trump pauses , then replies , " Anything can happen . " <p> By the time the dinner hour is approaching , the crowd has swelled in the ornate reception area at Mar-a-Lago , transforming it into a buzzing king 's court . Job seekers camp out on sofas , waiting to buttonhole Howard Lutnick , the Wall Street executive who co-chairs his transition . Lutnick , who is also Trump 's chosen Commerce Secretary , has been tasked by Trump with vetting Cabinet appointees for the trait Trump values most : loyalty . <p> Trump has selected unconventional nominees who have demonstrated fealty to him and his agenda : former Fox News host Pete Hegseth for Defense Secretary ; Tulsi Gabbard to become the Director of National Intelligence ; and Kash Patel as his FBI director . He rewarded Kennedy by nominating him to lead the Department of Health and Human Services , and chose a pro-union Labor Secretary in a nod to working-class voters while also installing billionaires in top positions to appease the donors who like Trump 's tax cuts and deregulation . The Cabinet taking shape reflects the fragmented coalition that powered him to victory , with Trump diehards mingling with mainstream choices like Senator Marco Rubio for Secretary of State and financier Scott Bessent at the Treasury Department . <p> As Trump gears up for his war on Washington , Washington 's institutions are carefully pushing back . Republican Senators forced Trump to abandon his first choice to run the Justice Department , the far-right former Congressman Matt Gaetz of Florida , recoiling at his bombastic style and allegations that he had sex with a 17-year-old girl . ( Gaetz denies this . ) When it became clear the votes were n't there , Trump told Gaetz , " Matt , I do n't think this is worth the fight , " he tells TIME . In a matter of hours , he announced Bondi , another loyalist , as a replacement . Senators have expressed alarm at Hegseth 's lack of experience and allegations of sexual assault and alcohol abuse , which he denies . Some also worry about putting Gabbard at the helm of the U.S. intelligence community , given her prior positions in support of Russia and Assad 's Syria . <p> Trump says he will honor the Senate 's role in confirming or rejecting his appointments but does not rule out using recess appointments or installing acting agency heads to circumvent Senate approval . " I really do n't care how they get them approved , " he tells TIME , " as long as they get them approved . " Are recess appointments off the table ? " No , " says a senior Trump adviser . " He 's not going to accept being d-cked around . " <p> Trump during his Election Night Watch Party in West Palm Beach , Fla. on Nov. 6David Butow for TIME <p> Trump says he will not ask members of his Administration to sign a formal loyalty pledge . " I think I will be able to , for the most part , determine who 's loyal , " he says . Anyone who gets crosswise with him , he says , will be gone in short order . That includes firing not only his own Cabinet secretaries and political appointees , but also civil servants who work in the Executive Branch . " If they 're not following my policies , " he says , " absolutely . " <p> Trump 's aggressive use of presidential powers will test the judiciary , the last line of defense against actions that threaten constitutional norms . His critics worry that even if the high court strikes the President 's actions , his Justice Department may not enforce the rulings . Trump and his aides are getting ready for an onslaught of lawsuits from groups challenging everything from his immigration measures and attacks on the federal bureaucracy to his attempts to withhold congressionally appropriated funds . " We 're constrained by realities of government and process in certain ways , " says a Trump official , " but he 's gon na try to do big sh-t . " <p> With unified control of Washington , there will be more pressure on Trump to deliver on his campaign promises to lower the cost of living , revive the manufacturing sector , reverse America 's trade deficit with China , and make peace abroad . Donald Kettl , an expert on government administration and former dean of the School of Public Policy at the University of Maryland , argues that Americans are not prepared for the level of disruption that Trump 's second stint in the White House is poised to bring , from potential changes to the education system to revisiting routine childhood vaccines , which Kennedy falsely linked to autism despite scientific evidence to the contrary . " The scale of change that we 're going to see is unprecedented , and the implications for government are enormous , " he says . Voters believe the government is wasteful and untrustworthy , Kettl adds , but if Trump follows through on his pledge to slash a wide range of programs , " you could end up with blowback very quickly that affects the lives of lots and lots and lots of ordinary Americans . " <p> Platon for TIME <p> By the end of Trump 's first term , voters were exhausted by the chaos , fed up with his antics , and frustrated by his management of an unprecedented global health crisis . He left office with low approval ratings . Trump 's victory in November may be partly the product of short memories . For his part , Trump puts faith in his negotiating abilities . " We can use the same words , " he says , " but maybe it 's a look in your eye that works . " Yet already , the President-elect is moving the goalposts on some of his pledges , like lowering the price of groceries . " It 's hard to bring things down once they 're up , " Trump says . " You know , it 's very hard . " <p> If his approach does n't work and Trump feels boxed in , critics worry he will become ever more extreme . To his closest aides , the President-elect 's unpredictable style will give him an edge over America 's competitors . " People are genuinely afraid that if they do n't listen to him , bad things can happen , and there are consequences for disregarding him , " Vance says . Faced with the challenges of governing , Trump seems almost wistful that his last campaign is behind him . " It 's sad in a way , " he says of his election win as the shadows begin to fall on the manicured lawns around his mansion . " It will never happen again . " <p> But a lot can happen in four years under President Donald J. Trump . <p> -- With reporting by Leslie Dickstein and Simmone Shah/New York and Philip Elliott/Cambridge , Mass. 
@@118800230 <p> US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan said on Thursday he believes a deal on a Gaza ceasefire and hostage release may be close , as Israel signaled it was ready , and there were signs of movement from Hamas . <p> " It might not happen , but I believe it can happen with political will on both sides , " he said after meeting Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in Jerusalem . <p> Sullivan said he planned to travel to Qatar and Egypt , Washington 's fellow moderators of the talks , to advance efforts that " would start bringing those hostages home . It would also allow for a massive surge in humanitarian assistance . " <p> A Western diplomat in the region said this week a deal was taking shape , but it was likely to be limited in scope , involving the release of a few hostages and a short pause in hostilities . <h> Potential for fracture <p> Sullivan said he had been engaging with President-elect Donald Trump 's choice to succeed him , Mike Waltz , " in a professional and serious way on all the issues that affect the State of Israel . " <p> He dismissed suggestions that Netanyahu was waiting for Trump to take office on January 20 before accepting a deal . <p> " No , I do not get that sense , " he said at a press conference in Tel Aviv . " I got the sense from the prime minister that he is ready to do a deal . My goal will be to put us in a position to be able to close this deal this month . " <p> " I ca n't make any promises or predictions to you , but I would n't be here today if I thought this thing was just waiting until after January 20 , " Sullivan said . <p> Such a truce , allowing for the release of at least some of the 100 hostages remaining in Gaza , would be only the second since the war began in October 2023 . <p> Sullivan said seven of the hostages were American , although four of them were believed to be dead . <p> An agreement would also enable the release of Palestinian prisoners held by Israel . <p> He said Hamas 's negotiating posture appeared to have changed following a ceasefire deal that halted Israel 's hostilities with Hezbollah in Lebanon and made clear Hamas could not expect outside support . <p> " And from that moment forward , we 've had a different character to the negotiation , and we believe that it puts us in a position to be able to close this negotiation , " Sullivan said . <p> Hamas has agreed to yield to two of Israel 's " key demands " for a ceasefire deal in Gaza , The Wall Street Journal reported Wednesday , confirming a previous Jerusalem Post report , citing Arab mediators . <p> Hamas had dropped two of its demands , including a permanent ceasefire and a complete IDF withdrawal from the Gaza Strip , including the Philadelphi Corridor , the Post reported in July . <p> At the White House on Thursday , National Security Spokesperson John Kirby repeated his assertion that there 's no cavalry coming to save Hamas and there 's been an " awful lot of pressure " put on its supporters . <p> " And now , given where they are and how weakened they are , this is the moment to make this deal , " Kirby said . " And that 's why I think Jake believes that we 're getting close . I mean , this is a great opportunity right now to do it . " <p> According to Journal , Hamas told the mediators for the first time that it would agree to a deal allowing the IDF to remain in Gaza temporarily during the pause in fighting . <p> Hamas had handed over a list of hostages that included US citizens , the report said , adding that they would then be released under a " ceasefire pact . " <p> The new plan was reportedly proposed by Egypt and backed by the US . The plan " seeks to build on the momentum generated by the cease-fire in Lebanon , " which was enacted last month , the Journal reported . <p> Israel 's killing of Hamas leaders , including the main architect of the October 7 massacre , Yahya Sinwar , and its destruction of Hamas 's organized military structures was also relevant , Sullivan said . <p> Anything more than a limited truce remained unlikely so long as both sides stick to demands that have hampered numerous rounds of failed negotiations , he said . <p> " Whether it does get done still depends on both sides signing on the proverbial dotted line , " he added . <p> Sullivan declined to comment on reports that Hamas might be willing to agree to Israeli soldiers remaining in the Netzarim Corridor in central Gaza and the Philadelphi Corridor on its southern edge for longer than they had previously accepted . <p> Trump has demanded Hamas release the hostages held in Gaza before he takes over from Biden on January 20 . Otherwise , he has said , there will be " hell to pay . " <p> A Palestinian official close to the talks described what he called " a fever of negotiations , " with ideas emerging on all sides , including among mediators in Egypt and Qatar , and said Trump 's involvement had given the talks a boost . <p> On Wednesday , the United Nations General Assembly overwhelmingly voted to demand an immediate , unconditional , and permanent ceasefire between Israel and Hamas in the Gaza Strip and the immediate release of all hostages . <p> The ceasefire demand in the resolution -- adopted with 158 votes in favor in the 193-member assembly -- was expressed in more urgent language than one urging an immediate humanitarian truce in Gaza that the body " called for " in October 2023 and then " demanded " in December 2023 . <p> General Assembly resolutions are not binding , but they carry political weight , reflecting a global view of the war . The US , Israel , and seven other countries voted against the ceasefire resolution , while 13 countries abstained . <p> The General Assembly also threw its support behind the UN Palestinian relief agency UNRWA , adopting a second resolution with 159 votes in favor to deplore a new Israeli law that would ban UNRWA 's operations in Israel starting in late January . <p> It demanded that Israel respect UNRWA 's mandate and " enable its operations to proceed without impediment or restriction . " The US , Israel , and seven other countries voted no , while 11 countries abstained . <p> Regarding Syria , Sullivan defended Israel 's operations since the downfall of president Bashar Assad , saying it had a right to defend itself against risks to its security . <p> Since the shock collapse of Assad 's government over the weekend , Israel has moved troops into the buffer zone on the Syrian side of the dividing line with the Golan Heights and has conducted hundreds of airstrikes to destroy Syrian army weapons and equipment . <p> " What Israel is doing is trying to identify potential threats , both conventional and weapons of mass destruction , that could threaten Israel and , frankly , threaten others as well , " Sullivan said . <p> In the aftermath of Assad 's escape from Syria , Israeli jets and missile ships hit military targets , including fighter jets , helicopters , naval vessels , missile stores , and weapons manufacturing sites to stop them from falling into the hands of the rebel forces that toppled Assad . <p> Sullivan said the situation in Syria presented a range of risks , " including the potential for fracture in that state . " Power vacuums could give room for terrorist groups to grow , he said , adding that the new power in Damascus could be hostile to neighbors , including Israel . <p> Speaking in Jordan on Thursday , US Secretary of State Antony Blinken echoed the administration 's backing of Israel 's campaign in Syria . <p> " The Israelis have been clear about what they 're doing and why they 're doing it , " he told reporters at King Hussein International Airport . " I think across the board , when it comes to any actors who have real interests in Syria , it 's also really important at this time that we all try to make sure that we 're not sparking any additional conflicts . " <p> Blinken reiterated Israel 's claim that its incursion into Syria was temporary . <p> Countries including France and the United Arab Emirates have condemned Israel 's move into the buffer zone , but Sullivan said the US had " every expectation " the move would be temporary . <p> Israel has said its incursion into the buffer zone and its seizure of strategic areas of Mount Hermon , overlooking Damascus , was a temporary and limited measure to ensure its security . 
@@118804025 <p> DAMASCUS , Syria ( AP ) -- An American who turned up in Syria says he was detained after crossing into the country by foot on a Christian pilgrimage seven months ago . Travis Timmerman appears to have been among thousands of people released from the country 's notorious prisons after rebels reached Damascus over the weekend , overthrowing President Bashar Assad and ending his family 's 54-year rule . <p> The U.N . General Assembly has overwhelmingly approved resolutions demanding an immediate ceasefire in Gaza and expressing support for the U.N . agency for Palestinian refugees that Israel has moved to ban . <p> WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- FBI Director Christopher Wray says he plans to resign at the end of President Joe Biden 's term in January . The announcement Wednesday comes a week and a half after President-elect Donald Trump announced his intention to nominate loyalist Kash Patel for the position . <p> WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- President-elect Donald Trump says he 's picking Kari Lake as director of Voice of America , installing a staunch loyalist who ran unsuccessfully for Arizona governor and a Senate seat to head the congressionally funded broadcaster that provides independent news reporting around the world . <p> NEW YORK ( AP ) -- President-elect Donald Trump is back in his hometown of New York where he 's been honored as Time magazine 's Person of the Year and will ring the opening bell at the New York Stock Exchange . <p> The gun found on the suspect in the killing of UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson matches shell casings found at the crime scene , New York 's police commissioner said Wednesday . Commissioner Jessica Tisch also said lab results matched suspect Luigi Mangione 's prints to a water bottle and protein bar wrapper found near the scene of the killing . <p> ROVANIEMI , Finland ( AP ) -- More than 600,000 people annually visit Santa Claus Village , a winter-themed amusement park in the small town of Rovaniemi in Finland . They frolic in the snow , take a reindeer sleigh ride or even meet Saint Nick himself . <p> GREEN LAKE , Wis . ( AP ) -- Authorities say a Wisconsin man who faked his own drowning and left his wife and three children for Eastern Europe has willingly returned to the U.S. Ryan Borgwardt is charged with obstruction , a misdemeanor . A not-guilty plea was entered by a judge Wednesday , a day after Borgwardt 's return . <p> WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- Senate Democrats failed in their bid to confirm a Democratic member of the National Labor Relations Board after the Senate rejected a razor-thin vote that hinged on the pivotal rejections of independent Sens . Joe Manchin of West Virginia and Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona . <p> South Korea 's Yoon defends martial law as an act of governance and vows to ' fight to the end . ' <p> -- The Associated Press <p> About this program <p> Host Terry Lipshetz is managing editor of the national newsroom for Lee Enterprises . Besides producing the daily Hot off the Wire news podcast , Terry conducts periodic interviews for this Behind the Headlines program , co-hosts the Streamed &amp; Screened movies and television program and is the former producer of Across the Sky , a podcast dedicated to weather and climate . <p> Theme music <p> The News Tonight , used under license from Soundstripe . YouTube clearance : ZR2MOTROGI4XAHRX 
@@118810130 <h> Follow Us <h> US signals conditional support for future government in Syria <p> Syrians gather in celebration days after the fall of Bashar al-Assad 's government at Umayyad Square in Damascus , Dec. 12 , 2024 . <p> Share <p> US signals conditional support for future government in Syria <p> share <p> WASHINGTON -- <p> Following the fall of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad 's government , the Biden administration said it would fully support a transparent and inclusive transition process toward a nonsectarian government accountable to the Syrian people . <p> " The transition process and new government must also uphold clear commitments to fully respect the rights of minorities , facilitate the flow of humanitarian assistance to all in need , prevent Syria from being used as a base for terrorism or posing a threat to its neighbors , and ensure that any chemical or biological weapons stockpiles are secured and safely destroyed , " U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said in a statement on Tuesday . <p> U.S. recognition of a new government in Damascus could lead to the lifting of sanctions that have crippled the Syrian economy . It 's an incentive the Biden administration can leverage at a moment when the country 's future is deeply uncertain . <p> " What we want to see in terms of governance in Syria is governance that is seen as credible and legitimate , that is sustainable , that meets the aspirations of the Syrian people , " White House national security communications adviser John Kirby said in an interview Tuesday with VOA . It has to be " the product of a Syrian-led process . " <p> Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , the rebels who toppled Assad , is a U.S.-designated foreign terrorist group . Its leader , Abu Mohammed al-Jolani , has a $10 million bounty on his head . <p> " This victory , my brothers , is a new chapter in the history of the entire Islamic nation , " he said in his first speech since his fighters rapidly took control of the country . <p> " It is a turning point for the region , " he said , singling out Iran -- a message he knows will be received well in Israel and the U.S. " He Assad handed Syria over to Iranian ambitions , spreading sectarianism and corruption throughout the country . " <p> Jolani pledged in a statement Tuesday to " hold accountable " members of Assad 's regime who were " involved in torturing the Syrian people . " <p> In recent years , he has espoused sectarian tolerance and distanced himself from extremist ideology . He has sought to reassure Syria 's ethnic and religious minorities , which include Christians , Kurds , Druze and the Alawite community , a sect from which the Assad family originates . <p> But by delivering his victory speech not from the presidential palace but from the Great Mosque of Umayyad in Damascus -- built in the eighth century by a Sunni caliphate -- Golani is sending a message to the region about his majoritarian movement . <p> His speech mirrors that of Islamic State 's first caliph , Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi , at the Great Mosque of al-Nuri in Mosul in 2014 , Michael Rubin , a senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute , told VOA . <p> " On the rebels ' own Telegram channel , there were statements saying , ' We 've taken the Umayyad Mosque . Next , we 're going to go for Al-Aqsa , ' which is in Jerusalem , of course . ' Then , we 're going to go for the Kaaba , ' which is in Saudi Arabia , " Rubin said . <p> US involvement <p> President Joe Biden has moved quickly , sending Blinken to Turkey and Jordan Wednesday to consult with leaders after ordering more than 70 airstrikes on Islamic State targets in Syria on Sunday . <p> " The United States will work with our partners and stakeholders in Syria to help them seize an opportunity to manage the risks , " Biden said . <p> But on January 20 , 2025 , Biden will be replaced by President-elect Donald Trump , who is signaling that he wants the U.S. to stay out of the Syrian conflict . <p> " This is not our fight , " Trump said on social media . " Let it play out . Do not get involved ! " <p> But the U.S. is already involved . It has about 900 troops deployed in Syria and backs a Syrian Kurdish rebel group . Washington also has close ties with all of Syria 's neighbors -- Iraq , Lebanon , as well as allies Israel and Jordan , and NATO ally Turkey . <p> " They are directly impacted by what happens in Syria , and they are also in a position to influence what happens in Syria , for better or for worse , " said Ryan Crocker , a former U.S. ambassador to Syria , Iraq and Lebanon . <p> " Do n't disengage completely , certainly not , " he told VOA . " But if you do n't want to be overly engaged yourself , the United States of America , this is the time to work very closely with partners around the region . " <p> For now , Assad 's ally , Tehran , has lost much of its leverage . Weakened by the defeat of its proxies in Hezbollah in Lebanon and Hamas in Gaza , it may employ pragmatism in dealing with Damascus . <p> " The Iranian foreign minister has talked about the new Syrians as the victory of the opposition , whereas in the past , they would n't legitimize them as opposition . They spoke of them instead as terrorists , " Rubin said , a signal that Tehran is weighing whether it can work with the incoming government . <p> Russia , another Assad backer who has provided asylum for the embattled leader and his family , is lobbying to keep its two military bases in Syria . On Monday , Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said Moscow would enter talks with incoming authorities about Russia 's future military presence . <p> Mohammed al-Bashir , Syria 's newly appointed caretaker prime minister who previously led the rebels ' civilian government , will run a transitional government until March 1 , 2025 , he said in remarks on Tuesday . <p> Begum Donmez Ersoz from VOA Turkish Service , Yulia Savchenko from VOA Russian Service and Jackson Mvunganyi from VOA English to Africa Service contributed to this story . 
@@118810138 <h> Follow Us <h> Israeli troops withdraw from southern Lebanon village under ceasefire deal <p> Lebanese army soldiers inspect the damage in the southern Lebanese village of Al-Khiam , near the border with Israel , on Dec. 12 , 2024 . <p> Share <p> Israeli troops withdraw from southern Lebanon village under ceasefire deal <p> share <p> President Joe Biden 's national security adviser raised hopes Thursday for a Gaza ceasefire , saying Hamas negotiators " did adapt " after the announcement of a ceasefire deal in Lebanon . Hours later , local authorities reported Israeli airstrikes in both Lebanon and Gaza that killed dozens of people between them . <p> " For months , we believe Hamas was waiting for lots of other actors and forces to come to their rescue , to come to their aid , " said national security adviser Jake Sullivan , who was in Tel Aviv as part of a whirlwind Mideast tour . <p> He added : " We believe that it puts us in a position to be able to close this negotiation . " <p> That optimism was chased by reports of renewed Israeli action in both Gaza and Lebanon . <p> Lebanon 's Health Ministry reported an airstrike that killed at least one person in the strategic southern Lebanon town of al-Khiam , a day after Israeli forces withdrew as part of a ceasefire agreement between Israel and the militant group Hezbollah . <p> And in Gaza , hospital officials reported that they took in 25 bodies from an Israeli strike at the Nuseirat refugee camp . Palestinian officials also reported two airstrikes that hit a force protecting humanitarian aid trucks , which killed 13 people , and a separate attack on a residential bombing that included children among its seven victims . <p> Israel 's withdrawal from Al-Khiam came two weeks after the start of the ceasefire brokered by the United States and France . <p> Lebanon 's caretaker prime minister , Najib Mikati , sharply criticized the strike on the town less than 24 hours after the Lebanese army returned . Directing blame at the U.S. and France , he called it " a violation of the pledges made by the parties that sponsored the ceasefire agreement , who must act to curb Israeli aggression . " <p> A day earlier , Mikati had praised the withdrawal as " a fundamental step toward strengthening the army 's deployment in the south , in implementation of the ceasefire decision . " <p> The Israeli military did not immediately comment on the strike at Nuseirat . Israel has said Hamas militants hide among Gaza 's civilian population . The Israeli military is trying to eliminate Hamas , which led the attack on southern Israel in October 2023 that sparked the war in Gaza . <p> The ceasefire halted months of intensified fighting between Israel and Hezbollah , which included Israeli ground operations inside Lebanon and airstrikes that killed multiple Hezbollah leaders . Hezbollah launched cross-border attacks against Israel in solidarity with Hamas militants in the Gaza Strip following the October 2023 Hamas attack on southern Israel . <p> The U.N . General Assembly demanded on Wednesday an immediate and permanent ceasefire in the Gaza Strip as well as the immediate and unconditional release of all hostages still being held by Palestinian militants . <p> " The message that it is sending is that we are with you , " Palestinian envoy Riyad Mansour said after the vote . He added that it shows that Israel and its main backer , the United States , are more isolated internationally over the war . <p> The ceasefire resolution , which had 85 cosponsors , was adopted with 158 votes in favor and nine against , including the United States and Israel . <p> " The vote today is not a vote for compassion , " Israel 's ambassador , Danny Danon , said . " It is a vote for complicity . " He said the resolution failed to directly link the release of the remaining 100 hostages held by Hamas with the ceasefire , saying that amounted to " appeasement . " <p> The United States blocked a similar measure with its veto at the U.N . Security Council on November 20 , saying that it could not support an unconditional ceasefire that did not come with the release of hostages . <p> It voted against the ceasefire resolution in the General Assembly on Wednesday on similar grounds , as well as a second resolution supporting UNRWA , the embattled U.N aid agency that assists Palestinian refugees . <p> " Colleagues , the messages we send to the world through these resolutions matter . And both of these resolutions have significant problems , " U.S. Deputy U.N . Ambassador Robert Wood told the Assembly . " One rewards Hamas and downplays the need to release the hostages , and the other denigrates Israel without providing a path forward to increasing humanitarian assistance to Palestinian civilians . " <p> The General Assembly previously has called for a ceasefire , but its resolutions , though they carry the moral weight of the majority of the international community , are nonbinding and have been ignored . <p> The text also demands that Palestinian civilians across Gaza be given immediate access to aid necessary for their survival . The situation is especially dire in northern Gaza , where the U.N . says between 65,000 to 75,000 Palestinians have been largely cut off from aid deliveries for the past two months . International hunger monitors say famine is imminent there . <p> Support for UNRWA <p> In a separate vote , the 193-member assembly expressed support for UNRWA , the embattled U.N aid agency that assists Palestinian refugees in the occupied territories and the wider Middle East . <p> On October 28 , Israel 's parliament adopted legislation to ban the agency in Israel , potentially crippling its ability to reach millions of Palestinians in Gaza and the West Bank . The law will go into effect in January . <p> More than 90 countries cosponsored the text , and 159 countries voted in favor of it , while nine voted against . The resolution says no other agency can replace it and called on Israel " to abide by its international obligations , respect the privileges and immunities of the Agency and uphold its responsibility to allow and facilitate full , rapid , safe and unhindered humanitarian assistance in all its forms into and throughout the entire Gaza Strip . " <p> The resolution also calls on Israel to pay UNRWA reparations for the dozens of schools , health centers and other facilities the agency runs that its military has bombed during the past 14 months . <p> " An agency we established is under threat , " said Slovenian Ambassador Samuel ? bogar , referring to the General Assembly 's creation of UNRWA in 1949 . " It is an agency acting on our behalf , on behalf of the values and principles of this organization . We need to support it . " <p> Norway 's ambassador said her country will submit a draft resolution to the assembly requesting the International Court of Justice to give an advisory opinion on Israel 's obligations to facilitate humanitarian assistance and other kinds of aid to the Palestinian population , delivered by the U.N. , NGOs and states . <p> The two resolutions voted on Wednesday received the highest margin of support of any Gaza-related motions in the General Assembly since the war started 14 months ago . <p> The United Nations on Wednesday appealed for just over $4 billion to address the most urgent humanitarian needs in the Palestinian territories for the next year . <p> Hamas set off the war with its October 7 , 2023 , terror attack on southern Israel during which its fighters killed about 1,200 people and took 250 hostages . Israel 's counteroffensive in Gaza has killed more than 44,800 people , according to the health ministry in Gaza , which does not distinguish between combatants and civilians in its count . <p> Hamas has been designated as a terror group by the United States , United Kingdom and several other Western countries . <p> U.N . correspondent Margaret Besheer contributed to this report . Some material in this report came from The Associated Press , Agence France-Presse and Reuters . <p> The Voice of America provides news and information in more than 40 languages to an estimated weekly audience of over 326 million people . Stories with the VOA News byline are the work of multiple VOA journalists and may contain information from wire service reports . 
@@118832731 <h> Blinken meets Iraq PM to discuss Syria future , fight against ISIL <p> US secretary of state visits the Middle East after Bashar al-Assad 's government collapses . <p> US Secretary of State Antony Blinken , centre , attends a briefing with US Major General Kevin Leahy , commander of the Combined Joint Task Force - Operation Inherent Resolve , at the US embassy in Baghdad , Iraq , on December 13 , 2024 Andrew Caballero-Reynolds/Pool via Reuters <p> Published On 13 Dec 202413 Dec 2024 <p> United States Secretary of State Antony Blinken has met Iraq Prime Minister Mohammed Shia al-Sudani for talks on the future of neighbouring Syria during an unannounced visit to Baghdad . <p> Blinken visited the US embassy in the Iraqi capital on Friday on the final stop of his tour of the Middle East following the toppling of President Bashar al-Assad 's government in Syria . <p> Blinken and al-Sudani discussed " the conviction of so many countries in the region and beyond that as Syria transitions from the Assad dictatorship to hopefully a democracy , it does so in a way that , of course , protects all of the minorities in Syria , that produces an inclusive , nonsectarian government " , Blinken said , adding that Syria should not become a " platform for terrorism " . <p> " I think this is a moment as well for Iraq to reinforce its own sovereignty as well as its stability , security and success going forward , " Blinken said . <p> " The United States and Iraq together had tremendous success in taking away the territorial caliphate that Daesh had created years ago . " <p> Advertisement <p> " No one knows the importance of that more than Iraq because of the ongoing presence of ISIS ISIL , or Daesh , in Syria , and we are determined to make sure that Daesh can not re-emerge , " he said . <p> The opposition fighters who toppled al-Assad in Syria , led by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , have disavowed al-Qaeda and ISIL and said they have no ambitions in Iraq . <p> Iraq opted not to allow Shia rebel groups to intervene in Syria as the opposition forces advanced and ultimately seized Damascus last weekend despite Baghdad 's concerns that unrest could spill over the border . <h> Gaza truce talks <p> Blinken arrived in Baghdad after stopping in Turkiye , where he also emphasised that it was " imperative " to work against a resurgence of ISIL . <p> He met President Recep Tayyip Erdogan , who assured Blinken Turkiye would not ease up in the fight against ISIL in Syria despite its operations against Kurdish fighters who have allied with the US in the fight against the group . <p> " Turkiye will never allow any weakness to arise in the fight against Daesh , " Erdogan said while promising not to let up in his government 's pursuit of groups it sees as a threat to national security . <p> Blinken also said he saw " encouraging signs " of progress towards a ceasefire in the Gaza Strip , urging Turkiye to use its influence to encourage the Palestinian group Hamas to accept a proposed deal . <p> Advertisement <p> " We discussed Gaza , and we discussed I think the opportunity ... to get a ceasefire in place . And what we 've seen in the last couple of weeks are more encouraging signs that that is possible , " Blinken said . <p> " We talked about the imperative of Hamas saying ' yes ' to the agreement that 's possible , to finally help bring this to an end , " he said . <p> More than 44,875 Palestinians have been killed and 106,454 injured in Israel 's war on Gaza , which began on October 7 , 2023 , according to the Gaza Ministry of Health . 
@@118832736 <p> A Palestinian flag flutters in the wind during a pro-Palestinian encampment , advocating for financial disclosure and divestment from all companies tied to Israel and calling for a permanent cease-fire in Gaza , inside Columbia University Campus on Sunday , April 28 , 2024 , in New York AP Photo/Andres Kudacki <p> It was n't as if universities in the US had been tolerant of mass protests in the past . Universities called the cops on their students back in the 1960 's and 1970 's when they staged sit-ins for civil rights or protested against America 's war in Vietnam as well . In May 1970 , the US National Guard killed four student protesters and wounded nine others at Kent State University in Ohio . That same month , two students were also killed and 12 others wounded by local law enforcement at Jackson State University in Mississippi . <p> Advertisement <p> It has always been in the nature of universities in the US -- with their top-down approaches to running campuses -- to do everything they can to suppress civil disobedience in any form , to punish students for even attempting to organise protests . With the widespread strong-armed responses to the anti-genocide protests this spring and the broad revisions to regulation at almost every campus aimed at squashing any potential renewal of such protests this fall , however , one thing is clear . Today , the American university -- just like the American nation-state -- is once again at peak repression . It has transformed fully into a corporate-like entity that view silencing dissent and maintaining order and obedience as part of its mission statement . <p> At Towson University , for example , the punishment for the handful of students who did a " die-in " in November 2023 to draw attention to Israel 's genocide in Gaza included requiring them to write essays explaining how they mobilised student protests . Illinois state 's attorney Julia Rietz , at the behest of the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign , is still considering filing felony " mob action charges " against four students for building a pro-Palestinian encampment on campus . Many others have required students to complete mandatory modules about the First Amendment rights to freedom of speech , expression , and assembly , which include explanations on various limits universities can legally impose on each . Other institutions now require students to register themselves as an organised group and seek prior approval for where , when , and how they can protest . <p> Advertisement <p> The overall result has been far fewer protests in the fall of 2024 than there were back in the spring . It 's as if higher education leaders and university donors do not understand that the purpose of protest -- and really , any organised attempt at civil disobedience -- is to disrupt . Disruption ensures those in power can not turn their heads away from the issues protesters amplify , like with Israel 's ongoing genocide in Palestine and America 's complicity in it . <p> It seems as if universities only want weak protests , the kind that will not force them to change how they operate or how they invest their endowments -- protests with no teeth at all . <p> I have experienced this first hand , many decades before the beginning of the genocide in Gaza that laid bare the oppressive nature of the American university in the past year . As an undergraduate at the University of Pittsburgh , I was a member of the Black Action Society ( BAS ) . After years of meetings , flyers , and petitions demanding that the university divest from the apartheid regime in South Africa , Pitt 's administration agreed to allow BAS to march around the campus . By then it was my senior year , the fall of 1990 , and our little march was too little too late . South Africa was already on the path toward a post-apartheid future by the time Pitt 's administration acquiesced . <p> Our university-approved protest was in stark contrast with the anti-apartheid protests that hit New York in 1985 , as part of which a coalition of student groups blockaded Hamilton Hall ( now Mandela Hall ) at Columbia University for three weeks . These unauthorised protests eventually forced Columbia to divest from its financial holdings in South Africa . <p> Advertisement <p> Universities approve protest action only when they know it is unlikely to make much difference . And polite protests seldom achieve anything other than uneasy complacency . <p> This year , besides students who missed out on graduation , an untold number of faculty and staff have seen themselves out of jobs or outright fired over their participation in pro-Palestine protests . Most of them , though , are not like former Muhlenberg College professor Maura Finkelstein , so far the only tenured faculty member fired because of her anti-genocide speech . Colleges have sacked a considerable number of anti-genocide contingent and adjunct faculty , who were already vulnerable due to their " short-time contract labour " status . Many more contingent faculty who have spoken out about Palestine , however , have simply been put " under investigation , " and their contracts quietly allowed to expire without renewals . As Anita Levy , senior program officer with the American Association of University Professors ( AAUP ) said during an interview with The Intercept earlier this year , " the bulk of our inquiries , even our cases , have to do with violations of due process " for contingent faculty . <p> I may be one of these contingent academics whose contract was not renewed and employment ended without any due process . A month after publishing my Al Jazeera article " The American centre 's embrace of the far right fuels Israel 's war machine " in October 2023 , my history department chair at Loyola University Maryland gave me unofficial word that my contract would not be renewed . I reached out to Loyola through AAUP for more details in June 2024 , but they refused to provide any explanation . I will likely never be sure what role my anti-genocidal stance against Israel played in my non-renewal compared to other politics internal to my department and my university . But the timing of my unofficial notification of my contract 's non-renewal is quite curious . <p> Advertisement <p> Last March , anti-genocide students slapped a Palestinian flag sticker on my office hours sign . My department wanted to know if I wanted this sign taken down , calling it " an act of vandalism " . I said , " No , it 's perfectly fine . Students should be able to express themselves . Who am I not to support them ? " None of my colleagues stopped by my office for the remainder of the spring semester , except to ask about my departure date so that they could move a new faculty member into my office . <p> That I am not alone in what some have called " the new McCarthyism " at US universities is cold comfort . It is not lost on me that a disproportionate number of the encampments , protests , arrests , suspensions , and non-renewals that took place and are in the public record occurred at elite public and private universities . The crackdown over the past year has had a chilling effect in quashing protests at predominantly white universities attended by America 's educational and socioeconomic elites . For the rest of academia , the academic freedom and the liberal arts aspect of a college education is on life support . The sheer amount of pressure coming from centre-right and far-right politicians , state legislatures , and the US Congress -- not to mention university donors and boards -- has put even the most well-meaning university administration in a repressive role . <p> All US universities -- whatever their size , influence and economic power , want an unpolitical and uncritical faculty and student body , that would not cause trouble , scare donors or hinder their day-to-day comfort . They hope for a campus community that remains as quiet and docile as church mice after drinking communion wine . <p> Whether this is a new era of McCarthyism remains to be seen . In light of the past year of protest , though , maybe one 's right to say something about an injustice and to express it in art and in protest with other like-minded individuals should be a serious criterion when students consider what college they would like to attend . If anyone were to rank universities by their willingness to embrace protests , I suspect nearly all higher education institutions would flunk this measure . The blanket attempt to shut down and shut up students and faculty will likely backfire , perhaps even leading to violent protests and a disproportionately deadly and violent response . But whatever this era is , the idea that the US university is a place of critical thinking , social justice , liberal arts , and making the world a better place is as false as the day is long . <p> The views expressed in this article are the author 's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera 's editorial stance . 
@@118843721 <h> IDF troops reach Damascus ' doorstep , uncover Syrian military weakness <p> The Northern Command Commander visited the forces of the 474th Special Operations Group in Syria during their mission in front defense in the area ( photo credit : IDF ) <p> The 603rd Battalion of the IDF 's Combat Engineering Corps has reached Tel Hadar , the deepest point in Syria that Israeli forces have entered -- 10 kilometers from the Israeli border and just over 20 kilometers from Damascus . <p> " We left Al-Hiam last Wednesday for a weekend break . On Saturday , I received calls , and by Saturday night , the entire company had assembled in the Golan Heights . By Sunday , we were on Syrian soil , " recounted Captain Uri Almog , company commander in the 603rd Battalion . <p> " Our soldiers understand the importance of this mission and were excited -- it 's not something to take for granted . We advanced to capture Tel Hadar under the Commando Brigade , but the first vehicle to set foot on the hill was from Brigade 7 . This is the furthest the IDF has entered Syria . The last time was October 12 , 1973 , when Golani forces captured this mountain , " Almog explained . <h> Historic deployment <p> The IDF has historically trained extensively for operations involving Syrian army outposts , nicknamed " Syrian Pitas " for their fortified structure . However , in recent years , the IDF focused on threats from Lebanon and Gaza , not expecting to maneuver in Syrian territory.IDF SOLDIERS are on an armored personnel carrier , as one of them prays the morning service , along the ceasefire line between Israel and Syria , this week . ( credit : Miro Maman/Reuters ) <p> " We were n't trained for Syrian scenarios ; we learned about Hezbollah and Hamas . Now , even with no enemy present , the terrain itself poses challenges . We grew up hearing stories about complex obstacles , but they were n't as difficult as expected . Our bulldozers can handle everything . It 's clear their defenses were n't well-maintained in our sector , " said Almog . <h> Uncovering weapons <p> The IDF uncovered various weapons and equipment left by Syrian forces , much of which was in poor condition . Soldiers found three Syrian tanks that appeared neglected : " They 're rusty and unmaintained . I doubt they could breach Israel 's defenses , " Almog said . <p> Despite this , the Syrian outposts were surprisingly tidy : " The base was clean , with proper signage and trash bins . While their soldiers did n't perform well , their maintenance teams did . We found old night-vision equipment , but it did n't work despite trying all the batteries we had . Observation logs were also discovered . " <p> The soldiers are gearing up for harsh winter conditions . " It 's very cold , but the army provides everything we need . No soldier is left shivering . We make sure to stay hydrated , even though the cold suppresses thirst , " Almog said . <p> The troops also reported encounters with local civilians . " A Syrian civilian signaled that he was hungry , so I gave him a combat ration . There was no hostility at any point , " Almog explained.Captain Almog 's parents , who live in Givat Avni , expressed concern for his safety . " My mother is very worried , and so is my father , although he does n't show it . They were most concerned when I was in Lebanon , but this time they understand the IDF is strong , and everything is secure , " Almog concluded . 
@@118843722 <h> IDF troops reach Damascus ' doorstep , uncover Syrian military weakness <p> By AVI ASHKENAZI The Northern Command Commander visited the forces of the 474th Special Operations Group in Syria during their mission in front defense in the area ( photo credit : IDF ) <p> The 603rd Battalion of the IDF 's Combat Engineering Corps has reached Tel Hadar , the deepest point in Syria that Israeli forces have entered -- 10 kilometers from the Israeli border and just over 20 kilometers from Damascus . <h> The IDF reiterated that , while the brigade remains deployed in southern Lebanon , removing threats to Israel and its citizens , it is acting in accordance with the ceasefire agreement . <p> By JERUSALEM POST STAFF Israeli military forces driving in the buffer zone with Syria , near the Druze village of Majdal Shams in the Golan Heights , on December 11 , 2024. ( photo credit : JALAA MAREY/AFP VIA GETTY IMAGES ) <p> The IDF has been continuing operational activities in both Gaza and southern Lebanon , dismantling missile and rocket launch sites in both areas , the army reported on Friday . <p> In Lebanon , soldiers in the 769th Brigade discovered a large weapons store , including concealed Kornet missile launchers , AK-47 rifles , magazines , missiles , and other military equipment hidden in dense and mountainous terrain , the IDF said . <h> The deal 's approval ultimately is reportedly dependent on Israel . <p> Both Israel and Gaza-based terror groups Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad have indicated willingness to cooperate and be flexible in order to reach a ceasefire agreement , Egyptian sources told the Hezbollah-affiliated Lebanese newspaper Al-Akhbar . <p> US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said on Friday that he discussed the imperative of Palestinian militant group Hamas ' saying ' yes ' to the Gaza ceasefire agreement in his talks with Turkey 's President and Foreign Minister . <p> " In my discussions with President Erdogan and with Minister Fidan we talked about the imperative of Hamas saying yes to the ( Gaza ) agreement that 's possible to finally help bring this to an end , " Blinken said , following his meeting with Turkish foreign minister Hakan Fidan in Ankara . <p> " We appreciate very much the role that Turkey can play in using its voice with with Hamas , to try to bring this to conclusion . " 
@@118843723 <h> Blinken 's conversation with the Turkish diplomat comes in the midst of his Middle East tour to bolster a united front with Arab and Turkish allies in the region . <p> US Secretary of State Antony Blinken boards a US Air Force aircraft after his meetings in the Turkish capital Ankara on December 13 , 2024. ( photo credit : ANDREW CABALLERO-REYNOLDS/POOL VIA REUTERS ) <p> US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Turkish Foreign Minister Hakan Fidan agreed on Friday on the need for continued efforts to counter any resurgence of Islamic State in Syria following the fall of Bashar al-Assad . <p> Washington 's top diplomat also said that he discussed the imperative of Palestinian militant group Hamas saying " yes " to a Gaza ceasefire agreement in his talks with Turkey 's president and foreign minister . A US official said Hamas has softened its position in ceasefire talks . <p> Blinken is touring the Middle East to establish a united front with Arab and Turkish allies on the set of principles that Washington hopes will guide Syria 's political transition , such as inclusivity and respect for minorities . <p> He said on Monday that Islamic State would try to use this period to re-establish capabilities in Syria , but the United States was determined not to let that happen . <p> " Our countries worked very hard and gave a lot over many years to ensure the elimination of the territorial caliphate of ISIS , to ensure that threat does n't rear its head again , and it 's imperative that we keep at those efforts , " Blinken said alongside Fidan after they met in Ankara . US Secretary of State Antony Blinken shakes the hand of Turkish Foreign Minister Hakan Fidan after a joint press conference at the Ministry headquarters in the Turkish capital Ankara on December 13 , 2024. ( credit : ANDREW CABALLERO-REYNOLDS/POOL VIA REUTERS ) <h> Establish security in Syria <p> Talks also focused on a critical aspect of establishing stability in Syria - clashes in the north of the country between the US-backed and Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) and Turkish-backed rebels . <p> The SDF is the main ally in a US coalition against the Islamic State militants . It is spearheaded by YPG militia , a group that Ankara sees as an extension of Kurdistan Workers Party ( PKK ) militants that it outlaws and who have fought the Turkish state for 40 years . <p> NATO allies Washington and Ankara supported Syrian rebels during the 13-year civil war , but their interests clashed when it came to the SDF faction . <p> Turkish leaders agreed with Blinken that the SDF should not be distracted from its role of securing camps holding detained Islamic State fighters and from fighting the remnants of that group , said the US official , who was speaking on the condition of anonymity and has knowledge of Blinken 's meetings with Turkish leaders . <p> Earlier this week , Turkish-backed forces seized the northern city of Manbij from the SDF , which then headed east of the Euphrates River . A Syrian opposition source told Reuters the US and Turkey had reached an agreement on the withdrawal . <p> Neither Blinken nor Fidan made any reference to the agreement , but the US official traveling with Blinken said it was a focus of the talks . <p> The official said the ceasefire had generally held , but settling the broader tensions between Kurds in Syria and Turkey would take more time , adding that Washington was closely watching any moves by Turkey or Turkish-backed forces on the Kurdish-controlled town of Kobani . <p> After meeting with Blinken , Fidan said Turkey 's " priority in Syria is to ensure stability ... as soon as possible , to prevent terrorism from gaining ground and to prevent Islamic State and the PKK from dominating there . " <p> " We discussed in detail what we can do about these , what our common concerns are , and what our common solutions should be , " he said . <p> In an interview with Turkish broadcaster NTV late on Friday , Fidan said the elimination of YPG was Turkey 's " strategic target " and urged the group 's commanders to leave Syria . <p> He also criticized the West , saying it was using the PKK to secure the detention camps holding Islamic State fighters and that the PKK was " blackmailing " the international community through this role . <h> Ceasefire in Gaza <p> Blinken also pressed the importance of a ceasefire to end hostilities between Palestinian militants Hamas and Israel in Gaza during his meetings in Turkey as Washington makes a fresh push to clinch a deal that has eluded President Joe Biden 's administration for over a year . <p> " In my discussions with President Erdogan and with Minister Fidan we talked about the imperative of Hamas saying yes to the ( Gaza ) agreement that 's possible to finally help bring this to an end , " Blinken said following his meeting with Fidan . <p> " We appreciate very much the role that Turkey can play in using its voice with Hamas , to try to bring this to conclusion . " <p> Hamas has softened its position in ceasefire talks , and Turkey has begun employing its leverage over the group since many Hamas leaders moved to Istanbul from Doha , the US official said . 
@@118843729 <h> UK Minister David Lammy promised UNRWA an addition ? 13 million in funding . <p> BRITISH PRIME MINISTER Keir Starmer walks on Downing Street , this week . The British government has changed its stance because it relies on left-wing parties that are not sympathetic to Israel , the writer charges. ( photo credit : REUTERS/Mina Kim ) <p> UK Prime Minister Keir Starmer delivered his condolences to the Commissioner-General of UNRWA organization on Thursday for the death of its aid workers in Gaza , the PM shared on X/Twitter . <p> " UNRWA has my full support , the UK has committed new funding for its vital services , " Starmer said . " We need an immediate ceasefire , the release of all hostages , and an increase of humanitarian aid . " <p> Today I gave my condolences to @UNLazzarini for the UNRWA staff who 've lost their lives in Gaza.UNRWA has my full support , the UK has committed new funding for its vital services.We need an immediate ceasefire , the release of all hostages and an increase of humanitarian aid . **26;2130;TOOLONG <p> The war in Gaza began when Hamas broke the existing ceasefire on October 7 , 2023 , when they invaded southern Israel , murdered some 1200 people , and took over 250 hostages . <p> UNRWA , an organization established by the UN to support Palestinians , has faced a barrage of criticism and funding disruptions after evidence mounted that many of its workers had either participated in the Oct. 7 terror attacks or had also been in the employ of Hamas . Illustrative image of UNRWA chief Philippe Lazzarini. ( credit : ABED RAHIM KHATIB/FLASH90 , Canva , JOHANNA GERON/REUTERS ) <p> Britain 's Foreign Secretary David Lammy also defended UNRWA on Thursday , posting on X , " UNRWA is the backbone of humanitarian operations in Gaza , providing support for Palestinian civilians that no other organization can match . Israel must ensure UNRWA can operate . We are providing ? 13 million in additional support . " <p> UNRWA is the backbone of humanitarian operations in Gaza , providing support for Palestinian civilians that no other organisation can match . Israel must ensure UNRWA can operate . We are providing ? 13 million in additional support . https : //t.co/BdzGBlWtWc <p> Philippe Lazzarini , the chief of UNRWA , has also shared several social media posts accusing Israel of orchestrating a disinformation campaign against the agency - despite Israel frequently sharing evidence that Hamas has a hold on UNRWA . <p> According to the confidential document , most of these UNRWA employees served in Hamas 's military wing , the al-Qassam Brigades . In addition , a majority had important roles in UNRWA schools , serving as principals or deputy principals . <p> Israel voted to outlaw UNRWA in October . Despite much international criticism of the move , Israel 's supporters insist it is a necessary move . <p> One such supporter , Ayelet Samerano , is the mother of hostage Yonatan Samerano . Samerano was abducted by UNRWA social worker Faisal Ali Musalam Naami on Oct.7 and has since advocated for her son , demanding Lazzarini pressure Hamas to release Yonatan. 
@@118843733 <h> Mediators believe that if a limited deal is indeed struck , with the release of hostages , it will result in a dynamic that will ultimately lead to a full deal that will end the war . <p> Defense Minister Israel Katz told the families of hostages still in captivity on Friday that negotiations are underway , and that there is a higher chance than ever for a hostage deal . <p> Katz made statements similar to those of his US counterpart , Lloyd Austin , this week . <p> A Friday KAN report also cited Palestinian sources saying that Hamas is willing to reach a hostage release-ceasefire deal . The report also cited an Israeli source saying that there is progress for the gradual release of hostages . The deal currently being discussed between the parties includes the release of certain hostages , while according to foreign sources , there are plans to release the remaining female hostages first . <p> The mediators believe that if a limited deal is indeed struck , with the release of hostages , it will result in a dynamic that will ultimately lead to a full deal - including the release of all hostages , an end to the war , and the withdrawal of Israeli forces , including from the Philadelphi Corridor , the KAN report added . <h> Reporters weigh in on possible deal <p> " This is the first time since the hostage release deal in November of last year that there is a real opportunity . So if the deal reaches the cabinet - it will pass , " reporter Mia Aiden said on Channel 13 . A woman walks past graffiti calling for the release of the hostages kidnapped during the deadly October 7 , 2023 attack by Hamas , amid the ongoing conflict in Gaza between Israel and Hamas , in Tel Aviv , Israel , November 25 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/STOYAN NENOV ) <p> KAN 11 's Palestinian correspondent Elior Levy reported that Qatar , Egypt , and Turkey are pressuring Hamas to work towards a hostage deal , with the full backing of the United States . <p> While it appears that the hostage deal is approaching , next week , about 20 families of hostages still in Gaza intend to intensify their protests against the government , with the main message being an end to the war , KAN 11 reporter Bar Shem-Ur said . <p> N12 reported that " Hamas is weak , isolated , and tired . The mediators are recognizing signs of weakness . The US is going one step further and said explicitly yesterday : ' A deal can be reached by the end of the month . ' " <p> " The timetable presented by the US is not unreasonable , " added N12 reporter Almog Booker . " Progress is slow - but it is there . Turkey has entered the picture very strongly , and they are also applying pressure on Hamas. " 
@@118843736 <h> NATIONAL AFFAIRS : Israel , confronted with the bitter consequences of October 7 , has chosen to act decisively rather than passively hope for the best -- as it did with Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah . <p> ISRAEL 'S ATTACK on Syrian military bases was a preemptive move to prevent assets falling into Syrian rebel hands . Here , the remains of Syrian naval ships after destruction following an overnight Israeli attack on the port city of Latakia on Tuesday . ( photo credit : AAREF WATAD/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> Israel destroyed the Syrian military within 48 hours this week in a stunning operation echoing Operation Focus , which effectively neutralized the Egyptian , Syrian , and Jordanian air forces on the first day of the 1967 Six Day War . <p> While the similarities are apparent -- in both cases , Israel took out a significant military threat -- the circumstances leading up to the action are dramatically different . <p> In 1967 , the IAF acted preemptively against the Egyptian Air Force , followed by the Syrian , Jordanian , and even Iraqi air forces , to thwart their planned attack . <p> This week , Israel targeted assets belonging to the Syrian Armed Forces -- planes , helicopters , ships , submarines , missiles , chemical weapons depots , air force bases , and ports -- not because Syria was poised to attack , but to prevent that weaponry from falling into the hands of extremist Islamist forces who may attack in the future.In this sense , what Israel did this week is closer to what the British did to the French Navy 84 years ago at Mers-el-K ? bir in what was then French Algeria . <p> On July 3 , 1940 , just two weeks after the French surrendered to the Nazis and the Vichy regime took over , the British faced a dire dilemma . They feared that the powerful French Navy would be seized and turned into a formidable asset for the Nazis . IDF soldiers operate on Mount Hermon , on the border between Israel and Syria , December 12 , 2024 ( credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <p> To prevent this , Winston Churchill ordered the sinking of the main French naval squadron in the Mediterranean . This decisive action , followed by a smaller attack days later at the French naval base in Dakar and the disarming of a French maritime squadron in Alexandria , effectively eliminated the French Navy as a strategic factor in World War II.With these moves , the British -- who at the time seemed on the brink of defeat at the hands of the Nazis -- sent a clear signal to the world and to the Americans of their resolve . <h> Lessons learned from October 7 <p> ISRAEL SENT a similar signal this week to the world and the Jewish state 's many enemies . It has learned one of the key lessons of October 7 and will not sit back and allow an enemy bent on destroying it to build up immediately on its border with the capacity to do so . <p> It allowed this to happen in Gaza and Lebanon , with catastrophic results . It will not allow that to happen in Syria . So , as in 1967 , Israel preempted this week -- though this time not against an immediate threat but a potential one on the horizon . <p> Yet what is emerging in Syria is not just a theoretical threat . The " rebels " who have taken over the country are not all cut from the same cloth . Though some among those who make up the Syrian " rebels " -- the Druze and the Kurds -- may be positively predisposed toward Israel , the main faction -- Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) -- was not too long ago affiliated with al-Qaeda . <p> Even some of the " more moderate " factions in the rebel camp are Islamists of Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan 's ilk . From an Israeli perspective , MiG fighters and SA-5 and S-300 missiles falling into the hands of any of these rebels present -- with October 7 fresh in the national consciousness -- a clear and present danger . <p> As a result , like the British in 1940 , Israel took action to prevent strategic weapons from falling into enemy hands . In the British attack , more than 1,200 French sailors were killed . There have been no reports of casualties from Israel 's strikes . <p> Which , of course , has n't prevented the condemnations . <p> The UN 'S Special Envoy for Syria , Norway 's Geir Pedersen , said that Israel 's bombings in Syria , as well as troop movements in the buffer zone along the Golan border and its takeover of the Syrian side of Mount Hermon , " needs to stop . <p> Along with destroying Assad 's army -- officials estimate that 80% of its strategic capacities have been destroyed -- Israel wasted no time after Damascus fell on Sunday to move into the 235-square-kilometer buffer zone established by the 1974 Disengagement Agreement between Israel and Syria that followed the Yom Kippur War . <p> According to the agreement , the zone would be patrolled by UN forces and remain free of both Israeli and Syrian troops . On Sunday , within hours of the fall of Damascus , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu visited the border and said that with the abandonment of Syrian forces on the Syrian side of the border , the agreement had collapsed . <p> Israel moved troops into the area , as well as onto the Syrian side of Mount Hermon , in what Israeli officials described as temporary measures to prevent hostile forces from taking over these strategic positions.Pedersen charged that Israel was in violation of the disengagement agreement . <p> Does Pedersen really expect that , with the Syrian government 's collapse , Israel would leave the demilitarized zone empty , trusting the rebels -- whoever they might be -- to honor a UN disengagement agreement signed with Israel in 1974 ? <p> Really ? <p> To those -- specifically in France and Germany -- equally appalled like Pedersen that Israel entered the demilitarized zone and who seem to trust that the rebels would not pose an immediate threat to Israeli communities in the Golan , it is worth recalling Churchill 's words explaining his move against the French fleet in 1940 , even though Hitler had " solemnly declared " he would not use the French vessels . <p> " Who in his senses would trust the word of Hitler after his shameful record and the facts of the hour ? " Churchill asked . " At all costs , at all risks , in one way or another , we must make sure that the navy of France did not fall into the wrong hands , and then perhaps bring us and others to ruin . " <p> Likewise , were the massive quantity of sophisticated arms in Syria to fall into the wrong hands , Israel would not be the only country in the region to suffer . <p> Just look at what happened after the fall of Libyan dictator Muammar Gaddafi in 2011 . Libya 's massive weapons stockpile has fueled extremism , insurgency , and crime in neighboring countries ever since . <p> In neighboring Mali , for instance , these weapons enabled jihadist groups to topple the democratically elected government , leading to a French military intervention in 2013 that ultimately failed to stabilize the situation -- yes , the same France now condemning Israel 's actions in Syria . <p> It was n't only in Mali . Arms looted from Gaddafi 's warehouses fell into the hands of terrorists in Niger , Burkina Faso , Sudan , Sinai , Gaza , and Syria . Reports indicate more than one million tons of Gaddafi 's weapons -- including shoulder-launched missiles -- were looted from arms depots , with British intelligence chiefs being quoted calling Libya the " supermarket of the world 's illicit arms trade . " <p> Terrorist groups , including al-Qaeda , acquired these weapons . <p> In a 2017 edition of the national and international security affairs journal PRISM , Mokhtar Belmokhtar of al-Qaeda in the Maghreb was quoted as telling a Mauritanian news agency : " We have been one of the main beneficiaries of the revolutions in the Arab world .... As for our acquisition of Libyan armaments , that is an absolutely natural thing . " It is to prevent such a scenario from repeating itself in Syria that Israel took swift action to destroy the military capabilities built up under Assad . <p> THE ARAB world , which suffered from Libya 's arms spillover , should have supported Israel 's actions in Syria . Instead , they condemned them , largely -- but not solely -- focusing on Israel 's movement into the buffer zone . <p> Saudi Arabia , Qatar , and Egypt issued statements slamming Israel 's actions , claiming violations of international law.Saudi Arabia 's Foreign Ministry issued a statement saying , " The assaults carried out by the Israeli occupation government , including the seizure of the buffer zone in the Golan Heights and the targeting of Syrian territories by Israeli occupation forces , affirm Israel 's continued violation of international law and its determination to undermine opportunities for Syria to restore its security , stability , and territorial integrity . " <p> Qatar and Egypt followed suit with similar condemnations . <p> The most audacious condemnation came from Turkey , which called on Israel to respect Syria 's territorial integrity -- a statement dripping with hypocrisy , given Turkey 's occupation of some 9,000 square kilometers of northern Syria since 2016 . <p> The Arab states , quick to denounce Israel this week , remained noticeably silent about Turkey 's actions . While some Arab states see Turkey 's influence in Syria and support for groups like HTS as potential threats , there has n't been the same unified outcry against Ankara as there has been against Israel . <p> This irony is glaring . Turkish-backed Sunni extremist groups pose a far greater threat to moderate Sunni regimes than Israel ever could . These countries -- and the international community at large -- should be thanking Israel for its decisive actions in Syria , not vilifying it . <p> Israel is not dismantling Syria 's military to assert dominance or pursue conquest . It is doing what the region 's powers failed to do after Libya 's collapse : preventing a flood of dangerous weapons into the hands of extremists who would , in addition to threatening Israel , destabilize the region . <p> The lesson is clear : Israel , confronted with the bitter consequences of October 7 , has chosen to act decisively rather than passively hope for the best -- as it did with Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon . <p> Those condemning Israel for its steps in Syria would do well to ask themselves whether they would dare place their trust in the good intentions of jihadist factions menacingly parked directly on their doorstep . 
@@118843737 <h> Perhaps the most famous song she composed and sang , to the lyrics of Ehud Manor , was " Ein Li Eretz Acheret " ( " I Have No Other Land " ) . <p> Corinne Allal , the singer , composer , and guitarist who died after a battle with cancer at the age of 69 , was an Israeli icon whose repertoire of songs not only still resonates but also left a lasting legacy for future generations . Perhaps the most famous song she composed and sang , to the lyrics of legendary songwriter Ehud Manor , was " Ein Li Eretz Acheret " ( " I Have No Other Land " ) . Written in 1982 in the midst of the First Lebanon War , its haunting melody and defiant lyrics are particularly relevant today . Here is the chorus in English : <p> Its primary message is reminiscent of the famous quotation by Golda Meir : " We Jews have a secret weapon in our struggle with the Arabs ; we have no place to go . " But it goes on to pledge , " I will not stay silent because my country changed her face/I will not give up reminding her/And sing in her ears until she will open her eyes . " <p> Although it might have been written to protest a controversial war , it became a national anthem uniting all Israelis -- and all Jews . When Allal sang it at a welcoming ceremony for French immigrants at Ben-Gurion Airport in 2004 , they all knew the words , singing along with her . <p> In 2016 , JTA journalist Cnaan Liphshiz reported that Allal had accompanied ultra-Orthodox singer Lipa Schmeltzer as he sang the song in Yiddish at a conference hall in New York . " An unofficial , feel-good anthem that has been embraced ( or co-opted , depending on your point of view ) by all sides along Israel 's spectrum has again served as a bridge , this time between a haredi Ashkenazi pop star and the Sephardi lesbian Israeli musician who wrote the music , " Liphshiz wrote . <p> Like Bruce Springsteen 's " Born in the USA , " he noted , " the song had such wide appeal that it transcended its own politics and was embraced by all sides -- including settlers who adopted the song as an anthem against the 2005 pullout from Gaza . " <p> " You have touched my heart , " Schmeltzer told Allal , who came out as gay in 2001 , married her personal manager , Ruti Allal , and raised two sons together in Ganot , a moshav in central Israel . " Meetings such as this , of people from two different poles , can truly bring unity . " <p> Allal touched our hearts . She worked with many top Israeli artists throughout her career , including Yehudit Ravitz , a lifelong friend who produced her three albums , Antarctica ( 1989 ) , Sfat Imi ( Mother Tongue , 1990 ) and Zan Nadir ( A Rare Kind , 1992 ) . Together , the duo famously sang Arik Einstein 's classic " Atur Mitzchech , " penned by poet Avraham Halfi , composed by Yoni Rechter , and voted in 2004 as the greatest Israeli love song of all time . <p> The lyrics of " Zan Nadir , " which Allal wrote in Hebrew , beautifully portray the special quality of the people of Israel and of Allal herself : <p> " We are a rare species <p> An odd bird <p> Dreams in the air <p> Head in the ground " <p> Allal goes on to sing , " We mostly fool ourselves/Not blind but not looking/And it 's not clear what we will leave behind . Apart from the fears . " <h> Allal 's musical legacy <p> Allal leaves behind a musical legacy that transcends the barriers that separate us . She reminded us that we have more in common than that what divides us , symbolized for her by the language of Hebrew . She referenced this in " Sfat Imi , " singing , " The sound of my mother tongue still echoes . " <p> But she had another side to her , too , a humorous side . The pathos of " Sfat Imi " contrasted nicely with the humor of " Antarctica , " lyrics of which she also wrote . " No horses speak Hebrew/No people do n't die/Search in the Antarctica/No palace in the middle of the Yarkon Street/No prince lives with me in the room/ No snow in Africa , a-ha a-ha a-ha/Search in the Antarctica . " <p> Allal 's last public appearance was singing " Ein Li Eretz Acheret " with Gali Atari on October 7 at the Bereaved Families Memorial Ceremony at Tel Aviv 's Yarkon Park , where the thousands attending -- including family members of the fallen and relatives of the hostages -- sang along . <p> Her death reminds us that none of us lives forever , and we have to do what we can while we can . But her music will always be with us , raising us up when we 're down . May her memory be blessed . 
@@118847031 <p> More than 1,000 law enforcement officials will be monitoring the Rose Parade and Rose Bowl Game on New Year 's Day to keep crowds safe during Pasadena 's annual celebration . <p> While it is a day of celebration for football fans and community members alike , Pasadena Police Chief Gene Harris said there will be " zero tolerance for shenanigans . " <p> Officials from local , state and federal law enforcement , including more than 250 members of the Pasadena Police Department , will be in attendance . Uniformed and plain-clothed officers will be stationed around the parade route and the stadium to monitor for safety hazards and handle any problems that may arise , Harris said . <p> " There wo n't be any breaks , " he said . " If you come up and ask for a break on something , we 're going to assume you want an arrest . " <p> Harris said officers still want attendees to enjoy the day-long celebration . Throughout the parade route and stadium , he said , attendees will see law enforcement smiling as they enjoy the festivities , too . <p> " It 's a day that we welcome the world to Pasadena , " said Pasadena Mayor Victor Gordo . <p> The city expects restaurants and hotels to be filled with community members and visitors celebrating . Gordo recommended that anyone planning to grab a meal or stay in the area make reservations in advance . <p> Planning for the parade and bowl game begins the year prior to ensure attendees have a safe experience , Gordo said . <p> At last year 's parade , a woman in her 20s rammed into a barricade at Colorado Boulevard and Chester Avenue . The barriers set up in the area stopped the woman , but if she were successful , officials said she could have injured numerous parade watchers . <p> Police arrested the woman for suspected assault with a deadly weapon , and her vehicle sustained significant damage from the crash . <p> Harris said police presence at the parade and the barricades allowed them to stop the assault before anyone was hurt . Law enforcement will continue to patrol the area and pay attention to make sure they prevent any other safety hazards . <p> Just blocks away , last year 's parade was also interrupted for about 15 minutes , when a group of Pasadena interfaith communities led a pro-Palestinian protest calling for a ceasefire in Gaza before peacefully dispersing under police orders . <p> No arrests were made . <p> The 136th annual Rose Parade 's theme is " Best Day Ever , " celebrating friends , family , community and the happiest moments in life , said Tournament of Roses President David Eads . Grand Finale performances will include singers Debbie Gibson and Betty Who and the Debbie Allen Dance Academy , and the parade will feature traditional floral floats , marching bands , equestrian units and musical performances . <p> In the Rose Bowl , Oregon will face off against the winner of a Dec. 21 game between Ohio State and Tennessee . <p> On New Year 's Eve , visitors can arrive and claim spots along Colorado Boulevard starting at noon to watch the parade the following day . <p> The Pasadena Fire Department along with around 15 other fire agencies will also be monitoring the parade route and stadium for illegal bonfires that can spread to structure fires or injure or kill others . <p> " Here we are in December , and we 're still dealing with major brush fires , " said Fire Chief Chad Augustin . " We only have to look to our neighbors in Malibu and the Franklin Fire , how devastating that 's been . " <p> Attendees are allowed to have small professionally manufactured barbecues that are elevated at least one foot off the ground , if they are kept at least 25 feet away from buildings . Fire officials recommend anyone with a barbecue also have a fire extinguisher on hand just in case . <p> Augustin reminded attendees to dress in layers , bring gloves and beanies and stay hydrated , as officials expect frigid temperatures overnight and warmer temperatures during the day . <p> Parking lots at the Rose Bowl Stadium will open at 4 a.m. on New Year 's Day , where visitors can pay to park and walk to the parade route , said stadium CEO Jens Weiden . The stadium 's public Fan Fest celebration will start at 9 a.m. , and gates will open at 11:30 a.m . Ticketholders are asked to take their seats by 1 p.m. for pre-game festivities before kickoff . <p> The city website will also have a schedule for when attendees can arrive to camp out and where they can park . <p> Attendees should double check for temporary no-parking signs and other restrictions before they park . Vehicles blocking emergency travel lanes or in restricted areas at the stadium or along the parade route will be towed at the owner 's expense . 
@@118869424 <h> Father and infant son buried together after an Israeli strike that killed dozens in Gaza <p> " This is a human liver , a liver , " Akram Bayoumi said as he picked up a limp , charred scrap of flesh from the wreckage of an Israeli airstrike on Nuseirat , in central Gaza . <p> The overnight strike on a residential block leveled homes , reduced streets to rubble , and killed at least 36 people , tearing some of them apart . " The sunrise came at night , " he said , referring to the flash of Thursday 's explosion . <p> Bayoumi had come to check on his cousin only to find " flesh and body parts , " and his cousin 's family , including his wife and son , buried beneath the rubble . <p> " I swear , we do n't understand anything . " <p> A boy walks through the aftermath of the Israeli strike on Nuseirat . EYAD BABA / AFP - Getty Images <p> Mokhtar Abou Ayaman Elshaar , who lives nearby and rushed to the scene after the strike , said he and other rescuers searched for the wounded and dead using their cellphone flashlights . <p> They heard the screams and pleas of those buried under the rubble , he said . Without equipment , there was nothing they could do but listen until they went silent . <p> Elshaar struggled to find words for the compounded losses -- families erased , lives lost and a community left to grapple yet another devastating attack , of which there are likely to be more . <p> " It was an indescribable hard night , like a dream , a fantasy , " he said . " What we witnessed last night is beyond any imagination . " <p> The Israeli Defense Forces said the airstrike targeted a " senior terrorist in the Islamic Jihad " responsible for leading attacks against Israeli civilians and IDF troops , and that it is reviewing reports of civilian casualties . <p> Health officials said Saturday that Israeli airstrikes had killed 18 people , including seven during an attack on a school sheltering displaced Palestinians . They said women and children were among the dead , including a baby girl who was only 2 days old . <p> The Israeli military did not immediately respond to a request for comment . <p> For the children who do survive , the wounds are far more than just physical . <p> An assessment published this week by a Gaza-based NGO sponsored by War Child UK found that 96% of children in Gaza feel their death is imminent . Half have said they wanted to die . <p> A child was tucked under a puffy orange coat , as she lay bloodied and dead , piled on top of other bodies at the morgue . A man stroked the round cheek of another dead child , and two others , tiny enough to be fit into a single stretcher , were carried by the crowd for burial . <p> Wrapped together in a red blanket that would become their death shroud , Fadi Al-Bayoumi 's infant son , Ali , lies on his father 's chest , pale and motionless . <p> The scene , NBC 's Gaza crew said , was haunting and almost impossible to process . For the dozens of people weeping and mourning over the dead that day , the grief was no less raw for its regularity . <p> The sound of fighter jets and quadcopters are always over Nuseirat , Mokthar Elshaar , the neighbor , said . <p> " It 's not a bloody week , not a bloody year and two months . Nuseirat has been dying every day silently , " he said . " We were not displaced from Nuseirat , but we are being annihilated . " 
@@118870126 <h> Gazans injured in war live with disabilities but little medical support <p> A general view of Al-Mawasi , Khan Younis in the southern Gaza Strip on Dec. 5 , 2024 . <p> Habboub Ramez/ABACA/Shutterstock <p> KHAN YOUNIS , Gaza -- The humanitarian crisis and ongoing conflict in Gaza has left in its wake thousands of people with life-altering disabilities . <p> The ongoing conflict between Hamas and Israel , coupled with Gaza 's crumbling health care infrastructure , has created what some describe as insurmountable challenges for those injured during the violence . <p> About 25% of the people who have sustained injuries in the conflict -- an estimated 22,500 people -- now require long-term rehabilitation , according to the World Health Organization . More than 106,000 people have been injured in Gaza since the war began , according to the Hamas-controlled Health Ministry . <p> But in Gaza , where medical resources are already stretched to the breaking point , even basic rehabilitation services remain out of reach . <p> Many disabled individuals face not only physical pain but also profound psychological scars and societal rejection in Gaza , international and local medical professionals said . With limited access to medical care , psychological support , and assistive devices , they are often left to navigate life with disabilities that forever alter their futures . <p> Palestinians mourn next to the bodies of their relatives who were killed in an Israeli airstrike , west of Khan Younis in the southern Gaza Strip , Dec. 12 , 2024 . <p> " In any circumstances , recovering from an extensive injury and attending physical rehabilitation takes an enormous amount of psychological strength . To do this in a conflict zone -- where accessing mobility aids , appropriate transportation , or any at all , physiotherapy sessions , proper nutrition , and rest is very difficult -- takes a severe toll on every individual experiencing it , " International Committee of the Red Cross spokesperson Hisham Mhanna told ABC News in an interview . <p> In the more than a year since Israel began its retaliatory war against Hamas , the terrorist group that attacked southern Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , killing some 1,200 people and taking about 250 hostage , much of Gaza has been destroyed by airstrikes , according to the United Nations . Nearly 100 hostages remain missing in Gaza with about two-thirds believed to be alive . <p> About 60% of all buildings in Gaza have been destroyed , a U.N . agency said in September . The Strip 's hospital system has " collapsed , " a spokesperson for M ? decins Sans Fronti ? res ( MSF ) , or Doctors Without Borders , told ABC News in October . Nineteen of the 36 hospitals and nine field hospitals formerly operating in Gaza were still partially functioning , the WHO said at the time . <p> Ahmed Al Haw , 17 , a displaced person living in Khan Younis , a city in southern Gaza , said he is among those whose lives have been irreversibly changed . Al Haw was injured in front of Nasser Hospital in Khan Younis while visiting a sick relative . His family 's trip turned into a nightmare when a bomb exploded near their car . <p> " My grandfather 's leg was amputated , and as the injury developed , he passed away . My mother and sister were also injured . I lost my eye and part of my foot , " Al Haw said . <p> For Al Haw , the aftermath of the explosion has been almost as unbearable as the injuries themselves . He has been thrust into a reality where even the simplest tasks are a struggle . The physical pain is unrelenting , but it pales in comparison to the psychological toll he endures , he said . <p> " At the beginning of the injury , I was in a state of depression . I did n't eat at all . One time , I even thought about committing suicide , " he said . <p> Gaza 's health care system lacks the resources to adequately address the needs of the disabled , the World Health Organization said in a recent press release announcing the publication of an analysis of the medical situation in Gaza . There is a lack of medical supplies , including prosthetics , wheelchairs and essential medications to treat people with injuries that have left them disabled , the press release said . Hospitals are overwhelmed , understaffed , and under-resourced . <p> " Accessing proper prosthetics and mobility aids is difficult in Gaza , where there are shortages of everything , including critical medical drugs and supplies . The focus of medical staff is on saving lives , as it must be in any emergency , but this leaves gaps in the post-recovery care in many areas . " Mhanna said . <p> Medical aid has accounted for about 2.5% by weight of all aid that 's been brought in Gaza since the conflict began about 14 months ago , according to the Coordination of Government Activities in the Territories , the Israeli ministry overseeing the flow of food , medical aid and other supplies into Gaza . About 28,918 tons of medical aid have crossed into the Strip , according to COGAT data . <p> " Israel actively and continuously operates to facilitate the increase of the medical response in Gaza , " COGAT says on its website . " This is done in close coordination with humanitarian aid organizations specializing in health services , and donor countries . " <p> The most common injuries medical staff see are " loss of limbs " from bombings and shrapnel , said Dr. Sami Owaimer , director of the Physiotherapy and Rehabilitation Unit at the Ministry of Health in Gaza . <p> A general view of Al-Mawasi , Khan Younis in the southern Gaza Strip on Dec. 5 , 2024 . <p> Habboub Ramez/ABACA/Shutterstock <p> " The most common injuries we see are the loss of limbs due to explosions and shrapnel , alongside eye injuries that lead to blindness and spinal injuries resulting in paralysis . These wounds often cause permanent deformities and profoundly alter lives , " Owaimer said . <p> Rehabilitation , a critical step in recovery , is virtually non-existent in Gaza . The region lacks specialized centers , modern equipment and trained professionals to provide comprehensive care . As a result , many disabled individuals are left without the tools or support needed to adapt to their new realities . <p> " There is a glaring lack of specialized rehabilitation centers and modern equipment , such as prosthetics and movement training devices , " Owaimer said . " Comprehensive programs that integrate physical , psychological and social services are desperately needed . " <p> For Al Haw , the psychological impact of his injuries is compounded by the stigma he faces from society , he said . <p> " Society does not accept me , " he said . " When I walk slowly on crutches , people start shouting at me , ' Hurry up ! ' One time , I fell to the ground . I cry every day . I have nightmares every night . I feel very lonely . I 've become mentally ill in addition to being physically and visually disabled . " <p> The lack of psychological support exacerbates the suffering of those like Al Haw . Many patients , particularly young people , find themselves battling depression and anxiety with no professional guidance or emotional support . <p> " Adapting to life with a disability is a significant challenge , " Owaimer said . " While some programs offer psychological and social rehabilitation , the lack of resources limits their reach and effectiveness . " <p> The societal challenges faced by people with disabilities in Gaza , limited facilities , lack of accessibility and entrenched stigma leave many feeling isolated and marginalized . Al Haw described this isolation as being particularly painful . As the oldest of seven siblings , he said he feels a deep responsibility to support his family , especially with his father imprisoned in an Israeli jail . <p> " I 've lost my feet and my sight , the most precious things I had . My dreams have deteriorated . I ca n't support my mother and sisters . My future is completely unknown , " he said . <p> Despite the obstacles he faces , Al Haw keeps going , driven by his love for his family . <p> " Because of my family , I am struggling to continue living . I want to have a good future , to support my family in the absence of my father , " he said . <p> " These individuals are not just numbers -- they are human beings with rights who deserve dignity , education , and proper rehabilitation , " Owaimer said . <p> " In the chaos of conflict , many people with disabilities are forgotten , " Mhanna , of the Red Cross , said . " But they are civilians and receive special protection under international humanitarian law . People with disabilities , and the different challenges and needs they have , must be taken into account by parties to a conflict during active hostilities . " 
@@118870537 <p> Speaking at a press conference in the Jordanian city Aqaba , Blinken said that America and its allies ' have an important stake in helping the Syrian people chart this new path . ' <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> US Secretary of State Antony Blinken has said he has been in " direct contact " with the Hayat Tahrir al-Sham rebel group and laid out the principles for ongoing support for Syria 's political transition . <p> Speaking at a press conference in the Jordanian city Aqaba , Blinken said that America and its allies " have an important stake in helping the Syrian people chart this new path . " <p> " ISIS and other terrorist groups still maintain presence in Syria , and want to use this period of uncertainty to try to regain a foothold . No one understands these challenges better than Syrian people themselves . And Syrians know they are going to need support from their neighbours and from the international community to meet these challenges , " he said . <p> Those comments come less than a week after insurgents , led by HTS , marched into Damascus and toppled Bashar al-Assad , who had ruled Syria with an iron fist for 24 years . <p> Since then , HTS has worked to establish security and start a political transition . But the group has also tried to reassure a public concerned about extremist jihadis among the rebels . <p> Insurgent leaders say the group has broken with its extremist past , though HTS is still proscribed a terrorist group by the United States and European countries . The group previously had ties to Al-Qaeda . <p> " In this region and elsewhere , we 've seen how the fall of a repressive regime can swiftly give way to more conflict and chaos , how the shoes of one dictator can be filled by another , or how interference by an outside country can be thrown off only to be replaced by another , " Blinken said . <p> " That 's why it 's so important that we and our partners came together today to agree on principles that will guide our efforts to help the Syrian people meet these challenges and build the inclusive , non-sectarian , peaceful and sovereign state they want . " <p> Syrian rebels celebrate during a demonstration following the first Friday prayers since Bashar al-Assad 's ouster in Damascus , 13 December , 2024Hussein Malla/Copyright 2024 The AP . All right reserved <h> Gaza ceasefire <p> And speaking earlier in Jordan , Blinken also urged Israel and Hamas to conclude a ceasefire and hostage-return deal during a final diplomatic push on a tour of the Middle East . <p> Blinken said that " this is a moment to bring this to an end . " <p> " For Hamas , as I said before , the cavalry is not coming to the rescue . They are not going to get the wider war that they 've long sought , " he said . <p> " And Israel , as I said some time ago , achieved its core military objectives necessary to helping ensure that October 7th never happens again . " <p> A ceasefire would give outgoing President Joe Biden a final diplomatic victory after a turbulent term in which his administration has been unable to halt a brutal war that has claimed tens of thousands of lives in Gaza and plunged the territory into a humanitarian crisis . <p> Israelis protest against Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's government and call for the release of hostages held in Gaza , 14 December , 2024Tsafrir Abayov/Copyright 2024 The AP . All rights reserved . <p> President-elect Donald Trump has demanded the immediate release of hostages , threatening on social media that otherwise there would be " HELL TO PAY " and has urged the US not to get involved in Syria , where some 900 troops are based to combat the Islamic State militant group . <p> Blinken is wrapping up a three-country regional tour in Aqaba after visiting Iraq , T ? rkiye and Jordan once already this week to discuss Gaza and the evolving situation in Syria . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> It is likely that this will be his final trip to the Middle East as Secretary of State before the US administration changes in January . <h> Gaza City strike <p> Blinken 's comments in Jordan come on the same day that Palestinian medical officials said at least seven people were killed in an Israeli air strike in Gaza City . <p> The strike hit the Majda Wasilla school , which shelters many displaced families in the western side of Gaza City , according to the al-Ahly Baptist Hospital . <p> The strike also wounded 12 others , said the hospital which received the casualties . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Among the dead was a woman and her two-day-old girl and the woman 's sister , said Etaf Saadat , a displaced women sheltering in the school . <p> " The strike happened and we did not see anything in front of us , who was martyred and who was not , " Saadat said . 
@@118871130 <h> Israel bombards schools and homes in Gaza , a day after Nuseirat massacre <p> Israel has killed at least 52 people over past day as it continues to target civilians , hitting two Gaza City schools . <p> A Palestinian child on the rubble left by an Israeli strike on Nuseirat refugee camp , on December 13 , 2024 Ramadan Abed /Reuters <p> Published On 14 Dec 202414 Dec 2024 <p> Israel is still attacking homes and schools across the Gaza Strip , killing and injuring several people just one day after dozens were massacred in a strike on Nuseirat camp . <p> Dawn raids on Saturday killed four members of the Saadallah family in their home in Jabalia , two people in a school northeast of Gaza City and one person sheltering in a tent south of Khan Younis , Palestinian news agency Wafa said . <p> Later that day , the military killed seven people in a strike on Al-Majida Wasila School in the northern Al-Rimal neighborhood west of Gaza City , according to Wafa . <p> The news agency also reported a drone attack on a group of civilians at the Jalaa Junction northwest of Gaza City , which killed one woman and injured several others . Another civilian was killed in an airstrike west of Al-Nuseirat camp . <p> A further five citizens were injured in a drone attack on the Al-Mawasi area west of Rafah city . <h> ' Constant attack ' <p> The attacks took place just one day after Israel killed at least 36 people , most from the al-Sheikh Ali family in the Nuseirat refugee camp , leading to widespread condemnation . <p> Advertisement <p> In northern Gaza , which has been under an even tighter siege over the past two months , Israeli forces blew up buildings and burned dozens of homes in and around Beit Lahiya while firing at Kamal Adwan Hospital , according to Wafa . <p> The Israeli military , he said , was trying to take ambulances out of service . <p> " At the same time , they are trying to exert more pressure on medical teams who are still trapped in Kamal Adwan Hospital , " he said . <p> The director of the hospital 's intensive care unit was killed in a drone strike last month . <h> Ethnic cleansing ? <p> Abu Azzoum also said Jabalia , Beit Lahiya and Beit Hanoon in the north of the Strip were " under constant attack by the Israeli ground forces , which have continued operations for more than 17 days so far " . <p> Israel has imposed a total siege on several neighbourhoods in northern Gaza , prompting accusations that it is pushing to permanently displace Palestinians and ethnically cleanse the area . <p> Muhannad Hadi , United Nations humanitarian coordinator for the occupied Palestinian territory , decried in a statement on Friday the " rapidly deteriorating security and humanitarian situation " in Gaza . <p> " In recent days , multiple strikes across the Gaza Strip have resulted in scores of reported fatalities and numerous injuries , " he said . <p> Advertisement <p> " Women and children continue to be among the casualties . Such incidents are further reminders of the unbearable human cost of the conflict . " 
@@118871333 <p> The Israeli Air Force carried out about 480 strikes targeting most of the country 's strategic weapon stockpiles left behind after rebels forced Syrian leader Bashar Assad to flee the country . <p> About 350 of the strikes were crewed aircraft targeting Syrian military assets , including aircraft , ammunition depots , storage facilities , and missile and radar systems . The Israeli Navy also destroyed several military vessels docked at two Syrian naval ports . The Israeli army seized strategic positions in the Golan Heights abandoned by Syrian troops . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Israeli officials said the extensive strikes on Syria were intended to prevent the Assad government 's military infrastructure and weapons from being used by extremists and potential foes . Israel is exploiting the Assad regime 's fall to enhance its security in the long term as it uses blistering force to cripple Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon . <p> The fall of Assad <p> An opposition fighter celebrated as rebels burn down a military court in Damascus , Syria.Hussein Malla/AP <p> After a decadeslong dictatorship , rebel forces seized control of the Syrian capital of Damascus over the weekend , forcing Assad to relinquish power and flee the country . <p> " We declare Damascus free from the tyrant Bashar al-Assad , " Hassan Abdul-Ghani , commander of the militant group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , wrote in a post on social media . " To the displaced people around the world , free Syria awaits you . " <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Former Syrian prime minister Ghazi al-Jalali remained in the country after the collapse of the Assad regime , saying the government is willing to cooperate and support " any leadership chosen by the Syrian people . " <p> Creating a ' sterile defense zone ' <p> A boy carried an unexploded Rocket Propelled Grenade ( RPG ) at the site of the Israeli airstrike that targeted Syrian weapon shipments.DELIL SOULEIMAN/AFP via Getty Images <p> While Israel supported ousting Assad , a staunch ally of Iran , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said the situation in Syria is still " fraught with significant dangers " from the extremists now governing the country . <p> In the days after the dayslong rebel offensive ousted the Syrian dictator , Israel launched hundreds of strikes targeting Syrian military assets over 48 hours to prevent them " from falling into the hands of terrorist elements . " HTS publicly split with the Al Qaeda affiliate from which it formed , but US officials believe it may still have links to Al Qaeda leaders . <p> " We have no intention of interfering in Syria 's internal affairs , but we clearly intend to do what is necessary to ensure our security , " Netanyahu said . <p> " I authorized the air force to bomb strategic military capabilities left by the Syrian army so that they would not fall into the hands of the jihadists , " he said , adding that Israel " would like to form relations with the new regime in Syria . " <p> The IDF said the strikes were part of a larger-scale mission known as Operation Bashan Arrow , intended to create a " sterile defense zone " by neutralizing potential threats from the neighboring country . <p> Israeli forces attacked key Syrian naval facilities in the port cities of Al-Bayda and Latakia late Tuesday , where more than a dozen Syrian naval vessels were docked . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Photos of the decimated port showed half-submerged Syrian warships . Some of the damaged vessels were Osa-class missile boats , Soviet-era vessels whose 30mm turrets and mounted missile launchers could be seen in the wreckage . <p> The Syrian navy , the smallest branch of the country 's armed forces , operated over a dozen of the high-speed -- albeit outdated -- vessels developed by the Soviet Union in the 1960s . <p> Israeli defense minister , Israel Katz said Israeli Navy missile ships " destroyed Syria 's navy overnight and with great success . " It 's not clear how many Syrian vessels were destroyed by Israeli warships in the overnight attack . <p> Satellite images of Latakia , a former stronghold of Assad , showed the charred wreckage of the naval ships . The IDF wrote in a post on X that " dozens of sea-to-sea missiles " with " significant explosive payloads " were also destroyed . <p> The IAF carried out an airstrike on the Mezzeh Air Base in Damascus , once a key stronghold of the Assad regime 's air force . <p> At least three major Syrian army air bases were attacked by Israeli warplanes , damaging dozens of helicopters and fighter jets , The Times of Israel reported . Locals living near the bases said they heard several explosions after the Israeli strikes appeared to ignite the ammunition stored there , the Associated Press reported . <p> Dismantling Syrian military infrastructure <p> An air defense radar was set ablaze after Israeli airstrikes target Mezzeh Air Base in Damascus , Syria.Ali Haj Suleiman/Getty Images <p> In addition to decimating Syria 's aerial and naval fleet , the IDF said it carried out strikes on 130 military assets , such as firing positions , antiaircraft batteries , missile and radar systems , and weapons production sites . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Crippling Syria 's chemical weapons infrastructure <p> A military research center affiliated with the Syrian defense ministry was destroyed by an Israeli airstrike.OMAR HAJ KADOUR/AFP via Getty Images <p> Israeli forces also destroyed the Syrian Scientific Studies and Research Center in Damascus , a key facility thought to be testing and operating the country 's covert chemical and biological weapons programs under the Assad regime . <p> The Barzeh facility was previously bombarded in 2018 by US , UK , and French forces in response to a poison sarin gas attack in Douma , Syria . The US found Assad 's government responsible for the April 2018 chemical warfare attack that killed at least 40 people and injured over 100 . <p> However , the head of the center 's polymers department told Reuters at the time that the facility , now reduced to rubble , was used to research medicinal components that could n't be imported , such as anti-venom and cancer treatments . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> ' Changing the face of the Middle East ' <p> Israeli military forces crossed the fence from the buffer zone with Syria in Golan Heights.JALAA MAREY/AFP via Getty Images <p> The fall of the Syrian regime weakens Iran 's regional influence and could pose logistical and strategic challenges to Iran 's regional proxies like the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah . <p> " The collapse of the Syrian regime is a direct result of the severe blows with which we have struck Hamas , Hezbollah , and Iran , " Netanyahu said during a Monday press conference . " The axis has not yet disappeared , but as I promised -- we are changing the face of the Middle East . " <p> Despite the widespread strikes across Syria , Israeli military officials said the country 's armed forces were operating beyond the Israeli-occupied demilitarized buffer zone in Golan Heights but not toward the Syrian capital . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> " IDF forces are not advancing towards Damascus . This is not something we are doing or pursuing in any way , " IDF spokesperson Nadav Shoshani said at a briefing . " We are not involved in what 's happening in Syria internally , we are not a side in this conflict , and we do not have any interest other than protecting our borders and the security of our citizens . " <p> Katz , Israel 's defense minister , said the country was advancing beyond Golan Heights to impose a " security zone free of heavy strategic weapons and terrorist infrastructures " in southern Syria . <p> " With regard to what will be in the future , I 'm not a prophet , " Katz said . " It is important right now to take all necessary steps in the context of the security of Israel . " 
@@118879123 <h> In an interview with Yaara Bank Plotkin , Michal Magen shared her experiences : " We want to create a strong future . " <p> Michal Magen , Co-Community Manager of Kibbutz Nahal Oz , recently shared her firsthand account of the October 7 attack during an interview with Yaara Bank Plotkin , President of the Jerusalem Post Miami Summit . The interview provided insight into the devastating experience Magen and her community endured as the Hamas terrorists launched an assault on their kibbutz near the border . <p> Magen 's community suffered severe losses , with fifteen members killed , including entire families . Despite the overwhelming tragedy , Magen remains hopeful for the future . After the attack , she was appointed to lead the efforts to rebuild . <p> " We are broken , " Magen admitted , but her vision is clear , as she stated that the community is looking at the future : " We to rebuild it into the best place in the world , we want to create a strong future for our families and new residents . " <p> Magen went on to recall the harrowing early hours of October 7 , which saw the Simchat Torah morning quickly escalating into an all-out attack . " We understood very fast that we were under massive attack , " she said . As the terrorists breached the kibbutz , Magen and her family retreated to their safe room , but their safety was far from guaranteed . <p> The family was left without electricity , water , or internet , isolated and uncertain of the situation outside . Amid the chaos , Magen faced a moment of pure terror , thinking she might never see her children again . " I thought about my older daughters , that maybe I 'm going to say goodbye , " she reflected . The horror outside continued until the evening , with bombs and violence affecting the kibbutz all day long . <p> Magen mentioned the kibbutz members that are still held hostage in Gaza , Omri Miran and Tzachi Idan , emphasizing the unwavering commitment to bring them home . " This is our mission , " she said , " and we can achieve it together . Rebuilding will be our response to the events of October 7 , showing that we will rise stronger , not just for ourselves , but for all of Israel . " <p> Bank Plotkin concluded their conversation and expressed her will to witness and visit the rebuilt Kibbutz , urging the attendees to do the same . 
@@118879124 <h> Read more on three athletes who went pro in Israel . <p> Nikki Bick , Rachel Dallet and Ryan Turell each made aliyah in 2024 to play professional sports in Israel . ( photo credit : Courtesy ; Turell via Amit Smikt ; Design by Grace Yagel ) <p> ( JTA ) -- This article was sent as a newsletter . Sign up for our weekly Jewish sports newsletter here . <p> Hi there ! It was a historic week for Jews in sports , from Max Fried 's record-breaking contract with the New York Yankees to the likely first-ever instance of three Jewish hockey players appearing on the same team in an NHL game . <p> Read on for more on all the above , plus our lead story about Jewish athletes going pro in Israel . <p> After two seasons in the NBA 's G League , Ryan Turell joined Ironi Ness Ziona this year . ( credit : JTA/Amit Smikt ) <h> Meet three American Jews who went pro in Israel during the war <p> Ryan Turell and Nikki Bick both played basketball at Yeshiva University , with dreams of bigger things . Now , the pair are each playing professionally in Israel , for the men 's and women 's teams , respectively , of Ironi Ness Ziona . <p> For them , as well as soccer player Rachel Dallet , the draw of going pro in Israel was strong , even during a war . All three made aliyah in recent months , inspired both by a Jewish sense of belonging and the chance to continue their athletic careers at an elite level . <p> " It 's always been a dream of mine to play basketball in Israel professionally , ever since I was in high school and I was thinking maybe playing professionally can happen , " Turell told me . " I always wanted to do it . " <p> I caught up with the three athletes to hear about their immigration experiences and how they 're adjusting to a new language , culture and playbook -- both on the field , or court , and off . <h> Halftime report <p> GOING LIVE . " September 5 , " the new drama that retells the story of the 1972 Munich Olympics massacre , during which 11 Israelis were murdered by terrorists after being taken hostage in the Olympic Village , hits theaters this week . The film , which is drawing awards buzz , spotlights the ABC Sports broadcast team that covered the attack live . Check out our interview with the film 's director . <p> ICYMI . Thanks to those who joined us on Tuesday for our online event marking the 75th anniversary of the City College basketball championship and scandal ! I had a fascinating conversation with author Matthew Goodman -- if you missed it , you can watch the recording here . <p> REFUAH SHLEIMAH . The baseball world is rallying around Jonah Rosenthal , a Jewish scout for the Los Angeles Dodgers who suffered a stroke on Tuesday . A GoFundMe set up by Rosenthal 's wife had raised over $75,000 in the first two days , exceeding its $60,000 goal . <p> WANDERING JEW . Team Israel alum Spencer Horwitz experienced quite the rollercoaster ride on Tuesday . The infielder , who made his MLB debut in 2023 , was traded twice in a matter of hours , first from the Toronto Blue Jays to the Cleveland Guardians , and then from the Guardians to the Pittsburgh Pirates . Most of us will never make it to the big leagues , but at least Horwitz can say he was on three MLB teams in one day ! <p> HIS NAME STILL IS N'T COHEN . Former star **26;1777;TOOLONG David Cone is not Jewish , but his partner and son Sammy are . Check out these photos from Sammy 's bar mitzvah , including the five-time World Series champion and perfect game hurler donning a prayer shawl . <p> THIS ISRAELI HAPPENING . Veteran outfielder Kevin Pillar has announced that he not only intends to continue playing in the Major Leagues next season , but that he also plans to compete in the 2026 World Baseball Classic . Pillar had committed to playing for Team Israel in 2023 but had to back out to focus on winning a roster spot in Spring Training ( which he did , for the Braves ) . Pillar told me last summer that he hopes to represent Israel in 2026 whether or not he 's still in the league . <p> RED CARD . The Premier League club Arsenal is investigating an employee over a string of antisemitic social media posts . A since-deleted X account associated with equipment staffer Mark Bonnick had interacted with several Jewish users , including posting about " Jewish supremacy " and accusing Israel of ethnic cleansing in Gaza . <h> Max Fried makes Jewish MLB history <p> Ace pitcher Max Fried entered the baseball offseason as one of the most coveted free agents on the market . On Tuesday , he got his payday , signing an eight-year , $218 million contract with the New York Yankees . <p> The deal is the largest-ever for a Jewish player , and biggest overall for a left-handed pitcher in raw numbers in baseball history . The 30-year-old has a 3.07 ERA in 151 career starts and is a two-time All-Star , a three-time Gold Glove winner , a Silver Slugger winner and a 2021 World Series champion . <p> Fried is also a Los Angeles native who grew up worshipping Hall of Famer , and fellow Jewish Dodger southpaw , Sandy Koufax . Now Fried could spend the rest of his career playing in the city with the most Jews in the world . He joins fellow Jewish pitcher Scott Effross on a Yankees team that features bench coach Brad Ausmus and multiple highly-touted Jewish prospects , including flamethrowing pitcher Eric Reyzelman . <h> Jews in sports to watch this weekend ( all times ET ) <p> ? IN SOCCER ... <p> Manor Solomon and Leeds United play Preston Saturday at 7:30 a.m . The squad is in second place in the Championship and has won four of its past five games . Matt Turner and his Premier League club Crystal Palace take on Brighton Sunday at 9 a.m . <p> IN HOCKEY ... <p> Jakob Chychrun and the Washington Capitals host Jason Zucker and the Buffalo Sabres Saturday at 7 p.m . The Vancouver Canucks and their three Jewish players -- Quinn Hughes , Mark Friedman and Max Sasson , likely the first Jewish trio to appear in a game for the same team -- host Jeremy Swayman and the Boston Bruins Saturday at 10 p.m . Jordan Harris and the Columbus Blue Jackets face the Carolina Hurricanes Sunday at 5 p.m . There are no PWHL games this weekend . <p> IN FOOTBALL ... <p> Michael Dunn and the Cleveland Browns host the Kansas City Chiefs Sunday at 1 p.m . <p> IN BASKETBALL ... <p> Deni Avdija and the Portland Trail Blazers host the San Antonio Spurs tonight at 10 p.m. and face the Phoenix Suns Sunday at 8 p.m . In the G League , Amari Bailey and the Long Island Nets face the Capital City Go-Go Sunday at 3 p.m . <p> Fantasy baseball <p> After Fried signed , Alex Bregman remains one of the top available players on the free agent market . He 's joined by fellow Jews Pillar , Joc Pederson , Harrison Bader and Rowdy Tellez , each of whom is also looking for a new team . <p> Have a prediction about where these Jewish stars will sign ? Email us at sports@jta.org with your official picks -- feel free to include years/dollar amounts if you 're so bold -- and we 'll shout out the closest guesses when the players sign ! 
@@118879131 <h> Seven people have already appeared in court , with another six still to appear . The WhatsApp group was centrally featured in the prosecution 's statements during the trial . <p> As the trial of several people accused of being involved in the riots that rocked Amsterdam last month started on Wednesday , a WhatsApp group emerged as one of the main vectors that spread calls for violence . <p> The group , known as " Buurthuis 2 " ( Community Center 2 ) , originally called " Free Palstine , " sic was one of the main sources of calls for violence against Maccabi Tel Aviv fans and Israelis in the city , according to reports from Het Parool . <p> The defendants in the trial are accused of various crimes ranging from incitement to manslaughter . <p> The prosecution is sourcing much of the evidence from the group , in which members posted messages organizing people to confront Maccabi fans . <p> Someone calling themselves " Abu Obaida , " the nom de guerre of Hamas 's spokesperson , called for members to do something against the Maccabi fans . The same account began posting photos of Maccabi fans , provoking anger . Israeli Maccabi Tel Aviv supporters demonstrate and light flares as a policeman patrols the area in Amsterdam , Netherlands , November 7 , 2024 , in this screengrab obtained from a social media video . ( credit : Michel Van Bergen/via REUTERS ) <p> Following the posting of a video showing Maccabi fans removing a Palestinian flag , the Abou Oubaida account posts , " We are so weak . I 'm done with this . I 'm going to call people and go to Dam Square . F***ing Zionists . " <p> Dutch police told Het Parool that they monitor many such groups and that , in the vast majority of cases , there is a lot of talk but little action . <h> Calls for violence against Maccabi fans <p> Following the assault of a taxi driver by alleged Maccabi fans , many taxi drivers joined the WhatsApp group , with one calling on them to " ' Drive your taxi down Arena Boulevard into those people . " <p> Other accounts posted calls for members to " hit them hard , " while another declares there must be " at least one death . " <p> One messenger called on people to " humiliate " the Maccabi fans and make them cry for " everything they did in Palestine . " <p> " In this case , there was no evidence of ... a terrorist intent , and the violence was not motivated by antisemitic sentiment . The violence was influenced by the situation in Gaza , not by antisemitism , " the prosecutor said . <p> Seven people have already appeared in court , with another six still to appear , three of them minors . 
@@118902537 <h> Son of Trump 's special envoy to Mideast gives ultimate tribute to The Donald : ' Great , beautiful and successful life ' <p> " Congratulations to Zach and Sophi Witkoff on the birth of their son , Don James Witkoff ( DJW ) , named after me ( Thank you ! ) , " Trump , 78 , revealed on Truth Social . <p> Don James is the grandson of Steve Witkoff , a longtime Trump real-estate buddy from New York City who is on tap to be the prez-elect 's special Mideast rep . <p> " I wish them the best today , the day of DJW 's Bris , " Trump added of Don James ' parents and the baby . " Don will have a great , beautiful , and successful life . This will be , because of him , a very important date as the years go by ! " <p> Trump was golfing with Witkoff , 67 , on the day of the second major assassination attempt against him in September . <p> Within a week of his 2024 electoral victory , Trump announced that he would designate Witkoff as his special envoy to the Middle East , teeing up his longtime friend to help deal with the region at a tumultuous time . <p> During Trump 's re-election campaign , Witkoff was already playing the role of peacemaker , reaching out to former 2024 GOP hopeful Nikki Haley in a bid to mend fences between her and Trump . <p> " His best friend , Steve Witkoff , came to our house in South Carolina , spoke to me and my husband , and basically wanted a truce between me and Donald Trump , " Haley recounted on her SiriusXM show , " Nikki Haley Live , " last month . <p> Zach Witkoff , here giving his dad Steve a hug at July 's National Republican Convention , just named his son after Trump . Bloomberg via Getty Images <p> " I told him at the time there was no truce needed , that Trump had my support . There was no issues on my end . At that point , he was like , ' What do you want ? Tell me what you want . Is there anything you want ? ' I said , ' There 's nothing I want . ' " <p> Some outside observers and strategists believed at the time that Haley would be able to help Trump shore up support among key blocs of voters where his support was soft -- such as suburban women . <p> Witkoff , who is the founder and CEO of the real-estate firm Witkoff Group , donated to Trump 's campaign during the 2024 contest . <p> Zach , who spoke at the convention , named his kid Don James . Getty Images <p> In terms of the Mideast , over the summer , Witkoff hailed Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's speech to a joint session of Congress , calling the address " strong " and " epic , " while bashing the handful of Democrats who boycotted it . <p> Trump has been stacking his next administration with stalwart allies of Israel , which finds itself still battling Hamas in the Gaza Strip . <p> The Israel allies-turned-designees include proposed Ambassador to Israel Mike Huckabee and suggested US Ambassador to the United Nations Elise Stefanik , a congresswoman from New York who has been a proud defender of Trump during her time in the House . <p> Witkoff has already begun prepping for his new role as Middle East envoy . He recently embarked on a visit to Saudi Arabia , where he conferred with Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Salman on Wednesday , Axios reported . <p> Don James Witkoff is not the only person who has been named after the president-elect . His eldest son Donald Trump Jr . was named after him as well . 
@@118903624 <p> To place an obituary , please include the information from the obituary checklist below in an email to obits@pioneerpress.com . There is no option to place them through our website . Feel free to contact our obituary desk at 651-228-5263 with any questions . <p> General Information : <p> Your full name , <p> Address ( City , State , Zip Code ) , <p> Phone number , <p> And an alternate phone number ( if any ) <p> Obituary Specification : <p> Name of Deceased , <p> Obituary Text , <p> A photo in a JPEG or PDF file is preferable , TIF and other files are accepted , we will contact you if there are any issues with the photo . <p> Ad Run dates <p> There is a discount for running more than one day , but this must be scheduled on the first run date to apply . <p> If a photo is used , it must be used for both days for the discount to apply , contact us for more information . <p> Policies : <p> Verification of Death : <p> In order to publish obituaries a name and phone number of funeral home/cremation society is required . We must contact the funeral home/cremation society handling the arrangements during their business hours to verify the death . If the body of the deceased has been donated to the University of Minnesota Anatomy Bequest Program , or a similar program , their phone number is required for verification . <p> Please allow enough time to contact them especially during their limited weekend hours . <p> A death certificate is also acceptable for this purpose but only one of these two options are necessary . <p> Guestbook and Outside Websites : <p> We are not allowed to reference other media sources with a guestbook or an obituary placed elsewhere when placing an obituary in print and online . We may place a website for a funeral home or a family email for contact instead ; contact us with any questions regarding this matter . <p> Obituary Process : <p> Once your submission is completed , we will fax or email a proof for review prior to publication in the newspaper . This proof includes price and days the notice is scheduled to appear . <p> Please review the proof carefully . We must be notified of errors or changes before the notice appears in the Pioneer Press based on each day 's deadlines . <p> After publication , we will not be responsible for errors that may occur after final proofing . <p> Online : <p> All obituaries appear on TwinCities.com with a permanent online guestbook presence . If you wish to have the online presence removed , you can contact us to remove the guestbook online . Changes to an online obituary can be handled through the obituary desk . Call us with further questions . <p> Payment Procedure : <p> Pre-payment is required for all obituary notices prior to publication by the deadline specified below in our deadline schedule . Please call 651-228-5263 with your payment information after you have received the proof and approved its contents . <p> I have a simple rule of thumb when assessing the potential instability of Middle Eastern countries . They come in just two varieties : countries that implode and countries that explode . That is , countries where when central control collapses , the ruined pillars fall inside its borders , and countries where when central control collapses , the blast radius of all the political shrapnel extends far and wide . <p> There is no country in the Middle East that explodes more than Syria . Whatever happens in Syria will not stay in Syria . <p> That is because Syria is both a keystone and a microcosm of the whole Middle East . As a keystone , once it crumbles , the effects radiate out in all directions . <p> As a microcosm -- Syria has Sunnis , Shiites , Alawites , Kurds , Christians and Druse -- whenever central control is loosened , it is a source of insecurity for every sect , so they often reach outside for help . It is also a source of opportunity for every regional power , so they often reach inside to tilt Syria their way . Historically , it took an iron-fisted leader in Damascus to keep Syria under control on the inside and deter regional powers who wanted to control it from the outside . <h> Memo to Marco Rubio ... <p> But because of Syria 's centrality , positive change there could also radiate out in all directions . And that brings me to the purpose of this column . Memo to secretary of state designate Marco Rubio : You may not realize it yet , but if confirmed , your first big challenge as President Donald Trump 's top diplomat may be to persuade him to abandon all of the **45;561;TOOLONG ... rhetoric that Trump is known for , so you can help with -- dare I say it -- nation-building in Syria . <p> Because the toppling of President Bashar Assad by Syrian rebels is one of the biggest , potentially most positive , game-changing events in the Middle East in the last 45 years . The thing about opportunities in foreign policy , though , is they can come totally out of the blue -- and the great presidents are the ones who seize them , even if it means eating a little crow . <p> In fairness to Trump , when the opportunity for the Abraham Accords manifested itself in 2020 , also out of the blue , he seized it and helped to forge normalization between Israel and four Arab states -- to the benefit of the region and to the United States . <p> This is a similar moment . <p> The odds of success are low , the payoff could be enormous and the risks to America not all that high , but it will require a lot more intensive U.S. leadership than the Abraham Accords . <h> Here 's why <p> To understand why , I need to take you back to 2003 . <p> The U.S. invasion of Iraq under President George W. Bush always had two objectives . One was removing weapons of mass destruction , which turned out to be fraudulent . The other , which I supported , was aspirational but ultimately impossible : trying to replace Saddam Hussein with a multisectarian , pluralistic democracy in a great Arab capital -- Baghdad -- in the hope that this could create an example in the heart of the Arab world that could radiate out and help cure the pathologies that produced the Sept. 11 attacks . <p> I say " impossible " because , as we learned , you ca n't deliver democracy from the top down and from the outside in . It has to grow organically from the bottom up . <p> In Iraq , it was primarily U.S. forces who pulled down Saddam 's statue in Baghdad , not Iraqis , even if many of them enjoyed watching it crumble . In the end , Iraqis did produce a constitutional power-sharing democracy on their own , but it teeters on the edge of failed statehood and is deeply penetrated by Iranian agents and influence , as well as homegrown corruption . While Iraq has actually held six pretty fair elections since the U.S.-led invasion that toppled Saddam in 2003 , the multiparty parliament it produced is dominated by parties defined by sect or ethnicity , not a true spirit of Iraqi citizenship strong and broad enough to resist Iran . <p> Iraq has also struggled since 2003 because the tyrants running neighboring Syria and Iran -- Bashar Assad and Ayatollah Ali Khamenei -- did everything they could to make sure no decent democratic example would emerge in Baghdad that might inspire their own people to follow suit . Eventually , though , the Arab Spring that began in Tunisia and Egypt spread to Syria in 2011 -- organically , without a U.S. invasion -- but Assad was ready to kill hundreds of thousands of his own people and drive millions abroad to hold onto power -- until last week . <h> Another chance ? <p> The big question in my mind now is : Will the Middle East get another chance to have a consensual , pluralistic government emerge in its midst in another great Arab capital , Damascus -- only this time driven by its own people , not by any foreign power ? If Syrians over the coming years can find their way from the bottom up to live together in a pluralistic society as citizens , not just sects , held together by voluntary consent , not just the iron fist of a dictator , that would radiate out to Iraq , Lebanon , Iran , Libya , Sudan -- everywhere . <p> That would be the most positive event in the Middle East since Anwar Sadat got on a plane and went to Israel to make peace in 1977 -- and one of the most important in modern Arab politics . <p> I do n't need any lectures on how unlikely this is . I lived through the Lebanese civil war for over four years and reported extensively from Iraq . A happy ending in Syria is a low-probability outcome , but it offers an enormous payoff for the Syrian people and the whole region . And unlike the U.S. invasion of Iraq , it would cost the United States and its allies little money and few troops to try to help . <p> But it will not happen without American help and leadership and some consistent and tough-minded diplomacy , ready to risk failure and ready to understand that benign neglect could be hugely costly to our allies . Competition within Syria -- and over Syria by outsiders -- will spill across the whole region . It will be a forever war that will open the way for the reemergence of the Islamic State group and could easily destabilize the frail democracy in Iraq and the monarchy in Jordan , and suck Israel into Syria -- meaning 7 million Jews would be controlling all of the Gaza Strip and parts of both Lebanon and Syria , as well as Israel and the West Bank . Israel will be completely overstretched and need billions in extra U.S. aid . <h> Encouragement and incentives <p> I do n't know what is in the head or the heart of Syrian rebel leader Abu Mohammed al-Golani . I read that he has spent years trying to remake his image , renouncing his longtime ties to al-Qaida and presenting himself as a leader promoting pluralism and tolerance . I just know that we should be doing all we can from the outside to encourage , pressure and incentivize al-Golani to live up to the image <p> I was impressed by how Secretary of State Antony Blinken jumped right in with this Dec. 10 statement : <p> " The United States reaffirms its full support for a Syrian-led and Syrian-owned political transition . This transition process should lead to credible , inclusive and nonsectarian governance . ... The transition process and new government must also uphold clear commitments to fully respect the rights of minorities , facilitate the flow of humanitarian assistance to all in need , prevent Syria from being used as a base for terrorism or posing a threat to its neighbors . " <h> Weak states will vex America <p> I believe the Syrian problem will be a microcosm of the key challenge the Trump foreign policy team will face globally -- how to manage weakness , not strength . How to manage states falling apart and threatening the world by their collapse , not states rising up and threatening the world with their strength . Other than China , it is weak states , not strong states , that will vex America and its allies , and therefore the central challenge for the Trump team will be how to do nation-building or nation-repairing at a cost that the American people will tolerate . <p> As Haaretz economic writer David Rosenberg pointed out regarding just Syria : " The reconstruction bill will easily be seven times the size of Syria 's entire economy , and the work itself will require the kind of technical expertise that only a few countries can provide . ... The problem is that Syria is broke , and Trump is unlikely to provide it with significant aid money . It 's also under Western sanctions that Trump would have to lift . ... For Syria to recover and rebuild , the stars will have to align perfectly in a constellation of good leadership , national unity and international goodwill . " <p> Trump could choose to just walk away from Syria , as he tried to do once before , when he was president , and watch the Middle East completely unravel and just say what Vice President-elect JD Vance once said about Ukraine : " I do n't really care what happens . " <p> Or Trump could acknowledge that the only way we can help tilt Syria in a positive direction at a tolerable price is if we build a coalition with our NATO allies , Japan , Korea and Australia -- and maybe even China and India -- that seeks to give the Syrian uprising the best chance possible to succeed . <p> President Joe Biden walked away from Afghanistan shortly after he took office . It was ugly for him and sad for the Afghans . But Syria is not Afghanistan . 
@@118905432 <h> The California Department of Motor Vehicles has apologized for an " unacceptable and disturbing " personalized truck license plate that the agency said displayed hate speech related to the Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack on Israel <p> LOS ANGELES ( AP ) -- The California Department of Motor Vehicles has apologized for an " unacceptable and disturbing " personalized truck license plate that the agency said displayed hate speech related to the Oct. 7 attack on Israel . But a relative of the vehicle 's owner said the whole controversy was an unfortunate misunderstanding . <p> A photo posted on X by the watchdog group StopAntisemitism showed a license plate on a Tesla Cybertruck near Los Angeles that read " LOLOCT7 . " LOL is an abbreviation for " laugh out loud . " <p> The group said the plate seemed to reference Oct. 7 , 2023 , when Hamas militants attacked Israel , killing hundreds of people and prompting an Israeli retaliation against Palestinians in Gaza . <p> But the son of the truck 's owner told ABC 7 in Los Angeles that the personalized plate was not a reference to the Oct. 7 attack at all . He said it referred to the owner , who is a Filipino grandfather . " LOLO " means grandfather in Tagalog , " CT " refers to the Cybertruck , while 7 represents the owner 's seven children , according to the news station . <p> The DMV issued a statement Thursday , saying the department is " taking swift action to recall these shocking plates , and we will immediately strengthen our internal review process to ensure such an egregious oversight never happens again . " <p> A spokesperson for the DMV told the Los Angeles Times the license plate should not have passed the review process and , after it was flagged on social media , many people who alerted the department found it offensive . <p> " The use of hateful language is not only a clear violation of our policies but also a violation of our core values to proudly serve the public and ensure safe and welcoming roadways , " the DMV statement said . <p> The DMV said the license plate owner will be notified about the recall of their license plate because of the language . The owner of the vehicle has the right to appeal the department 's decision . <p> Copyright 2024 The Associated Press . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed without permission . <h> Watch this discussion.Stop watching this discussion . <h> ( 0 ) comments <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article . 
@@118907627 <p> Click here to browse full transcripts of " Face the Nation with Margaret Brennan . " <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : I 'm Margaret Brennan in Washington . <p> And this week on Face the Nation : President-elect Trump promises big change for America 's role in the world . But with much of the world on fire , will his policies extinguish the flames or fuel them ? <p> Mr. Trump 's traveling transition team did n't have far to go for the annual Army-Navy Game . This year , it was just outside Washington . The game gave his national security picks the opportunity to review and cheer on some of our future troops . <p> And some of Trump 's intended nominees will face a tough path to victory themselves . But one man who 's definitely headed for a job in the White House , incoming National Security Adviser Mike Waltz , will join us to preview the new administration 's priorities amid instability throughout the Middle East , tensions in Asia and an unrelenting war in Ukraine . <p> Ukraine 's ambassador to the U.S. , Oksana Markarova , will also be here . We will ask how new leadership in Washington will change her own country 's calculus , as Russia 's invasion grinds on . <p> Then : President Biden breaks a record by commuting the sentences of 1,500 Americans . We will ask Democratic Senator Amy Klobuchar about that and the future of law enforcement under Trump . <p> Plus : Donald Trump promises Wall Street big changes are ahead . <p> ( Begin VT ) <p> DONALD TRUMP ( Former President of the United States ( R ) and Current U.S. President-Elect ) : We 're going to do things , I think , that have n't been really done before . We 're going to be cutting taxes still further . <p> ( End VT ) <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : We will dive into the details with IBM vice chairman Gary Cohn , who served as a top economic aide to Trump during his first term . <p> And , finally , a conversation with the head of the United Nations ' World Food Program , Cindy McCain , about the link between global hunger and global instability . <p> It 's all just ahead on Face the Nation . <p> Good morning , and welcome to Face the Nation . <p> Congress and the Biden administration are rushing to get business wrapped up during this last workweek of the year for lawmakers before the former and president-elect takes the oath of office in January . <p> We begin with Congressman Mike Waltz of Florida , who is the incoming White House national security adviser . <p> Good morning to you . <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE WALTZ ( R-Florida ) : Morning , Margaret . <p> Tough day for Army , but great day for America . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Indeed . Well , as a Green Beret , I know you had a reason to be cheering there for Army , sir . <p> I want to ask you a number of topics , but , before I go overseas , you sit on the House Intelligence Committee . You also , because of your new role , are in contact with President Biden 's national security adviser , Jake Sullivan . <p> Do you think the public should be concerned about these reported drones all over the East Coast ? And have you the need for more authority to deal with them ? <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE WALTZ : Well , I think what the drone issue points out are kind of gaps in our agencies , gaps in our authorities between the Department of Homeland Security , local law enforcement , the Defense Department . <p> And I think Americans are finding it hard to believe we ca n't figure out where these are coming from . And I can tell you , from the Defense Department standpoint , you know , they 're focused on bombers and cruise missiles , and -- and it 's -- it 's pointing to gaps in our capabilities and in our ability to clamp down on what 's going on here . <p> And we need to get to the bottom of it , and I think the Biden administration is -- is working to do that . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : But , at this point , given the intelligence you 've seen , is there any reason for the public to be worried ? <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE WALTZ : Well , look , when you have sensitive sites like Picatinny Arsenal , you have , of course , President Trump 's residence at Bedminster , and you have other no-fly areas , those need to be enforced . <p> We need to know who 's behind it . But , right now , I think law enforcement seems to be -- the Department of Homeland Security and the Defense Department are kind of all doing this and pointing at each other . So , when we come in , you know , how do we enforce these low-level , long-loitering , could-be-dangerous drones ? <p> And one thing for people to appreciate , you know , they 're evolving so rapidly , it 's not necessarily somebody that 's just on the other end flying it . They could be following prepositioned GPS coordinates . They could be coming from offshore . <p> And we need to take a hard look at our homeland defenses . President Trump has talked about an Iron Dome for America . That needs to include drones as well , not just adversarial actions like hypersonic missiles . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Yes . <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE WALTZ : We need to have an all-of-the-above protection of U.S. airspace . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Understood . <p> Let -- let me ask you about China . The president-elect said a few things in the past week about China , and he said his team has been talking and discussing , as he put it , with China 's President Xi Jinping . <p> CBS was the first to report that an invitation was extended to the inauguration , though we do not expect Xi to come . Was that the extent of the back-and-forth ? Do the two leaders intend to speak by phone ? <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE WALTZ : Well , Margaret , it 's been amazing . <p> I mean , the entire world is reaching out to the president . In fact , it 's been a little overwhelming , the outreach , not only to speak with him , to congratulate him , but to even come to the inauguration themselves . So , the outreach has been tremendous . <p> President Trump is taking all calls . As you know , he believes in having a relationship with allies and adversaries at that kind of head-of-state level . And those conversations -- those conversations are ongoing , but they are really nothing beyond congratulatory and niceties . <p> We are in communication with the current administration . We do n't agree on all things , but , as I have said before , none of our adversaries should think this is a moment to take advantage of this transition . We do n't agree with all things , but we are in full coordination with the current administration . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Well , China , you said there should be consequences because of their massive and pervasive hack of eight U.S. telecom companies , which has breached the metadata of potentially millions of Americans . <p> Senator Marco Rubio said it was egregious , dangerous , and a vulnerability that no one anticipated . <p> You 're going to be working together . What do you plan for the consequences to be ? <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE WALTZ : Yes . <p> I think Senator Rubio , and hopefully future Secretary of State Rubio , is absolutely right . We are -- we have been over the years trying to play better and better defense when it comes to cyber . <p> We need to start going on offense and start imposing , I think , higher costs and consequences to private actors and nation-state actors that continue to steal our data , that continue to spy on us , and that , even worse , with the Volt Typhoon penetration , that are literally putting cyber time bombs on our infrastructure , our water systems , our grids , even our ports . <p> That is wholly unacceptable , and I think we need to take a much stronger stance . Senator Rubio is right . President Trump has indicated that as well . We need to start changing behaviors on the other side , rather than just constantly having this kind of escalation of their offense and our defense . <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE WALTZ : And then , finally , we 've got a tremendous private sector with a lot of capability . That relationship between public and private , with our tech industry , they could be doing a lot of good and helping ... <p> He then announced that he had spoken to Vladimir Putin . Orban seems to be floating a Christmas cease-fire and a prisoner swap . Is he carrying with him some kind of message from Donald Trump ? <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE WALTZ : Well , Orban has regular engagement with the Russians , and he clearly has a good relationship with President Trump . <p> And I would hope the entire world would want to see some type of cessation to the slaughter that is happening in Eastern Ukraine . I mean , Margaret , people need to understand ... <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Did Mr. Trump ask him to do that ? <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE WALTZ : ... this is World War I-style -- this is World War I-style warfare . It is a meat grinder of human beings . <p> President Trump 's been very concerned about the carnage that 's ongoing . And where is this all going ? <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Right . <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE WALTZ : We need to stop the fighting . And , you know , look , if that is some type of cease-fire as a first step , again , we 'll -- we 'll take a hard look at what that means . <p> But , until January 20 , we are also in coordination with this current administration . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : OK , so no message was sent through Orban to Putin by Trump ? Is that -- that 's what I understand you saying there ? <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE WALTZ : Oh , I 'm not going to -- yes , I 'm not going to get into specifics of back-and-forths . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : OK . <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE WALTZ : But one is talking . Of course , we 're going to continue to talk . And President Trump 's made it clear he wants this war to stop . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Does the Trump team plan to limit how Ukraine can use U.S. weapons or targeting assistance when you take office ? <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE WALTZ : Well , President Trump just said in the interview that , you know , a blank check -- in his interview with " TIME " magazine , I believe , you know , a blank check is n't -- you know , just is n't a strategy , this just kind of forever war that we seem to be backing into . <p> What does success look like in line with our interests ? How do we end the war ? Who 's at the table ? How do we drive , you know , all sides to the table ? And what 's the framework for -- for an agreement ? Those are things that we 're thinking through with his fantastic team that he 's assembling . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Was that discussed in that 45-minute meeting that Mr. Trump had with Mr. Zelenskyy in Paris last week ? And do you support putting NATO member states as peacekeepers in Ukraine ? <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE WALTZ : Well , you know , what 's been so interesting , Margaret , is , just since the election , everyone coming to us , our European allies , President Zelenskyy in that meeting , and others , have shifted to how to -- that framework I just talked about . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Yes . <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE WALTZ : How do we end this conflict ? How do we do it in a way that restores stability , stops the carnage , and hopefully makes this a permanent end , not just -- not just a pause ? <p> And in terms of the question you just asked , the NATO secretary-general came here to Mar-a-Lago . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Right . <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE WALTZ : He 's talking about the Europeans taking a bigger role in -- whether that 's on the ground or otherwise , after this conflict is over , and that 's exactly what President Trump has been asking for . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : I have to quickly ask you about the Middle East . <p> During the last Trump administration , Donald Trump pulled some U.S. troops out of Syria . Does he intend to keep the 900 U.S. troops there ? <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE WALTZ : Look , our number one interest is keeping a lid on ISIS . We can not have an explosion of ISIS back into a caliphate that threatens Iraq , threatens Jordan , threatens Turkey and Europe , inspires attacks in the United States , like we saw in 2014 . <p> President Trump cleaned it up then with his team . Thousands of ISIS fighters are in prison camps . We 're in consultation with the Israelis as well . They 're , importantly , taking down Assad 's chemical stockpiles , as well as other things we do n't want falling into the hands of anybody . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Mm-hmm . <p> REPRESENTATIVE MIKE WALTZ : And , you know , the other piece there that he asked for in the first term and that we need to see is , again , Europe , who was hit so badly by ISIS attacks , taking a greater role in keeping ISIS contained . <p> So those are all conversations that we 're having , again , in consultation with the current administration . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Well , Senator , I do want to ask you about these drones on the East Coast , because we looked at your record , and you actually cosponsored legislation a few years ago trying to expand authorities to deal with them . <p> Why do you need an act of Congress to deal with this ? And why did n't the Democrats move on it ? <p> SENATOR AMY KLOBUCHAR : Well , first of all , the administration has repeatedly assured people that they are safe . <p> However , one , we need a briefing for the members of the Senate to figure out what 's going on here . Two , we need more transparency . And , three , I appreciated some of the congressman 's words , because what he was talking about is , we need to have a -- new regulatory rules in place here . <p> Right now , you have to register a drone if it 's over a half-pound , and there are penalties if you do n't do that . Well , I think we have to make sure that regime is enforced with local and state authorities . And then we have got to figure out , do we really want all these drones ? <p> Because while these may be safe , who knows what happens in the future ? And they have to be within 400 feet . So , these things are going to be , what , flying over people 's family picnics and over their homes and over beaches ? Like , this is not going to be a good future if we see too many of these . <p> So , I think -- I was pleased that he said he wanted to move forward on some rules and finding a way to regulate these in a better way , because this just ca n't be no one knows why this huge drone is right over their house . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : So you might bring this up in the new Con -- Republican controlled-Senate ? <p> SENATOR AMY KLOBUCHAR : Yes . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Moving on , you sit on the Judiciary Committee . <p> So you 're going to have a key role in overseeing law enforcement under the Trump administration . And you will get to question his selectee to run the FBI , Kash Patel , who has published in his book a list of enemies , vowed retribution . <p> I want to play something for you that Republican Senator Murkowski said just a few days ago . <p> ( Begin VT ) <p> SENATOR LISA MURKOWSKI ( R-Alaska ) : The approach is going to be , everybody , toe the line . Everybody , line up , we got you here , and if you want to survive , you better be good . Do n't get on Santa 's naughty list here , because we will primary you . <p> ( End VT ) <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : That is a remarkable thing for a Republican senator to say on the record as clearly as she said . She said they are being threatened if they do n't get in line and vote for some of these nominees . <p> Are you getting the sense from your Republican colleagues on judiciary they will get in line and vote through Kash Patel ? <p> SENATOR AMY KLOBUCHAR : Sadly , there is some of that going on , but then you have other people , like Lisa Murkowski , who has always been a thoughtful , independent voice . <p> She believes her job is to do what our Constitution tells us , advice and consent , and also that we take an oath to support and defend the Constitution of the United States . So , we have to do our due diligence and make decisions . <p> I voted for a number of the past Trump nominees for many different jobs . I looked at them and decided if I thought they were qualified , and could they perform the mission of the agency and did they have integrity ? That 's what has to happen here . <p> And so , when you look at someone like Kash Patel , who would be replacing Christopher Wray , who I believe embodied -- he was a Trump appointee , went through Biden , and embodied the mission of the FBI , which is fidelity , bravery , integrity . <p> And so now you have someone who says he 's on a revenge mission , when we should be on a national security , safety mission here , when we look at cybersecurity attacks that you just talked to -- with the congressman about and various other things . <p> He says he wants to dismantle the FBI headquarters and turn it into a museum . To me , this is not the direction we need to go . So I appreciate Senator Murkowski 's words and also her demand and other Republicans . It 's going to be their decisions on these nominees . We may vote against them or for them . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Right . <p> SENATOR AMY KLOBUCHAR : But , in the end , it 's their decisions . <p> Her demand for FBI reports and making sure that these are not recess appointments and there must be open hearings . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Right , because they have enough votes , essentially , to move on these on their own . <p> I want to ask you about President Biden . This past week , he had this record number of commutations , 1,500 Americans , more than any president in any single day . Among them , though , there was a judge involved in a so-called cash-for-kids scheme that sent thousands of kids to jail ... <p> SENATOR AMY KLOBUCHAR : Did not like that one , no . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : ... for millions of dollars . <p> SENATOR AMY KLOBUCHAR : Mm-hmm . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : A man who committed tax fraud ... <p> SENATOR AMY KLOBUCHAR : Mm-hmm . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : ... at a cost of more than $1.6 billion , described as the most prolific , pernicious , utterly unrepentant tax cheat in U.S. history . A woman who was involved in a $26 million scheme to defraud Medicare . <p> Are you comfortable with some of these decisions ? <p> SENATOR AMY KLOBUCHAR : No . There 's also a man in Duluth that was running a major drug house , basically , and had all this money under his bathroom tiles , was also commuted . <p> So , the way I look at this is , I also did n't agree with the pardon of the president 's son . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Mm-hmm . <p> SENATOR AMY KLOBUCHAR : I also have not agreed with the number of pardons that President Trump gave . <p> So , I believe , and I have long advocated for this , that , while the pardon ability is part of our Constitution , we 're not going to change that , right ? <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Mm-hmm . <p> SENATOR AMY KLOBUCHAR : Go way back to President Lincoln , who made hard decisions himself about deserters from the Army , things like that . That 's been going on a long time . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Right . <p> SENATOR AMY KLOBUCHAR : But we should have some kind of an outside board that governors have . Governors have the ability to give mercy to people after years have gone by . <p> But a lot of them have boards that make recommendations and other things , instead of people just doing it in the middle of the night and people in the White House . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Right . <p> SENATOR AMY KLOBUCHAR : This makes no sense to me . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Well , this is why it was so surprising , because the White House described it as just based on a broad category , and not the specifics of the case . <p> SENATOR AMY KLOBUCHAR : Exactly . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Was that prudent ? <p> SENATOR AMY KLOBUCHAR : And so I have no doubt there were some righteous pardons in this group , OK , let 's say that . I believe that there were . <p> But there were a number that I think make no sense at all . So , instead of doing a whole category , why do n't , in a coming year , before the end of a president 's term , if that 's when they 're mostly going to do these ... <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Right . <p> SENATOR AMY KLOBUCHAR : ... that a board looks at these and looks at them individually , when people petition for them , based on the facts , instead of just in a large group ? <p> So , large groups have been done before , I believe , but I just -- I think that this whole process cries out for reform , because , otherwise , you undermine the justice system . <p> And , again , I emphasize ... <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Yes . <p> SENATOR AMY KLOBUCHAR : ... this also happened in a big way under President Trump . <p> And you undermine the work of these line FBI agents , these line prosecutors who have taken on these cases , followed the sentencing guidelines and made a decision . Might you want mercy 10 years later ? Yes , you might . But let 's at least look at these on a factual basis and a risk basis , instead of just in the middle of the night a month before a president leaves . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Yes . <p> Senator Klobuchar , thank you for being here today . <p> SENATOR AMY KLOBUCHAR : It was great to be on . Thank you , Margaret . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : We 'll be right back with a lot more Face the Nation . Stay with us . <p> ( ANNOUNCEMENTS ) <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : And we 're back now with the vice chairman of IBM , Gary Cohn , who also served as the White House economic adviser in President Trump 's first term . <p> Gary , welcome back . <p> It 's expected the Fed is going to cut rates again this week , even though we did see in the economic data released that inflation is still high . President Trump said , ca n't lower prices once they 're high . Seems to be admitting that it 's not within the president 's remit to control what you spend at the grocery store . <p> You 're right . So we had two bits of economic data this week . We had consumer prices and we 've had producer prices . Both came in on the high side of where economists were hoping . If you look at the consumer prices , we 're looking at about 2.7 percent on consumer prices . <p> Remember , the Fed 's target for inflation is about 2 percent . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Right . <p> GARY COHN : So we 're running almost a percent high . Producer prices came in even higher than we were expecting . So we 're not down to that target 2 percent , where the Fed would like to get to . <p> That said , the Fed meting next week . The Fed is highly -- it 's highly viewed that the Fed will cut interest rates by 25 basis points next week . That means , over the course of this year , they will have cut interest rates by 100 basis points . <p> Now , as you look forward into next year , people had projected they would cut a lot more . I think we are seeing the rate of cuts slow down , and slow down quite dramatically , as people are starting to evaluate the economic data that we have . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : So , what does that mean in terms of the economy President Trump will be inheriting ? <p> GARY COHN : So , the president 's inheriting a very good economy , a very stable economy . We have real , solid economic growth . We have real job growth . We have real wage growth . <p> And I think some of the wage growth that we 're seeing , we 've seen a lot of these union contracts be renegotiated in the second half of this year . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Mm-hmm . <p> GARY COHN : Those wages feed through the economy . They feed through as inflation . <p> So , the economy the president 's inheriting is quite strong . I think it will continue to stay quite strong . And , in fact , the American consumer today , as well as corporate America , is quite excited about what the Trump administration is talking about , and the business environment is very positive . <p> Corporate America is talking about a lot of expansion , a lot of capital expenditure for next year , about repatriating more jobs back to the United States , about building more factories in the United States , hiring more workers . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : You think that will actually happen ? <p> GARY COHN : I do think it 's going to happen . <p> So , net-net , we are talking about a very positive business and cycle going forward into 2025 . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Is the stock market really the best way to gauge it ? You saw Mr. Trump at the stock exchange this past week . <p> GARY COHN : Well , look , the stock market is one benchmark . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Yes . <p> GARY COHN : It 's a -- it 's an index . It 's a benchmark . <p> And , remember , the stock market is an index . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Yes . <p> GARY COHN : There 's a -- there 's a huge diversity of what 's going on in the stock market . There 's some of the tech stocks at the high end ... <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Right . <p> GARY COHN : ... that are performing very , very well . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Right . <p> GARY COHN : And there 's some of the more traditional stocks in the middle of the market that are not performing as well . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : We 've got to take a break and finish this conversation on the other side of it . <p> Stay with us , Gary . <p> We will be right back . <p> ( ANNOUNCEMENTS ) <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Welcome back to FACE THE NATION . <p> We 're continuing our conversation now with Gary Cohn . <p> Gary , before the break you were telling us the business world has high expectations for the Trump administration . One of the things that Donald Trump promised to do in his second term was lower the corporate tax rate . So , you helped put together the tax plan that 's - that 's expiring in 20 - or part of it , sorry , expiring in 2025 . He said at the New York Stock Exchange this week that he wants it to go down further from 21 percent . He really wanted to get it back down to 15 . And we will be able to do that . <p> GARY COHN : In 2017 we did not have the financial wherewithal to do it . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : OK . <p> GARY COHN : When you go through reconciliation , which is how they will do taxes this time , in 2025 , you are given instructions by the - by the Budget Committee . And the instructions are basically how much money you can spend or how much revenue you can take in . This time it will be how much money you can spend . <p> We did not have additional money to spend . So , the lowest we could get the corporate tax rate at that time was the 21 percent . That 's also the reason that the corporate tax part of the tax legislation 2017 expires the end of 2025 . To score that piece of legislation , which in the financial requirements we were given by the Senate and the House Finance Committees , we had to end the personal side at the end of 2025 . <p> So , we do know that taxes will be taken out by this Congress in this session . We know that they 're going to have to deal with the personal side of the equation because if not the personal side will revert back to the pre-2017 tax code . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Yes . <p> GARY COHN : That was a very arduous , ugly tax code with much higher rates , with a lot more loopholes , a lot more deductions . I do n't think anyone wants - on either side of the aisle wants to go back to the prior tax code . <p> You know when we open up tax code , even if we 're just talking about the personal side , the corporate side will come into play . And there 's always this interesting relationship between the personal side and the corporate side because the vast majority of companies in - in the United States are small businesses that file in - on - on a tax return that allows them to pay the personal rate . But there 's a difference between the personal rate and the corporate rate . And you want to make sure that those relationships do n't get too far out of - out of line with each other - <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Yes . <p> GARY COHN : So people are n't incentivized to change their corporate structure to become a subchapter s corporation versus a corporation . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : OK . <p> GARY COHN : So they can take advantage of the tax code . So , there 's - there 's always a lot of time spent there to make sure that the personal rate and the corporate rate makes sense in relationship to each other . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : I think you said in the past , though , you do n't think the corporate rate should go down further . <p> GARY COHN : Well , the business community as a whole . When we did tax reform in 2017 , and whether you look at the Chamber of Commerce , or you look at the business roundtable , you look at any of the business organizations , they were very supportive of a 21 percent tax rate . They , in fact , I think , would have been happy with anything at 23 percent or below , which put us in line with other OECD countries around the world . It made us competitive . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Other developed economies ? <p> GARY COHN : Other developed economies . Obviously , companies will be happier if the tax rate goes lower , but realistically we just need , in this country , to be competitive with the rest of the world . We do not want corporate taxes to be a disadvantage for U.S. domicile companies . <p> GARY COHN : Look , Scott is a - quite an accomplished individual . So , the guy - I know he will put a lot of effort into this . He will have a lot of help with other people . Kevin Hassett , who 's going into my old job at the NEC , will have an important seat at the table . Kevin understands a lot of these policies . <p> There will be a lot of opinions at the table when we get to tax writing . You know , the House and the Senate will have their opinions . Remember , there are members of the House that ran on one item and one item only . They ran on the idea that we should bring back the state and local tax deduction , the SALT deduction . There were also members that ran on being deficit hawks . There were Republicans that ran on thinking that we have built up too much deficit and we need to get our budget under control . We 're going to have to find a way - <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : They 're not going to like any of these premises . <p> GARY COHN : I agree with that . But we 're going to have to find a way to balance all of these needs and get to a tax plan that makes sense but allows us to continue to drive our economy - <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Yes . <p> GARY COHN : Continue to drive the economic growth and continue to drive wages and jobs . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Well , you heard the House speaker say some of this may be done through reconciliation , which implies that the Senate is n't going to seek a majority vote here . They 're - they 're just going to try to put this through with 51 votes , do it in kind of an arcane way . <p> When is this going to happen ? And should it happen before they fix the border ? <p> GARY COHN : Well , it sounds like , from what I 'm hearing , and , look , I do n't know , this could change any way . There 's other people smarter than I deciding on the strategy of this . It sounds like there may be two reconciliation bills . It sounds like the first reconciliation bill , which , you 're right , is a bill that allows the Senate to do something in a simple majority . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Yes . <p> GARY COHN : Budget related only . You can only reconcile a budget . Budget related with a simple majority . It sounds like there may be a first reconciliation bill - <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Yes . <p> GARY COHN : Which is border related . Where they may take back much of the unspent Inflation Reduction Act money and some of the other money that was appropriated under the Biden administration and use that to close the border . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : And then they 'll get to taxes . Got it . <p> GARY COHN : And then use a second reconciliation bill , because there are two budgets out there . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Right . <p> GARY COHN : As there were in the Biden administration . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Yes . <p> GARY COHN : Use that to - to go after taxes and fixing taxes , especially the personal side of taxes that ends in 2025 . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Right . That 's a big fight to have in the year ahead . <p> Gary , we 'll be talking to you again then . <p> We 've got to take a break . <p> GARY COHN : Thank you . <p> ( ANNOUNCEMENTS ) <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : We 're joined now by the Ukrainian ambassador to the United States , Oksana Markarova . <p> Good to have you back with us . <p> OKSANA MARKAROVA ( Ukrainian Ambassador to the United States ) : Thank you for having me and blessed Sunday to all . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : No western power , as you know , is sending troops to Ukraine to help Ukrainian forces , but Russia 's got North Korean troops now who are fighting on their side . Yesterday , President Zelenskyy said Russia has been using a significant number of North Koreans . How are they fighting ? <p> OKSANA MARKAROVA : Yes . So , and - we are not asking for other troops . Ukrainians are still capable of defending our own country . We 're asking for the military support . <p> Yesterday we have seen those tens of thousands of troops that we were warning the world about . We have seen hundreds of them on the battlefield already . And we are successfully fighting with them as we are fighting with the Russians . I mean , look , we - we see them now in ( INAUDIBLE ) only , and our great defenders were not only able to kill a lot of them , but also keep the positions . <p> So , it 's difficult , of course , to see the reinforcement from this access of evil , but it will not change anything for us . We will continue defending the very long line , whether it 's in southern eastern Ukraine or whether it 's our defensive operation in Kusk ( ph ) . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : And in the meantime , the North Korean troops are getting trained in modern warfare and they 're learning in Ukraine - I mean right there . <p> OKSANA MARKAROVA : Absolutely . And we also have to worry about what is it that Russia is promising or even delivering to North Korea in exchange for this . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Right . Yes . <p> OKSANA MARKAROVA : And Korean missiles . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : But I also raise the manpower issue because it 's a problem for Ukraine as well . Military recruitment is tough right now in Ukraine . There has been pressure on your government by the United States to lower the draft age so that you can boost the number of fighters . This is arguably a bigger issue than the weaponry itself . Is it affecting the ability of Ukraine to keep up the fight ? <p> OKSANA MARKAROVA : I would n't agree that it 's a bigger issue than the equipment itself . We still have - first of all , we have a number of young people fighting for Ukraine . And they are volunteering . And women are volunteering . Ukraine is one of the countries that lifted all restrictions for women , for example , and we have 60,000 of women in the armed forces . <p> With the recruitment , the last changes to the law of mobilization , already allowed us to create new brigades , which we are training now . And the problem is to have enough equipment to train them on so that we can actually not send to the battlefield like Russians do , right , unprepared , whether it 's North Koreans who are unprepared , or Russians , but to send soldiers who can do and deliver on a mission . And it 's very important for us because every person matters for Ukrainians . <p> Of course there are challenges . And we have the plan and we know how to do it because , again , this is our home we are defending . So , when it 's necessary , all of us are going to be defending our country . But weapons and having more weapons , especially long range , especially something to counter this 3,000 glide bombs every month that Russians are sending against us , those missiles , both Russian and North Korean missiles . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Yes . <p> OKSANA MARKAROVA : I mean it 's still a question of artillery and weapons and air defense most importantly . And the more we can have , the faster we can - the more efficiently we can defend . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Well , I - the Biden administration has been releasing more weapons just in the last week alone , but Donald Trump gave an interview to " Time Magazine " and he said the United States is escalating by allowing for weapons - missiles to be shot into Russian territory . He specifically focused in on that . He does not like that Ukraine is doing it . What does that mean for you on day one of the Trump administration ? <p> OKSANA MARKAROVA : Well , let me say - start by saying thank you to all American people , really , for standing with us all this time . Let me thank President Biden and his administration for all the support . Let me thank President Trump . He is the one who made a historic decision to provide us with Javelins , actually to provide us with lethal aid in the first place . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Back in 2017 . <p> OKSANA MARKAROVA : Yes . So , right now we have to do everything in order to stop Russia , and we know it 's - it could be stopped . It was recently stopped in Syria . We liberated more than 50 percent that they have taken . We actually kicked them out from the Black Sea just with our own naval drone capabilities . They could - they - they - we can stop them . The more equipment we have , especially including the longer-range equipment , in order to be able to degrade their attack capabilities faster , the faster they will either come to the table because , again , Ukraine wants peace . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Yes . <p> OKSANA MARKAROVA : Nobody wants peace more than us . Ukraine was never a problem . We never initiated this conflict . And we negotiated at the first sight , remember in 2022 when Russians started negotiations . They , of course , did not negotiated peace . They negotiated the pause . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Right . <p> OKSANA MARKAROVA : As we just heard Congressman Waltz , who absolutely rightfully said , it has to be peace , not a pause . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : He was careful . He did n't give a lot of specifics as to what the Trump policy will be . But we do know that Viktor Orbon was at Mar- a-Lago this past week and he talks to Vladimir Putin and he 's talking about a Christmas pause . Do you see a chance for a Christmas ceasefire and prisoner exchange ? <p> OKSANA MARKAROVA : This is very difficult winter . After Russia destroyed our - a lot of our energy infrastructure and after , you know , we are going through this difficult fight , both on the front line but also civilians suffering from the deadly missile attacks . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Just this past week . <p> OKSANA MARKAROVA : Yes . At the same time , you know , every time Russia is talking about some ceasefire , they are lying . Russians are lying . <p> And we see they were not able to defend their buddy - terrorist buddy Assad and he fled to Russia . And we see horrible atrocities in Saydnaya prison , like we see in Ukraine everywhere . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Yes . <p> OKSANA MARKAROVA : It reminded me , isolation prison in Denesk , which still is operational . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Right . <p> OKSANA MARKAROVA : So , look , you know , if Russia wants seriously to stop it , they can stop it at any time . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Yes . OK . <p> Ambassador , I have to leave it there . Thank you so much for joining us . <p> OKSANA MARKAROVA : Thank you . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : We 'll be back in a moment . <p> ( ANNOUNCEMENTS ) <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : Scenes of jubilation in Damascus as thousands of Syrians mark the first Friday of prayers since the fall of the Assad regime one week ago . Our Elizabeth Palmer has more . <p> ( BEGIN VT ) <p> ELIZABETH PALMER ( voice over ) : I have never seen Damascus so filled with joy . Bashar al Assad , the dictator , had fled to Moscow . And just like that , the fear of saying something that might get you arrested was gone . The Islamist fighters who had seized power a week ago were partying , too . In the main suuk ( ph ) , shoppers walked on Assad 's face . While at Saydnaya Prison , where his critics were tortured and killed , crowds poured in to what Syrians used to call the slaughterhouse . <p> ELIZABETH PALMER : It 's some kind of maybe underground holding cells . <p> ELIZABETH PALMER ( voice over ) : This is where political prisoners were disappeared . <p> ELIZABETH PALMER : Horrible . Dark . Damp . Smelly . Cold . <p> ELIZABETH PALMER ( voice over ) : All week families combed the cells for clues that might tell them what happened to their husbands , their fathers , their sons . <p> In a house near Damascus we met an American , Travis Timmerman , who 'd entered Syria illegally and being locked up in an Assad jail since May . <p> ELIZABETH PALMER : You got more than you bargained for , did n't you ? <p> TRAVIS TIMMERMAN : Well , I mean - <p> ELIZABETH PALMER : ( INAUDIBLE ) ? <p> TRAVIS TIMMERMAN : Yes . <p> ELIZABETH PALMER ( voice over ) : He is a lucky man . <p> As soon as the regime fell , local people set him and the rest of prisoners free . <p> At the ancient Omayad mosque , the fighters leader , Abu Mohammad al-Jolani was welcomed a conquering hero . He 's changed his look from the old days when he was affiliated with al Qaeda . And a master of modern messaging , he posted on X , too , inviting all Syrians to join in rebuilding the country . <p> His inner circle has promised elections in March . But not everyone buys it . Rumors are spreading like wildfire that no matter what they say , these men mean to rule like al Qaeda 2.0 . <p> ELIZABETH PALMER : Syrians are afraid , especially the Christian and Alawite minorities , that when the dust settles they 'll find that a new tyranny has simply replaced the old . <p> ( END VT ) <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : That 's Elizabeth Palmer in Damascus . <p> We spoke with the executive director of the U.N . ' s World Food Programme , Cindy McCain , last week and began by asking about the situation in Syria and how her organization is getting food to those who need it most . <p> ( BEGIN VT ) <p> CINDY MCCAIN ( Executive Director , U.N . World Food Programme ) : Well , our deliveries so far have been very - very smooth . But we need more delivery options open , which is what this was eluding to . <p> More importantly , we have been able to get 70,000 people fed this - this month so far , but we need more . And - and , more importantly , we need the funds to do it . That 's where we 're lacking . <p> You know , WFP never left Syria . We 've always been in there . But now we need more routes , more ability to get in and to get not just more trucks but more people in so that we can help in the best way we can . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : The U.S. still has some sanctions on Syria , but they do let in U.N . humanitarian aid . There was a call in Congress , a bipartisan one this week , for the United States to lift some sanctions . Are you experiencing U.S. sanctions getting in your way at this point ? <p> CINDY MCCAIN : Not really . We 've - we 've been able to , as - as you said , we 've been able to move our goods through our food items , et cetera , through and get it to where it needs to go in a safe and quick manner as well . But - but I - I do n't - I will never under state - under - under estimate the process with things that could - it could infringe us later on . So , I 'm hoping that things stay calm , that we can move our goods , again , in a safe and secure manner and do it at full scale . If we ca n't work at scale , we ca n't feed . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : And you said you 're short on funds . How much do you need ? <p> CINDY MCCAIN : Oh , worldwide , I could use 17 billion right now if you want to know the truth . There 's so much - there 's so many - many countries that have absolutely no access to any funding , no one 's paying any - any attention to it . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : So , why did you say funding is down ? People are just not paying attention ? <p> CINDY MCCAIN : Yes , countries are - are rerouting their funding in different ways . They 're choosing to fund things in different manners or not to fund at all . And I 'm asking now . I 'm asking on your show worldwide to please consider once again giving to Syria because people in Syria will starve to death without it . And - and we 've seen the evidence of great hunger there . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : You know , you and I have spoken in the past on this program about the U.S. contributing so generously to the U.N. , the largest funder , arguably the most important partner to the United Nations . <p> CINDY MCCAIN : Yes . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : And you had encouraged Beijing to really kind of step up their game . And you had said there was somewhat of a lack of willingness to be a part of working together as a team worldwide . <p> Have you seen any change to that ? <p> CINDY MCCAIN : Not much . I encourage all countries to get involved , including China . We need help from everybody . <p> The world is on fire right now , and hunger - hunger is at the forefront of all of this . And most importantly , you know , when people are hungry , this becomes a national security issue . And so it affects not only the countries that it 's affecting , but it affects us worldwide . And it does affect national security . So , it 's important that every country worldwide get involved and be involved in this . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : So , I want to ask you about Sudan . I know you were recently there . It 's in the midst of a brutal civil war . The U.S. has accused both sides of ethnic cleansing . Can you keep trucks going into Sudan to feed people there ? <p> CINDY MCCAIN : Oh , it 's such a complicated situation . We - right now we have 30 some convoys on the road going into Sudan to hit the various places that we need to get to , but we need more . Certainly Darfur has been a big issue , but we have other parts of the country that are just as needy and where - where famine does exist . As you know , it 's been declared there . And we need - we need also to be able to come through Khartoum and make sure that we can - can access from that direction as well . <p> It 's been a slow process , but we have been able to get in . But we need more . Again , food security is national security . Do n't ever forget that . Because if people are insecure from a food - from a food reality , they 're not going to behave well . And things - they start to migrate . Wars begin that way . Conflict is a part of all of this . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : I 'd be remiss to not ask you about what 's going on in Gaza . Jake Sullivan , President Biden 's national security adviser , said this week the U.S. has stood up to Prime Minister Netanyahu to say let 's make sure that Israel is not responsible for the third famine of the 21st century . Are we at famine in Gaza ? <p> CINDY MCCAIN : We 're very close to it . We 've seen the effects of it . We 've seen what 's - what 's going on . <p> Listen , this - we 're in the month of November . WFP has been able to get two trucks in . That 's all . Two trucks in the month of November . And , you know , and , of course , now we 're into December . This whole - this while issue of not being able to get in is - is unseemly . We need unfettered access . We need a cease-fire . And we need it now . We ca n't - there 's - we can no longer sit by and just allow these people to starve to death . We need help and we need to make sure that we put political pressure on those that need to have political pressure put on them . <p> MARGARET BRENNAN : We 've seen images of - of crowds just crushing people amassing at bakeries in Gaza . Ninety percent of the population can not return to their homes . They 're displaced . Only four bakeries are operational for nearly 2 million people . This is manmade . <p> CINDY MCCAIN : It is manmade . You 're absolutely right , it is manmade . And - and , more importantly , the world needs to take a hard look at this and realize that not just -- not just do they need food , but we need access . And that targeting of humanitarian aid workers is unconscionable . We need to get in and do our job . And - and more importantly , in all of this , make sure that we can feed . People - children especially are starving to death . I mean the height of malnutrition , the height of hunger within - within that region is - is unbelievably horrible . And so we 've seen be it firsthand . And I - I , as the leader of the largest humanitarian aid agency in the world , are - I 'm calling for a ceasefire . And I want my aid - my fellow partners within this arena to call for the same thing . 
@@118911423 <h> Jewish a cappella group celebrates Hanukkah with a ' Wicked ' message of hope <h> Six13 's Wicked-themed Hanukkah song takes on a deeper meaning this year . <p> Wicked : A New Standard for the Fantasy World ( photo credit : SHUTTERSTOCK ) <p> Six13 , a six-man a cappella vocal group known for revamping popular songs with Jewish-themed lyrics , released a Wicked-themed Hanukkah medley that features a message of hope amid the Jewish people 's darkest days . <p> The group , based in New York , releases music videos every Hannukkah and Passover , and has featured themes such as Mamma Mia ! , Taylor Swift , and Star Wars . <p> Unlike other years , however , ' A Wicked Chanukah ' opened with the lines " This year has changed our history , we will never be the same , " as footage from rallies supporting the release of the hostages and hostages being reunited with their families played . <p> The opening sequence , to the tune of Defying Gravity , melded the original story of Hannukkah with the current ongoing conflict , featuring photos of the Jewish people overcoming adversity through the ages and encouraging Jews globally to live proudly , ' Defining Destiny . ' <p> The video then segues into the history of Hanukkah to the tune of Popular , as the group shows Galinda and Elphaba how to spin a dreidel and light a menorah -- all in shades of pink and green , of course . <h> Holding space <p> The song then returns to Defining Destiny for the finale , featuring a photo of a Chanukiah in Nazi Germany , fading into IDF soldiers lighting one inside Gaza just last year , as the group delivers their final message , " No enemy there ever is or was is ever gon na bring us down . " <p> Many commenters thanked the group for their inclusion of the hostages in their video , saying this year 's song made them extremely emotional . <p> " There is so much power in our shared history and our Jewish identity , " one user wrote , " I wish more people would hold space for that . Am Yisrael Chai , Happy Hannukkah ! " 
@@118939033 <p> Yesha Council leaders on Sunday issued a letter to Israel 's Security Cabinet before its weekly meeting , calling on the government to take preventative military measures against terrorist activities . IDF <p> The letter implored the cabinet to change the situation on the ground , proposing three main steps be taken : <p> First , the council suggested temporarily relocating Palestinians residing in terror-prone areas , especially in the so-called " refugee camps , " so that Israeli forces could target terror infrastructure , similar to the Israeli military 's approach in Gaza . <p> " It 's time for a mindset transformation , from a defensive mode to a lethal and effective offensive mode in Judea and Samaria , " the letter concluded . <p> According to Israel 's Channel 14 broadcaster , cabinet members convened at the IDF 's Central Command in Jerusalem on Sunday to discuss the latest security developments in Judea and Samaria . <p> At the meeting , Israeli ministers received a summary of the military 's activities in Judea and Samaria , with National Missions Minister Orit Strook of the Religious Zionism Party urging the military to " drain the swamp " of terrorism rather than " eliminate one mosquito at a time , " according to the report . <p> Graffiti left on a wall of a Palestinian house in Hebrew reading ' War on Judea and Samaria " at the site where Israeli settlers attacked Al-Bireh near the West Bank city of Ramallah , 04 November 2024 . ALAA **29;705;TOOLONG <p> The letter also urged that anti-terror raids in Judea and Samaria be replaced with a major ground offensive similar , again similar to that being conducted by the Israel Defense Forces in Gaza . SOPA Images/LightRocket via Getty Images <p> The Palestinian Authority fears that terrorist organizations could attempt a coup inspired by the rebel takedown of Bashar Assad 's regime in Syria . <p> Its rare operation over the weekend , dubbed " Defense of the Homeland , " was launched by Ramallah following the Dec. 5 seizure by Hamas and Islamic Jihad of a P.A. vehicle in the Jenin camp , a hotbed of Iranian-backed terrorism , Israel 's Channel 12 News reported on Sunday . <p> According to Arab media reports , two Palestinian terrorists have so far been killed by the P.A. , including Yazid Jaysa , a leader in the Islamic Jihad-led Jenin Brigades who was reportedly also wanted by Israel . <p> In addition , at least 14 Palestinians were wounded in the clashes , and an unknown number of suspects arrested , according to local reports . <h> Video <p> Yesha Council leaders on Sunday issued a letter to Israel 's Security Cabinet before its weekly meeting , calling on the government to take preventative military measures against terrorist activities . IDF <p> Graffiti left on a wall of a Palestinian house in Hebrew reading ' War on Judea and Samaria " at the site where Israeli settlers attacked Al-Bireh near the West Bank city of Ramallah , 04 November 2024 . ALAA **29;736;TOOLONG <p> The letter also urged that anti-terror raids in Judea and Samaria be replaced with a major ground offensive similar , again similar to that being conducted by the Israel Defense Forces in Gaza . SOPA Images/LightRocket via Getty Images 
@@118941432 <p> Top officials from the U.S. , Qatar and Egypt have resumed their mediation efforts in recent weeks and reported greater willingness by the warring sides to wrap up a deal . In a key concession , Hamas officials say they are prepared to show more " flexibility " on the timing of an Israeli troop withdrawal from Gaza , and Israel 's defense minister , Israel Katz , said Monday that a deal is closer than ever . <p> Officials on all sides have cautioned that key details must still be worked out . But there is a general sense of optimism that has been lacking for many months . <p> The changing sentiment appears to be the result of several factors . Israel has inflicted heavy damage on Hamas over the course of the war . The group is more isolated after Hezbollah 's ceasefire with Israel , and Iran , a key backer of both militant groups , has suffered a number of setbacks , highlighted by the downfall of its close ally , Syria 's Bashar Assad . <p> Here is a closer look at the emerging deal , according to the officials , who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were discussing closed negotiations . <p> Preliminary ceasefire <p> The first phase would last from six to eight weeks . During that time , Hamas would release some 30 hostages -- roughly half of those believed alive . They include three or four dual U.S.-Israeli citizens . <p> Israel would release hundreds of Palestinian prisoners , including as many as 100 who are serving long sentences for alleged involvement in bloody attacks . <p> This is expected to include a reopening of the territory 's Rafah crossing with Egypt , which has been closed since Israeli ground troops invaded the southern border town in May . The crossing is especially important because it is the primary exit point for Palestinians in Gaza who want to travel abroad , and the only one not controlled by Israel . <p> Mediators say they are considering a return to a 2005 agreement that allowed the internationally recognized Palestinian Authority to operate the crossing with European Union observers . That agreement collapsed when Hamas seized control of Gaza in 2007 and expelled the Palestinian Authority forces . <p> Israeli troop withdrawals <p> During the first phase , Israeli troops would withdraw from some Palestinian population centers , allowing many Palestinians to begin returning home . But Israeli troops would n't leave Gaza altogether at this stage . They would remain along the Philadelphi corridor -- a strategic strip of land along Gaza 's border with Egypt . <p> Ending the war <p> During the initial ceasefire , the sides would continue negotiations on a permanent agreement , to include an end to the war , full withdrawal of Israeli troops , and release of remaining hostages and bodies held by Hamas . <p> Talks would begin on final arrangements for Gaza , including who would govern the territory and plans for rebuilding the destruction . <p> Guidelines : Keep it civil and on topic ; no profanity , vulgarity , slurs or personal attacks . People who harass others or joke about tragedies will be blocked . If a comment violates these standards or our terms of service , click the " flag " link in the lower-right corner of the comment box . To find our more , read our FAQ. 
@@118945028 <p> Dua Lipa 's list of 2024 musical accomplishments is comically long . In this year alone she 's done -- deep breath -- the following : released her third studio album , Radical Optimism ; kicked off her biggest global tour yet ; played a coveted Glastonbury Festival headline slot , the first British woman to do so since 2016 ; filmed a TV special at London 's Royal Albert Hall ; performed onstage with Cher , Elton John and Chris Stapleton ; and made a playful cameo on Charli xcx 's remixed version of brat . <p> " It 's honestly been the best year of my life . I 've done things that I 've wanted to do for so long , " Lipa tells Billboard U.K. with a laugh on a video call . She 's in Kuala Lumpur , Malaysia , when we speak , where she 's playing two nights at the city 's Axiata Arena . The run of dates in Asia , which has included stops in Tokyo , Singapore , Seoul and Bangkok , is her first in the region in six years . The crowds have been so " loud and fun , " she says , and she 's been " blown away " by their enthusiasm . <p> " There came a point in the year where I was thinking , ' I 've got to sit down and write some new dreams and new plans and other things I wanted to do , ' " she says . " I feel like I ticked so many of my boxes this year . It 's amazing . " <h> Related <p> In May , the British Albanian artist released Radical Optimism ( Warner ) , which peaked at No. 1 on the United Kingdom 's Official Albums Chart upon release and had the biggest opening week by a British female artist since Adele 's 30 in 2021 . The record went to No. 1 throughout mainland Europe in Spain , France , The Netherlands and more , and hit No. 2 on the Billboard 200 , her highest debut on the U.S. charts to date . Lead single " Houdini , " meanwhile , enjoyed a 17-week reign on Billboard 's Hot Dance/Electronic Songs chart . <p> The 29-year-old is a fitting entry for Billboard U.K. in Billboard 's inaugural Global No. 1s series celebrating the biggest and most successful artists internationally over the past year . <p> Seven months after the album 's release , Lipa looks back fondly on recording it with the stellar house band that included Tame Impala 's Kevin Parker , hyperpop hero Danny L Harle , superproducer Andrew Wyatt and star songwriter Tobias Jesso Jr. , along with her accomplished previous collaborators Caroline Ailin and Ian Kirkpatrick . Lipa has said it was inspired by Parker 's Tame Impala work and , speaking to Rolling Stone in February , dubbed it a " psychedelic-pop-infused tribute to U.K. rave culture . " A noticeable shimmy away from her disco-infused single " Dance the Night , " which appeared in the 2023 blockbuster Barbie film , Radical Optimism showed flashes of the turn-of-the- ? millennium French touch scene ( " End of an Era " ) and Parker 's signature psych-pop ( " Training Season " ) . <p> Lipa sketched the blueprint for Radical Optimism following the success of her monster second album , 2020 's Future Nostalgia , which later spawned several hits , including " Levitating , " which was named the biggest song of 2021 on Billboard 's year-end Hot 100 chart . The set , which found an enthusiastic worldwide audience with its playful disco sheen during the COVID-19 lockdown , won best pop vocal album at the Grammys in 2021 . <p> " Future Nostalgia doing what it did allowed me to grow as an artist , to push boundaries and change . It allowed me to have the confidence to make Radical Optimism , " Lipa tells Billboard U.K. " It gave me the freedom and confidence to be like , ' You know who I really want to make an album with ? Kevin Parker . And I want to do something a bit different ; I want to work with Danny L Harle and experiment with my sound , do a different vocal performance and make pop music but allow that to live in another sonic world . ' It 's been fun to shape-shift . " <p> In October , the songs received the ultimate stress test with a performance at London 's Royal Albert Hall , where she enlisted the 53-piece Heritage Orchestra , conducted by Ben Foster ; 14 choristers ; and her regular touring band for a bombastic , glitzy night at the capital 's most iconic music venue . She performed Radical Optimism in full , utilizing the brass section to give new heft to songs like " Houdini , " while elegant strings added another dimension to " French Exit " and " These Walls . " The in-the-round performance was captured for a TV special , An Evening With Dua Lipa ( which aired Dec. 8 on ITV in the United Kingdom and will air Dec. 15 on CBS in the United States ) , and a live album , Dua Lipa Live at the Royal Albert Hall ( out now ) . <p> " When we were in rehearsals , there was nothing quite like it : Those orchestral instrumentations just shook me to the core , " Lipa recalls . " Feeling my music in such a way that was so moving , it made me fall in love with music all over again . " <p> During the concert 's encore , John joined Lipa -- the first time they performed live together -- to sing their collaboration , " Cold Heart , " which topped charts globally upon release in 2021 ( in its PNAU remix ) and interpolates multiple John songs . <p> " Obviously Elton is no stranger to the Albert Hall himself and it felt like such a chic and elegant night , so I needed my most chic and fabulous friend to come and join me . He immediately said yes , " she says . " One thing about Elton is that he always shows up for his friends . He 's super loyal ... he 's just always been there , lending his ear and being so supportive . " <p> The defining Dua Lipa performance of 2024 , however , was not in the austere , lavish Albert Hall but in a Somerset field in southwest England . Worthy Farm , where Glastonbury Festival is held , is usually full of dairy cows gently grazing in the lush greenery , but on June 28 , they were replaced with a sea of sequined spectators for Lipa 's headlining slot on the festival 's Pyramid Stage . The impassioned , fun , formidable set ( during which Parker joined Lipa onstage ) aired live on BBC One and globally on the broadcaster 's website . <p> The show marked her second Glastonbury appearance , following a 2017 mid-afternoon performance that attracted one of that weekend 's biggest crowds -- and , following on the heels of her self-titled debut album 's release , helped catalyze her star turn . <p> Returning as a Pyramid Stage headliner ( on Friday , so she could party the rest of the weekend at the festival with her partner , actor Callum Turner , and some pals ) had been on her agenda ever since . " I try not to let these moments pass me by so I made sure that when I was standing up there I took as many mental pictures as I could , " she says . At one point , she headed out toward the crowd and turned to face the stage , focusing on its apex : a shining white tip sending a beam of light into the starry night sky . <p> Prior to the performance , Lipa had switched off her phone to get in the zone . When she got back to her dressing room afterward , she had a deluge of texts . <p> " It was so beautiful . I had so many messages from previous headliners , " she says . " You sort of earn this badge of honor in that moment , and it felt like I joined the coolest club in the world . " One came from Adele , the last female British act before Lipa to top the bill in 2016 . " She said , ' I 've been thinking about you all day and just wanted to wish you luck for tonight . Do n't forget to soak it all in . ' Looking back at that Pyramid was me trying to do that . " <p> Radical Optimism is the first album Lipa has released since striking a deal with TaP Music , her former management and publishing group , to acquire ownership of her songs , music , masters and publishing rights . The move dovetailed with news that Lipa would now be managed by her father , Dukagjin Lipa , and in 2024 , she expanded her nonmusic offerings : Her company Radical22 produced the Disney+ documentary Camden , about the north London borough and its music scene ; she starred in the action-comedy Argylle ; and her Service95 newsletter -- which compiles recommendations for food , literature and more -- grew in stature . No surprise , then , that The Sunday Times featured her on its annual Rich List , estimating a $113 million ( 90 million pounds ) net worth . <p> " This is really me stepping into my role not just as a creator but as a businesswoman , " she says . " It comes with the understanding that as much as I want to stay on the creative side , I have to be knowledgeable about all aspects of my career if I want to have longevity . <p> " I think for every artist that 's really important -- and as much as we might not want to , as the easiest thing is to go into the studio and write the songs and whatever happens , happens -- it just ca n't be that way , " she continues . " Every artist should be educated on that . It 's really important for us to be in control or at least know what 's happening with our careers and not turn a blind eye . " <p> Elsewhere , she 's consistently voiced support of Gaza during the ongoing Israel-Hamas war , and she was also named a champion for the Trevor Project , the suicide prevention charity that supports LGBTQ+ youth . " Anything I can do as a supporter to help out in any way with the platform that I have , I 'm fully willing and open to all of that , " she says . <p> But , despite her many achievements , something noteworthy eluded Lipa on this cycle : Radical Optimism did not receive any nominations for the upcoming Grammys , a surprise given her 10 career nominations in years past ( including a win for best new artist in 2019 ) and the fact that her performance kicked off the 2024 ceremony . <p> " I 'm so proud of Radical Optimism and where it 's brought me . I love that album and I 'm having the time of my life performing it live , and I 've been able to do things that I thought I could only dream of this year , so I 'm really grateful , " she confidently says of the record 's impact on her career . " Although it would have been nice to be recognized by your industry , especially as a woman , I 'm so proud seeing so many incredible female artists nominated at the Grammys this year . " <p> Lipa has particular love for Charli xcx , a longtime pal who received several Grammy nods for brat . She had a cameo on the remix of Charli 's " Talk talk " alongside Troye Sivan , with Lipa speaking in French and Spanish on the track . <p> " I love her so much and she 's always been a really good friend of mine and been so supportive from day one . She deserves all the flowers , " Lipa says of Charli . " She 's worked her arse off , and it 's so beautiful to see her get the recognition she deserves . She 's really stuck to her guns and allowed herself to be creative in her own way , and it 's paid off . That 's the best thing that can ever happen to an artist . She 's so deserving of every moment . " <p> As for where her own career is , " Overall I 'm really happy with where I am , " Lipa says . " I do n't think it really matters in the grand scheme of things where I am , where I want to be and where I 'm going . It does n't change the way I feel about the record at all . " <p> Now , as 2024 comes to a close , Lipa is enjoying some well-earned rest before her biggest tour yet . In March 2025 , her Radical Optimism tour kicks off its next leg in Australia and New Zealand before heading to Europe and the United Kingdom , which includes two sold-out nights at London 's 90,000-capacity Wembley Stadium and Liverpool 's historic Anfield Stadium . Then in September , she 's off to North America with 24 arena dates including a whopping four nights at New York 's Madison Square Garden and another four at L.A. 's Kia Forum . <p> She speaks about manifestation , the idea that she must imagine her biggest goals and achievements for them to become a reality . In fact , Lipa 's use of the word contributed to the Cambridge Dictionary naming " manifest " its word of the year . She remains coy , however , of what 's next on the agenda . " I ca n't really tell you , as they have to be a secret to come true ... " she says . If her past year is anything to go by , we 'll know it when we see it . 
@@118967421 <h> Israel sees signs of breakthrough in talks over Gaza ceasefire <p> Dec. 17 , 2024Updated Tue. , Dec. 17 , 2024 at 12:37 p.m . <p> Palestinians inspect damage at the site of an Israeli strike on a house amid the Israel-Hamas conflict at the Nuseirat refugee camp in the central Gaza Strip on Dec. 13 , 2024 . ( Moiz Salhi/Middle East Images via AFP/Getty Images/TNS ) <p> Israeli officials say a ceasefire in Gaza is a more realistic prospect than at any time in the past year , suggesting a long-awaited deal to free hostages and boost aid to the beleaguered territory could be close . <p> A working group from Israel is in the Qatari capital of Doha this week to re-establish relations with mediators in the event of a breakthrough in negotiations with Hamas , said the officials , asking not to be identified discussing sensitive information . <p> " There 's a chance to reach a deal and , from what I know , it will involve all 100 hostages , " Diaspora Affairs Minister Amichai Chikli said on Army Radio on Tuesday . " First the humanitarian cases and then the rest . " <p> There 's been no official comment from Hamas . <p> An agreement to at least pause the Israel-Hamas war would end more than a year of frustration , during which talk of an imminent deal has bubbled up intermittently before swiftly collapsing . Negotiations are being mediated by Qatar and Egypt , with oversight from the U.S. , and recent visits to the region from Washington officials may have helped advance the process . <p> Intensive Qatari and Egyptian efforts are underway " with all parties " to reach a truce in Gaza , Cairo-based broadcaster Extranews , which typically represents government thinking , said on X on Tuesday . <p> The BBC cited an unidentified Palestinian official involved in the talks saying that they are in the final stages . <p> Details are mostly under wraps , but two Israeli officials said the ceasefire would come in stages , starting during the administration of outgoing U.S. President Joe Biden and continuing after Donald Trump takes office on Jan. 20 . <p> Adam Boehler , appointed by Trump as a special envoy for hostage affairs in the upcoming administration , is in Israel meeting Netanyahu , among others . Trump has stated he wants the hostages freed before he starts his new term . <p> In the first phase of the deal under discussion , hostages defined as " humanitarian " -- women , the ill and those older than 51 -- would be freed in exchange for Palestinian prisoners held in Israel . There would then be a ceasefire of six to seven weeks during which Israeli troops would withdraw from parts of Gaza , with talks beginning on a permanent truce . <p> Hundreds of aid trucks would enter the Palestinian territory daily during that period , bringing much-needed food , water and health supplies to a population the United Nations and aid groups say is gripped by humanitarian crisis . <p> The second phase , according to the officials , would bring back the remaining hostages -- military-age men , mostly -- in exchange for more Palestinian prisoners . The third stage would see work begin on the reconstruction of Gaza and include the return of bodies of hostages . About half of the 100 still in captivity are thought to be dead . <p> In previous rounds of talks , a major obstacle has been the insistence by Hamas that , from the start , Israel agrees to withdraw all its troops from Gaza . Israel has refused , saying it will not stop its campaign until Hamas is destroyed and can no longer rule the territory . <p> While Hamas has n't publicly acknowledged a change in that stance , Israeli officials say the Iran-backed group has become more flexible . <p> A number of other issues still need to be negotiated , including what constitutes a humanitarian case for a hostage . Israel wants all the women released first , including soldiers . <p> A second sticking point is what security checks would be imposed on Gazans returning to the north of the strip . A third is from where Israeli troops must withdraw , and a fourth is that Israel wants to reserve the right to return to fighting in Gaza . <p> Any of those could stop a deal from reaching fruition . <p> The Israel-Hamas war began in October 2023 when thousands of Hamas militants raided southern Israel from Gaza , killing 1,200 people and abducting 250 . Israel responded with a fearsome assault by air , sea and land , a war that has turned much of the coastal strip into rubble , displaced some 2 million people and , according to the Hamas-run health ministry , killed 45,000 . <p> Hamas is considered a terrorist group by the U.S. and many other governments . Israel says it 's killed nearly 20,000 militants but does n't say how many civilians . <p> Just over a year ago , more than 100 hostages were exchanged for hundreds of Palestinian prisoners and a boost in humanitarian aid . But a deal to maintain that peace quickly fell apart . <p> During the course of the war , other Iran-allied militias have joined in the attacks on Israel in solidarity with Hamas , including Hezbollah in Lebanon and the Houthis in Yemen . Israel has fought back , killing the leadership of Hezbollah and severely degrading the group 's military capabilities . A ceasefire with Hezbollah was agreed to in late November , which the U.S. said would give impetus to the stalled talks over Gaza . <p> Iran has twice exchanged direct fire with Israel but is on the back foot , particularly after the ouster of key ally , Syria 's ex-President Bashar al-Assad . Israel launched a major offensive on Syria immediately after his toppling , seeking to destroy weapons sites before they fell into the hands of hostile Islamist groups . <p> All this has left Hamas isolated and weak . That , according to the Israelis , is why the group appears to have softened its demands and why a deal seems more achievable . <p> The Spokesman-Review Newspaper <p> Local journalism is essential . <p> Give directly to The Spokesman-Review 's Northwest Passages community forums series -- which helps to offset the costs of several reporter and editor positions at the newspaper -- by using the easy options below . Gifts processed in this system are not tax deductible , but are predominately used to help meet the local financial requirements needed to receive national matching-grant funds . 
@@118967532 <p> One of Donald Trump 's closing campaign arguments was that he would deliver a new " golden age " for America . This week , he announced that this Trump-powered golden age has already begun . <p> That 's fitting insofar as Trump has rapidly eclipsed the current president , Joe Biden , in setting expectations and even an agenda for America at home and abroad . It feels as if the clock on the second Trump administration has already started . <p> So has the usual fight over who should get the credit -- or blame -- for the economy the next president inherits . This happens to some extent with every new president , regardless of party and not just on the subject of the economy . <p> As public opinion of Donald Trump , climate change and more show , the press is not as important as journalists and their detractors claim , especially now . <p> Dec. 3 , 2024 <p> Ronald Reagan 's vice president , George H.W. Bush , inherited his economy , but Bush 's aides were quick to note that he also inherited an inevitable recession and a savings and loan crisis from the Gipper . In the closing days of this year 's election , Barack Obama complained that Trump had inherited his economic successes in 2017 . <p> Trump has reason to jump the gun on taking credit for the economy now : It 's doing amazingly well . <p> That 's not to minimize the pain of many Americans or ignore economic problems such as skyrocketing debt , inflation and dislocations in some regions and industries . Even amid a macroeconomic boom , people live in microeconomic circumstances . <p> Advertisement <p> The U.S. economy is nevertheless the envy of the world . Do n't take my word for it : The cover of a special issue of the Economist in October described the American economy as just that , the " Envy of the World , " noting that the United States " has left other rich countries in the dust . " The Financial Times reached the same conclusion this month . <p> The human rights group 's report on the war with Hamas in Gaza acknowledges that prevailing interpretations of international law undermine its accusation . <p> Dec. 10 , 2024 <p> It 's a stark contrast to the 1990s , when many expected Europe 's economies to leave ours in the dust . In 2008 , the European Union 's economy was 10% bigger than that of the United States . By 2022 , it was 23% smaller . The EU grew 21% during this period , but the American economy grew 72% . <p> Today the U.S. economy generates about a quarter of global output . U.S. stocks account for 65% of global equities , while Japan , China and the United Kingdom combined account for just over 10% . If Britain were an American state , it would barely edge out Mississippi -- our poorest state -- in per capita gross domestic product . <p> Advertisement <p> There are many reasons for this . Americans simply workharder than citizens of other rich countries . Our productivity has outstripped the eurozone 's more than 3 to 1 since 2008 . Our business culture is different too : We are the most entrepreneurial country in the world , and we regard business failure not as a cause for shame but as useful experience for the next attempt . America is also better at assimilating immigrants than most countries , and the immigrants we tend to attract generally work very hard . <p> I could go on . The point is that we have had different presidents with very different policies and even more different rhetoric over the last 30 years . But U.S. economic trends -- with the usual dips and spikes -- have been largely positive through all of those presidencies . <p> As the Manhattan Institute 's Brian Riedl put it in National Affairs , " The notion that there is a simple partisan pattern to the health of the economy is an extension of the exaggerated politicization of our understanding of contemporary American life . " <p> Recent dissatisfaction with the economy , spurred by inflation , fueled the idea that America was doing especially awful under Biden . Again , we live in microeconomies , so it 's understandable that many people had that view . But we 've still been doing better than pretty much everyone else . <p> Trump 's focus on the economic downside was typical for a presidential challenger and fair enough . But he was wrong to suggest that our competitors were eating our lunch . <p> None of this is to suggest that presidents and their economic policies do n't matter . It 's just that they do n't matter as much as presidents and their partisans claim they do . <p> Jonah Goldberg is editor in chief of the Dispatch and has been a Los Angeles Times Opinion columnist since 2005 . He holds the Asness Chair in Applied Liberty at the American Enterprise Institute . He was previously senior editor at National Review and lives in Washington , D.C. 
@@118979039 <p> 2024 featured plenty of memorable collaborations from NxWorries , Kendrick Lamar , and more artists . <p> The last year may have been marred with some of the most viral feuds in hip-hop history , but that does n't mean 2024 was n't filled with phenomenal hip-hop collaborations as well . Even while sparking one of the biggest rifts in years , Kendrick Lamar worked with both Metro Boomin and Future to kick off his war of words with Drake . Anderson . Paak and Knxwledge finally reunited for a new NxWorries album , Boldy James once again partnered with Nicholas Craven , and ASAP Rocky even reached outside of the genre to tap the elusive folk singer , Jessica Pratt , for his Do n't Be Dumb lead single . Altogether , the following hip-hop collaborations have helped lead 2024 to be one of the strongest stretches for hip-hop in recent memory . <h> Future , Metro Boomin , Kendrick Lamar - " Like That " <p> Arguably the most important song on this list for defining this year in hip-hop came from Future , Metro Boomin , and especially Kendrick Lamar . " Like That " launched one of the biggest feuds in the history of the genre , serving as an impetus for countless diss tracks including what may well be the song of the year . Lamar 's fiery verse alone was so headline-grabbing , you might forget Metro Boomin and Future put together an amazing song around it . In what has amounted to a busy year for Future , he gave one of his best choruses when it mattered most . <h> Mach-Hommy , Kaytranada , &amp; 03 Greedo - " #RICHAXXHAITIAN " <p> " #RICHAXXHAITIAN " is a show of force for Mach-Hommy . Teaming up with Kaytranada 's quick-hitting , colorful production for a second time following 2021 's " $payforhaiti , " the underground rapper showcases his hypnotic flows in his most accessible way yet while staying true to his unparalleled lyrical and thematic depth . 03 Greedo chimes in to make singing along to the hook irresistible . <h> MIKE &amp; Tony Seltzer - " Pinball " <p> MIKE has become a staple on year-end lists this decade and 2024 is no different . Teaming up with fellow Brooklyn producer Tony Seltzer , MIKE 's latest project , Pinball , feels like a short and sweet victory lap following the biggest album of his career , Burning Desire . Across just 21 minutes , MIKE bounces over Seltzer 's vibrant , shifting beats for some of his most confidently energetic music yet . <p> El Cousteau included only one feature on his new album , Merci , Non Merci , but it alone was strong enough to position him among the best of the year . For " Words2LiveBy , " he teamed up with the elusive Earl Sweatshirt to drop a career-best single . Earl 's contribution has been getting ample attention on social media and rightfully so . With politically charged bars like " Free Gaza , we on the corner like Israelites , " mixed with emotional proclamations such as , " I 'm not okay , but I 'm gon ' be all right , " he takes the song 's title to heart . Cousteau 's verse is nothing to slouch at either with its raspily delivered bars about dodging task forces and smoking more than Bob Marley . <h> Boldy James &amp; Nicholas Craven - " Penalty of Leadership " <p> Penalty of Leadership arrived at the start of 2024 , a year after Boldy James ' near-fatal car accident that left him with broken vertebrae . The incident is everpresent across the project , whether it be a simple glance at the artwork or recognized through the languished vocals Boldy uses to deliver blunt bars about the incident on tracks like " Brand New Chanel Kicks . " Together with Nicholas Craven 's penchant for finding the perfect sample , Boldy easily dropped one of the best collaborative projects of the year . <h> NxWorries ( Anderson . Paak &amp; Knxwledge ) - " Why Lawd ? " <p> Finally following up on their iconic 2016 collaboration , Yes Lawd ! , Anderson . Paak and Knxwledge proved why they 've been able to retain excitement for a sophomore album for nearly a decade with the release of Why Lawd ? Over the last eight years , . Paak has honed his craft with the release of several critically acclaimed albums , including the massively successful An Evening With Silk Sonic with Bruno Mars , and the maturity shines through in 2024 . The new effort features some of . Paak 's most emotionally candid and vulnerable music yet , while Knxwledge provides a beautifully strung web of production for him to bare his soul across . <h> Sampha &amp; Little Simz - " Satellite Business 2.0 " <p> This year may have been a bit quieter for Sampha than 2023 , but it 's telling that he decided to work with Little Simz for the first single from the deluxe edition of his album , Lahai . " She 's one of my favourite artists , " Sampha said of Simz in a press release caught by Rolling Stone . " Her confidence and creative bravery are so refreshing , it 's amazing to see someone giving so much to their art . " Reworking the original version of " Satellite Business , " Simz joins in to give the track a bolstered level of passion through her existential verse , elevating it to one of the best collaborations of the year . <h> Doechii &amp; JT - " Alter Ego " <p> It 's been a career year for Doechii , who dropped her critically acclaimed third mixtape , Alligator Bites Never Heal , while also lending her talents to songs from high-profile artists such as Tyler , The Creator and Ab-Soul . The effort resulted in several Grammy nominations , including Best New Artist . But before all that , she previewed the year that was to come with her single , " Alter Ego , " with JT . Prophetically , the track kicks open with her emphatic bars announcing the arrival of " Doechii season . " <h> A$AP Rocky &amp; Jessica Pratt - " HIGHJACK " <p> While 2024 has come and gone without the long-awaited release of ASAP Rocky 's fourth studio album , Do n't Be Dumb , he has held fans over with some of his best music in years . On " HIGHJACK , " he brags over beautiful backing vocals about his influence in both hip-hop and fashion while noting his marriage to Rihanna . He even seemingly throws a quick jab Drake 's way by referencing the aforementioned , " Like That . " And this is all before Jessica Pratt , who has been having a huge year of her own , fades in to close out the track with some of the best vocals on a hip-hop song this year . <p> It 's not too often we get to see two hip-hop legends with as much experience as Common and Pete Rock collaborate for an entire album like The Auditorium Vol. 1 . On the new project , they work in tandem to recapture the glory days of hip-hop as they see it , with dense lyricism and crisp production . It 's no surprise Common labeled the project the best in his storied discography during an interview ahead of its release . <p> Cole Blake is a current staff writer at HotNewHipHop based out of New York City . He began writing for the site as an intern back in 2018 while finishing his B.A. in Journalism at St. John 's University . In the time since , he 's covered a number of breaking stories for HNHH . These include the ongoing YSL RICO trial , the allegations surrounding Diddy , and much more . His work also extends outside of hip-hop , having written extensively about a myriad of topics including politics , sports , and pop culture . He 's attended several music festivals to provide coverage for the site as well , such as Rolling Loud and Governors Ball . 
@@118984526 <p> I 'm a strong supporter of institutional neutrality at universities . We should n't issue statements about contested political questions , because any " official " position threatens to squash dialogue and dissent . <p> " From time to time instances will arise in which the society , or segments of it , threaten the very mission of the university and its values of free inquiry , " Kalven wrote . " In such a crisis , it becomes the obligation of the university as an institution to oppose such measures and actively to defend its interests and values . " <p> The university has reached such a time , right now . And the threat to our interests and values has a name : Robert F. Kennedy Jr . <p> It is our institutional obligation to speak out against Donald Trump 's nomination of Kennedy as secretary of Health and Human Services . <p> Did a statement fail to call the Hamas attack " terrorism " ? The university got labeled pro-Palestinian , or even antisemitic . But if a statement said Hamas was a terrorist group -- or if it did n't condemn civilian deaths in Gaza -- then the school was supposedly biased towards Israel . <p> I get it . It was unwise for universities to take official positions about the Israel-Palestine situation , for exactly the reasons that Kalven spelled out a half-century ago . When there are reasonable arguments on both sides of an issue , we should n't give our imprimatur to one or the other . <p> That 's why an estimated two dozen universities issued Kalven-like policies in 2024 , pledging institutional neutrality on complex public issues . And good on them . <p> But Kennedy 's medical claims are n't controversies about which informed people disagree ; they are lies . And they directly imperil our institutions , which rest in large part on scientific research and instruction . <p> Perhaps the schools imagined that leaders with medical backgrounds would appear less " political " than , say , someone from the humanities or social sciences . But politics has arrived at their doorstep anyway , in the form of RFK Jr . <p> It 's time for them to step up . Universities should n't issue statements about everything under the sun , that 's for sure . But , just as surely , they need to defend their institutions when they 're under fire . <p> I suspect that they 're afraid to get in the new Trump administration 's crosshairs , so they 're keeping quiet . But silence in the face of existential danger is n't wisdom or prudence . It 's cowardice . 
@@119012228 <p> The comments section is closed . To submit a letter to the editor for publication , write to letters@nytimes.com. <h> 2024 The Year in Pictures <h> Far From Ordinary <p> By Carolyn Ryan <p> When shots were fired at a campaign rally for former President Donald J. Trump on a July evening in Butler , Pa. , the veteran New York Times photographer Doug Mills was just a few feet from him . As the Secret Service rushed toward Mr. Trump , Mr. Mills 's heart pounded when he realized what was happening . <p> Then instinct took over . Mr. Mills kept taking pictures , at an extremely fast shutter speed of one eight-thousandth of a second , capturing an image that illustrates the magnitude of that moment : Mr. Trump , his face streaked with blood , his fist raised in defiance . <p> This year was made up of such extraordinary moments . And Times photographers captured them in extraordinary images . The Year in Pictures brings you the most powerful , evocative and history-making of those images -- and allows you to see the biggest stories of 2024 through our photographers ' eyes . <p> The presidential campaign -- full of twists and turns -- provided some of our most memorable photos . Kenny Holston captured a shaky President Biden struggling to find his footing in what turned out to be his only debate of the 2024 election . Erin Schaff conveyed the exhilaration surrounding Vice President Kamala Harris in the short sprint of her campaign . And Todd Heisler brought home the excitement of an 8-year-old girl in pigtails , Ms. Harris 's great-niece , who watched with pride as Ms. Harris accepted her party 's nomination for president . <p> Yet even as the American political campaign intensified , wars ground on overseas , creating new dangers and obstacles for our photojournalists determined to document the fighting . The war between Hamas and Israel escalated into a regional conflict , and our photographers depicted the Israeli airstrikes on Lebanon , the families forced to flee their homes and the neighborhoods reduced to rubble . <p> When Israeli forces recovered the bodies of six hostages in Gaza , our photographers revealed the pain of the captives ' families as they cried out at their loved ones ' funerals after 11 months of anguished waiting . And last month , Samar Abu Elouf , a Palestinian photographer for The Times , delivered some of the most indelible images of the year : a series of portraits of Gazans horribly injured in the war , including children who had lost arms , legs or eyes . <p> Children were also central to the work of Lynsey Addario , a veteran photographer who has been chronicling the war in Ukraine since Russia first invaded in 2022 . Ms. Addario 's images tell the stories of young Ukrainians with cancer whose treatment was disrupted by the war , often with devastating results . One , a 5-year-old girl whose chemotherapy was upended by the Russian invasion , ultimately lost her life . <p> Our photographers embrace their calling of bearing witness to history , showing readers the atrocities and the suffering that might otherwise be overlooked . But they also see their mission more broadly , and aim to depict the richness and color of life by regularly bringing us pictures that delight and surprise . <p> Take the photo by Hiroko Masuike from the ticker-tape parade in October for the New York Liberty women 's basketball team . The young fans pictured radiate a kind of awe-struck joy , screaming to the players by name . Or the photographs that show the sense of wonder on the faces of people at Niagara Falls as they bask in the magic of a solar eclipse in April . <p> We hope you can spend some time with these pictures , and take in our photographers ' reflections on them . This collection of images is a way to remember the year , but it is also , we hope , an opportunity to better understand their craft and their devotion to producing the world 's best photojournalism . <h> January <p> Arivaca , Ariz. , Jan. 13 Migrants climbing over the border wall between Mexico and a ranch in Arizona . When the ranch owners discovered that migrants were becoming stranded , they installed water fountains in the desert to help keep people alive . <p> Erin Schaff/The New York Times <p> Rochester , N.H. , Jan. 21 A mobile billboard displaying former President Donald J. Trump 's mug shot before the New Hampshire primary , which he went on to win despite facing 91 criminal charges in four cases . <p> John Tully for The New York Times <p> " I was covering a Trump event at the Rochester Opera House , and I was taking a back way up some steps , seeing what I could see . There was a truck that had a digital screen that was rotating through images , and that one popped up . I find that more interesting things are happening on the outskirts . All the chaos was inside . " -- John Tully <p> Luhansk , Ukraine , Jan. 21 Russian soldiers killed on the battlefield in eastern Ukraine , left behind in a maelstrom of violence where the struggle to stay alive often outweighed concern for the dead . <p> Tyler Hicks/The New York Times <p> " This struck me as an image that showed how stark and cold this war can be . This scene is played out on both sides every day . And if you think about all of the battles that are happening at any given moment , you can only imagine the number of incidents like this that are costing the lives of young men . " -- Tyler Hicks <p> Kharkiv , Ukraine , Jan. 20 A group of civilian volunteers called Platsdarm collected bodies from the bloody fields and battered villages of eastern Ukraine . A cross on a chain was found on the body of a Russian soldier . <p> Tyler Hicks/The New York Times <p> Iowa City , Jan. 17 Young fans waiting to take a picture with Caitlin Clark . The basketball star shattered scoring records in both college and the W.N.B.A. , where she was the No. 1 draft pick this year . <p> Hilary Swift for The New York Times <p> " It was amazing to go into the arena and see so many people there and such massive support for not only an Iowa team , but a women 's team . There were so many little girls there who were so excited and stoked to be in Clark 's presence . They can now aspire to having similarly successful careers . " -- Hilary Swift <p> Manhattan , Jan. 22 The artist Cindy Sherman , who folds photographic nips and tucks right in with her aging subjects ' wrinkles . She said she saw the disjunctions in her new work 's faces almost as an exercise in Cubism . <p> Caroline Tompkins for The New York Times <p> Las Vegas , Jan. 19 Hannah Neeleman , a Utah homemaker known to her millions of online fans as Ballerina Farm , competed in the Mrs. World pageant two weeks after giving birth . She breastfed her baby backstage after the crowning of the winner . <p> Bridget Bennett for The New York Times <p> Manhattan , Jan. 30 Yusef Salaam , a City Council member who was wrongfully convicted in 1990 as part of the Central Park Five , explaining his vote to override the mayor 's veto of two criminal justice bills . The Council passed both laws . <p> Dave Sanders for The New York Times <p> " Salaam said that he wondered how his life might have been different if these laws had existed in 1989 . I had positioned myself in front of him , thinking it might be more personal for him than other members . He became choked up while speaking , and Avil ? s , a co-sponsor of the legislation , came over to embrace him . It was a powerful moment . " -- Dave Sanders <p> Central Gaza Strip , Jan. 8 A destroyed Palestinian house , emblematic of the sheer destruction wrought by Israel 's war in the territory and the devastation of Hamas 's operations . <p> Avishag Shaar-Yashuv for The New York Times <p> " I tried hard to show the life there , but we could n't see any people . So I tried to feel the life there in the houses . I wanted to show the view that was there before the war . This was a way to see the view from this house -- even if it was n't through the windows but through a broken wall . " -- Avishag Shaar-Yashuv <p> Rafah , Gaza Strip , Jan. 9 Palestinians lining up for free food . Officials said that inspections , bottlenecks and safety concerns were limiting the flow of aid in the territory , contributing to a growing humanitarian crisis . <p> Hatem Ali/Associated Press <p> Bakhmut , Ukraine , Jan. 22 Wounded Russian soldiers being treated near the front line at an underground hospital , where medical personnel operate in rooms set up in a warren of tunnels that once served as a wine cellar . <p> Nanna Heitmann for The New York Times <p> " I was standing at this particular place all night . I had dozens of frames of different patients . They were undressing the man in this photo , and it was unclear if he would make it . They brought him to the surgery room in the back to amputate his leg and arm , his hip and part of his genitals . " -- Nanna Heitmann <h> February <p> Los Angeles , Feb. 18 A construction worker covering the side of a hill with plastic tarp in the Baldwin Hills neighborhood as the region braced for an atmospheric river that was expected to bring heavy rains . <p> Las Vegas , Feb. 11 Travis Kelce and Taylor Swift celebrating after his team won the Super Bowl . Their relationship dominated the N.F.L. conversation all season , attracting a new audience for the league and inspiring strong emotions among fans . <p> Doug Mills/The New York Times <p> Manhattan , Feb. 2 Marc Jacobs brought the living paper-doll look to the runway before Fashion Month kicked off . Models arrived seven hours early to get ready , and a team of 50 dressers helped them into the show 's 47 looks . <p> Simbarashe Cha/The New York Times <p> Khan Younis , Gaza , Feb. 9 Shaymaa Shady , 5 , left , and Sarah Yusuf , 5 , center , were among a group of 16 young people airlifted to hospitals in Italy after suffering grievous injuries in the course of Israel 's campaign against Hamas . <p> Nariman El-Mofty for The New York Times <p> Trostyanets , Ukraine , Feb. 19 After nearly two years , the family of Serhiy Hrebinyk , a Ukrainian marine captured by the Russians in Mariupol , still hoped he would come home . His sister Kateryna wore a dog tag featuring his image . <p> David Guttenfelder for The New York Times <p> " I went with Serhiy 's sister and mom to the church to light candles for him , and I noticed the tag around her neck . There was something touching about the relationship between the brother and sister , with the siblings so close in age . I photographed it up close so we could see his face . " -- David Guttenfelder <p> Dover Air Force Base in Delaware , Feb. 2 President Biden honoring three Army reservists who were killed in an attack on a base in Jordan . Their bodies were returned to the United States in a ceremony known as a dignified transfer . <p> Kenny Holston/The New York Times <p> " I was a combat photographer for the Air Force , and this is something I had covered while I was still in the military . I tried to give depth to a serious , sad and solemn situation . The principals standing at the back of the plane with their heads down -- that was a picture that I knew would drive the point home . " -- Kenny Holston <p> Rafah , Gaza , Feb. 28 Children in a burned-out car . A United Nations official said that at least a quarter of Gaza 's residents were " one step away from famine , " and that one in six children under 2 in northern Gaza were acutely malnourished . <p> Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images <p> Amsterdam , Feb. 17 Aleksei Navalny , an anticorruption activist who led the political opposition in President Vladimir V. Putin 's Russia , spent months in a Russian prison before his death . Memorials were held around the world , including in Dam Square . <p> Remko De Waal/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images <p> Athens , Ga. , Feb. 26 Mourners attending a vigil at the University of Georgia for Laken Riley , a 22-year-old nursing student who was killed on campus . Jose Antonio Ibarra , a migrant from Venezuela , was charged in her death . <p> Melissa Golden for The New York Times <h> March <p> Baltimore , March 26 The collapse of the cargo ship Dali 's vital operating systems left the vessel adrift until it ultimately collided with the Francis Scott Key Bridge , knocking it into the Patapsco River and killing six people . <p> Erin Schaff/The New York Times <p> Columbus , Ga. , March 24 A full military funeral was held for Pvt . Albert King , a Black soldier killed by a white military police officer in 1941 . It was part of an Army effort to correct its record on race going back to the Civil War . <p> Alyssa Pointer for The New York Times <p> " This was a reverent moment . The family is about to participate in a funeral they have been waiting years for . It was a somber experience and good to know the man was getting the respect he needed . I wanted to get as close as I possibly could to show the contrast between the hands and the flag . " -- Alyssa Pointer <p> Brooklyn , March 20 Aldryn Zea , a migrant from Venezuela , resting at a warehouse that was converted into a shelter . Its capacity grew to 4,000 as the city grappled with an influx of migrants . <p> Todd Heisler/The New York Times <p> The Beaufort Sea , March 16 The U.S.S. Hampton , a nuclear-powered submarine , surfacing for Operation Ice Camp , a Navy mission aimed at sharpening sailors ' combat skills in the Arctic as Russia expanded military operations there . <p> Kenny Holston/The New York Times <p> " We were in the middle of the Arctic on a giant floating piece of ice , and out of nowhere a submarine surfaced through the ice . It felt as if I was on a different planet . Trying to work in such harsh conditions was so challenging . I had to use hand warmers to warm up the cameras . " -- Kenny Holston <p> Zaporizhzhia region , Ukraine , March 15 A Ukrainian soldier taking part in a training exercise . Ukrainian troops in the region were working to defend an area created by the previous summer 's counteroffensive , a 10-mile-deep semicircle pressing into Russian-held territory . <p> Brendan Hoffman for The New York Times <h> April <p> Northern Gaza , April 23 Aid being parachuted into the Gaza Strip . Rules enforced by Israel , stolen shipments and difficult terrain made it a challenge for humanitarian groups to deliver aid in more traditional ways . <p> Omar Al-Qatta/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images <p> " I went to the site and found thousands of citizens gathered near the destroyed buildings , waiting for the arrival of the planes . I carefully chose a shooting angle that showed the destruction , the aid and the people together in a single frame . The joy on people 's faces was evident as they received the aid and walked away , relieved and happy . " -- Omar Al-Qatta <p> Los Angeles , April 26 Pro-Palestinian demonstrators camping out at the University of California , Los Angeles . After several days , the university declared the encampment illegal and threatened consequences if the protesters did not leave -- but demonstrations continued . <p> Mark Abramson for The New York Times <p> " These students were sitting and waiting for their professor , who was leading the class to take a midterm math exam . I had this vantage point to see the encampment from above . Rather than just the scale of the encampment itself you get -- literally -- a window into these two worlds colliding . It was a different way of seeing the situation . " -- Mark Abramson <p> Eagle Pass , Texas , April 8 The first total solar eclipse in seven years plunged the day into darkness across a swath of North America , reminding all in its path of Earth 's place in the cosmos . <p> Todd Heisler/The New York Times <p> From the project " Watching the Total Eclipse Across North America , " April 8 As darkness raced across the sky during the total solar eclipse , people in Murphysboro , Ill. ; Cuatro Ci ? negas , Mexico ; Fredericton , New Brunswick ; and Columbus , Ohio , gathered outside to look up for a moment of reverence . <p> Clockwise from top left ; Andrea Morales for The New York Times , Luis Antonio Rojas for The New York Times , Chris Donovan for The New York Times , Ashley Gilbertson for The New York Times <p> Randall 's Island , April 19 People praying on Randall 's Island , a strip of land in the East River that is home to one of New York City 's largest migrant shelters . The city announced it would close the shelter in early 2025 . <p> Todd Heisler/The New York Times <p> Omdurman , Sudan , April 21 Skeletal remains , apparently of a fighter for the Rapid Support Forces , a powerful paramilitary group . A feud between two generals dragged the country into civil war , creating one of the world 's worst humanitarian catastrophes . <p> Ivor Prickett for The New York Times <p> " This scene was in one of those areas that had been fiercely fought over through the previous year and had been liberated by government forces . We were touring around these heavily destroyed areas , trying to piece together what had happened . I 've seen worse , but there 's something about seeing a skull -- it 's never not going to be disturbing . " -- Ivor Prickett <p> Hualien , Taiwan , April 3 A magnitude-7.4 earthquake , the strongest to hit Taiwan in 25 years , killed 17 and injured over 1,000 others . It caused the most damage in Hualien , where several buildings tilted as their ground-floor levels were crushed . <p> Lam Yik Fei for The New York Times <p> Johannesburg , April 3 Athenkosi Fani posing for photographs after graduating from the University of Johannesburg . He , like many other young people in South Africa , felt disillusioned heading into a pivotal election this year and planned not to vote . <p> Joao Silva/The New York Times <p> Manhattan , April 17 Youth America Grand Prix , a student ballet group , set out to gather a record number of ballet dancers on pointe at the same time . The group needed at least 307 -- and got 353 . <p> Earl Wilson/The New York Times <p> Paris , Tenn. , April 9 Summer , who was a teenage mom and leader of the Lady Jaguars when The New York Times followed the basketball team of troubled girls more than a decade earlier , is now a mother of seven . Her youngest is Kayra , born last year . <p> Ruth Fremson/The New York Times <p> Manhattan , April 25 This year , Eddie Redmayne took on the role of the Emcee , an indecorous impresario of a bawdy Berlin nightclub , in " Cabaret . " The performance earned him a Tony Award nomination for best leading actor in a musical . <p> Dana Scruggs for The New York Times <p> " Sometimes celebrities will come to get their portrait taken and it 's kind of like picture day , and they 're not engaged in the process . But even though I had a very short period of time , Eddie was fully engaged in making these images with me . I love this ; it feels like Eddie is connecting with the person looking at the photograph . " -- Dana Scruggs <h> May <p> East Taiga , Mongolia , May 30 Shurentsetseg Ganbold , a health worker , treats semi-nomadic reindeer herders who follow their herd wherever it roams . She travels for hours to meet them where they are , and when no horses are available she rides a reindeer . <p> Chang W. Lee/The New York Times <p> " The nomads , they are scattered around , and when she visits them she rides a reindeer there , usually just for fun . But there was one nomad who lived in a hut farther away from the others . The doctor really wanted to visit her and did n't want to wait until the next day . It was getting dark , so riding the reindeer helped . " -- Chang W. Lee <p> Manhattan , May 29 Donald J. Trump leaving court during his criminal trial . The next day , he was found guilty of 34 felony counts of falsifying business records to cover up a sex scandal , making him the first former U.S. president to be a felon . <p> Doug Mills/The New York Times <p> " It was not a pleasant time for him . Every day , every time he left the courtroom , there was a show of defiance when he would talk about the judge or the trial or the witch hunt he thought it was . It was either a vocal show of defiance or a hand gesture of defiance . " -- Doug Mills <p> Kharkiv region , Ukraine , May 14 A bus filled with evacuees from Vovchansk and nearby small villages that were in the path of Russia 's surge across the border . They were among the thousands of people heading to Kharkiv , Ukraine 's second-largest city . <p> Emile Ducke for The New York Times <p> " Something that struck me was that many of the evacuees had already seen their homes occupied and had lived through an occupation in the first months of the war . Now they were fleeing yet another Russian assault . " -- Emile Ducke <p> Kharkiv , Ukraine , May 17 Smoke rising from the site of a strike on industrial buildings as Russian troops advanced on the city . Ukrainian officials and military analysts described the push as an attempt to stretch Ukraine 's already outnumbered forces . <p> Finbarr O'Reilly for The New York Times <p> Kyiv , Ukraine , May 20 President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine , his army struggling after over two years of war , beseeched the United States and Europe to do more . " Shoot down what 's in the sky over Ukraine , " he said . " And give us the weapons to use against Russian forces on the borders . " <p> Daniel Berehulak/The New York Times <p> Swan Lake , N.Y. , May 9 A group of men traveled to the Catskills to join a weekend-long retreat with All Kings , a New York nonprofit that aims to help men tap into stronger , kinder and more purposeful versions of themselves . <p> Kadar Small for The New York Times <p> Manhattan , May 6 Gwendoline Christie wore Maison Margiela to the Met Gala , the theme of which was " Garden of Time . " For the party , the Metropolitan Museum of Art was transformed by greenery and filled with musicians and dancers , creating a dreamscape just off Fifth Avenue . <p> Landon Nordeman for The New York Times <p> " The Met Gala is by far my favorite assignment of the year . There is incredible energy inside , and I am trying to make honest pictures in the midst of all of this over-the-top artistry and costume role-playing. " -- Landon Nordeman <p> Greenfield , Iowa , May 22 Cassie Marckmann , left , comforted Jeri Pickrell as she sorted through belongings after a deadly tornado tore through the small town of about 2,000 people . <p> Rachel Mummey for The New York Times <p> " Jeri 's husband had sustained serious lung damage . The basement walls had collapsed , and he had been holding the walls up from crushing them . They were $940 away from paying off their house , and now they have to start over from scratch . They 're stuck in limbo . It was just really traumatic for them . " -- Rachel Mummey <p> Atlanta , May 19 A Morehouse professor turned away as President Biden delivered the commencement address at the historically Black men 's college . Some students also turned their backs or wore keffiyehs or Palestinian flags in protest of his presence at the ceremony . <p> Michael A. McCoy for The New York Times <p> " I kept hearing about students at Morehouse not wanting Biden to come speak . They felt he had other things he could have been doing , like worrying about the war in Israel and Gaza . This was a professor at Morehouse . She stood there and held that position for minutes . It was a quiet moment . " -- Michael McCoy <h> June <p> Mina , Saudi Arabia , June 16 Pilgrims arriving to perform the symbolic " stoning of the devil " ritual as part of the hajj . At least 1,300 people died during the pilgrimage to Mecca amid record ? h ? eat . <p> Fadel Senna/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images <p> Nairobi , Kenya , June 25 Outrage over proposed tax increases drove Kenyans to the streets across the country , leading to violent clashes with the police who used water cannons to disperse the protesters . <p> Brian Otieno for The New York Times <p> " It was a showdown between the police and the young people . The police were pressing the youths , firing water cannons at them , and tear gas , and the youths were steadfast . They were not going anywhere . It was crazy . It was chaotic . And the protests were effective : The finance bill that brought on the protests was withdrawn . " -- Brian Otieno <p> Atlanta , June 27 In a testy , personal clash at the first presidential debate , President Biden failed to ease worries about his age as former President Donald J. Trump forcefully made his case with limited resistance . <p> Kenny Holston/The New York Times <p> " I could see right out of the gate a lot of Trump dominance . It seemed like Biden was trying to catch up and could n't get his footing . I was trying to make pictures that captured that . The expressions on each of their faces -- Trump forging forward and Biden losing his footing -- that was the vibe in the debate hall . " -- Kenny Holston <p> Raleigh , N.C. , June 28 At a rally the day after his shaky debate performance , President Biden tried to beat back doubts about his fitness for office , firing up a crowd of supporters with an energetic speech . <p> Damon Winter/The New York Times <p> " There had been so much talk already about President Biden 's age and fitness to run for a second term , but the debate intensified the calls for him to step aside . In the front row , this woman exemplified the sense of panic that gripped the party with only a few months to go before the election . " -- Damon Winter <p> Parkland , Fla. , June 14 Six years after a gunman killed 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in one of the deadliest school shootings in American history , the site of the attack was torn down . <p> Scott McIntyre for The New York Times <p> Inglewood , Calif. , June 19 Kendrick Lamar , left , sharing a moment with Ab-Soul during a Juneteenth concert hosted by Lamar after he unofficially won a high-profile diss war with his hip-hop rival , Drake . <p> Gabriella Angotti-Jones for The New York Times <h> July <p> Toretsk , Ukraine , July 13 An artillery unit of Ukraine 's 95th Separate Air Assault Brigade firing a howitzer at Russian troops trying to capture the eastern city , which had been under relentless assault . <p> Tyler Hicks/The New York Times <p> " Coverage of the war in Ukraine is not only in the trenches , but also at artillery positions such as this one . These positions in the past have been considered a safe way to cover the war . Now , because of armed drones , they have become as dangerous as infantry positions . There is no such thing as a safe haven for anybody . " -- Tyler Hicks <p> New Orleans , July 6 Vice President Kamala Harris waiting backstage before an appearance at the Essence Festival of Culture , where she promoted the Biden administration 's achievements on issues like Black maternal health . <p> Erin Schaff/The New York Times <p> " When I started traveling with her about a month before she became the candidate , things were a lot slower . Then the energy ramped up incredibly quickly after she was tapped to run for president . It was a huge shift -- and it became this whirlwind short campaign to define her and who she is to the American public . " -- Erin Schaff <p> Adre , Chad , July 12 Fleeing war and a looming famine , Sudanese families like Adam Omar Osman , his wife , Fatima Hassan , and their four children crossed from the Darfur region to a refugee camp in Chad . <p> Ivor Prickett for The New York Times <p> Chernivtsi , Ukraine , July 28 Sonya Liakh , 6 , gave herself medication with a syringe as she lay next to her mother , Natalia Kryvolapchuk . Sonya 's treatment for eye cancer was interrupted by the Russian invasion , allowing tumors to spread . <p> Lynsey Addario for The New York Times <p> " There are so many elements of this photograph that break my heart -- Sonya 's withering body as she nears the end of her life , the visible tumors emerging from her neck , the fentanyl patch on her arm , the look on Sonya 's face , her mother 's face , and the bags of apples and snacks she insisted on having nearby but she no longer ate . " -- Lynsey Addario <p> Guanare , Venezuela , July 17 Barred from running for president herself , Mar ? a Corina Machado , the leader of Venezuela 's opposition , helped galvanize support behind the candidate challenging President Nicol ? s Maduro in elections . <p> Adriana Loureiro Fernandez for The New York Times <p> " This was a rural area , and everyone from nearby came by to see her . I had not seen turnout like this . That town especially was really emotional ; you saw a lot of people crying . You could kind of feel the desperation . In that specific moment it was chaotic . We photographers had to climb on nearby cars to take photos . " -- Adriana Loureiro Fernandez <p> Butler , Pa. , July 13 A bullet streaked past former President Donald J. Trump 's head during an assassination attempt at a campaign rally . <p> Doug Mills/The New York Times <p> " I started sending those photos to my editor . She looked through them and said : ' You wo n't believe this . I think you actually captured the bullet flying behind his head . ' I got chills . I 've talked to Trump about it a number of times . He said it 's a picture he 's looked at quite often since then . It was an incredibly surreal moment . " -- Doug Mills <p> Butler , Pa. , July 13 With a bloodied face and ear , Donald J. Trump pumped his fist in a defiant gesture to the crowd as he was escorted offstage by Secret Service agents after the attempt on his life . <p> Doug Mills/The New York Times <p> " I heard the loud pops . I saw him grab his ear and go down , but I did n't know how serious it was . All of a sudden he started to stand up . I was shocked , and happy to see he was alive . And then he put his fist up and pumped it -- ' Fight , fight , fight . ' That was his act of defiance . " -- Doug Mills <p> Milwaukee , July 16 Donald J. Trump , a large bandage covering his right ear , was greeted with cheers and thunderous applause at the Republican National Convention , just days after the assassination attempt . <p> Haiyun Jiang for The New York Times <p> " He was raising up his fist in what was like a coronation for him . It happened every single night . It felt like he was the king in a castle looking over his subjects . He showed up for four nights in a row , and every time people were cheering and chanting ' U.S.A. ' and chanting his name . " -- Haiyun Jiang <p> Al-Mawasi , Gaza , July 13 A Palestinian woman and her children mourning her husband , who was killed in an Israeli airstrike . Gaza health officials said at least 90 people were killed and 300 wounded in the attack . <p> Mohammed Saber/EPA , via Shutterstock <p> Butte County , Calif. , July 27 A helicopter dropped water on the Park fire , which , within days , consumed hundreds of thousands of acres . It became the fourth largest wildfire in California history . <p> Daniel Dreifuss for The New York Times <p> Teahupo ? o , Tahiti , July 29 The Brazilian surfer Gabriel Medina celebrating his ride at the Paris Games , for which he earned the highest single wave score in Olympics history with a 9.90 and advanced to the men 's quarterfinal . <p> Jerome Brouillet/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images <p> " I knew , like other surf photographers , that Gabriel loves Teahupo'o and usually celebrates at the end of big wave rides . And that 's what he did . The tricky part of the shot was that when he was about to jump out of the wave , I was totally blind because the wave passed behind the boat at this moment . " -- Jerome Brouillet <p> Paris , July 30 Simone Biles and Sunisa Lee carrying the American flag after the women 's gymnastics team won Olympic gold . It was a comeback for Biles , who withdrew from the Tokyo Games in 2021 because of a mental block . <p> James Hill for The New York Times <h> August <p> Paris , Aug. 9 At the Paris Olympics , iconic landmarks provided a backdrop for many events . Switzerland 's win over Australia for the bronze in women 's beach volleyball played out at the foot of the Eiffel Tower . <p> Daniel Berehulak/The New York Times <p> " I 'd seen that view and seen incredible sunsets come and go . I got there and realized I had the wrong lens ; it was n't wide enough . So I raced back to the hotel and grabbed the lens I should have grabbed in the first place . Luckily , I got back up there and the sky still had color . It all fell into place . " -- Daniel Berehulak <p> Paris , Aug. 6 Team China performing in artistic swimming , one of the flashiest sports at the Olympics . Theatricality and impression are part of the score , but the need to exude constant beaming delight is a challenging element . <p> James Hill for The New York Times <p> Paris , Aug. 9 Breaking announced itself as an Olympic sport this year , making a memorable debut powered by a backbeat . Ami Yuasa of Japan , known as B-Girl Ami , won the sport 's first gold medal . <p> Chang W. Lee/The New York Times <p> Brooklyn , Aug. 16 The actress Margaret Qualley , who this year starred in " The Substance , " a body-horror bloodbath about fame and self-hatred . " I think everyone involved had to enter the eye of the storm , " Qualley said of making the film . <p> Thea Traff for The New York Times <p> " We wanted to convey the drama and intensity of the movie , and we also knew that Margaret used to dance . I asked her to move in a way that was reminiscent of the dance she used to do . It was very subtle movement . There was this moment where the light perfectly framed her eyes that felt so moody and perfect . " -- Thea Traff <p> Chicago , Aug. 22 Vice President Kamala Harris accepted her party 's nomination four weeks after President Biden dropped out of the race , capping a Democratic convention unlike any in modern history . Her great-niece , Amara Ajagu , watched her from below . <p> Todd Heisler/The New York Times <p> " These are scripted events , but there are moments of authenticity to be found within that . I try not to overthink these situations and overdo it with symbolism . My editor asked me to look for any reaction from the family , but I had fairly low expectations since I was behind them and would n't see their faces . I was pleasantly surprised when I saw this connection . " -- Todd Heisler <p> Kavumu , Democratic Republic of Congo , Aug. 24 Nathalie Minani , 7 , being treated for mpox at a remote hospital overwhelmed with patients . The disease spread across the country and beyond , prompting the World Health Organization to declare a global health emergency . <p> Arlette Bashizi for The New York Times <p> Joint Base Andrews in Maryland , Aug. 1 Evan Gershkovich , a reporter for the Wall Street Journal , was freed in a prisoner swap after 16 months in a Russian prison on what were widely seen as fabricated charges of espionage . <p> Haiyun Jiang for The New York Times <h> September <p> Swannanoa , N.C. , Sept. 27 Two trailers and several cars blocked a road after Hurricane Helene swept through , causing catastrophic flooding . The storm was among the deadliest in U.S. history , killing more than 200 people . <p> Mike Belleme for The New York Times <p> " Overnight , the hurricane came through , and I live in that neighborhood . I did n't go out with shooting in mind ; I went out with checking on my neighbors in mind . There was a trailer that this guy named Danny had , and it had washed up and landed right in the middle of the road . Even by foot you could n't get around it . " -- Mike Belleme <p> Ra'anana , Israel , Sept. 1 Nira Sarusi at the funeral of her son , Almog Sarusi , one of six hostages whose bodies were found in Gaza by the Israeli Army . The discovery set off a fresh wave of grief and anger in Israel . <p> Avishag Shaar-Yashuv for The New York Times <p> " That was a really hard day . Everyone was broken here in Israel . The moment I saw the mother screaming and the father alongside her was really hard . I can actually feel the pain still . " -- Avishag Shaar-Yashuv <p> Manhattan , Sept. 11 Inside the Roosevelt Hotel , which became a symbol of New York 's flagging aspirations and mounting struggles to respond with open arms to an influx of migrants . City officials called it the " new Ellis Island . " <p> Todd Heisler/The New York Times <p> " At night I would always see someone looking out the windows , and I thought to myself , I want to know what that experience is like inside . The boy was looking out the window , just kind of fascinated with this landscape of this wall of windows across the way and the Manhattan streets . I was finally able to see that perspective . " -- Todd Heisler <p> Dekle Beach , Fla. , Sept. 26 The wreckage of houses piled up along the shoreline southeast of Tallahassee . Dozens of homes in the small community were decimated when Hurricane Helene passed through . <p> Paul Ratje for The New York Times <p> Manhattan , Sept. 27 Mayor Eric Adams outside the federal courthouse in Lower Manhattan after pleading not guilty to bribery and fraud charges . He asked New Yorkers to give him a chance to defend himself . <p> Todd Heisler/The New York Times <p> Mount Vernon , N.Y. , Sept. 26 Alexander Reben , OpenAI 's first artist in residence , used a 16-foot robot outfitted with a cutting tool to create an alienlike sculpture -- designed by artificial intelligence -- from Italian marble . <p> Amir Hamja for The New York Times <p> Port-au-Prince , Haiti , Sept. 22 Families displaced by gang violence took shelter at a converted school . More than 700,000 people who fled their homes after gang attacks on their communities were still unable to return . <p> Adriana Zehbrauskas for The New York Times <p> " Were these children ever going back to school ? For them to go back to school they will have to leave here , and they have nowhere else to go . Their homes have been burned and taken over by gangs . They are going through all this , but they play . They were jumping rope , and others were playing soccer with a tiny pen cap . " -- Adriana Zehbrauskas <p> Beirut , Lebanon , Sept. 19 Hezbollah supporters mourning the deaths of two people killed when pagers and walkie-talkies used by the militant group exploded in waves across the country on two successive days . <p> Diego Ibarra Sanchez for The New York Times <p> Beirut , Lebanon , Sept. 29 Families sought refuge at Ramlet Al Baida beach after fleeing Israeli airstrikes on the city 's southern suburbs . Years of crises left the country in no shape to withstand a sharply escalating conflict . <p> Diego Ibarra Sanchez for The New York Times <p> " In these kinds of moments , you realize you 're trying to find scenes to illustrate the story , but at the same time we 're not vultures . If we want to humanize or illustrate the consequences , we need to do it with respect . I wanted to portray how war affects the innocents in a way that is universal all over the world . " -- Diego Ibarra Sanchez <p> London , Sept. 14 The outfits on and off the runway at London Fashion Week -- which was celebrating its 40th anniversary -- felt more mature than usual . Some enchanting attire even conjured the wardrobe of Cinderella . <p> Simbarashe Cha/The New York Times <h> October <p> Juneau , Wis. , Oct. 6 Former President Donald J. Trump at a rally at Dodge County Airport , one of the many campaign stops where he made his closing argument , a slurry of polarizing disinformation and unfounded personal attacks on his opponent in the presidential race , Kamala Harris . <p> Jamie Kelter Davis for The New York Times <p> " I was trying to figure out where to be to get an interesting photo . As soon as he 's onstage , it 's a performance . But that moment going down the stairs , you 're vulnerable , and the silhouette shows that . It was a real moment . That 's a moment that they are not behind the seal and the microphone . " -- Jamie Kelter Davis <p> Washington , Oct. 29 Vice President Kamala Harris reviewing her last major speech of the presidential campaign . Later in the day , she delivered it at the Ellipse , the park where Donald Trump encouraged supporters to march on the Capitol on Jan. 6 , 2021 . <p> Erin Schaff/The New York Times <p> " I 'm most interested in seeing who politicians are when they 're not onstage performing for the public . And one thing is that she plays a big role in writing and editing her speeches , and she will go line by line on a speech , reworking it with staff , debating the meaning of a single word , and the grammar , and what her voice is. " -- Erin Schaff <p> Manhattan , Oct. 24 A young New York Liberty fan celebrated the team 's first-ever championship at a ticker-tape parade along the Canyon of Heroes , the third time such an honor has been bestowed upon a women 's sports team in New York . <p> Hiroko Masuike/The New York Times <p> " These kids were at the very beginning of the parade . Everybody was screaming , but those three girls especially were crazy screaming to each player that was coming . I thought , This is the moment I have to capture . These kids ' eyes were shining ; I could see some hope or dreams in them . " -- Hiroko Masuike <p> Christchurch , New Zealand , Oct. 12 Sara Saumanaia , 15 , in an area near her home that became uninhabitable after an earthquake in 2011 . For teenagers around the world , the global-warming crisis is upending their adolescence -- and will define their future . <p> Tatsiana Chypsanava for The New York Times <p> " Behind these trees is a bike ramp where Sara goes with her siblings . We found this little island in the middle of a flooded area , and I asked her to sit down in a dry spot . It looks a little like her world is upside down . I wanted to show that in this area you ca n't really run from climate change . " -- Tatsiana Chypsanava <p> Beirut , Lebanon , Oct. 11 The aftermath in the Ras el-Nabaa neighborhood after Israeli airstrikes killed at least 22 people and wounded over 100 . The strikes spread fear that nowhere was safe from Israel 's military onslaught against Hezbollah . <p> David Guttenfelder for The New York Times <p> " The power of the Israeli bombardment is hard to grasp without seeing it with your own eyes . It brings down entire buildings , and city blocks are reduced to a smoldering pile of stones . They were digging to find victims all day and all night ; when they pulled the cranes out , people were able to go and retrieve whatever they could find . " -- David Guttenfelder <p> From the project " Out of Gaza " Israel 's invasion and bombardment of Gaza left many with life-changing injuries . Some made it out for treatment . They included , clockwise from top left : Mahmoud Ajjour , 9 , who lost both hands ; Ruba Abu Jibba , 19 , who lost her eye ; and Nusaiba Kleib , 9 , whose leg was amputated . <p> Samar Abu Elouf for The New York Times <p> " When I started photographing the story , I could not imagine the amount of sadness I would share with my subjects . I felt very heavy . I cried a lot and felt all the pain they went through . No one in the world deserves to go through what they did . I cry every time I remember all of the horrors they endured . " -- Samar Abu Elouf <p> " They wanted to share who Aiden really was as a person because all of the sentiment was antithetical to what their family believes , and also to the compassion and kindness their son had when he was alive . This is a photo of them in his room holding his baby blanket , which he had still used , and which still smelled like him . " -- Erin Schaff <p> Allentown , Pa. , Oct. 3 Members of the Valley Elite All Stars , a cheerleading team aiming to make it to Cheerleading Worlds . Competitive cheer is popular yet dangerous , and dominated by a single company : Varsity Spirit . <p> Dina Litovsky for The New York Times <p> " I was there for the team 's practice , and it was one of the hardest shifts I 've ever had . It was complete pandemonium . They were jumping , somersaulting and doing flips , and I was just trying to get out of the way and not get kicked in the head . They were giving me their hardest material . They are very serious athletes . " -- Dina Litovsky <p> Lakeland , Fla. , Oct. 10 Donna Clark , 64 , was rescued from floodwaters with her dog , Jack , after Hurricane Milton made landfall on Florida 's western coast , just two weeks after Hurricane Helene had devastated the area . <p> Nicole Craine for The New York Times <p> " She had her eyes closed , dog in her hand , trash bag filled with her items and a carrier with the cat inside . She was so grateful she had gotten out of there , and so terrified . I had mixed feelings about taking that photo . I knew I was going to be headed home and she was n't sure where she was going . " -- Nicole Craine <p> Stonecrest , Ga. , Oct. 20 Congregants praying over Vice President Kamala Harris at New Birth Missionary Baptist Church , an Atlanta-area megachurch that has hosted numerous politicians . Ms. Harris visited several churches in the final weeks of the election campaign . <p> Erin Schaff/The New York Times <p> " There was a moment at the worship service when leaders said , ' Now we 're going to pray for the vice president , ' and I was on a balcony far away , holding a camera over my head , just hoping I was capturing the moment . What I like about that image is the visualization of people literally having her back . " -- Erin Schaff <h> November <p> West Palm Beach , Fla. , Nov. 5 Waiting for election results at a Trump watch party at the Palm Beach Convention Center . They came faster than expected , with former President Donald J. Trump declared the winner early the next morning . <p> Mark Peterson for The New York Times <p> " It was before people knew Trump was going to win . It was shortly after they let a lot of the public in . They could have been waiting hours in line . They kept filing in and filling up the chairs until all of them were full . They were all dressed so alike . I took five frames and that was that . " -- Mark Peterson <p> Philadelphia , Nov. 4 Vice President Kamala Harris made her final pitch to voters from the museum steps made famous by the movie " Rocky , " calling it " a tribute to those who start as the underdog and climb to victory . " <p> Erin Schaff/The New York Times <p> " The energy was high , and she had really hit her stride in terms of what her character was as the lead face of the Democratic Party . One of the things she had incorporated in the final few days was raising up her fist at the end . There was a lot of energy , and a lot of tension and exhaustion . " -- Erin Schaff <p> West Memphis , Ark. , Nov. 5 A sticker was given to a voter outside a polling place at Lehr Arena on Election Day . Donald J. Trump won Arkansas 's six electoral votes with 64.2 percent of the vote . <p> Brad J. Vest for The New York Times <p> " Dr. Alfreda Robinson was running for Ward 1 , a local government position , and she was out there campaigning and noticed they were n't handing out stickers inside polling places . So she started to print out her own ' I Voted ' stickers to hand out . Everybody who votes loves a good sticker afterward. " -- Brad J. Vest <p> Plains Township , Pa. , Nov. 6 Members of the group Bikers for Trump gathered to celebrate at D 's Diner . When approached by a Harris voter , Dave Ragan , an Army veteran , stood up and told him : " We changed the world ! " <p> Philip Montgomery for The New York Times <p> " The man congratulated them and in a sarcastic tone remarked that he ' hoped it all worked out . ' My decades of chronicling the American experience have been marked by frequent encounters with deep societal divisions , often manifesting at protests or organized gatherings . This moment felt unique in that it unfolded spontaneously in a mundane public place as people went about their lives . " -- Philip Montgomery <p> Boston , Nov. 16 Anthony Kunz of Buffalo paused to pray before he and dozens of other men marched against abortion . Counterprotesters clashed with the demonstrators as they made their way through the city . <p> Sophie Park for The New York Times <p> Greenwood Lake , N.Y. , Nov. 10 The Jennings Creek wildfire raged along a mountainous border between New York and New Jersey . It burned for 14 days across 5,300 acres . <p> Dakota Santiago for The New York Times <h> December <p> Damascus , Syria , Dec. 9 Thousands of people celebrated in Umayyad Square , in the center of the capital , after rebels ended Bashar al-Assad 's long and brutal reign and took control of the country . <p> Daniel Berehulak/The New York Times <p> " Civilians poured into the streets , weeping in disbelief and celebrating the end of al-Assad 's brutal reign . People screamed curses at the Assad family -- words that would once have been a death sentence to utter out loud -- as rebels fired celebratory gunfire into the air . Everyone there reveled in the fall of the regime and their newfound , if uncertain , sense of freedom . " -- Daniel Berehulak <p> Damascus , Syria , Dec. 10 After the overthrow of President Bashar al-Assad 's regime , relatives looked for lost loved ones in a hospital mortuary , where bodies discovered at a notorious prison had been taken . For over a decade , tens of thousands of people would disappear without explanation . <p> Daniel Berehulak/The New York Times <p> Damascus , Syria , Dec. 12 The neighborhood of Jobar six years after it was destroyed by President Bashar al-Assad 's regime in an operation to drive out rebels . The rebel group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham toppled the Assad regime on Dec. 8 . <p> Nicole Tung for The New York Times <p> Seoul , Dec. 7 Protesters took to the streets outside the National Assembly as lawmakers voted on whether to impeach President Yoon Suk Yeol after he briefly imposed martial law . The vote failed to meet the required two-thirds threshold . <p> Chang W. Lee/The New York Times <p> Hollidaysburg , Pa. , Dec. 9 Luigi Mangione , the 26-year-old suspect charged with murder in the fatal shooting of Brian Thompson , the chief executive of UnitedHealthcare , being taken into the Blair County courthouse to be arraigned . <p> Rachel Wisniewski for the New York Times <p> Paris , Dec. 6 Five years after a fire devoured its roof and nearly collapsed its walls , Notre-Dame Cathedral reopened with the clanging of its centuries-old bell . It was an emotional rebirth for one of the world 's most recognized monuments . <p> Dmitry Kostyukov for The New York Times <p> " This was during rehearsal so they were testing the lighting , and I had a chance to shoot it several times . This picture was taken from a bridge where tourists go . I wanted to take this iconic view of how people see it . A lot of Parisians are still so much in love with their city . They never tire of it . " -- Dmitry Kostyukov 
@@119026221 <p> " Ireland is one of the most anti-Zionist countries in the Western world , " Ireland 's Chief Rabbi Yoni Wieder told The Jerusalem Post 's Editor-in-Chief Zvika Klein on The Jerusalem Post Podcast in May . <p> " It really plays out on so many levels of society , " he explained . " In the government , the opposition parties , the media , schools , and universities . And while we 're very grateful there has n't been a lot of violence for the most part -- definitely compared to what we 've seen in other countries -- there have been extremely strong anti-Zionist sentiments , and the criticism of Israel is disproportionate to what we see in other countries . " <p> The World Jewish Congress says , based on 2023 figures , that there are some 2,700 Jews living in Ireland , some of them Israelis . It was in May that Israel recalled its ambassador in Dublin , Dana Erlich , after Ireland joined Spain and Norway in unilaterally recognizing a Palestinian state . In November , the Irish parliament passed a nonbinding motion declaring that " genocide is being perpetrated before our eyes by Israel in Gaza . " The final straw came last week when Ireland announced its support for the South African lawsuit against Israel at the International Court of Justice in The Hague , accusing Israel of genocide against the Palestinians . <p> Foreign Minister Gideon Sa'ar decided to take strong action , and on Sunday he announced the closure of the embassy due to the " extreme anti-Israel policy of the Irish government . " He said : " The antisemitic actions and rhetoric that Ireland is taking against Israel are based on delegitimization and demonization of the Jewish state and on double standards . " ( Illustrative ) Foreign Minister Gideon Sa'ar over a back drop of an Irish and Palestinian flag . ( credit : Canva , Clodagh Kilcoyn/Reuters , OLIVIER FITOUSSI/FLASH90 ) <p> Not everyone agreed with the decision . Opposition leader Yair Lapid slammed Sa'ar , accusing him of taking the wrong approach . " The decision ... is a victory for antisemitism and anti-Israel organizations , " Lapid wrote on X. " The way to deal with criticism is not to run away but to stay and fight . " <p> Irish Prime Minister Simon Harris called Israel 's decision " deeply regrettable . " He wrote on X : " I utterly reject the assertion that Ireland is anti-Israel . Ireland is pro-peace , pro-human rights and pro-international law . " For his part , Irish Foreign Minister Miche ? l Martin said the two countries would continue to maintain diplomatic relations and there were no plans to close Ireland 's embassy in Israel . <p> Maurice Cohen , chair of the Jewish Representative Council of Ireland , said he opposed the embassy closure . " It is regrettable that circumstances have led the Israeli government to believe that closing the embassy in Dublin is the best course of action , " Cohen said . " It will have a deeply personal impact on many Irish citizens with Israeli roots , including members of our own community . It is crucial that both governments recognize the broader implications of their decisions , not just for bilateral relations but for the people they affect directly . " <p> Rabbi Wieder said the decision to close the embassy " will be a blow for Israeli individuals and families living in Ireland , many of whom have contributed tremendously to the Jewish community in Ireland . " <p> Speaking to Irish broadcaster RT ? , Ambassador Erlich said closing the embassy had been a " tough decision . " Responding to concerns from the Jewish and Israeli communities in Ireland about the decision , she said : " We direct those concerns to the Irish government , the government that needs to make sure that they are safe , that there is a future for the Jewish community in Ireland . These assurances need to be made . " <p> Rabbi Yitzhak HaLevi Herzog , the father of president Chaim Herzog and grandfather of President Isaac Herzog , served as Ireland 's first chief rabbi , strongly supporting Catholic Ireland 's struggle for independence while condemning all forms of discrimination against members of other faiths , before he made aliyah and became Ashkenazi chief rabbi of Israel . <p> In his memory , we echo Maurice Cohen 's call on both the Irish and Israeli governments " to seek pathways to rebuild trust and to ensure that avenues for diplomatic engagement remain open . Ireland has the potential to play a constructive role on the global stage , and it is our hope that this potential will be directed toward fostering understanding and reconciliation . " 
@@119026222 <h> Zionism , at its best , synthesizes Jewish values with liberal democracy , juggling universalism and particularism . The balance resonates with the West 's silenced majority . <p> It 's mid-December , so we 're drowning in one-liners defining 2024 . Donald Trump is Time magazine 's " Person of the Year , " predictably . A Gazan woman embracing her dead niece is World Press 's " Photo of the Year , " predictably . And Taylor Swift won the " Album of the Year " Grammy -- again -- and again predictably . I propose , unpredictably , designating Zionism the " Ideology of the Year . " <p> Meanwhile , the yelping for Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to stop short in Gaza and cease firing crescendoed . Jews worldwide endured surges of Jew hatred . And the " un-Jews " -- the rabbis , Jewish studies professors , and other anti-Zionists on the Jewish dole -- dominated the headlines . Denouncing " the mass murder in Gaza , " this marginal minority wanted America to deprive Israel of weapons . <p> One year later -- despite freshly dug graves and unfreed hostages -- we 're on a roll . <h> How Israel vindicated Zionism <p> Israel 's mass doggedness saved Israel while strengthening the free world . Zionists on campus and worldwide found their footing . The Zionist ethos of self-defense , the Zionist refusal to surrender , and sheer Zionist grit vindicated the Zionist movement , while offering an ideological model other democracies should appreciate . Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu arrives at the Tel Aviv District Court . December 16 , 2024. ( credit : YOSSI ZELIGER ) <p> Few Western leaders seem to understand what Netanyahu , the IDF , and Israel 's extraordinary soldiers and citizens do . War is a pressure cooker . You succeed by enduring the pressure while crushing your enemies until they break . The constant time-outs the world demanded for Hamas would have recreated the pre-October 7 standoff of " mowing the lawn " and considering Hamas " pragmatic " -- with two massive deficits added . The 1,200-plus killed by Hamas would have died in vain -- with tens of thousands more Israelis easily targeted by Hamas , Hezbollah , and Iran . And the deterrence Israel lost following that monstrous Simchat Torah misfire would still be gone . <p> Today , although Israelis paid a shattering price by being attacked , the balance of terror Israel needs to restrain its enemies has been restored , in Israel 's favor . Hezbollah 's and Syria 's collapse , and Iran 's whimpers , demonstrate what a formidable , determined , unrelenting democracy can do to swaggering bullies . <p> We vindicated the Zionist refusal to surrender because , in an age of instant self-gratification and Israel-bashing , it was tempting to quit too early . Our greatest benefactors , the Americans , insisted . Many close friends , Jewish and non-Jewish , hassled us . Some citizens demanded it . The pressure was intense . But most reservists continued to put politics on mute , kiss their families goodbye , abandon their bosses -- or employees -- and suspend their everyday dreams temporarily , whenever they were called . We 're still burying some of those holy warriors , yet most soldier on , understanding that this is our chance " la'asot seder , " to restore order . <p> In Gaza and Lebanon , in the air , on the sea , in the tunnels , Israel 's soldiers were steely and nimble . The home front was equally resilient , with mass volunteering , co-workers accepting extra burdens to jump-start Israel 's war-torn economy , teenagers who keep enlisting , and spouses , children , and parents who coped with missing loved ones -- sometimes temporarily as they fought , and sometimes , alas , forevermore . <p> At the risk of being triumphalist , I keep noticing that Western drift further spotlights Israel 's wartime mix of determination and exhilaration . We know what 's worth living for -- and dying for . American headlines describe a sick , sexy , rich-kid killer charming the " woke " set 's laptop revolutionaries , and sexual harassers snaring government appointments . Meanwhile , mass loneliness , mental-health distress , and alienation spread , Left and Right , especially among youngsters , as too many teachers trash American values , coddle students , then watch them lash out against each other , their parents , and " the system . " <p> Canada suffers under a child king -- prime minister -- who boasts that " there is no core identity , no mainstream in Canada " and stays silent as his " first post-national state " beats up Jews , stagnates economically , and appears " broken . " Similarly , British newspapers lament " decay , " a " forlorn and frustrated public mood , " and " the death knell of optimism . " <p> Zionism , at its best , synthesizes Jewish values with liberal democracy , juggling universalism and particularism . The balance resonates with the West 's silenced majority -- neither so woke as to be soullessly cosmopolitan nor so " supremacist " as to be tyrannically chauvinistic . <p> Zionist left-wingers serve in the military , value family , observe traditions in some way , and reject simplistic " oppressed-oppressor " paradigms . Zionism 's color-blind right-wingers do n't peek into their neighbors ' bedrooms and do n't knock others down to build up Jewish pride . Together , they form a robust middle and a buoyant society , wherein Left and Right defend Israel together . <p> While unleashing the collective fist when necessary , they live life with a smile on their collective face . That 's how Israel 's younger generation outshines its legendary founders , from David Ben-Gurion to Menachem Begin . Unlike those history-making , crusty , often sour-faced pioneers , today 's Israelis temper heroic toughness with a refreshing sense of humor . <p> With their jolly fortitude , they redeemed Israel and improved the world in 2024 , vindicating our old-new ethos . <p> The writer , a senior fellow in Zionist thought at the Jewish People Policy Institute , is an American presidential historian . His latest book , To Resist the Academic Intifada : Letters to My Students on Defending the Zionist Dream , was just published . 
@@119026226 <h> Shamriz was killed when he and two other hostages , Yotam Chaim and Samer Talalka , escaped their captors and were shot by the IDF . <p> The High Court pressed the state on Wednesday to answer the family of Alon Shamriz , a slain hostage , on whether he will be recognized as a fallen soldier , the family said . <p> The state had requested an extension in its answer until the end of January due to the change in defense ministers and the security situation , according to the family . <p> Shamriz was killed when he and two other hostages , Yotam Chaim and Samer Talalka , escaped their captors and were mistakenly shot by IDF forces . The three were shot as they exited a building in Gaza and were waving a white flag while approaching IDF soldiers and shouting in Hebrew . <p> The family submitted a request in December 2023 that Shamriz be recognized as a fallen soldier , which was denied by the IDF . <p> The family explained the request in December , saying that the circumstances surrounding the death were " tragic and extreme " and that " under these circumstances , it is appropriate that the slain hostages be recognized as they were : Heroes and warriors who fell in battle ; martyrs of the IDF . " <p> The family has also said that Shamriz was called up for reserve duty on October 7 , further strengthening the argument that he should be recognized as a fallen IDF soldier.High Court of Justice May 3 , 2020 ( credit : COURTESY HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE ) <h> Feeling encouraged <p> " The judges ' clear remarks to the state during the discussion provide a sense of encouragement to the family -- both regarding the need to recognize Alon as a fallen IDF soldier under the painful and exceptional circumstances , and finally to fully and properly regulate the state 's handling of such difficult cases , " the family 's lawyer said on Wednesday . <p> " We are leaving the hearing encouraged , " said Yonatan Shamriz , Alon 's brother . " I believe our arguments were heard , and I feel we received a lot of support . We 're leaving this discussion with a great deal of optimism , even though no decision was made here , and we will continue our just struggle . " <p> Shamriz 's brother Yonatan spoke at a memorial for his brother earlier this month , saying that missing his brother has become harder as time goes by . 
@@119026237 <h> The ANC , once the world 's symbol of resistance against oppression , now supports a political propaganda narrative that views Israel as an apartheid , colonial state . <p> By CHARLES ASHER SMALL DECEMBER 18 , 2024 13:38 <p> South African Ambassador to the Netherlands Vusimuzi Madonsela uses a phone at the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) , during a ruling on South Africa 's request to order a halt to Israel 's Rafah offensive in Gaza as part of a larger case brought before the Hague-based court by South Africa accusin ( photo credit : JOHANNA GERON/REUTERS ) <p> Shortly after the October 7 Hamas attack on Israel , South Africa made headlines by escalating its legal battle against Israel at the International Court of Justice . Amid this legal offensive , another disturbing element began to unfold . The ANC African National Congress political party , mired in financial difficulties , suddenly found itself with renewed resources , and a massive financial debt mysteriously was paid off . As the ANC 's financial outlook improved , some began to question whether its growing ties with extremist governments could be a factor . <p> The ANC has been perceived as a beacon of justice in the struggle against apartheid , with the legendary icons Nelson Mandela , Walter Sisulu , Oliver Tamboo , and other giants who sacrificed much for human rights and justice in the face of a brutal regime that was founded on racism that permeated all aspects of society . <p> I recall my own journey into the anti-apartheid movement , a commitment that began in 1986 as a young political science student at McGill University . In a political science course on South African society , I encountered a reality that influenced my life . Apartheid was not a closed chapter of history ; it was a present , brutal system enforcing racial segregation and oppression , a hierarchy sustained by European colonialism and , disturbingly , Nazi-inspired ideologies . <p> ANC , Jewish leaders 370 ( credit : Courtesy ) <h> The ANC 's vision <p> As a young Jewish student , it was nearly unthinkable to me that such doctrines , which had fueled the atrocities of the Holocaust , could still hold sway . I had assumed , perhaps naively , that the world had firmly rejected these ideals and that the horrific experience of my grandparents ' generation with the Holocaust was relegated to the dustbin of history . Learning of apartheid 's persistence was a call to action out of a deep sense of morality and ethics , foundational elements of my Jewish learning and heritage . I joined the international anti-apartheid movement , after immersing myself in the history of South Africa 's struggle for justice and aligning myself with its central figures and organizations , none more prominent than the ANC . The ANC 's vision -- a democratic , inclusive South Africa where all would be equal citizens , regardless of race , gender , and religion -- was inspiring . <p> Through my involvement , I worked and learned from individuals like Prof. Chengiah Rogers Ragaven , a South African activist forced into exile due to his work with the ANC . In 1987 , he appointed me chairperson of the ANC Solidarity Committee of Canada , enabling me to work with student and labor groups to government and international bodies . My commitment led me to South Africa itself , where I bore witness to the country 's journey from apartheid to democracy . In cities , townships , and squatter camps , I met activists and ordinary citizens who worked tirelessly for a free , democratic South Africa . <p> Tragically , today the ANC has aligned itself with oppressive regimes and ideologies that contradict the very values it once embodied . The Institute for the Study of Global Antisemitism and Policy 's latest report sheds light on this shift , revealing the ANC 's deep alliances with Hamas , Iran , and Qatar . These are not just diplomatic gestures ; these relationships have altered the ANC 's fundamental priorities , transforming South Africa into an emerging hub for terror financing . Through two memorandums with Hamas -- in 2015 and 2018 -- and multiple high-level meetings , the ANC has fortified its relationship with an organization known for acts of terrorism and its anti-democratic , sexist , and antisemitic ideology . Under the guise of humanitarian work , South African organizations have allegedly funneled support to Hamas , embedding the ANC in the global network of terror financing . <p> In addition , the ANC 's partnerships with Iran and Qatar , the overseers of its proxy Hamas , have enabled these regimes to exert influence within South Africa , extending into its economic and political fabric . South Africa 's facilitation of Iran 's entry into the BRICS alliance granted Iran new political leverage . Qatar , through significant investments in South Africa 's energy sector , has only deepened its foothold . As the ISGAP report shows , these relationships are part of a broader strategy that risks destabilizing South Africa and compromising international security . <p> The irony is profound and tragic . The ANC , once the world 's symbol of resistance against oppression , now supports a political propaganda narrative that views Israel as an apartheid , colonial state , while aligning with regimes that promote hate and extremism . For those of us who supported the ANC 's original cause , the alliance with Iran , Qatar , and Hamas is a bitter betrayal of the principles we once struggled for . <p> The ANC 's relationship with terror-linked states and their military proxies demands scrutiny . By bringing a case against Israel to The Hague and enabling financial networks that funnel resources to organizations like Hamas , the ANC has positioned South Africa as a link in the global web of terror financing . When the ANC accuses Israel of being an apartheid state , like Iran , Hamas , and other brutal terror-supporting entities and states , it calls for the elimination of the existence of Israel . What is even more pathetic is that the ANC is doing this in the aftermath of the October 7 pogrom , the most brutal massacre of Jews since the Holocaust , in which the ideology and policies of Hamas were transparent for all to witness with clarity . For the ANC leadership to align itself with Hamas especially now , for money , is repugnant and an insult to the people of South Africa . <p> The international community can no longer ignore South Africa 's troubling trajectory . The ANC 's shift marks a critical turning point . It is time for the world to re-evaluate South Africa 's global role and hold the ANC to the standards of justice and human rights that once defined its struggle . ? 
@@119033839 <p> A Jewish professor has left the university , citing Columbia 's embrace of Hamas apologists . <p> Columbia University , a hotbed of anti-Semitism and leftist extremism , will have a professor who celebrated the Oct. 7 , 2023 , Hamas terrorist attacks teach a course on Zionism in the new year . <p> Joseph Massad is a professor of modern Arab politics at Columbia University who has a special interest in " theories of nationalism , sexuality , race , and religion " and regularly contributes to the Middle East Eye , a radical blog apparently owned by a former official for both Al Jazeera in Qatar and the Hamas-affiliated al-Quds TV , Jamal Bessasso . Massad has also long contributed to the Electronic Intifada , a pro-Palestinian propaganda website . <p> On Oct. 8 , 2023 -- one day after Hamas terrorists massacred over 1,100 Israelis -- Massad penned an article titled " Just another battle or the Palestinian war of liberation ? " wherein he expressed amazement and apparent delight at the so-called " victories of the resistance . " <p> " What can motorized paragliders do in the face of one of the most formidable militaries in the world ? Apparently much in the hands of an innovative Palestinian resistance , which early on Saturday morning launched a surprise attack on Israel by air , land , and sea , " wrote Massad . " Indeed , as stunning videos show , these paragliders have become the air force of the Palestinian resistance . " <p> In addition to suggesting the terrorist attacks were provoked , Massad spoke highly of the terrorists ' " success . " <p> " Perhaps the major achievement of the resistance in the temporary takeover of these settler-colonies is the death blow to any confidence that Israeli colonists had in their military and its ability to protect them , " continued the Columbia professor . " In the interest of safeguarding their lives and their children 's future , the colonists ' flight from these settlements may prove to be a permanent exodus . They may have finally realized that living on land stolen from another people will never make them safe . " <p> At one stage in the article , Massad insinuated that the victims were " cruel colonizers " and stated , " The sight of the Palestinian resistance fighters storming Israeli checkpoints separating Gaza from Israel was astounding . " <p> Whereas Massad described the terrorist attacks as " remarkable , " " stunning , " " striking , " and " astounding , " he referred to the Israeli response as " barbaric . " <p> According to the university 's directory of classes , Massad will teach a course on " the history of the Jewish Enlightenment ( Haskala ) in 19th century Europe and the development of Zionism through the current peace process between the state of Israel and the Arab states and the Palestinian national movement . " <p> The listing further notes that the Hamas apologist will also provide " a historical overview of the Zionist-Palestinian conflict to familiarize undergraduates with the background of the current situation . " <p> Nearly 50 students are already enrolled in the class , which is unsurprising granted the anti-Israel sentiment that abounds on campus . <p> Just last week , anti-Israel radicals marched around campus calling for a " free and liberated Palestine " and carrying banners that reportedly read , " Globalize the Intifada , " and " Within Our Lifetime . " <p> Blaze News previously reported that on the first anniversary of the Oct. 7 terrorist attacks , pro-Hamas protesters chanted , " Resistance is justified . " One video of the demonstration showed protesters chanting , " One solution ! Revolution ! " <p> The university has apparently been reluctant to do anything meaningful to curb pro-terrorist sentiment on campus . <p> The House Committee on Education and the Workforce complained in August that the university had failed to expel any of the students responsible for the volatile demonstrations and encampment takeover in April , where Hamas-endorsed radicals illegally camped outside Columbia University for more than a week , destroying property , repeating genocidal rhetoric and demanding the institution divest from Israel . <p> ' This would be akin to having a White Nationalist teach about the US Civil Rights movement . ' <p> In the face of such unchecked extremism , one Jewish student tried to force Columbia 's hand , filing a lawsuit accusing the university of allowing " a small group of fringe demonstrators to target Jewish students and faculty with harassment , hate speech , and violence for the sole reason that they are ( or appear to be ) Jewish . " Columbia agreed to increase safety measures in June as part of a settlement . <p> The Israeli Embassy to the U.S. responded to the news of Massad 's course , asking on X , " How many people has he already managed to indoctrinate ? " <p> Amid backlash over the course , the university issued a statement Tuesday , denouncing his controversial comments but indicating he would teach the course anyway . <p> " Professor Massad 's statements following the terrorist attack on October 7 created pain for many in our community and contributed to the deep controversy on our campus . We have consistently condemned any celebration or promotion of violence or terror , " said the statement . " We remain committed to principles of free expression and the open exchange of viewpoints and perspectives through opportunities for constructive dialogue and understanding throughout our campus community , and we seek to provide a learning environment and classrooms that promote intellectual inquiry and analytical thinking along with civility , tolerance , and respect . " <p> Columbia noted further that Massad 's course is one of three that students can take next semester on the subject of Zionism and the history of Israel . <p> This did not sit well with Lawrence Rosenblatt , an adjunct professor of international and public affairs at Columbia , who submitted his resignation , reported the Jerusalem Post . <p> " I hereby resign my position as a member of the Columbia University faculty , effective immediately . I do so in response to learning ( and seeing listed on the Columbia class registry ) that a course on Zionism and the State of Israel will be taught this coming semester by Joseph A. Massad , who has advocated for the destruction of the State of Israel and celebrated the October 7 attacks , " wrote Rosenblatt . " This would be akin to having a White Nationalist teach about the U.S. Civil Rights movement and the struggle for Black equality , or having a climate denier teach about the impact of global warming , or a misogynist teach about Feminism . " <p> Rosenblatt , who was reportedly not scheduled to teach in the spring semester , noted that Massad is entitled to his opinions and has a right to express his opinion , but " Columbia has a responsibility to teach objectively and fairly . " <p> " At best perhaps one could tolerate a class on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict co-taught from the many diverse Israeli and Palestinian perspectives , though not by someone who advocates for the eradication of a group of people . But that is not what is happening here , " continued Rosenblatt . " Columbia has lost not only its moral compass , but its intellectual one . " <p> Like Blaze News ? Bypass the censors , sign up for our newsletters , and get stories like this direct to your inbox . Sign up here ! 
@@119035527 <p> In late summer , Scott Jennings received a call from LA Times owner Patrick Soon-Shiong . Though Jennings had written dozens of columns for the newspaper over the years , the political commentator had never met Soon-Shiong , who mentioned having an appreciation for his approach , both as a commentator at CNN -- where he 's emerged as one of the network 's most prominent conservative voices -- and in print . " We struck up a little back-and-forth about what he was doing at the paper , " Jennings says , " which then ultimately led to him asking if I would be willing to join the editorial board . " <p> Having watched Jennings on CNN panels , Soon-Shiong tells me he was " impressed by his demeanor and by the way he would present his point of view , " which he says , " was always with respect . " Jennings 's commentary , in Soon-Shiong 's view , was " based on his analysis of factual information rather than speculative information . " Soon-Shiong recalls telling Jennings , " This is what we need more of in our newspaper . " <p> That private chat months back was a harbinger of the very public discussion playing out now around Soon-Shiong 's stewardship of the Times . A fairly low-key owner since acquiring the paper in 2018 , Soon-Shiong rattled the newsroom in late October by spiking an endorsement of Kamala Harris in the final weeks of the election ; reportedly demanded an editorial opposing an opinion piece critical of Donald Trump 's Cabinet picks , causing the editors to pull the story ; and has been outspoken about reshaping the editorial board . And he 's touted Jennings as the type of voice he 'd like more of at the paper , with the conservative commentator announcing on X in late November that he was accepting the owner 's invitation . <p> While the Times editorial-board role has lately gotten attention , it 's just the latest of Jennings 's media perches as a new Trump era gets underway . He already hosts a podcast , Flyover Country , in which Soon-Shiong recently appeared as a guest and mused about creating a " bias meter " for Times news and opinion coverage , while Jennings 's most high-profile gig remains as CNN 's go-to Trump defender , a role he played throughout the 2024 election cycle and into the transition . <p> " They 've given me a platform . No one ever tells me what to do or what not to do . I do n't have any scripts , and I 've never been censored , " Jennings , 47 , says of the network , where he 's been a contributor since 2017 . " There was a lot of political anxiety in the country about the election , but CNN never shied away from allowing that debate to unfold on the air , " he says , adding that programming like Abby Phillip 's NewsNight , which lends itself to pundit panels , have encouraged open and honest discussion . " Kudos to CNN for bringing a lot of different voices to the table this election , " Jennings praised . <p> Jennings 's pro-Trump commentary and at times contentious exchanges with CNN guests have led to his share of viral clips -- andcriticism . As Joe Biden hosted the president-elect at the White House , Jennings could be seen on CNN , gloating , " Did you ever think you 'd see literal Hitler in the Oval Office ? " referencing former Trump officials calling Trump a " fascist , " a narrative that took hold in the final stretch of the 2024 race . Jennings also drew criticism from analyst Karen Finney for his argument that Biden 's pardon of his son Hunter Biden should outrage Americans , " except the most partisan , brain-rotted people . " Finney called out Jennings for his rhetoric , saying , " That 's a little beyond the pale , even for you , Scott ! " <p> Just last week , Jennings snapped at Bakari Sellers for tapping his arm during a debate about Trump 's recent comments on his ability to lower grocery store prices . " Do n't touch me , " Jennings said . He also tussled with Audie Cornish during a discussion of the verdict in the Daniel Pennytrial , in which Jennings argued Penny was a victim . " He needs a clip for the internet , " Cornish said of Jennings . Mehdi Hasan , a former MSNBC host and now Zeteo editor in chief and CEO , wrote after the on-air spat that " Jennings may be one of the most unpleasant and disingenuous people on cable television -- and that 's saying a lot . " <p> Regardless of how tense things can get on air , Jennings tells me that he has " forged and formed a number of very close friendships " with his fellow commentators , specifically shouting out Van Jones and David Axelrod and saying that the cohort of CNN contributors has been " one of the greatest things about this job . " And Jones praised Jennings in an interview , saying he has " been our secret weapon in being a very strong conservative voice but one that our audience can understand and appreciate . " <p> " What 's in Scott is a deep respect for everyday people , a desire to not just agitate , but to educate the person he 's talking to about a different point of view , " Jones adds of his colleague . He also commended Jennings for continuing to show support for Israeli hostages being held by Hamas in Gaza by donning a yellow ribbon pin in every segment . <p> Axelrod , who Jennings says is his closest friend from his tenure at CNN thus far , praised the pundit for his ability to cut " issues in ways that are provocative and go viral , " adding that Jennings has " created these ' own the libs , ' kind of freewheeling moments , particularly on some of these panels . " <p> " I do n't always love what he does on TV , " says Axelrod , " but that 's not the whole of how I judge him . " <p> Before making the MAGA case on CNN , Jennings had taken a more traditional path through Republican politics , working for the likes of George W. Bush , Mitt Romney , and Mitch McConnell . During the 2016 race , Jennings referred to Trump in a column as " authoritarian " and called out his " vulgar " and " crude " behavior in another , examples that were pointed out in a Washington Postprofile of Jennings , which noted he " changed his tune after Trump took office . " <p> Jennings says Trump has altered the trajectory of the Republican Party by not adhering to " conservative orthodoxy " on the issues that have shaped the party 's platform . Sometimes on air , that manifests in a fierce defense of the president-elect . Jennings took it upon himself to back Trump 's controversial pick to lead the Department of Defense , former Fox News host Pete Hegseth . Jennings slammed the current Pentagon leadership , saying , " I 've had just about enough of the so-called insiders running the defense department . " <p> " Yeah , he 's on TV , but so are the rest of us , " he pointed out , pushing back against his colleagues ' assertion that Hegseth lacks government experience . <p> There was chatter about Jennings himself joining the Trump administration . He was rumored to be on a short list of candidates to serve as the White House press secretary , a job that ultimately went toKaroline Leavitt . Jennings tells me he was not " actively seeking " a role in the administration and was n't behind any campaign suggesting his candidacy . " I have no plans to join the Trump administration right now , " he added . <p> The press secretary gig would be one in which Jennings presumably could n't break with Trump -- something he says he 's willing to do on CNN . " There have been times when he has done things , said things , that I did n't agree with , and I 've not been shy about saying that on the air , " he says . Following Trump 's appearance earlier this year at the National Association of Black Journalists conference , where Trump questioned Vice President Kamala Harris 's race , Jennings did not mince words , saying that Trump did " crap the bed " during the interview : " The only question is whether he 's going to roll around in it or change the sheets . " Axelrod also believes Jennings is n't " blindly defending everything Trump does . " <p> " We have free speech in this country , and we have free debate , and we all have to collectively make decisions about how we 're going to govern ourselves , " says Jennings , stressing the need for debating issues in " an honest and open format . " <p> " I think CNN is doing that , " he says . " I think the LA Times could do that . " <p> " When Patrick told me what his vision was for the newspaper -- report the news and have a balanced editorial page -- I thought that 's exactly what media should be , " Jennings says , adding that he does n't understand " what 's so controversial about that . " <p> But Soon-Shiong 's shake-up at the Times has been " controversial , " as his Times itself described it this past weekend . Since the Harris endorsement imbroglio , the Times has seen a steady wave of opinion section departures , leaving only one of the original board members remaining ; meanwhile , the Times reported , an estimated 20,000 subscribers dropped the paper . Oliver Darcy , who has been reporting on upheaval inside the Times , framed Soon-Shiong 's actions atop Monday 's " Status " newsletter as " Meddling for MAGA . " <p> The Times owner touched on the opinion resignations in our interview , saying that " it was clear that there were very strong feelings about this idea of having a balanced viewpoint . " Soon-Shiong says that he felt that the editorial board was " veering very progressive , " and in his mind " it was really not healthy just to have what I call an echo chamber of a single view and almost canceling , so to speak , the views of both sides . " <p> Soon-Shiong says he is working through a list of around 20 to 25 candidates " across the spectrum from left , center , to right , " who he is contacting personally with a potential opportunity to join the restructured editorial board . While he declined to share any names on the list , Soon-Shiong says it will likely be announced early 2025 , once the board is full of new contributors . Jennings 's role , it should be noted , is not a staff position . <p> " I think what he wants to do is kind of visionary , truthfully , " Jennings tells me of Soon-Shiong 's plans . " The editorial board should not be an echo chamber . There should be views that represent all of America . " <h> Natalie Korach <h> Media Reporter <p> Natalie Korach is a contributing media reporter at Vanity Fair . She has covered the intersection of the media industry , business , and politics for the last four years . Most recently Natalie served as TheWrap 's media reporter . She also previously worked as a guest producer for i24News English in Tel Aviv , Israel .... Read more <p> Patrick Soon-Shiong 's decision to not endorse has led to a high-profile resignation , staff and subscriber frustration , and criticism from a California rival . " Silence is complicity , " responded Los Angeles Magazine . <p> Vanity Fair editors Claire Howorth and Michael Calderone reflect on the lessons learned from Democrats ' catastrophic loss and lay out ways the media can hold Republicans to account next year . " We need to be clear on the norms being broken , " says Calderone . <p> Journalists covering the hectic transition period speak of exhaustion and a sense of d ? j ? vu -- yet are resolved to tackle whatever comes their way . " If Trump kicks us out of the White House briefing room , " says the Times ' Peter Baker , " we 'll still cover from the outside . " 
@@119056833 <p> President Joe Biden 's staff played a pivotal role in shielding him from the public eye by constructing walls around the aging Democratic leader , blocking out even key lawmakers and senior members of his own administration . <p> A stack of interviews from anew Wall Street Journalreport included concerns from Sen. Joe Manchin ( I-WV ) , a maverick former Democrat who spent long hours negotiating with the White House during Biden 's first few years in office . <p> Noting he had questions at the time about whether Biden had the stamina required to run the country , Manchin suggested presidential staffers had become avid gatekeepers , calling them a group of " eager beavers . " <p> " They were going , ' I 'll take care of that , ' " Manchin said of a group of staffers who included then-White House chief of staff Ron Klain . <p> The gatekeeping reportedly has gone so far as to limit top Cabinet officials ' access to Biden , even as the United States grapples with wars in Ukraine and Gaza . <p> Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin has seen his access to one-on-one , in-person briefings with Biden significantly decline in the past two years , per the report . <p> Even during the chaotic 2021 U.S. military withdrawal from Afghanistan , Biden 's staffers reportedly pushed top lawmakers , including the top Democrat on the House Armed Services Committee , away from the commander in chief . <p> Rep. Adam Smith ( D-WA ) said that while he tried to hold a direct conversation with Biden regarding his concerns about the plans , he was never able to get on the phone with him before the disastrous withdrawal left 13 U.S. troops dead . Smith reportedly wanted the president and his team to measure their expectations , knowing himself how complicated a mission like this would be . <p> Smith had just one call with Biden during his time in the White House shortly after the Afghanistan affair , according to the congressman . <p> " The Biden White House was more insulated than most , " Smith told the outlet . " I spoke with Barack Obama on a number of occasions when he was president and I was n't even chairman " of the Armed Services committee . <p> Rep. Adam Smith ( D-WA ) speaks during a House Armed Services Committee hearing on the conclusion of military operations in Afghanistan on Wednesday , Sept. 29 , 2021 , on Capitol Hill in Washington . ( Olivier Douliery/Pool via AP ) <p> The same " insulation " problem was perpetuated when it came to giving presidential pollsters access to Biden the candidate , per the report . All polling information was funneled through adviser Mike Donilon rather than given directly to Biden , as was the case in 2020 . The lack of contact with the president fueled concerns that he was disconnected from voters , according to the outlet . <p> The " insulated " White House environment staffers reportedly worked to build comes as Biden , 82 , has faced increasing scrutiny over his mental acuity , with doctors particularly questioning the president 's cognitive state following his presidential debate in June . Biden 's campaign exit the following month was largely driven by concerns about his mental state and capacity to lead the country for another four years . <p> Manchin said even during his frequent contact with the White House during the first half of the Biden administration , he felt like " maybe the president just lost that fight . " <p> While concerns that Biden 's staffers are trying to conceal his decline from top officials are on the rise , records show the number of meetings Biden has held with his Cabinet has sharply declined compared to previous administrations . <p> Biden has held nine full Cabinet meetings over the past four years . In contrast , former President Barack Obama held 19 , and President-elect Donald Trump held 25 full Cabinet meetings during their first terms in office , according to former CBS News correspondent Mark Knoller. 
@@119063724 <p> The end of 2024 brings with it the ritual of reflection , when we catalogue the year 's triumphs , struggles , and standout moments . Included in this tradition are best-of lists , and books are no exception to this rule . <p> Great books , and the stories they tell , make lasting impressions on their readers . They have the power to make us feel seen , to sweep us up into extraordinary worlds , and leave us with a different perspective than when we started . <p> " This book changed my life , " reader Dianna from Cambridge said of one of the book picks below . <p> Everyone 's idea of " great " or " the best " is subjective , and these differences are reflected in the diverse list of books Boston.com readers loved this year . Genres range from sports memoirs to historical fiction to post-apocalyptic fantasy novels and more . <p> Advertisement : <p> Take a look at some of the books Boston.com readers loved the most in 2024 below . Hover over each book cover to see its genre and themes , and click on the book cover to see what readers said about their favorite pick . <p> Scroll through the full list below to see all of the books Boston.com readers loved the most in 2024 . <p> This novel weaves back and forth between the perspectives and timelines of two Latina women breaking into the art world . Anita de Monte was a rising star artist in the 1980s , but after her sudden tragic death in 1985 , her work begins to fade away into obscurity . Raquel Toro is an art history student in the late 1990s studying at Brown University , who ultimately discovers de Monte 's story and sees how it parallels her own life . This book was a nominee for a 2024 Goodreads Choice Award for Readers ' Favorite Historical Fiction and was part of TIME Magazine 's Must-Read Books of 2024 . <p> This memoir from sports and cultural icon Bill Walton recounts his injuries and recoveries , set in the context of his UCLA triumphs under John Wooden , his storied NBA career , and his affinity for music and the Grateful Dead . <p> This biography tells the story of Elzada Clover and Lois Jotter , two pioneering botanists and their historic boat trip down the Colorado River and through the Grand Canyon . The book won the National Outdoor Book Award for History/Biography . <p> " Beautifully written book about a not very well-known trip of two female botanists and their rafting of the Grand Canyon . A tale of the dedication to their scientific exploration and abilithy to do what no one thought women were capable of . " -- Alan P. , Deerfield , New Hampshire <p> In this memoir , actress and it-girl Julia Fox chronicles her life and breakout role in the film " Uncut Gems , " her trendsetting style , and her dreams . <p> " Every single page of this book was shocking ! I loved learning about Julia Fox 's chaotic past and the struggles she has overcome . The best part was hearing countless stories of imperfect women being there for each other . Julia is a true girl 's girl ! " -- Claire , Brookline <p> " Emily Henry not only has Aaron Sorkin level banter in her books but also manages to grasp somewhere deep inside your soul and hug an insecurity you did n't even know you had , to tell you it 's going to be alright . From eldest child syndrome in ' Book Lovers ' to dealing with losing your other half in a breakup in ' Funny Story , ' I want all my problems to be solved by Emily Henry and the men and best friends she creates . This book is not going to change the world and there 's no trauma porn but it 's exactly what is needed now . An escape and to be told that everything is going to be alright in the end , that it may seem dark now , but there 's a happy ending at the end of the book . " -- M.O. , Quincy <p> Truman Capote 's " In Cold Blood " tells the story of the lives of the Clutter family of Holcomb , Kansas , and of the two men , Richard Eugene Hickock and Perry Edward Smith , who brutally killed them on the night of November 15 , 1959 . <p> The novel is a re-imagining of " Adventures of Huckleberry Finn " by Mark Twain but told from the perspective of Huckleberry 's friend on his travels , Jim , who is an escaped slave . " James " won the 2024 National Book Award in the fiction category . <p> " ' James ' by Percival Everett ( who just won the National Book Award ) is by far the very best book that I read this year . It 's an unforgettable retelling of Huck Finn from the point of view of Jim ( or James as he prefers ) . It 's hilarious and poignant and just brilliant . This story gets under your skin and you keep thinking about it and James long after you read the last words . I love love Percival Everett and this is my favorite book by him . " -- Jules , Hopkinton <p> The novel is the first of the " Lonesome Dove " series , set in the days of the Old West , and centers on the relationships between several retired Texas Rangers and their adventures driving a cattle herd from Texas to Montana . <p> " I did n't expect to love this book as much as I did . Hilarious , sad , heart-wrenching and with the best cast of characters of any book I 've ever read . Even after reading 858 pages , the ending left me wanting more , so naturally I had to read the sequel , ' The Streets of Laredo . ' It 's definitely among my favorite all-time books . " -- Joline G. , Lewiston , Maine <p> A novel about a single house in the woods of New England , told through the lives of those who inhabit it across the centuries . <p> I have always appreciated authors who can write well , remaining elegant and coherent throughout their storytelling , while exploring different genres . David Mitchell 's ' Cloud Atlas ' certainly comes to mind here . <p> In ' North Woods ' Mason has designed an intimate chronicle that takes place over generations elegantly shifting between historical , supernatural , and fantastical fictions . It 's an adept and intimate jaunt through history , manifested through the eyes of a remote cabin in the ' north woods ' of its title , revealing how each of its characters had lived in it , shaped it and left their own traces of humanity behind for each upcoming inheritor to discover . <p> ' North Woods ' deserves all of the praise it 's been receiving from critics and its readers alike . -- Dennis F. , Portland , Maine <p> Four lives are drawn together on the island of Makatea in French Polynesia , which is targeted for a project to build floating cities on the ocean . The novel explores themes of technology , colonialism , and the human impact on the environment . <p> " Richard powers tells layered stories and the characters intersect and diverge . There 's plenty of science information , information about our planet and our history . It 's all written so simply and appealing that you do n't feel guilty for reading a novel because you 've learned so much ! " -- Celeste H. , Boston <p> " Seven Pillars of Wisdom " is the autobiographical account of the experiences of British Army Colonel T. E. Lawrence while serving as a military advisor to Bedouin forces during the Arab Revolt against the Ottoman Empire of 1916 to 1918 . <p> " Filled with interesting history and storytelling . It was hard to put down . " -- Fred R. , Boston <p> This historical fiction novel is about a coal merchant in 1985 Ireland who discovers that a local convent is actually a Magdalene laundry . The book was adapted into a film of the same name starring Cillian Murphy . <p> This memoir explores belonging in a contested homeland , from a Palestinian writer . <p> " Author Fida Jiryis tells the history of Palestinian struggle in Palestine and Israel with accurate representation of both today 's life and the political and social realities and consequences to come . History is included and informs the personal tale . Personal , familial and political history are poignantly described . The personal and political costs of occupation are worth deep consideration , especially in light of the war in Gaza . " -- Ellis O. , Mendon <p> This novel tells the story of three teenagers who return from the dead , seemingly resurrected by their former music teacher , and must compete for the prize of remaining alive . <p> " This book changed my life . In a time when I was feeling deep and terrible despair , Link pulled me into the rich , complex inner lives of her characters and showed me how it is possible to survive and even grow in the most impossible situations . This intricately written novel has elements of horror , which I usually do n't like , but it handles those moment with such tenderness and skill that I hardly noticed . By far one of the best novels I have ever read . " -- Dianna , Cambridge <p> This historical fiction novel is set in Kerala , India , and follows three generations of a family that suffers from at least one person dying by drowning in each generation . <p> " A matriarchal journey down through generations of a 20th century family in southwest India . Amazingly rich and textured story of hardships , joy and just being human . Reminds me of ' A Fine Balance ' by Rohinton Mistry . But , not as depressing . Great book . " -- John M. , Boston <p> In this fictionalized account of a true story , a wealthy businessman named Carl Fletcher is kidnapped from his driveway , brutalized , and held for ransom in 1980 . <p> " A hilarious family epic in the Franzen mold . In an era of identity-driven narratives that choke on their self-seriousness , this one stands out for cementing itself in a particular identity group ( the suburban Jewish-American nouveau-riche ) , and doing so with enough humor and pathos that the reader does n't gag on the results . " -- Beamer <p> Kristin Hannah 's novel tells the tales of two sisters separated in France during World War II . One sister is left to make impossible decisions for her and her daughter 's survival after her husband joins the frontlines , while the younger sister , isolated and betrayed by those around her , ultimately joins the resistance against the Nazis . This book won a Goodreads Choice Award for Readers ' Favorite Historical Fiction in 2015 and an Audie Award for Fiction in 2016 . <p> Set during the COVID-19 pandemic in Dublin , this novel follows Paula Spencer in her mid-60s when she 's just about to move forward from the troubles of her past , until her daughter comes home to her after deciding to leave her husband and three children . Published this past September , this is Doyle 's third installment in the Paula Spencer series , but it can be read as a standalone book . <p> This historical fiction novel set in the Vietnam War follows twenty-year-old nursing student Frances " Frankie " McGrath as joins the Army Nurse Corps in 1965 . <p> " It was so moving and although it was historical fiction , she got the facts right as she always does . I could not put it down and am having a hard time picking up my next one -- nothing compares to it . " -- Marcia , Woburn 
@@119076932 <h> A look at Robert Cohen 's best photos of 2024 <p> Robert Cohen has been a staff photographer at the Post-Dispatch for 25 years . Next year marks his 38th year in photojournalism . Cohen 's first job was at The Sun-Tattler in Hollywood , Florida , long-shuttered and now home to a Holiday Inn . The former offices of his third newsroom , The Commercial Appeal in Memphis , will be auctioned in January . He thanks you for supporting local journalism , wherever you live . <p> St. Louis fire Capt . Joseph Neidel calls for water to be sent to his hose as firefighters arrive at a vacant house blaze in the 1400 block of Hamilton Boulevard near Wells Avenue in the Hamilton Heights neighborhood on Monday , Dec. 2 , 2024 . With the recent cold snap firefighters are responding to more vacant building fires . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Neighborhood residents Ronald Troupe , left , and Sam Eckert join Ryan Buell of Premier Demolition as they load a 9-foot , 4-inch tall rose window on a trailer , removed from the former St. Augustine Church during demolition after a March fire on Monday , April 15 , 2024 , in the St. Louis Place neighborhood . The 500-pound window is expected to be installed in an event space in the home of Premier 's owner Bill Buell . The church 's Emil Frei stained glass dates to the Gothic Revival-style construction of 1898 . <p> A Wonton King staff member offers prayers for good luck as lion dancers move through the kitchen , offering blessings as part of Lunar New Year celebrations in University City on Sunday , Feb. 11 , 2024 . The performances are done by martial arts students from the International Shaolin Wushu Center . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Members of the St. Louis SWAT team join a St. Louis firefighter perched on an aerial beside the Old Cathedral under the Gateway Arch as they train a sniper rifle at the Drury Plaza Hotel where a man was holding a woman hostage late into the afternoon on Wednesday , Jan. 24 , 2024 in downtown St. Louis . Two children also held in the room were released earlier in the morning . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Jerry Randall , 62 , wears gloves indoors , warming his hands on an electric heater he shares with Darlene Hughes , 64 , in their second floor unit of a four-family flat in the 4700 block of S. Grand Boulevard in Dutchtown on Saturday , Jan. 20 , 2024 . Randall has been a tenant of landlord Dara Daugherty for 13 years , paying her $650 a month for the apartment without a furnace . According to a lawsuit filed by the city , landlord Dara Daugherty has used the condemned building as a rooming house , illegally collecting rent . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Miller Career Academy wide receiver Robert Murphy heads out of his team 's victory huddle with his Halloween mask after the Phoenix beat Roosevelt 26-6 in their homecoming game on Saturday , Oct. 26 , 2024 at Gateway STEM . The Phoenix share players from Vashon High and Miller . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Visitors to Piazza Imo enjoy gelato and the sunset on Marconi Avenue in the Hill neighborhood on Saturday , Sept. 14 , 2024 . The Italian-style gathering spot , funded by private donors , opened in 2019 . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Wesley Bell supporter Shawntelle Fisher takes a call learning of the victory of Bell and in the Democratic congressional primary against incumbent U.S. Rep. Cori Bush on Tuesday , Aug. 6 , 2024 at the Marriott Grand Hotel in downtown St. Louis . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Adreyn Jones , 8 , and his brother Tajh , 5 , ride their electric motorbike past a fading memorial to Mike Brown on Cote Brilliante Avenue in the Kingsway West neighborhood of St. Louis on Wednesday , June 5 , 2024 . Their father Terry Jones said he had not talked to his sons about Brown , but would if they asked questions . " Let them enjoy things , " he said . " They do n't need to be scared of the police . " <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Kaykay Williams , 13 , center , leads the Eccentric Divine dancers during the Bridge The Gap 314 Juneteenth Parade on West Florissant Avenue in Ferguson on Wednesday , June 19 , 2024 . The street was the center of nightly protests following the 2014 police killing of Michael Brown . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> The family of the Rev. Earbie Bledsoe bush-hog a Ferguson field on the border of Kinloch on Saturday , June 15 , 2024 , where Bledsoe farmed for decades before his 2022 death . " It 's an obligation to keep it down , " said Bledsoe 's son-in-law , who declined to be identified . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Damille Dixson enjoys a moment as she burns trash and scrap wood outside her Kinloch home while awaiting a ride to work where Dixson , 29 , is a server on the overnight shift at the Waffle House in Berkeley on Friday , July 5 , 2024 . Her fire pit , an old pickup truck bed , burns while mattresses and construction debris rise behind her on Mable Avenue , part of rampant dumping on Kinloch streets . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Mable Avenue in Kinloch is strewn with rampant dumping to the point that driving through town is often a difficult task . A man stops to scavenge in freshly tossed furniture on Saturday , June 29 , 2024 . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Children swim beside the Kinloch fire station as they attend a summer feeding program run by Maria Bolden at the old post office on Martin Luther King Boulevard on Wednesday , June 19 , 2024 . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Members of the Ferguson Sea Lions Swim Team shake hands before riding in the Fourth of July parade in downtown Ferguson on Thursday , July 4 , 2024 . From left are Jon Lee , Solomon Owens , Amos Keller and Alden Anderson . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Liz Yoder of Ballwin gets a face full of love from Brielle as she visits with the recently spayed dog in an adoption room at the St. Louis County Pet Adoption Center in Olivette on Friday , Aug. 23 , 2024 . The Animal Protective Association of Missouri , that has managed the facility for almost two years , announced that it is leaving the contract early next year . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Fans and players stand for the national anthem in a sparsely-filled Busch Stadium as the St. Louis Cardinals face the San Diego Padres on Thursday , Aug. 29 , 2024 at Busch Stadium . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Two eastern monarch butterflies feed on a Mexican sunflower in a Webster Groves garden as they migrate through Missouri heading to their winter home in Mexico on Saturday , Oct. 5 , 2024 . According to the World Wildlife Fund , migratory numbers have fallen significantly due to multiple factors , including recent drought and loss of habitat from the widespread use of herbicides contributing to the loss of food sources of milkweed and other nectar plants . The population of migrating butterflies passing through Missouri will peak in late October and early November . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Isaiah Blalock visits with his daughter Isabella Blalock , 4 , as they share a treat following their first Fathers Walk at Michelle Obama Early Childhood Academic Center in Bellefontaine Neighbors on Wednesday , Oct. 2 , 2024 . The walk series , promoting positive male role models in the Riverview Gardens School District , will be held at various schools on Wednesday mornings in October . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Graffiti is painted on the Cass Avenue overpass over Interstate 44 , looking down on a freshly-tagged Broadway Avenue exit and the old Sligo Iron Store Co. warehouse building on Thursday , Sept. 12 , 2024 . The vacant warehouse is part of a complex listed in the National Register of Historic Places . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Sue Unger and Rick Ryan take a selfie outside Uncle Bill 's Pancake House in North Hampton as they arrive for a sunrise breakfast on Monday , Oct. 7 , 2024 . The breakfast mainstay that opened in 1961 in a former steakhouse at 3427 South Kingshighway , closes Tuesday . " I worked at Bartolinos in my 20s and we always came here after work for coffee after midnight , " said Unger . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> A diner has the classic breakfast at Uncle Bill 's Pancake House in the North Hampton neighborhood on Monday , Oct. 7 , 2024 . The landmark that opened in 1961 in a former steakhouse at 3427 South Kingshighway , closes Tuesday . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Mandi Shead , a server for the past nine years , enjoys a moment with the line cooks while picking up an order at Uncle Bill 's Pancake House in North Hampton on Monday , Oct. 7 , 2024 . The landmark that opened in 1961 in a former steakhouse at 3427 South Kingshighway , closes Tuesday . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Protester Wes Schnitker has words with a St. Louis police officer as arrests of anti-Boeing and pro-Palestinian protesters begin on Market Street , interrupting the St. Louis Pride parade downtown on Sunday , June 30 , 2024 . The parade was delayed about 40 minutes as police removed the protesters after firefighters cut the chains that held them together . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Performance artist Billy Bitting rolls past painter Laura Lloyd as she sets up her booth before the St. Louis Art Fair opens in downtown Clayton on Friday , Sept. 6 , 2024 . An abundance of color with mild temperatures will greet guests to the annual fair that runs through Sunday afternoon . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Hunter Osman of Sullivan coincidentally wore a favorite t-shirt as he takes a photo of the bolt through his neck as he portrays an earthquake victim during the disaster simulation of the evacuation of 30,000 people outside Busch Stadium on Monday , July 15 , 2024 . National Guardsmen and area first responders are in St. Louis training to respond to the major earthquake that causes the derailment of a train carrying hazardous materials . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Solar flares and Baily 's beads are seen as the sun enters totality during the eclipse as seen from historic Ste. Genevieve on Monday , April 8 , 2024 . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Young women take a photo together as area Muslims gather for Eid al-Fitr prayers to celebrate the end of Ramadan on Wednesday , April 10 , 2024 at the Chesterfield Sports Complex on Eatherton Road in Chesterfield . The event breaks a month of dawn-sunset fasting in the worldwide Muslim community . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Mother Reka carries Ussuri , one of the Amur tiger cub triplets , as she takes him back to the den during a brief exploration of the cubs ' Big Cat Country habitat at the St. Louis Zoo on Thursday , March 21 , 2024 . The triplets , two male and one female , were born Nov. 13 , 2023 and were awaiting full vaccination before being placed on display . They will not be on regular view to zoo visitors until their mother is comfortable with having them out in the habitat . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Workers from Spirtas Wrecking watch as the last of about 800 St. Louis BWorks bicycles stored underneath rubble from the 2020 collapse of one of the Lemp Brewery buildings are lifted away on Friday , April 12 , 2024 . The six story building used by the nonprofit that repairs and supplies bikes to children , partially collapsed in August of 2020 in the Marine Villa neighborhood . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> RIGHT TOP : A cicada emerges from its exoskeleton as an expected half trillion begin to appear in St. Louis on Wednesday , May 8 , 2024 . After spending 13 years underground they come to the surface when ground temperatures reach 64 degrees . RIGHT BOTTOM : Kaykay Williams , 13 , center , leads the Eccentric Divine dancers during the Bridge The Gap 314 Juneteenth Parade on West Florissant Avenue in Ferguson on Wednesday , June 19 , 2024 . The street was the center of nightly protests following the 2014 police killing of Michael Brown . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> St. Louis Battlehawks head coach Anthony Becht embraces linebacker Travis Feeney outside the locker room following a 25-15 loss to the San Antonio Brahmas during the XFL conference championship at the Dome at America 's Center on Sunday , June 9 , 2024 . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Gracie " The Elf " Killen dives into Shark Canyon at the St. Louis Aquarium to greet guests and answer questions about its inhabitants during a holiday-themed dive on Tuesday , Nov. 26 , 2024 at Union Station . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> St. Louis area MLS NEXT youth league teams from U15-U17 practice on the St. Louis City SC fields in downtown St. Louis on Wednesday , March 6 , 2024 . Rising behind them are The Wheel , Union Station and the Civil Courts building . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Patti Manley , 69 , moves a shredded American flag as she gathers branches from the backyard of her mother 's home on Morningdale Place in Mehlville , Mo . on Monday , May 27 , 2024 following a violent storm and possible tornado Sunday evening . Manley was staying with her mother Jackie Moloney , 88 , when the storm hit . She and her mother rode it out in an interior bathroom . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> A shuttered Chesterfield Mall becomes a parking lot for overstock of new Tesla Cybertrucks outside the old Dillard 's department store on Tuesday , Oct. 8 , 2024 . Demolition of the mall is scheduled to begin on Oct. 15 , making way for the mixed-use development Downtown Chesterfield . The Dillard 's will remain standing . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Visitors pass through a Candy Cane tunnel before approaching the Meadow Grass display at the Garden Glow in the Missouri Botanical Garden on Wednesday , Nov. 20 , 2024 . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> At least three windows on the old AT&amp;T tower were shot out following an early morning shooting where six people were struck and one killed early Sunday , June 23 , 2024 . The shooting happened between the entrance to Citygarden and the Serra sculpture at 10th and Market streets . The Civil Courts building is reflected in the office tower window . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Dani , a standard poodle dyed as a king cake for Mardi Gras , joins Penelope , left , and Dexter , right , as they await the beginning of the Purina Pet Parade in Soulard on Sunday , Feb. 4 , 2024 . Dani , owned by Kim Kahl , will be shaved in the spring after her hair grows out . The annual parade is part of the St. Louis Mardi Gras celebration . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Dave Aubuchon , an electrician with The Family Arena , makes room for a Spinosaurus to enter the loading dock entrance in St. Charles as Jurassic Quest , an interactive dinosaur production , is staged on Thursday , Oct. 10 , 2024 . The touring exhibit of life-size dinosaurs runs from Friday through Sunday before heading to El Paso , Texas for its next stop . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> David Hill climbs over ruined cases of beer removed from the basement of the Trainwreck Saloon in Rock Hill on Wednesday , Nov. 6 , 2024 after Deer Creek flooded the business late Monday . George Hansford 's business flooded twice in 2022 and he said this was the second worst flood since he bought it in 1982 , with 18 inches filling the bar and restaurant . He hopes to reopen this weekend . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Lasers , fog , music and an orb representing the sun alter the landscape in the " Into The Sunset " display at Light Cycles at Brookdale Farms in Eureka on Dec. 13 . <p> Robert Cohen <p> Ready for Halloween , Mark Reynolds votes early beside his wife Jennifer , left , at the St. Charles County Election Authority in St. Charles , Mo . on Thursday , Oct. 31 , 2024 . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Zainab Abdul-Khaliq , left , Sidra Alsabbagh , Habiba Ellebedy , Mariyah Abdelbaset , Talyah Alkhiyat and Fatima Shariff roast halal marshmallows to make s'mores during a meeting of four Salam Scouts troops at the Islamic Foundation of Greater St. Louis on Nov. 16 . About 176 Muslim children across four states have joined 21 new troops following a fallout with the Girl Scouts organization over a bracelet fundraiser to aid children in Gaza . <p> Robert Cohen , Post-Dispatch <p> Work crews erect a crane tower on the site of the new Cardinal Glennon Children 's Hospital building on South Grand Boulevard at Chouteau Avenue as the hunter 's moon sets on Friday , Oct. 18 , 2024 . The full moon 's name marks the changing of the seasons after the autumnal equinox. 
@@119101633 <p> An Israeli airstrike on a residential building in central Gaza killed at least seven Palestinians , including four children , and wounded 16 other people on Friday afternoon , health officials said . <p> The strike hit an apartment in the Jaffa residential tower in the built-up Nuseirat refugee camp . The dead and wounded were taken to Aqsa and Awda hospitals . <p> The Israeli military did not immediately offer comment on the strike . Israel faces heavy international criticism over the unprecedented levels of civilian casualties and the dire humanitarian conditions in Gaza . Israel says it only strikes militants and blames the Hamas militant group for civilian deaths because its fighters operate in residential areas . <p> Advertisement <p> More than 45,200 Palestinians have been killed in 14 months of war in Gaza between Israel and Hamas , according to the health ministry in the territory . The tallies do not distinguish between civilians and combatants , but officials have said more than half of the fatalities are women and children . The war in Gaza was sparked by Hamas ' October 2023 attack on southern Israel , in which militants killed about 1,200 people and took about 250 hostages . Negotiators say Israel and Hamas are inching toward a cease-fire deal that would free the remaining hostages in Gaza . <p> Killings , including a notorious massacre , in a Syrian suburb left residents wanting revenge . Then they heard a militia leader was going to be hanged . <p> Dec. 19 , 2024 <p> In the occupied West Bank on Friday , Israeli settlers set fire to a mosque and vandalized property , the head of the Palestinian village council said , as Israeli police pledged to investigate . <p> The West Bank has seen a surge in violence by Jewish settlers during the war in Gaza , and rights groups say the Israeli army often turns a blind eye . <p> Advertisement <p> Nasfat al-Khafash , the head of the council in Marda , in the northern West Bank , where the attack occurred , said a group of settlers arrived early in the morning , setting the mosque on fire and scrawling hateful messages on it . <p> Associated Press video showed spray-painted stars of David and the words in Hebrew , " the mosque will burn , the temple will be built , " an apparent reference to the ultranationalist desire to establish a Third Temple for Jews in Jerusalem at the holiest and most contested site in the Holy Land . <p> Religious Zionists , most believing in a divine right to govern , now have outsize influence in Israel . The war in the Gaza Strip is energizing their settlement push . <p> March 13 , 2024 <p> " These slogans reflect their upbringing and hatred towards Palestinians and Arabs , " said Al-Khafash , adding that the settlers received " full support " from the government of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu -- the furthest-right government in Israel 's history . <p> Advertisement <p> Israel 's police , military and Shin Bet internal security agency said they were investigating . " We view the incident seriously and will act with determination to bring those responsible to justice , " they said in a statement . <p> The U.N . ' s humanitarian office said settler attacks on Palestinian farmers during this fall 's olive harvest season " at least tripled " in 2024 compared to each of the last three years . <p> In the West Bank and East Jerusalem , more than 700,000 Jewish settlers have Israeli citizenship , while the 3 million Palestinians in the territory live under Israeli military law . 
@@119105239 <p> CONCORD , N.H. ( AP ) -- A growing number of U.S. colleges and universities are advising international students to return to campus before President-elect Donald Trump is inaugurated , over concerns that he might impose travel bans like he did during his first administration . <p> More than a dozen schools have issued advisories , even though Trump 's plans remain uncertain . At some schools , the spring semester begins before Trump will take office , so students may have to be back in class anyway . But for anyone whose ability to stay in the United States depends on an academic visa , they say it 's best to reduce their risks and get back to campus before Jan. 20 . <p> Here 's a look at what Trump has said and done and how schools and students are preparing for his second term : <h> What did Trump do in the past ? <p> Trump issued an executive order in January 2017 banning travel to the U.S. by citizens of seven predominantly Muslim countries -- Iraq , Syria , Iran , Sudan , Libya , Somalia and Yemen . Travelers from those nations were either barred from getting on their flights or detained at U.S. airports after they landed . They included students and faculty as well as business people , tourists and visitors to friends and family . <p> Trump later removed some countries and added others to the list -- 15 nations were affected at some point during his presidency . More than 40,000 people were ultimately refused visas because of the ban , according to the U.S. State Department . President Joe Biden rescinded the orders when he took office in 2021 . <h> How are students being affected ? <p> More than 1.1 million international students were enrolled in U.S. colleges and universities during the 2023-24 school year , according to Open Doors , a data project partially funded by the U.S. State Department . Students from India and China have accounted for more than half of all international students in the U.S. , and about 43,800 come from the 15 countries affected by Trump 's travel restrictions . <p> Jacky Li , a third-year environmental studies major at University of California , Berkeley , will be traveling home to China Dec. 21 and returning Jan. 16 . Though he made his plans months before Berkeley officials sent the advisory , he said worry is growing among international students . <p> " There 's a fear that this kind of restriction will enlarge into a wider community , considering the geopolitical tensions nowadays around the world , so the fear is definitely there , " said Li , who urged Trump to support , rather than thwart , important academic research . <p> " If the U.S. is really a champion of academic freedom , what you should do is not restrict this kind of communications between different countries of the world , " he said . <h> What might Trump do now ? <p> Trump 's transition team did not respond to questions on the topic this week , but in the past he has said he 'll revive the travel ban and expand it , pledging new " ideological screening " for non-U.S . citizens to bar " dangerous lunatics , haters , bigots and maniacs . " <p> " We are n't bringing in anyone from Gaza , Syria , Somalia , Yemen or Libya or anywhere else that threatens our security , " Trump said at an October 2023 campaign event in Iowa . <p> Trump also vowed to " revoke the student visas of radical anti-American and anti-Semitic foreigners at our colleges and universities " in response to campus protests . <h> What are schools telling students ? <p> A person rides a scooter , Tuesday , Dec. 17 , 2024 , near an entrance to Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge , Mass . ( AP Photo/Steven Senne ) <p> School officials have advised international students heading home for winter break to return before Inauguration Day and to prepare for possible delays at immigration control . <p> The list includes Ivy League universities such as Harvard and Brown , Boston schools such as Northeastern University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , and other schools around the country , from Johns Hopkins University to the University of Southern California . Some offer classes that begin the day after Inauguration Day . <p> Cornell University told its students that a travel ban involving the 13 nations Trump previously targeted " is likely to go into effect soon after inauguration , " and that new countries could be added to the list , particularly China and India . It advised students , faculty and staff from those countries to return to campus before the semester starts Jan. 21 . <p> Other schools did n't go so far as to say a ban is likely but instead advised students to plan ahead and prepare for delays . 
@@119108521 <h> CNN Political Briefing <h> Join CNN Political Director David Chalian as he guides you through our ever-changing political landscape . Every week , David and a guest take you inside the latest developments with insight and analysis from the key players in politics . <p> In a month , President Joe Biden will hand the keys of the White House back to his political rival , Donald Trump . Franklin Foer is a staff writer for The Atlantic , and he closely observed the first two years of Biden 's presidency to write his book , " The Last Politician : Inside Joe Biden 's White House and the Struggle for America 's Future . " He joins CNN Political Director and Washington Bureau Chief David Chalian to discuss what Biden 's legacy will be and whether the accomplishments of his presidency will be reduced to an " asterisk " in the shadow of Trump 's win . <p> ' Hey , everyone . I 'm David Chalian , CNN 's Washington Bureau Chief and Political Directo , and welcome to the CNN Political Briefing . In one month , President Joe Biden 's one-term presidency will come to a close . He 'll be handing the White House back to his political rival , Donald Trump . After being pressured to drop out of the race in July , Biden saw his chosen successor , Vice President Kamala Harris , decisively defeated . Now , Biden has a few weeks left to put his closing marks on his presidency . So what will his last acts as president be ? And how will America remember him ? Franklin Foer is a staff writer for The Atlantic and he 's the author of " The Last Politician , " a book that detailed the first two years of the Biden White House . He joins me now to discuss what Biden 's legacy will be as we enter his final days in office . Thanks so much for being here . Really appreciate it . <p> Franklin Foer <p> 00:00:58 <p> So good to be here . <p> David Chalian <p> 00:00:59 <p> So you wrote in the immediate aftermath of the election that -- I 'll quote you -- quote , " Joe Biden can not escape the fact that his four years in office paved the way for the return of Donald Trump . This is his legacy . Everything else is an asterisk . " Now , is that your belief that , given all the work you 've done in studying Joe Biden 's presidency , the book you wrote on the first two years of it and your observations of him , history will record his presidency , you believe , as that -- that he is the one that handed the keys to the White House back to Donald Trump ? <p> Franklin Foer <p> 00:01:39 <p> ' I think so . I mean , I think , if you could have put a pin in his presidency somewhere and at the beginning of 2023 , you would have said he 's had a pretty darn successful first term as president . But then , you know , he ran . He said that he was going to return the country to some semblance of pre-Trump normal . His political agenda -- preventing Trump from returning to the White House -- was really the end goal of almost everything that he proposed and everything that he did . He said he was going to preserve democracy , and by failing to withdraw from the race and by setting up an election where Trump had all the cards stacked in his favor , he essentially undermined the primary goal of his presidency . <p> David Chalian <p> 00:02:24 <p> And in all the reporting you did during those first two years , did you ever pick up on or was there any discussion or consideration of him not seeking a second term ? <p> Franklin Foer <p> 00:02:35 <p> No . No . I mean , I think that that was not a conversation that came up that much during the first two years . I think that if you talk to people within the White House , they were assuming that he 'd run again . But he had n't really gone through the process of thinking that through . And I think when Joe Biden talked to his aides about it , he always says , you know , look , I have n't made up my mind if I 'm going to run again , but you should assume that the default is that I am going to run . And they did . <p> David Chalian <p> 00:03:01 <p> You know , a lot of people in analyzing this election have said sort of that -- what you just described right there , that assumption and then that decision was the original sin here for Democrats , that Joe Biden , given his advanced age , was never in the driver 's seat of any kind of reelection bid . I 'm just wondering , do you think his team , again just because of your experience in reporting stuff out with them , insulated him from that thinking that the broader Democratic establishment -- I mean , obviously , he was aware of the James Carvilles or David Axelrods bellyaching publicly . But there was a broad sentiment in the Democratic establishment that this was not the best path forward for the party . Was he just impervious to that ? Did his aides not allow that in to affect his thinking and your understanding ? <p> Franklin Foer <p> 00:03:51 <p> ' I 'm not sure that there was ever really the broad thinking within the Democratic Party . People like Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer and a lot of other big time Democrats like Joe Biden as a human being , and they think that he did a good job as president . And none of them went to Joe Biden and said you need to step aside . And so it 's not just his aides who are at fault here . I think it 's everybody was at fault . And to be sure -- and I experienced this myself -- is that when you looked at Joe Biden up close during the first couple of years of his presidency , he was totally the guy who was in charge . And I think the question was n't , okay , is Joe Biden compos mentis ? Clearly , the answer is that Joe Biden had complete control of his faculties , that he was the guy who -- where the buck stopped in the White House . The question always was , does he have the stamina to run for president again ? And , more than that , do we want to have an 86-year-old president ? And I think Democrats just looked at the first part of that and said , okay , everything is is up in the attic . But they did n't look at the second and third parts . <p> David Chalian <p> 00:04:55 <p> Which is astonishing because the American people were looking at it . The polling goes back to the summer of ' 23 of Americans expressing real concern about his age and stamina . <p> Franklin Foer <p> 00:05:05 <p> Yeah , I mean , I think , not to reduce this , but it 's something that 's incredibly common when people have an older relative , that when they 're with them all of the time , they do n't necessarily notice all of the symptoms of aging and they can just see the ways in which they 're navigating their way through the day in a perfectly competent manner . But from afar , when you look at somebody , you have n't seen them on a daily basis , you 're able to see the ways in which the advances of time have basically dulled or diminished them . <p> David Chalian <p> 00:05:36 <p> That makes sense . I 've not thought about it quite that way before , but that is our everyday sort of human experience with our own families and friends and neighbors and the like . So , take me into this period as much as you understand it . You know , we hear time and again from the White House and White House aides running through the tape . What is your assessment of how Joe Biden is wrapping up this presidency ? <p> Franklin Foer <p> 00:05:58 <p> So I think Joe Biden has a lot of things that he 's focused on , and he 's just kind of given up on maybe some of the public parts of the presidency . And it never really felt like , even going back to the beginning of this term , that he enjoyed the public parts of the job as much as you think that he would . He 's got a long sense of grievance with the press , and so he does n't enjoy everything being filtered through the media . I think he feels like he ca n't get a fair shake in public opinion or with the press , and so he 's kind of playing for history . <p> David Chalian <p> 00:06:30 <p> I think he may have felt that way for the last 52 years . <p> Franklin Foer <p> 00:06:32 <p> That 's correct . That is correct . That is correct . Ever since Maureen Dowd ran her famous piece about his plagiarism , I think that , you know , he 's felt that -- or maybe even going back further beyond that . But so he 's , I think he 's still doing things , and he 's still engaged . But his approval is at the lowest point that it 's ever been , and I think that 's because he 's publicly disengaged . <p> David Chalian <p> 00:06:54 <p> Yeah . I mean , I saw a new poll out from Marquette University today had his approval at a low in their polling of the entire term . So he 's sort of exiting at a low point . Even among Democrats , his approval rating dropped below 70% somewhere in the high 60s among Democrats . <p> Franklin Foer <p> 00:07:12 <p> Because Democrats are in the same place that I am , where they kind of blame him for Trump 's election . <p> David Chalian <p> 00:07:18 <p> ' There 's no doubt . And , by the way , I think appropriately so . I mean , I think it 's hard in any honest analysis of what went on in this election to say that he does n't absorb a whole bunch of the reasons why it ended up the way it did would be sort of just -- and some of it in his own doing and some of it in just the way we 've seen leaders in the Western world in the post-COVID inflationary period just dealing with backlash from their citizens . <p> Franklin Foer <p> 00:07:46 <p> His approval rating is still probably higher than Olaf Scholz 's or Macron 's or any number of center left politicians . <p> David Chalian <p> 00:07:53 <p> Yeah , little doubt about that . We 're going to take a quick break . We have a lot more to discuss with Frank Foer in just a moment . Stay with us . <p> David Chalian <p> 00:08:09 <p> Tell me what you thought about the Hunter Biden pardon as a part of Joe Biden 's legacy . Where where will that fit into the story of Joe Biden ? <p> Franklin Foer <p> 00:08:22 <p> ' I was honestly surprised that he did it . One of his most famous expressions is , " I give you my word is Biden . " And he was so explicit in saying that he would n't do it . I thought , okay , he 's thought this through , he 's made up his mind . But I think that really at core , Hunter Biden was afraid that he would get prosecuted by Donald Trump . I think there 's so much guilt , there 's so much hurt and pain that encrusts their relationship . That Joe Biden loved Joe Biden best . And everybody knew that . Hunter knew that . Joe Biden knew that Hunter knew that . And there was a lot of guilt that surrounded that . And Hunter Biden has really had kind of a tough go of things , even as he 's kind of lived this high-flying life that he 's lived . And I think that Joe Biden wanted to protect him in ways that he maybe failed him in the past . And the other thing is , is that I think as Joe Biden 's inner circle shrank over time , he was spending more time with Hunter Biden . Hunter Biden became one of his primary political advisers , and , therefore , I think if Hunter Biden really wanted this badly , Joe Biden was spending so much time talking to him in the last phases of his presidency that it became kind of inevitable that he would do it . <p> David Chalian <p> 00:09:38 <p> Yeah . Personally , I was not as surprised that he ended up doing it . What I was surprised at was how adamant he was that he was n't going to do it , that he did n't leave himself some wiggle room in the previous months when asked about this on multiple occasions , nor did White House spokespeople . Because what parent with this unique power would not want to preserve the option ? And certainly once he was no longer the candidate and did n't have to worry about what it might mean to hand it over to Harris had she won , it seemed like almost a no brainer for him , even though he 's gotten a ton of backlash . And , to your point about being sometimes bitter about the way the press covers him or about his fellow Democrats in the way they treat him , all my understanding from the White House is he is not really pleased with a lot of his Democratic colleagues on Capitol Hill and in town about the way they 've reacted to this . <p> Franklin Foer <p> 00:10:29 <p> Yeah , well , there 's a very real possibility that Donald Trump uses his Justice Department to prosecute his critics , and one of the things that Joe Biden talked about from day one , one of the reasons that he said that he was getting into this race to run for president to begin with in 2018 , 2019 , was that he wanted to protect the rule of law . No matter how strong the impulse is to protect your son -- any parent would feel something akin to that -- when you become president of United States , your primary responsibility is still to the nation . And it does n't really change anything in the big scheme of things , but it just feels like a disappointing and a bit of hypocrisy given everything else that he talked about . <p> David Chalian <p> 00:11:12 <p> Yes , more than a bit of hypocrisy , no doubt about that . Obviously , former chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , his role on the world stage is always front and center in Joe Biden 's mind , and the painful period for him that you wrote about at length in your book about the withdrawal from Afghanistan and the chaotic nature in which that took place . I 'm not sure . Did you ever pick up from him , or those closest to him , regret about that ? <p> Franklin Foer <p> 00:11:41 <p> Not from him . I think that there were people close to him who were involved in that process who feel regret , but I do n't think that he 's ever experienced regret . And we 've said a lot of uncharitable things about Joe Biden , but I think that that is going to be a decision and a moment that looks better with some distance and with some historical perspective because it did n't collapse American power , like some people said . It did n't make us seem like an unreliable ally , and it helped turn the page from one era in American foreign policy opening up the next . <p> David Chalian <p> 00:12:15 <p> The other big ticket foreign policy item that sort of remains on his desk is getting the hostages out of Gaza , and clearly , I mean , every indication is that the administration is working to the 11th hour on this and probably in alignment with the incoming Trump administration who would like to see this resolved before January 20th . Do you think all that has happened since October 7th of last year -- where does that fit into , do you think , the Biden legacy ? <p> Franklin Foer <p> 00:12:48 <p> I 'm not prepared to make a judgment about that because I think a lot can happen in the next couple of months . So they invested all of this time into brokering a normalization deal between the Saudis and the Israelis . If Joe Biden is able to get to a spot where he 's able to help reshape the countours of the Middle East where Iran -- this is not necessarily Joe Biden 's doing , but it 's kind of what 's happened in this chapter of history , is that Iran is a is an extremely weak regional power . There is an emerging alliance between the Israelis , the United States , the Gulf states that becomes the primary facts on the ground in the Middle East . And it 's not just a defense alliance . It 's not just a means of containing Iran . It 's also , it 's a trading bloc . They 've managed to stymie China 's efforts to become a strategic power in the region . Obviously , there 's so many passions enflamed because of the hostages , because of the destruction in Gaza , and those will continue to be important parts of the historical narrative . But there are other strands to the historical narrative that may supersede those other events . <p> David Chalian <p> 00:14:02 <p> ' So , I want to close out this conversation with you , sort of where we started , which is I want to pressure test this theory of yours about everything else being an asterisk . You poured years of your life into reporting on the first half of this administration , and your book portrays a really high-impact presidency , accomplishing very big things in an era where I 'm not sure many people thought big things were possible anymore . And you credit Joe Biden himself and his approach and his viewpoints as a sort of North Star throughout that . If you go back and reread your book , is your belief that that all just gets wiped away with Donald Trump returning to the presidency ? <p> Franklin Foer <p> 00:14:47 <p> No , I mean , well , look , we need to see a couple things unfold . How does the constitutional system , how does American democracy look four years from now ? If Donald Trump does n't manage to fundamentally transform institutions , does n't manage to fundamentally transform American democracy , maybe you 'll say it was no big deal that Joe Biden paved the way for Donald Trump . I think that he accomplished so many things that have receded into memory incredibly quickly . His management of Covid , which , look , there were problems with , but it was kind of a miracle that within six months of coming into office , you were able to stroll into a CVS or Walgreens and get a shot that would save your life . Trump gets some credit for Operation Warp Speed , but the execution was the really challenging part , and he nailed that . You know , we 'll see what happens to the Inflation Reduction Act , which could be the significant boost to a green economy , but it could also be demolished by the Trump administration . There are all of these accomplishments that kind of hang in the balance that depend on implementation and execution , and he 's not going to be the guy implementing and executing them . His political enemy will be . And I 'm not sure how that 's going to work out . <p> David Chalian <p> 00:16:01 <p> Franklin Foer , thanks so much for your time . I really appreciate it . <p> Franklin Foer <p> 00:16:03 <p> My pleasure . <p> David Chalian <p> 00:16:06 <p> ' That 's it for this week 's edition of the CNN Political Briefing . We want to hear from you . Is there a question you 'd like answered about the new Trump administration ? Is there a guest you really want to hear from ? Give us a call at ( 202 ) 618-9460 . Or send us an email at **30;1279;TOOLONG . And you might just be featured in a future episode of the podcast , so do n't forget to tell us your name , where you 're from , how we can reach you , and if you give us permission to use the recording on the podcast . CNN Political Briefing is a production of CNN Audio . This episode was produced by Emily Williams . Our senior producer is Felicia Patinkin . Dan Dzula is our Technical Director , and Steve Lickteig is the Executive Producer of CNN Audio . Support from Alex Manasseri , Robert Mathers , Jon Dianora , Leni Steinhardt , Jamus Andrest , Nichole Pesaru , and Lisa Namerow . Special thanks to Katie Hinman . This show is taking a break over the holidays . We 'll be back with a new episode on January 10th . Thanks so much for listening to the CNN Political Briefing this year , wishing you and your families a very happy holiday and start to the new year . 
@@119109023 <p> A Polish minister said the country would comply with the International Criminal Court 's ( ICC ) arrest warrant against Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu if he attended a Holocaust Memorial Event at Auschwitz . <p> Anonymous Polish diplomats told the outlet that they could not be seen to impose a double standard on the value of ICC arrest warrants . " We hope that Vladimir Putin will finally appear before the ICC . That is why we must abide by the Tribunal 's decisions , " they said . <p> Israeli officials did not contact the Polish government about whether Netanyahu could attend the event , according to the outlet . Yitzhak Herzog , the President of Israel , will likely also not be at the ceremony . Israel may only be represented at the event by Foreign Minister Gideon Sa'ar despite Jews having been the majority of the victims at Auschwitz . <p> The ICC issued arrest warrants against Netanyahu and his then-Defense Minister Yoav Gallant back on Nov. 21 . The two were alleged to be responsible for " the war crime of starvation as a method of warfare ; and the crimes against humanity of murder , persecution , and other inhumane acts . " These allegations were in regard to the Israel-Hamas war in the Gaza Strip . <p> Israeli leaders have rejected these allegations . The country also disputes the jurisdiction of the court over its own citizens , the New York Sun reported . Israel is not a signatory to the Rome Statute , which established the ICC . However , Palestine is a member of the organization . The international court argued that the Gaza Strip , where Israeli forces are fighting a war against Hamas , is part of Palestine and therefore under their jurisdiction . <p> . ? @NewYorkSun ? my Friday column : even before Bibi said he 'd attend the 80th anniversary of Auschwitz liberation , Poland leaps to claim he 'd be arrested if comes to commemorate the killing of 1 million Jews at the death camp https : //t.co/FEpXmwQxhx <p> Alan Dershowitz , a renowned attorney , observed that the ICC 's warrants against Israel could create precedent used against the United States . " Remember , the United States refused to sign the treaty , the Rome Treaty , that established the International Criminal Court . Israel refused to sign the treaty . Where does an international court get the power , any power at all , over people who did n't sign on to a treaty ? It 's unthinkable , " he said . <p> Poland has been a member of NATO since 1999 , according to the international organization 's website . <h> What does Founders Club include ? <p> Readers , <p> Instead of sucking up to the political and corporate powers that dominate America , The Daily Caller is fighting for you -- our readers . We humbly ask you to consider joining us in this fight . <p> Now that millions of readers are rejecting the increasingly biased and even corrupt corporate media and joining us daily , there are powerful forces lined up to stop us : the old guard of the news media hopes to marginalize us ; the big corporate ad agencies want to deprive us of revenue and put us out of business ; senators threaten to have our reporters arrested for asking simple questions ; the big tech platforms want to limit our ability to communicate with you ; and the political party establishments feel threatened by our independence . <p> We do n't complain -- we ca n't stand complainers -- but we do call it how we see it . We have a fight on our hands , and it 's intense . We need your help to smash through the big tech , big media and big government blockade . <p> We 're the insurgent outsiders for a reason : our deep-dive investigations hold the powerful to account . Our original videos undermine their narratives on a daily basis . Even our insistence on having fun infuriates them -- because we wo n't bend the knee to political correctness . <p> One reason we stand apart is because we are not afraid to say we love America . We love her with every fiber of our being , and we think she 's worth saving from today 's craziness . <p> Help us save her . <p> A second reason we stand out is the sheer number of honest responsible reporters we have helped train . We have trained so many solid reporters that they now hold prominent positions at publications across the political spectrum . Hear a rare reasonable voice at a place like CNN ? There 's a good chance they were trained at Daily Caller . Same goes for the numerous Daily Caller alumni dominating the news coverage at outlets such as Fox News , Newsmax , Daily Wire and many others . <p> Simply put , America needs solid reporters fighting to tell the truth or we will never have honest elections or a fair system . We are working tirelessly to make that happen and we are making a difference . <p> Since 2010 , The Daily Caller has grown immensely . We 're in the halls of Congress . We 're in the Oval Office . And we 're in up to 20 million homes every single month . That 's 20 million Americans like you who are impossible to ignore . <p> We can overcome the forces lined up against all of us . This is an important mission but we ca n't do it unless you -- the everyday Americans forgotten by the establishment -- have our back . <p> Please consider becoming a Daily Caller Patriot today , and help us keep doing work that holds politicians , corporations and other leaders accountable . Help us thumb our noses at political correctness . Help us train a new generation of news reporters who will actually tell the truth . And help us remind Americans everywhere that there are millions of us who remain clear-eyed about our country 's greatness . <p> In return for membership , Daily Caller Patriots will be able to read The Daily Caller without any of the ads that we have long used to support our mission . We know the ads drive you crazy . They drive us crazy too . But we need revenue to keep the fight going . If you join us , we will cut out the ads for you and put every Lincoln-headed cent we earn into amplifying our voice , training even more solid reporters , and giving you the ad-free experience and lightning fast website you deserve . <p> Patriots will also be eligible for Patriots Only content , newsletters , chats and live events with our reporters and editors . It 's simple : welcome us into your lives , and we 'll welcome you into ours . 
@@119121426 <h> The Best Documentaries of 2024 <p> Courtesy of Netflix / HBO / Sundance Institute <p> Reality does n't bite . Well , okay , at times it does . A number of our choices for the best documentaries of the year capture turbulent realities , ominous politics , and , on occasion , stark tragedy . That 's one of the missions of nonfiction film : to put us in touch with dark things that are too often hidden away . But our list casts a wider net than that . It includes tales of hope and daring , of fighting back , of art and inspiration , of the heroism of ordinary people ... and extraordinary people . What the best documentaries of 2024 add up to is nothing less than a feast of reality . <h> The Antisocial Network : Memes to Mayhem <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of SXSW <p> An indispensible lesson in digital history that tracks the creation and rise of 4Chan -- the online universe where outrageous satires , the bro anarchy of " Jackass " stunts , and a free-floating impotent political rage fused into an " outlaw " stance of permanent rebellion . But the movie also captures how 4Chan spawned QAnon , and considering the significance of QAnon ( i.e. , the fact that half the country now thinks batshit psychotic fantasy scenarios are the essence of reality ) , it 's shocking to see that its creation was essentially a fluke . The conspiracy theory that became Pizzagate was created as a goof ; then people started to believe it . " The Antisocial Network " captures how the hackers and programmers of 4Chan wanted eyeballs and would do anything to get them . QAnon brainwashed the nation , but in its way it was the fulfillment of their viral dream . -- Owen Gleiberman <h> Bad Faith : Christian Nationalism 's Unholy War on Democracy <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of Panarea Productions <p> The scariest and most penetrating political documentary of the year , though the media mostly ignored it . It captures how Donald Trump , in the time he has spent setting himself up to be an authoritarian leader , fashioned himself into a president who could mesh perfectly with the goals of Christian nationalism , a movement built around the dream of transforming America into a theocracy . The film 's directors , Stephen Uljaki and Chris Jones , go deep into the roots of this crusade , which believes not only in trashing democracy but in undermining the very concept of free will that 's at the heart of Christian theology . The movement 's goal is a nation ruled by a higher power than the Constitution -- ruled by the will of God , as interpreted by His white Christian followers . -- OG <h> The Bibi Files <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of TIFF <p> An extraordinary expos ? of how Benjamin Netanyahu has prolonged the war in Gaza to escape his own corruption scandal . Alexis Bloom 's riveting film is built around leaked tapes of the interrogation of Netanyahu by police . He 's as sly an actor as he is ruthless an autocrat . The movie is about how the accusations Netanyahu has been trying to squirm out from under since 2019 , when he was first indicted on charges of bribery , fraud , and breach of trust , have changed his identity as a politician . Bloom makes a powerful case that Netanyahu 's alliance with the far-right fringe of Israeli politics , which has culminated in his grotesque compulsion to prolong the massacre in Gaza with no end in sight , has been driven almost entirely by his fear of being toppled and imprisoned , to the point that he 's willing to rip a hole in Israeli society to avoid it . -- OG <h> Black Box Diaries <p> Image Credit : Courtesy image <p> Shiori Ito 's tightly wound , heart-on-the-sleeve procedural documentary takes place over the course of five years , during which Ito , a Japanese journalist , tracks her arduous struggle to bring to justice the older , more powerful man who sexually assaulted her -- the renowned TV reporter Noriyuki Yamaguchi , whose friends in high places included the prime minister . The film switches between modes of formal investigation and first-hand confessional , as archival footage blends into candid conversational iPhone videos and audio recordings . Without undue manipulation or sentimentality , the film pulls our emotions in sharp extremes that mirror the peaks and valleys of this hard-fought case . -- Guy Lodge <h> Catching Fire : The Story of Anita Pallenberg <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of Magnolia Pictures <p> It 's a portrait of the legendary rock ' n ' roll scenester that captures her glamour and artistry . Svetlana Zill and Alexis Bloom 's film is most indelible , though , in laying bare the destructive underbelly of the rock counterculture . The filmmakers celebrate everything that made Anita Pallenberg a feminine force ahead of her time -- one of those Olympian women of the ' 60s who strode into a room and commanded it . But they also show you that she and Keith Richards had a complex relationship that was a crazy doom spiral . In addition to Pallenberg 's unpublished memoir , the film is built around a towering archive of home-movie footage , so that we feel we 're right there with Anita and Keith . We experience the sweet tranquility of lives being lived , but also the trail of wreckage they left . One of the darkest portraits of the rock world ever made , the movie captures how Pallenberg 's willingness to push everything to the edge and over it was inextricable from her cracked glamour . -- OG <h> Dahomey <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of MUBI <p> Mati Diop 's exquisitely strange film is a meditation on the return of looted artifacts to Benin . Diop , the director of " Atlantics , " has made a dreamlike , discursive , fantasy-inflected foray into the wildly contested issues surrounding the restitution of treasures stolen by colonial powers . The film starts in the basement level of the Parisian Mus ? e du Quai Branly , where several of the artifacts , including a wooden statue of King Gezo , who ruled the kingdom of Dahomey in the mid-1800s , and whose pose looks irresistibly like he 's giving a Black Power salute , are being packed up ready for transportation . Then , suddenly , we 're hearing the thoughts of statue-Gezo himself , as he contemplates his long years of captivity . His words flavor the film with a mysterious unease , as every celebratory impulse about the artifacts ' return is complicated by a far greater ambivalence about whether actual redress can ever be made . -- Jessica Kiang <h> Daughters <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of Netflix <p> Natalie Rae and Angela Patton 's moving film follows four girls -- Aubrey Smith , 5 , Santana Stewart , 10 , Ja'Ana Crudup , 11 , and Raziah Lewis , 15 -- as they head toward an encounter with their imprisoned fathers . Patton is the founder of Girls for Change , the organization that launched its Date with Dad program 12 years earlier . As the day nears when the men will attend a dance and luncheon in the repurposed prison gymnasium , reunited with the daughters they 've been separated from , the film creates visually lyrical moments that connect viewers with the young ones ' sorrows , fears , insights , and hopes . And when the dance arrives , it does not disappoint . The filmmakers suture wounds , but they also make the familial and cultural scars apparent . The movie adds depth and dimension to stories of incarceration , even as it remains both the daughters ' story and their keepsake. -- Lisa Kennedy <h> Elizabeth Taylor : The Lost Tapes <p> Image Credit : Courtesy Everett Collection <p> There 's now a whole genre of celebrity documentary built around the playing of old analog tape recordings . Nanette Burstein 's luscious and enveloping portrait is based on interviews that Elizabeth Taylor did with the journalist Richard Meryman , starting in 1964 , for a book he was researching , and Taylor 's voice is singular in its expressiveness -- she is insolent , mournful , sexy , outraged , dripping with debauched delight , and always casually candid . Her words invest even the most familiar events with a revealing intimacy . " The Lost Tapes " shows us how Taylor 's life became a mythology , especially when her romance with Richard Burton got elevated into a global love story , as the two became the first celebrities to see their private lives played out in the new international mass media ( the idea of " paparazzi " literally came into being around them ) . The film is filled with astonishing clips of the private and public Liz , which cue you to see how expressive her beauty was , and what an array of moods she possessed . -- OG <h> Ennio <p> Image Credit : Venice International Film Festival <p> Ennio Morricone , the maestro of the movie soundtrack , gets the entrancing documentary he deserves . It 's a 156-minute portrait built around an extensive interview with Morricone , conducted when he was in his late 80s ( it also includes comments from a murderers ' row of filmmakers and artists ) . The film captures how he scaled his own wild peak , inventing his own kind of beauty , his own transcendent cacophony . Yet you would never have guessed it to look at him . He had the aura of a young professor , or maybe a tax accountant . And the more we hear his music , in all its fabulous and voluptuous eclecticism ( the swooning pop songs ; the spaghetti Western scores that sounded like ghostly Mexican rock ' n ' roll frontier acid trips ; the political-drama soundtracks for films like " The Battle of Algiers " that were as charged-up as the revolutions they were about ; the transcendent romanticism that infused his beloved later work ) , the more we have the same thought : Where did it come from ? " Ennio " devotes itself to Morricone 's music , but it 's also a study of his mischievously self-serious personality . He was channeling something , maybe nothing less than the mystery of cinema . -- OG <h> Eno <p> Image Credit : Courtesy Sundance Film Festival <p> Gary Hustwit 's groundbreaking film uses generative software to reorder itself with each viewing . Hustwit fills in the legend of Brian Eno , the **39;3171;TOOLONG , by echoing the spirit of his art in the film 's very form . Eno started out , in Roxy Music , as a delicate sci-fi gamine , a glam geek in thrift-shop drag . As he began to create his solo albums , he held onto his image as pop 's harlequin eccentric , a mystique that carried over to his fabled work as a producer with Davie Bowie , Talking Heads , Devo , U2 , and Coldplay . As a documentary , " Eno " is sleek , seamless , and compelling , though one of the reasons it feels that way is that Hustwit , drawing on 500 hours of film and video from Eno 's personal archives , has made a movie that 's all Brian Eno . As a talking head , he turns out to be a brainy but also funny and grounded middle-class British chap with great stories to tell . The film uses his observations to fuse his present and past in a way that accentuates their musical and spiritual continuity . -- OG <h> Ernest Cole : Lost and Found <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of Cannes Film Festival <p> Raoul Peck 's haunting film rediscovers the fearless South African photographer who showed the world what apartheid looked like -- what it was -- in his 1967 book " House of Bondage . " But after moving to New York City , he became a ghost . Cole 's photographs take up the entire film , and they 're a revelation to revel in . His street scenes are v ? rit ? dioramas , psychological portraits of life inside a caste system . He caught the underlying violence of apartheid , and that made him a celebrated figure . But wandering through New York with his camera , chronicling a freedom unlike anything he 'd ever known , it was n't a freedom he felt he could totally join . The movie chronicles his descent , but it also turns into a detective thriller , as it follows the process of discovery when negatives of 60,000 of his photographs that had never been seen were found in three safety-deposit boxes in a bank vault in Stockholm . ( No one knows how they go there . ) Watching " Lost and Found , " you 're moved by a life that veered into tragedy , but by the end you feel the ghost is speaking to you . -- OG <h> The Greatest Night in Pop <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of Sundance Film Festival <p> A documentary for anyone who loves " We Are the World , " or even for those of us who look at that legendary charity single with some serious questions but are fascinated by the phenomenon of it . The movie puts us backstage at the into-the-night session that took place at A&amp;M Recording Studios in Los Angeles immediately after the American Music Awards on January 28 , 1985 . In a sense , " We Are the World " always was a documentary -- the famous music video that captured the song as it was being recorded , and was also a kind of **27;3212;TOOLONG psychodrama in miniature . And Bao Nguyen 's film allows us to revel in that vibe and extend it . With Lionel Richie as its chief nostalgist and tour guide , the film is certainly " celebratory , " but it 's also honestly assembled and intensely pleasurable . It pulls back the curtain on the perpetual smoke screen of music-god fame . -- OG <h> How to Come Alive with Norman Mailer <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of Zeitgeist Films/Film Forum <p> Norman Mailer is the kind of writer people now tend to look at and appraise by saying , " He could never get away with that today . " He was feeding the fire of controversy and provocation 50 and 60 years ago , yet it was all part of his mission to make a difference in his time , to wake us all up . Jeff Zimbalist 's film captures the majesty of the Mailer experience , and its dark side too . It channels Mailer the writer , the celebrity , the failure , the boozing-and-drugging underworld-of-the- ' 50s searcher , the culture warrior , the literary comingler of fiction and reality , the filmmaker , the serial husband and paterfamilias , the talk-show firebrand , the self-dramatizing hoodlum who stabbed his wife ... and the obsessive artist who wrote sentences so lyrical in their perception that they could change your imagination . The film looks at Mailer with a supreme fusion of understanding and critical wisdom . -- OG <h> Look Into My Eyes <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of Sundance <p> Director Lana Wilson meets a diverse group of New York City psychics and clairvoyants , perceiving them closely enough that believing them is beside the point . The result is a funny , compassionate portrait that 's most interested in how these allegedly second-sighted folk function on an everyday basis , and what drives ordinary people of different persuasions to seek out their services . The seven psychics Wilson has assembled to interview and observe are a diverse group -- four of them women , three men ; four people of color , three white -- with an equally varied range of approaches to their calling , from New Age-y solemnity to fairground-style showmanship and sparkle . The film walks a deft line between the ironic and the honestly receptive : Hardline skeptics will be entertained , others peculiarly affected . Yet you need n't have a firm stance on the afterlife and its accessibility to be tickled by a pet medium bragging that she could diagnose a cat 's urinary tract infection through sheer telepathy . Wilson 's film suggests that communing with the dead may just be a roundabout way of reaching the living . -- GL <h> Martha <p> Image Credit : Getty Images <p> R.J. Cutler 's terrific film taps into everything we love , and do n't , about Martha Stewart . It takes us through her rise and fall and rise , a transfixing saga enhanced by Cutler 's ongoing meditation on The Meaning of Martha . The film captures how Stewart 's penetration into American culture seems , in hindsight , as inevitable as it was unlikely . It traces how she started off as a model , then became a New York stockbroker , then moved with her publishing-magnate husband to Westport , Conn. , where they bought a fixer-upper , Turkey Hill Farm , whose fixing up , by Martha ( she hand-painted the entire house while listening to the Watergate hearings ) , became the prototype for her brand of obsessively tasteful " perfection . " The movie shows us that Stewart had a vision , which turned her into the first self-made woman billionaire in America . Yet what she created and marketed was the idea of a high-powered homemaker for women who no longer wanted to be homemakers . She showed you all the good things you could aspire to , but she helped establish the aspirational culture of the 21st century as a certain unattainable proxy dream thing . In a way , she put a turkey in puff pastry so you did n't have to . -- OG <h> Nocturnes <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of Grasshopper Film <p> A hypnotic documentary about moths , one that unfolds to reveal vital climate-change concerns . In northeastern India , scientist Mangi Mungee and her indigenous assistant partake in the nightly ritual of suspending a cloth sheet and illuminating it with the bright lights in the middle of a forest . Slowly but surely , hundreds of moths flock to this makeshift station , so that Mansi can observe , photograph , and eventually measure them . Fluttering wings and the echoes of trilling insects make up much of the serene soundscape , as the movie observes the moths from a distance but also creates aesthetic connections between their lives and ours , in ways we need to lean forward to observe and understand . -- Siddhant Adlakha <h> No Other Land <p> Image Credit : Courtesy Berlinale <p> A frank , devastating protest against Israel 's West Bank occupation . The young Palestinian lawyer and activist Basel Adra is a resident of Masafer Yatta , a network of Palestinian villages in the Southern Hebron Hills , recently subject to an aggressive campaign of demolition and forced transfer by the Israeli army . As his community is literally bulldozed before his eyes , Adra has little scope to do anything but keep his camera on . " I have nothing else , only my phone , " he despairs . That , thankfully , is not nothing . In this shattering documentary , Adra 's witnessing becomes ours . The film presents horrifying footage with candid sangfroid , contributing little commentary where the images speak for themselves . " No Other Land " might be called timely , though through its years-spanning depiction of both the mortal danger and mental strain of living under occupation , it underlines a situation that has been at crisis point for a long time . The filmmaking is tight and considered , with nimble editing ( by Adra and his co-directors , Yuval Abraham , Hamdan Ballal , and Rachel Szor ) that captures the sense of time at once passing and looping back on itself . -- GL <h> Plastic People <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of SXSW <p> An essential examination of how plastic is literally invading us all . We 've long known that it 's bad for the environment , but Ben Addelman and Ziya Tong 's movie documents what it 's doing to our bodies . The film focuses in on the issue of how microplastics -- plastic particles that are less than 5mm in length , though the key ones may be microscopic -- have invaded our food , our water , our air , and ourselves , toxifying us from within . ( It presents powerful evidence that plastic is a major contributor to rising infertility levels . ) It also offers a fascinating history of how plastic evolved in the 20th century and gradually took over , with Big Oil and Big Plastic now joined at the hip . In its way , " Plastic People " is a cautionary horror movie . It could have been called " Attack of the Killer Polymers . " -- OG <h> Skywalkers : A Love Story <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of Sundance Film Festival <p> Jeff Zimbalist 's extraordinary film about rooftoppers , who scale the tallest skyscrapers in the world and then climb onto the splindly curved spires that shoot out the tops of those buildings , is a vertigo-inducing spellbinder . But it 's also a profound story of love and trust and dread and transcendence in an age when romantic entanglement has become a daredevil sport . The film provides the kind of high on getting high that " Free Solo " and " The Dawn Wall " did , though this one conjures even more of a " Whoa " factor , as it follows two rooftoppers from Moscow , Vanya Beerkus and Angela Nikolau , who are drawn together by their impulse to elevate risk into a kind of controlled madness . By the time they 're scaling the Merdeka 188 in Kualua Lumpur , Malaysia ( if they 're caught they 'll go to prison ) , all to stage a feat in which Vanya will stand atop a girder and hold Angela up to the sky , the film has elevated " Do n't try this at home " to a new level of awesome . -- OG <h> Soundtrack to a Coup d'Etat <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of Zap-O-Matik <p> Telling the story of the Congolese leader Patrick Lumumba , who was assassinated in 1961 , and juxtaposing that political scandal -- it has long been alleged that the CIA was involved -- with a musical tour by Louis Armstrong and the expansion of the UN after many African countries declared independence in the 1960s , might seem to be a tall order . But the writer-director Johan Grimonprez brings it all off with astonishing success . This is politics as grand spectacle and ironic comedy : an entertaining and instructive documentary that masterfully explains a complicated historical moment . The film shows us how a popular African leader was killed in a coup d'etat , so that colonial powers could keep profiting from his country 's mineral wealth . But it all plays out against the rhythms of American jazz , a counterpoint that reflects how the musicians were used by the State Department to deflect from Lumumba 's murder , but one that also allows the movie to ebb and flow in complicated ways , finding a rhythm all its own . -- Murtada Elfadl <h> Sugarcane <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of Sundance Institute <p> It 's likely that many non-Indigenous people knew nothing about the abuse and disappearances of Native American children that occurred over decades in residential Indian schools throughout North America -- at least , until those outages inspired a wrenching subplot on the Taylor Sheridan TV series " 1923 . " But the truth behind that fact-based fiction is even more shocking . " Sugarcane " is an enlightening , infuriating look at the horrors that were endemic at the now-shuttered St. Joseph 's Mission in British Columbia . The school was one of many state-supported institutions that dealt with " the Indian problem " by brainwashing children into forgoing their Native languages and customs and becoming acceptably assimilated . The movie details how students died while trying to escape , or by committing suicide , and we hear daunting tales of priests sexually abusing students . The survivors of St. Joseph 's dredge up memories they 've obviously long sought to suppress , and " Sugarcane " is the product of humane and insightful filmmakers who are determined to never let anyone forget . -- Joe Leydon <h> Super/Man : The Christopher Reeve Story <p> Christopher Reeve gave the greatest performance as a comic-book superhero in movie history . And it 's partly because Reeve was so indelible as Superman that what happened to him on May 27 , 1995 , felt so singular in its devastation . As everyone knows , Reeve was thrown from a horse during an equestrian competition and landed on his neck , which resulted in his being paralyzed from the shoulders down . " Super/Man " is a moving , wrenching , compellingly well-made documentary that inevitably ends up centering on Reeve 's accident and its aftermath . ( He died in 2004 . ) It was Reeve 's fate to spend the rest of his life using a wheelchair and a respirator , and there 's an extraordinary drama to how he recovered from the cataclysm , learning to breathe and talk and , more than that , rehabilitating his life force . We see , with aching honesty , how challenging his existence became ( just getting Reeve to the 1996 Oscars was a logistical feat ) . Yet we also see how the love of his wife Dana , his children , and his friends , like Robin Williams , gave him the strength to transcend . What happened to Reeve was a tragedy , but it 's one that became a parable . As " Super/Man " tells it , it begins with the thought " There but for the grace of God go I " and ends with " It 's a wonderful life . " -- OG <h> Taking Venice <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of Zeitgeist Films <p> Amei Wallach 's highly enjoyable and revealing documentary is about a legendary uproar in the art world . The film chronicles what happened at the 1964 Venice Biennale , when the U.S. mounted a campaign of " cultural diplomacy " in the hopes that one of its own artists -- Robert Rauschenberg -- would win the grand prize . The U.S. wanted to use art as a proxy to assert its global dominance , and to fight the Cold War . Yet the event also marked a paradigm shift : the overthrow of Paris as the center of the art world , and the movement toward a new age in which New York and its freewheeling American stars ( Rauschenberg , Jasper Johns , Jackson Pollock , and Andy Warhol ) would now hold sway . ( The Harvey Weinstein Oscar machine of the ' 90s would have approved . ) " Taking Venice " captures the moment when the art world , in thrall to the electricity of the new Americans , changed its spots . You could say that the U.S. , at the Biennale , engaged in art-world propaganda . But another way to look at it is : Has there ever been a more righteous U.S. propaganda campaign ? We were backing the right horse , and for the right reason . It was the one with the most beauty . -- OG <h> Uncropped <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of Greenwich Entertainment <p> An enticing portrait of James Hamilton that makes you wonder : Is he the greatest New York photographer ever ? D.W. Young 's documentary gets you hooked on the work of the legendary Village Voice and Harper 's Bazaar shutterbug , whose images are a miracle of spontaneous classicism . Hamilton 's black-and-white photographs -- in the documentary , we see hundreds of them -- have a burnished tactility , and a psychology so effortless that every one of them tells a story . He should have been far more famous -- a household name , like Weegee or Diane Arbus or Annie Liebovitz . Yet part of the fascination of " Uncropped " is that it shows you that Hamilton did n't run his career that way . He was and is that rare thing , a lifelong bohemian . In the documentary , we see him wandering through Washington Square Park , tall , with a shock of white hair , always with his camera . " Uncropped " takes us back to the world before publicists , when a photographer like Hamilton could hang out for hours in a hotel room with Duane Allman , capturing his dissolute hedonism , or with Alfred Hitchcock , who produced a grin for him unlike that seen in any other Hitchcock photograph . -- OG <h> Will &amp; Harper <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of Netflix <p> Structured as an on-camera road trip between two longtime friends , fueled by laughs and tears and the occasional " Borat " -style stunt , " Will &amp; Harper " gives us a chance to meet the former " Saturday Night Live " writer Harper Steele , who befriended Will Ferrell when he first joined the show , believing in the crazy cut-up when others were still skeptical of his talent . Technically , Ferrell is meeting her for the first time too , since Steele spent the first six decades of her life as a man . After receiving a long , vulnerable coming-out email from Steele describing her decision to transition at 61 , Ferrell suggested that they travel the country together -- just Will and Harper and a decent-sized crew ( which manages to stay off-camera the whole way ) . Stretching from New York City to the Santa Monica Pier , with stops at redneck bars and diners and dirt track races , the physical journey gives the old friends a chance to catch up and talk through all aspects of Steele 's emotional journey . Struggling to recognize her own beauty in a society that often seems determined to deny her identity altogether , Steele brings the trans experience down to earth . And by accepting his fledgling gal pal on her own terms , Ferrell sets the best kind of example . We should all be so lucky as to have friends like these . -- Peter Debruge <h> Wise Guy : David Chase and the Sopranos <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of Max <p> Overflowing with insight ; stuffed with revelatory interviews and anecdotes and archival footage ; as bursting with flavor as a baked ziti ; and as immersive , in its way , as the series itself , Alex Gibney 's two-hour-and-40-minute film is a sensationally artful and engrossing look at the greatest show in the history of television . It 's framed as a profile of the show 's visionary creator and showrunner , David Chase , who is interviewed by Gibney on a mock-up of the set of Dr. Melfi 's psychiatrist office , a joke/stunt that recedes into the background yet never loses its playful resonance , since it pings off the way that " The Sopranos , " for Chase , was a kind of therapy . For him , even talking about the show , analyzing its secret sauce , is offered up with a certain gnomic reticence . ( Within that , the disarmingly sincere and at times ruthlessly blunt Chase is actually something of an open book . ) The movie shows us how Chase got his shot language from ' 70s movies , and how James Gandolfini 's audition left the other actors in the dust the way Brando left the entire studio system in the dust . There was a child alive inside Tony Soprano that was central to what we responded to in him , and maybe that child was alive in Gandolfini as well . One of the documentary 's most haunting insights is how the entire series evolved in tandem with Gandolfini sinking into the life force of Tony 's darkness . " Wise Guy " is a thrilling testament to how " The Sopranos " changed television forever and , in doing so , changed us. -- OG <h> Zurawski v Texas <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of Hiddenlight Productions <p> An unflinching , cumulatively disquieting look at the fight over Texas 's newly restrictive abortion laws . It charts the legal battle that 's being waged against the state , which almost completely banned abortions on the heels of the Supreme Court 's overturning of Roe v. Wade , albeit with some exemptions for life-threatening conditions . But as the film 's directors , Maisie Crowe and Abbie Perrault , spell out , the exemption law is so ambiguous that doctors are left in the dark about whether they can legally provide abortions to their patients . At the center of the film is Molly Duane , the tireless Center for Reproductive Rights attorney whose multi-pronged lawsuit extends from local courtrooms to the Texas Supreme Court . We witness the traumas of patients who become Duane 's clients , notably lead plaintiff Amanda Zurawski , who nearly died when her water broke just 18 weeks into her pregnancy . ( Her doctors did n't perform the medically vital abortion she should have gotten , forcing her to wait until she became septic . ) With its insistence on prioritizing individual stories over cold talking points , the film , which counts Hillary and Chelsea Clinton and Jennifer Lawrence among its executive producers , powerfully argues that abortion access should n't be a left or right issue but a bipartisan matter . -- Tomris Laffly 
@@119137232 <h> Staring at America <p> Photographs and Text by Taryn Simon <p> undefined <p> For six months this year , Taryn Simon followed the political vapor trail to document the people , spaces and objects central to the 2024 presidential campaigns . Ms. Simon , who works at a distance from the daily news cycle , examines our distracted national gaze and desires , letting us pause and look at what we all experienced . " You ca n't see anything reflected in boiling water . But when it 's still , water is a mirror , " she said . " It 's still in the anticipation , and it 's still in the aftermath . But we 're told to watch when it 's boiling . " <p> Ms. Simon traveled to many locations , including Springfield , Ohio , to find the cat at the center of the false claims about the town 's Haitian immigrants ; to Feasterville-Trevose , Pa. , to photograph French fries from the McDonald 's where Donald Trump held a campaign event ; and to Merritt Island , Fla. , for the launch of one of Elon Musk 's SpaceX rockets . <p> Ms. Simon said she sees her work as " a shaky hand holding a spotlight . These photographs mark where the light landed -- what we chose as a nation to give our attention to . And I guess this attention and where it was given defines who we are and what we will end up being . " <p> 01Republican National ConventionMilwaukee <p> Mr. Trump made his first public appearance at the Republican National Convention just two days after a gunman tried to kill him at a rally in Butler , Pa . In a speech accepting the party 's nomination for president three days later , he said , " The amazing thing is that prior to the shot , if I had not moved my head at that very last instant , the assassin 's bullet would have perfectly hit its mark , and I would not be here tonight . We would not be together . " He added , " I stand before you in this arena only by the grace of Almighty God . " <p> **32;984;TOOLONG , Pa . <p> Mr. Trump dunked a basket of fries in oil , salted them , scooped them into containers and handed orders to drive-through customers at a McDonald 's in Pennsylvania 16 days before the election . He often deploys fast food at public events and on social media . He served Big Macs at the White House and to Mr. Musk , Donald Trump Jr . and Robert F. Kennedy Jr . on his private plane . <p> 03Wanda KaganMontreal <p> Wanda Kagan and Kamala Harris first met at a Black community center in Montreal . During her campaign for the presidency , Ms. Harris frequently spoke of rescuing Ms. Kagan from a sexually abusive home when they were in high school and providing a safe place for her to live . <p> 04Fox News HeadquartersNew York City <p> Fox News media reaches a monthly audience of nearly 200 million . Fox News was the No. 1 cable news channel on television this year and the most watched network in every swing state . On election night , it had more prime-time viewers than ABC , CBS , NBC , MSNBC and CNN . It is the only cable outlet whose audience has grown since the election . <p> 05Capitol Police HeadquartersWashington , D.C. <p> The United States Capitol Police is responsible for protecting the legislative branch of government . After the Jan. 6 attack on the Capitol , the agency increased the number of officers trained in civil disturbance tactics , expanded intelligence capabilities and updated its standard-issue riot gear to address vulnerabilities amid growing threats to Congress . <p> 06Thomas CavanaughMilwaukee <p> Mr. Cavanaugh is a student protester who converted to Islam in March . He confronted Ms. Harris about her stance on Gaza , calling Israel 's actions genocide , at a closed-door campaign event at the University of Wisconsin , Milwaukee . After the interruption she said , " Listen , what he 's talking about , it 's real . " Many saw her response as agreement . Her campaign team later said , " She did n't agree with defining the war as a genocide , and she has not expressed such a stance in the past , as this is not her position . " <p> 07Election WarehousePhiladelphia <p> The 727,595 ballots cast in Philadelphia County were received -- some in sealed containers with red tags -- sorted , tabulated and stored at a 230,000-square-foot facility that was once home to a Bible printing plant . Ms. Harris and Mr. Trump visited Pennsylvania 33 times in the three months leading up to the election . <p> 08Cowboy Kamala Sash and Cowboy Carter Incense <p> During the four days of the Democratic National Convention , delegates from Washington State wore " Cowboy Kamala " sashes and hats with flashing lights modeled after Beyonc ? ' s " Cowboy Carter " album cover . Beyonc ? later appeared with Ms. Harris at a rally in Texas . Mr. Trump , who was holding a rally at the same time in Michigan , said to the audience , " Kamala is at a dance party with Beyonc ? . " <p> 09Miss SassySpringfield , Ohio <p> A Springfield resident reportedly told police that she thought her Haitian neighbors had stolen her cat , Miss Sassy , and chopped her up . JD Vance used a police report to justify his claim that Haitian immigrants were abducting and eating people 's pets . Local officials noted there was no evidence to support this claim . <p> 10Representative Jasmine Crockett 's Eyelashes <p> At a congressional hearing held after hours , Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene demeaned Representative Jasmine Crockett 's appearance , saying , " I think your fake eyelashes are messing up what you 're reading . " Seeking clarification on House rules about remarks on " personality , " Ms. Crockett asked if it would be acceptable to comment on " somebody 's bleach blond , bad-built butch body . " Ms. Greene went on to campaign for Mr. Trump , and Ms. Crockett campaigned for Ms. Harris . <p> Ms. Crockett 's lashes are individually sewn on by a lash technician . She keeps a pair of false lashes ( shown here ) on hand in case of emergency . <p> 11SpaceX Dragon LaunchNASA Kennedy Space Center , Merritt Island , Fla . <p> Mr. Musk 's SpaceX Dragon launched into space the night before the election . Its mission was to deliver food , supplies and equipment to the International Space Station crew . The payload also included Antarctic moss for an experiment to observe the effects of cosmic radiation and microgravity on plants and their survival in space . In his victory speech , Mr. Trump , commenting on Mr. Musk , said , " Oh , let me tell you , we have a new star . A star is born , Elon . " <p> 12The YardHoward University , Washington , D.C. <p> Damaris Moore , Miss Howard University , sang the national anthem to the crowd of Harris supporters on election night who were anticipating the vice president 's arrival . They watched live performances and speeches while results rolled in on outdoor screens displaying CNN . Ms. Harris did not appear until the next day , when she gave her concession speech . <p> Taryn Simon is a visual artist who uses photography , sculpture , text , sound and performance for her projects , which center on storytelling , secrecy and the hidden contours of power . Her work has been exhibited and is in the collections of the Guggenheim in New York , the Tate Modern in London , the Centre Pompidou in Paris and the Neue Nationalgalerie in Berlin , among others . 
@@119137524 <h> Houthis fire a missile at Tel Aviv ; Israeli strikes kill several children in Gaza <p> The ballistic missile , named " Palestine 2 , " landed in Tel Aviv 's Jaffa district , according to the Israeli military . Houthi rebels said the attack was in response to " the massacres against our brothers in Gaza . " <p> A missile launched from Yemen struck the Israeli city of Tel Aviv early Saturday morning , marking a rare instance of a failed interception over the city . <p> The attack came just hours after seven children were killed in northern Gaza on Friday after Israeli airstrikes struck a house in Jabaliya , Palestinian civil defense said , as Israel continues its offensive after 15 months of war that has spilled over into the region . <p> Yemen 's Iran-backed Houthi forces claimed responsibility after the strike , announcing that they had launched a hypersonic ballistic missile named " Palestine 2 " at an Israeli military site in the Jaffa area . <p> " The missile hit its target accurately and the defense and interception systems failed to intercept it , " the Houthis said in a statement released Saturday morning , adding that the attack was in response to " the massacres against our brothers in Gaza . " <p> Dr. Muneer Alboursh , the Director General of Health in Gaza , said an attack on a house in Jabaliya in northern Gaza killed 12 people , " most of them children and a woman . " He called the attack a " bloody massacre , " and said the bombing had injured several others . <p> Israeli attacks have killed 45,000 people in Gaza since the start of the war 15 months ago , most of them women and children , according to Palestinian health officials . The current conflict was sparked when Hamas attacked southern Israel , killing some 1,200 people and taking about 250 hostage . <p> A wounded Palestinian woman bids farewell to her child , killed in an Israeli strike the previous night , as she lies in a bed at Al-Ahli Arab hospital in Gaza City on Saturday.OMAR AL-QATTAA / AFP - Getty ImagesA man carries the shrouded body of a child , killed in an Israeli strike the previous night , during a funeral in Jabalia.OMAR AL-QATTAA / AFP - Getty Images <p> Israel has been trading retaliatory strikes with Houthi rebels since that war began . <p> However , nearly all Houthi missiles have been intercepted over the Red Sea , one of the world 's busiest waterways , where the group has also targeted commercial vessels . <p> In September , nine people were injured running to shelters after a ballistic missile launched from Yemen crossed into Israel , landing in an open field outside Tel Aviv . <p> Tel Aviv , Israel 's second-largest city , serves as the nation 's commercial and diplomatic hub . Direct impacts on the city from incoming projectiles are uncommon , thanks to Israel 's usually robust air defense systems . <p> On Thursday , the IDF said a school near Tel Aviv was damaged after the " partial interception " of a missile launched from Yemen . <p> Later that day , it said Israel had launched strikes against " military targets " on Yemen 's western coast and inland , including " fuel and oil tanks , two power plants , and eight tugboats. " 
@@119146922 <p> " The possibility of reaching a deal is closer than ever if Israel stops imposing new conditions , " Hamas said in a statement on Saturday . <p> The statement comes following a Friday meeting between a Hamas delegation led by Khalil al-Hayya , head of the negotiating team for a hostage deal and ceasefire , and representatives of the Islamic Jihad and the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine ( PFLP ) . <p> In the statement , Hamas also declared that the three organizations are unified in their demand for an immediate end to the war as part of an agreement that includes the release of hostages and a ceasefire in Gaza . <p> A rally calling for the release of the Israeli hostages held captive by Hamas in Gaza , at the Hostage Square in Tel Aviv , December 14 , 2024 ( credit : AVSHALOM SASSONI/FLASH90 ) <h> Delegation or no delegation ? <p> Later on Saturday , a report by Qatari-owned , London-based news outlet Al-Araby Al-Jadeed claimed that a security delegation from Israel was on its way to Cairo in order to meet with Egyptian officials on the topics of a hostage deal and ceasefire . <p> Israeli officials denied these claims , saying , " There is no Israeli delegation on the way to Cairo , nor is one planned . " 
@@119146923 <h> The IDF had earlier confirmed that Nimrod was alive , and the brigade commander called to apologize following the incident . <p> The parents of Nimrod Cohen mistakenly received an invite to a Hanukkah event for bereaved families from the IDF on Friday . <p> Yehuda Cohen , Nimrod 's father , was furious at the invitation and told KAN , " They have already declared us a bereaved family . " <p> The IDF had earlier confirmed that Nimrod was alive , and the brigade commander called to apologize following the incident . His father said this was not enough and that he wanted the results of the investigation into his son 's kidnapping . <p> He elaborated , telling Walla that after discovering it was for bereaved families , he " exploded with rage . " <p> He went on to say , " I told her what this insensitivity is ; we are not a bereaved family . We have n't volunteered to kill our son yet . " Palestinians take control of an Israeli tank after crossing the border fence with Israel from Khan Yunis in the southern Gaza Strip , October 7 , 2023. ( credit : ABED RAHIM KHATIB/FLASH90 ) <h> No one checks <p> Yehuda said this was a clear lack of thoroughness , " No one looks and checks before sending . " <p> He said he felt as if they were saying , " We know this is an invitation for bereaved families , but you VIPs can come without him dying . " 
@@119146929 <h> The Education Department 's Office of Civil Rights claimed the universities were ' engaged in different treatment of students based on actual or perceived national origin . ' <p> By ANDREW LAPIN/JTA DECEMBER 21 , 2024 03:36 <p> Police officers clash with pro-Palestinian demonstrators at the University of California at Irvine ( UCI ) on May 15 , 2024 in Irvine , California. ( photo credit : Qian Weizhong/VCG via Getty Images ) <p> ( JTA ) -- The US Department of Education announced it had resolved nine antisemitism- and Islamophobia-related civil rights complaints made against five campuses inside the University of California system on Friday , including some involving a prominent pro-Palestinian encampment in Los Angeles that had descended into violence in the spring . <p> The sweeping resolution comes in the final weeks of President Biden 's term , and as President-elect Donald Trump has threatened to eliminate the department altogether , which could potentially move antisemitism investigations under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act to the Justice Department . <p> The Education Department 's Office of Civil Rights , which handles Title VI cases , wrote in an open letter to Michael Drake , president of the UC system , that it had " identified compliance concerns that the Universities appear not to have responded promptly or effectively " to allegations of harassment . In addition , OCR said , three of the schools " appear to have engaged in different treatment of students based on actual or perceived national origin . " <p> Four of the resolved cases involved the University of California , Los Angeles , where an unruly spring encampment -- and pro-Israel counterdemonstrations -- ended in violence and arrests . UCLA received complaints on behalf of both Jewish and pro-Palestinian students that the school had failed to protect them during the encampments , which also recently earned the campus a legal rebuke based on accusations that protesters blocked Jewish students ' access to parts of campus . ( An internal antisemitism task force at UCLA also recently found that the school had fostered an antisemitic environment , including as a result of the encampments . ) <p> Two more complaints involved UC Davis , where a faculty member in October 2023 posted threats to " Zionist journalists " on social media , and where Muslim and Palestinian students alleged they had been doxxed and stalked . PROTESTERS SUPPORTING Palestinians in Gaza gather at UCLA in May . School campuses have become toxic for Jews , hearkening back to the time when they were not fully welcome at America 's elite universities less than a century ago , the writer argues . ( credit : DAVID SWANSON/REUTERS ) <h> ' Pleased ' with resolution <p> The other three cases involved the targeting of a Jewish student body president at UC Santa Barbara ; allegations of " anti-Zionist propaganda " posted in the Critical Race and Ethnic Studies department of UC Santa Cruz ; and UC San Diego 's alleged failure to respond to harmful activity from its Students for Justice in Palestine chapter . <p> In a statement to the Jewish Telegraphic Agency , the UC system said it was " pleased " with the resolution agreement and that it " unequivocally rejects anti-Semitism , Islamophobia , and all forms of harassment and discrimination . " The statement pointed to other steps the school said it had taken lately to address the issue , including establishing its own office of civil rights , an anti-discrimination policy , and new limits on protests and other activities . <p> As part of the resolution agreement , the UC system agreed to annual Title VI training for staff and campus police , to report more information to OCR about how its campuses will respond to harassment complaints , and annual audits and regular campus climate assessments for the five campuses mentioned in the complaint . <p> Six of the nine complaints involved harassment against Jewish and Israeli students ; OCR said it dismissed one of those complaints , involving a Jewish UCLA student who said SJP had blocked her from joining the group , due to lack of evidence . The other three complaints involved harassment against Muslim , Arab or Palestinian students . <p> Justin Samuels , a non-Jewish conservative legal activist whose complaint triggered one of the UC Davis investigations , told JTA he was " happy to have helped " in their resolution . Samuels has been active in filing Title VI complaints related to campus antisemitism in the wake of the Oct. 7 , 2023 , Hamas attacks . <p> He added , " I expect the Trump administration to be a lot more proactive on shared ancestry discrimination . " <p> OCR has continued to resolve antisemitism-related Title VI cases since the election , though dozens more remain active in its system . A separate resolution agreement , also announced Friday , ruled that the University of Cincinnati did not appropriately respond to complaints of discrimination against Jewish students related to a " Spooky Zionist " student gathering . <p> The university similarly agreed to regularly report its handling of discrimination cases to the office , and to additional employee training and campus climate assessments . <p> " The university appeared to operate under the mistaken understanding that if a complainant could not identify a perpetrator by name ; the conduct was not directed at a specific individual ; the conduct involved multiple perpetrators or a registered student organization ; or the conduct occurred off campus , the university did not have an obligation to address alleged harassment , " the office determined in a statement . 
@@119146932 <h> Top 10 reasons to leave the house : December 20-29 <p> By NERIA BARRDECEMBER 21 , 2024 10:17 <h> 1 . Music for a cause <p> Wrapped in Love ( Atuf Be'ahava ) is a fundraising event by the Israeli Music Foundation , supporting artists from the Gaza border communities affected by the war . Hosted by Yoav Ginai , it will feature performances by Haim Uliel and the Sfatayim band from Sderot , alongside musicians Daniel Weiss , Shaylee Atari , Ohad Peretz , and Hagit Yaso , all of whom lost loved ones during the war . The event , filmed for TV , aims to raise funds to help these artists continue their work and bring hope through music . <p> December 20 at 1:00 p.m. , House of Creators , Tel Aviv Port <h> 2 . Festival of light <p> The Holiday of Holidays Festival in Haifa runs through the end of December at Beit HaGefen and across the city . The Family Complex offers free performances , which include circus acts , music , theater , and clowning in various languages . Highlights include Shambuki 's Show ( juggling ) ; Marrakesh Express for Kids ( Oriental-style songs ) ; Sting Experience ( tribute ) ; Circles of Joy ( circus ) ; Perla and The Pralines ( clown troupe ) ; and Bird of Light ( musical storytelling ) . Family tours , including a Christmas tour , are also available . <p> Ongoing . For details and tickets : haifahag.com <h> 3 . Voices of praise <p> The Jerusalem Symphony Orchestra hosts the grand finale of the Hallelujah Festival , celebrating both Hanukkah and Christmas . The Praise the Lord with Many Voices event features 20 choirs from across Israel performing vocal masterpieces , such as Yehezkel Brown 's " The Golden Peacock " ; Leonard Bernstein 's " Chichester Psalms " ; Mendelssohn 's " Psalm 42 " ; and Brahms 's " Song of Destiny " . Perla and The Pralines in Haifa . ( credit : ARIK SHRAGA ) <p> December 23 at 5:30 p.m. , Jerusalem Theatre . For more information , visit jso.co.il/en. <h> 4 . Illuminating art <p> The " Light Please " exhibition at the Tel Aviv Museum of Art family center features light installations by contemporary artists alongside 17th-century paintings . Dana Tannhauser and Yoav Fisch 's stained-glass pieces offer a fresh take on everyday moments . <p> The Malhamami Lighting Forever collective presents an interactive light and sound installation , while Khen Shish 's glowing mural adds a golden touch . Visitors can create their own light works using colorful collage materials . <p> Opening : December 25 . For details , visit tamuseum.co.il. <h> 5 . Through their lens <p> The annual " Edut Mekomit " ( " Local Testimony " ) photography exhibition highlights powerful images reflecting pivotal cultural , social , and historical moments in Israel . This year 's show , focusing on Israeli press photography , includes 170 works selected from over 8,600 submissions . It explores the aftermath of the war and its lasting impact on Israeli society . <h> 6 . New horizons <p> The Bechorot ( Premieres ) 2024 Festival in Jerusalem showcases new works by art school graduates . The program includes performances like The Beating Heart of Rebetiko and Connections ; dance works such as Right Forms ; and exhibitions such as " Transitions " and " Second Look . " Other highlights feature film screenings , book launches , and a composers ' panel . <p> December 25-26 . All events are free of charge . For details : bechorot.co.il. <h> 7 . Moving reflection <p> Renowned choreographer Emanuel Gat premieres Inbal , the final work in his trilogy for the Inbal Dance Company . Set to the soundtrack of BlueBand by David Peretz , the piece marks Gat 's artistic journey with the company , reflecting on the present while looking toward the future . <h> 8 . Art in the market <p> The Raising the Switch art event at the Greek Market in Jaffa features some 30 Israeli artists , such as Sigalit Landau and Miriam Cabessa . The event explores the dual nature of the Greek Market , blending commerce with moments of reflection , and presents art installations , video projections , and live performances . <p> December 26 , from 7 p.m. to 11 p.m. , at the Greek Market , Jaffa . Free admission . <h> 9 . Bridges through music <p> The Ein Kerem Music Festival expands this year to Kfar Blum and Tel Aviv , featuring nine concerts with Christian , Muslim , and Jewish musicians from Austria and Israel . Highlights include Sounds of Silence , a collaboration between vocalist Dani Kutner and marimbist Chen Zimbalista ; and opera singer Nour Darwish with pianist Sasha Ivanov . <p> December 27-29 . For details and tickets : zimbalistamf.com. <h> 10 . Savoring tradition <p> ANU - Museum of the Jewish People invites families to explore Jewish culinary traditions this Hanukkah . The new audio-guided tour , " Following Jewish Food Stories , " delves into the rich history of Jewish cuisine , from chocolate 's global spread to the origins of fish &amp; chips . Led by culinary expert Gil Hovav , the tours include performances by actors bringing historical figures to life . 
@@119146937 <h> Bestselling author Rebecca Makkai , whose grandfather wrote WWII-era laws that Jews from public spaces , will be writing a book on fascism . <p> By ANDREW LAPIN/JTA DECEMBER 21 , 2024 00:12 <p> Selection of Hungarian Jews on the ramp at Auschwitz-II-Birkenau in German-occupied Poland , May/June 1944 , during the final phase of the Holocaust . Jews were sent either to work or to the gas chamber . ( photo credit : Universal History Archive/Universal Images Group via Getty Images ) <p> ( JTA ) -- Recently the bestselling author Rebecca Makkai revealed the setting of her next novel to fans : It would take place in 1938 and address the rise of Nazi and fascist sympathizers at the time in the United States . <p> " Something I 've had to accept , in researching and writing this book , is that many of the people who fell for fascism in the 1930s were neither inherently evil nor idiots , " Makkai wrote to her more than 17,000 Substack readers on December 5 in a post titled " The View From 1938 . " She continued , " They were deeply misinformed , and therefore manipulable . " <p> Makkai went on to explicitly link the themes of her book-in-progress to Donald Trump 's reelection in the present day . " Up until October , people used to be shocked when I told them there was a full Nazi rally in Madison Square Garden in 1939 , replete with antisemitic and racist speeches . That was before Trump 's dog-whistle rally , eerily similar , " she wrote . Later , she listed points of comparison between Trump and Hitler . <p> Makkai is a Pulitzer Prize finalist for her 2018 novel The Great Believers , and her most recent book , I Have Some Questions For You , spent six weeks on the New York Times bestseller list . Her assistant told the Jewish Telegraphic Agency that the book , still in progress , would come out in 2026 . <p> But while Makkai portrayed her latest effort as timely , her choice of material has raised eyebrows . That 's in part because her announcement did n't mention that her grandfather , Janos Makkai , was a prominent Hungarian ethnonationalist politician who helped write the 1939 laws that excluded most of the country 's Jews from public life . The journalist and essayist Emily Fox Kaplan also took Makkai to task for alleging that Israel is targeting journalists in Gaza , which she called a present-day version of age-old antisemitic ideas . American novelist and short-story writer Rebecca Makkai , Torino , Italy , May 12 , 2024. ( credit : Leonardo Cendamo/Getty Images ) <h> Who tells our story ? <p> The objections tap into two broader debates in the literary world : one about who gets to tell which stories , and another about the acceptable limits of Israel protests in cultural institutions where Jews say they have been made to feel unwelcome . Makkai 's recent participation in a fundraiser for a group fighting antisemitism in the arts space has n't insulated her from criticism . <p> " In your essay , this essay that devoted paragraph after paragraph to Hitler 's hatred of ' the other ' without once specifying who , exactly , that other was , you write that your aim in delving deeply into this period of history is to examine the ways that history repeats itself , " wrote Kaplan , whose work has been published in Guernica , The Atlantic , The New York Times and other outlets , in an open letter titled " Hey Rebecca Makkai , I have some questions for you . " <p> " So it 's noteworthy , then , that you have made not a single statement about the fact that antisemitism is surging to levels not seen since the 1930s , when your grandfather wrote Hungary 's Second Jewish Law , " Kaplan added , saying that Makkai 's allegation that Israel is targeting journalists is a " contemporary manifestations of the ancient blood libel , the idea that Jews ritually kill innocents in a quest for power and domination . " <p> Janos Makkai , Rebecca 's paternal grandfather , was a member of Hungarian parliament who authored and promoted the country 's Second Jewish Law of 1939 . The Jewish laws were modeled after the Nuremberg Race Laws and were enacted years prior to Nazi Germany 's 1944 invasion of Hungary . <p> He was " a rising star politician on the authoritarian and racist right that was in power in inter-war Hungary , " Ferenc Lacz ? , a professor of European political history at Maastricht University in the Netherlands and author of Hungarian Jews in the Age of Genocide , An Intellectual History , 1929-1940 , told JTA . Lacz ? continued , " J ? nos Makkai in fact played a leading role when discriminatory laws against Hungarian Jews were introduced in the late 1930s . " <p> The laws defined who counted as Jewish in Hungarian society ; defined Jews as a race , rather than as a religious group ; and placed Jewish quotas of 6% in professional roles . Subsequent stricter antisemitic laws culminated in the deportation of nearly a half-million Hungarian Jews to Nazi death camps . An estimated 565,000 Hungarian Jews -- nearly 70% of the country 's Jewish population -- were murdered in the Holocaust . <p> Janos survived the war , moved to the United States ( " by talking his way through a checkpoint , " Rebecca has remarked ) , changed his name and lived out his last decades in Hawaii , where , Rebecca said in 2013 , " until a few years ago , I had the impression that he was a bit of a hero . " His son ? d ? m Makkai , Rebecca 's father , remained in Hungary with his mother but also fled to the US after participating in the 1956 failed Hungarian Revolution , later becoming a globally renowned linguist . On social media , Rebecca Makkai today refers to herself as the " daughter of a refugee , " and recently wrote of her father , " He was a complicated and fascinating person . " <p> Makkai has written and spoken about her grandfather before , most notably in a 2013 essay titled " Other Types of Poison " and an accompanying interview in Harper 's magazine that touched on his background . The essay , and her comments about it , focused largely on her grandmother Rozsa Ignacz , a Hungarian leftist writer , actor , and activist whom Makkai said hid Jews from the Nazis and would disguise herself as a Jew to visit actor friends in ghettos during the war . ( The two were first cousins and only briefly married , Makkai said , adding , " Of course , I 'd rather own her legacy than his . " ) <p> But Makkai did ruminate on her grandfather in the essay , without ever quite condemning him . " I am told that he did feel remorse . That he never imagined those laws to be a red carpet for Eichmann . That he regretted the turns things took . That , for whatever it 's worth , he never meant to hurt anyone , " she wrote . " I suppose it 's worth precisely nothing . " <p> To Lacz ? , Makkai 's choice of subject given her grandfather 's background was curious . <p> " Rebecca Makkai has publicly recognized , though -- as far as I know -- has not extensively discussed her grandfather 's complicity in the persecution of Hungarian Jews , " he wrote in an email . " Her recent announcement on Substack makes me believe that she will suggest the direct comparability of Nazism in Germany and Trumpism in the US today , which I consider not a particularly judicious historical comparison -- and a rather blunt political statement . " <p> The historian also took issue with " the emphasis on misinformation and gullibility " in Makkai 's book announcement -- and suggested that it could be seen as a way to excuse her grandfather 's actions . <h> Excusing a Nazi-sympathizer ? <p> " There were many , way too many fascist believers in Europe in the late 1930s , and the persecution of Jews across Europe was driven forward by convinced antisemites , like her grandfather and numerous others , " he wrote . " Without meaning to impute bad intentions to the writer , it strikes me that her emphasis on how ' good and smart ' people fell for fascism can be a way to avoid speaking more directly and critically about the responsibility that actors like her grandfather had for legal discrimination and persecution that soon culminated in mass crimes against Jews and others . " <p> In conversation with Jewish writer Davis Schneiderman in 2013 , Makkai said she had initially been told that Janos had been " coerced " into writing the antisemitic laws , comparing him to " Rolph from The Sound of Music " ( a teenaged Austrian romantic interest from the Nazi-era musical and movie who quickly joins the Nazis after they invade the country , but ultimately allows the Von Trapp family to continue their escape ) . <p> After doing her own research , she said , she 'd been obligated to revise that opinion of Janos : " He 'd been upset about the influx of Jewish refugees , which is what led to his political initiatives . " <p> Two years later Makkai published a short story collection , Music for Wartime , which includes stories that deal with World War II , the Holocaust and its effect on Central Europe . The book received mixed reviews , with The New York Times calling it " self-conscious high-mindedness " in a pan . Her follow-up was The Great Believers , a deeply researched account of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Chicago , which won rave reviews , skyrocketed her career , and led to her becoming a literary authority on how to sensitively write about a community that is not one 's own . <p> In her limited public communications so far about her upcoming novel , Makkai has not mentioned her grandfather , nor suggested whether such a history would be incorporated into her book . Her Substack post also did not mention Jews or antisemitism beyond the reference to the 1939 rally . That led Kaplan to announce she was writing an essay of her own in response featuring accounts of Hungarian Jews persecuted by the law drafted by Makkai 's grandfather , as well as the reactions of their descendants to Makkai 's statements . Kaplan put out calls for such stories in Jewish writers ' groups and elsehwere . <p> Publishing history is awash with books on the Holocaust written by the descendants of Nazis and their collaborators , including many tomes from German and Polish authors . In recent years , the author 's wrestling with such family relations are often the hook of these books . <p> Journalist and Harvard University fellow Linda Kinstler , in her prizewinning 2022 book Come To This Court &amp; Cry , reports that her grandfather was a participant in a Latvian killing unit during the Holocaust , while also serving as a secret agent for the KGB ( her mother 's side of the family are Soviet Jews ) . German-Nigerian author Jennifer Teege had an international bestseller in 2015 with My Grandfather Would Have Shot Me , her memoir ( co-written with Nikola Sellmair ) about being the Black granddaughter of the Nazi commandant depicted in the film Schindler 's List . The book followed a similar memoir by her own mother . <p> And the journalist Nina Munk has directly tackled her own family 's Hungarian Holocaust history , having translated and edited the memoir How It Happened : Documenting the Tragedy of Hungarian Jewry by her relative Erno Munkacsi , who was the secretary for the Hungarian Judenrat -- a council of Jews who worked with the Nazis . <p> It remains to be seen whether Makkai will choose such a path . But Kaplan suspects she wo n't . <p> " Those of us who have studied the ways antisemitism functions across time and space find it chilling , but not surprising , that the granddaughter of the man who wrote Hungary 's Second Jewish Law of 1939 has chosen to use her enormous platform to spread an ancient blood libel against the Jews -- while identifying as a social justice-minded student of the ways that history repeats itself , " Kaplan wrote in a statement to JTA . <p> Kaplan was also one of several voices publicly criticizing Guernica magazine earlier this year when -- in response to left-wing backlash -- it pulled an Israeli writer 's essay about coexistence . <p> In her open letter to Makkai , Kaplan explained that by " blood libel " she was referring to Instagram posts by Makkai in which the author , directing her comments at the literary free speech group PEN America , accused Israel of targeting specific journalists with bombs in Gaza . Israel has denied it is intentionally targeting journalists in its military campaign , which the Hamas-run Gaza health ministry says has killed more than 45,000 Palestinians , following the Hamas attacks that killed 1,200 Israelis , took hundreds of hostages and launched the war . <p> Makkai directed her audience to donate to a group called International Media Support , which aids journalists in Gaza and says more than 120 journalists have been killed there in " relentless attacks " by Israel . <p> Through her assistant , Makkai declined to comment further , saying she would discuss her novel in more detail upon its release . Yet even as the author has been coy about how Jews and antisemitism will factor into her book , she has shown support for an effort opposing antisemitism in the cultural space . <p> She participated in an auction this year held by Artists Against Antisemitism , a new advocacy group formed in the wake of Hamas ' October 7 attack that focuses on Jewish support in the literary space and has raised awareness of Jewish authors who have been shunned from organizations or events over their real or purported Zionism . <p> In the fundraiser , Makkai auctioned off naming rights to a " minor character " in her new book , which the auction description noted " explores antisemitism in the US in the 1930s . " The name , the instructions said , " would have to be a name that could exist in either Germany or the US in 1938 . " Makkai 's item , which found an undisclosed bidder and sum , was available for bidding alongside other perks centered around figures such as Chelsea Clinton or Jimmy Fallon , as well as outspoken pro-Israel celebrities such as Mayim Bialik and Julianna Margulies . <p> " We 're glad that Rebecca Makkai made the choice to stand with us against hate , " the executive board of Artists Against Antisemitism told JTA in a statement , adding that the auction description was jointly written by the author and the organization . " Having not read the manuscript of her new book , we ca n't comment on its content , nor can we speak to Rebecca 's reason for writing it . " <p> In her open letter , Kaplan said it would be a failure of Makkai 's to write a novel about the Holocaust without mentioning or speaking to Jews . " I wonder if you would have published an essay about the Civil War that does n't mention slavery . And whether if you had , and Black people had reacted with horror , you would have ignored them , " she wrote . ( Kaplan told JTA she had reached out to Makkai about her concerns but that the author blocked her on social media . ) <p> Regardless of whether Makkai writes about her grandfather in her new novel , in 2013 she expressed a desire to write more about him one day . <p> " One of these times , if I get the words in the correct order , if I retrace more precisely the lines of history , I am convinced I will learn something I need to know , " she wrote . Then , later , referring to her grandparents : " I want to write more about both of them . There 's obviously a lot I have n't figured out yet . And I think that 's always a good reason to write about something . " 
@@119169730 <p> Aviva Siegel , the wife of American hostage Kieth Siegel and a former hostage herself , is pleading with everyone and anyone involved in the hostage negotiations to get her husband , and the others , freed from Hamas captivity after they have spent more than 440 days in deplorable conditions . <p> " Hamas released a video of Keith , and I just saw the picture , " Aviva told Fox News Digital in an emotional interview in reference to a video Hamas released in April . " He looks terrible . His bones are out , and you can see that he 's lost a lot of weight . <p> " He does n't look like himself . And I 'm just so worried about him , because so many days and minutes have passed since that video that we received , " she said . " I just do n't know what kind of Keith that we 're going to get back . " <p> " I 'm worried about all the hostages , because the conditions that they are in are the worst conditions that any human being could go through , " Aviva said . " I was there . I touched death . I know what it feels being underneath the ground with no oxygen . <p> " Keith and I were just left there . We were left there to die , " she added . <p> Aviva and her husband of , at the time 42 years , were brutally abducted from their home in Kibbutz Kfar Aza by Hamas on Oct. 7 , 2023 , and held together for 51 days before she was released in the November 2023 hostage exchange after suffering from a stomach infection that left her incredibly ill . <p> Aviva called on her husband and all other hostages held by Hamas to be released . <p> She has since tirelessly fought for Kieth 's release , meeting with top officials in the US and Israel , traveling to the United States nine times in the last year and becoming a prominent advocate for the hostages . <p> " I just hope that he 's with other people from Israel , and if he has them , he 's going to be okay , " Aviva said . " He 's just the person that will make them feel that they 're together . That 's what he did when I was there -- he was 100% for me and the hostages that we were with . " <p> " If you get kidnapped , get kidnapped with Keith , because he was outstanding to everybody . He was strong for all of us . And I 'm sure that he 's keeping strong and keeping his hope to come out , " she said . <p> Aviva recounted their last moments together before they were separated ahead of her release , telling Fox News Digital , " When I left him , I told him to be the strongest -- that he needs to be strong for me , and I 'll be strong for him . " <p> Top security officials from the US , Egypt , and Qatar have been pushing Israel and Hamas to agree to a cease-fire and the return of hostages . <p> Reports on Thursday suggested that negotiators are pushing for a 42-day cease-fire in which 34 of the at least 50 hostages still assessed to be alive , could be exchanged . <p> The Siegels were abducted from Kibbutz Kfar Aza during the Oct. 7 attacks . AP Photo/Maya Alleruzzo <p> Hamas is also believed to continue to hold at least 38 who were taken hostage and then killed while in captivity , along with at least seven who are believed to have been killed on Oct. 7 , 2023 and then taken into Gaza . <p> Though all the hostages are believed to have been held in deplorable conditions , the children , women -- including the female IDF soldiers -- the sick and the elderly have reportedly been front listed to be freed first in exchange for Hamas terrorists currently imprisoned . <p> " I 'm keeping my hope and holding on and just waiting -- waiting to hug Keith , and waiting for all the families , to get their families back , " Aviva said . " We need to get them back . " <p> Aviva said the hostages are in the " worst conditions that any human being could go through . " James Messerschmidt <p> Aviva said she dreams of the moment that she gets to hug her husband again and watch their grandchildren " jump into his arms . " <p> " We 'll be the happiest people on Earth , " she said . " All the hostages , I ca n't imagine them coming home . It 'll be just the happiest moment for all of the families . We need it to happen . " <p> Reports in recent weeks suggest there is an increased sense of optimism in bringing home the hostages , but Secretary of State Antony Blinken urged some caution when speaking with MSNBC Morning Joe on Thursday when he said , " We are encouraged because this should happen , and it should happen because Hamas is at a point where the cavalry it thought might come to the rescue is n't coming to the rescue , Hezbollah 's not coming to the rescue , Iran 's not coming to the rescue . " <p> " In the absence of that , I think the pressure is on Hamas to finally get to yes , " he added . " But look , I think we also have to be very realistic . We 've had these Lucy and the football moments several times over the last months where we thought we were there , and the football gets pulled away . <p> " The real question is : Is Hamas capable of making a decision and getting to yes ? We 've been fanning out with every possible partner on this to try to get the necessary pressure exerted on Hamas to say yes , " Blinken added . 
@@119171022 <p> Two United States navy pilots have been shot down over the Red Sea in an apparent " friendly fire " incident , says the US military . <p> Yemen 's Houthi fighters later on Sunday claimed they had " targeted " the aircraft carrier USS Harry S Truman a day earlier in an operation that led to " shooting down an F-18 aircraft " . <p> The US Central Command ( CENTCOM ) said both pilots were recovered alive after ejecting from their aircraft , which was struck early on Sunday , with one suffering minor injuries . <p> This incident " was not the result of hostile fire , and a full investigation is underway " , CENTCOM said , adding that the aircraft had just flown off the deck of Truman . <p> The Houthis have repeatedly attacked Israel-linked ships in the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden , waterways vital to global trade . The group says its attacks are in solidarity with Palestinians in Gaza , where Israel has been waging a genocide for more than a year , killing more than 45,000 people . <p> In a video statement , Houthi spokesman Yahya Saree said the group also launched eight drones and 17 cruise missiles in its attack . <p> Advertisement <p> However , CENTCOM said warships and aircraft earlier shot down multiple Houthi drones and an antiship cruise missile launched by the Yemeni rebels . <h> Netanyahu pledges revenge against Houthis <p> Meanwhile , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Sunday pledged to retaliate against Houthi rebels after they fired a missile at Tel Aviv , warning that Israel would target what he described as the last remaining arm of " Iran 's axis of evil " . <p> The Houthis struck Israel 's commercial hub on Saturday with what they claimed was a ballistic missile , injuring 16 people and forcing many to leave their homes following the predawn attack . <p> " As we acted with force against the terrorist arms of Iran 's axis of evil , so we will act against the Houthis ... with force , determination and sophistication , " Netanyahu said in a video statement . <p> Saturday 's strike on Tel Aviv was the second such attack on Israel by the Houthis this week , and one of several since the war in Gaza broke out . <p> US and British forces have repeatedly struck rebel targets in Yemen in response to Houthi attacks on shipping in the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden . Israel has also previously struck the Houthis , including hitting ports and energy facilities , after rebel attacks against its territory . <p> The latest Israeli attack against the Houthis was on Thursday , with Israeli warplanes striking Sanaa for the first time . 
@@119171032 <h> I am living my own Nakba <p> A Palestinian boy stands on the rubble of a house destroyed by the Israeli army in Khan Younis in the southern Gaza Strip on October 7 , 2024 File : Reuters/Mohammed Salem <p> My grandfather , Hamdi , was just eight when his family fled Bir al-Sabaa , a town in southern Palestine once known for its fertile land and agricultural life . His father , Abdelraouf , was a farmer who owned nearly 1,000 dunams of land and cultivated wheat , selling the harvest to merchants in Gaza . The family had a happy and comfortable life . <p> In October 1948 , several months after European-Zionist forces had proclaimed the creation of Israel , Israeli troops attacked Bir al-Sabaa , forcing thousands of Palestinians , including my grandfather 's family , to flee under the threat of being massacred . <p> " We fled Bir al-Sabaa when the militias arrived , " my grandfather often told me . " My father thought it would only be temporary . We left our home , land and animals behind , thinking we 'd return . But that never happened . " <p> Hamdi 's family fled on foot and by horse-drawn cart . What they thought would be a few weeks of displacement turned into permanent exile . Just like 700,000 other Palestinians , they were survivors of what we now call the Nakba . <p> Advertisement <p> Hamdi 's family found refuge in Gaza , where they stayed in temporary shelters and with extended family . Relatives helped them buy a small plot of land in the Tuffah neighbourhood of Gaza , just 70km ( 40 miles ) from their home in Bir al-Sabaa , which the Israelis renamed Beersheba . Hamdi 's family struggled to rebuild their life . <p> Seventy-five years after my grandfather 's experience of painful displacement , sorrow , and a struggle to survive , my family and I fell victim to the Nakba as well . <p> At 4am on October 13 , 2023 , my mother 's phone rang . We were all sleeping in one room of our home in the Remal neighbourhood of Gaza City , trying to find comfort from the relentless sound of drones and warplanes overhead . The phone woke us all up . <p> It was a prerecorded message from the Israeli military warning us that our home was in a danger zone , and we were being ordered to move south . Fear gripped us as we ran outside , only to see Israeli leaflets scattered everywhere with the same warning . We had no choice but to pack some clothes and some bedding and flee . <p> It was not the first time we had been forced to leave our home . Since I was 12 , I have experienced the horror of Israeli assaults on Gaza , which have repeatedly forced us to flee and live in fear and uncertainty . <p> Since I was 12 , I have learned to recognise the distinct sounds of bombs , F-16 jets , Apache helicopters and drones . I have known intimately the terror they bring . <p> Previous displacements were temporary , and we had hoped this one would be , too -- just like my grandfather believed that his family would eventually return . <p> Advertisement <p> But there is no return in sight now . Our home was badly damaged by an Israeli tank . The upper floor was burned , and a whole wall on the lower floor is missing . All our belongings were destroyed . <p> The handbag with some clothes I took on October 13 is all that remains of my possessions . <p> We headed to az-Zawayda in the central Gaza Strip to stay with relatives . Along the way , we saw thousands of other Palestinians dragging bags of clothes and searching for safety . <p> From our temporary shelter , I saw the pain of exile in the crowded corners of every room . We shared a flat with 47 other people , bound by the chilling fear that nowhere was safe . We spent two months in that crowded flat , near Salah al-Din Street . Ultimately , constant explosions forced us to relocate to another house in the area . <p> On January 5 , the sharp crack of sniper fire and gunshots intensified . Then came the thunderous blast of artillery and bombs . We gathered what little we had and fled to Deir el-Balah . <p> We were forced to live in an eight-person tent for three months before moving into a small , poorly insulated room on a plot of land owned by a friend . This is where we are spending the winter . Rain seeps through nylon windows , and the cold is unbearable , leaving us sleepless most nights . <p> We have struggled to secure the most basic of needs -- food and water . For the past two days , we were forced to survive on contaminated water and a single loaf of bread . Starvation has drained our strength and hope . <p> I now understand the Nakba of 1948 in a way I never did before . It is the story of my grandparents repeating within our generation , but within the confines of Gaza . And to be honest , it feels even worse than the Nakba of 1948 . The weapons used today are far more advanced , causing unprecedented destruction and mass death and injury -- something my grandparents could never have imagined in 1948 . <p> Advertisement <p> The pain is not just physical . It is also psychological . Witnessing the unthinkable -- the constant fear , the loss of loved ones , the struggle for basic survival -- has taken an enormous toll . During sleepless nights , the deafening roar of rockets and the memories of dismembered bodies and ruined homes haunt us . I look at the members of my family and I see how much their faces have changed ; their hollow eyes and silent tears speak volumes . When I walk in the street , I see communities known for their generosity and solidarity shattered by loss and destruction . <p> It 's clear that Israel 's goal is to force Palestinians out of historical Palestine by any means . The fear of being expelled from Gaza is overwhelming . With homes reduced to rubble and entire neighbourhoods wiped out , it feels like our exile may be imminent . I never imagined leaving my home , but after losing everything , Gaza no longer feels like a place to live -- only a graveyard of despair and loss . <p> There is no Palestinian that has not been affected by displacement , by the fear of losing the homeland forever . The Nakba is truly the unending story of Palestine . <p> The views expressed in this article are the author 's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera 's editorial stance . 
@@119172125 <h> Israeli strikes kill 17 in Gaza ; hospital told to evacuate <p> Mourners react as they attend the funeral of Palestinians killed in an Israeli strike , amid the ongoing conflict between Israel and Hamas , at Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital , in Deir Al-Balah , in the central Gaza Strip today . <p> CAIRO , Egypt &gt;&gt; Israeli military strikes across the Gaza Strip killed at least 17 Palestinians , eight of them at a school sheltering displaced families in Gaza City , medics said , as the Israeli military ordered the evacuation of a hospital in the north . <p> Palestinian medics said eight people , including children , were killed in the Musa Bin Nusayr School that sheltered displaced families in Gaza City . <p> The Israeli military said in a statement the strike targeted Hamas militants operating from a command center embedded inside the school . It said Hamas militants used the place to plan and execute attacks against Israeli forces . <p> Also in Gaza City , medics said four Palestinians were killed when an airstrike hit a car . <p> At least five other Palestinians were killed in two separate airstrikes in Rafah and Khan Younis south of the enclave . <p> In the northern Gaza town of Beit Lahiya , where the army has operated since October , Hussam Abu Safiya , the director of Kamal Adwan Hospital , said the army ordered staff to evacuate the hospital and move patients and injured people toward another hospital in the area . <h> Do n't miss out on what 's happening ! <p> Stay in touch with top news , as it happens , conveniently in your email inbox . It 's FREE ! <p> Abu Safiya said the mission was " next to impossible " because staff did not have ambulances to move the patients . <p> The Israeli army has operated in the two towns of north Gaza , Beit Lahiya and Beit Hanoun , as well as the nearby Jabalia camp for nearly three months . <p> Palestinians have accused Israel of carrying out acts of " ethnic cleansing " to depopulate those areas to create a buffer zone . <p> Israel denies this and says the campaign in the area aimed to fight Hamas militants and prevent them from regrouping . It said its forces have killed hundreds of militants and dismantled military infrastructure since that operation began . <p> Armed wings of Hamas and the Islamic Jihad said they killed many Israeli soldiers in ambushes during the same period . <p> Mediators have yet to secure a ceasefire between Israel and the Islamist group Hamas . <p> Sources close to the discussions told Reuters on Thursday that Qatar and Egypt had been able to resolve some differences between the warring parties but sticking points remained . <p> Israel began its assault on Gaza after Hamas-led fighters attacked Israeli communities on Oct. 7 , 2023 , killing 1,200 people and taking over 250 hostages , according to Israeli tallies . Israel says about 100 hostages are still being held , but it is unclear how many are alive . <p> Authorities in Gaza say Israel 's campaign has killed more than 45,000 Palestinians and displaced most of the population of 2.3 million . Much of the coastal enclave is in ruins . <p> 15 Comments <p> By participating in online discussions you acknowledge that you have agreed to the Terms of Service . An insightful discussion of ideas and viewpoints is encouraged , but comments must be civil and in good taste , with no personal attacks . If your comments are inappropriate , you may be banned from posting . Report comments if you believe they do not follow our guidelines.Having trouble with comments ? Learn more here . 
@@119172223 <p> DEIR AL-BALAH , Gaza Strip ( AP ) -- Palestinian medical officials say Israeli strikes across the Gaza Strip have killed at least 22 people , including five children . Meanwhile , Gaza 's small Christian community celebrated a pre-Christmas Mass on Sunday while the ever-present buzz of Israeli drones was heard outside . Israeli authorities allowed a rare Gaza visit by the leader of the Catholic Church in the Holy Land for the Mass . One of the latest Israeli strikes hit a school-turned-shelter in Gaza City , killing at least eight people , including three children . That 's according to Gaza 's Health Ministry . Israel 's military said it struck Hamas militants sheltering in the school . <h> This page requires Javascript . <p> Javascript is required for you to be able to read premium content . Please enable it in your browser settings . <h> Watch this discussion.Stop watching this discussion . <h> ( 0 ) comments <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article . 
@@119180429 <p> Israeli strikes across Gaza kill at least 20 , including five childrenIsraeli strikes across the Gaza Strip overnight and into Sunday killed at least 20 people , including five children , Palestinian medical officials said . <p> Israeli authorities meanwhile allowed Cardinal Pierbattista Pizzaballa , the leader of the Catholic Church in the Holy Land , to enter Gaza and celebrate a pre-Christmas Mass with members of the territory 's small Christian community . <p> A strike on a school housing displaced people in Gaza City killed at least eight people , including three children , according to Gaza 's Health Ministry . The Civil Defense , first responders affiliated with the Hamas-run government , had earlier said four children were among those killed . <p> Sponsor Message <p> The Israeli military said it carried out a precise strike on Hamas militants sheltering there . <p> A strike on a home in the central city of Deir al-Balah late Saturday killed at least eight people , including three women and two children , according to Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital , which received the bodies . A man and his wife were killed in a strike in the southern city of Khan Younis on Sunday , just after midnight , according to the nearby Nasser Hospital . A strike on a car in Gaza City killed two people , according to the Health Ministry . <p> Israel has continued to carry out daily strikes in Gaza more than 14 months into the war with Hamas . It says it only targets militants , accusing them of hiding among civilians , but the bombings frequently kill women and children . <p> Israel and Hamas have recently appeared to draw closer to a ceasefire agreement that would include the release of Israeli hostages and Palestinian prisoners , but several obstacles remain , and the long-running indirect talks have repeatedly stalled . <h> Vatican envoy celebrates Mass with Gaza 's Christians <p> Pope Francis delivers his blessing as he exchanges season greetings with Vatican employees , in the Paul VI Hall at the Vatican , Saturday , Dec. 21 , 2024 . Andrew Medichini/AP/AP hide caption <p> toggle caption <p> Andrew Medichini/AP/AP <p> Dozens of worshippers gathered in the Holy Family Church in Gaza City as Pizzaballa and other clergy celebrated Mass . A Christmas tree was decorated with golden ornaments and twinkling white lights , and altar boys wearing red and white robes held candles . <p> Sponsor Message <p> " For Christmas , we celebrate the light and we are wondering where the light is . This is one of the places where the light is , " Pizzaballa said . <p> The buzz of Israeli drones circling overhead , a sound that has grown ubiquitous across Gaza during the war , could be heard throughout the Mass . <p> The rare visit to Gaza by the Latin Patriarch came a day after Pope Francis had again criticized Israel 's actions in Gaza . Francis said Saturday that his envoy had been unable to enter the territory because of Israeli bombing . <p> " Yesterday children have been bombed . This is cruelty , this is not war , " Francis said during his annual Christmas greetings at the Vatican . <p> The pope recently called for an investigation to determine if Israel 's actions in Gaza constitute genocide , a conclusion later reached by Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch . The International Court of Justice is investigating genocide allegations brought against Israel by South Africa . <p> Israel , which was founded as a refuge for Jews after the Nazi Holocaust , adamantly rejects such allegations . It says it has made great efforts to spare civilians and is only at war with Hamas , which it accuses of genocidal violence in the attack that ignited the war . <h> War grinds on as winter sets in <p> Reda Abu Zarada wraps herself and her grandchildren in blankets as they prepare to sleep in their tent at a camp in Khan Younis , Gaza Strip , Thursday Dec. 19 , 2024 . Abdel Kareem Hana/AP/AP hide caption <p> toggle caption <p> Abdel Kareem Hana/AP/AP <p> Hamas-led militants stormed into southern Israel in a surprise attack on Oct. 7 , 2023 , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and abducting around 250 . Around 100 hostages are still in Gaza , at least a third of whom are believed to be dead . <p> Israel 's subsequent bombardment and ground invasion have killed over 45,000 people in Gaza , more than half of them women and children , according to the Gaza Health Ministry , which does not distinguish between fighters and civilians in its count . <p> The offensive has caused widespread destruction and displaced some 90% of Gaza 's 2.3 million people , often multiple times . Hundreds of thousands are packed into squalid tent camps along the coast as the cold , wet winter sets in . <p> Sponsor Message <p> Israel has been carrying out a major operation in northern Gaza since early October , battling Hamas in the most isolated and heavily damaged part of the territory . Tens of thousands have fled as the military has ordered a complete evacuation and allowed almost no humanitarian aid to enter . <p> The Israeli military body overseeing civilian affairs in Gaza , known as COGAT , said it had facilitated the evacuation of over 100 patients , caregivers and others from the Kamal Adwan Hospital and Al-Awda Hospital in the far north , which have struggled to function . COGAT said it had also facilitated the delivery of 5,000 liters of fuel and food packages to the hospitals . 
@@119180825 <p> She jumps , her eyes closed , and she grins -- this little girl surrounded by gang violence in her own neighborhood in Haiti . The jump rope game she is playing brings out an exuberance in her that the conditions around her can not squelch . <p> Around the planet , so many human beings -- in so many circumstances -- could use this kind of joy . But in a world that offered so much heartache and cataclysm in 2024 , those kinds of feelings can be hard to find and recognize . <p> First-graders attend the traditional ceremony for the first day of school in Zaporizhzhia , Ukraine , Sept. 1 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Evgeniy Maloletka ) AP <p> Palestinians displaced by the Israeli ground offensive on the Gaza Strip play at the makeshift tent camp in Rafah , Jan. 23 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Fatima Shbair ) AP <p> A woman swings on a swing at Venao Beach in Pedasi , Panama , July 13 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Matias Delacroix ) AP <p> A woman carries a gift basket as she arrives at a park to attend a friend 's birthday party , Nov. 24 , 2024 , in Kampala , Uganda . ( AP Photo/David Goldman ) AP <p> Life rushes by , leaving its marks . Moments of joy and wonder , it seems , sometimes must be extracted and pointed out before they disappear . This collection of images by AP photojournalists does exactly that . <p> For every disruptive news story in the world , perhaps there is an equal moment of joy or wonder . But because news is , by definition , things that are out of the ordinary , sometimes everyday moments get lost in the rush of events . <p> These photos , taken together , make a conscious choice to grab at that joy and wonder , and to distill it and recapture it in a concentrated burst -- reminding us that even in dark days , it is still out there . <p> Residents bathe in a dam of the Unda River , ahead of World Water Day , in Klungkung , Bali , Indonesia , March 19 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Firdia Lisnawati ) AP <p> Some , like the little Haiti girl and the image of displaced Palestinian youths playing , demonstrate that even while traveling hard roads , people can find respite . Some , like the photo of a coca vendor at a legal market in Bolivia , demonstrate that smiles can burst forth at any part of the day . <p> A coca vendor works at a legal coca leaf market in La Paz , Bolivia , April 18 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Juan Karita ) AP <p> Icelandic horses play at a stud farm in Wehrheim near Frankfurt , Germany , March 21 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Michael Probst ) AP <p> A child plays at Byzantine-era Hagia Sophia mosque during the first day of Eid al-Adha in Istanbul , Turkey , June 16 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Francisco Seco ) AP <p> Some , like the young people performing a street dance in a Rio de Janeiro favela , or slum , show that exuberance knows no boundaries and will inevitably poke through . And some show the literal joyful footprints of humanity -- as with the footprints on a snow-covered rugby field in Chile that took pains to walk in the shape of a heart . <p> Footprints create the shape of a heart in a snow-covered rugby field in Santiago , Chile , May 8 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Matias Basualdo ) AP <p> A view of The Rink at Rockefeller Center is pictured from several stories up inside Rockefeller Center , Nov. 2 , 2024 , in New York . ( AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin ) AP <p> Friends and family fuss over a quincea ? era in preparation for her photo session at Colon Square in the Zona Colonial neighborhood of Santo Domingo , Dominican Republic , May 15 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Matias Delacroix ) AP <p> Patterns , blown kisses , celebrations of equality , ice skaters , the unself-conscious playing of children , a motorcycle riding against a dramatic sunrise , even a partier reveling in being immersed in a pool of squashed tomatoes -- these images , gathered from all around the world , offer an antidote for much of the rest of 2024 . <p> A member of the Ukrainian Jewish community shows off his dancing moves during Purim celebrations and a festive meal at the Great Choral Synagogue in Kyiv , Ukraine , March 24 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Vadim Ghirda ) AP <p> A man rides his bike over a hill as the sun rises in Frankfurt , Germany , Aug. 9 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Michael Probst ) AP <p> Beverly " Cookie " Grant reacts to the Fanflashtic experience , an operational replica of one constructed at the Woodstock Music and Art Fair , at the Museum At Bethel Woods , June 14 , 2024 , in Bethel , N.Y . ( AP Photo/Julia Nikhinson ) AP <p> They tell us that happiness and exuberance are possible in multiple conditions , even some of the worst ones . And in doing so , they also hint that , at any moment , those good feelings might be possible for us , too . <p> Maijuna youth Arely Riategui smiles while sitting in a hammock inside her home in Sucusari , Peru , May 29 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Rodrigo Abd ) AP <p> A Murui farmer laughs while heading to harvest bananas on her farm located along the proposed route of a federal highway to be built from Iquitos to El Estrecho district , Centro Arenal , Peru , May 28 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Rodrigo Abd ) AP <p> Leonila Arucan , a teacher , dressed in dried banana leaves , participates in the mud festival outside the church of Saint John the Baptist at Bibiclat , Nueva Ecija province , northern Philippines , June 24 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Aaron Favila ) AP <p> <p> Ted Anthony , director of new storytelling and newsroom innovation at The Associated Press , writes frequently about photography . Follow him at http//x.com/anthonyted <p> If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site , we may receive compensation . By using this site , you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks , interactions , and personal information may be collected , recorded , and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy . 
@@119242623 <h> I Used to Love Christmas in Gaza . Now All That 's Left of It Are My Memories . <h> This should be such a joyous time of year . <p> Sign up for the Slatest to get the most insightful analysis , criticism , and advice out there , delivered to your inbox daily . <p> In most years , by this time , the celebrations of the glorious holidays have long been underway in Gaza . The Gaza Strip is a small area inhabited by 2,300,000 citizens , between 1,000 and 1,300 of them Christians who live in safety and peace among the Muslim majority . The area has two of the oldest churches in the world , the Greek Orthodox Church and the Latin monastery . Typically , these places are adorned with the most beautiful and joyful decorations . During this season , hope and love fill Gaza 's streets and the hearts of its people . <p> It starts in mid-November , when the shops begin to put up their Christmas decorations , including in particular many different lights . The malls put up their Christmas trees , which everyone takes their selfies next to ; the streets resound with Christmas songs and New Year receptions , and Christian institutions organize many celebrations that continue throughout the month of December . Everyone wants to attend and participate in these events . The beautiful and pleasant atmosphere all of this creates is why December has long been my favorite month . Each December , I used to make myself a plan and set goals for the following year , and at the end , celebrate the goals I succeeded in achieving and feel proud of what I accomplished . It is the month of my birthday , yes , but it 's also when the story of a whole year ends and the story of a new one begins . <p> The author in December 2022 . Courtesy of Ruwaida Amer <p> Amid such hardship and war , though , the celebrations have disappeared . There are no trees , no holiday lights . What we see now is destruction everywhere , suffering from hunger and bombing instead of living in safety and celebrating the holidays and the coming new year . There is a shadow hanging over all of us where there should be so much joy right now . But it 's important to remember that what 's happening is not normal . I wanted to remember what is , what this time of year should be like . All we have right now of normal life are our memories . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> I am a Muslim , but I have many Christian friends , because I am a journalist and many here know me well by my work . I also work as a teacher in a private Christian school , where I have many Christian colleagues . We coexist in love and tolerance , and we say hello when we see each other on the street . I used to participate in many lovely Christmas events , in the school and outside it . <p> In mid-November , the school principal , a nun , begins decorating the school with Christmas trees . All the corridors and floors are decorated for the holiday . There is a tree at the entrance of every room . She also places a Christmas tree in the green yard opposite the science lab , where I work frequently . I always joke with her and ask her to decorate it with especially beautiful ornaments . This is my tree , and it 's in my favorite place ; it needs special attention . During the break between classes , the students dance to Christmas songs , running happily to join in . The principal buys Christmas sweets and distributes them to the students . Everyone at the school is so happy in December . <p> We used to have the Latin Patriarch visit our school . He comes from Jerusalem to celebrate the holidays with the people of Gaza . He even gives us a small sum of money so that we can buy Christmas gifts for our families . Then we have a dinner or lunch party to greet our Christian colleagues , where we give them gifts . It is a tradition and a memory that brings us all together . At this time of year in Gaza , the feelings of brotherhood between us as Muslims and Christians are strong . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> In my work , I usually care a lot about covering Christmas ; I 've received many invitations to cover the holidays as a journalist . People want to show and share their joy . Many Christians laugh when I call them to coordinate a video or write an article about the holiday so far in advance . It 's true I start reporting on it early , sometimes following plans and preparations a month before Christmas . But it 's worth it . <p> Advertisement <p> In 2017 , I had a job to shoot a video story about the " Barbara " dish . This is a type of food from wheat and nuts that Christians prepare on holidays . The feast of Barbara is on Dec. 16 , which is also my birthday . I spent hours with Mrs. " Maha Tarzi , " who welcomed me into her home and allowed me to shoot a complete story while she was cooking the dish . It was an excellent , different way to spend my birthday . At the end of the shoot , she gave me a delicious plate of the Barbara . Later I met my friend in the mall and told her all about the dish and the lady who made it . So we shared some Barbara , and she loved it , too . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> The Young Men 's Christian Association in Gaza City offers many programs for Christians and Muslims together , but they have special parties during December . They hold a bazaar to display handicrafts made by Christian and Muslim women , including food , textiles , and holiday decorations . There are many different elements to the celebration , including dabke dancing , singing , and clown shows . Another big party at the Y is the lighting of the Christmas tree ; everyone participates . I used to see girls and children running toward the tree every year to take their pictures next to it . So much happiness fills the place . <p> Ruwaida Amer <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> During the nights of the month , the city remains crowded and joyous . You feel like Santa Claus is roaming the streets for the children . Then everyone moves into the churches , even Muslims . It is an official holiday in Palestine . ( Each Christian sect has a different time for prayer ; only some are in December , others in January . ) <p> I 've joined Christians during the holiday prayers myself . We would enter the church , whose door is bright with holiday decorations . The Christians would flock in wearing such beautiful outfits . The holiday 's traditional red and white clothes hold a different spirit than any other time of year . They would shake hands and laugh , celebrate and pray , everyone running toward Santa Claus . My close friends and loved ones would light a candle carrying wishes of love and peace for the new year . <p> Ruwaida Amer <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Now , Christians have fled into churches , because it is their only shelter . Very few of them , only about five families that I know of , were able to flee from the war outside Gaza , but more than 1,000 Christians are still displaced inside the Greek Orthodox Church and the Latin monastery , surviving under the very difficult conditions of the ongoing siege , famine , and bombing . On Oct. 19 of last year , the Greek Orthodox Church was targeted by an Israeli missile . It was already one of the buildings where many Christians were sleeping , and 18 people were killed . <p> Advertisement <p> This incident is still infamous , considered the most difficult that Christians have experienced during the war , even though it was followed by the siege and the advance of tanks around the churches during Israel 's ground operation in the city . It 's not difficult to see why this was such a tragedy for Gaza 's Christians : It deprived them not only of an important and sacred place of worship , but of the joy of their holidays . Last year and this one , celebrating Christmas has become limited to prayers only -- in order to pray for an end to this ongoing war . <h> Related From Slate <p> During these days before Christmas , Christians are supposed to travel to the West Bank to pray in the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem . It is considered the most important eventof the year for them , and they prepare for it annually by submitting permits to the Israeli side in order to obtain the approval they need to go . Bethlehem is regarded as the city of peace and love , one that is decorated in a striking and unique way from the rest of the world as the city where Jesus Christ , peace be upon him , was born . But that city , it 's been reported , is not even able to celebrate Christmas without heavy sorrow hanging over it today . Its celebrations have stopped because of the war in Gaza ; the home of Jesus is now limited only to prayer at Christmastime . Many have told me that they miss their families in Jerusalem and Bethlehem . They have not been able to visit them at all , even for Christmas , for what is now two consecutive years . <p> Advertisement <p> The Christian community is still heartbroken , still hoping that this war will stop soon and that this holiday will be a reason for joy in Gaza again , and that it will mark an end to the killing in it . There is also a big question among all of them : Will we stay in Gaza ? Or will we leave it and look for safety abroad ? <p> Many Christians have plans to emigrate because of the unstable political situation and the continuous wars . They lost their homes and workplaces in Gaza . A few of them were able to leave , but the rest are still living in a state of terror because of the ongoing bombing and ground operations . <p> Among the people killed in the bombing of the Greek Orthodox Church last Oct. 19 was one of my students : a Christian named Issa Al-Suri , only 12 years old . He was bombed while sleeping in the building with his mother and father . The entire family was killed . Issa was a very calm and polite student and was the only child of his parents . His mother , my colleague at school , was a kindergarten teacher and took great care of her child . It was as if she already felt that their lives were short , and would not last long . They left a life in which they did not see justice and humanity and which did not save them from the war . What more needs to be understood than this : Issa was a child , killed in a church , in his parents ' arms . 
@@119242735 <p> It is n't the tallest menorah in New York or the world , but it is n't far off , either . <p> The menorah in Kennedy Plaza in Long Beach reaches 27 feet high and is so tall that rabbis must ride a fire department cherry picker to light the candles . The tallest menorah in the world is 32 feet -- there are two of them in New York City . <p> But beyond friendly debate about the tallest menorah , Jewish leaders say they are an essential symbol of Hanukkah -- which starts Wednesday night -- and an important way to celebrate Jewish pride at one of the most difficult times in Israel 's history . <p> " I think it is important for the Jewish community to have something at the end of the year , " said Rabbi Eli Goodman , head of Chabad of the Beaches , which organizes the menorah event in Long Beach . " While everybody else is celebrating in a very public fashion , the Jewish people need to also celebrate in a very public way . " <p> He expects at least 500 people to attend the lighting of the menorah at 6 p.m. on Thursday , the second night of the eight-day " festival of lights . " There will be fried potato latkes , jelly doughnuts , hot coffee and " parachuting dreidels . " The start of Hanukkah this year coincides with Christmas , so Goodman delayed the event by a day . <p> Jewish people across Long Island are feeling the urge more than ever to celebrate their religion after the Hamas-led attack of Oct. 7 , 2023 , that left 1,200 people dead and 250 taken hostage , community leaders said . A war has raged since then , with Israel killing at least 45,000 people in the Gaza Strip in a counteroffensive , according to the Hamas-run Health Ministry . At least 100 hostages remain in Gaza , according to the Israeli government . <p> " The Jewish people are going through some real existential threats and questions , and it 's a time that pride in our heritage is very , very important , " said Rabbi Tuvia Teldon , head of the Chabad movement on Long Island . " Some Jews have been hiding their Judaism as a result of what is going on in the world with the antisemitism . Do n't hide it , be proud of who you are . " <p> Chabad has been erecting menorahs across Long Island for years , and now has about 100 , he said . A Chabad rabbi who produces the menorahs also provides dozens more to other synagogues , governments , hospitals and local groups , he said . Menorahs can be seen in parks , by highways , in front of government buildings , bridges , sports stadiums , train stations , and in multiple other locations including synagogues themselves . <p> It was n't always that way , Teldon said . The public display of menorahs first started in the United States in the 1970s when an emissary of the then-leader of the worldwide Chabad movement , the Lubavitcher Rebbe Menachem Mendel Schneerson , put one up across the street from the White House , he said . <p> " There were lots of Christmas trees but no public menorahs , " Teldon said . <p> Since then , menorahs have become ubiquitous in many communities on Long Island and around the region and the world . One of the tallest is near Exit 37 on the Long Island Expressway . Another is by the UBS Arena in Elmont . The tallest one in the world is at Fifth Avenue and 59th Street in Manhattan by the Plaza Hotel and Central Park , according to the Guinness Book of World Records . That one is 32 feet high -- the maximum height permitted under Jewish rules . <p> Jewish leaders have erected another one of the same height at Grand Army Plaza in Brooklyn . <p> There are even menorahs in Red Square in Moscow and by the Eiffel Tower in Paris . <p> Menorahs are a centerpiece of Hanukkah , which commemorates what the faithful consider a miracle that happened more than 2,000 years ago . <p> The holiday recognizes the rededication of the sacred Temple of Jerusalem at the time of the Maccabean Revolt of the second century Before the Common Era . <p> After Jewish warriors retook control of the temple from Syrian and Greek soldiers , they found oil for the eternal light in the synagogue , according to the Talmud . The oil appeared to be enough for a day , but the light miraculously burned for eight days . <p> In commemoration , Jews light a candle and shammes , a kindling candle , on the menorah on the first night of Hanukkah and another candle each successive night until the entire menorah is lit . <p> The story , and the festival , carry with them themes of hope , miracles , thanksgiving and religious freedom triumphing over political tyranny . <p> Rick Lewis , chief executive of the Mid-Island Y JCC in Plainview , says he hopes the menorahs and the overlap of Christmas , Hanukkah and Kwanzaa this year can generate more unity among people . <p> The menorahs " are there to bring light to the community , " he said . " We should all celebrate the holidays as one and not be so separated . " <p> It is n't the tallest menorah in New York or the world , but it is n't far off , either . <p> The menorah in Kennedy Plaza in Long Beach reaches 27 feet high and is so tall that rabbis must ride a fire department cherry picker to light the candles . The tallest menorah in the world is 32 feet -- there are two of them in New York City . <p> But beyond friendly debate about the tallest menorah , Jewish leaders say they are an essential symbol of Hanukkah -- which starts Wednesday night -- and an important way to celebrate Jewish pride at one of the most difficult times in Israel 's history . <p> " I think it is important for the Jewish community to have something at the end of the year , " said Rabbi Eli Goodman , head of Chabad of the Beaches , which organizes the menorah event in Long Beach . " While everybody else is celebrating in a very public fashion , the Jewish people need to also celebrate in a very public way . " <p> He expects at least 500 people to attend the lighting of the menorah at 6 p.m. on Thursday , the second night of the eight-day " festival of lights . " There will be fried potato latkes , jelly doughnuts , hot coffee and " parachuting dreidels . " The start of Hanukkah this year coincides with Christmas , so Goodman delayed the event by a day . <p> Sign up for the NewsdayTV newsletter <p> From breaking news to special features and documentaries , the NewsdayTV team is covering the issues that matter to you . <p> Jewish people across Long Island are feeling the urge more than ever to celebrate their religion after the Hamas-led attack of Oct. 7 , 2023 , that left 1,200 people dead and 250 taken hostage , community leaders said . A war has raged since then , with Israel killing at least 45,000 people in the Gaza Strip in a counteroffensive , according to the Hamas-run Health Ministry . At least 100 hostages remain in Gaza , according to the Israeli government . <p> " The Jewish people are going through some real existential threats and questions , and it 's a time that pride in our heritage is very , very important , " said Rabbi Tuvia Teldon , head of the Chabad movement on Long Island . " Some Jews have been hiding their Judaism as a result of what is going on in the world with the antisemitism . Do n't hide it , be proud of who you are . " <p> Chabad has been erecting menorahs across Long Island for years , and now has about 100 , he said . A Chabad rabbi who produces the menorahs also provides dozens more to other synagogues , governments , hospitals and local groups , he said . Menorahs can be seen in parks , by highways , in front of government buildings , bridges , sports stadiums , train stations , and in multiple other locations including synagogues themselves . <p> It was n't always that way , Teldon said . The public display of menorahs first started in the United States in the 1970s when an emissary of the then-leader of the worldwide Chabad movement , the Lubavitcher Rebbe Menachem Mendel Schneerson , put one up across the street from the White House , he said . <p> " There were lots of Christmas trees but no public menorahs , " Teldon said . <p> Since then , menorahs have become ubiquitous in many communities on Long Island and around the region and the world . One of the tallest is near Exit 37 on the Long Island Expressway . Another is by the UBS Arena in Elmont . The tallest one in the world is at Fifth Avenue and 59th Street in Manhattan by the Plaza Hotel and Central Park , according to the Guinness Book of World Records . That one is 32 feet high -- the maximum height permitted under Jewish rules . <p> Jewish leaders have erected another one of the same height at Grand Army Plaza in Brooklyn . <p> There are even menorahs in Red Square in Moscow and by the Eiffel Tower in Paris . <p> Menorahs are a centerpiece of Hanukkah , which commemorates what the faithful consider a miracle that happened more than 2,000 years ago . <p> The holiday recognizes the rededication of the sacred Temple of Jerusalem at the time of the Maccabean Revolt of the second century Before the Common Era . <p> After Jewish warriors retook control of the temple from Syrian and Greek soldiers , they found oil for the eternal light in the synagogue , according to the Talmud . The oil appeared to be enough for a day , but the light miraculously burned for eight days . <p> In commemoration , Jews light a candle and shammes , a kindling candle , on the menorah on the first night of Hanukkah and another candle each successive night until the entire menorah is lit . <p> The story , and the festival , carry with them themes of hope , miracles , thanksgiving and religious freedom triumphing over political tyranny . <p> Rick Lewis , chief executive of the Mid-Island Y JCC in Plainview , says he hopes the menorahs and the overlap of Christmas , Hanukkah and Kwanzaa this year can generate more unity among people . <p> The menorahs " are there to bring light to the community , " he said . " We should all celebrate the holidays as one and not be so separated . " <p> Bart Jones has covered religion , immigration and major breaking news at Newsday since 2000 . A former foreign correspondent for The Associated Press in Venezuela , he is the author of " HUGO ! The Hugo Chavez Story from Mud Hut to Perpetual Revolution . " 
@@119242826 <h> Hanna Katzir , Israeli hostage survivor who spent 49 days in captivity , has died <p> In this photo released by the Israel Ministry of Foreign Affairs , Hanna Katzir is shown . <p> Israel Ministry of Foreign Affairs/Facebook <p> Hanna Katzir , an Israeli hostage survivor who was released last year after 49 days of captivity in Gaza , has died , officials said . <p> Katzir , 78 , struggled with a " complex medical condition " for " many months " after she was released , Kibbutz Nir Oz said in a statement . <p> During Hamas ' surprise terror attack on Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , Katzir was kidnapped from her home and her husband , Rami , was killed in their safe room at Kibbutz Nir Oz , the Hostages and Missing Families Forum Headquarters said . <p> In this photo released by the Israel Ministry of Foreign Affairs , Hanna Katzir is shown . 
@@119243423 <p> He said , " It 's amazing what you can accomplish if you do not care who gets the credit . " <p> Let 's see how Truman 's " Doctrine on Credit " holds up when it comes to the release of hostages held by Hamas terrorists in Gaza . <p> Outgoing President Joe Biden believes in negotiations and that , after months of deadly fighting between Israel and Hamas , he is close to a ceasefire deal between Israel and Hamas that would stop the war and release the hostages . <p> Jake Sullivan , Biden 's national security advisor , says so . " We are looking to close a hostage deal and a ceasefire , which would stop the war and reunite hostages with their families , " he said following a meeting with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu last week . <p> Incoming President Donald Trump , who would replace words with deeds , is blunter . He said that if the hostages , including three Americans , are not released before he is sworn into office Jan. 20 , " There will be hell to pay . " <p> " Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied history of the United States , " he said . <p> He later added , " It 's not going to be pleasant . " <p> If the few remaining leaders of Hamas are still alive in Gaza and can read the rubble , they would be wise to make a deal with " good cop " Biden before facing a harsher outcome with " bad cop " Trump . <p> If Biden and Trump can not on agree on much , they at least could slap each other on the back if a ceasefire/hostage deal is reached before Trump is inaugurated . <p> It would give Biden something to brag about going out the door and Trump something to brag about going in . <p> It is believed that there are still three Americans being held hostage among the 97 or so Israelis still under captivity . Four other Americans are presumed to be dead . The three Americans still alive , who were taken when the Hamas terrorists invaded Israel , are Edan Alexander , Omer Neutra , and Keith Siegel . <p> The current hostage scenario with Iran backed Hamas is like a minor replay of the 1979 Iran hostage crisis that helped topple Democrat President Jimmy Carter and usher in Republican Ronald Reagan as president . <p> The crisis began on Nov 4 , 1979 , when a mass of militant Islamic " students " in a surprise attack broke into the U.S. embassy in Tehran and took all of its 66 occupants hostage . <p> The event initially paralyzed Carter who at the time faced a primary challenge from Sen. Ted Kennedy before he had to square off against Reagan in the 1980 election . <p> Despite economic sanctions and several plans to rescue the hostages , including a botched U.S. military mission ( Operation Eagle Claw ) that cost the lives of eight Americans , the Iranian militants kept the hostages for over a year -- and for the duration of the 1980 presidential campaign . <p> Carter 's inability to win release of the hostages , or his unwillingness to raise the military stakes to gain their release , reflected badly on him and his administration . <p> Despite ongoing backdoor approaches to solve the issue , Carter was looked upon as weak and ineffective , much the way Biden is viewed today . <p> It did not help that the Iranian militants hated Carter for his warm relationship with Shah Muhmmed Reza Pahlavi , the urbane leader of the country . In 1977 , Carter welcomed him to the White House and in a later visit to Tehran , Carter called Iran " an island of stability . " <p> Two years later , the Islamic militants overthrew the shah and took over the country . <p> There were reports that while the Iranians would let the hostages go in exchange for the release of $8 billion in frozen Iranian assets , they would not do so while Carter was president . 
@@119252933 <p> The official added that although the mediators are pressing hard on Hamas to deliver the list , it seems that Mohammed Sinwar , one of the most prominent figures of Hamas in Gaza and the brother of Yahya Sinwar , is refusing to hand over the list . <p> Sinwar is believed to have taken over from his brother as leader of Hamas since Yahya was killed by IDF personnel on October 16 . <p> " It 's still possible to continue talking and advancing some issues without the list , but it will be impossible to reach a breakthrough without it , " the official said . <p> The PMO issued a statement that a working-group delegation is returning from Qatar after more than a week . Illustrative image of Mossad director David Barnea and Qatar 's Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Sheikh Mohammed Bin Abdulrahman al-Thani. ( credit : Canva , FLASH90 , REUTERS , REUTERS/Ibraheem Al Omari/Pool ) <p> " It was a long negotiation , and now there will be consultations , " the official said . " There has been some progress in the talks , but it does n't seem a deal is going to be reached soon . " <p> A senior Israeli official cited in a Walla report clarified that the recall of the team " is not due to a breakdown in negotiations . " <h> Talks not breaking down <p> On Sunday , the security cabinet met for a discussion in the North , and like last week , the ministers were not updated on the talks for the deal as part of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's attempt to limit as much as possible those who know what is really happening in the closed rooms . <p> On Saturday , a Palestinian official participating in the talks told the BBC that the hostage deal and ceasefire negotiations are 90% complete . 
@@119252937 <h> Nicole was told in a meeting that if she was unable to support the October 7 attacks as ' resistance and as something positive , ' then she can no longer work there . <p> An Australian flag is seen hung in a tree burnt by bushfire on the property of farmer Jeff McCole in Buchan , Victoria , Australia ( photo credit : REUTERS/ANDREW KELLY ) <p> A Jewish radio host was fired after she refused to support Hamas and ' pro-Palestinian ' views , Australian Jewish News reported on Tuesday . <p> Nicole , a Jewish Australian with Mexican and Israeli heritage , hosted a Latin American radio show on Radio Skid Row , a community radio station in Sydney , Australia . <p> Thank you @carolinemarcus for sharing this terrible story about the hateful , antisemitic treatment of Jewish woman , Nicole , at Skid Row community radio in Sydney . There must be consequences . https : //t.co/1ORTkS9dqK <p> Originally reported by Sky News Australia on Monday , Nicole explained that in a meeting with Radio Skid Row , she was told that if she was unable to support the October 7 attacks as ' resistance and as something positive ' and if she refused to agree with the hostages being kept in Gaza , then she does not align with the station 's values , and she could no longer work there . <p> Nicole told AJN in an interview that the situation began when she had covered up a ' free Palestine ' sticker before interviewing guests on her show . <p> " There was nothing political at all . We talked about kids and marriage , anecdotes and stuff like that , " said Nicole to AJN . A PRO-PALESTINIAN rally is held outside Sydney Opera House , last month . From Sydney to New York , thousands called for the genocide of millions of Jews , celebrating October 7 as an act of defiance against evil . ( credit : Australian Associated Press/Reuters ) <p> She then explained how the station 's management noticed her covering the sticker and called her into a meeting on Friday . <p> " They expected me to support the Palestinian resistance . I asked them what that means because I did n't want to make assumptions , " she said to AJN . <h> Asked to change her opinion <p> According to Nicole , this is when she was told to change her public opinion on October 7 and Hamas and that she could no longer be openly supportive of freeing the hostages still held captive in Gaza . <p> Nicole told AJN that she refused to deny her beliefs and even attempted to explain the impact of antisemitism that has affected the Jewish community following the attacks by Hamas terrorists . <p> " While I was telling them how this movement , what it 's done to the Jewish community , how it 's reminiscent of the Holocaust , how it 's been really uncomfortable , and we 're scared ... they were laughing at me , " she said . 
@@119258723 <p> WASHINGTON -- Deaths from starvation will likely pass famine levels in northern Gaza as soon as next month owing to Israel 's " near-total blockade " of food and other aid , the U.S.-created global food-crisis monitor said on Tuesday . <p> The finding by the Famine Early Warning System Network appeared to expose a rift within the Biden administration over the extent of starvation in northern Gaza , with the U.S. ambassador to Israel , Jacob Lew , disputing part of the data used in reaching the conclusion and calling the stepped-up famine warning " irresponsible . " <p> Northern Gaza has been one of the areas hardest-hit by fighting and Israel 's restrictions on aid throughout its 14-month war with Hamas militants . Israel at one point increased the number of aid deliveries it permitted into northern Gaza under pressure from President Joe Biden . <p> But the U.N . and aid groups say Israel recently has blocked almost all aid again . Only nine U.N . trucks have been able to bring in food and water over the past 2 ? months , Oxfam says . <p> Israel says it has been operating in recent months against Hamas militants still active in northern Gaza . It says the vast majority of the area 's residents have fled and relocated to Gaza City , where most aid destined for the north is delivered . But some critics , including a former defense minister , have accused Israel of carrying out ethnic cleansing in Gaza 's far north , near the Israeli border . <p> FEWS Net said unless Israel changes its policy , it expects the number of people dying of starvation and related ailments in northern Gaza to reach between two and 15 per day sometime between next month and March . <p> The internationally recognized mortality threshold for famine is two or more deaths a day per 10,000 people . <p> Cindy McCain , the American head of the U.N . World Food Program , in a Dec. 15 appearance on CBS ' " Face the Nation " called for political pressure to get food flowing to Palestinians trapped in north Gaza . <p> " We need unfettered access . We need a ceasefire and we need it now , " she said . " We ca n't ... sit by and just allow these people to starve to death . " <p> FEWS Net was created by the U.S. Agency for International Development in the mid-1980s to warn of global food crises . <p> The United States , Israel 's main backer , provided a record amount of military support in the first year of the war . At the same time , the Biden administration repeatedly urged Israel to allow more access to aid deliveries in Gaza overall , and warned that failing to do so could trigger U.S. restrictions on military support . The administration recently said Israel was making improvements and declined to carry out its threat of restrictions . <p> Military support for Israel 's war in Gaza is politically charged in the United States . Republicans and some Democrats have staunchly opposed any effort to limit U.S. support over the suffering of Palestinian civilians trapped in the conflict . The Biden administration 's reluctance to do more to press Israel for improved treatment of civilians undercut support for Democrats in last month 's elections . <p> Lew , the U.S. ambassador , challenged the famine warning in a posting on social media , saying it was based on " outdated and inaccurate " data . <p> He pointed to uncertainty over how many of the 65,000 people remaining in northern Gaza had fled in recent weeks , saying that skewed the findings . FEWS said its famine assessment holds even if as few as 10,000 remain there . <p> " We work day and night with the U.N . and our Israeli partners to meet humanitarian needs -- which are great -- and relying on inaccurate data is irresponsible , " Lew wrote . <p> AP writers Matthew Lee in Washington and Josef Federman in Jerusalem contributed to this report . 
@@119274434 <p> Endless wars , expensive groceries , extreme weather -- those are just some of the issues in the E section of our index of things we 'd prefer to have skipped in 2024 . So we asked Times Opinion staff members to share how they escaped it all this year . These are the habits we started , the ones we quit , the culture that brought comfort and the memes that made us laugh so hard , we momentarily achieved a state of Zen . This is what we 'll carry with us as we turn the page to 2025 . <p> By New York Times OpinionIllustrations by Stephan Dybus <p> Turn On , Tune In , Drop OutTurn On , TuneIn , Drop Out <p> Phone a Friend <p> My oldest friend and I do synchronized viewing of each new episode of the show ' Shrinking ' ( which follows a rogue therapist and his patients ) and text commentary and our fave quotes back and forth . We definitely want our own Derek . ( IYKYK . ) <p> Michelle Cottle , writer <p> Setting Sail <p> In the dark months of the sailing off-season , I get my fix from theSampson Boat Co . YouTube series . It follows a shipwright and sailor , Leo Goolden , as he rebuilds a historic wooden gaff cutter designed by the renowned yacht designer Albert Strange . From the bowsprit to the capstan , every detail of the boat is lovingly crafted and joyfully documented . This year the team finally launched the boat , and watching it sail in all its glory has been a true joy . <p> Quoctrung Bui , graphics editor <p> LOLs for Days <p> The streaming service Dropout , formerly known as CollegeHumor , offers delightfully smart , unscripted comedy and is my go-to when I need a laugh . <p> Taylor Maggiacomo , graphics editor <p> Got ta Catch ' Em All <p> I got my dose of peace by watching the Netflix show ' Pok ? mon Concierge ' while playing Pok ? mon on my Nintendo Switch . The double distraction blocks any thought from entering your head , and the low-stakes , low-conflict world of cute little guys provides a needed infusion of bliss . <p> Valerie Pavilonis , editorial assistant <p> Oui , Oui <p> ' L'Agence , ' or ' The Parisian Agency , ' is a Netflix reality show about a family-run high-end real estate agency at the edge of Paris . It refreshes my French slang , the B-roll boasts endless views of Paris , and it allows a voyeuristic look into apartments and homes worth millions of euros . <p> Sarah Wildman , writer and editor <p> Downward Dog <p> When the news cycle has my nervoussystem going berserk , a challengingvinyasa series is sometimes the only thingthat keeps me semisane . <p> When the news cycle hasmy nervous system goingberserk , a challenging vinyasaseries is sometimes the onlything that keeps me semisane . <p> Michelle Goldberg , columnist <p> What Goes Around Comes Around <p> JoJo Siwa 's single " Karma " signaled her queer reinvention , from a ponytailed princess into something resembling a Gene Simmons-ified K.D. Lang , but Ms. Siwa 's new persona provoked relentless , unfair bullying from critics and , well , the entire internet . If you can get past her Kidz Bop-style sound , her na ? ve campiness perfectly embodies L.G.B.T.Q. culture . This year I found comfort in her transformation 's implicit story : There 's a greater future ahead if you shamelessly claim it for yourself . <p> Anna Marks , editor <p> Fact or Fiction <p> The novel ' All Fours ' by Miranda July was the most revelatory , exciting book I read this year . <p> Eliza Barclay , climate editor <p> Night-Night at the Museum <p> If my mind is too busy to sleep at night , I turn on the Met 's YouTube art lectures -- the longer , the better . The videos ' tone is soothing , and the content helps me connect with something beautiful and interesting from another time or place . Once my mind is immersed in , say , Greek vase paintings , I 'm out like a light . <p> Jessia Ma , deputy editor of design <p> Check Mate <p> I 'm still a pretty terrible player , but spending 30 minutes playing virtual chess with a stranger on the Chess app makes for a better commute than yet another half-hour wasted on Instagram . <p> Emily Holzknecht , video producer <p> You Are Getting Very Sleepy <p> I have learned to relax the tiny musclesaround my eyes . I visualize the muscles and gently tell them to let go , one by one.They do ! And then I feel a deep calm . It 's a great way to go back to sleep at night . <p> I have learned to relax thetiny muscles around my eyes . I visualize the musclesand gently tell them to let go , one by one . They do ! And then I feel a deep calm.It 's a great way to go backto sleep at night . <p> Peter Coy , writer <p> Wake and Bake <p> This year , as ever , I found distraction and refuge in the stalwart comforts of ' The Great British Baking Show . ' It wo n't be lost on future cultural historians that a decade of unceasing global tumult coincided with the sturdy popularity of a TV series about a bunch of collegial normies in a tent in the English countryside , seemingly far from society , being nice to one another and baking pies . <p> Adam Sternbergh , culture editor <p> This Ai n't Texas <p> Nobody needs this recommendation -- Beyonce ' ' s album ' Cowboy Carter ' -- but it has become my go-to , regardless of my mood . I start humming some tracks before they even begin . I look forward to the reformulations of classics like Dolly Parton 's " Jolene " and the Beatles ' " Blackbird " and the nods throughout to greats like Linda Martell and Patsy Cline . What makes me smile every time is the quiet confidence Willie Nelson exudes ( and , behind the scenes , Beyonc ? herself ) in his interludes . " And go to the good place your mind likes to wander off to , " he counsels . " And if you do n't want to go , go find yourself a jukebox . " <p> Kathleen Kingsbury , Opinion Editor <p> Record Scratch <p> Amid the slop of artificial intelligence , thereare diamonds : deepfake audio recordings ofpresidents singing karaoke . Donald Trumpcroons . Joe Biden joins in on a second verse.Frank Sinatra and Queen . Mariachi andmusicals . The Carpenters -- Karen andRichard and Sabrina . For just a moment in thealgorithmic feed , politics is harmonious . <p> Amid the slop of artificialintelligence , there arediamonds : deepfake audiorecordings of presidentssinging karaoke . DonaldTrump croons . Joe Bidenjoins in on a second verse.Frank Sinatra and Queen.Mariachi and musicals.The Carpenters -- Karenand Richard and Sabrina.For just a moment in thealgorithmic feed , politics isharmonious . <p> Rollin Hu , researcher <p> Rom-Com Binge <p> Given the scale of violence in Gaza and the fallout from it in the United States , it 's a weird moment for ' Nobody Wants This , ' the Netflix series about a blond shiksa podcaster ( Kristen Bell ) who falls in love with a rabbi ( Adam Brody ) . I kept waiting for the series to grapple with the issues in Israel and Gaza , but the moment never arrived . Maybe that 's part of the charm : The series is a fantasy about how true love can transform us . <p> Farah Stockman , editorial board member <p> Learn a LittleSomething <p> Bonjour Duo <p> I have a 1,726-day ( and counting ) streak on Duolingo French -- screen time I do n't have to feel bad about . <p> Lauren Leibowitz , editor <p> Perception Deception <p> I love everything Alfonso Cuar ? n does , and that 's held true for his TV series ' Disclaimer . ' On the surface , it seems like a soapy tale of infidelity and betrayal , but it 's actually a deeper , " Rashomon " -like examination of how our biases shape the way we interpret events and then create stories out of them . It 's the kind of show you immediately want to rewatch when it 's done . <p> Pamela Paul , columnist <p> Our Lips Are Sealed <p> I loved ' Say Nothing , ' the TV series based on Patrick Radden Keefe 's book about the Troubles . Both actresses who play the I.R.A . bomber Dolours Price -- young and older -- are amazing . <p> Maureen Dowd , columnist <p> Go for Gold <p> I ca n't stop rewatching clips of Novak Djokovicwinning his first Olympic gold medal afterchasing one for over a decade . I do n't know muchabout tennis or Mr. Djokovic , but I do n't need to . The joy that he radiates as he collapses onto thecourt in tears and then bounds through the crowdto see his family transports me every time . <p> I ca n't stop rewatchingclips of Novak Djokovicwinning his first Olympicgold medal after chasing onefor over a decade . I don'tknow much about tennisor Mr. Djokovic , but I don'tneed to . The joy that heradiates as he collapses ontothe court in tears and thenbounds through the crowdto see his family transportsme every time . <p> Glyn Fox , editor <p> La Dolce Vita <p> The novel ' Last Summer in the City ' by Gianfranco Calligarich is a master class in dissociation . Avoidant lovers , alcoholic friends , an uncertain career in journalism -- this book has it all . <p> Frank Augugliaro , design director <p> Feline Friendship <p> My husband and I had two cats for many years , but one -- our beloved Stanley -- died last year.The surviving cat needed a friend , but I washesitant : When you adopt a cat , you adopt all itsweird , sometimes destructive and annoyingbehaviors , too . I finally gave in , and now I 'm notsure how I would 've gotten through the electionwithout our new funny , fuzzy goober . Just lookingat him lowers my blood pressure . <p> My husband and I hadtwo cats for many years , butone -- our belovedStanley -- died last year.The surviving cat needed afriend , but I was hesitant:When you adopt a cat , youadopt all its weird , sometimesdestructive and annoyingbehaviors , too . I finally gavein , and now I 'm not surehow I would 've gotten throughthe election without ournew funny , fuzzy goober.Just looking at him lowers myblood pressure . <p> Lauren Kelley , editor <p> Pelican State Politics <p> Nancy Lemann 's ' The Ritz of the Bayou ' is a hallucinatory , gin-soaked account of the trials of the former Louisiana governor Edwin Edwards . <p> Parker Richards , editor <p> Olde English <p> The novels of Anthony Trollope pulled me away into a tranquil setting in the 19th-century English countryside populated by squires , churchmen and minor nobility . The milieu is rarefied and the language gentle , but the matters are serious : ambition , arrogance , resentment , love . Trollope has a charming habit of finding the positive in his most odious characters , and there is something calming about how he injects his authorial voice into the narrative , like a confiding friend . <p> Dan Wakin , international editor <p> Escapist Dark Humor <p> The books of David Rakoff , particularly " Half Empty . " Hyperarticulate , hilarious and eerily prescient . <p> Leissa Jackmauh , administrative manager <p> Enter the Void <p> When I checked out Doug Wheeler 's latest exhibit , ' Day Night Day , ' at the David Zwirner gallery , I walked into an empty , glowing , immaculately white room . I kept my eyes trained forward , and the light seemed to radiate through the space , which has no corners or edges . As I walked in , my depth perception became warped , and I lost my sense of spatial awareness . I raised my arms , afraid I might run into something or perhaps fall off the edge . I 'd like to keep that sense of wonder and timid delight as I move forward into the unknown next year . <p> Jessie Wender , photo editor <p> ' Concerning the U.F.O. Sighting Near Highland , Illinois ' <p> I worried that ' Illinoise , ' the musical based on the 2005 Sufjan Stevens album " Illinois , " was just a ploy to make money off millennial nostalgia . But " Illinoise " was just so well done -- infusing new and bold artistry into a stream of songs . Though the music was familiar , I responded to it in an entirely new way . <p> Neel Patel , health and science editor <p> The ThingsWe Quit <p> It 's Giving ' 90s <p> I 've been ditching my smartphone every Saturday in a ritual I 've dubbed No-Scroll Saturday . Want to listen to music ? Put on a record . Read the news or cook dinner ? Grab a newspaper or a cookbook . I do allow myself to call my mom or look up directions . The one sacrosanct rule : Do n't scroll . <p> Alexander Stockton , video journalist <p> Home Envy <p> I found a level of peace and serenity I did n't know I was missing when I finally kicked my habit of browsing property websites for fancy houses I had no intention ( or means ) to buy . <p> George Pierpoint , audience editor <p> Piano Over Podcasts <p> I 've started listening to classical music in the morning instead of jumping immediately into news podcasts the way I once did . It creates a peaceful , slightly romantic way to start the day . <p> Cornelia Channing , editorial assistant <p> Hard to Zip <p> In 2024 I accepted that I am an overpacker . Small bags just do not work for me . I need space for my portable bidet , mini prayer mat , four lip glosses , dental hygiene supplies , a snack , hand creams , sticky notes , phone wipes and much , much more . <p> Hibaq Farah , audience editor <p> Lose Yourself <p> When it comes to humor , I choosestupidity . This video of a toothbrush covering Eminem 's " Lose Yourself " foundme on Instagram , and I 'm grateful for it . <p> When it comes to humor , I choose stupidity . This videoof a toothbrush coveringEminem 's " Lose Yourself " found me on Instagram , andI 'm grateful for it . <p> Rose Adams , editorial assistant <p> Do n't Ask Me <p> To combat the feeling of being overwhelmed that comes with endless daily decisions , I outsourced some by asking friends for recommendations and following them . I 've added music to my playlists , purchased art , tried ( and fell in love with ) oysters and added healthy habits to my routine . Saying yes to their suggestions has made my life richer . <p> Alexandra March , audience director <p> Go Touch Grass <p> After a year of nonstop news , the fields andforested trails that weave through Rock CreekPark in Washington , D.C. , have become theperfect reprieve from the endless notificationsand stress of everyday life . <p> After a year of nonstopnews , the fields and forestedtrails that weave through RockCreek Park in Washington , D.C. , have become the perfectreprieve from the endlessnotifications and stress ofeveryday life . <p> Andrew Trunsky , editorial assistant <p> The ThingsWe Started <p> Impromptu Hangs <p> Like many middle-aged people , my schedule is both packed and unpredictable . I used to think the best way to see friends was making explicit time for them days or weeks in advance . But inevitably , something gets in the way -- a sick kid , an extra work deadline -- and that long-awaited hang gets canceled . I have had way more luck randomly texting my local pals with an hour 's notice . <p> Jessica Grose , writer <p> Water Into Wine <p> These difficult days , it 's wonderfully distracting to tend the cider apples and wine grapes on our family farm . In my day job , I shout at the world , and it pays no attention ; on the farm , the grapes obediently turn into fine pinot noir . It is refreshing to duck from a world whose problems seem overwhelming and find my own nook with problems that are solvable -- and when solved can be celebrated with a glass of pinot . <p> Nicholas Kristof , columnist <p> Motorcycle Diaries <p> This year , I bought a Triumph Bonneville and keep it in Southern Indiana , where I regularly spend time . Riding country roads and rolling hills led me to conversations I never would have had otherwise -- with the burley Harley rider by the lake , the couple at the gas station or the young girl who also always dreamed of having a bike of her own . <p> Kristen Cruzata , chief of staff <p> Am I the Problem ? <p> Right before dropping off to sleep , I like to readthe sometimes silly , sometimes weightyconundrums people face in the r/AITAHsubreddit and r/amiwrong . It 's a fun , low-stakesway of asking myself : How would I approachthis ? Does my judgment match up withthe crowdsourced wisdom ? <p> Right before dropping offto sleep , I like to read thesometimes silly , sometimesweighty conundrums peopleface in the r/AITAHsubreddit and r/amiwrong.It 's a fun , low-stakes way ofasking myself : How would Iapproach this ? Does myjudgment match up with thecrowdsourced wisdom ? <p> Liriel Higa , director of audience <p> Pick a Card , Any Card <p> Every morning , I choose a card from Oblique Strategies , a card set created by Brian Eno and Peter Schmidt in 1975 to help break creative blocks . Prompts range from " Use an old idea " to questions like " What would your closest friend do ? " and occasionally surreal statements like " In total darkness , or in a very large room , very quietly . " <p> Jacqueline Bates , photography director <p> ' Challengers ' IRL <p> It 's been over two decades since I tried a new sport . Learning to play tennis has been humbling , but it has provided solace in a chaotic year . The achievement , I 've learned , is just finding joy through play . <p> Adrienne Shih , audience editor <p> Shred the Gnar <p> When I began kite surfing , I questioned why anyone would ever do something so difficult . It felt like taking a geometry and anemology course and simultaneously doing cardio and a functional body workout , all while calling on muscle memory . And yet when it all connects , I 'm flying on autopilot on the water . You suddenly feel you can do anything in life . <p> Adam Ellick , head of video <p> D ? j ? Vu <p> I do n't have a great memory , and I often forget the content of a book once I finish it . I 've started writing down quotes and leaving them in books when I 'm done reading them . I keep a little bookshelf of my favorite books , with handwritten notes sprouting from most of them . When I pluck the bookmarks and read the scribbled quotes , I get instant access to the feeling I had reading it . <p> Efim Shapiro , audio engineer <p> One Stitch at a Time <p> Needlepoint instantly clears my mind of any worry beyond where I am going to stitch next . The more detailed and fussy the design , the more I enjoy it . <p> Suein Hwang , business editor <p> Dewey Decimal <p> Growing up , I moved around a few times . In each new place , my mom would get both of us cards at the local library . As an adult , I 've rekindled my love for libraries , but it 's more than just books . It 's one of the last places you can enrich your life for free . <p> Daniela Cobos , editorial fellow <p> Scratch and Sniff <p> I love perfumes , but when I 'm onFragrantica -- the online home of aromalovers -- I have little interest in smellingor purchasing most of what I 'm readingabout . The pleasure comes entirely from reading attempt after attempt ataccomplishing the impossible : conveyingscent through words alone . <p> One-day choirs assembled by theGaia Music Collective bring together hundreds of people to learn and perform arrangements in just a few hours . You do n't need singing experience to participate . Making harmonies with strangers is a welcome reprieve from our self-involved culture . <p> Madi Winfield , audience editorial assistant <p> Good Sport <p> Wednesday is mahjong day : Each week , I 'm either teaching someone about the complex game or learning as I lose to someone better than me . Either way , I become a more strategic player . <p> Sonia Herrero , audio engineer <p> Eating OurFeelings <p> Spoonful of Sugar <p> Putting sugar in my coffee . Austerity is out . Smallness and sweetness -- a teaspoon of turbinado -- is in . <p> Mary Marge Locker , editor <p> Pass the Presidential Casserole <p> Cooking through Dwight D. Eisenhower 's personal cookbook is not for the faint of heart -- my guests are still recovering from the cavernous melon stuffed with Jell-O and grapes -- but what started as a culinary curiosity has brought me immense joy and become a delightful way to bring friends together . <p> Kiana Cole , video producer <p> Shaken , Not Stirred <p> Fresh watermelon juice , gin , Lillet rose , a highball glass . I do n't know what else there is to say . <p> Krista Mahr , international editor <p> Tea Time <p> Tea is great . Tea with biscuits ? Better . But what about biscuit-flavored tea ? For a gimmicky product , Yorkshire Tea 's Malty Biscuit Brew is shockingly subtle -- more malty than actively biscuity but still biscuity enough to live up to the promise on its package : " biscuity goodness that does n't get crumbs on your jumper . " You wo n't get better momentary peace without a prescription . <p> Alicia Wittmeyer , editor <p> Medium-Rare <p> Technically I ca n't blame a cookbook for my 15-point increase in LDL cholesterol , but the recipes of ' Meat Illustrated , ' a cookbook dedicated to meat , probably have something to do with it . <p> Raina Raskin , editorial assistant <p> Lessons Fromthe Past <p> ' Gatsby ' Times Three <p> " The Great Gatsby " left me cold when I read it in high school , but ' Gatz , ' the Elevator Repair Service 's seven-hour dramatization of the novel is -- like the rich -- different . I 've seen " Gatz " three times , and on every viewing , I 've been absorbed by Fitzgerald 's examination of Americans ' conflicted attitudes toward wealth and the elite , a conflict on vivid display in this year 's election . <p> Carmel McCoubrey , editor <p> Once Upon a Time in America <p> Over the summer I found a copy of J. Anthony Lukas 's ' Common Ground ' in a little free library . It 's an immersive masterpiece in nonfiction that helps make sense of American life today , even though it was published 40 years ago . <p> Jillian Weinberger , audio producer <p> Staring at the Sun <p> When the workday is over and I 'm not ready totackle adulting , I head to a pier near my SanFrancisco home . From this windy , run-down spot , you can wedge in between the fishermen catching crabs and sardines to glimpse the sunset andmigrating whales . Then , cold and refreshed , Ihead home wishing I knew how to catch dinner . <p> When the workday is overand I 'm not ready to tackleadulting , I head to a pier nearmy San Francisco home.From this windy , run-downspot , you can wedge inbetween the fishermencatching crabs and sardinesto glimpse the sunset andmigrating whales . Then , cold and refreshed , Ihead home wishing I knewhow to catch dinner . <p> Joanna Pearlstein , print editor <p> Everyday Ecstasy <p> Simon Critchley 's new book , ' Mysticism , ' has been on my night table for months . He is the rare philosopher who does n't flinch at religious experience . And this book does something miraculous : It saves the baby of mysticism from the discarded bathwater of institutional religion . It reminds us that our attention matters , that even in our fractured digital age , ecstasy is possible . That 's not religious hokum . It 's practical , and most of us need reminders of it every day . <p> Peter Catapano , editor <p> Autocrats of Yore <p> ' The Oppermanns , ' a novel written in 1933 by Lion Feuchtwanger , revolves around the rise of the Nazis in Germany and the responses of one Jewish family -- the Oppermanns , the owners of a furniture company -- and the people around them . The book exerted such a pull on my psyche that I have been recommending it whenever the topic of books or reading or Nazis or danger has come up in conversation . Almost a century later , " The Oppermanns " remains resonant , no matter the country or the autocrat. 
@@119274726 <p> The Palestinian militant group Hamas and Israel traded blame on Wednesday over their failure to conclude a ceasefire agreement despite progress reported by both sides in past days . <p> Hamas said that Israel had laid down further conditions , while Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu accused the group of going back on understandings already reached . <p> " The occupation has set new conditions related to withdrawal , ceasefire , prisoners , and the return of the displaced , which has delayed reaching the agreement that was available , " Hamas said . <p> It added that it was showing flexibility and that the talks , mediated by Qatar and Egypt , were serious . <p> Netanyahu countered in a statement : " The Hamas terrorist organization continues to lie , is reneging on understandings that have already been reached , and is continuing to create difficulties in the negotiations . " <p> Israeli negotiators returned to Israel from Qatar on Tuesday evening for consultations about a hostage deal after a significant week of talks , Netanyahu 's office said on Tuesday . <p> The U.S. and Arab mediators Qatar and Egypt have stepped up efforts to conclude a phased deal in the past two weeks . One of the challenges has been agreements on Israeli troop deployments . <p> Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz , speaking with commanders in southern Gaza , said on Wednesday that Israel will retain security control of the enclave , including by means of buffer zones and controlling posts . <p> Hamas is demanding an end to the war , while Israel says it wants to end Hamas ' rule of the enclave first , to ensure it will no longer pose a threat to Israelis . <h> Israel keeps up military pressure <p> Meanwhile Israeli forces kept up pressure on the northern Gaza Strip , in one of the most punishing campaigns of the 14-month war , including around three hospitals on the northern edge of the enclave , in Beit Lahiya , Beit Hanoun and Jabalia . <p> Palestinians accuse Israel of seeking to permanently depopulate northern Gaza to create a buffer zone . Israel denies this and says it has instructed civilians to leave those areas for their own safety while its troops battle Hamas militants . <p> Israeli strikes killed at least 24 people across Gaza on Wednesday , health officials said . One strike hit a former school sheltering displaced families in Gaza City 's suburb of Sheikh Radwan , they added . <p> The Israeli military said it struck a Hamas militant operating in the area of Al-Furqan in Gaza City . <p> Several Palestinians were killed and wounded in the Al-Mawasi area , an Israeli-designated humanitarian zone in southern Gaza , where the military said it was targeting another Hamas operative . <p> The war was triggered by Hamas ' Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack on southern Israel , in which 1,200 people were killed and 251 taken hostage to Gaza , according to Israeli tallies . <p> Israel 's campaign against Hamas in Gaza has since killed more than 45,300 Palestinians , according to health officials in the Hamas-run enclave . Most of the population of 2.3 million has been displaced and much of Gaza is in ruins . 
@@119274823 <p> " Silent Night " is one of the most popular Christmas hymns , often sung in churches lit only by candles . The song describes a " tender and mild " infant Christ slumbering undisturbed in " heavenly peace . " Another beloved hymn , " Away in a Manger , " also focuses on the theme of divine serenity : It speaks of animals making noises but the child Christ being different . " The cattle are lowing , " goes one verse . " The baby awakes / But little Lord Jesus , no crying he makes . " Countless paintings hang in museums showing the manger scene as peaceful , with Mary gazing beatifically at her calm , still baby . <p> I bear no particular grudge against seekers of peace , nor do I desire to play the Scrooge around visions of Jesus that bring people joy . Nonetheless , I ca n't help but notice that these depictions of Jesus 's first nights with his parents stand in stark contrast to most children 's early days . <p> " Silent Night " depictions of Christ 's birth are unrealistic , as plastic as decorations that appear on lawns every December , as staged as the declarations of love at the end of a Hallmark Christmas movie . And these versions of the Nativity miss something essential : the humanity of Jesus . <p> Though neither of the Gospel accounts of Christ 's birth describes him crying , the Gospel of Luke says that Jesus " grew up , " which implies that he went through the typical stages of development . As an adult , he experienced a normal range of emotions : He wept at the death of a friend ( John 11:35 ) , experienced fatigue after a long day of travel ( John 4:6 ) , and was anguished at the thought of his impending crucifixion ( Luke 22:44 ) . The writer of the Letter to the Hebrews , looking back over the life of Jesus , says that he was " tempted in every way , just as we are -- yet he did not sin " ( Hebrews 4:15 ) . Based on all this , as a scholar of the New Testament I feel confident that Jesus must have behaved like an ordinary baby . <p> And as a father , I know how babies behave . My wife and I have four children , and at some point during each birth , I feared for the safety of my wife , the child , or both . These infants ' first moments in the world were anything but serene . They cried and wailed ; they peed and pooped . What brought on those tears ? Were they cold ? Hungry ? In need of a new diaper or simply physical touch , to be held and comforted ? We did n't know . I imagine that Mary and Joseph felt a similar disorientation . <p> The Christmas story is about God becoming a child , but not in the sense that an infant had all the knowledge and power of God squeezed into a baby form . It 's not about divine shape-shifting . It 's about divine limitation , humility , and weakness . A crying , unsettled Jesus who soiled himself like any other baby captures the central miracle that Christmas proposes . For the Christian , God became one of the hungry , cold , dirty , and often-lonely people of the world . He is not detached from us ; he is one of us . Once God joined our number , he infused us with fresh dignity . The Church can never rightly turn its attention away from the needy , be they infants or adults , because it worships a God who made himself needy . <p> Silence might not be the best way to describe that first Christmas , but there is something these hymns get correct . Jesus does not utter actual words . In a world weary of religious speech , Christmas is the celebration of an act . That act is the display of divine vulnerability taking on the complete helplessness of a child . God wraps himself not in strength and power , but in weakness . That idea that true power comes not through the exercise of it , but in setting it aside , seems as unbelievable in the 21st century as it did in the first . Stated differently , most Christians are not ready to take on the full implications of the Christmas story . <p> Today , many Americans -- Christians very much included -- believe that strength and power come from money or political influence or military might . That is why , the thinking goes , Christians must cozy up to the presidency and keep some fleeting favored status : to gain protection from the gathering dark . What good can a baby do against enemies foreign and domestic ? Of what use is a manger to a Christian nationalist ? <p> The Church has lost its connection to the tears of infants and the moans of adults . Christians are too often little more than another voting bloc caught up in the same struggle for national power as everyone else . Christmas reminds Christians like me that we should set aside our quest for earthly power and instead entrust our future to a God who joined his tears to ours , both in his nativity and later upon the cross . <p> Our lives and our world are not oceans of calm . There is weeping in Ukraine , Gaza , Sudan ; at the border ; in the city and the countryside . Maybe pondering a frightened Mary , a distressed Joseph , and a crying Jesus will allow us to set aside our own facades . If God was willing to put on weakness , that might free us to recognize our own . 
@@119277227 <h> Select an option below to continue reading this premium story . <h> Get unlimited access <p> It 's Christmas Day , and most people , regardless of religious affiliation , see this as a hopeful season . In the northern hemisphere , wintry darkness gave rise to various celebrations that have light at their center : Christmas and Hanukkah are only two of the best-known examples . Even the winter solstice signifies days offering more hours of sunlight , at last . <p> Politically , this has been a dark time , with wars raging on in Gaza and Ukraine and numerous conflict zones less prominent in western headlines -- Myanmar , Sudan and Yemen among these . <p> Further , Americans are just emerging from a contentious campaign year . And worldwide , elections generally have up-ended the incumbent leadership in many countries , raising uncertainty and instability . <p> People have despaired at finding hope in all this fighting . But then on the morning of Dec. 8 in Syria , following a lightning-fast revolution , the ouster of the Assad family signaled that decades of harsh , dictatorial rule had come to a stunning end . <p> Without a doubt , the history of this moment wo n't be written for years , even for generations . The Assads have fled to Russia , and leaders of the Syrian rebel group in the most prominent position , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , have indicated a preference now for moderation in forming a new government . <p> In the past , HTS has been regarded as a terrorist group , a branding that will take actions , not mere words , to remove for the long term . Rebellion and governance have requirements that do n't often align well , and creating the institutions that safeguard the rights of Syria 's diverse minorities demands persistent effort and real commitment . <h> Do n't miss out on what 's happening ! <p> Stay in touch with top news , as it happens , conveniently in your email inbox . It 's FREE ! <p> Still , simply witnessing the joy of newly liberated people who have endured so much is encouraging , to be sure . They have hope for a better future , with a new year that offers them such promise . <p> Here at home , America is having its own make-it-work moment . Despite a partisan divide that is still sharply drawn , the advent of a second term for President-elect Donald Trump is being met , for now , with a bit more of wait-and-see rather than the broad resistance of 2017 . <p> Naturally , protest is anticipated , based on the deportations and other radical changes that Trump has pledged to carry out . And some of his opposition seems more resigned to such changes than engaged with them . <p> But democracy is by definition a messy enterprise , and it wo n't do to sit on the sidelines . As has been seen globally , simply holding elections is not the endpoint of democracy , sometimes serving only as a cover for an autocracy . <p> Retreating inward may seem like a natural reaction to a political outcome that disappointed about half this country , but it 's the least effective . The more enlightened path forward is to watch and listen to what 's proposed , and then to counter with a rational response . <p> Hawaii 's congressional representatives have the most direct routes to accomplish that , but everyone can contribute , often locally , to help meet community needs that arise . <p> And as the New Year approaches , America has a supportive role to play for the newly freed , such as those in Syria , and for those still suffering from violence to recover . Peace on Earth is the phrase so often used during these holidays ; it is an elusive virtue to pursue . <p> But this definitely is the season to embrace that pursuit , whether the opportunity arises in the far-off Middle East or in our own back yard . So much about living in a complex world is wearying and distressing that the first green shoots of peace are to be celebrated . <p> Hope can be fleeting , but it also can be nurtured . At the very least , hope is a wonder , and we 're happy to have it , especially at this time . 
@@119277229 <h> Select an option below to continue reading this premium story . <h> Get unlimited access <p> I watched Amy Goodman 's award-winning news hour " Democracy Now ! " on ' Olelo TV just days ago . An articulate and desperate Palestinian-American gentleman with relatives in Gaza struggling to live even one more day discoursed about the " unlivability " of Gaza for now many , many months . <p> He cited " no clean water , " " no sewage infrastructure , " etc . He concluded with the lament that girls and women have no chance to attend to their menstrual needs . <p> I can not express how empathetically angry that made me -- a widower , the father of two daughters , the grandfather of a granddaughter . May the obedient servant USA and malevolent colonial Zionist Israel be damned . <p> Robert H. Stiver <p> Pearl City <p> EXPRESS YOURSELF <h> Do n't miss out on what 's happening ! <p> Stay in touch with top news , as it happens , conveniently in your email inbox . It 's FREE ! 
@@119304924 <h> Hamas official says terror group wo n't hand over list of living hostages until ceasefire agreement <p> A senior Hamas official has denied reports that the Gaza-based terrorist group is refusing to provide a full list of the living hostages , according to Qatar 's Al-Araby Al-Jadeed news outlet . <p> The official explained that Hamas has already provided a partial list but is facing difficulties in contacting other terrorist groups responsible for holding the captives . <p> Israeli estimates indicate there are 100 hostages in Gaza , 64 of whom are believed to be alive . <p> The official rejected earlier Israeli reports claiming that Mohammed Sinwar , the de facto leader of Hamas 's " military wing " in Gaza and brother of the slain leader Yahya Sinwar , is being inflexible and unwilling to provide a complete list of the living hostages . <p> Khalil al-Hayya , acting chairman of the Hamas political bureau , gives speech on Aug. 1 , 2024 . Anadolu via Getty ImagesFamilies and supporters holding signs at a rally in Tel Aviv , calling for the Israeli government to negotiate a hostage deal with Hamas , Dec. 21 , 2024 . Middle East Images/AFP via Getty Images <p> " Hamas has engaged in talks with the other factions holding the hostages , but due to the situation in Gaza , it is impossible to contact all the organizations . Hamas has confirmed that it will provide a full list of the living hostages once the situation stabilizes and after a ceasefire , " the official stated , as translated by Ynet . <p> The senior Hamas official claimed that the " military " wing operates in full coordination with its political leadership , with complete alignment between the two . He added that the " military " wing has authorized Khalil al-Hayya , acting chairman of the Hamas political bureau , to lead the negotiating delegation , granting him the power to make decisions as he sees fit . 
@@119304938 <h> Humanitarian aid stacks up at Gaza border as relief organizations wo n't deliver out of fear of Hamas , violent looters <p> KEREM SHALOM CROSSING , Gaza -- Thousands of pallets of humanitarian aid stacked at the Gaza border -- from sacks of flour to blankets and canned food -- are awaiting delivery by relief organizations that are unwilling to send supply trucks likely to be looted by Hamas terrorists and other street criminals . <p> The aid , coming in on trucks from Jordan , Egypt and the West Bank , has already been inspected by the Israel Defense Forces before entering Gaza , where the international community and humanitarian organizations are in charge of delivering the assistance to Palestinians . <p> But the path from the Israel-Gaza border to where the aid is needed in the central and north is long -- and repeatedly targeted by violent thieves . <p> Thousands of pallets of humanitarian aid stacked at the Gaza border are awaiting delivery by relief organizations that are unwilling to send supply trucks likely to be looted by Hamas terrorists and other street criminals . Caitlin Doornbos/NY Post <p> At least one driver is shot each day in Gaza by looters forcibly stopping aid trucks to pull off whatever they can to make a profit in the middle of the devastated war zone , an IDF spokesperson told The Post . <p> At least 1,100 trucks have gone into Gaza in December , IDF head of coordination and liaison administration for Gaza Col. Abdullah Halabi said , but it 's unclear how many made it to their final destinations . <p> At least 1,100 trucks have gone into Gaza in December , IDF head of coordination and liaison administration for Gaza Col. Abdullah Halabi said , but it 's unclear how many made it to their final destinations . Caitlin Doornbos/NY Post <p> " The road out of this crossing has not been safe for months , " it said . " The delivery of humanitarian aid must never be dangerous or turn into an ordeal . " <p> But instead of calling out the rampant violence , increasing its own security , or coordinating with other groups to get the aid where it 's needed , the organization blamed Israel for causing the situation , citing its " ongoing siege , political decisions to restrict the amounts of aid , lack of safety on aid routes and targeting of local police . " <p> They further claimed that it was Israel 's responsibility to protect aid workers and supplies in Gaza before calling for a ceasefire UNRWA alleged would " secure the delivery of safe and uninterrupted aid to people in need . " <p> On Dec. 1 , the United Nations Relief Workers Agency ( UNRWA ) announced its suspension of aid deliveries through Kerem Shalom , citing the taking of aid trucks by armed gangs . Majdi **27;1104;TOOLONG <p> Israel denied the allegations , inviting reporters on a trip last week to view the humanitarian aid bottleneck created by the lack of drivers . <p> During The Post 's visit , shelling and gunfire were heard in the distance . <p> " From the Israeli perspective , there is no limit to the trucks coming into Gaza . The main obstacle , the main challenge , is the international community 's capabilities to conduct distribution , " Halabi said . <p> The aid includes sacks of flour , blankets , canned food and other necessities . Caitlin Doornbos/NY Post <p> But to help facilitate the safe transfer of aid , Israel opened the Philadelphi corridor for the safe passage of 300 trucks during a 10-day period earlier this month . <p> " We bring them more roads to bring the cargo . We escort them from the Philidelphi road -- this is in the IDF 's control -- we escort them until Al Rashid , which is the road next to the beach , " an IDF colonel told The Post in Kerem Shalom . <p> To help facilitate the safe transfer of aid , Israel opened the Philadelphi corridor for the safe passage of 300 trucks during a 10-day period earlier this month . Caitlin Doornbos/NY Post <p> " There are criminal families that want to take all the cargo and sell it and to make a business for this , " the colonel said . " As you see right now in Gaza , except for driver of the truck and something like this , you do n't have a lot of work . So this is the only option to make money . " <p> " Now all the humanitarian aid is worth a lot of money , " he added . <p> Other organizations , such as UNICEF , World Central Kitchen and Save the Children have succeeded in arranging the delivery of aid , sometimes by paying off looters , the colonel went on . <p> " Every truck that succeeds to go out of here , most of them had the chance to succeed because they made deals with the looters , " he said . " They pay if they have stuff that is really necessary for the organization , such as medical stuff , so they prefer to pay cash . " <p> But UNRWA and other agencies such as World Food Program have been unable to move their cargo out , apparently unwilling to pay off the pirates , according to the colonel . <p> In the meantime , aid that those organizations have already paid for , sent and cleared through IDF entry points will continue to sit and waiting in the sun for some resolution to the rampant crime that 's preventing it from reaching the Gazans who need it . <h> Video <p> Thousands of pallets of humanitarian aid stacked at the Gaza border are awaiting delivery by relief organizations that are unwilling to send supply trucks likely to be looted by Hamas terrorists and other street criminals . Caitlin Doornbos/NY Post <p> At least 1,100 trucks have gone into Gaza in December , IDF head of coordination and liaison administration for Gaza Col. Abdullah Halabi said , but it 's unclear how many made it to their final destinations . Caitlin Doornbos/NY Post <p> On Dec. 1 , the United Nations Relief Workers Agency ( UNRWA ) announced its suspension of aid deliveries through Kerem Shalom , citing the taking of aid trucks by armed gangs . Majdi **27;1133;TOOLONG <p> During The Post 's visit , shelling and gunfire were heard in the distance . Caitlin Doornbos/NY Post <p> The aid includes sacks of flour , blankets , canned food and other necessities . Caitlin Doornbos/NY Post <p> To help facilitate the safe transfer of aid , Israel opened the Philadelphi corridor for the safe passage of 300 trucks during a 10-day period earlier this month . Caitlin Doornbos/NY Post 
@@119305624 <h> Deferring the dream of a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict <h> A multilateral approach involving Saudi normalization could set a framework for future peace . <p> The Via Dolorosa in Jerusalem 's Old City is largely empty of worshipers on Dec. 8 . Shira Schoenberg/Globe Staff <p> On a Sunday afternoon in December , the Via Dolorosa was largely empty . The route Christians believe Jesus walked to his crucifixion was n't thronged with worshipers . After 14 months with Israel at war , Jerusalem 's Old City was bare of tourists . Arab shopkeepers played cards and looked at their cellphones . A few Jews walked to worship at the Western Wall . Stores opened late , closed early , or remained shuttered . <p> Gaza is in ruins . Israeli communities are evacuated . The region 's economy is reeling . Future peace between Palestinians and Israelis feels like a pipe dream , shattered when Hamas terrorists infiltrated Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , intent on murdering , raping , and kidnapping . The Middle East lurches from conflict to conflict , as Syrian rebels deposed Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad days after Israel and Hezbollah agreed to a cease-fire in Lebanon . <p> Yet perhaps the instability can pave the way for a glimmer of a brighter future . Assad 's fall in Syria suggests Iran and its " axis of resistance " are weakened by Israel 's damage to Iranian proxies Hamas and Hezbollah . That could make the moment right for the United States to support strengthening alliances between moderate forces in the Middle East , including helping Israel normalize relations with its neighbors . US President-elect Donald Trump -- a transactional businessman who brokered the Abraham Accords between Israel and some of its Arab neighbors -- should prioritize achieving a deal . <p> Long-term , this board continues to believe two states for two peoples is the best possible solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . But Israelis today will not accept a Palestinian state -- and the Palestinian people lack leadership to make one successful . An interim solution that gives the Palestinians increased self-governance , floods Gaza with international support to rebuild , and helps Israel build alliances with its neighbors could bring temporary peace while paving the way for a future permanent resolution . <p> The two-state solution was born out of the understanding that a one-state solution -- a state that incorporates the West Bank and Gaza with all of their residents into Israel -- would fundamentally alter the Jewish , democratic nature of Israel and would be unpalatable to both sides . There are 7 million Jews and 7 million Arabs currently living in Israel , the West Bank , and Gaza , each population with its own culture , identity , and mutual distrust . The two-state solution was the foundation of the 1993 Oslo Accords , the 2000 Camp David Summit , and Trump 's 2020 peace proposal . But an agreement on the details of a future Palestinian state -- borders , governance , and security -- has proved elusive . <p> Advertisement <p> For many Israelis , Oct. 7 destroyed that vision . Israelis fear a Palestinian state would pose an existential threat on their borders , and they see recognition of a state as a concession to terror . After all , Israel withdrew unilaterally from Gaza in 2005 and the result was violence . " You can find no Israeli today who speaks about the two-state solution , " said Michael Milshtein , head of the Palestinian Studies Forum at the Moshe Dayan Center for Middle Eastern and African Studies at Tel Aviv University . <p> Simultaneously , Palestinians have a leadership vacuum . Hamas , which led Gaza , is decimated and has lost any legitimacy as a governing body . The Palestinian Authority , which controls the West Bank , is led by aging leader Mahmoud Abbas , who is viewed among Palestinians as weak and corrupt . Palestinians have n't held elections since 2006 . Israeli Arab journalist Khaled Abu Toameh said the Palestinians he meets are more worried about returning to work in Israel and eliminating corruption within the PA than establishing a state . " I hear more people talking about a two-state solution in Washington than in Ramallah , " Abu Toameh said . <p> Yet a common thread runs through even the most disparate proposals for resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict , which is the need for two entities for two peoples ; the question is what that looks like . Far-right politicians in Israel seeking to annex parts of the West Bank would extend Israeli sovereignty to large Israeli settlement blocs but leave Gaza and parts of the West Bank to Palestinian governance . On the left , a plan by Palestinian lawyer and adviser to peace negotiations Hiba Husseini and former Israeli minister Yossi Beilin would create a " confederation , " essentially two states but with porous borders . <p> Advertisement <p> The need for political vision to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is greater than ever . With Iran weakened , the West has an opportunity to strengthen a bloc of Arab states that oppose Iran 's radicalism and are willing to work with the United States and potentially Israel . The biggest opportunity could be the normalization of relations between Israel and Saudi Arabia -- discussions of which were ongoing before the Oct. 7 attack and have resumed recently as part of negotiations for a Gaza cease-fire . Saudi officials have said they would support normalization with Israel as part of a deal that ends the war and includes Israel 's commitment to a pathway toward a Palestinian state . <p> What could that look like ? Israeli intellectual and author Micah Goodman suggested a plan could be based partly on one Trump proposed in 2020 . Israel would support Palestinian self-governance over Gaza and the parts of the West Bank currently under Palestinian civil authority , with roads and bridges giving Palestinians free movement between towns . This structure , Goodman said , " creates the sense of a real self-governing political entity " and eliminates the " lived experience of occupation " by limiting checkpoints . <p> Israel would retain the right to enter the territory and to maintain any buffer zones and barriers needed to ensure Israeli security . Palestinians would have the freedom to elect a government and build a society . Israel would need to crack down on vigilante violence against Palestinians by Jewish settlers , making clear that violence against people or property is illegal and unacceptable . Unlike in prior proposals , the Palestinians would not be forced to recognize an Israeli state or give up on compensation for Palestinian refugees displaced in 1948 . Those issues would be deferred , as would statehood . <p> Advertisement <p> Instead , Israel 's payment for the concessions would be normalization with Saudi Arabia , which could reap financial and political benefits for Israel . <p> As Goodman puts it , such a plan " does n't end the conflict . It shrinks the conflict . " <p> Of course , 2024 is not 2020 , and any plan needs to include a realistic way to rebuild Gaza and turn it into a functioning -- and ideally , thriving -- society . This will require a functioning Palestinian governing body unaffiliated with Hamas and significant international assistance , particularly from the surrounding Arab states . There might need to be a temporary Israeli military administration to facilitate the transition away from Hamas , but ultimately , the Palestinians will need to create their own local leadership to handle civil affairs . They may need support from an international force and will need international aid for rebuilding , with Israel providing basic utilities like water and energy . There will be roles for nongovernmental organizations with expertise in health care and education and for Palestinians living abroad to contribute money and support . <p> If such a plan is to lay the ground for a future Palestinian state , Palestinians will have to take the opportunity to build trust with Israel and change a culture that demonizes Israel -- replacing an educational curriculum that urges armed struggle and dehumanizes Jews and eliminating government programs that pay families of terrorists who kill Israelis . <p> Advertisement <p> Samer Sinijlawi , a Palestinian activist who founded the Jerusalem Development Fund , said Palestinians need younger , democratically elected leadership combined with a shift away from violence against Israelis toward engagement with them . " Any progress that can benefit the Palestinians , change their lives , bring statehood , respect , dignity , freedom , economic development , it does n't come via Washington , D.C. , Cairo , Riyadh , " Sinijlawi said . " It comes through Tel Aviv , Rehovot ... through every neighborhood in Israel . When we win their hearts and minds , when we convince them they can trust us for their security . " <p> Sinijlawi said Palestinians tried violence on Oct. 7 and Israelis reacted with military might , and neither will resolve the conflict . The only way to save future lives , he said , is a diplomatic solution . Or as Sinijlawi called it , rather than pursuing a " war of no choice , " it is time to pursue " peace of no choice . " 
@@119306239 <p> " It 's scarier to be in the place Jews go on Christmas , " said Woghin , 49 . But the pull of barbecue pork ribs won out . <p> For many American Jews , Christmas simply is n't Christmas without kung pao chicken and afternoon tickets to the latest holiday blockbuster . <p> Advertisement <p> For Twin Dragon , a 61-year-old landmark in the heart of Jewish L.A. and one of the oldest Chinese restaurants in the area , that makes Dec. 25 nothing short of the Super Bowl . <p> " It 's the busiest day of the year , " manager Amanda Tang said . <p> The Wren family has dinner at Twin Dragon on Christmas . <p> ( Michael Blackshire/Los Angeles Times ) <p> The ritual emerged around the turn of the 20th century with Jews on New York 's Lower East Side , around the same time as the Yiddish term for dining out , oysessen . <p> Back then , Chinese restaurants were some of the few eateries open on Christmas . Today , they 're some of the hardest to get into , with restaurants from Flatbush , N.Y. , to Fairfax booked solid for holiday meals . <p> Advertisement <p> The Chinese feast is not a universal Jewish custom . Relatively few Orthodox Jews observe it . Nor is it particularly widespread among L.A. 's large Persian , Israeli and Russian Jewish communities . <p> Still , red and white takeout carriers are now as much a part of Christmas in Los Angeles as tamales and artificial snow . <p> Not celebrating Christmas can feel lonely . But in and around religiously diverse Los Angeles , Jews , Mulims , Hindus and others share the experience of not sharing an experience . <p> Dec. 21 , 2023 <p> Many non-Jews -- including atheists , Buddhists and Christians too lazy to cook -- also congregate at Chinese restaurants on the holiday . <p> Twin Dragon has neither the Michelin listing of Chengdu Taste nor the winking , in-on-the-joke kitsch of neighboring Genghis Cohen . Its most beloved dishes are Americanized favorites , its lion statues and elaborately painted pagoda facade at once charming and a little cringe . <p> But that 's the point , adherents say . The key to a great Chinese meal on Christmas is n't authenticity , or exclusivity , or glamour -- although fans insist their favorite has all of the above . <p> Older Angelenos are strictly loyal to their neighborhood spot , longtime residents said , whether Twin Dragon , Fu 's Palace or a kosher Chinese eatery . In Pico-Robertson , the preference often stems from when someone put down roots in the area . <p> Advertisement <p> Most people who come to Twin Dragon on Christmas keep coming because they always have . They count their loyalty in decades . To paraphrase Tevye the Milkman , it 's tradition . <p> " This is something we do every year , " said Gaye Wren , whose extended family was gathered in Twin Dragon 's dark , neon-trimmed dining room for an early lunch on Christmas Day . " It was their grandmother and great-grandmother 's idea , since no one wanted to cook . " <p> Like many patrons , Wren 's family has been coming to the restaurant almost since it first opened in 1962 . Family members travel from Inglewood , Glendale and Canoga Park . For about the last decade , they 've made it their Christmas ritual as a Christian family , exchanging Secret Santa gifts and sharing their favorite dishes . Monday was one of their first Christmases without their beloved matriarch , Sandi Wren . <p> " Coming here has made it a favorite , " said Gaye Wren 's granddaughter , Jazmen Thomas , 28 . <p> " And they 're open , " cut in her mother , Deanna Webb , 50 . <p> " It 's consistency in a world that 's constantly changing , " Thomas said . <p> That 's also what brought Clifford Slobod , 81 and Kit Hudson , 77 , for their annual Christmas meal of hot and sour soup and kung pao shrimp . <p> While most patrons had come to take part in the tradition , others were surprised -- and in some cases , modestly inconvenienced by it . <p> Advertisement <p> On Christmas Day , frustrated drivers circled the block for parking , a few abandoning their cars in the walkway alongside the disabled spot or directly in front of the curb to pick up takeout orders . <p> " We know it 's a thing in New York , so we literally got here right at 11 when it opened , " said LaKisha Tillman , 51 . " We were the first to put in our order . People were already sitting inside , caterers picking up their orders . It 's already busy . " <p> Some found special significance in the ritual this year -- particularly in a neighborhood where antisemitic incidents have surged since the Israel-Hamas war started . <p> At the same time , it was part of an irreverent and lighthearted tradition , following a Hanukkah season that was both religiously and politically fraught . <p> The holiday , which ended Dec. 15 , celebrates Jewish victory in a war for control of Jerusalem more than 2,000 years ago . Its central miracle -- the persistence of holy light through darkness -- felt especially urgent to many amid the war in Gaza . <p> Many Jewish Angelenos shied away from public displays and celebrations out of fear of antisemitic violence , and several large public menorahs were vandalized or destroyed . <p> Advertisement <p> " Everything feels different this year , " said Shuli Kupchan , who was dining at Twin Dragon with another Jewish family on Christmas Eve . <p> For her , the Christmas ritual is a way to connect with the majority without assimilating into it . <p> " It 's our version of celebrating along with the rest of the world , " the educator said . " It 's a way of doing it without having a Christmas tree in our house . " <p> What tied Woghin and the Gleims to the Wren family to the Kupchans was not a particular dish or a drink or a table , but an experience passed from one generation to the next . <p> On Christmas Eve , a few bewildered would-be diners loitered outside under the floodlights in the Twin Dragon parking lot , stomachs growling as they scanned the paper menu and waited for a free moment to put in their order . <p> Advertisement <p> Hazard lights twinkled in the darkness , the sounds of laughter and car horns mingling in the air as families spilled onto West Pico Boulevard , their arms laden with grease-stained cardboard boxes and a century of holiday tradition . <p> " We like to destroy a restaurant -- it 's our minhag , " said Molly Hoffman of Eagle Rock , who had just dined with the Kupchan family , using the Hebrew word for a Jewish custom not rooted in religious law . <p> " It 's something we did with our parents , " her wife , Yael Zinkow , explained , as their daughter Norah Hoffman Zinkow , 2 , flounced through the parking lot in her Elsa dress and teal crown , tired but delighted at the conclusion of yet another winter festival . 
@@119306533 <h> Israel kills five medical staff as another baby freezes to death in Gaza <p> Doctor , lab technician and two maintenance workers among those killed as a fourth baby in three days dies of cold during Israel 's genocide . <p> Palestinians walk among debris after an Israeli attack on the courtyard of Kamal Adwan Hospital and its surrounding buildings in Beit Lahiya , Gaza , on December 25 , 2024 Khalil Ramzi Alkahlut/Anadolu <p> Published On 26 Dec 202426 Dec 2024 <p> Israel 's genocide has killed five staff members at one of northern Gaza 's last functioning hospitals , the facility 's director says , as yet another baby freezes to death in the besieged and bombed Palestinian enclave . <p> Hussam Abu Safia , head of Kamal Adwan Hospital in Beit Lahiya , on Thursday said the " martyrs included a doctor . " <p> Al Jazeera 's Hind Khoudary , reporting from central Gaza , said a laboratory technician and two maintenance workers were among those killed in the attack . <p> " We know that the hospital is one of the only medical facilities still operating , and it is working with the bare minimum human resources and a lack of medical supplies , " she said . <p> " Israeli forces have been attacking the surroundings of Kamal Adwan Hospital , sending quadcopters inside the hospital and shooting Palestinians . " <p> The hospital has been rendered nonoperational after weeks of near-daily attacks . Israeli forces previously killed the director of the hospital 's ICU , Dr Ahmed al-Kahlout , and wounded dozens of medical staff in attacks on and near the facility . <p> Khoudary said Palestinian rescue workers have been unable to reach the bodies of those killed at the hospital . " People are unable to bury those Palestinians who are being killed every single day by the Israeli forces in northern Gaza , " she added . <p> Advertisement <p> Israel launched a large-scale ground offensive in northern Gaza on October 5 , saying it aimed to prevent the Palestinian group Hamas from regrouping . <p> Since then , no sufficient humanitarian aid , including food , medicine and fuel , has been allowed into the area , leaving the remaining population on the verge of famine . <p> The World Health Organization has described conditions at Kamal Adwan Hospital as " appalling " and said it was operating at a " minimum " level . <h> Another baby freezes to death <p> Meanwhile , a fourth infant has died due to extreme cold within 72 hours in Gaza , the Wafa news agency reported on Thursday . <p> Medical sources said the baby died due to a drop in temperature as the humanitarian conditions across the enclave are dire . <p> " The tents do not protect from the cold , and it gets very cold at night with no way to keep warm , " said Dr Ahmed al-Farra , the chief paediatric doctor at Nasser Hospital in southern Gaza 's Khan Younis area . <p> In more than a year of Israeli attacks and lack of aid deliveries , many families in Gaza have been left without adequate shelter and resources to cope with the changing weather . <p> Local health officials told Wafa a lack of food among mothers was contributing to a rise in health issues among children , further straining medical facilities and emergency services . <p> Israel 's bombardment and ground invasion of Gaza has killed more than 45,300 Palestinians , more than half of them women and children . The offensive has also caused widespread destruction and displaced about 90 percent of Gaza 's 2.3 million residents , often multiple times . <p> Advertisement <p> Hundreds of thousands of people are packed into tent camps along the coast as the cold , wet winter sets in . Aid groups have struggled to deliver food and supplies and said there are shortages of blankets , warm clothing and firewood . 
@@119306535 <h> Israel strikes Yemen 's Sanaa airport , Hodeidah power plant <p> Israeli military attacks several sites , including airport in Yemen 's capital as the WHO chief boards a flight . <p> Video Duration 06 minutes 37 seconds 06:37 <p> Israel strikes Yemen 's Sanaa airport , Hodeidah power plant : Reports <p> Published On 26 Dec 202426 Dec 2024 <p> <p> Updated : <p> 6 hours ago <p> Israel 's military says it struck multiple targets linked to the Houthi rebels in Yemen , including Sanaa International Airport and three ports along the western coast . <p> The attacks carried out on Thursday hit Yemen 's Hezyaz and Ras Kanatib power stations as well as military infrastructure in the ports of Hodeidah , Salif and Ras Kanatib , the military said . <p> The attacks on Sanaa airport and Hodeidah power station were also reported by Al Masirah TV , the main television news outlet run by the Houthis . <p> The outlet said two people were killed in the strikes on the airport and one person was killed in the port hits , while 11 others were wounded in the attacks . <p> Yemeni journalist Hussain al-Bukhaiti told Al Jazeera the attack on the airport in the capital Sanaa targeted one of its control towers , disrupting operations . <p> " All Israeli attacks ... whether its against Yemen or Gaza , they Yemeni forces will treat as an escalation . And I believe ... the Yemeni army may conduct a major attack against Israel , " he said . <p> Advertisement <p> Mohammed al-Attab , another journalist from Yemen who spoke to Al Jazeera , said this was not the first time Israeli forces had attacked the Sanaa airport . <p> " The airport has been bombed on more than one occasion ... and has been rehabilitated , " he said , adding that there were no reports of casualties so far . <p> Meanwhile , the head of the World Health Organization , Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus , said he and his United Nations colleagues were preparing to board a plane at Sanaa airport when it came under Israeli bombardment . <p> " One of our plane 's crew members was injured . At least two people were reported killed at the airport . The air traffic control tower , the departure lounge -- just a few meters from where we were -- and the runway were damaged , " he said in a post on X , adding that they were all safe . <p> Tedros said the UN and WHO teams were in the country " to negotiate the release of UN staff detainees and to assess the health and humanitarian situation in Yemen " . <p> The Israeli strikes came a day after Yemen 's Houthis , who control northwestern Yemen , including Sanaa and its Red Sea coast , fired a ballistic missile and two drones towards Israel . Over the weekend , 16 people were wounded when a Houthi missile hit a playground in Tel Aviv . <p> Al Jazeera 's Hamdah Salhut , reporting from Amman , said Israel 's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and the Defence Minister Israel Katz have both previously said " Yemen will pay a price " for the recent attacks on Israel . <p> Advertisement <p> " You are looking at least five different incidents in which there were missiles fired by the Houthis into Israeli airspace , one of them actually making impact in Tel Aviv , " she said . <p> On Saturday , a Houthi missile attack wounded 16 people in Tel Aviv . The incident prompted a warning from Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , who said he ordered the destruction of Houthi infrastructure . <p> Netanyahu on Thursday said the strikes on Yemen would continue " until the job is done " . <p> " We are determined to cut this branch of terrorism from the Iranian axis of evil . We will continue until the job is done , " he said in a video statement . <p> Houthi fighters have targeted Israel and ships linked to it in the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden since Israel launched its genocide in Gaza on October 7 , 2023 , after a Hamas-led attack on Israel , which killed 1,139 people . <p> The Houthis said they are acting in solidarity with Palestinians in Gaza , where more than 45,000 people , mostly children and women , have been killed by Israeli forces . 
@@119306537 <p> United States President Joe Biden 's administration is facing criticism after a US-backed report on famine in the Gaza Strip was retracted this week , drawing accusations of political interference and pro-Israel bias . <p> The report by the Famine Early Warning Systems Network ( FEWS NET ) , which provides information about global food insecurity , had warned that a " famine scenario " was unfolding in northern Gaza during Israel 's war on the territory . <p> A note on the FEWS NET website , viewed by Al Jazeera on Thursday , said the group 's " December 23 Alert is under further review and is expected to be re-released with updated data and analysis in January " . <p> The Associated Press news agency , quoting unnamed American officials , said the US asked for the report to be retracted . FEWS NET is funded by the US Agency for International Development ( USAID ) . <p> USAID did not immediately respond to Al Jazeera 's request for comment on Thursday afternoon . <p> Israel 's war in Gaza has killed more than 45,300 Palestinians since early October 2023 and plunged the coastal enclave into a dire humanitarian crisis as access to food , water , medicine and other supplies is severely curtailed . <p> Advertisement <p> An Israeli military offensive in the northern part of the territory has drawn particular concern in recent months with experts warning in November of a " strong likelihood " that famine was imminent in the area . <p> " Starvation , malnutrition , and excess mortality due to malnutrition and disease , are rapidly increasing " in northern Gaza , the Integrated Food Security Phase Classification said in an alert on November 8 . <p> " Famine thresholds may have already been crossed or else will be in the near future , " it said . <h> The report <p> The FEWS NET report dated December 23 noted that Israel has maintained a " near-total blockade of humanitarian and commercial food supplies to besieged areas " of northern Gaza for nearly 80 days . <p> " Based on the collapse of the food system and worsening access to water , sanitation , and health services in these areas ... it is highly likely that the food consumption and acute malnutrition thresholds for Famine ( IPC Phase 5 ) have now been surpassed in North Gaza Governorate , " the FEWS NET report had said . <p> The network added that without a change to Israeli policy on food supplies entering the area , it expected that two to 15 people would die per day from January to March at least , which would surpass the " famine threshold " . <p> The report had spurred public criticism from the US ambassador to Israel , Jack Lew , who in a statement on Tuesday said FEWS NET had relied on " outdated and inaccurate " data . <p> Advertisement <p> Lew disputed the number of civilians believed to be living in northern Gaza , saying the civilian population was " in the range of 7,000-15,000 , not 65,000-75,000 which is the basis of this report " . <p> " At a time when inaccurate information is causing confusion and accusations , it is irresponsible to issue a report like this , " he said . <h> ' Bullying ' <p> But Palestinian rights advocates condemned the ambassador 's remarks . Some accused Lew of appearing to welcome the forced displacement of Palestinians in Gaza . <p> " To reject a report on starvation in northern Gaza by appearing to boast about the fact that it has been successfully ethnically cleansed of its native population is just the latest example of Biden administration officials supporting , enabling and excusing Israel 's clear and open campaign of genocide in Gaza , " the Council on American-Islamic Relations said in a statement . <p> The group urged FEWS NET " not to submit to the bullying of genocide supporters " . <p> Huwaida Arraf , a prominent Palestinian American human rights lawyer , also criticised Lew for " relying on Israeli sources instead of your own experts " . <p> " Do you work for Israel or the American people , the overwhelming majority of whom disapprove of US support for this genocide ? " she wrote on X. <p> Polls over the past year have shown a high percentage of Americans are opposed to Israel 's offensive in Gaza and want an end to the war . <p> A March survey by Gallup found that 55 percent of people in the US disapproved of Israel 's actions in Gaza while a more recent poll by the Pew Research Center , released in October , suggested about three in 10 Americans believed Israel 's military offensive is " going too far " . <p> Advertisement <p> While the Biden administration has said it is pushing for a ceasefire in Gaza , it has rebuffed calls to condition US assistance to Israel as a way to bring the war to an end . <p> Washington gives its ally at least $3.8bn in military assistance annually , and researchers at Brown University recently estimated that the Biden administration provided an additional $17.9bn to Israel since the start of the Gaza war . <p> The US is required under its own laws to suspend military assistance to a country if that country restricts the delivery of American-backed humanitarian aid , but Biden 's administration has so far refused to apply that rule to Israel . <p> " We , at this time , have not made an assessment that the Israelis are in violation of US law , " Department of State spokesperson Vedant Patel told reporters in November despite the reports of " imminent " famine in northern Gaza . 
@@119339428 <h> Energy crisis has Iran on the brink -- and hands Trump a historic opportunity <p> " Fools " flocking to the " scent of kebab " : That 's how Iranian Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei recently described audiences abroad who sense an opportunity to support Iran 's people against their clerical overlords in the face of his regime 's myriad challenges . <p> But the joke 's on Khamenei : When President Donald Trump returns to the White House next month , the United States will have a chance to end Tehran 's menace for good . <p> Iran is sunk in a months-long energy crisis that 's rocking the regime to its foundations . <p> Over the past three years , the regime has managed to illicitly sell over $140 billion worth of oil . <p> Yet years of economic corruption and mismanagement , coupled with competing priorities over what to do with energy revenues -- spend them on terror proxies abroad , or on the Iranian people at home ? -- has yielded gas shortages , hindering electricity generation and chilling millions of Iranians this winter . <p> The contradiction is so severe that even Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps officials have called the predicament " disgraceful . " <p> Iran 's government-subsidized gas prices are artificially low , so demand is high and unwavering -- and official calls for conservation have n't helped . <p> Neither has Tehran repaired the energy infrastructure reportedly targeted by Israel in this year 's aerial attacks . <p> The result : rolling blackouts , shuttered industries and reduced work hours for businesses and government offices at the close of what many are calling an " annus horribilis . " <p> To control the crisis , the regime could cut subsidies and raise gas prices . But the mullahs fear that would set the stage for widespread anti-regime protests , like those seen in November 2019 . <p> Those demonstrations , touched off by a previous energy crisis , quickly spiraled into a referendum against the regime 's broader policies , and its very existence . <p> But an unchecked energy crisis could lead to nationwide strikes -- and a reprise of the events of the winter of 1978 , the start of the revolution that brought the ayatollahs to power in the first place . <p> Magnifying this domestic crisis is the poor state of the Iranian currency , the rial , whose purchasing power has plummeted . The unofficial exchange rate is at its lowest point relative to the US dollar in recorded history . <p> The governor of Iran 's Central Bank framed the collapse of the rial in geopolitical terms , pointing to the fall of the Assad regime in Syria , regional setbacks with Israel and the return of a Trump presidency for driving down its value . <p> The currency slid to a whopping 801,000 rials to one US dollar just after Christmas . <p> The situation gets worse for Tehran the further one gets from Iran 's borders . <p> Despite promises from Iranian officials that Israel would be made extinct , the wings of Tehran 's terror proxies have been clipped by Israeli military might . <p> Hamas ' leadership and terror infrastructure in Gaza is now demolished , and Hezbollah in Lebanon has lost a significant portion of its arsenal and its leadership , as well as its mid-ranking commanders . <p> The coup de gr ? ce : The fall of Assad in Damascus denies Tehran a vital piece of the regional chessboard that had allowed it to export terror and threaten American and Israeli interests . <p> Trump can capitalize on this moment of opportunity by restoring a " maximum pressure " policy . Getty Images <p> The Islamic Republic also lost its long-range air defenses in an October retaliatory strike by Israel -- so the next time it strikes at Israeli or American interests , the regime will be leading with its chin . <p> Reeling from defeat after defeat and trying to limit any contagion effect , Tehran is now trying to extinguish fires on the home front by delaying implementation of a new and controversial " hijab and chastity law " that would sharply increase punishments , while also lifting bans on the use of communication apps like WhatsApp and Google Play . <p> These are not signs of liberalization or moderation but admissions of defeat and signs of weakness . <p> Despite the outgoing administration 's pursuit of Iran appeasement , Trump can capitalize on this moment of opportunity . <p> By restoring a " maximum pressure " policy of coercive economic sanctions restricting oil and other export revenues while wielding a credible military option , Trump can box Khamenei in . <p> Expect Khamenei to increasingly rattle his nuclear saber in an effort to tempt the West with talks . <p> But if Trump resists the bait and marries maximum pressure with a policy of " maximum support " for the Iranian people , he can flip the script on Khamenei. 
@@119343337 <h> 9 unforgettable moments that made TV great in 2024 <p> Melanie McFarland <p> Fri , December 27 , 2024 at 6:30 PM UTC <p> 10 min read <p> The Penguin Macall Polay/HBO <p> You already have your own list of best TV shows , and who am I to disagree ? Any show that makes your mood a little lighter or moves you in some extraordinary way fits that designation . But traditions must be attended to , including our annual " best of " round-ups . <p> Regardless of the TV industry 's contraction , there are still too many outstanding shows for one person to keep up with , let alone capture in a single list . That 's one reason every year-end list of best series has its omissions ; nobody can watch everything . <p> There are all kinds of " Best TV Series of 2024 " lists , though , led by certain award magnets . FX 's " Shogun " is an all-around masterpiece . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> " Ripley " and " Baby Reindeer " are among Netflix 's top must-sees . Apple TV+ continues to draw audiences with shows like " Disclaimer " ( a favorite of my colleague Coleman Spilde ) , " Slow Horses " and the delightful " Loot . " HBO 's " True Detective : Night Country " is the deftest revival of a dead franchise I 've seen in a long time , and " Dune : Prophecy " is an elegant extension of a cinematic phenomenon . And if you have n't seen the " Matlock " update on CBS , you really should . <p> The greatness of any work boils down to moments , scenes and details , and there are too many good ones for any list to be complete . But here are nine that keep bubbling to the surface of my memory that reaffirm what makes their season 's must-sees . <p> Supernatural evil is a recurring feature in " Fargo , " the kind whose agenda is separate from the squabbles of petty men and women . In Season 5 Sam Spruell 's Ole Munch took on that role , a timeless " sin eater " hired to hunt Dot Lyon ( Juno Temple ) . Dot scars Munch , and gets rid of Munch 's " client , " but he ca n't be done with her : " A debt must be paid , " he growls in front of Dot 's daughter and gentle husband . Where others would respond with fear and violence , Dot invites him to help her make biscuits to go with their chili . Watching a confused Munch pitch in to help instead of murdering them all is strange at first , then heartwarming as he realizes this sweet , lovely family only wants to make him feel welcome . Munch tells the long story of his deathless existence , a sentence he 's living out because he believes forgiveness is impossible . But when Dot tells Munch the cure for all his sorrow and guilt is " to eat something made with love and joy , and be forgiven , " while handing him a warm biscuit sweetened with honey , the slow smile that spreads across Spruell 's face as he tastes the first bite becomes a bright beacon of hope . <p> Deborah Vance ( Jean Smart ) spent her career accepting that it 's a man 's world and plotting her navigation accordingly . Working with prot ? g ? Ava ( Hannah Einbinder ) helped her achieve new career heights by breaking free of those lowered expectations . But long-held views do n't die easily . When the old ( and I mean old ) boys ' club that once excluded invites her over for a very exclusive poker party they pair with their colonoscopy prep , she eagerly accepts even though she 's already suffered through her annual blowout . The gross bowel breaks and misogyny , she can stomach . But to her surprise , their retrograde views on queerness are a bridge too far . Instead of simply removing herself from offensive company , she leaves the guys in a messy bind by stealing every roll of TP in the joint -- a truly legendary move . <p> Every adult holds on to clothes that remind them of past glories . That 's why rifling through an older relative 's clothing is a common ritual -- part archaeological dig , part playtime experiment . In " The Penguin " Cristin Milioti 's Sofia Falcone marks her transition from the dutiful mobster 's demure daughter to a siren afire with vengeance . That 's announced when she arrives at a family dinner with traitorous relatives wearing a flaming yellow gown with a plunging neckline . After she wipes all of them out , she digs through her mother 's closet and lands on a fabulous ' 80s fur with her mother 's maiden name , Isabella Gigante , sewn inside . That 's what she wears to a gathering of the remaining Falcone forces to announce her takeover , punctuated by executing the remaining male relative standing in her way . " Few spoke of her after she died because she was a force greater than the Falcones could handle , " Sofia tells the men . Milioti 's superb performance makes Sofia a force , and " The Penguin " one of the year 's best shows as well . But it 's the way she wears her mother 's armor that shakes up these scenes . It is n't about Mother 's fashion . It 's about her power . <h> 04 " Diarra From Detroit " : " The One That Got Away " ( BET+ ) <p> The Moment : Pancakes with Danger . <p> Teacher-turned-citizen detective Diarra Brickland may be a goner for a guy who ghosts her after a one-night stand . Still , when she 's traumatized by a shooting , the only one who understands what she needs is Danger ( Jon Chaffin ) , her neighbor and the childhood friend who rekindles their old friendship by nearly robbing her . Without saying a word Danger makes Diarra silver dollar pancakes and counsels her on how to find her " safe space " by meditating . Danger robs people , it 's true . He 's also experienced his share of trauma and knows how to validate hers . Diarra Kilpatrick 's whip-smart , heartfelt mystery overflows with great dialogue and unpredictable turns , but that simple gesture lets us know in her love letter to Detroit that nobody should ever be written off . When we do , we risk missing the sweetness underneath someone 's tough crust . <p> Abbott Elementary <h> 05 " Abbott Elementary " : " Ringworm " ( ABC ) <p> The Moment : The best parental note of all time <p> No line is wasted in Quinta Brunson 's comedy , especially in the hands of one of TV 's finest ensemble casts and the child actors they work with . That makes it tough to land on a single scene or moment that stands out -- except , maybe , for the writers ' imagined version of how a note from a neighborhood parent might read . Some folks are just natural poets , as we know . One of them is the mother of Brandon , a kid with ringworm , whose mom who does n't view that as enough of an excuse to interrupt her day . The funniest part is that writers tasked Chris Perfetti 's nerdy Jacob Hill with reading it aloud . Even though he 's reading it in his voice , we can hear Brandon 's mother 's : " ' Dear Mr. Hill , I know that 's wrong . According to the district 's website , my child does n't have to be sent home until the end of the day . I 'm not the one , or the two , so please send my child home at three . Try Jesus , do n't try me . Patricia . ' " <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Then Jacob asks , " Is this a riddle ? " " <p> The Traitors <h> 06 " The Traitors " : " Murder in Plain Sight " / " The Funeral " ( Peacock ) <p> The Moment : " Oh my lord , sweet baby Jesus , not Ekin-Su ! " <p> A strong argument can be made that every new outfit Alan Cumming arrived in each day of the reality competition was a moment . We expect the Scottish diva to come correct , especially as the devious host of a murder mystery game . But former Bravo housewife and " Married to Medicine " star Phaedra Parks ' stellar gameplay and the way she relished being a secret villain was a delicious surprise -- a never-ending moment and a Beyonce-style mood rolled into one flawlessly polished package . Parks would murder then traipse casually into breakfast , inquiring about the availability of eggs or salmon . She 's a reality genre genius . But she also fueled a meme with her reaction to house favorite Ekin-Su C ? lc ? loglu ( of the U.K. edition of " Love Island " ) being poisoned out of convenience by a fellow traitor , " Survivor " villainess Parvati Shallow . Parks rears back in horror , theatrically blinks her miles-long false eyelashes , fans herself and petitions God as if she 's just heard that a relative was struck down by lightning . Then she gets over it in time to kill and kill again . Topping that casting is going to be tough in Season 3 , which debuts Jan. 9 . <p> Grotesquerie <h> 07 " Grotesquerie " : " The Stinging Aroma of Sulfur " ( FX ) <p> The Moment : " No take-backs " <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Many of us who watched grisly Ryan Murphy 's head trip from start to finish are still trying to figure out what it 's trying to say . But its clearest exchange is the relationship between Niecy Nash-Betts ' Det . Lois Tryon and Lesley Manville 's Redd , the woman Lois ' husband Marshall ( Courtney B. Vance ) is cheating with . After Lois wakes up from a coma ( a long story that lasts half a season ) she decides to divorce Marshall and start over in Tarpon Springs , a Florida beachside community . But in an entirely relatable twist , Redd does n't want him either . " It was fine when he was yours . You know , I got him part-time . I could be my own person ! . . . But now , he 's just . . . there . " Incredibly , Manville 's speech was written by either Murphy or his co-creators Jon Robin Baitz and Joe Baken . Yes , a man captured the way independent women prize their freedom more than having to deal with a man that 's always there " molting , " as Lois puts it . Their dialogue captures the essence of why women would choose to remain alone instead of dating . " Why do women think they need men , " Redd sighs , " when all they need is Tarpon Springs ? <h> 08 " Pachinko " : " Chapter Thirteen " <p> The Moment : A countdown to destruction <p> Season 2 of Apple TV+ 's powerful adaptation of Min Jin Lee 's masterpiece jumps between Sunja Baek 's life in 1945 ( Minha Kim ) and the one she lives as a grandmother in 1989 ( Yuh-jung Youn ) . During World War II Sunja and her sister-in-law Kyunghee ( Eunchae Jung ) take refuge in the countryside and solace in knowing Kyunghee 's husband Yoseb ( Junwoo Han ) has a well-paying job in a Nagasaki munitions factory . The moment we find that out , an ominous weight descends on us . But it 's the methodical march of dates within the first 13 minutes of this installment , rendered in black and white , that steep us in the tension of factory life in the days leading up to the moment the Americans dropped a nuclear bomb onto the city that wiped out tens of thousands . With that horror Sunja and Kyunghee join the countless families displaced by war contending with yet another weight , determined to keep surviving the tragic odds no matter what . <p> We Are Lady Parts <h> 09 " We Are Lady Parts " : " Funny Muslim Song " <p> The Moment : " It 's like death and the maiden , dancing with my corporation/I wo n't mention the w -- " <p> The second season of Nida Manzoor 's comedic masterpiece about an all-female Muslim punk band is a ride of emotional highlights and jaunty fast-n-loud ditties . The namesake band has gained acclaim , a passionate fanbase and a record label 's attention . But mainstream exposure always has a price , and in one particularly angry , desperate scene its frontwoman Saira ( Sarah Kameela ) , furious at being censored , tries to write a song on her own terms . An invisible force silences her , growing more violent as struggles ; each she tries to sing out the lyric " I wo n't mention the war " the offending word is muffled by feedback until she 's knocked off her feet . Manzoor wrote the episode long before the catastrophe in Gaza began but , as she pointed out in an interview , " Unfortunately , Muslim suffering is n't anything new . " 
@@119352934 <p> Syria 's U.S.-backed Kurdish coalition faces uncertain futureAfter Bashar al-Assad 's ouster , there are questions about the fate of the Syrian Democratic Forces , the U.S.-backed Kurdish coalition that currently controls a third of Syrian territory . <p> ISTANBUL -- In the aftermath of Bashar al-Assad 's ouster , Syria remains territorially fractured as the rebels who defeated Assad work to consolidate power . The country 's uncertain future has raised questions about the fate of the U.S.-backed Kurdish coalition known as the Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) . <p> This week , Syria 's new leadership took steps to dissolve the different rebel factions and unite them under the new Syrian army . But the SDF did not join in . In a statement , SDF spokesperson Farhad Shami said the group was n't opposed to joining the Syrian military in principle , but that the matter required negotiations with Damascus . <p> Sponsor Message <p> The realities of the new Syria , however , have left the SDF with few options to maintain its status quo . <h> The SDF controls a third of Syria 's territory <p> In 2014 , the Islamic State extremist group began taking large pieces of territory in northeast Syria as the country was embroiled in a civil war . <p> With the help of the United States , a coalition was formed of Kurdish militia groups to help fight ISIS and take back the territory . That 's how the coalition came to control about a third of Syria , from the Euphrates River and eastward along the borders with Iraq and Turkey , according to Yerevan Saeed , director of the Global Kurdish Initiative for Peace at American University . <p> " The Kurdish control of these areas really came in a time when there was a vacuum of power . All of these areas were taken over by ISIS , and the local population was very happy to have the SDF clear ISIS elements from all of these areas , " Saeed says . <p> After the territorial defeat of ISIS in Syria in the spring of 2019 , the SDF continued to guard the prisons and camps holding thousands of ISIS fighters and their families , something it still does now . <h> A majority of the population living under SDF control are Arabs <p> The Kurds are one of the world 's largest ethnic groups without their own state . They are a minority spread mainly across several Middle Eastern countries , including Iraq , Iran , Turkey and Syria . <p> Sponsor Message <p> For a long time , some Kurds and their allies had hoped that the area the SDF carved out in northeastern Syria would eventually turn into an autonomous Kurdish zone , similar to the Kurdistan Regional Government in northern Iraq . <p> But that goal was unrealistic , according to Denise Natali , the director of the Institute for National Strategic Studies at the National Defense University and expert on U.S. -- Kurdish relations . <p> " This was not in any part of the trajectory of Syrian history , " Natali said . " And not sustainable from a perspective of local power dynamics , not from an economic perspective , not from a security perspective . " <p> Unlike in northern Iraq , a majority of the population in northeast Syria is n't Kurdish . They are Arabs . And while Kurds are living in the area , not all support the SDF , which follows a secular , libertarian socialist ideology that local Sunni Syrian Kurds do not share . <p> The Kurdish towns and villages are also scattered and not contiguous , making it even more challenging to form a cohesive , autonomous region . <p> Since the fall of Assad on Dec. 8 , some Arab residents under SDF control in cities like Deir ez-Zor and Raqqa have been demonstrating and demanding to be governed by the rebels in Damascus instead . <p> " With Assad out of the scene , local Arab communities in eastern Syria are uncomfortable with a sort of Kurdish militia group having ultimate authority in their areas , " said Nicholas Heras , a senior director with New Lines Institute . " They have an alternative , another choice . " <h> NATO ally Turkey sees the Kurdish militia groups as a threat <p> An even bigger challenge to the Kurdish coalition comes from Turkey -- Syria 's neighbor to the north . The rebels led by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) who toppled Assad were supported by Turkey , giving the country significant influence over Syria and its new leaders . <p> Turkey says the main militia force in the U.S.-backed Kurdish coalition is the Syrian arm of the Kurdistan Workers Party -- an insurgent group better known as the PKK which it has been fighting in Turkey for decades . Both Turkey and the U.S. designate the PKK as a terrorist organization . <p> Sponsor Message <p> The U.S. decision to arm the Syrian branch of the PKK -- which is known as the YPG -- in the fight against ISIS has been a sticking point in U.S. -- Turkish relations for years , according to James Jeffrey , a former U.S. ambassador to Turkey and special envoy for the mission to defeat ISIS . <p> " Because of the huge role the PKK has played since I was first in Turkey in 1984 , the Turks can never formally accept what the U.S. is doing with the SDF , " Jeffrey says , referring to Washington 's support of the Syrian Kurdish coalition . <p> Turkish officials made it clear soon after the fall of Assad that one of their strategic priorities in Syria is to see the YPG dismantled , either by the new Syrian leaders in Damascus taking control of all of Syria and uniting it , or by a major Turkish military offensive targeted on areas controlled by the YPG in Syria 's northeast . <p> In a speech to the Turkish parliament this week , Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan warned that the Kurdish militia groups " will either lay down their arms or will be buried with their arms in the lands of Syria . " <p> U.S. Sen. Lindsey Graham , a Republican from South Carolina , and Sen. Chris Van Hollen , a Democrat from Maryland , have threatened sanctions against Turkey in case of a military offensive against the Kurdish fighters in Syria . <h> Syria 's new administration seeks to unite the country <p> Last Sunday , during a press conference in Damascus with the Turkish foreign minister , Syria 's de facto leader Ahmed al-Sharaa said he would not allow any existing weapons in Syria to be outside state control , " whether from the revolutionary factions or from the factions present in the SDF region . " <p> As the U.S.-led anti-ISIS coalition is already due to be disbanded in Iraq , Turkish officials have been encouraging Syria 's new leadership also to eventually take control of ISIS prisons and camps in Syria from the SDF . <p> Sponsor Message <p> " The Syrian administration told us it is ready to take the necessary initiative to take over these prisoners , " Turkish foreign minister Hakan Fidan said in the press conference with Sharaa . <p> Analysts expect a diplomatic agreement will eventually be reached between Damascus and the SDF , without a Turkish military offensive into SDF areas . <p> " I think a more realistic prospect is some form of decentralized administration in which the Kurdish cities have local self-administration , " Natali said . <h> U.S. officials are concerned about ISIS resurgence , but Syria is not a strategic priority <p> Natali , who served as assistant secretary of state for conflict and stabilization operations during President-elect Donald Trump 's first term , says the United States ' yearslong arrangement in Syria with the Kurdish coalition is no longer strategically viable , due to changes both in Syria and in Washington . <p> " We are in a different situation , " she says . " We have a new administration that has clearly identified what their priorities are , and Syria is not a priority . " <p> Instead , she says Trump 's priorities are ending the wars in Ukraine and Gaza . <p> " And these types of priorities are going to need strategic partners , such as Turkey , " Natali says . <p> In his first term , Trump pushed but failed to bring back home the 900 U.S. troops on the ground in Syria . During his campaign this year , he made ending wars and not getting involved in other conflicts a big part of his message , and he is expected to want to withdraw troops from Syria again . <p> But given the scale of destruction during Assad 's violent reign on Syria 's physical infrastructure and the fraying of social dynamics , many experts remain skeptical that Syria wo n't end up a fractured state . <p> And U.S. officials are concerned about ISIS taking advantage of a vacuum and reemerging , making it all the more challenging for a full U.S. withdrawal from Syria . <p> Sponsor Message <p> In an interview on Sunday with conservative commentator Ben Shapiro , Trump 's pick for National Security Advisor Mike Waltz said that while the U.S. did not need to have troops on the ground in Syria , it wo n't be able to turn away from what 's going on there . <p> " Tens of thousands of fighters and families that are sitting in prison camps guarded by our friends the Kurds , supported by us , and we ca n't have that unleash again , " Waltz said . 
@@119373029 <p> Fighting has raged in the areas around Kamal Adwan hospital in Beit Lahia for nearly three months , and on Friday , Israeli forces stormed the hospital , the ministry said , forcing patients and staff to leave the hospital and arresting dozens as military vehicles surrounded the area . <p> Israel 's foreign ministry said on X the hospital was a Hamas stronghold and that it facilitated the " secure evacuation " of civilians away from the hospital before launching its operation . <p> Gaza 's health ministry said fire had spread to several departments of the hospital . <p> NBC News ' crew in Gaza captured a blaze tearing through several units on Friday , with volunteers attempting to douse the flames with buckets of water , or sifting through smoldering rubble . <p> Israeli military spokesperson Nadav Shoshani said on X that there was no connection between the fire and IDF 's activity , adding that a " small fire " broke out while IDF troops were not in the hospital . <p> Nurses rushed to treat the injured in a wing of the hospital unaffected by fire while in another section , the crew witnessed the moment a boy on a gurney was pronounced dead . <p> One woman , sitting next to several shrouded bodies stacked on the hospital floor told the NBC News crew the names of some of the dead : " Ehassan is 7 years old , Dinaa she is 10 years old , and Mohamed is 12 years old . " <p> " What have the children done ? Why are you silent ? " she said , and pleaded to Allah , " reward us for our affliction and replace it with something better . " <p> " Every day , we say farewell to roses ; every day , we say farewell to grooms , " she said , referring to the Gaza 's youth killed in the war . <p> As the temperature plummeted outside , the ministry said patients and those injured in the attack were taken to the Indonesian hospital , which was already destroyed and out of servicebefore the patients arrived . <p> " They are in a very miserable and difficult situation , with no water , no electricity , no blankets , no food , and no supplies , " the Health Ministry said . <p> In a video geolocated by NBC News to the area around the hospital , two dozen men , stripped down to minimal clothing could be seen walking in a line with their hands raised on Friday . <p> Flanked by Israeli tanks , the men carried some belongings . The surrounding buildings were in ruins . <p> It is unclear if the men were members of the hospital staff . <p> A video posted to Abu Safia 's social media account and verified by NBC News showed a quadcopter dropping a bomb a few yards from the hospital . The bomb exploded with a loud bang , sending plumes of smoke into the air . <p> Israeli forces have killed more than 45,000 Palestinians , according to local health officials and destroyed much of Gaza 's infrastructure , including its healthcare system , since Oct. 7 , 2023 , when Hamas terror attacks killed 1,200 people in Israel and took some 250 people hostage , according to Israeli officials . <p> The World Health Organization said it was " appalled " by the Israeli raid , adding in a statement on Saturday that the forced removal of the patients " pose grave risks to their survival . " Saudi Arabia 's foreign ministry also condemned the raid in a statement on Friday . <p> With the destruction of Kamal Adwan , the Palestinian Health ministry noted that all three public hospitals in northern Gaza , including the Beit Hanoun Hospital and the Indonesian Hospital , are now out of service . <p> The attack on the hospital and the removals followed a strike on a building opposite to the hospital on Thursday , which killed nearly 50 people , including five medical staff , according to the health ministry . <p> The Israel Defense Forces in a statement to NBC News said it was targeting the hospital after receiving intel about the " presence of terrorist infrastructure and operatives carrying out terror activities " inside . It did not provide evidence . <p> Israeli attacks on Kamal Adwan in the past weeks have killed several medics and patients . An independent United Nations commission in October accused Israel of war crimes and perpetrating a " concerted policy to destroy Gaza 's healthcare system . " <p> Shortly after the assault on Friday , Gaza 's health ministry said contact with Abu Safia had been " cut off . " <p> It said separately that nearly 350 people from the hospital had been detained by Israeli forces , including 180 medical personnel and 75 injured patients and their family members . 
@@119373724 <h> Dreams on a Pillow , a game about the 1948 Nakba , is the latest from a daring dev <p> XTINA GGmakes short-form videos for Polygon 's TikTok and Instagram channels , in addition to co-hosting streams and YouTube videos . They joined Polygon in 2022 . <p> Dreams on a Pillow is a video game experience about the 1948 Nakba , an event where roughly 700,000 people were displaced from their land and homes due to Zionist occupation . <p> The game , described as " a pseudo-3D stealth adventure game about a land full of people being made into a people without land , " is from Palestinian developer Rasheed Abu-Eideh . But before I tell you more about that , let me tell you about his previous game . <p> In 2016 , Abu-Eideh released Liyla and the Shadows of War , a game about a 2014 assault on Gaza by Israel , known as Operation Protective Edge . Liyla follows a Palestinian girl and her family as they navigate attacks in their neighborhood . It 's short but emotional , and it blends elements of platformers and **25;498;TOOLONG storytelling . In 2021 , the game was a part of an Indie Bundle Pack that raised nearly $900,000 for Palestinian aid through UNRWA USA . <p> Currently , Liyla and the Shadows of War is free on mobile and Windows . But back in 2016 , it was initially rejected as a game in the Apple App Store . Abu-Eideh was told to remove all description of it as a " Game " and re-categorize it as " News " or " Reference " due to its political nature . The hypocrisy of the decision was noted by many at the time : As reported by Eurogamer , Apple denied Liyla as a game , but allowed a game called Israeli Heroes in the game section . After Abu-Eideh spoke about Apple 's decision on social media , Apple finally allowed Liyla to be categorized as a game . <p> Dreams on a Pillow is currently being crowdfunded by Abu-Eideh on LaunchGood till Jan. 13 , and funds raised from the LaunchGood campaign will go towards asset creation , outsourcing , and salaries for the current team of 9 individuals . The game is aiming to launch in Q4 2026. 
@@119373830 <p> For the past several weeks , Fadia Nasser , a widow sheltering in Deir al Balah in the central Gaza Strip , says she has subsisted on nothing but a small sandwich of herbs for breakfast and a tomato she shares with her daughter for lunch . <p> Eleven miles away in a tent camp in southern Gaza , Said Lulu , who used to run a small coffee kiosk in Gaza City , says he is suffering in pain from kidney disease but has no access to the clean water doctors say he must drink to keep it from getting worse . <p> And Ola Moen , in Beit Lahia in the enclave 's north , fears going outside because of frequent airstrikes . But she does n't feel she has a choice : She says she spends her days scouring pharmacies for burn cream and painkillers for her 9-year-old nephew , whose legs were broken and burned by an Israeli airstrike in October . <p> Advertisement <p> Even as mediators try to secure a cease-fire deal between Israel and Hamas , Palestinians and human rights organizations say the humanitarian situation is getting more desperate . <p> In the 14 months since Israel launched its invasion of Gaza in response to the Hamas-led terror attack on Israel , military bombardments have turned cities into rubble-filled wastelands , and 90% of the population of about 2.1 million has been displaced at least once . Winter is adding to the misery . A doctor at a hospital in Khan Younis , in southern Gaza , said four infants in tent encampments had died from the cold in the past week . <p> Israel says its target is Hamas and that it does everything possible to limit the loss of civilian life . But the increasingly dire humanitarian situation has prompted a particularly scathing chorus of condemnation from the United Nations and international human rights organizations . <p> Here is a closer look at three parts of Gaza 's humanitarian crisis . <h> Food <p> Yaser Shaban , a 58-year-old civil servant for the Palestinian Authority who is living with six people in a tent in Gaza City , is dependent on the limited supplies of food -- beans , lentils and pasta -- brought in by humanitarian organizations . <p> When those run out , he begs for food or uses his few remaining shekels to buy items from the market at vastly inflated prices . Fruit and meat are out of reach , he said . And eggs -- at 15 shekels , or $4 , each -- are a rare treat . <p> Advertisement <p> " I am not looking for delicious , healthy or luxury food , " he said . " The goal is to only beat hunger . " <p> The United Nations warned in November that 1.95 million people were at risk of famine and that absent a dramatic increase in food aid , people would start dying of hunger . On Dec. 24 , it said deliveries of humanitarian aid were still inadequate , particularly in the north , where Israel has ordered evacuations and severely restricted access . Israel is pressing a renewed offensive there in an effort to stamp out what it has called a Hamas resurgence , unleashing some of its military 's most devastating attacks yet . <p> Georgios Petropoulos , a senior U.N . official based in the southern city of Rafah , noted that even when Israeli authorities allow shipments of humanitarian aid in , they sometimes strip the deliveries of vital components , such as the fuel needed to run generators in hospitals and shelters . Israel says that the fuel can not be sent to areas where militants are active . <p> " From where we are in Gaza , it looks like the aid system has been weaponized , " Petropoulos said . " Every day as an aid worker in Gaza , you 're forced to make horrible decisions : Should I let people die of starvation or the cold ? " <p> On Dec. 5 , Amnesty International accused Israel of carrying out genocide in Gaza , citing prevalent hunger , the risk of famine and the inaccessibility of aid as contributing factors . Israel rejected the claim , and the Israeli authority that coordinates the flow of goods to Gaza said on social media that the group 's accusation that it is obstructing aid deliveries and precipitating famine " deliberately and inaccurately ignores the extensive humanitarian efforts made by Israel , " and listed recent deliveries of food , fuel and medical supplies . <p> Advertisement <p> There is little question that aid delivery has been reduced to a trickle , both because of Israeli restrictions and concerns about looting . To Nassar , what matters is that she still does not have enough to eat . She said that there is food in the market -- most often smuggled in or looted from humanitarian aid convoys -- so to outsiders , " it may not look like famine . " <p> " But when food is so expensive that most people can not afford it , is it still available ? " she asked . <h> Water <p> Lulu has no regular access to a tap for water . He lives in a tent camp in Rafah , in southern Gaza , and the water there is delivered by the tankload to a central area , where residents wait in line for hours to fill up their jars and buckets , at 2 shekels , or 50 cents , a gallon . <p> But the quality is dubious : smelly , cloudy and flecked with debris . " The only good thing about it , " he said , " is that it is less bad than the seawater . " He knows that drinking the water will exacerbate his kidney problems , but bottled water is unaffordable . <p> It was n't always that way . Gaza has water treatment plants , desalinization facilities and three pipelines channeling fresh water from Israel . But in a report released Dec. 19 , Human Rights Watch said Israel was intentionally depriving Palestinians in Gaza of adequate access to safe water for drinking and sanitation . <p> The pipelines were turned off and damaged from bombing at the start of the war and only partially reopened a month later , the report found . Israel 's restrictions on fuel imports have virtually halted desalinization activities . Water and sanitation infrastructure has sustained extensive damage , the report found . Israel also prevented the importation of equipment and chemicals , such as chlorine , needed for purifying water , saying those items risked being used by Hamas . <p> Advertisement <p> As a result , Palestinians have little access to clean water . The report recorded 669,000 recorded cases of acute watery diarrhea since the war began , and more than 132,000 cases of jaundice , a sign of hepatitis . Both diseases spread via contaminated water . <p> The Israeli Ministry of Defense said in response to the report that Israeli pipelines were sending millions of gallons of water into the Gaza Strip and that Israel had helped repair damage to the water infrastructure caused by Hamas . Human Rights Watch noted that water from the pipelines was insufficient to offset the decrease in water production from other sources . <p> Moen says she spends two hours a day waiting in line to buy drinking water -- at 19 shekels a gallon , or more than $5 , in north Gaza . And she still has to boil and filter it . " At least I do n't see worms in it , " she said . " That is our criteria now . " <h> Medicine <p> When Moen 's house in Beit Lahia was hit in October , most of her immediate family died . Others were injured and are still in need of medical treatment . But painkillers , antibiotics and medicine for chronic diseases like diabetes are impossible to find . <p> She fears getting sick or injured . Going to a hospital is out of the question , she said . They are unclean , reek of death and blood , and lack the most basic supplies . <p> Advertisement <p> Few are functioning properly . The Israeli military forced patients and staff members on Friday to leave one of the last functioning hospitals in northern Gaza , saying it was a stronghold for Hamas . Fighting has raged around the facility , Kamal Adwan , for nearly three months . <p> On Dec. 19 , a report from Doctors Without Borders described repeated Israeli military attacks on Gaza 's civilians and medical infrastructure , along with the " systematic denial of humanitarian assistance , " as " clear signs of ethnic cleansing . " Israel 's foreign minister slammed the report as " blood libel . " <p> Moen does n't need a report to tell her what is going on in Gaza , she said . Nor does she think it will make a difference . <p> " It 's been over a year of mass killing , starvation , displacement and misery , and no one seems to care , " she said . 
@@119376020 <p> DEIR AL BALAH , Gaza Strip -- Israel 's army detained the director of one of northern Gaza ' s last functioning hospitals as overnight strikes elsewhere in the territory killed nine people , including children , Palestinian medical officials said Saturday . Israel 's military alleged that Hamas militants were using the facility and said over 240 people were detained . <p> Gaza 's Health Ministry said Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya , director of Kamal Adwan Hospital , was arrested Friday along with dozens of other staff and taken to an interrogation center . The ministry said Israeli troops stormed the hospital and forced many staff and patients outside and told them to strip in winter weather , according to the ministry . <p> Israel 's military on Saturday confirmed it detained the hospital director for questioning and called him a suspected Hamas operative while providing no evidence . It said it encircled the hospital and special forces entered and found weapons in the area . It said militants fired on its forces and they were " eliminated . " An Israeli military spokesman , Lt. Col. Nadav Shoshani , later asserted to journalists that most of those detained are Hamas operatives . <p> On Friday , the military denied it had entered or set fire to the hospital complex but acknowledged it had ordered people outside . The military repeated claims that Hamas militants operate inside Kamal Adwan , which hospital officials have denied . <p> The hospital has been hit multiple times over the past three months by Israeli troops waging an offensive in largely isolated northern Gaza against Hamas fighters it says have regrouped . The health ministry said a strike on the hospital earlier this week killed five medical personnel . <p> MedGlobal , the humanitarian organization for which Abu Safiya worked , said Friday it was gravely concerned about him . It said the incident follows the October detention of five other staff , calling it an " alarming and egregious pattern of targeting medical personnel and spaces . " <p> Israel 's nearly 15-month-old campaign of bombardment and ground offensives has devastated Gaza 's health sector . The World Health Organization has said the raid on Kamal Adwan has put northern Gaza 's last major health facility " out of service " after growing restrictions on access , adding that " this horror must end and health care must be protected . " <p> The Health Ministry said conditions for Kamal Adwan patients who were relocated to the damaged Indonesian Hospital nearby -- also raided in the past -- were " extremely difficult . " <p> The Israeli military statement Saturday said 350 patients along with medical personnel had been evacuated from Kamal Adwan in recent weeks , and another 95 patients , caregivers , and medical personnel were evacuated to the Indonesian Hospital during the operation . It also said it had provided fuel and medical supplies to both hospitals . <p> The war has killed more than 45,400 Palestinians , over half of them women and children , and wounded more than 108,000 others , according to the Health Ministry . Its count does not distinguish between civilians and combatants . <p> Since October , Israel 's offensive has virtually sealed off the northern Gaza areas of Jabaliya , Beit Hanoun and Beit Lahiya and leveled large parts of them . Tens of thousands of Palestinians were forced out but thousands are believed to remain in the area where Kamal Adwan and two other hospitals are located . <p> Israel has vowed to destroy Hamas after the militants ' Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack on southern Israel in which they killed around 1,200 people and abducted some 250 others . Some 100 Israelis remain captive in Gaza , and around a third are believed to be dead . <p> Israel continued attacks across Gaza on Saturday . An overnight strike killed at least nine people in Maghazi , including women and children , according to staff at Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital where they were taken and an Associated Press reporter who saw the bodies . <p> Men cried as the bodies , wrapped in bloodied white plastic , lay on the floor of the morgue . <p> The Health Ministry said Saturday that 48 people had been killed in the past 24 hours by Israeli fire . <p> Meanwhile , Israel said its troops had begun operating in the northern city of Beit Hanoun , citing intelligence that fighters and Hamas infrastructure were in the area . 
@@119383835 <p> Israel detains a Gaza hospital director , Palestinian medical officials sayGaza 's Health Ministry said the head of Kamal Adwan Hospital was arrested along with dozens of other staff . Israel 's military alleged Hamas militants were using the facility . <p> DEIR AL BALAH , Gaza Strip -- Israel 's army detained the director of one of northern Gaza ' s last functioning hospitals as overnight strikes elsewhere in the territory killed nine people , including children , Palestinian medical officials said Saturday . Israel 's military alleged that Hamas militants were using the facility and said over 240 people were detained . <p> Gaza 's Health Ministry said Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya , director of Kamal Adwan Hospital , was arrested Friday along with dozens of other staff and taken to an interrogation center . The ministry said Israeli troops stormed the hospital and forced many staff and patients outside and told them to strip in winter weather , according to the ministry . <p> Sponsor Message <h> Middle East <h> Israeli forces have raided one of the last working hospitals in northern Gaza <p> Israel 's military on Saturday confirmed it detained the hospital director for questioning and called him a suspected Hamas operative while providing no evidence . It said it encircled the hospital and special forces entered and found weapons in the area . It said militants fired on its forces and they were " eliminated . " An Israeli military spokesman , Lt. Col. Nadav Shoshani , later asserted to journalists that most of those detained are Hamas operatives . <p> On Friday , the military denied it had entered or set fire to the hospital complex but acknowledged it had ordered people outside . The military repeated claims that Hamas militants operate inside Kamal Adwan , which hospital officials have denied . <p> The hospital has been hit multiple times over the past three months by Israeli troops waging an offensive in largely isolated northern Gaza against Hamas fighters it says have regrouped . The health ministry said a strike on the hospital earlier this week killed five medical personnel . <p> MedGlobal , the humanitarian organization for which Abu Safiya worked , said Friday it was gravely concerned about him . It said the incident follows the October detention of five other staff , calling it an " alarming and egregious pattern of targeting medical personnel and spaces . " <p> Israel 's nearly 15-month-old campaign of bombardment and ground offensives has devastated Gaza 's health sector . The World Health Organization has said the raid on Kamal Adwan has put northern Gaza 's last major health facility " out of service " after growing restrictions on access , adding that " this horror must end and health care must be protected . " <p> The Health Ministry said conditions for Kamal Adwan patients who were relocated to the damaged Indonesian Hospital nearby -- also raided in the past -- were " extremely difficult . " <p> The Israeli military statement Saturday said 350 patients along with medical personnel had been evacuated from Kamal Adwan in recent weeks , and another 95 patients , caregivers , and medical personnel were evacuated to the Indonesian Hospital during the operation . It also said it had provided fuel and medical supplies to both hospitals . <p> Sponsor Message <p> The war has killed more than 45,400 Palestinians , over half of them women and children , and wounded more than 108,000 others , according to the Health Ministry . Its count does not distinguish between civilians and combatants . <p> Since October , Israel 's offensive has virtually sealed off the northern Gaza areas of Jabaliya , Beit Hanoun and Beit Lahiya and leveled large parts of them . Tens of thousands of Palestinians were forced out but thousands are believed to remain in the area where Kamal Adwan and two other hospitals are located . <p> Israel has vowed to destroy Hamas after the militants ' Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack on southern Israel in which they killed around 1,200 people and abducted some 250 others . Some 100 Israelis remain captive in Gaza , and around a third are believed to be dead . <p> Israel continued attacks across Gaza on Saturday . An overnight strike killed at least nine people in Maghazi , including women and children , according to staff at Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital where they were taken and an Associated Press reporter who saw the bodies . <p> Men cried as the bodies , wrapped in bloodied white plastic , lay on the floor of the morgue . <p> The Health Ministry said Saturday that 48 people had been killed in the past 24 hours by Israeli fire . <p> Meanwhile , Israel said its troops had begun operating in the northern city of Beit Hanoun , citing intelligence that fighters and Hamas infrastructure were in the area . 
@@119403426 <h> These 10 Charts Will Help You Understand 2024 <p> Mr. Rattner was counselor to the Treasury secretary in the Obama administration . <p> Dec. 29 , 2024 <p> Donald Trump triumphs . The economy chugs along . A tech billionaire builds a shadow presidency . These are just some of the notable events that defined 2024 . Meanwhile , the challenges of climate change persist while exciting new developments like artificial intelligence continue to amaze . I dove into the data and found 10 charts that I believe best illustrate this year 's biggest developments . They help us understand what happened -- and provide a glimpse of where we may be going . <h> 1 . America Steps Right <p> Change in vote share for Trump , 2020-2024 <p> +20 pct . <p> points <p> -5 <p> 0 <p> 5 <p> 10 <p> 15 <p> +7 percentage points <p> 18-29 <p> +1 <p> 30-44 <p> +4 <p> 45-64 <p> -2 <p> 65 or older <p> Black men <p> +2 <p> Black women <p> -2 <p> +18 <p> Latino men <p> Latino women <p> +9 <p> White men <p> -1 <p> -2 <p> White women <p> +9 <p> All other races <p> Rural <p> +7 <p> Suburban <p> +3 <p> Urban <p> No change <p> +6 <p> No college degree <p> -1 <p> College graduate <p> Change in vote share for Trump , 2020-2024 <p> -5 <p> 0 <p> 5 <p> 10 <p> +15 pct. points <p> +7 percentage points <p> 18-29 <p> +1 <p> 30-44 <p> +4 <p> 45-64 <p> -2 <p> 65 or older <p> +2 <p> Black men <p> -2 <p> Black women <p> +18 <p> Latino men <p> +9 <p> Latino women <p> -1 <p> White men <p> -2 <p> White women <p> +9 <p> All other races <p> +7 <p> Rural <p> +3 <p> Suburban <p> No change <p> Urban <p> +6 <p> No college degree <p> -1 <p> College graduate <p> Source : CNN exit poll <p> Mr. Trump might have won the election 's popular vote by just 1.5 percentage points , but by many other measures , his victory was decisive and broad . He carried every state considered to be in play , including the Democrats ' traditional blue wall of Wisconsin , Michigan and Pennsylvania . <p> At least as consequential is the fact that many Democrats stayed home : Turnout in their strongholds was weaker than four years earlier . Meanwhile , Mr. Trump made major inroads among Latinos , Black men and younger Americans -- reflecting at least in part their disgruntlement over slow growth in real personal incomes , the immigration surge under President Biden and the belief that the Democratic Party has moved too far to the left on social issues . <h> 2 . An Expensive Campaign Season <p> money spent on u.s. elections <p> $18 billion <p> 16 <p> 14 <p> Presidential campaigns <p> 12 <p> 10 <p> Congressional campaigns <p> 8 <p> 6 <p> 4 <p> 2 <p> 2000 <p> 2004 <p> 2008 <p> 2012 <p> 2016 <p> 2020 <p> 2024 <p> money raised for each campaign , <p> by type of donation <p> $1 <p> billion <p> $1.5 <p> billion <p> $2 <p> billion <p> $500 <p> million <p> $2.5 <p> billion <p> Trump <p> Harris <p> D.N.C./ <p> R.N.C . <p> Large <p> donations <p> Small <p> donations <p> Single-candidate <p> PACs <p> Other <p> money spent on u.s. elections <p> $18 billion <p> 16 <p> 14 <p> Presidential campaigns <p> 12 <p> 10 <p> Congressional campaigns <p> 8 <p> 6 <p> 4 <p> 2 <p> 2000 <p> 2004 <p> 2008 <p> 2012 <p> 2016 <p> 2020 <p> 2024 <p> Money RAISED for each campaign , <p> by type of donation <p> $1 <p> billion <p> $1.5 <p> billion <p> $2 <p> billion <p> $500 <p> million <p> $2.5 <p> billion <p> Trump <p> Harris <p> Large donations <p> D.N.C./R.N.C . <p> Small <p> donations <p> Single-candidate PACs <p> Other <p> Source : OpenSecrets <p> Note : Figures are adjusted for inflation . <p> Vice President Kamala Harris 's loss was not for lack of resources . Once again , the Democrats substantially outraised their Republican opponents , with Ms. Harris besting Mr. Trump among both small donors and large contributors . <p> Only among PACs that back single candidates did Mr. Trump do better , in part because some technology executives defected from the Democrats over regulatory issues such as cryptocurrency and antitrust . <p> While a staggering $5 billion was spent on the presidential election , that is actually slightly less ( adjusting for inflation ) than four years earlier , as that period included factors such as Michael Bloomberg 's expensive presidential bid and the two Senate runoffs in Georgia . <p> Note : Indexed charts are indexed to the beginning of each presidency . G.D.P . is adjusted for inflation . Inflation is the year-over-year change in the personal consumption expenditure price index from the start of each presidency . <p> On traditional measures , the economy had a strong year . Inflation moderated , drifting down almost to the Federal Reserve 's target of 2 percent . Growth remained brisk , adding a commensurate number of jobs . And the stock market repeatedly hit record highs . <p> By many measures , after adjustments for the impact of Covid , the economy performed as well under Mr. Biden as under Mr. Trump . But the lingering sting of inflation was costly to the Democrats . <p> In December , the Federal Reserve shocked markets by lowering the number of projected interest rate cuts next year to two from four . That reflected a mix of good news ( faster growth ) and bad news ( stubborn inflation ) . <h> 4 . Manufacturing Investment Surged <p> monthly manufacturing construction spending <p> $22 billion <p> 20 <p> Inflation Reduction Act passed <p> 18 <p> 16 <p> 14 <p> 12 <p> 10 <p> 8 <p> 6 <p> 4 <p> 2 <p> 2005 <p> 2010 <p> 2015 <p> 2020 <p> monthly manufacturing construction spending <p> $22 billion <p> 20 <p> 18 <p> Inflation Reduction Act passed <p> 16 <p> 14 <p> 12 <p> 10 <p> 8 <p> 6 <p> 4 <p> 2 <p> 2005 <p> 2010 <p> 2015 <p> 2020 <p> Sources : Bureau of Labor Statistics ; Census Bureau <p> Note : Spending is adjusted for inflation . <p> One of the brightest spots in the economy has been the strong surge in corporate investments , particularly in manufacturing facilities . The latter was substantially stimulated by two major pieces of legislation passed during the Biden administration . The inaccurately titled Inflation Reduction Act offered tax credits and other assistance for climate-friendly energy projects while the CHIPS and Science Act allocated nearly $40 billion to stimulate production of semiconductors in the United States . Investment in other areas , particularly relating to technology and artificial intelligence , has also been increasing rapidly , a promising sign for future economic growth . <h> 5 . Elon Musk Had a Great Year <p> Composition of Elon Musk 's net worth <p> $150 billion <p> $100 <p> $50 <p> June 2024 <p> Tesla shares <p> December 2024 <p> $195 billion <p> SpaceX stake <p> $136 billion <p> Tesla options <p> $134 billion <p> xAI stake <p> $25 billion <p> X stake <p> $7 billion <p> The Boring <p> Company stake <p> $3 billion <p> Neuralink <p> stake <p> $2 billion <p> Liabilities <p> -$23 <p> billion <p> Composition of Elon Musk 's net worth <p> $150 billion <p> $50 <p> $100 <p> June 2024 <p> Tesla shares <p> December 2024 <p> $195 billion <p> SpaceX stake <p> $136 billion <p> Tesla options <p> $134 billion <p> xAI stake <p> $25 billion <p> X stake <p> $7 billion <p> The Boring <p> Company stake <p> $3 billion <p> Neuralink stake <p> $2 billion <p> Liabilities <p> -$23 billion <p> Source : Bloomberg <p> Perhaps the most extraordinary development of the Trump transition was the emergence of the technology billionaire Elon Musk as a kind of co-president-elect . In mid-December , Mr. Musk -- who displays little knowledge of how Washington works -- declared his opposition to a legislative package to prevent a government shutdown , exacerbating Washington 's penchant for chaos . <p> Meanwhile , he has benefited enormously from aligning with Mr. Trump , whose victory set off a near doubling in the Tesla stock price and contributed to a 67 percent increase in the value of SpaceX since June . That adds up to an extraordinary increase of more than $200 billion in Mr. Musk 's net worth , cementing his position as the richest person in the world . Pretty good return on his investment of $277 million in the Trump campaign and those of other Republicans . ( He was the largest political donor this election season. ) <h> 6 . Border Encounters Dropped <p> monthly encounters at the southern border , <p> by country of origin <p> 300,000 <p> Trump <p> Biden <p> 250,000 <p> 200,000 <p> 150,000 <p> Other <p> 100,000 <p> Mexico <p> 50,000 <p> Guatemala <p> 2017 <p> 2018 <p> 2019 <p> 2020 <p> 2021 <p> 2022 <p> 2023 <p> 2024 <p> monthly encounters at the southern border , <p> by country of origin <p> 300,000 <p> 250,000 <p> Trump <p> Biden <p> 200,000 <p> 150,000 <p> Other <p> 100,000 <p> Mexico <p> 50,000 <p> Honduras <p> Guatemala <p> 2017 <p> 2018 <p> 2019 <p> 2020 <p> 2021 <p> 2022 <p> 2023 <p> 2024 <p> Source : U.S. Customs and Border Protection <p> Note : Encounters by country are unavailable before 2019 . <p> A significant factor in the Democrats ' election loss was doubtless Americans ' fears of migrants storming our southern border . Yes , Mr. Biden made a consequential mistake early in his presidency by at least seeming to encourage migrants to try to enter the United States , resulting in a surge of encounters to more than 300,000 a month by late 2023 , compared with 74,000 at the end of the Trump presidency . <p> But what Americans do n't seem to recognize -- or give Mr. Biden credit for -- was that by the fall of 2024 , the total had dropped almost all the way back to where it was four years earlier . <p> Note : G20 countries with elections in 2024 . South Korea uses the share of legislature seats , not vote share . <p> The anti-incumbency mien in America was matched in 2024 by a similar -- or even greater -- desire for change in other countries . Of the nine G20 democracies that held national elections this year , the party in power lost vote share in seven of them . <p> In fact , the shift in the United States was among the smallest in percentage terms ; in Britain , for example , voters gave the Labour Party a landslide victory in the House of Commons and the incumbent Conservative Party 's share of the vote dropped by 20 percentage points . <h> 8 . Global Temperatures Remain High <p> Average global temperature <p> +1.5 ? C above 20th-century average <p> 2023 <p> 1.25 <p> 2024 <p> 1 <p> 0.75 <p> 0.5 <p> Years since 1850 <p> 0.25 <p> 0 <p> -0.25 <p> -0.5 <p> Jan . <p> Mar . <p> May <p> Jul . <p> Sep . <p> Nov . <p> Average global temperature <p> +1.5 ? C above 20th-century average <p> 2023 <p> 1.25 <p> 2024 <p> 1 <p> 0.75 <p> 0.5 <p> Years since 1850 <p> 0.25 <p> 0 <p> -0.25 <p> -0.5 <p> Jan . <p> Feb . <p> Mar . <p> Apr . <p> May <p> Jun . <p> Jul . <p> Aug . <p> Sep . <p> Oct . <p> Nov . <p> Dec . <p> Source : National Centers for Environmental Information <p> While the fact that the climate is warming is hardly news anymore , the magnitude of the jump from prior years was noteworthy . Average temperatures were 0.1 degree Celsius above the prior year , which had been the hottest year on record , and 1.3 degrees above the 20th-century average . Weather patterns continued to prove erratic , from hurricanes in western North Carolina to wildfires in the Northeast . <p> Note : The Internet was introduced in 1975 and personal computers were introduced in 1981 . Stocks are indexed to January 2023 . <p> Meanwhile , the artificial intelligence rocket ship continued to accelerate . A.I. has attained the fastest rate of adoption of any new technology in memory . The early success of OpenAI 's ChatGPT , which performed many tasks from drafting computer code to composing sonnets , helped spawn a raft of competitors and an even larger array of applications . The shares of companies at the center of the A.I. boom , such as the chip designer Nvidia , Meta , Alphabet and Amazon , soared . Artificial intelligence may not prove to be the financial bonanza that the market is anticipating , but it seems certain to change our lives -- largely , I believe , for the better . <h> 10 . Death From Armed Conflict Slows <p> fatalities from armed conflict <p> 300,000 <p> Ukraine <p> Israel , <p> Gaza and <p> the West <p> Bank <p> 200,000 <p> Ethiopia <p> Syria <p> 100,000 <p> Other countries <p> 1995 <p> 2000 <p> 2010 <p> 2005 <p> 2015 <p> 2020 <p> 2024 <p> fatalities from armed conflict <p> 300,000 <p> Ukraine <p> Israel , <p> Gaza and <p> the West <p> Bank <p> 200,000 <p> Ethiopia <p> Syria <p> 100,000 <p> Other countries <p> 1995 <p> 2000 <p> 2010 <p> 2005 <p> 2015 <p> 2020 <p> 2024 <p> Source : Uppsala Conflict Data Program <p> Note : Data for 2024 goes through November . <p> While armed conflict again was front of mind for many Americans , at least global death tolls retreated modestly for the second successive year . Although the war in Ukraine and the conflict in Gaza dominated news coverage , violence also continued in other places around the globe , including Sudan and Mexico . <p> In December , Syria 's regime under Bashar al-Assad unexpectedly collapsed , a welcome end to a murderous reign . Whether conflict and deaths in Syria will also end remains , however , uncertain . <p> Steven Rattner is a contributing Opinion writer and the chairman and chief executive of Willett Advisors . He was a counselor to the Treasury secretary in the Obama administration . <p> The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor . We 'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles . Here are some tips . And here 's our email : letters@nytimes.com . <p> Follow the New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Instagram , TikTok , WhatsApp , X and Threads . 
@@119404331 <h> Best-selling author and humor columnist Dave Barry looks back at the crazy year of 2024 in his annual Year in Review . ( Visoot , Adobe Stock ( AI ) ) <p> This is Part 1 of author and humor columnist Dave Barry 's annual Year in Review . <p> How stupid was 2024 ? <p> Let 's start with the art world , which over the centuries has given humanity so many beautiful , timeless masterpieces . This year , the biggest story involving art , by far , was that a cryptocurrency businessman paid $6.2 million at a Sotheby 's auction for ... <p> A banana . <p> Which he ate . <p> " It 's much better than other bananas , " he told the press . <p> And that was not the stupidest thing that happened in 2024 . It might not even crack the top 10 . Because this was also a year when : <p> The Olympics awarded medals for breakdancing . <p> Fully grown adults got into fights in Target stores over " Stanley " brand drinking cups , which are part of the national obsession with hydration that causes many Americans to carry large-capacity beverage containers at all times as if they 're setting off on a trek across the Sahara instead of going to Trader Joe 's . <p> Despite multiple instances of property damage , injury and even death , expectant couples continued to insist on revealing the genders of their unborn children by blowing things up , instead of simply telling people . <p> The number of people who identify as " influencers " continued to grow exponentially , which means that unless we find a cure , within 10 years everybody on the planet will be trying to make a living by influencing everybody else . <p> Hundreds of millions of Americans set their clocks ahead in March , then set them all back in November -- without having the faintest idea why . ( Granted , Americans do this every year ; we 're just pointing out that it 's stupid ) . <p> But what made 2024 truly special , in terms of sustained idiocy , was that it was an election year . This meant that day after day , month after month , the average American voter was subjected to a relentless gushing spew of campaign messaging created by political professionals who -- no matter what side they 're on -- all share one unshakeable core belief , which is that the average American voter has the intellectual capacity of a potted fern . It was a brutal , depressing slog , and it felt as though it would never end . It may still be going on in California , a state that apparently tabulates its ballots on a defective Etch-a-Sketch . <p> For most of us , though , the elections and this insane year , are finally over . But before we move on to whatever ( heaven help us ) lies ahead , let 's ingest our anti-nausea medication and take one last cringing look back at the events of 2024 , starting with ... <h> January <p> The nation finds itself trapped in a 1970s slasher movie , the kind in which some teenagers -- played by the major political parties -- are in a creepy house , being pursued by a terrifying entity , played by a rerun of the 2020 presidential election . <p> The only sane thing for the teenagers to do is get the heck out of there , but , instead , they pause by the dark , scary-looking doorway leading down to the basement , and despite the fact that the theater audience -- played by the American public -- is shouting DO N'T GO DOWN THERE ! JUST LEAVE THE HOUSE YOU IDIOTS ! -- the teenagers decide to go down into the basement , only to find OH NOOOOOO . <p> And so , thanks to our political system -- under which the nominees for the most powerful office in the world are chosen by approximately 73 people in approximately four rural states while the vast majority of Americans are still taking down their Christmas decorations -- we once again find ourselves facing a choice between Joe Biden and Donald Trump . <p> Both candidates carry baggage . Trump is wanted on criminal charges in something like 23 states and , if elected , could become the first president to govern from a secret hideout . His speeches are sounding increasingly unhinged , which is no small feat since he did not sound particularly hinged in the first place . <p> For his part , President Biden keeps saying words that do not appear in any known human language and gives the impression that any day now he 's going to shuffle into a state dinner wearing only a bathrobe . But not necessarily his bathrobe . <p> In other words , we have one candidate who lost the last election but claims he won it , and another candidate who won the last election but might not remember what year that was . America , the choice is yours ! <p> Meanwhile , the nation is facing some serious problems . <p> Foremost among them is the situation on the border with Mexico , which at one time was a legally separate nation from the United States but is now basically functioning as a vestibule . This has resulted in a tense confrontation between the federal government and Texas , which is alarming because , in the words of one military analyst , " Texas has way more guns . " <p> In government news , the Pentagon is harshly criticized for taking more than three days to notify the White House that Defense Secretary Lloyd J. Austin Ill had been hospitalized . This prompts the administration to check up on the rest of the cabinet , only to discover that at least four other secretaries are missing , and the secretary of Commerce died three years ago . <p> Abroad , fighting continues to rage in both Ukraine and Gaza , although these conflicts are no longer getting a ton of attention in the U.S. media because of all the news being generated by Taylor Swift . <p> In a troubling aviation incident , an Alaska Airlines Boeing 737 Max 9 flying at 16,000 feet suddenly develops a refrigerator-sized hole in the fuselage when an improperly attached panel blows off , terrifying passengers who have reason to wonder whether the airline crew , instead of making a big deal about the position of everybody 's tray table , should maybe be checking to see if the plane has been correctly bolted together . <p> As a safety precaution , the Federal Aviation Administration grounds all Max 9s and advises passengers on other Boeing aircraft to " avoid sitting near windows . " For its part , Boeing states that " at least the plane did n't lose a really important part , like one of the whaddycallits , wings . " <p> Speaking of big corporations making questionable products , in ... <h> February <p> ... Apple launches the much-anticipated " Vision Pro , " a virtual-reality headset costing more than your grandfather paid ( Just ask him ! ) for his first car . But it 's worth it because when you put it on , thanks to a revolutionary " spatial computing " system coupled with 12 cameras and a 23-million-pixel display , you look like an idiot . <p> Special counsel Robert Hur concludes his yearlong investigation into Joe Biden 's handling of classified documents by releasing a 388-page report concluding that Biden " does not appear to have all his oars in the water . " An angry Biden immediately holds a press conference , during which he heatedly denies Hur 's assertion and ( this really happened ) refers to Egyptian leader Abdel Fattah el-Sisi as the " president of Mexico . " <p> In other White House news , CNN , after reviewing documents obtained through the Freedom of Information Act , reports that the Biden family 's German shepherd , Commander , bit Secret Service personnel in at least 24 incidents , eclipsing the record previously held by Dick Cheney . <p> Meanwhile , Donald Trump , who is appearing in court more often than Perry Mason , is found guilty by a New York civil judge on charges of financial fraud , aiding and abetting , aggravated contempt , disorderly obstruction , second-degree vagrancy and loitering with intent to conspire . The judge fines Trump nearly half a billion dollars and bans him for the next three years from riding in any motorcade more than six cars long . Two days later a defiant Trump attends an event called " Sneaker Con , " where ( this also really happened ) he unveils a line of footwear , including the gold-colored Never Surrender High Top Sneaker ( Actual Marketing Slogan : " Your rally cry in shoe form " ) . <p> In a highly controversial decision , the Alabama Supreme Court ruled that frozen embryos are , for legal purposes , children , and therefore must immediately be thawed out and provided with iPhones . <p> Tucker Carlson conducts a two-hour interview with Vladimir Putin , offering Westerners a rare opportunity to find out what the Russian leader really thinks . It turns out he thinks Tucker Carlson is a useful idiot . <p> In a Super Bowl for the ages , two teams compete against each other under the watchful gaze of Taylor Swift . <p> Speaking of spectacles , in ... <h> March <p> ... President Biden , seeking to dispel persistent rumors that he is an elderly man , delivers a State of the Union address consisting almost entirely of shouting . This performance does not significantly improve his poll numbers , but it 's a big hit with members of the Washington press corps , several hundred of whom decide , independently , to describe the speech as " fiery . " <p> In their response , the Republicans , always looking for new ways to demonstrate their incompetence , elect to have Alabama Sen. Katie Britt deliver a disturbingly melodramatic talk from ( Why not ? ) her kitchen , where she gives the impression that she has just ingested a wide range of pharmaceuticals , and nobody , least of all Sen. Britt , knows which one is going to kick in next . <p> Yet another federal budget crisis is averted at the last minute when Congress passes a $1.2 trillion spending bill , which will enable the government to keep spending insanely more money than it takes in . The U.S. debt is now growing at the rate of a trillion dollars every 100 days , but fortunately this is not a problem because it will be taken care of by future generations . " No problem ! Just put it on our tab ! " is the view of future generations , and that is why we love them . <p> In other high-finance news , Donald Trump 's lawyers tell a New York court that he can not raise the nearly half-billion dollars he needs for an appeal bond , having been turned down by more than 30 bond companies and an individual known as Anthony " Tony Three Nostrils " Avocado . Trump gets a break when an appeals court lowers the amount to $175 million , which Trump says he definitely has , although he left it in his other pants . <p> In a possibly related development , Trump announces that he is selling -- we are not making this up -- " God Bless the USA " Bibles for $59.95 a pop . <p> " It 's my favorite book , " he states , moments before being struck by lightning . <p> No , that did not happen and you are a bad person for even fantasizing about it . <p> In aviation news , a Boeing plane flying from Australia to New Zealand suddenly goes into a nosedive , injuring 50 people . Another Boeing plane , taking off from the San Francisco airport , loses a piece of landing gear . A Boeing spokesperson says that the company , after conducting an in-depth review , has tentatively identified the root cause of the recent problems . <p> " We think it 's gravity , " said the spokesperson . " It seems to be getting worse . " As a safety precaution , Boeing is advising pilots to avoid taking off , and simply taxi the planes from city to city , which the spokesperson says " may result in delays , especially to overseas destinations . " <p> Speaking of exciting things happening in the sky , in ... <h> April <p> ... the nation is enthralled by a total eclipse , a rare celestial occurrence in which the earth , sun and moon align in such a way as to cause a large number of people to deliberately travel to Indianapolis . Huge crowds in the path of the totality watch excitedly as the sky gradually turns completely dark -- a spectacular sight that most people will never witness again in their lifetimes unless they 're still around at sunset . <p> In other natural phenomena , a magnitude 4.8 earthquake with an epicenter in central New Jersey rattles the northeast . New York City is completely paralyzed , although not because of the earthquake ; it 's always completely paralyzed . But for a few seconds , there is slightly less honking . <p> New York remains in the news with the onset of the single most exciting thing ever to happen to CNN : yet another trial of Donald Trump . In this one he 's charged with falsifying business records as part of a scheme to guarantee that every single human being on the planet , including members of primitive tribes in the Amazon jungle , would be aware that Trump had a one-night stand with porn star Stormy Daniels . <p> At least that 's how it worked out . <p> South Dakota Gov . Kristi Noem , a contender to be Trump 's running mate , bolsters her case with a new book in which she reveals -- apparently on the advice of the same public relations firm used by Boeing -- that she once shot and killed her family dog , Cricket . Many people are appalled by this revelation , although Noem 's supporters note that she would be a handy person to have around the White House if the Commander ever comes back . <p> Speaking of commanders : President Biden , campaigning in Pennsylvania , suggests -- twice -- that his uncle was eaten by cannibals after his plane went down off the New Guinea coast during World War II . The prime minister of Papua New Guinea objects to the president 's cannibal story on the nitpicky grounds that it is not true . Nevertheless , the president seems to sincerely believe that it happened , and it was HIS uncle , dammit . <p> As the tragic situation in Gaza worsens , American college students on a growing number of campuses engage in protests and other dramatic actions intended to draw attention to the single most important issue facing the world : the feelings of American college students . <p> Speaking of drama , in ... <h> May <p> ... Stormy Daniels tells a New York jury in explicit detail about her encounter with Donald Trump during a 2006 celebrity golf tournament , testifying that when she came out of the bathroom in Trump 's hotel suite , he was waiting for her wearing only a T-shirt and boxer shorts , and before she could stop him he proceeded to falsify business records . <p> True Trivia Fact : Trump finished 62nd in that celebrity tournament . <p> The golfer who finished 43rd was Dan Quayle . <p> On weekends , when he 's not in court , Trump continues to campaign for president . While discussing immigration policy at a rally in New Jersey , he makes the following statement , printed here verbatim : <p> " Silence of the Lambs . Has anyone ever seen The Silence of the Lambs ? The late , great Hannibal Lecter is a wonderful man . He often times would have a friend for dinner . Remember the last scene ? ' Excuse me . I 'm about to have a friend for dinner , ' as this poor doctor walked by . ' I 'm about to have a friend for dinner . ' But Hannibal Lecter . Congratulations . The late , great Hannibal Lecter . " <p> This statement raises several questions , including : <p> What ? <p> Seriously , what ? <p> Is it possible that it was actually Hannibal Lecter who ate Joe Biden 's uncle ? <p> Speaking of Joe Biden , his poll numbers continue to be bad as voters express their unhappiness about the economy , especially inflation . This is very frustrating for White House spokespersons , who are constantly pointing out that inflation is no longer a problem on whatever planet it is that White House spokespersons live on . Unfortunately , it 's still a problem here on Earth , where prices are significantly higher for basic needs such as food , gas , housing and tickets to the Met Gala , which cost only $50,000 last year but jumped to $75,000 this year , leaving many attendees so broke that they are forced to attend wearing what appear to be Halloween costumes . <p> In other presidential news , Robert F. Kennedy Jr. , seeking to set himself apart from the two flawed major-party candidates and offer voters a rational alternative , tells the New York Times that doctors found a dead worm in his brain . <p> Meanwhile , in a spectacular , much-anticipated natural phenomenon , trillions of cicadas emerge from the ground , watch 15 minutes of cable TV news , and elect to die . <p> As the month draws to a close , Trump is found guilty on all 34 felony counts of whatever it is that he was charged with . The convictions deal a fatal blow to his candidacy . <p> Ha ha ! We are of course joking . The convictions , like all the other legal actions against Trump , are a massive boost for his candidacy , energizing his supporters and generating tens of millions of dollars in donations , an outcome that could have been predicted by anybody with a rudimentary understanding of Trump 's appeal , although it apparently did not occur to the geniuses behind this particular legal strategy . 
@@119404736 <p> DEIR AL BALAH , Gaza Strip -- Israel 's army detained the director of one of northern Gaza 's last functioning hospitals as overnight strikes elsewhere in the territory killed nine people , Palestinian medical officials said Saturday . Israel 's military claimed Hamas militants were using the facility and said more than 240 people were detained . <p> Gaza 's Health Ministry said Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya , director of Kamal Adwan Hospital , was arrested Friday along with dozens of other staff and taken to an interrogation center . The ministry said Israeli troops stormed the hospital and forced many staff and patients outside and told them to strip in winter weather , according to the ministry . <p> On Saturday , Israel 's military confirmed it detained the hospital director for questioning and called him a suspected Hamas operative while providing no evidence . It said it encircled the hospital and special forces entered and found weapons in the area . It said militants fired on its forces and they were " eliminated . " An Israeli military spokesman , Lt. Col. Nadav Shoshani , later asserted to journalists that most of those detained are Hamas operatives . <p> On Friday , the military denied it had entered or set fire to the hospital complex but acknowledged it had ordered people outside . The military repeated claims that Hamas militants operate inside Kamal Adwan , which hospital officials have denied . <p> The hospital has been hit multiple times over the past three months by Israeli troops waging an offensive in largely isolated northern Gaza against Hamas fighters it says have regrouped . The health ministry said a strike on the hospital last week killed five medical personnel . <p> MedGlobal , the humanitarian organization for which Abu Safiya worked , said Friday that it was gravely concerned about him . It said the incident follows the October detention of five other staff members , calling it an " alarming and egregious pattern of targeting medical personnel and spaces . " <p> Israel 's nearly 15-month-old campaign of bombardment and ground offensives has devastated Gaza 's health sector . The World Health Organization has said the raid on Kamal Adwan has put northern Gaza 's last major health facility " out of service " after growing restrictions on access , adding that " this horror must end and health care must be protected . " <p> The Health Ministry said conditions for Kamal Adwan patients who were relocated to the damaged Indonesian Hospital nearby -- also raided in the past -- were " extremely difficult . " <p> An Israeli military statement Saturday said 350 patients along with medical personnel had been evacuated from Kamal Adwan in recent weeks , and another 95 patients , caregivers and medical personnel were evacuated to the Indonesian Hospital during the operation . It also said it had provided fuel and medical supplies to both hospitals . <p> The war has killed more than 45,400 Palestinians , over half of them women and children , and wounded more than 108,000 others , according to the Health Ministry . Its count does not distinguish between civilians and combatants . <p> Since October , Israel 's offensive has virtually sealed off the northern Gaza areas of Jabaliya , Beit Hanoun and Beit Lahiya and leveled large parts of them . Tens of thousands of Palestinians were forced out but thousands are believed to remain in the area where Kamal Adwan and two other hospitals are located . <p> Israel has vowed to destroy Hamas after the militants ' Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack on southern Israel in which they killed around 1,200 people and abducted about 250 others . About 100 Israelis remain captive in Gaza , and around a third are believed to be dead . <p> Israel continued attacks across Gaza on Saturday . An overnight strike killed at least nine people in Maghazi , including women and children , according to staff at Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital , where they were taken and an Associated Press reporter who saw the bodies . <p> Men cried as the bodies , wrapped in bloodied white plastic , lay on the floor of the morgue . <p> The Health Ministry said Saturday that 48 people had been killed in the past 24 hours by Israeli fire . <p> Meanwhile , Israel said its troops had begun operating in the northern city of Beit Hanoun , citing intelligence that fighters and Hamas infrastructure were in the area . <p> Strikes also continued in Israel . Air raid sirens sounded early Saturday and the military said it intercepted a missile fired by Yemen 's Iran-backed Houthi rebels . <p> Israeli warplanes bombed key infrastructure in Yemen again Thursday . The Houthis also have been attacking shipping in the Red Sea and say they wo n't stop until Israel agrees to a ceasefire in Gaza . <p> A demonstrator takes part in a performance during a protest against Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's government and call for the release of hostages held in the Gaza Strip by the Hamas militant group , in Tel Aviv , Israel , Saturday , Dec. 28 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Ariel Schalit ) <p> Israelis protest against Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's government and call for the release of hostages held in the Gaza Strip by the Hamas militant group , in Tel Aviv , Israel , Saturday , Dec. 28 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Ariel Schalit ) 
@@119406837 <p> A former president was convicted of 34 felonies . The current one stumbled badly in a high-stakes debate , and announced he would not seek a second term . Mexico elected its first female president . And a daughter of Oakland joined the race to try to become America 's first . <p> She had not planned to run until 2028 . But when Joe Biden announced on July 21 that he would become the first president since Lyndon Johnson in 1968 not to seek re-election , endorsing Vice President Kamala Harris , the Democratic Party rallied around her . <p> Harris , a former San Francisco prosecutor , California attorney general and U.S. senator , would have been only the second president born in California , after Richard Nixon . She had 107 days to organize a campaign and barnstorm the country . She beat the Republican nominee , Donald Trump , in their only debate . She raised more than $1 billion . <p> But she came up short . Voters still stinging over inflation that swept the world after the Covid pandemic , unhappy about illegal immigration and estranged from a party that many said was out of touch with working class concerns , chose Trump . He won all seven swing states . Republicans took back the Senate and kept a slim majority in the House . <p> Where does Harris , 60 , go next ? She could seek the presidency again in 2028 . Or she may announce a run next year for California governor in 2026 . That would likely clear the Democratic field , and make her the odds-on favorite to succeed Gov . Gavin Newsom . <p> Fans attend a public celebration of life for former San Francisco Giants player Willie Mays at Oracle Park in San Francisco , Calif. , on Monday , July 8 , 2024 . ( Jane Tyska/Bay Area News Group ) <p> He was the most famous Bay Area athlete in any sport , considered by some historians to be the greatest baseball player ever . The " Say Hey Kid " came out of the segregated South , joined the Negro Leagues , and played in the majors from 1951 to 1973 , nearly all with the Giants . <p> Mays ' legendary playing style -- from his cannon arm to the way he raced around the bases so fast that his helmet flew off -- marked a career with 660 home runs and 24 all-star appearances . No one was surprised when the Giants built a statue of him in front of their waterfront ballpark in 2000 , and coronated the address " 24 Willie Mays Plaza . " <p> " Mays is the only man in baseball I 'd pay to see play , " fellow Hall-of-Famer Ty Cobb once said . <p> A fixture at Giants games for years , a mentor to hundreds of players and beloved by fans , Mays died June 18 at age 93 in Palo Alto . Ten days later , another Giants Hall-of-Famer , Orlando Cepeda , died at age 86 . <p> The Giants have struggled since winning the World Series in 2014 , winning the National League West only once . On Sept. 30 , after firing president of baseball operations Farhan Zaidi , they named former MVP catcher Buster Posey to the job . Opening Day is April 4 . <p> Bay Area voters are known for being tolerant . This year they hit their limit . Fed up with car break-ins , retail theft , attacks on elderly residents , drug dealing and squalid homeless encampments , San Franciscans dumped Mayor London Breed and replaced her with fellow Democrat Daniel Lurie , heir to the Levi Strauss fortune . Not to be outdone , East Bay voters recalled Oakland Mayor Sheng Thao and Alameda County District Attorney Pamela Price by landslide margins . <p> The Federal Correctional Institution , Dublin had been famous for housing inmates like Patty Hearst , " Hollywood Madam " Heidi Fleiss and actress Felicity Huffman , who was convicted in the Varsity Blues bribery scandal . <p> The Alameda County prison became infamous , however , after the Associated Press , 60 Minutes and others documented rampant sexual abuse of inmates by prison guards and staff . <p> Since 2021 , at least eight FCI Dublin employees have been charged , including former warden Ray Garcia , who was sentenced last year to nearly 6 years in prison . <p> This month , the Federal Bureau of Prisons announced it was permanently closing FCI Dublin , and agreed to pay $116 million to 103 women who filed a class-action lawsuit . " We were sentenced to prison . We were not sentenced to be assaulted and abused , " said former Dublin prisoner Aimee Chavira . <p> Oakland Athletics ' Jacob Wilson ( 5 ) and his teammates acknowledge fans after the A 's played the last home game at the Coliseum in Oakland , Calif. , on Thursday , Sept. 26 , 2024 . The Oakland Athletics won 3-2 against the Texas Rangers . The A 's will move to Sacramento next season . ( Ray Chavez/Bay Area News Group ) <p> On Sept. 26 , the Oakland Athletics played their last home game , ending a 57-year run . They beat the Texas Rangers 3-2 in front of a sell-out crowd at the Oakland Coliseum . <p> With the loss of the Warriors to San Francisco in 2019 and the Raiders to Las Vegas in 2020 , the A 's were the last major pro sports team left in Oakland . The city lost part of its identity and a gathering site for generations of families . " I started crying after the final moment , " said A 's fan Jesus Ventura . " I felt a deep , deep sadness . " <p> After moving to Oakland from Kansas City in 1968 , the A 's won four World Series in 1972 , 1973 , 1974 and 1989 . Fans cheered as Reggie Jackson blasted home runs , Rickey Henderson stole bases , and greats like Vida Blue , Catfish Hunter and Dennis Eckersley struck out opposing hitters . <p> But as the Oakland Coliseum aged , the A 's failed to build a new facility in San Jose , Fremont or Oakland . Billionaire owner John Fisher , heir to the Gap fortune , announced plans last year to move the team to Las Vegas . Enraged fans launched a " sell the team ! " campaign . But Major League owners gave him the OK . <p> On Dec. 5 , Las Vegas officials greenlit plans for a $1.75 billion domed stadium , with $380 million in public funds , scheduled to open in 2028 . Until then , the A 's will play at Sutter Health Park , a minor league field in West Sacramento . Adding to the heartache of A 's fans , the team 's Hall of Fame hometown hero Rickey Henderson , who holds the record for most stolen bases , died just days before what would have been his 66th birthday on Christmas Day . <p> It 's a common cliche : " Every vote counts . " A Silicon Valley congressional race this year proved it true . <p> After congresswoman Anna Eshoo announced she was retiring from the 16th Congressional District , 11 candidates ran to succeed her , including former San Jose Mayor Sam Liccardo , Assemblyman Evan Low and Santa Clara County Supervisor Joe Simitian . <p> After the March 5 primary , an amazing thing happened . Liccardo led , but fellow Democrats Low and Simitian , fighting for the other spot on the general election ballot , were tied following weeks of counting . Each had 30,249 votes . After a recount , Low won by 5 votes . <p> In November , the more moderate Liccardo beat Low easily , 58%-42% , to represent the district , which stretches from Pacifica to San Jose . He will be sworn in Jan. 3 . <p> SAN JOSE , CALIFORNIA -- DECEMBER 9 : One of two riders on a BART train that arrived just before 4:30 p.m. exits the train at the Berryessa BART station in San Jose , Calif. , on Wednesday , Dec. 9 , 2020 . ( Nhat V. Meyer/Bay Area News Group ) <p> 7 ) Transit funding woes worsen <p> Most vestiges of the Covid pandemic are gone . But it is still decimating public transit . <p> Because so many people continue to work from home , BART , the Bay Area 's largest public transit system , has seen ridership collapse from roughly 400,000 a day to fewer than 200,000 most days now . The agency , which operates 50 stations in five counties , raised fares by 5% . It still faces a $35 million deficit in 2026 and a staggering $385 million shortfall in 2027 . <p> Federal Covid money is running out , and the new Trump administration is n't likely to give California a bailout . <p> Critics say BART needs to cut bloated union benefits and staffing , and continue to reduce crime on its trains . Other Bay Area transit agencies also face shortfalls , and warn that if they cut service , traffic will increase for everyone on freeways . <p> The agencies have tried to draft a tax increase for the 2026 ballot , but so far have n't been able to agree . The question for 2025 may not be whether there will be cuts on hours and routes -- but how big will they be ? <p> San Francisco 49ers ' Deebo Samuel ( 19 ) walks off the field as confetti falls all around him after being defeated by the Kansas City Chiefs in the Super Bowl at Allegiant Stadium in Las Vegas , Nev. , on Sunday , Feb. 11 , 2024 . The Kansas City Chiefs defeated the San Francisco 49ers 25-22 . ( Jose Carlos Fajardo/Bay Area News Group ) <p> They had so much promise . With offensive stars like George Kittle , Brandon Aiyuk , Christian McCaffrey and quarterback Brock Purdy , a stacked defense and a 12-5 record , the 49ers rolled into Las Vegas on Feb. 11 looking to dethrone the defending champion Kansas City Chiefs . <p> But in the most-watched TV show in history , with 123 million viewers , the Niners ' first Super Bowl victory since 1995 was n't to be . They led 19-16 with 1:53 left in the game . But future Hall-of-Fame quarterback Patrick Mahomes drove the Chiefs down the field , resulting in a game-tying field goal with 3 seconds left . In overtime , he broke 49ers ' fans hearts , covering 75 yards in 13 plays for the winning touchdown . <p> The 49ers fired their defensive coordinator after the game . Relentless injuries this season to stars like Aiyuk , McCaffrey , Nick Bosa and Trent Williams caused them to miss the playoffs entirely . In 2025 they are expected to sign Purdy to a long-term deal . And although there are lots of question marks , they are lucky the NFC West is considered a relatively easy division . Hope springs eternal . <p> San Mateo County Sheriff Christina Corpus enters the meeting followed by Undersheriff Dan Perea at the San Mateo County Board of Supervisors special meeting in Redwood City , Calif. , on Wednesday , Nov. 13 , 2024 . The County Supervisors were considering seeking Sheriff Christina Corpus 's resignation . ( Nhat V. Meyer/Bay Area News Group ) <p> San Mateo County Sheriff Christina Corpus got a lot of attention in 2024 . But it was n't for arresting criminals . On Dec. 4 , the San Mateo County Board of Supervisors voted to place a measure on the March ballot that would allow them to remove a sheriff for " flagrant or repeated neglect of duties , misappropriation of public funds , willful falsification of documents , or obstructing an investigation . " <p> The unanimous vote came after the board hired retired Superior Court Judge LaDoris Cordell to investigate allegations of wrongdoing . She concluded that Corpus hired her boyfriend to be chief of staff , gave him improper authority , used racial and homophobic slurs and bullied employees . Corpus denies the allegations . <p> In November , she ordered the arrest of Carlos Tapia , a critic who serves as president of the San Mateo County Deputy Sheriff 's Association , for time card fraud . But on Dec. 16 , San Mateo County District Attorney Stephen M. Wagstaffe said no crime was committed and he wo n't file charges . <p> Will San Mateo County 's first female sheriff get the boot ? Voters will have the final say in three months . <p> Pro-Palestinian demonstrators listen to a speaker as they protest at Stanford University urging the university to divest from Israel and demanding a permanent cease-fire in the war in Gaza , on Thursday , April 25 , 2024 , at Stanford University . ( Dai Sugano/Bay Area News Group ) <p> 10 ) Gaza protests roil universities <p> College campuses across California were the site of raucous demonstrations following the Oct. 7 , 2023 , terrorist attack by Hamas against Israel , sparking a massive counterattack by Israeli forces in Gaza that has killed more than 40,000 people . <p> Hundreds of students and other protesters were arrested at Cal , Stanford , UC Santa Cruz and other campuses after refusing to leave pro-Palestinian encampments and occupying buildings . Some Jewish students said they were harassed and threatened . <p> In August , UC system President Michael Drake banned encampments and said students would face discipline if they blocked others or wore masks as intimidation . Cal State followed suit . This fall , protests were muted . <p> Biden has dispatched negotiators to the Middle East to try and broker a cease-fire . On Dec. 16 , Trump announced that he had a " very good talk " with Israel 's prime minister , Benjamin Netanyahu , and warned " all hell is going to break out " if Hamas does not release the remaining hostages by Jan. 20 , the day Trump takes office . 
@@119412831 <h> During the rally , participants chanted slogans critical of Israel and the US , accusing both countries of enabling the humanitarian crisis in Gaza . <p> Supporters of religious and political party Jamaat-e-Islami ( JI ) carry flags and signs in support of Palestinian people to condemn the diplomatic agreement between the United Arab Emirates ( UAE ) and Israel , during a protest in Karachi , Pakistan August 16 , 2020 ( photo credit : Akhtar Soomro/Reuters ) <p> Islamabad Thousands of supporters of Pakistan 's Jamaat-e-Islami party gathered in Islamabad on Sunday to protest against Israel and express solidarity with Palestinians . <p> The " Gaza Million March , " held at F-9 Park , was led by Jamaat-e-Islami chief Hafiz Naeem Ur Rehman , who condemned Israeli actions in Gaza and called for immediate international intervention to end the violence . <p> During the rally , participants chanted slogans critical of Israel and the US , accusing both countries of enabling the humanitarian crisis in Gaza . <p> Rehman described the dire conditions in the besieged territory , stating , " The situation has deteriorated to unprecedented levels , with extreme poverty gripping the region . Thousands of children , women , and the elderly are suffering , many losing their lives amid harsh conditions and severe cold . " <h> Accusations against the US <p> Rehman also accused the US of supporting Israel through military aid and political backing , which he claimed has contributed to the significant civilian toll in Gaza . He further criticized global silence on the issue , asserting , " Except for a few countries , no one is raising their voice against the atrocities in Palestine . " People carry flags as they chant slogans to express solidarity with Palestinian people and to protest against Israel , during a rally in Karachi , Pakistan May 21 , 2021 ( credit : Akhtar Soomro/Reuters ) <p> Rehman called for unity among Muslim nations to counter what he described as Israeli oppression and urged the international community to take immediate action to halt the violence . <p> The rally concluded with prayers for Gaza 's victims and a pledge from Jamaat-e-Islami to continue advocating for Palestinian rights . The party 's charitable arm , Al-Khidmat Foundation , has reportedly provided $543 million in aid to Palestinians affected by the Israel-Hamas conflict , with ongoing efforts to assist those in need . 
@@119412832 <p> The Israel Air Force struck terrorists from Hamas ' Aerial Defense Unit in a command and control center embedded in what had previously been the Al Wafa Hospital in the Shejaia area of Gaza City on Sunday , the military stated . <p> " The building does not currently serve as a hospital , " the IDF emphasized . <p> The strike , which was based on intelligence provided by the Military Intelligence Directorate and the Shin Bet ( Israel Security Agency ) , was conducted using precise munitions to reduce risk to civilians in the area , the IDF added . <p> The military also said it took additional precautions , including the use of aerial surveillance and other intelligence , in order to minimize potential civilian harm . <p> " The command and control center was used by the terrorists to plan and execute terrorist attacks against IDF troops in the immediate future , " the IDF said , adding that Hamas 's tactic of embedding military infrastructure in what had been a hospital was " a further example of the Hamas terrorist organization 's systematic abuse of civilian infrastructure and the Gaza population in violation of international law . " Aftermath of an Israeli strike on Al-Wafaa hospital in Gaza City , December 29 , 2024 ( credit : REUTERS/DAWOUD ABU ALKAS ) 
@@119438823 <h> PHOTOS : Former President Jimmy Carter dies at the age of 100 <h> Share this : <p> Jimmy Carter served as the 39th President of the United States from 1977 to 1981 . He was awarded the 2002 Nobel Peace Prize for work to find peaceful solutions to international conflicts , to advance democracy and human rights , and to promote economic and social development . <p> President Jimmy Carter acknowledges the applause of about 1,100 people gathered in the Elk City High School gym for a town meeting in Elk City , Okla. , March 24 , 1979 . ( AP Photo , File ) <p> stf , The Associated Press <p> President Jimmy Carter raises a clenched fist during his address to the Democratic Convention , Aug. 15 , 1980 , in New York 's Madison Square Garden where he accepted his party 's nomination to face Republican Ronald Reagan in the general election . <p> Former President Jimmy Carter poses for a portrait during the Toronto International Film Festival , Sept. 10 , 2007 , in Toronto . ( AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster , File ) <p> In this Feb. 20 , 1978 , file photo , President Jimmy Carter listens to Sen. Joseph R. Biden , D-Del. , as they wait to speak at fund raising reception at Padua Academy in Wilmington , Del . President Joe Biden says he plans to deliver the eulogy at the funeral of former President Jimmy Carter , who remains under hospice care at his home in south Georgia . ( AP Photo/Barry Thumma , File ) <p> For the first time in history , five US presidents gathered in one place . George HW Bush , Ronald Reagan , Jimmy Carter , Gerald Ford and Richard Nixon appear in the courtyard of the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in Simi Valley Calif. , November 04 1991 . ( Photo by Tom Mendoza/Daily News Staff Photographer ) <p> The Associated Press <p> Governor-elect Jimmy Carter walks about the grounds of the governor 's mansion in Atlanta on Sunday , Jan. 11 , 1971 , after he moved into the mansion , background . In his arms is his 3-year-old daughter Amy . Carter will be sworn in as governor of Georgia next Tuesday . <p> Jimmy Carter , the Democratic front runner for the presidential nomination , in a pond as he and friends drain a pond and catch fish for a fish fry the next day in Plains , Ga. , June 25 , 1976 . Carter , who rose from Georgia farmland to become the 39th president of the United States on a promise of national healing after the wounds of Watergate and Vietnam , then lost the White House in a cauldron of economic turmoil at home and crisis in Iran , died on Sunday , Dec. 29 , 2024 , at his home in Plains , Ga . He was 100 . ( George Tames/The New York Times ) <p> President Jimmy Carter and wife , Rosalyn , take the stage during the first day of the Democratic National Convention on Monday , August 25 , 2008 in Denver , Colo . ( Joe Amon / The Denver Post ) <p> President Jimmy Carter and wife , Rosalyn , take the stage at the Pepsi Center on the first day of the Democratic National Convention on Monday , August 25 , 2008 in Denver , Colo . ( RJ Sangosti / The Denver Post ) <p> Harvey Georges , The Associated Press <p> Democratic presidential candidate Jimmy Carter speaks to a rally at the home of Maryland Secretary of State Fred Pineland in Oxon Hill , May 14 , 1976 . Earlier , he held his first meeting with AFL-CIO president George Meany in nearby Washington . <p> Former President Jimmy Carter reacts as his wife Rosalynn Carter speaks during a reception to celebrate their 75th wedding anniversary , July 10 , 2021 , in Plains , Ga . The Carter Center said Saturday , Feb. 18 , 2023 , that former President Jimmy Carter has entered home hospice care . The charity created by the 98-year-old former president said on Twitter that after a series of short hospital stays , Carter " decided to spend his remaining time at home with his family and receive hospice care instead of additional medical intervention . " ( AP Photo/John Bazemore , Pool , File ) <p> Former President Jimmy Carter makes graceful roll cast as he fishes for native rainbow trout on Turniptown Creek which runs by his mountain cabin near Ellijay , Ga. , May 23 , 1988 . ( Joe Holloway , Jr. , The Associated Press ) <p> President Jimmy Carter is interviewed in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington , Jan. 24 , 1977 . ( AP Photo , File ) <p> In this Dec. 13 , 1978 , file photo , President Jimmy Carter and his wife Rosalynn lead their guests in dancing at the annual Congressional Christmas Ball at the White House in Washington . Jimmy and Rosalynn are celebrating their 77th wedding anniversary , Friday , July 7 , 2023 . Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter have been best friends and life mates for nearly 80 years . Now with the former first lady 's death at age 96 , the former president must adjust to life without the woman who he credits as his equal partner in everything he accomplished in politics and as a global humanitarian after their White House years . ( AP Photo/Ira Schwarz , File ) <p> AP Photo <p> Jordan King Hussein , center , flanked by President Jimmy Carter and Mrs. Rosalynn Carter , stands at attention during the playing of national anthems during welcoming ceremonies at the White House in Washington Monday , April 25 , 1977 . Hussein is in Washington for a three-day official visit . <p> Former President Jimmy Carter teaches a Sunday school class at Maranatha Baptist Church in Plains , Ga. , his hometown , last Sunday . ( David Goldman , The Associated Press ) <p> Charles Tasnadi , The Associated Press <p> President Jimmy Carter speaks from the Oval Office of the White House in Washington , Oct. 24 , 1978 . He unveiled a largely voluntary new set of wage and price guidelines saying " we must face a time of national austerity . " <p> The Associated Press <p> President Jimmy Carter , right , talks with Pope John Paul II at the White House in Washington in this Oct. 6 , 1979 file photo . Carter hosted the first White House by a pope . Pope John Paul II was greeted at Andrews Air Force Base outside Washington by Vice President Walter Mondale . His stay at the White House featured 10,000 guests split between separate arrival and departure ceremonies on the North and South Lawns . <p> In this Feb. 8 , 2017 , file photo former President Jimmy Carter , right , and his wife Rosalynn arrive for a ribbon cutting ceremony for a solar panel project on farmland he owns in their hometown of Plains , Ga Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter have been best friends and life mates for nearly 80 years . Now with the former first lady 's death at age 96 , the former president must adjust to life without the woman who he credits as his equal partner in everything he accomplished in politics and as a global humanitarian after their White House years . ( AP Photo/David Goldman , File ) <p> Mark Wilson , The Associated Press <p> President Jimmy Carter shakes hands with Carol Channing after he and his family attended a performance of the musical " Hello Dolly " starring Miss Channing which is playing at the National Theater in Washington , Oct. 19 , 1978 . Also in the photo are , from left : first lady Rosalynn Carter , daughter Amy Carter , President Carter , Allie Smith , mother of Rosalynn Carter , and Miss Channing . ( AP Photo/Mark Wilson ) <p> The Associated Press <p> Jimmy Carter watches the television screen while his daughter-in-law , Judy , keeps an eye on her son , Jason in the Carter hotel room on in New York , July 14 , 1976 . <p> Democratic presidential front-runner Jimmy Carter and his 8-year-old daughter Amy have a moment alone , though they are in the midst of about 30 visitors to Amy 's drink stand outside the Carter home , June 12 , 1976 , in Plains , Ga . ( AP Photo/Joe Holloway Jr. , File ) <p> Former President Jimmy Carter was flying to Cleveland to promote his new book when he became ill . <p> Former president Jimmy Carter wears an Obama hat while volunteering in Bicentennial Park in Aurora on August 27 , 2008 . <p> Jimmy Carter recently said , " This is the most polarized country and the most partisan divide that we have ever seen . " <p> Charles Tasnadi , The Associated Press <p> President Jimmy Carter is interviewed by four television reporters on Wednesday , Dec. 28 , 1977 in the Red Room of the White House at Washington . From left are : Bob McNeil , PBS ; Bob Schieffer , CBS ; Carter ; Barbara Walters , ABC ; and Tom Brokaw , NBA . ( AP Photo/Charles Tasnadi ) <p> FILE -- Former President Jimmy Carter in New York , Oct. 8 , 2007 . Carter , who at 98 is the longest living president in American history , has decided to forgo any further medical treatment and will enter hospice at his home in Georgia , the Carter Center announced on Saturday. , Feb. 18 , 2023 ( Damon Winter/The New York Times ) <p> In this handout image provided by the Elders , Jimmy Carter walks with his grandsons Jeremy Carter ( R ) , 22 , and Hugo Wentzel , 10 during a picnic event on October 31 , 2009 in Istanbul , Turkey . Jimmy Carter , Desmond Tutu and their fellow Elders invited their grandchildren to join them this week to remind the world of the catastrophic risk of climate change to future generations . The seven Elders and their thirteen grandchildren from Asia , Africa , Europe and America met in Istanbul with the group ranging in age from 3 to 85 . ( Photo by Kate Brooks/The Elders via Getty Images ) <p> President Jimmy Carter and his younger brother Billy take a walk through the woods around their mother 's pond house near Plains , Ga. , June 1 , 1977 . The president paid a brief visit to his home town Tuesday . ( AP Photo/Barry Thumma ) <p> US President Jimmy Carter ( C ) congratulates Egyptian President Anwar al-Sadat ( L ) and Israeli Premier Menachem Begin ( R ) in Athree-way handshake after signing on the north lawn of the White House the historic US-sponsored peace treaty between Israel and Egypt on March 26 , 1979 . Egypt will not officially commemorate on March 25 , 2009 the thirtieth anniversary of the 1979 signing of the first Arab-Israeli peace treaty which changed forever the strategic balance of the Middle East . Israel 's assault on Gaza in December-January , in which 1,300 Palestinians died , and the election choice of right-wing leader Benjamin Netanyahu to be the next prime minister mean that Cairo is not in the mood for celebrations . ( Photo credit should read -/AFP/Getty Images ) <p> Jimmy Carter is surrounded by Reporters at the Airport . He said President Ford showed " lack of leadership " in Earl Butz controversy . Denver Post file photo <p> Carter greets supporters on his way from noon-hour rally in downtown to speak at Denver Hilton Hotel . Hundreds of persons lined one-block path which Carter took . Denver Post file photo <p> President Carters is encircled as he discusses proposals on assistance Gov . Lamm , wearing glasses to right of Carter , and other government and environmental leaders pay rapt attention . Denver Post file photo <p> President Jimmy Carter at his desk in the Oval Office , talking to his new Chief of Staff Hamilton Jordan , White House , Washington D C , July 19th 1979 . ( Photo by Keystone/Hulton Archive/Getty Images ) <p> Democratic presidential candidate Jimmy Carter embraces his wife Rosalynn after receiving the final news of his victory in the national general election , November 2 , 1976 . ( Photo by Hulton Archive/Getty Images ) <p> American politician Jimmy Carter looks up while shoveling peanuts on a peanut farm , 1970s . ( Photo by Hulton Archive/Getty Images ) <p> President Jimmy Carter waves from the roof of his car along the parade route through Bardstown , Ky. , July 31 , 1979 . Well-wishes and fond remembrances for the former president continued to roll in Sunday , Feb. 19 , 2023 , a day after he entered hospice care at his home in Georgia . ( AP Photo/Bob Daugherty , File ) <p> Former President Jimmy Carter smiles as he is awarded the Order of Manuel Amador Guerrero by Panamanian President Juan Carlos Varela during a ceremony at the Carter Center , Jan. 14 , 2016 , in Atlanta . Well-wishes and fond remembrances for the former president continued to roll in Sunday , Feb. 19 , 2023 , a day after he entered hospice care at his home in Georgia . ( AP Photo/John Bazemore , File ) <p> Democratic presidential candidate Jimmy Carter leads the way as party deplanes at Stapleton His three-hour visit to Denver Monday came during a stopover on his way to San Francisco . Denver Post file photo <p> Former President , Jimmy Carter waves as he enters the stage area just before the Presidential Inauguration of Barack Obama at the U.S. Capitol Tuesday afternoon . THE DENVER POST/ ANDY CROSS <p> Former President of the United States Jimmy Carter gives a fist pump after throwing the ceremonial first pitch before the start of the San Francisco Giants and San Diego Padres game on Opening Day at Petco Park on April 8 , 2004 in San Diego , California . ( Photo by Donald Miralle/Getty Images ) <p> Former President Jimmy Carter watches a baseball game between the Atlanta Braves and the Toronto Blue Jays on Sept. 17 in Atlanta . ( John Bazemore , The Associated Press ) <p> Former president Jimmy Carter and wife Rosyln arrive at the inauguration of Barack Obama as the 44th President of the United States of America on the West Front of the Capitol January 20 , 2009 in Washington , DC . Obama becomes the first African-American to be elected to the office of President in the history of the United States . ( Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images ) <p> Egyptian Vice President Hosni Mubarak meets with President Jimmy Carter in the Rose Garden of the White House in Washington . Egypt 's vice president says Mubarak resigned on Friday , Feb. 11 , 2011 as president and handed control to the military . ( AP Photo/Charles Tasnadi , File ) <p> Former U.S. President Jimmy Carter promotes his book " Full Life : Reflections at Ninety " at Barnes &amp; Noble , 5th Avenue on July 7 , 2015 in New York City . Carter was 39th President of the United States from 1977 to 1981 and was awarded the 2002 Nobel Peace Prize . ( Photo by D Dipasupil/Getty Images ) <p> Former U.S. President Jimmy Carter ( R ) speaks while campaigning for Georgia Democratic gubernatorial candidate and State Sen. Jason Carter ( 2nd L ) as his wife Kate Carter ( L ) and grandmother former first lady Rosalynn Carter look on at Emmanuel Christian Community Church on October 27 , 2014 in Columbus , Georgia . Jason Carter is running against the Republican incumbent Georgia Republican Gov . Nathan Deal . ( Photo by Jessica McGowan/Getty Images ) <p> US President Barack Obama , First Lady Michelle Obama and former US Presidents Bill Clinton and Jimmy Carter wave during the Let Freedom Ring Commemoration and Call to Action to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom at the Lincoln Memorial in Washington , DC on August 28 , 2013 . Thousands will gather on the mall on the anniversary of the march and Dr. Martin Luther King , Jr . ' s famous " I Have a Dream " speech . ( Photo SAUL LOEB/AFP/Getty Images ) <p> Former US president Jimmy Carter listens to a question during a press conference in the capital Cairo on January 13 , 2012 . The Carter Center is one of the few monitoring groups to have had a license to witness Egypt 's first post-revolution election , in which the country 's two main Islamist parties have scored a crushing victory . ( Photo AMRO MARAGHI/AFP/Getty Images ) <p> Former U.S. President Jimmy Carter works on the 1,000th home to be built by Habitat for Humanity on the Gulf Coast May 21 , 2007 in Violet , Louisiana . Carter made waves May 19 when he said that the Bush administration " has been the worst in history " , in an interview published in the Arkansas Democrat-Gazette . ( Photo by Chris Graythen/Getty Images ) <p> Former U.S. President Jimmy Carter and his wife Rosalyn attach siding to the front of a Habitat for Humanity home being built June 10 , 2003 in LaGrange , Georgia . More than 90 homes are being built in LaGrange ; Valdosta , Georgia ; and Anniston , Alabama by volunteers as part of Habitat for Humanity International 's Jimmy Carter Work Project 2003 . ( Photo by Erik S. Lesser/Getty Images ) <p> Former US President Jimmy Carter delivers the last speech at the first session of the 1988 Democratic National Convention 18 July 1988 in Atlanta . Carter on Friday 11 October 2002 won the 2002 Nobel Peace Prize for years of tireless effort as an international mediator . Carter , 78 , was honored for " his decades of untiring effort to fin peaceful solutions to international conflicts , to advance democracy and human rights , and to promote economic and social development " , the Norwegian Nobel Committee said . ( Photo BOB PEARSON/AFP/Getty Images ) <p> Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat ( R ) and former US President Jimmy Carter ( L ) , who came to Gaza as an international election observer , give a press conference 21 January 1996 in Gaza City . Carter , 78 , on Friday 11 October 2002 won the 2002 Nobel Peace Prize for years of tireless effort as an international mediator . Carter , 78 , was honored for " his decades of untiring effort to fin peaceful solutions to international conflicts , to advance democracy and human rights , and to promote economic and social development " , the Norwegian Nobel Committee said . ( Photo RABIH MOGHRABI/AFP/Getty Images ) <p> US President George W. Bush ( R ) welcomes Former US President Jimmy Carter , winner of the 2002 Nobel Peace Prize to the Oval Office 18 November , 2002 the White House in Washington , DC . Carter , this year 's Nobel Peace Prize winner , called 15 November for disarmament by the US , which has taken the lead in urging countries such as North Korea to destroy their weapons of mass destruction and threatened to disarm Iraq by force if it does not do so voluntarily . ( Photo TIM SLOAN/AFP/Getty Images ) <p> Democrat Jimmy Carter is sworn in by chief justice Earl Burger as the 39th president of the United States while first lady Rosalynn looks on , Washington DC , January 20 , 1977 . ( Photo by Hulton Archive/Getty Images ) <p> Democratic candidate for the US Presidency Jimmy Carter during the Democratic National Convention in New York City . ( Photo AFP/AFP/Getty Images ) <p> 1 of 63 <p> Jimmy Carter served as the 39th President of the United States from 1977 to 1981 . He was awarded the 2002 Nobel Peace Prize for work to find peaceful solutions to international conflicts , to advance democracy and human rights , and to promote economic and social development . 
@@119439032 <p> In a time of viral sensations , the influence of photojournalism can go beyond newsworthiness , as images are propelled into an online world where stories are shaped in an instant . Think of the first image you saw of Thailand 's famous pygmy hippo Moo Deng , which spread across social media in September so rapidly you almost could n't keep up ; it created a global star and drove new levels of tourism to the Khao Kheow Open Zoo . Or think of the image from the day of President Donald Trump 's attempted assassination in July , the one with his fist raised in the air in defiance . In the weeks following , it adorned t-shirts and posters , becoming a symbolic image to many who support him . <p> When TIME 's photo department got together to create our annual list of the year 's top 10 photos , we first had to tackle the definition of an influential photo . Because those images gained so much notoriety over the course of the year , did that mean we were obligated to place them on this list ? ( We did not . ) Should an image receive recognition for the sheer fact that it was shared across the world and started a conversation ? Or should it be chosen solely for the fact that it was beautifully framed and composed ? Is viralness synonymous with impact ? <p> The truth is that all these definitions can be true . In order to fully capture the essence of 2024 , and to honor the power of photography , we needed to consider multiple categories and forms of importance . The ten photos below are the result of many conversations in which we weighed the images from this year that made us feel the most -- and question the most . These are the images we always came back to . <p> Warning : Some of the following images are graphic in nature and might be disturbing to some viewers . <p> Lava crosses the main road to Grindavik and flows on the road leading to the Blue Lagoon , in Grindavik , Iceland , on Feb. 8 . Marco Di Marco -- AP <h> ' Two Powerful Forces of Nature ' <p> After eight centuries of silence , a volcano in southwestern Iceland began erupting again in December 2023 . Following its third recent eruption , in February of this year , photographer Marco Di Marco captured this image of lava after it crossed the main road to Grindavik , heading toward the area of the popular Blue Lagoon spa . <p> Di Marco was keeping a safe distance in the Blue Lagoon parking lot when he took this photo by drone . Knowing that he might have to move to an even safer spot soon , he still attempted to create the most effective image . " I wanted to get a closer view of the lava-flow front , trying to frame all the elements that can describe the situation : the molten lava , the road , the burning asphalt , and the snow-covered terrain , " he says . <p> The image , while beautiful to look at , still conveys a sense of urgency , as you witness the lava enveloping the road , contrasting with the cold snow underneath it . " I think it resonates because the photo shows an unusual combination of natural elements that most viewers do n't get to see on a daily basis , " explains di Marco . " Both lava and snow frame the road , the only witness of human presence between these two powerful forces of nature . " <h> ' Destruction , Pain and Solidarity ' <p> On the morning of Jan. 23 , Russian troops launched a strike on residential areas of Kharkiv , Ukraine . Photographer Sofiia Gatilova was there when the first explosion hit . " Here we hear explosions before the alarm , because Russian missiles take about 30 seconds to reach the city , " she says . " So I started to gather myself with the first explosion . " It was a scene Gatilova has seen many times before . " Firefighters putting out fires and raking through rubble to get to people , the wounded looking for medics , who are in short supply , volunteers providing medical care and setting up a first aid station , residents of the building looking at their destroyed home , relatives are looking for each other . " <p> When asked about what goes through her mind while photographing an image like this , Gatilova says , " I have n't felt anything for a long time while working . I understand with my brain that what is happening is terrible , but you ca n't let your feelings get the better of you , because in that case it will be impossible to work . " <p> " For me , any photograph that is published is a visualization of the general context of the event and it is very important to put certain meanings in the viewer 's head , " she explains . " The foreground is almost never enough . Medics provide assistance , this is logical , but the context is extremely important . That is why I chose this shooting point : all the consequences of the shelling are visible , from the destroyed house to the destroyed life . This is a reflection of the Ukrainian present -- destruction , pain and solidarity . " <p> Israeli munitions hit southern Lebanon on Sept. 30 , as Israeli ground troops cross the border to attack positions of the Hezbollah militia . Almost a year after the Hamas attack of Oct. 7 ignited a devastating war in the Gaza Strip -- during which Israel and Hezbollah have also traded fire nearly daily -- Israel turned its focus to the Iranian proxy force , sparking fears of a widening war.Leo Correa -- AP <h> ' Keep Documenting the History ' <p> Days before this image was made , Middle East-based AP photographer Leo Correa began hearing rumors signaling the start of an Israeli offensive in Lebanon . Then , on Sept. 30 , Israel began to fire a large sequence of shelling that hit the country 's border with Lebanon . <p> Correa went to the Golan Heights " to have at least a glimpse of what was happening , " he says . " Maybe it would be possible to see the Israel shelling at the Lebanese villages located near the border . " Even from far away , he could see the flashes from explosions and the sounds of artillery . <p> Equipping himself with a longer zoom lens , he created this image using a 30-second exposure . The result shows a burning fire to the right and the trails of light from shelling directed at southern Lebanon . " It was one of these kinds of moments when it does n't matter the distance -- we still need to find ways to keep documenting the history , " says Correa . <p> Tuqa Ossama Ibrahim , 12 , a Palestinian child from northern Gaza who lost her legs to an Israeli airstrike , sits in a wheelchair while other Palestinian children play during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan , at Emirates Humanitarian City in Abu Dhabi , on March 19 . Amr Alfiky -- Reuters <h> ' Some Questions Will Sometimes Remain Unanswered ' <p> In March of this year , around the the holiday of Ramadan , Reuters photographer Amr Alfiky got access to the Emirates Humanitarian City in Abu Dhabi . The city , which takes in people who have evacuated crisis and conflict zones , houses many who were displaced from Gaza in the midst of the Israel-Hamas War . " We saw some familiar faces of Palestinian patients who were receiving treatment in the UAE before moving to the Humanitarian city , " says Alfiky . " They recognized us and welcomed us into their little new world . " <p> " This photo was one of the first frames I captured that day , " he says . " While I was still familiarizing myself with the place and the people around me , I saw Tuqa and two other children coming towards me . " He stood in place and allowed the children to play as he waited for this image to form . " I was astonished by the juxtaposition in that scene : what Tuqa lost , what she could have been doing had n't she lost her legs to the Israel-Hamas War , and how it shaped her relationship with the children around her on roller-skates and bicycles , " he recalls . After he took the image Tuqa approached him , smiling . " One of the things I learned from that assignment and will always stay with me is that some of our most powerful work as photojournalists could sometimes be the simplest . " <p> After some time had passed , Alfiky and a fellow Reuters colleague contacted the Emirates Humanitarian City for a follow-up story . In that conversation they came to learn that some of the Palestinian children they had photographed in their previous visit had passed away . " Now that this photo is resurfacing , I ask myself how many more children I met that day that could possibly be dead as I write this , " he says . " I usually walk into the environments I work in with curiosity and questions that I could try to find answers for visually . But some questions will sometimes remain unanswered . " <p> Migrants from China warm themselves in Campo , Calif. , after crossing the U.S.-Mexico border in a rainstorm on March 6 . The number of Chinese asylum seekers arriving via the southern border has surged since the pandemic.John Moore -- Getty Images <h> ' Learned to be Tenacious ' <p> In March , photographer John Moore was on assignment with Getty Images along the entire length of the US-Mexico border , from the Pacific to the Gulf of Mexico . " Having received a tip from a humanitarian aid worker , one night I drove to a remote spot where a group of migrants had just crossed the border into southern California , " explains Moore . " A group of Chinese migrants wearing donated ponchos huddled in the cold rain while waiting several hours for the U.S. Border Patrol agents to arrive and begin processing them for asylum . Although exhausted , people seemed generally relieved after finally arriving from such a long journey . " <p> With the only light coming from dimly lit campfires , Moore had to rely on high ISO settings and slow shutter speeds to be able to capture any sort of image . This resulted in the soft movement happening of the ponchos , and the glow forming the silhouettes of the mountains beyond . Looking back on what he had captured , he says : " On the back of the camera I scrolled through the take and this frame stood out . The forms within this photograph , including the painterly light and the body language between mother and child , made for a timeless image . " <p> Moore credits the ability to capture an image like this partly on newer technology but also , " I 've learned to be tenacious , " he says . " Having worked in this profession more than three decades , half of it covering immigration along the border , I 've had times where I 've given up on a picture too early and then been disappointed later during the edit . We hope the public will remember our most powerful images but , as photojournalists , which ones will we remember most ? The ones we miss . But not this time . " <p> Former President Donald Trump is shown covered by U.S. Secret Service agents after an assassination attempt during a rally for the Republican presidential candidate in Butler , Pa. , on July 13 . Anna Moneymaker -- Getty Images <h> ' Keep Going , Keep Making Pictures ' <p> On July 13 , photographer Anna Moneymaker was assigned to cover a campaign rally for Donald Trump in Butler , Pa . In an attempt to capture some new angles , she began to move around the podium where Trump stood . " My idea for a picture was n't really working and the Secret Service agents wanted me to move back to the front of the stage , so I started to crawl back -- and that 's when what sounded like fireworks went off , " says Moneymaker . A would-be assassin had fired multiple shots toward the stage from an elevated position ; one grazed Trump 's ear . " For a split second I thought it was just new theatrics for the rally , but then the mood of the crowd shifted to horror and all the agents rushed the stage to cover Trump , " says Moneymaker . " I then crawled further towards the side stage and that 's when I saw his face through the agents ' legs . " <p> Moneymaker recalls at first going numb , but after the initial shock , telling herself keep going , keep making pictures . " I made that frame of Trump surrounded by agents because I wanted to see if he was alive or not . I wanted to make an image to prove what had happened , " she says . After being disappointed with her photographic coverage at the Capitol on Jan. 6 , 2021 , Moneymaker credits personal growth and hazard training provided by her editors at Getty Images for her ability to act fast and make images at the rally in Butler . <p> Many powerful images were made that day , but Moneymaker was able to capture the essence of the moment . Her work allows us to see a full picture of what unfolded the moments after Trump was struck and " proves the importance of having plenty of photojournalists present for campaign events , to make sure everything is documented , " says Moneymaker . " I can be pretty hard on myself and compare myself to other folks in the industry , " she says , " but making this image reminded me that letting all that go can lighten the mental load and make you better at your job : photographing what matters . " <p> Brazil 's Gabriel Medina appears to levitate during the men 's surfing competition in the Paris 2024 Olympic Games , held in Teahupo'o , on the French Polynesian island of Tahiti , on July 29 . He earned the highest single-wave score in Olympic history and went on to win the bronze medal.Jerome Brouillet -- AFP/Getty Images <h> ' Walking on the Clouds ' <p> When photographer Jerome Brouillet snapped this image of Brazilian surfer Gabriel Medina , he did n't fully grasp how viral it was about to become . " At first , I thought it would make a great photo for news articles because it was n't a typical surfing shot , " explains Brouillet . " Gabriel 's gesture , the alignment of his board connected by the leash , really caught my attention . At that moment , I did n't even realize looking at my small camera screen that he was literally ' walking ' on the clouds . " <p> Still , it took Brouillet a few more days to fully understand why the image was getting so much attention on social media . " First , it looks almost unreal , which draws the attention of anyone who sees it , " he says . " The composition is also key . Gabriel in celebration , seemingly walking on a cloud , perfectly aligned with his surfboard . But for me , the real success of this photo is that it 's not a shot of someone surfing . It speaks to everyone . It 's like the iconic image of Muhammad Ali after he knocked out Sonny Liston . You do n't need to be a boxing fan to ' get ' that picture . " <p> He remains surprised and grateful for the response the image got . " I received so much love and tons of kind messages and emails from all over the world , and a lot from Brazil , " he says . " But more than that , some people I did n't even know tagged me in social media posts when I was n't credited , insisting that the photographer should be acknowledged . " <p> An animal flees as the Park Fire tears through the Cohasset community in Butte County , Calif. , on July 25 . Noah Berger -- AP <h> ' Fleeing Fast-Approaching Flames ' <p> For many years , photographer Noah Berger has been documenting wildfires raging through California -- experience that gives him the knowledge he needs to make images while navigating rapidly spreading fires . On July 25 , he was shooting the Park Fire , which went on to become California 's second largest single-ignition wildfire in state history , burning just over 429,000 acres . <p> " I photographed this fox , fleeing fast-approaching flames , as the Park Fire raced into a mountain-top community near Chico , Calif. , " Berger tells TIME in an email . " Fueled by wind and dry vegetation , the fire 's dark column of smoke began rotating as it climbed a hillside -- this is always a scary situation since it can cause erratic fire growth . " <p> Though he was there to document evacuating human residents , the sprinting fox caught his eye . In a split second he made this image , with the fox moving so quickly that most of his attempts were out of focus . " Many readers thought the fox was running through flames , but the grass is actually tinted orange by flames across the street , not on fire yet , " he says . " Embers flying high above the ground caused an extremely rapid rate of fire spread . Shortly after taking this image , I spent about 30 minutes bunkered down in a small dirt parking area surrounded by intense flames . " <p> Palestinians emerge from the rubble and dust after an Israeli attack hit the Abu Aisha family 's house in Deir al-Balah , Gaza , on June 14 . Ali Jadallah -- Anadolu/Getty Images <h> ' Desperate Search for Signs of Life ' <p> On June 14 , Ali Jadallah , a Gaza-based photographer with the Anadolu Agency , heard the sound of an explosion in Deir al Balah , a city in the central Gaza Strip . Arriving before any ambulances and civil defense teams , he captured this image of civilians helping each other out of the rubble following an explosion from an Israeli strike . " Capturing the photo just minutes after the event was far from easy , " recalls Jadallah . " Thick smoke filled the air , people were in a state of panic , and screams echoed all around . " <p> Even after more than a year of war , doing such work remains shocking for the photographer . " I 've never grown used to witnessing such devastation , and I doubt I ever will . No one can truly accept the sight of death , destruction , and blood . Each time I photograph the injured , the dead , and the aftermath of destruction , or inhale the acrid smoke still lingering after an attack , I am flooded with a familiar , haunting feeling , " says Jadallah . " It takes me back to the moment my family 's home was bombed and they were killed -- a memory that has become a recurring nightmare . I relive it with every similar scene I witness . It 's a pain I can not escape , made worse by seeing others endure the same agony . " <p> Through all this , Jadallah continues to work to document the story of the people of Gaza : " Perhaps the raw power of this photograph lies in the fact that I was there in those first critical moments -- the moments of shock , chaos , and the desperate search for signs of life . " <p> Kansas City Chiefs tight end Travis Kelce celebrates with Taylor Swift during the NFL Super Bowl 58 LVIII football game between the San Francisco 49ers and the Kansas City Chiefs in Las Vegas , on Feb. 11 . Charles Baus -- CSM/Shutterstock <h> ' Whatever Happened on the Field ' <p> On the night of Super Bowl LVIII between the Kansas City Chiefs and the San Francisco 49ers , there were two sets of fans watching their televisions . Those who were rooting for their favorite football team and the other , supporters of singer-songwriter Taylor Swift hoping to catch a glimpse of her in the stands . <p> Photographer Charles Baus had photographed three other Super Bowls before so , as always , his main objective was to cover the action on the field , but his eye was also on the viral story of the relationship between Swift and Kansas City Chiefs tight end Travis Kelce . " During the game I had spotted Taylor Swift in her luxury suite and figured she would eventually make it to the sidelines if the Chiefs had won the Super Bowl , " says Baus . " Since my photo position was going to be in the upper deck for the game , I came prepared with my long 600 mm lens . This would get me close enough to get good shots of whatever happened on the field . " <p> In the chaos of the end of the game , while capturing the excitement and dejection of each team , he simultaneously kept his eye on Swift as she made her way onto the field . " There were hundreds of people on the field and I managed to continue to follow her as she made her way through everyone and eventually to where she met Travis , " he says . Then , he was able to capture this quintessential image -- a usual celebration between partners of players after a Super Bowl win , but one that reached far beyond fans of football . 
@@119439724 <p> Damascus and Aleppo , Syria -- Until the fall of the al-Assad regime , the word " dollar " was forbidden in public . Instead , people used anything green -- my favourite substitute was " molokhiyeh " , the green leaf eaten in a stew in Arab countries . <p> This was a story I heard many times from Syrians when reporting from Aleppo and Damascus in the days following the regime 's overthrow . Under the former regime , the walls had ears and anyone could be listening on a street corner or the other end of the phone line . <p> The wrong phrase or word -- " dollar " , for example -- could land you in one of al-Assad 's notorious prisons . <p> Now , with the House of al-Assad in exile , a sudden freedom burst through that had not been possible in the last five and a half decades of dynastic family rule . <p> Syrians I met understood how fragile and fleeting such freedom of expression could be -- many telling me a few days of experiencing it were enough to never want to go back . <p> " Before , you would get your rights through connections and bribery , " Yamen Sheikh Mukhaneq , 21 , said , standing outside the Umayyad Mosque in Damascus on the first Friday prayer after the regime 's collapse . <p> Advertisement <p> A smile beaming on his face as worshippers pushed past us , the law student added : " Now , God willing , because of this liberation , I have hope . " <p> Fighters on a tank in Aleppo Ali Haj Suleiman/Al Jazeera <p> While I 've reported on Syria a lot since I started in 2011 , and spoken to many Syrians in Lebanon , Jordan , Turkiye , Egypt , the United States , France and elsewhere , I 'd never reported from Syria itself . <p> Walking under pomegranate and lemon trees in the streets of Old Damascus and peering into abandoned courtyards brought to life , so many stories I 'd heard from Syrians of what had been taken away from them in exile sprang to my mind . <p> It was surreal , something I could never have imagined even two weeks earlier . I began to imagine an alternative reality where my wife and I would take day trips to Damascus from Beirut to visit friends or marvel at the historic neighbourhoods , or even drive through Syria to Iraq , Jordan or Turkiye . <h> No more one-man rule <p> Syria is free and open , and in this renewed nation , there is much hope . Fighters I interviewed in Aleppo , who had been exiled as children and returned as liberators , expressed unbridled joy at being able to stand once again at the footsteps of the city 's historic Citadel . <p> But with new freedom , there are concerns and pitfalls . After all , any Syrian in the country who is less than 60 years old will not know what life is like under anything other than a repressive , autocratic authority . <p> On Friday , December 20 , I pushed through the packed crowd at the Citadel of Aleppo with Yousef Ahmad , a professor of accounting at Aleppo University . <p> Advertisement <p> Ahmad was buoyant that the old regime had fallen but wary of repeating old mistakes . <p> The most important thing , he told me , is not to place any individual above the country . <p> An image of Syria 's Bashar al-Assad is damaged by bullet holes Ammar Awad/Reuters <p> The cult of personality around the al-Assads must never be replicated with a new leadership , he said . Until now , the new administration 's Commander-in-Chief Ahmed al-Sharaa 's image has been limited to an occasional car with his likeness in its rear window . <p> The poisonous cult of personality is a central part of the al-Assad legacy , as is the brutal police state which disappeared thousands , led to millions of displaced , and deeply policed any expression , including the word " dollar " . <p> While US dollars ( and Turkish lira ) are now being accepted in establishments around the country , there are still concerns that free expression and other hard-won rights will be lost . <p> In Saadallah al-Jabri Square , in Aleppo 's city centre , families pushed strollers between street vendors selling the green , white and black flags of Syria . Many were euphoric , speaking of the need for a democratic Syria that represented all its sects and ethnic groups . <h> ' I tell you , Syria will be fine ' <p> One older couple had come to the square with their adult son to check out the atmosphere . They told me they were happy to be rid of the regime . <p> " For 13 years , he sat on his chair and did n't do anything , " they told me . <p> Still , as Christians , they worry about their vulnerability as minorities . Because of that , they did n't want to share with me their names or have my colleague , Ali Haj Suleiman , take their photos . <p> Advertisement <p> Until now , the new administration run by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham 's Ahmed al-Sharaa , formerly known as Abu Mohammed al-Julani , had made only positive moves , they told me . <p> " We want to get rid of the idea of ? ? sectarianism that was planted 15 years ago , " their son , a hairdresser , said . <p> At a bar in the city , people joked about armed fighters shooting up their establishment . A few people , dressed conservatively , had come around to ask if the bar served alcohol , the owner said , adding that he was never sure if they were coming for a drink or for less amicable reasons . <p> Father Hanna Jallouf , the Apostolic Vicar of Aleppo and the Roman Catholic Church 's leading religious figure in Syria , is also concerned . <p> I found Jallouf 's history interesting in that he lived under HTS in Idlib and had even been kidnapped by Jabhat al-Nusra in 2014 for five days . <p> Jabhat al-Nusra was al-Qaeda 's branch in Syria but broke with it in 2016 and reformulated itself as Hayat Tahrir al-Sham . <p> Jallouf said he understands the fear in his followers and other minorities but that he had received assurances that Christian religious symbols would not be touched . <p> He also has personal experience with Ahmed al-Sharaa , having lived in Idlib while al-Sharaa led the administration there , and has also met with the HTS leader . <p> " The man was first of all honest and wants what is best for his country , " Jallouf said . <p> " He is doing something for Syria ... I lived with them and I know them and indeed if they apply what was said , I tell you , Syria will be fine . And not just Syria but the whole region . " <p> Advertisement <p> Much attention has been given by the international media to the concerns of minorities -- Christians , in particular . <p> Recently , I read an interview with the Syrian intellectual Yassin Haj Saleh who lambasted the West for their focus on minorities as al-Assad 's regime killed hundreds of thousands of human beings . <p> I share his scepticism over the West 's stated concern for minority rights in Syria , particularly after so much indifference over the last 14 months in Gaza . <p> Worshippers at a church in Aleppo Ali Haj Suleiman/Al Jazeera <p> The concerns of minorities are real and not to be dismissed , but I also hope a focus on a particular minority group does not overshadow or dismiss the wider struggle for universal rights that thousands of Syrians are demanding across sects and regions . <p> For many , the conditions of fear imposed by the al-Assad regime are gone . The freedom Syrians have acquired is precious and brittle . Many have expressed gratitude or wonder at the fact they could even speak openly to journalists . <p> For this newfound freedom to remain , Syrians are well aware , they will need to bolster it through the efforts of the many brave activists , journalists , civil society members , and common citizens -- no matter their sect or ethnicity. 
@@119439731 <p> The sound of tanks rumbling through the streets outside of Kamal Adwan Hospital woke everyone up , they were already on edge after enduring months of direct Israeli attacks . <p> Then came the loudspeakers ordering everyone to evacuate -- the sick , the wounded , medical staff , and displaced people seeking shelter -- early on Friday morning . <p> It was clear that the medical complex in northern Gaza 's Beit Lahiya was about to face an Israeli raid , like so many had before it as Israel seemed to systematically destroy all healthcare in Gaza . <p> It did n't matter that , according to the World Health Organization , the hospital was the last major health facility operational in northern Gaza , an area that has been suffocatingly besieged and decimated by Israel in its ongoing war . <p> Nor that it was a refuge for hundreds of Palestinians whose homes had been destroyed by Israel and had nowhere else to go . <h> Numbers written on their chests <p> Dr Abu Safia came back and told people in the hospital they had been ordered to evacuate . Abu Safia himself , who was a rare voice exposing what Israel was doing to the hospital , was taken by Israel , which has refused to release him despite calls to do so from the UN , humanitarian NGOs and international health organisations . <p> A little later , al-Aswad said Israeli soldiers demanded that all the men strip down to their underwear to be allowed to leave . <p> Shivering , frightened , many of them injured , the men were ordered to walk to a checkpoint the Israelis had set up about two hours away , al-Aswad recounted by phone . <p> At the checkpoint , they gave their full names and had their photographs taken . <p> Then a number was scrawled on their chest and neck by a soldier , indicating they had been searched . <p> Some of the men were taken for interrogation . <p> " They beat me and the men around me , " al-Aswad said . " They hit the injured people like me directly on our injuries . " <p> Izzat al-Aswad was beaten badly by Israeli soldiers who had made him strip down to his underwear . Shown on the Al-Ahli Arab Hospital premises where he sought shelter . Karam Hassan/Al Jazeera <p> Shorouq al-Rantisi , 30 , a nurse in Kamal Adwan 's laboratory department , was among the women taken from the hospital . <p> The women were told to walk to the same checkpoint , which was in a school , and then waited for hours in the cold . <p> " We could hear the men being beaten and tortured . It was unbearable . " <p> Then the searches started . <p> " The soldiers were dragging the women by the head towards the search area , " al-Rantisi said . " They shouted at us , demanding we remove our headscarves . Those who refused were beaten badly . " <p> Advertisement <p> " The first girl called for searching was told to strip . When she refused , a soldier beat her and forced her to lift her clothes . <p> " A soldier dragged me by the head and then another soldier ordered me to lift the top of my clothes , then the bottom , and checked my ID , " she said . <p> Shrouq al-Rantisi , a laboratory nurse at the hospital , was dragged by the head to be interrogated by Israeli soldiers . Shown on the Al-Ahli Arab Hospital premises where she also sought shelter Karam Hassan/Al Jazeera <h> Abandoned patients <p> Al-Rantisi said the women were eventually taken , left at a roundabout , and told they could not go back to Beit Lahiya . <p> " How could we leave and abandon the patients ? None of us ever thought of leaving until we were forced to , " she said on the phone . <p> Israel assaulted the hospital for many weeks before the raid . <p> " The hospital and its courtyard were bombed relentlessly , day and night , as if it was normal , " al-Aswad said . <p> " Quadcopters fired at anyone moving in the courtyard ... they targeted generators and water tanks , while medical staff were struggling to care for patients . " <p> The night before the raid was " terrifying " , al-Aswad added , with Israeli attacks all around , including on the " al-Safeer " building . <p> " Witnesses say about 50 people were in there , including nurses from the hospital . No one could rescue them or retrieve their bodies , they 're still there , " he recounted . <p> Al-Aswad and the men who were not taken for interrogation were released after a full day of abuse and humiliation . <p> " The soldiers ordered us to go west of Gaza City and never come back , " he said . " We walked through destruction and rubble , freezing , until people came to meet us near Gaza City , offering help and blankets . " <p> Fadi al-Atawneh was injured , so he stayed behind in the hospital hoping for help that never came . Shown on the Al-Ahli Arab Hospital premises where he sought shelter Karam Hassan/Al Jazeera <h> ' Betrayed ' and ' abandoned ' <p> Israel 's raid merely compounded " the global silence and abandonment " Palestinians in Gaza have been faced with throughout more than a year of relentless Israeli attacks that killed more than 45,000 people , al-Rantisi said . <p> Advertisement <p> " Over 60 days of relentless shelling -- quadcopters , artillery , and targeted strikes on generators , " she said . <p> " Dr Hussam 's pleas went unanswered until the hospital was stormed and emptied . How does the world allow this to happen ? " <p> " I feel we were all betrayed , " Fadi al-Atawneh , 32 , said bitterly on the phone . <p> " I was wounded , so I stayed in the hospital , hoping that the World Health Organization would evacuate or protect us , but it never happened , " al-Atawneh said . <p> " I am deeply saddened by what happened to us and the fate of Dr Abu Safia . We 're left alone in the face of this aggression . " 
@@119439738 <p> Pro-Palestinian protestors go on top of the Brooklyn Museum entrance roof during a protest , amid the ongoing conflict between Israel and the Palestinian Islamist group Hamas in Gaza , in the Brooklyn borough of New York City , U.S. , May 31 , 2024 . REUTERS/Eduardo Munoz ( Reuters ) <p> For artists , it is difficult to reflect on the past year without thinking about Israel 's genocide in Gaza that has killed more than 45,000 Palestinians per the official count or more than 220,000 per realistic estimates . <p> While art is something to be enjoyed , as it enriches every aspect of our lives , identities , and culture , it is also central to struggle . Art is powerful , it allows us to share emotions and stories with people around the world even if we do n't share a common language . Israel knows this , and that 's why it targets all those with a talent and passion to transmit messages about Gaza 's horrific reality . <p> Indeed , Israel seems to make it a tactic in its broader strategy of ethnic cleansing to wipe out Palestinians who inspire not just their own people , but everyone waging a fight against injustice . <p> Painters , illustrators , poets , photographers , writers , designers ... so many talented Palestinians have already been killed . It is incumbent on us to ensure that they are not forgotten . They are not numbers , and their work should be remembered , always . <p> Advertisement <p> We must tell people about Heba Zagout , the 39-year-old painter , poet and novelist , killed along with two of her children in an Israeli air strike . Her rich paintings of Palestinian women and the holy sites of Jerusalem were her way of speaking to the " outside world " . <p> We must say the name of renowned painter and arts educator , Fathi Ghaben , whose beautiful works that captured Palestinian resistance should be seen by all . <p> We have to teach the words of Refaat Alareer , one of Gaza 's most brilliant writers and teachers who lectured at the Islamic University of Gaza . <p> We have to talk about the beauty in the art of Mahasen al-Khatib , who was killed by an Israeli air strike on Jabalia refugee camp . In her last illustration , she honoured 19-year-old Shaban al-Dalou , who burned to death in the Israeli attack on the Al-Aqsa Hospital compound . <p> However , ensuring their stories and works are not erased also means we need to take action , wherever we are . Honouring these martyrs and celebrating their art requires that we go beyond words . <p> Some in the art world already know this . They have joined the resistance within art spaces and ensured that Israel 's crimes are denounced on their platforms . There have been many acts of solidarity and bravery throughout the past year . <p> When the Barbican Centre in London cancelled Indian writer Pankaj Mishra 's lecture on the genocide in Palestine in February , art collectors Lorenzo Legarda Leviste and Fahad Mayet withdrew artwork by Loretta Pettway from the centre 's gallery . <p> Advertisement <p> " It is incumbent on all of us to stand up to institutional violence , and demand transparency and accountability in its wake ... We will never accept censorship , repression and racism within its walls , " they wrote . <p> In March , Egyptian visual artist Mohamed Abla returned his Goethe Medal , awarded for outstanding artistic achievement by Germany 's Goethe Institut , in protest of the German government 's complicity in the Israeli genocide . <p> Before the opening of the Venice Biennale in April , more than 24,000 artists from around the world -- including previous Biennale participants and prestigious award recipients -- signed an open letter calling on the organisers to exclude Israel from the event . One Israeli artist eventually decided not to open her exhibition . <p> In September , Pulitzer Prize-winning author Jhumpa Lahiri refused to accept an award from the Noguchi Museum in New York after it fired three employees for wearing Palestinian keffiyeh scarves . <p> Earlier this month , artist Jasleen Kaur , who received the prestigious Turner prize , used her acceptance speech to condemn the genocide , calling for a free Palestine , an arms embargo and extending solidarity with the Palestinians . She stood in solidarity with all those who protested outside the Tate Britain in London , where the event took place , calling on it to divest from funds and projects linked to the Israeli government . <p> " I want to echo the calls of the protesters outside . A protest made up of artists , culture workers , Tate staff , students , who I stand firmly with , " Kaur stated . " This is not a radical demand , this should not risk an artist 's career or safety . " <p> Advertisement <p> Despite these acts of solidarity , the vicious censorship , omission , repression and witch-hunts of art related to Palestine have not abated over the past 12 months . <p> In January , the Indiana University art museum cancelled an exhibition by Palestinian artist Samia Halaby . <p> In May , the town of Vail in Colorado cancelled the artist residency of Danielle SeeWalker , a Native American artist who had compared the plight of Palestinians to the plight of Native Americans . <p> In July , the Royal Academy of Arts removed two pieces of artwork from their Young Artists ' Summer Show because they were related to Israel 's war on Gaza . This came after the pro-Israel Board of Deputies of British Jews had sent it a letter regarding the artwork . <p> In November , the altonale festival in Hamburg cancelled an exhibition of artworks produced by children in Gaza after social media posts attacking it . <p> These are just a few examples of the massive censorship that Palestinian art and artists and creators who have voiced their solidarity with Palestine have faced over the past year . The silencing and whitewashing within cultural spaces have also taken place at an institutional level . <p> In the UK , the Arts Council England ( ACE ) warned art institutions that " political statements " could potentially negatively affect funding agreements . This was revealed upon the trade union Equity 's Freedom of Information request , which also showed that ACE and the Department of Media , Culture and Sport ( DMCS ) even met about the " reputational risk relating to Israel-Gaza conflict " . <p> Advertisement <p> Some have highlighted the contradiction of ACE 's actions given it openly expressed solidarity with Ukraine in 2022 after the Russian invasion . But it is not just ACE that has demonstrated blatant double standards in addressing the slaughter in Gaza . <p> The brilliant Palestinian artist Basma Alsharif articulated the institutional hypocrisy perfectly in her letter to the " Vapid Neoliberal Art World " . <p> She wrote : " I hope this genocide finds you well . What exactly are you doing these days ? Why did it take you months to write a statement , if you did at all ? Why did n't you just shut down ? Why are n't you able to boycott Israel the way you have Russia , the way you did Apartheid South Africa ? Have you seen the number of statements out there ? The open letters ? The call for strikes ? How many hashtags did you all decide it would take to atone for your sins ? " <p> There are no excuses for complacency regarding the genocide in Gaza . The Palestinian people face extermination and our responsibility to them is to ensure our governments , institutions and industry are not left in peace until they cut ties with Israel , stop silencing those speaking out against its crimes , and commit to the liberation of Palestine . <p> I urge all those in the art world -- a pocket of whom were so vibrantly represented in the protest outside the Tate when Kaur was awarded -- to remember the words of American author James Baldwin : <p> " The precise role of the artist , then , is to illuminate that darkness , blaze roads through that vast forest , so that we will not , in all our doing , lose sight of its purpose , which is , after all , to make the world a more human dwelling place . " <p> Advertisement <p> States and their institutions may use the scramble for funding and platforms to repress our expression of solidarity , but ultimately they wo n't win . Those who concede for their personal and professional gains may try to convince themselves that this movement will die down and the issue will be forgotten , but until Palestine is free -- and this will take place -- we are keeping the receipts , we are noting the absence , we are hearing the silence over Israel 's genocide in Gaza . It is not too late to stand on the right side of history . <p> A happy new year will only be possible once the Palestinians and all those facing oppression are free . <p> The views expressed in this article are the author 's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera 's editorial stance . 
@@119439739 <p> Egyptian President Anwar Sadat , US President Jimmy Carter and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin clasp hands on the north lawn of the White House after signing the peace treaty between Egypt and Israel on March 26 , 1979 in Washington File : AP/Bob Daugherty <p> On December 29 , former President Jimmy Carter passed away at the age of 100 . As the 39th president of the United States and as a private citizen , Carter was an advocate for peace between nations , democracy and various humanitarian and environmental causes . But in the Middle East , he is going to be remembered as the father of Arab-Israeli normalisation . <p> Sworn in as president in 1977 , Carter was given the opportunity by Egyptian President Anwar Sadat to be the architect of the first normalisation deal between an Arab country and the Zionist state . He helped Sadat and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin conclude the 1978 Camp David Accords and negotiate the 1979 Egyptian-Israeli peace treaty that formally ended the conflict between the two countries . <p> As developments in the past four decades have shown , neither the accords nor the treaty led to peace and justice in the Middle East . Israel continues its occupation of the West Bank and East Jerusalem and has launched a genocidal war on the Gaza Strip ; the Palestinians still do not have an independent state with Jerusalem as its capital ; and an overwhelming majority of the Arab public refuses to recognise Israel or agree to normalising relations with it . <p> Advertisement <p> Looking back at the accords Carter brokered , it is clear that they were the beginning of the slow and gradual , although not publicly acknowledged , abandonment of the Palestinian cause by Arab officialdom , and a US campaign to bury Palestinian national aspirations . <h> The legacy of Camp David <p> The Camp David Accords were first and foremost a roadmap towards a full Egyptian-Israeli peace , full recognition of Israel by Egypt , and an end to Egypt 's participation in the Arab economic boycott of Israel . To be sure , the accords were a mere framework for negotiations between the two countries that would lead a few months later to the signing of a peace treaty . <p> But they also included provisions related to the Palestinian people , whose wording was indicative of the ultimate purpose of the accords . The document spoke of a plan to provide " autonomy " to the " inhabitants " of the occupied territory , as if the Palestinians were aliens squatting in the West Bank and Gaza . <p> At the time , the US had not yet recognised the Palestine Liberation Organization ( PLO ) as the sole legitimate representative of the Palestinian people . Thus , the accords called for electing a " self-governing authority " for the occupied territory . But that autonomy and the elected authority were to be supervised by Israel , Egypt , and Jordan , in obvious violation of the Palestinians ' right to constitute an independent , national government . <p> Throughout the 1980s , and because of US-supported Israeli objections , the Palestinians were absent and prevented from playing a role in devising peace plans for the Arab-Israeli and Palestine-Israel conflict . But the eruption of the first Intifada in December of 1987 and Jordan 's 1988 relinquishing of its claim to the West Bank made it clear that the Palestinians could no longer be ignored in peace negotiations . <p> Advertisement <p> Still , in 1991 , the Palestinians participating in the Madrid Conference were only present as part of a Jordanian delegation , once again denying their nationhood . <p> Like other iterations of the US-led and sponsored " peace process " , the Madrid path led to a stalemate , as Israel continued to ignore the Palestinians ' national rights and reject any talk of ending its occupation . Following the Israeli elections in 1992 that brought the Labor Party to power , the US shepherded the Oslo Accords between the PLO and Israel that created the Palestinian National Authority ( PA ) . As a constituted government for the Palestinians , the PA was required to recognise Israel 's right to exist before securing official Israeli acknowledgement of Palestinian grievances and national aspirations . <p> Jordan , for its part , had to sign a peace treaty with Israel , becoming the second Arab state after Egypt to recognise the Zionist state . All Amman was able to preserve from its relationship with Palestine was its custodianship of religious sites in Jerusalem , a status that is constantly challenged by the Israeli authorities today . <h> The Abraham Accords <p> Throughout the so-called " peace process " that the Camp David Accords set in motion , the US was keen to encourage Arab states to consider their interests separately from those of the Palestinians . This encouragement became a full-fledged campaign during the presidency of Donald Trump who , along with his administration lieutenants , evinced more than the usual American bias in favour of the Zionist state . <p> Advertisement <p> In 2020 , Trump presided over the signing of the so-called Abraham Accords that normalised relations between Israel and the United Arab Emirates , Bahrain , and Morocco . Sudan joined the following year . <p> While all Arab states involved insisted that the normalisation of relations with Israel would help improve the lives of Palestinians and should not be seen as abandoning them , the truth was they all got something in return for recognising Israel with no regard for Palestinian interests . <p> The UAE 's normalisation with Israel appears to be the fastest and deepest . The two countries have quickly developed and expanded military and economic relations . Bahrain aimed to use its relations with Israel as a hedge against an aggressive Iran . Morocco received a much-desired US recognition of its sovereignty over the Western Sahara . And Sudan was able to get itself removed from the US list of state sponsors of terrorism . <p> To be sure , the Abraham Accords were no more than transactions that advanced the signers ' interests at the expense of the Palestinian cause , thus allowing Israel to deepen its apartheid policies and entrench its occupation of Palestinian land . <p> And it is not difficult to see a strong desire in the upcoming Trump administration for an expanded map of Arab normalisation with Israel , one that includes Saudi Arabia , for example . As was the case with earlier normalisation deals , the Palestinians will be the last to count on any dividends from more Arab openness on Israel . <h> A welcome change of heart <p> After the end of his presidential term , Carter continued to pursue efforts for peace between Palestinians and Israelis . But the more he observed the situation on the ground , the more he became convinced that the US policy of steadfast support for Israel was wrong and counterproductive . <p> Advertisement <p> Thus in 2007 , he published a book titled Palestine : Peace Not Apartheid in which he declared that Israeli policies in the occupied Palestinian territories amounted to the crime of apartheid . This was a welcome change of heart from a long-held conviction among many US politicians and opinion-makers . Carter remains the only prominent US politician brave enough to call Israeli policies and practices by their proper name . <p> As Americans mourn his death and remember his legacy , it is important to reflect on the disastrous US policies in Palestine . Over the past four decades , Israel 's occupation has grown more and more violent thanks in large part to unconditional US support . <p> It is time for Washington to revise its stance on Israel-Palestine . A reversal in US policy on Palestine -- one that recognises Palestinian rights and holds Israel accountable for its crimes -- is something Jimmy Carter likely would have wanted to see in his lifetime . <p> The views expressed in this article are the author 's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera 's editorial stance . 
@@119440127 <h> Three consequential foreign policy decisions of Jimmy Carter <h> The 39th President of the United States completed the diplomatic normalisation process with China , launched the policy of supporting the Afghan Mujahideen against the community government in Kabul and its Soviet backers and brokered the Camp David agreement between Egypt and Israel , which also called for the establishment of Palestinian self-rule in occupied territories <p> Former President Jimmy Carter poses for a portrait during the Toronto International Film Festival , Sept. 10 , 2007 , in Toronto . Photo Credit : AP <p> When Jimmy Carter , the 39th President of the U.S. , exited the White House in 1981 , he was largely written off as an inconsequential leader . The U.S. economy was stagnant . Inflation and unemployment were stubbornly high . In 1979 , the Shah of Iran , an American ally , was overthrown by a popular revolution . An Iranian mob seized the U.S. embassy and took 52 Americans hostage . A commando operation aimed at rescuing the hostages turned out to be a disaster in the Iranian deserts . In 1978 , communists took over Kabul , allowing the Soviet Union to expand its influence to the borders of Pakistan , America 's South Asian ally . A year later , the Soviets sent troops to Afghanistan . Carter , a Democrat , sought re-election in 1980 with the image of a weak President . And he was easily defeated by Republican Ronald Reagan <h> China <p> Mr. Carter , who died on Sunday at age 100 , lived long enough to see historians taking a kinder view of his legacy . From his energy policies to his emphasis on human rights , many today laud him as a visionary . He also reinvented the post-presidency life , placing himself at the centre of America 's liberal internationalism , and won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2002 . While the debate over his legacy continues , it 's not difficult to see that at least three foreign policy decisions he made continued to define his record in the White House and set a new direction for American foreign policy for decades . <p> One , Mr. Carter seized the momentum created by Richard Nixon 's diplomatic breakthrough with communist China and took quick steps to complete the normalisation process . One of the sticking points in talks was the status of Taiwan . China wanted the U.S. to recognise the One China policy . The Carter administration agreed to pull back American military presence from Taiwan and the Taiwan Strait , cut diplomatic ties with Taipei and establish full diplomatic relations with Beijing . However , Washington insisted that it would continue to maintain defence and commercial ties with Taiwan , a position China agreed . The normalisation agreement was announced in December 1978 by Carter and China 's leader Deng Xiaoping . The rapprochement Nixon initiated was institutionalised by Carter . It evolved into an anti-Soviet quasi alliance under Reagan , and a post-COld War pro-business partnership under Bill Clinton . <h> Afghanistan <p> When the communist People 's Democratic Party of Afghanistan ( PDPA ) captured power in Kabul in 1978 , the Americans remained helpless spectators . But when Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev decided to send troops to Afghanistan , the U.S. saw it as an opportunity . It was President Carter who launched the policy of supporting the Afghan Mujahideen against the communist government in Kabul and its Soviet backers . His National Security Adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski travelled to Pakistan , met the Afghan refugees and the Mujahideen and promised American support . The American policy was to fund and train the Afghan tribal warlords , with help from Pakistan and Saudi Arabia , in their fight against communism . Reagan would embrace this policy with open hands in later years . Ten years after its military intervention , the Soviets were forced to withdraw from Afghanistan by February 1989 . In the same year , Soviet-aligned communist governments in eastern Europe would fall one after another , leading to the eventual collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 . Within months , the PDPA government in Kabul would also fall . The American policy , critics would argue , had played a role in the destruction of Afghanistan and the rise of the Taliban in 1996 . But what Washington wanted was to defeat the Soviets in Afghanistan and they achieved it in 1989 . <h> Israel-Palestine <p> Mr. Carter 's most profound achievement was perhaps the Camp David Accords of 1978 . The agreements , signed between Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin and Egyptian President Anwar Sadat , was a signature moment in the Arab-Israeli conflict . In October 1973 , Egypt and Syria launched a surprise attack against Israel . Israel had captured Egypt 's Sinai Peninsula and Syria 's Golan Heights , along with Palestinian West Bank , Gaza and East Jerusalem , in the 1967 war . With American help Israel managed to push back the Egyptians and the Syrians in 1973 , but the attack remained a shock in Israel 's psyche . <p> Mr. Carter sensed an opportunity for peace between Egypt and Israel and pushed for it . He also said he could not ignore the plight of the Palestinians . Egypt wanted Sinai back and Israel to recognise Palestinian sovereignty . Begin initially resisted the pressure tactics of Egypt and the U.S. , but finally gave in . As part of the agreement , Israel agreed to return Sinai back to Egypt and establish a self-rule administration in the occupied Palestinian territories . In return Egypt became the first Arab country to recognise the state of Israel . The Framework for Peace in the Middle East agreement , which promised Palestinian self rule , was the foundation on which the Oslo Accords of the 1990s and the promise of the two-state solution were built . <p> Even after exiting the White House , Carter remained a strong supporter of the Palestinian cause . " In my opinion it was imperative that the United States work to obtain for these Palestinian people the right to vote , the right to assemble , and to debate issues that affected their lives , the right to own property without fear of it 's confiscated , and the right to be free of military rule . To deny these rights was an indefensible position for a free and democratic society . " Carter wrote in his memoir , Keeping Faith . <h> Comments <p> Comments have to be in English , and in full sentences . They can not be abusive or personal . Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments . <p> We have migrated to a new commenting platform . If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in , you may continue to engage with our articles . If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments . Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle. 
@@119443629 <p> Gannon " verbally antagonized a group of people exercising their right to peacefully demonstrate and escalated his verbal attacks by charging across a busy street and physically attacking the victim , knowing that victim to be armed with a firearm , " prosecutor Christopher Tarrant said in Newton District Court , per WHDH video from the arraignment . <p> Advertisement : <p> Hayes , 47 , has pleaded not guilty to assault and battery with a dangerous weapon for his alleged role in the altercation , part of which was captured in a viral video . He is accused of shooting Gannon as both men wrestled on the ground , though he plans to claim self-defense . <p> Yet Gannon 's defense attorney , Stephen Colella , described Hayes as " someone who , allegedly attending a peaceful rally , saw fit to bring a semiautomatic weapon and 20 rounds , and a person who has , in fact , attended similar rallies in the past similarly armed , " per the WHDH clip . <p> Colella was not immediately available for comment Monday . According to The Boston Globe , he told the court Gannon -- who was hospitalized for more than a month after the shooting -- does not have a prior criminal record . <p> Advertisement : <p> In the months leading up to their altercation , both Gannon and Hayes used social media to share clashing views on Israel 's war in Gaza . According to the Newton Beacon , Gannon posted his opposition to Israel and called for an end to the United States . Hayes , meanwhile , made a name for himself as a pro-Israel agitator and did n't shy away from bringing guns into the equation ; in May , he shared a picture of a firearm on X with the caption , " Hey Jew haters . Bring it . " 
@@119444437 <p> Geneva -- The head of the United Nations ' World Health Organization called Monday for the immediate release of Hossam Abu Safiyeh , director of the war-torn Gaza Strip 's Kamal Adwan Hospital , who is being held by Israel 's military following a major raid on the facility . The Friday-Saturday assault on Kamal Adwan in Beit Lahia left northern Gaza 's last major health facility out of service and emptied of patients , the WHO said . <p> " Hospitals in Gaza have once again become battlegrounds and the health system is under severe threat , " WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said on X. " Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza is out of service following the raid , forced patient and staff evacuation and the detention of its director . His whereabouts are unknown . We call for his immediate release . " <p> Israel 's military said Sunday that its forces had killed approximately 20 Palestinian militants and apprehended " 240 terrorists " in the raid , calling it one of its " largest operations " conducted in the territory . The Israeli military said it had detained Abu Safiyeh , suspecting him of being a Hamas militant . When asked if he had been transferred to Israeli territory for further questioning , the military did not offer an immediate comment . <p> Israeli officials have consistently accused Hamas of using civilians as human shields , positioning its weapons and fighters in and underneath hospitals , schools and other vital infrastructure . The group , which has long been designated a terrorist organization by Israel and the U.S. , has denied those accusations . <p> The London-based charity Amnesty International also called on Israel to immediately and unconditionally release Abu Safiyeh , saying in a series of social media posts that the hospital director had become the " voice of Gaza 's decimated health sector . " <p> 1/5 We are extremely concerned over the fate &amp; wellbeing of Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya , director of Kamal Adwan hospital who was detained by Israeli forces along with others during a raid on the hospital on 27 December . He must be released immediately and unconditionally . **26;1635;TOOLONG <p> The charity has accused Israel 's military of genocide against the Palestinians in Gaza -- an accusation Israel has repeated and vehemently rejected -- and it accused the Israeli military of detaining " hundreds of Palestinian healthcare workers " without charge and subjecting them " to torture and other ill-treatment . " <p> Since October 6 this year , Israeli operations in Gaza have focused on the north , with officials saying their land and air offensive aims to prevent Hamas from regrouping . <p> Health officials in the Hamas-run Palestinian territory said Monday that the overall death toll in Gaza from Israel 's offensive had risen to 45,541 , including 27 people the Health Ministry said had been killed over the previous 24 hours alone . <p> The ministry said at least 108,338 others had been wounded since Israel launched its offensive against Hamas . The war was launched in response to Hamas ' Oct. 7 , 2023 terrorist attack , which saw the militants kill some 1,200 people in Israel and kidnap 251 others . <p> Palestinians walk among debris following the Israeli attack on the courtyard of Kamal Adwan Hospital and its surrounding buildings in Beit Lahia , northern Gaza , Dec. 25 , 2024 . Khalil Ramzi Alkahlut/Anadolu/Getty <p> Frigid winter temperatures have compounded the misery for Palestinians in Gaza after more than a year of war . Medics in the enclave have reported infants dying of hypothermia in recent weeks . <p> Dr. Fidda Al-Nadi , a doctor at the Nasser Hospital in the southern city of Khan Younis , which has not functioned fully since Israeli raids early this year , told CBS News last week that it was admitting one or two cases of hypothermia every single day , and that the youngest patients were the most vulnerable . <p> " In the stress we are living in , many children are born prematurely , and this predisposes them more to hypothermia , " Al-Nadi said . 
@@119448033 <p> " These Palestinian filmmakers have accomplished a cinematic miracle . They have made a brilliant film in the midst of what Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch have now declared a genocide , " Moore said in a statement on Monday . <h> Related Stories <p> The anthology of documentary , fiction and animated films was spearheaded by Gaza-born Palestinian director Rashid Masharawi and his Masharawi Fund for local films and filmmakers . <p> " The only weapons that Rashid and these 22 courageous Palestinian directors in Gaza have are their cameras and their creativity . No filmmaker , writer or artist should ever have to tell the story of their own extermination . It 's an honor to stand in solidarity with them and help share their stories with the world , " Moore added . <p> Known for his documentaries and a signature storytelling , Moore 's credits include his Oscar-winning film Bowling for Columbine , the Cannes Palme d'Or-winning Fahrenheit 9/11 and Sicko , about the U.S. healthcare system . <p> Director Masharawi thanked Moore for getting behind the film 's Oscar campaign . " The team is both humbled and thrilled to be shortlisted . With Michael Moore 's involvement , we are even more empowered to portray the humanity and resilience of Palestinians , share their creativity with the world , and showcase the power of cinema as a force for justice and understanding , " he said in his own statement . <p> Variety was the first to report on Michael Moore boarding the From Ground Zero film . 
@@119448920 <h> Three soldiers from the battalion were also critically wounded . <p> Sergeant ( Sgt. ) Uriel Peretz , 23 , from Beitar Illit , was killed in Beit Hanoun in northern Gaza , the IDF announced on Monday . <p> The IDF also announced that three soldiers were critically wounded and were evacuated to a hospital to receive medical treatment . <p> Sgt. Peretz and the wounded soldiers were in the IDF 's Netzah Yehuda ( 97 ) Battalion in the Kfir Brigade . <p> Peretz 's family has been notified of his death . His funeral will take place on Tuesday at 2 p.m. , Maariv reported . <h> Further operations in Beit Hanoun <p> It was reported last Saturday in the northern Gaza city that the IDF 's Nahal Brigade had begun operations against terror targets following intelligence regarding the presence of terrorist infrastructure and operatives in the area . The IDF begins operations in Beit Hanoun , in the northern Gaza on September 28 , 2024. ( credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <p> The IDF confirmed that soldiers were enabling Palestinian civilians to evacuate the area through designated routes . 
@@119448922 <h> Jimmy Carter : A Jewish tragedy - opinion <h> Not a Cyrus nor a Truman , in the end , Jimmy Carter , but a Nebuchadnezzar who befriended Haman . <p> A grim-faced President Jimmy Carter , seated at desk in Oval Office of White House tells of the aborted rescue effort intended to get the 53 American hostages out of Iran . April 25 , 1980. ( photo credit : ( **26;2333;TOOLONG Images ) ) <p> Among many other time-tested attributes , the Jewish people have a long memory . Aid us in the manner of the ancient Persian King Cyrus , and we will remember you forever fondly . Cross us as Seleucid King Antiochus IV did , and we will curse you every Hanukkah . <p> While the rest of the world is now hailing him as a statesman who , after his failed one-term presidency , rose to become an unstinting peacemaker , a Nobel Peace Prize winner , and a paragon of now non-existent virtues , many Jews will have a far more ambivalent reaction . <p> The man whose legacy could have been cherished by future Jewish generations , with streets in Jerusalem named for him and communities created in his honor , will be at best forgotten , if not reviled . That is the tragedy of Jimmy Carter , a leader who could have gone down in Jewish history as a second Truman , will be recalled , if at all , as another Bernie Sanders . <p> The tragedy is compounded by the fact that the Jewish state owes Carter an immense historical debt . In an anomalous way , his insistence on including the Soviets in the Middle East peace process immediately after Egypt succeeded in evicting them convinced president Anwar Sadat of the need to act swiftly and independently of the United States . <p> The result came in November 1977 , with Sadat 's groundbreaking visit to Israel . Carter , to his credit , leaped into the diplomatic breach , and devoted 13 presidential days to forging the Camp David Peace Accords between Egypt and Israel . Though never close to yielding a warm peace , that treaty has since withstood tectonic pressures and relieved Israel of the threat of large-scale Arab armies . Syrian President Hafez al-Assad and President Carter . May 1977 ( credit : Wally **25;2361;TOOLONG Images ) <p> But , sadly , that achievement proved to be a one-off . The self-proclaimed champion of human rights , Carter was comfortable with Middle Eastern dictators like Sadat , Hafez al-Assad , and the shah of Iran , but endlessly critical of Israel 's democratically elected leaders , beginning with Menachem Begin . <p> No sooner were the Camp David Accords signed in 1979 than Carter embarked on a 40-year smear campaign against Israel . <p> In my meeting with him several years after , Carter insisted that Israel was violating UN Resolution 242 by not withdrawing to the pre-Six Day War boundaries and failing to create a Palestinian state . <p> My assurances that the resolution specifically voided the return to the indefensible 1967 borders and made no mention of the Palestinians , much less of a state , were righteously rejected . <h> Dark obsession with Israel <p> From a mere misreading of 242 , Carter descended into a dark obsession with Israel , casting it as the source of all Middle Eastern instability and a world-leading violator of human rights . His 2004 book , Palestine : Peace Not Apartheid , though based on half-truths and outright lies , effectively legitimized Israel 's delegitimization . <p> Yet , while reviewing the book for the Wall Street Journal , what shocked me so profoundly was Carter 's not-so-subtle antisemitism . He lambastes secular Israelis for abandoning Jewish law and condemns National-Religious Jews for fulfilling it . Whether Right or Left , Jews can do no right by Jimmy Carter . The one-time peanut farmer from Georgia who spent a lifetime repenting for his earlier racism against Blacks , conveniently forgot that the KKK also murdered Jews.Head of the UN fact finding mission on the 2008 Gaza Conflict , Richard Goldstone looks on after delivering a report before the Human Rights Council . The UN report accused both Israel and the Palestinians of committing ' ' war crimes ' ' in the Gaza Strip . ( credit : Fabrice Coffrini/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> CARTER WAS N'T satisfied with merely libeling Israel . His final decades were devoted to whitewashing Hamas and presenting it as an organization opposed to terror and dedicated to peace . <p> That was the message he conveyed on the op-ed pages of The New York Times and in public appearances worldwide . While shunning meetings with Israeli leaders , he embraced Khaled Mashaal , Ismail Haniyeh , and other terror chiefs . <p> He supported the Goldstone Report that condemned Israel for committing war crimes during the 2008-09 conflict with Gaza and accused Israel of systematically starving Gaza 's civilian population . The terrorists ' attempts to bore under Israel 's border were , in Carter 's telling , " defensive tunnels being dug by Hamas inside the wall that encloses Gaza . " <p> Sanctimonious and prideful , Carter was never popular among his successors , Democratic and Republican alike , who generally shunned him . A story told me by an Israeli official who participated in the Camp David talks summed up the reasons for this aversion . <p> Visiting Israel in the ' 80s , well after Begin 's resignation and physical decline , Carter asked this official to arrange a phone call . The conversation lasted a few minutes , at most , the ex-official told me , during which Carter talked endlessly and Begin said nothing . <p> That did not prevent Carter from immediately going to the press and reporting on how he and Begin discussed the peace process and other Middle East affairs . " It was a total lie , " the official told me . " A fiction . " <h> A tarnished legacy <p> That , unfortunately , is how many Israelis will remember Jimmy Carter , a person for whom the truth , especially about Israel , was easily discounted . A person who expressed not the slightest gratitude for the Israeli medical technology that successfully treated his melanoma or for the Israeli prime minister who assured him , inaccurately , " that you 've inscribed your name forever in the history of ... the people of Israel . " <p> Not a Cyrus nor a Truman , in the end , Jimmy Carter , but a Nebuchadnezzar who befriended Haman . <p> The writer , formerly Israel 's ambassador to the US , Knesset member , and deputy minister of diplomacy in the Prime Minister 's Office , is the founder of the Israel Advocacy Group and the author of the Substack Clarity . 
@@119448924 <h> " My mission is to try to understand what happened to you on Oct. 7 ... in the blink of an eye , it switched your reality from joy to horror . I dedicate this film to you . The true forces of resilience . " <p> When 14-year-old Hillel Kornwasser of Teaneck , New Jersey , went to Israel with his father for the bar mitzvah of a close family friend last February , he could not have anticipated the profound impact of the trip , which included meeting with survivors of the Supernova music festival and with soldiers returning from Gaza . <p> Kornwasser was so moved and inspired by the experience , that he spent the next 10 months making his first film , Forces of Resilience ( in partnership with NCSY ) , which was set to premiere at Teaneck 's Congregation Rinat Israel on December 22 . <p> The Heichal HaTorah freshman recalls that he was in synagogue on Oct. 7 when he went out for a few minutes with a friend and began to hear what was unfolding on that day in Israel . He learned of the terrorist attacks not far from where his brother was learning in yeshiva . <p> Despite the seriousness of the events in Israel , Kornwasser reports feeling that " the next day for us was like a regular day -- with 15 or 20 guys playing basketball . We did n't understand what was happening in Israel . We were completely oblivious . " <p> Even on the February trip , which was scheduled to include " inspiring and mission stuff , " Kornwasser admits that he was " living the life of a teen " and " was n't so connected at the time . " As the week-long trip unfolded , Kornwasser had many experiences that profoundly impacted him . Hillel Kornwasser is seen interviewing Daniel Sharabi , survivor of the October 7 massacre . ( credit : Courtesy Kornwasser family ) <p> " When we took a bus down south , we saw tanks on the side of the road . We made a barbecue for soldiers who , two hours before , were in Gaza and had lost five guys in their unit . I took in everything , including the fact that the soldiers could fall down and get back up and be b'simcha happy . " <p> Kornwasser visited the Supernova site , met wounded soldiers at Ichilov Hospital ( he recounted the story of a soldier with " 100 needles in his leg " ) , and heard what he describes as " stories of people who experienced the worst day and found a way to recover and get joy . " He adds , " The whole point is their resilience -- even after losing family and friends . " <p> These intense experiences got Kornwasser thinking . " I walked out of Ichilov Hospital and started to think -- ' I need to do something to show my friends what is happening in Israel ! ' " When he returned home and was " back to basketball and friends , " Kornwasser continued to wonder , " How can I inspire my friends and other people ? " <h> The making of Forces of Resilience <p> He started with a five-minute video which got 5,000 views online . He knew he was on to something . " This is something I can do to make a difference ! " <p> Kornwasser decided to make a movie to " help kids understand the magnitude of what happened . " He interviewed seven guests " to highlight resilience in different ways . " <p> THE 31-minute film begins with Kornwasser sitting at his desk upon his return home from the week-long trip to Israel . He is writing a letter that reads , " Dear courageous soldiers and dear brothers and sisters trapped in Gaza ... " He says that he is " flooded with thoughts and emotions " and notes that this is not like his past trips to Israel . <p> He clarifies , " My mission is to try to understand what happened to you on October 7 ... in the blink of an eye , it switched your reality from joy to horror . I dedicate this film to you . The true forces of resilience . " <p> Kornwasser explains that the goal is " for people to understand that if they the soldiers can fall down and find a way to be resilient and get back up , then so can we . " <p> The earnest and deeply spiritual Kornwasser introduces each guest , shares why they were chosen to be in the film , and offers some framing and context . For example , Kornwasser asks , " How did it happen ? How did we recover from the biggest massacre of the Jewish people since the Holocaust ? " <p> In introducing Airley , who joined him at the New Jersey movie premiere , he offers , " Her bitachon faith could have been broken when her son , Binyamin , was killed in northern Gaza . Instead , it became stronger . " <p> When he presents Breda , who helped raise $25,000 to provide tzitzit ( ritual fringes ) to Israeli soldiers " for spiritual protection , " Kornwasser says , " I want to take a minute to speak specifically to the teenage audience . " <p> As the film draws to a close , Kornwasser is back at his desk with his pen and pad . <p> " Dear courageous soldiers and brave brothers and sisters trapped in Gaza . Ten months have passed since my last letter to you . My mission to understand what makes you and our nation resilient has continued . Through meeting amazing individuals , I have learned about the force of survival , the force of positivity and bitachon , the force of song , the force of voice , and the force of pride . <p> " We can each find our own force and use it to make the Jewish nation strong and united . These forces come together in the most amazing way to produce a force of resilience . " <p> In the film 's credits , Kornwasser refers to his parents Laizer and Jessica as " the best mom and dad . " <p> " My parents have been absolutely amazing throughout the process -- the trip , recording in Israel , late-night feedback ... they have been the best ! " <p> Both are very proud of their son 's passion and his product . His mother says , " Hillel has been extremely devoted to this project since his visit to Israel last year . He feels passionately about sharing messages of resilience that stem from October 7 with his peers and the Jewish community . <p> " We are very proud of his commitment and perseverance in bringing this film to fruition . We are also proud of his sensitivity in speaking to those who went through difficult experiences and his focus on letting their voices be heard . " ? 
@@119448925 <h> Once obtained , the ETA-IL stays valid for up to two years , or until the traveler 's current passport expires -- whichever comes first . <p> Travellers at Ben Gurion International Airport where flights were being delayed , as the workers of the airport went on strike , in a protest for the release of Israelis held hostage by Hamas terrorists in Gaza , on September 2 , 202 ( photo credit : AVSHALOM SASSONI/MAARIV ) <p> As of January 2025 , visitors to Israel will need an ETA-IL -- an electronic travel authorization permit -- or visa , with the exception of Israeli citizens or those who have an identity number , the Population and Immigration Authority said on Monday . <p> Dual passport holders can travel to Israel with their foreign passports up until December 31 , 2025 , and then they will need an ETA-IL . <p> The ETA-IL permit costs NIS 25 NIS ( around $7 ) per person ; each individual planning on a visit must apply for one separately . <p> Once obtained , the ETA-IL remains valid for up to two years or until the traveler 's current passport expires -- whichever comes first . <p> This permit allows stays of up to 90 days in Israel . If a traveler wants to remain on longer , they must request an extension of stay at Israel 's Population and Immigration Authority.Ben Gurion Airport ( credit : YONATAN SINDEL/FLASH90 ) <h> The application process <p> The application for an ETA-IL permit is done online . Applicants must first provide personal details , including a full name , date of birth , and nationality . <p> Next , travel information , including the reason for the visits and the dates of stay , must be given . <p> This will be followed by a request for the applicant 's passport information and a clear photo . <p> Visitors apply for the ETA-IL several weeks before their planned trip to Israel and must have had a valid passport for at least six months . <p> The permit does not automatically guarantee entry . It allows a passenger to reach the border crossing . 
@@119448933 <h> Champaign District One Councilman Davion Williams apologized to Jewish leaders after his comments at the end of a December 17 City Council meeting . <p> An Illinois city councilman apologized last Tuesday for a council meeting speech he gave , in which he accused a cabal of Jews of controlling food , media , and music . He also claimed that elements of the Jewish faith informed a supposed genocide in Gaza . <p> Champaign District One Councilman Davion Williams apologized to Jewish leaders , according to a Friday statement from Champaign-Urbana Jewish Federation , Illini Chabad , Illini Hillel , and Sinai Temple . Williams 's comments were made at the end of a December 17 City Council meeting . <p> In response to a series of public comments demanding the city call for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza , Williams said , " There 's Jews , they 're gentiles , who believe in peace , but there 's a small group of people of have a lot of control over a whole lot . Over music , over our food , over media , over a whole lot of things . <p> " I love Pringles . They 're Kosher . I just found that out . I stopped eating them , " Williams said of the potato chip snack . <p> Williams assured that he did n't have anything against Jews or Israelis , but was commenting about an " element " in their population . He explained that the Jewish religion is against genocide because unlike Christianity , Jews are waiting for a Messiah . Those who " proclaim to be Jewish " and " follow along with this ... genocide " are " out of order , " he said . PRO-PALESTINIAN DEMONSTRATORS hold a rally at Columbia University in New York City on the first anniversary of the October 7 Hamas attack , last month . Europe is failing to control Islamic fundamentalism within its borders , and countries such as the United States , the UK , and Canada are following su ( credit : Mike Segar/Reuters ) <p> He continued , " The occupation of Israel and Palestine has been going on for a long time , since 1948 , " and proceeded to compare Palestinian indigeneity to that of Native Americans and South Africans , and that Black Americans are Native Americans because they have hybridized with them . <h> ' Sympathized with anti-Israel activists ' <p> The councilman said that while he sympathized with the anti-Israel activists who spoke at recent public comment periods , he indicated that he did n't believe that the council could influence the issue , comparing the cause to that of Black Lives Matter . <p> A BLM sign outside was performative , as cops were still shooting black Americans like " animals , " he explained . He also questioned calls for divestment , noting that vital minerals that came from war zones in African countries were used to make smartphones . <p> " Free Palestine , " Williams ended his speech . <p> Champaign-Urbana Jewish organizations said that , after meeting him last Monday , Williams apologized . The groups also said that Mayor Deborah Frank Feinen and other members of the Council " expressed disagreement with the statements made . " <p> " It is understandable that the tragic events of the war weigh heavily on all of us and inspire passionate responses . However , some of these remarks went beyond expressing grief or frustration -- they crossed a line and amplified harmful antisemitic stereotypes that are both false and damaging to our community , " the Jewish groups said in joint statements shared across social media . <p> The groups said that William 's comments perpetuated an " age-old antisemitic stereotype of Jewish domination in key industries " that had " historically fueled violence and discrimination against Jewish communities " by scapegoating Jews for " broader societal issues . " <p> Williams 's remarks about Kosher food were condemned by the Jewish groups , which explained that the dietary laws are a core Jewish religious practice with no relation to the Middle East conflict , and that calls for boycotting Kosher products evoked memories of Nazi German policies . <p> Williams was also criticized for creating a sense of otherization against Jews , and implying that Jewish religious beliefs are responsible for war or genocide . The group said that referring to Israel 's existence as " the occupation " denies Jewish indigeneity and the right to self-determination in their ancestral homeland . <p> The Jewish groups noted that over the past eight months , the council had seen protests related to Israel 's war with Hamas and Iran 's proxy groups and that many members of the Jewish and Israeli community felt that they had been verbally accosted during such meetings . <p> The December 17 meeting saw speakers that wore " End Israel Apartheid " stickers and keffiyehs . They demanded that the council adopt measures relating to the conflict , such as a resolution calling for " an immediate and permanent ceasefire in Palestine . " <p> Resident Stuart Levy explained that the resolution would call on the federal government to end all arms trade with Israel , refund the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East ( UNRWA ) , and adopt an investment policy that would prevent financial relationships with countries accused of war crimes . <p> " The Middle East war is escalating daily , " said Urbana-Champaign Jews for Ceasefire representative Al Kagan , who denounced Israel for bombing Syrian military sites and entering the Syrian Golan . " Will Israel be bombing Iran next ? " Kagan said that 46 local businesses and organizations support an arms embargo against Israel . <p> A man dressed in a top hat , wig , and fake beard to emulate the national personification " Uncle Sam " said that he was " tired of hearing " about an issue half a world away and that all the anti-Israel activists should be put on a list for associating with " political rapists , murderers , jerks . " <p> " Everybody 's concerned about genocide . I 'm for it . Kill the bastards , " said the so-called " Uncle Ken , " continuing that the Palestinians started the conflict and urged the council to tell the incoming US president to end the violence quickly and decisively until they begged for peace . <p> The Jewish groups on Friday denounced threats against protesters , clarifying that " the threats and devaluation of human life presented by the community member in public comments are unacceptable and stand in direct opposition to core Jewish values . These words do not represent the Jewish community . " 
@@119448934 <p> Vice Mayor Chelsea Byers , who was elected to serve as mayor as part of the City Council members ' annual rotation of positions and will be sworn in on January 13 , is listed as a member of Beautiful Trouble , which provides materials and education on protest and activist tactics and best practices to create a world without " capitalism and classism ; racism , white supremacy , Zionism , and colonialism ; patriarchy , sexism , and heterosexism ; ableism , ageism , sizeism , and other forms of oppression . " <p> Byer 's old West Hollywood city biography describes her as a " core team member with Beautiful Trouble , " but by December 18 , mention of the group was removed from the official background . Beautiful Trouble lists Byers as a former director of operations and as a current editor of its study guides and strategy card deck . <p> According to an independent search by The Jerusalem Post on the Internet Archive , Byers continued to be listed as director on the website until at least September . Byers was elected to West Hollywood City Council in 2022 and became Vice Mayor in January . <p> " As a facilitator , Chelsea has led hundreds of hours of training and curated countless professional and leadership development programs , " reads her current Beautiful Trouble biography . Students for Justice in Palestine organize mass protests on October 7 in the US ( credit : SCREENSHOT/X ) <h> Incorporated anti-Israel activity <p> The activist tactics taught by Beautiful Trouble often incorporate anti-Israel activity as an example or use stories of pro-Palestinian protest to highlight strategies . One such story , shared on the day after the October 7 massacre , explained how activists would fly to Ben-Gurion Airport and unfurl " Welcome to Palestine " to draw attention to Israeli denial of entries to anti-Israel actors . <p> Beautiful Trouble recommends the tactic of flotillas like the one involved in the MV Mavi Marmara incident , in which activists attacked naval commandos when they were boarded . Nine activists were killed and several IDF soldiers were wounded in the clash . In another tactic , Beautiful Trouble advocated for activists to engage in " currency hacking " using the example of anti-Israel activists defacing Israeli currency with the slogan " free Palestine . " <p> On October 19 and 23 , 2023 , the group shared on Instagram insights to guide action by anti-Israel activists . In February , it advised seeking divestment as a long-term campaign strategy in the vein of the BDS movement . <p> In May , it shared a " guide for lawful encampments " as a resource for activists who wished to start their own campus protest encampments . The group said that it drew upon its own experience from encampments in front of the Israeli embassy . <p> Besides encampments , Beautiful Trouble maintains a " resistance hotline " in collaboration with BlackOut Collective to provide tips and tools for organizing or doing effective actions . The " Get Up , Rise Up , Direct Action Fund " is a grant by Beautiful Trouble for initiatives that push for " a ceasefire , a safe return of Israeli hostages and release of the over 7,000 Palestinian political prisoners detained in Israeli prisons " and " an end to the blockade of Gaza , US ( and other foreign ) military aid to Israel , and the Israeli colonial and apartheid system . " <p> Byers 's anti-Israel activism far predates her involvement with Beautiful Trouble . According to the Northern Arizona University Students for Justice in Palestine Facebook page , the Vice Mayor is one of the founders and administrators . <p> " Northern Arizona University Students for Justice in Palestine is a diverse group of faculty , students , and community members who work in solidarity with , not on behalf of , Palestinians and Israelis that together continue to struggle for justice , human rights , self-determination , and liberation . Through educated discourse , advocacy , peaceful demonstration , and community engagement , we seek to shed light on the policies of discrimination and give voice to the silenced , " Byers declared the group 's mission statement in 2011 . <p> While NAU SJP claimed to have been " pro-Palestine " and " not anti-Israel " during " Israel Apartheid Week , " and the group described how it engaged in cross-community events with pro-Israel groups , it called for the boycott of Sabra and Tribe Humus from NAU and created projects like a magazine for IAW . <p> In another 2011 NAU SJP boycott , the group on X called on consumers to avoid purchasing Ahava beauty products , presaging Beautiful Trouble 's own advice about the " Stolen Beauty " campaign against the Israeli company . 
@@119448936 <h> The Wednesday incident saw the Palestine Action vandals riding the basket of cherry pickers while smashing and removing bricks from the wall of the UAV Engines Limited Lichfield District factory . <p> MEMBERS OF the Palestine Action Group gather in Sydney , in May . ' Pro-Palestine ' demonstrators are no longer able to make a moral distinction between justice and injustice , the writer says. ( photo credit : Alasdair Pal/Reuters ) <p> Five anti-Israel vandals were arrested on Christmas Day for attempting to tunnel through a Elbit Systems-linked UK factory wall using hammers and chisels , according to the Staffordshire Police and Palestine Action . <p> The Wednesday incident saw the Palestine Action vandals riding the basket of cherry pickers while smashing and removing bricks from the wall of the UAV Engines Limited Lichfield District factory , according to footage published by the activist group . The cherry picker 's cabs were barricaded with barbed wire and metal grates to prevent police from entering the vehicles . <p> In videos posted by Palestine Action on Instagram , police and security could be seen observing the vandals damage the Shenstone parish facility . Eventually , police managed to drag away the recalcitrant vandals . <p> The five vandals aged between 20 to 60 were released on bail , police said , investigations continued into alleged crimes including aggravated trespass , criminal damage to property , conspiring to destroy or damage property , and locking onto an object to cause serious disruption . <p> Palestine Action celebrated the release of their activists , sharing a video on Thursday of the suspects holding a Palestinian flag while chanting , " From the river to the sea , Palestine will be free , " and that " Palestine is Arab . " <p> The vandals targeted UAV Engines Limited because of its affiliation with Israeli defense firm Elbit . Several officers are listed on a UK government registry as having an Elbit correspondence address . <p> " With over a year of an escalation of genocide in Gaza and over 76 years of occupation , it 's up to ordinary people to take direct action to end our complicity , " Palestine Action wrote on social media on Wednesday . " No matter the amount of state repression , we will continue to resist for the Palestinian people . Ultimately , we will complete our mission of bringing an end to Elbit 's presence in Britain . " <p> One of the activists claimed that the UAVs were part of " the UK 's campaign " to bomb innocent people in Lebanon , Yemen , and Gaza . <h> Previous targeting of the site <p> This is not the first time the site has been targeted by anti-Israel activists . On November 25 , police said offers arrested two women suspected of a " lock-on " protest , after responding to calls stating that the entrance of the factory had been " being blocked off . " According to Palestine Action , two activists were arrested after they locked themselves into a car to blockade the facility gates . <p> On Friday , Bryn Higgs , 60 , arrived at North Staffordshire Justice Centre and was taken into custody for his protests at the same factory on July 31 . The Ullapool resident was charged with locking onto an object to cause serious disruption , conspiring to destroy or damage property , and criminal property damage . <p> Since 2020 , Palestine Action has engaged in a vandalism campaign against Israel-linked businesses and organizations to pressure companies to terminate their relationships with Israel . 
@@119457932 <h> The Most Dangerous People on the Internet in 2024 <p> From Elon Musk and Donald Trump to state-sponsored hackers and crypto scammers , this was the year the online agents of chaos gained ground . <p> ILLUSTRATION : GRAPHICS BY JAMES MARSHALL ; WIRED STAFF ; GETTY <p> For its entire existence as a global medium , the internet 's evolution has been caught in a tug of war , pulled by opposing forces : on one side , moderation and control ; on the other , disruption and anarchy . <p> This year , the most prominent actors weighing in on the side of disruption were familiar faces : The reckless oligarchs , cybercriminals , scammers , and state-sponsored hackers who made the internet feel particularly dangerous in 2024 were , to some degree , the same forces destabilizing the online world in 2023 . But perhaps more than in any other recent year , those agents of chaos seemed to persist in the face of opposition , to grow in their influence -- and to win . <p> From Elon Musk 's completed remake of X in his own tech-bro image to Trump 's disinformation-fueled campaign , to Russia 's ongoing cyberattacks against Ukraine , to China 's relentless onslaught of digital intrusions and crypto scammers ' global spread , the online experience of 2024 was messy , hazardous , and Hobbesian . And for the most part , the people who made it that way are poised to exert even more influence over the year to come . <p> As we do every year , WIRED has assembled a list of the most dangerous people , groups , and organizations on the internet . Here are our picks for 2024 . <h> Elon Musk <p> After years of evolution from entrepreneur to edgelord , Musk seemed to reach his final form this year in the run-up to November 's US election . Once a technologist with ambiguous politics who occasionally pursued public arguments against scuba divers , Musk now uses his megaphone of 200-million-plus followers on X , the social media platform he fully controls , to broadcast an unrelenting stream of anti-regulation , anti-immigrant , anti-transgender , anti-press , anti-progressive talking points . He 's amplified and repeated disinformation , like claims after the disastrous damage done by Hurricanes Helene and Milton that the Federal Emergency Management Agency ( FEMA ) was hoarding supplies or had spent its budget on migrants instead of needy Americans . He 's repeated debunked theories about voter fraud and immigrants swinging elections . In at least one case , he 's even seemed to drop a reference that suggest support for the QAnon movement , which maintains bizarre theories about satanic pedophile rings that only Donald Trump can destroy . <p> Meanwhile , Musk continues to push his AI startup , xAI , toward one of the most no-holds-barred visions of what that technology can make possible , with little regard for safety or preventing its use for disinformation . The company this year launched new image-generation capabilities in its Grok tool that were immediately used to create images of copyrighted characters , celebrities , and political figures in compromising or sexual positions . Musk himself at one point posted an AI-generated deepfake of Kamala Harris that mocked her with her own voice -- with no annotation that it was not authentic -- that received 150 million views . <p> More than any particular political message or technology he 's pushed , however , the danger Musk represents is simply that the richest man in the world can buy one of the internet 's most vital media platforms , then use it , along with hundreds of millions of dollars in donations , to elect the president of his choosing and shape US policy . After Trump 's election , Musk was rewarded with hundreds of billions more in net worth . The system , in other words , is working -- for oligarchs like Elon Musk . <h> Donald Trump <p> For the next four years , Donald Trump will once again be the most powerful single person in the world . This year , he was just a very loud one . On social media platforms like X -- where Musk reinstated Trump 's account despite a 2021 ban following his incitement of the January 6 storming of the US Capitol -- and Trump 's own Truth Social , he lit fires with false claims that arguably helped fuel his path to political victory . Like Musk , he made and repeated falsehoods such as FEMA spending its budget on immigrants rather than hurricane victims , or that immigrants were stealing and eating pets . By converting Robert F. Kennedy Jr . from a third-party candidate to an endorsing ally , Trump also reciprocally endorsed RFK Jr . ' s long-running stream of anti-vaccine misinformation , rhetoric that has led to childhood vaccine rates now dipping to a lower level than before the Covid-19 pandemic . <p> Once his second term in office begins , Trump is poised to use digital surveillance to carry out a highly disruptive and even vindictive agenda : He 's promised mass deportations of millions of immigrants starting on day one of his administration , and he 's vowed to target political opponents and journalists with prosecution . There 's little doubt that Trump will top this list in 2025 . But in 2024 , his words alone represent a clear and present danger . <h> Volt Typhoon <p> In the cybersecurity world , the last months of 2024 have been dominated by warnings from public officials about a Chinese state-sponsored hacking group known as Salt Typhoon , which has penetrated at least eight telecoms , in some cases accessing the real-time calls and texts of Americans . But in the midst of that cyberespionage scandal , a different , far more dangerous digital threat from China still quietly looms : A Chinese state-sponsored group called Volt Typhoon spent much of 2024 continuing its stealthy campaign to breach US critical infrastructure facilities -- not to spy on communications , but to prepare for a potential cyberattack . While headlines about Volt Typhoon have largely dissipated since it was first called out and named by Microsoft in May of 2023 , officials warn that the group continues to " pre-position " itself inside of networks that appear to be chosen for maximum disruption , perhaps timed to a Chinese invasion of Taiwan . Given that Chinese head of state Xi Jinping has told his country 's military to be prepared for that invasion by 2027 , now is the time to head off the digital salient of what could be a world-shaking future war . <h> Sandworm <p> While Volt Typhoon prepares , Sandworm attacks . The Russian hacking group , a unit of the country 's GRU military intelligence agency , has in fact carried out many of the most disruptive cyberattacks of the past decade . Those attacks -- mostly in Ukraine -- include at least three blackouts triggered by its hacking , the destructive NotPetya malware that spread around the globe and inflicted $10 billion in damage , and countless data-destroying breaches that the group has carried out since the beginning of Russia 's full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022 . In 2024 , as Russia fought Ukraine to a stalemate or regained territory in the east of the country , Sandworm continued to project its power beyond that front : Security firm StrikeReady discovered Sandworm targeting Ukraine 's energy sector again this fall , perhaps in preparation for another round of electrical utility hacking , either to carry out its own attacks or as reconnaissance for the Russian military 's now-annual physical bombing of Ukraine 's grid . <h> Israeli Military and Intelligence <p> Last year , WIRED named both the IDF and Hamas on this list , a nod to each side 's use of the internet in its propaganda efforts in the war in Gaza following Hamas ' October 7 attack . This year , with Israel 's adversaries in that conflict like Hamas and Hezbollah significantly weakened and in retreat , it 's the Israeli forces that remain on the offensive . Israel 's military continues to use AI tooling to identify targets for bombs as its strikes have killed tens of thousands of Gazan civilians and leveled entire cities in the territory . Israeli missiles continue to intermittently knock out Gaza 's communications infrastructure , destroying 80 percent of the country 's top telecom 's cell towers and leading to information blackouts amid the destruction and starvation of that now year-plus siege . Add to all of that a still-mysterious Israeli supply chain attack that hid lethal explosives in pagers and walkie-talkies in an effort to target Hezbollah operatives , which led to immediate distrust of all communications devices in the country , and Israel 's government forces remain an internet apex predator by any definition . <h> Black Cat/AlphV/RansomHub <p> Ransomware in 2024 was , again , one of the most abhorrent forms of cybercrime to blight the internet . But few ransomware attacks in history have been quite as dangerous and damaging as the one that targeted UnitedHealthcare subsidiary Change Healthcare early this year , carried out by a ransomware group known as Black Cat or AlphV . Even after extracting a $22 million ransom from the company -- a payment processor that handles around 40 percent of all health care insurance claims across the US -- the hackers ' disruption of Change 's network continued to prevent the company from completing payments to pharmacies , clinics , health care practices , and hospitals across the country for weeks , causing some to even go out of business . Then , as if it had n't inflicted enough chaos , AlphV ran off with Change 's ransom money instead of sharing it with a group of hackers with whom it had partnered to infiltrate the company . That led the jilted hackers to share the data stolen from Change Healthcare with another , newer ransomware crew called RansomHub , which extorted the company a second time -- an unprecedented health care cybersecurity debacle . <h> The Com <p> Even in an age of state-sponsored Chinese cyberspies , Russian hacker saboteurs , and ransomware gangs , nihilistic young hackers remain a constant in the darker corners of the internet . And few of those corners are as dark as the ones frequented by the Com . The loose movement of online trolls and criminals who operate under the Com banner in channels on Telegram and Discord , many just in their teens , engage in some of the most despicable digital crimes possible , from petty crypto theft and ransomware to sextortion , harassment , and the creation and trade of child sexual abuse material . This year , several members of a Com subgroup of ransomware hackers known as Scattered Spider were arrested , following their alleged high-profile 2023 attacks on companies including Caesar 's Entertainment and MGM Resorts . But other members of the group are allegedly responsible for the serial breaches of well over a hundred customers of the cloud provider Snowflake . It 's a safe bet that the Com will continue to serve as a haven for plenty more criminal acts to come . <h> Data Brokers <p> Once , privacy fears centered on government agencies like the FBI and NSA and their ability to carry out mass surveillance worldwide . Now , increasingly , we give away that same surveillance data en masse to companies you 've never heard of . This year , it came to light that several data brokers collect and then sell access to Americans ' highly granular location data pulled from their phones . Surveillance services like Babel Street 's LocateX allegedly can -- and do -- track visitors to sensitive locations abortion clinic or mosques . A data broker called Near Intelligence left a vast cache of location data exposed online , revealing the movements of hundreds of visitors to sex trafficker Jeffrey Epstein 's island in the Caribbean . Reporting on both companies has demonstrated how much private location data our devices leave behind as revelatory digital detritus , and how the possession of that data now extends far beyond government agencies to little-known firms with highly questionable privacy and security practices . <h> Character.AI <p> If 2023 was the year that AI tools future-shocked the internet with their seemingly abrupt rise to prominence , 2024 was the year that those tools became normalized , quietly settling into common use in spite of all their alleged flaws and ethical problems . Yet those issues are still there , and perhaps no startup better exemplifies them than Character.AI , an AI firm backed by $2.7 billion in investment from Google . According to lawsuits filed in Texas and Florida against the company , its chatbots have encouraged children to engage in self-harm and violence against their parents , and allegedly contributed to 14-year-old dying by suicide . Other chatbots hosted by the company have allegedly coached kids into developing eating disorders , role-playing as school shooters , and even seemed to be sexually grooming them . Despite repeatedly vowing to implement age restrictions , no meaningful age safeguards appear to have been added even now , according to news outlet Futurism . If this is the future of artificial intelligence , the AI era is going to be a dark age indeed . <h> Crypto Scammers <p> The crypto-based investment scams known as " pig butchering " -- a term experts now say should be retired because it can further harm victims -- pulled in a staggering $37 billion in 2023 , and likely more in 2024 . The victims of that explosively growing form of crimes are n't just those who fall for its scams and lose their life savings , but also many of the perpetrators of the scams themselves : As many as 200,000 people have been enslaved in compounds across Southeast Asia and forced to carry out the fraud schemes . In some cases , they 've been kept in electrified shackles and faced threats of cattle prods and beatings from the gangs overseeing their work . This year , the dystopia those scammers have ushered in has begun to spread worldwide , with operations cropping up in the Middle East , Eastern Europe , Latin America , and West Africa . The targets of their fraud , of course , are even more global . Crypto scams have already become a top-tier form of cybercrime , and there 's no end in sight to the expansion of this predatory underworld industry . <p> When programmer Micah Lee was kicked off X for a post that offended Elon Musk , he did n't look back . His new tool for saving and deleting your X posts can give you that same sweet release . <p> Andy Greenberg <p> WIRED is where tomorrow is realized . It is the essential source of information and ideas that make sense of a world in constant transformation . The WIRED conversation illuminates how technology is changing every aspect of our lives -- from culture to business , science to design . The breakthroughs and innovations that we uncover lead to new ways of thinking , new connections , and new industries . 
@@119473528 <p> Aviva Siegel , who was held hostage by Hamas for 51 days , tells ' Fox &amp; Friends ' about her husband , who is still being held in captivity in Gaza , and recounts the harrowing experiences she witnessed during the terror attacks of Oct. 7 , 2023 . <p> Freed Hamas hostage Aviva Siegel is desperate to see her husband Keith brought home alive more than 450 days after attackers abducted him on Oct. 7 , 2023 . <p> Speaking to " Fox &amp; Friends " on Tuesday , Siegel sent a message to President-elect Donald Trump to deliver him and other remaining hostages from " hell " as he prepares for his White House return . <p> Aviva Siegel , an Israeli hostage who was held for 51 days , speaks about her husband , Keith Siegel , who is still being held by Hamas , during a vigil on the National Mall on July 23 , 2024 , in Washington , D.C. ( Photo by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images ) <p> " Please , please the new year is coming , and I want Keith to come back and for me to say , ' Happy New Year , Keith . Happy New Year to all the hostages . ' They deserve to come out of hell ... the whole world is just waiting to see the strongest nation in the world the U.S. -- how strong they are . They need to be stronger and to get them out now . " <p> Siegel , who was also seized when Hamas terrorists launched their initial attacks on Israel , was freed after 51 days while Keith was left behind . <p> She frequently wears a shirt with his portrait on the front and the words " Bring Them Home Now " printed on the back , a reminder of the cause she champions daily . <p> " Keith is the most sweetest , loving person on earth . He 's very proud to be American , and he 's waiting to get out of Gaza , " she said . <p> " He 's there suffering underneath the ground in the worst conditions anybody could ever handle , and Keith is so sensitive . He 's just waiting and keeping alive to come back to his family and his grandchildren that love him so much and ca n't wait for him to come back . " <p> At least seven of the approximately 100 hostages remaining in Gaza are Americans , and their future remains uncertain as the new year looms . Trump promised " all hell to pay " if Hamas fails to set the captives free before he assumes office on Jan. 20 , giving the terror group just over 20 days to heed his demand . <p> Siegel says no human being should be forced to go through what she had to endure under Hamas ' thumb . <p> " No human being should be thrown underneath the ground for more than 450 days . They are Americans , some of them . Keith is an American , and they need to get him out . They 've suffered enough , " she said . <p> " Think about the girls just waiting to be raped again and for Keith just waiting to be beaten up into pieces again or to be starved or to be threatened or to be thrown out underneath the ground with no oxygen , I was there . I nearly died . I 'm lucky . I 'm lucky to be sitting here alive because I know that that place is dangerous . It 's very dangerous , and no war should continue in any place in the world . We should stop . Killing people is n't right . People should learn . We want to learn not to die . " <h> Fox News First <p> Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox . <p> Arrives Weekdays <p> By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button , you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use , and agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News . You understand that you can opt-out at any time . 
@@119473623 <p> Countries around the world are ringing in the New Year Tuesday , with celebrations briefly outshining conflict in some parts of the globe . <p> Nations in the South Pacific Ocean were the first to wave goodbye to 2024 . Midnight in New Zealand is 18 hours ahead of Eastern Time . <p> Across Asia , millions readied for the Year of the Snake , seen as the year of rebirth in the Asian zodiac . <p> In Japan , which observes the zodiac cycle from Jan. 1 , stores were seen selling snake-themed products while temples and homes underwent a thorough cleaning before much of the nation shut down in celebration . <p> Thailand had fireworks nationwide , including a show in Bangkok with the city 's Chao Phraya River as a beautiful scenic backdrop . The country 's tourism board livestreamed its celebration on YouTube , with musical performances in the lead up to the midnight finale . <p> Fireworks light up the Sydney Harbour Bridge and Sydney Opera House during the early New Year 's Eve celebrations.David Gray / AFP - Getty Images <p> The mood was somber in South Korea after Sunday 's Jeju Air flight crash at Muan that killed 179 people . Most celebrations were cut back or canceled while the country observed a period of nationalmourning . <p> In Israel , New Years is marked by the War in Gaza entering its 15th month . Scores of hostages remain in captivity under Hamas , while more than 45,000 civilians have died in Gaza since the fighting began , according to the Hamas-run health ministry . <p> Lebanon is reeling from a years-long severe economic crisis and heavy damage after Israel launched an offensive on the militant group Hezbollah in early September . <p> Many Syrians , meanwhile , are expressing cautious optimism for the coming year after the overthrow of dictator Bashar al-Assad . <p> But a stormy forecast is expected to dampen the mood in many parts of the United Kingdom . <p> Heavy rain and winds forecasted for Scotland have prompted the cancelation of Edinburgh 's famous Hogmanay celebrations , which usually include a street party , a rock concert and fireworks . <p> London , meanwhile , will celebrate with a parade through the city center featuring 10,000 performers , while fireworks will be staged over Westminster and Big Ben along the River Thames . <p> In Brazil , Rio de Janeiro is expected to host more than 2 million people along Copacabana Beach to watch fireworks erupt from ferries parked offshore and concerts by Brazilian popstars like Anitta and Caetano Veloso . <p> Auckland , New Zealand , was one of the first cities to welcome the new year as thousands thronged downtown or climbed the city 's ring of volcanic peaks for a fireworks vantage point -- and a light display recognizing Auckland 's Indigenous tribes . <p> In Australia two hours later , more than 1 million people gathered at the Sydney harbor for the traditional fireworks . Some partygoers , eager to secure a good vantage point , arrived nearly 20 hours ahead . Later , in Malaysia 's capital Kuala Lumpur , spectacular fireworks were launched near the city 's famous Petronas Towers . <p> Celebrations kicked off at 9 p.m. local time ( 5 a.m . ET ) , with the first display of fireworks created by the Indigenous group We Are Warriors . At midnight , a second display over the Harbour Bridge lasted close to 20 minutes and was viewed on television by nearly 25 million people around the world . <p> In all , it takes 26 hours for the entire world to welcome the New Year across 39 different local time zones . <p> Astha Rajvanshi <p> Astha Rajvanshi is a reporter for NBC News Digital , based in London . Previously , she worked as a staff writer covering international news for TIME . 
@@119473936 <h> Alleged abuses and psychological harm to Palestinian detainees in Israeli prisons and camps are in renewed focus amid stepped-up efforts in December by international mediators to secure a ceasefire . <p> Photos of Obaiyat taken before his incarceration show a powerfully-built man . <p> Cairo : <p> Once muscular and strong , Palestinian bodybuilder Moazaz Obaiyat 's nine-month spell in Israeli custody left him unable to walk unaided upon his release in July . Then , in an October pre-dawn raid on his home , soldiers detained him again . <p> Before being re-arrested , the 37-year-old father of five was diagnosed with severe PTSD by Bethlehem Psychiatric Hospital , related to his time at Israel 's remote Ktz'iot prison , according to medical notes seen by Reuters from the hospital , a public clinic in the occupied West Bank . <p> The notes said Obaiyat was subjected to " physical and psychological violence and torture " in prison and described symptoms including severe anxiety , withdrawal from his family and avoidance of discussion of traumatic events and current affairs . <p> Alleged abuses and psychological harm to Palestinian detainees in Israeli prisons and camps are in renewed focus amid stepped-up efforts in December by international mediators to secure a ceasefire that could see the release of thousands of inmates detained during the Gaza war and before , in return for Israeli hostages held by the Palestinian group Hamas in Gaza . <p> In the event of the release of detainees in any future deal , many " will require long-term medical care to recover from the physical and psychological abuse they have endured , " said Qadoura Fares , head of the Palestinian Commission for Detainees and Ex-Detainees Affairs , a government body in the West Bank . Fares said he was aware of Obaiyat 's case . <p> For this story , Reuters spoke to four Palestinian men detained by Israel since the war 's outbreak after the Hamas attacks of Oct. 7 , 2023 . All were held for months , accused of affiliating with an illegal organisation , and released without being formally charged or convicted of any crime . <p> All described lasting psychological scars they attributed to abuses including beatings , sleep and food deprivation and prolonged restraint in stress positions during their time inside . Reuters could not independently verify the conditions in which they were held . <p> Their accounts are consistent with multiple investigations by human rights groups that reported grave abuses of Palestinians in Israeli detention . <p> An investigation published by the United Nations human rights office in August described substantiated reports of widespread " torture , sexual assault and rape , amid atrocious inhumane conditions " in prisons since the war began . The U.N . office has also said Hamas ' Oct. 7 attacks could amount to war crimes and crimes against humanity . <p> The White House has called the reports of torture , rape and abuse in Israel 's prisons " deeply concerning . " <p> In response to Reuters questions , the Israeli military said it was investigating several cases of alleged abuse of Gazan detainees by military personnel but " categorically " rejected allegations of systematic abuse within its detention facilities . <p> The military declined to comment on individual cases . The Israel Prison Service ( IPS ) , which falls under hard-right national security minister Itamar Ben-Gvir , and the country 's internal security service said they were not in a position to comment on individual cases . <p> " Terrorists in Israeli prisons are granted supervised living conditions and accommodations appropriate for criminals , " Ben Gvir 's office said in response to Reuters questions , adding that the facilities operate in accordance with the law . " The ' summer camp ' is over , " Ben Gvir 's office said . <p> Tal Steiner , executive director of the Israeli rights group Public Committee Against Torture in Israel ( PCATI ) , said the symptoms the men recounted were common and can echo through victims ' lifetimes , often shattering their families . <p> " Torture in Israeli prisons has exploded since October 7 . It will have and already has had a devastating effect on Palestinian society , " said Steiner . <p> Speaking from his hospital bed in July , a severely emaciated Obaiyat called the treatment of himself and fellow prisoners " disgusting , " showing scars on his wasted legs and describing isolation , hunger , handcuffs and abuse with metal rods , without giving details . <p> Photos of Obaiyat taken before his incarceration show a powerfully-built man . <p> On Dec. 19 , Israel 's High Court ordered the state to answer a petition brought by rights groups about the lack of adequate food for Palestinian prisoners . <p> Israel has also reported mistreatment of some of the 251 of its citizens taken captive to Gaza after the Hamas attacks . A report by the Israeli Health Ministry , published on Saturday said hostages were subjected to torture , including sexual and psychological abuse . Hamas has repeatedly denied abuse of the hostages . <p> WITHOUT CHARGE <p> Obaiyat is currently being held in a small detention centre in Etzion , south of Bethlehem , according to the Palestinian Prisoners ' Club , an advocacy group . <p> He is being held for six months under " administrative detention " , a form of incarceration without charge or trial , and the official reason for his arrest is unknown , the group said . Israel 's military , internal security service and prison service did not respond to questions about his specific case . <p> PCATI said at least 56 Palestinians had died in custody during the war , compared to just one or two annually in the years preceding the conflict . Israel 's military said it launches criminal investigations of all deaths of Palestinians in its custody . <p> Palestinian prisoner numbers have at least doubled in Israel and the West Bank to more than 10,000 during the war , PCATI estimates , based on court documents and data obtained through freedom of information requests . <p> Through the course of the war , around 6,000 Gazans have been incarcerated , the Israeli military said in response to a query from Reuters . <p> Unlike Palestinians from the West Bank who are held under military law , Palestinians from Gaza are held in Israel under its Unlawful Combatants Law . <p> The law has been used to hold people incommunicado , deny them their rights as prisoners of war or as prisoners under military occupation , and incarcerate them for extended periods without charge or trial , according to Professor Neve Gordon , an Israeli scholar who specialises in human rights and international law at London 's Queen Mary University . <p> The Palestinian Prisoners ' Club likened the detentions to forced disappearance . <p> Israel 's prison service declined to comment on prisoner numbers and deaths . <p> SDE TEIMAN CAMP <p> Fadi Ayman Mohammad Radi , 21 , a former engineering student from Khan Younis , Gaza , was one of a couple dozen Palestinians released at the Kerem Shalom crossing into Gaza on Aug. 20 . <p> Radi described struggling to stretch out his limbs after being cuffed and chained for four months at Israel 's Sde Teiman military detention camp , officially a temporary prisoner sorting facility . <p> " They did n't interrogate us , they destroyed us , " said Radi . <p> Located in the Negev desert , Sde Teiman has been the site of grave abuses including rape , according to allegations by whistleblowers among the camp 's guards . <p> Israel is currently investigating what the U.N called " a particularly gruesome case " of alleged sexual abuse at Sde Teiman in which five soldiers are accused of anally penetrating a detainee with a rod that punctured his internal organs . <p> Radi said he was beaten repeatedly and arbitrarily , permanently restrained and blindfolded , hung up in stress positions and forced to sit on the floor almost constantly without moving . <p> At one point , he said he was deprived of sleep for five consecutive days in a space he said Israeli soldiers called the ' disco room , ' subjected to loud music . He did not describe sexual violence . <p> Radi said he found it difficult to sleep and that even talking about his ordeal made him relive it . <p> " Every time I say the words , I visualise the torture , " said Radi , who was arrested by Israeli soldiers in Gaza on March 4 . <p> Reuters could not independently verify his story . The Israeli military said it was unable to comment , saying it could not find Radi 's files because Reuters was unable to provide his ID number . <p> Despite a government decision to phase out Sde Teiman , the camp is still operational , PCATI said . <p> OFER AND KTZ'IOT <p> Widespread abuses have also been reported at more established facilities , such as the Ktz'iot prison , also in the Negev , and Ofer military camp , south of Ramallah in the West Bank . <p> After collating evidence and testimony from 55 former Palestinian prisoners , Israeli rights group B'Tselem earlier this year released a report accusing Israel of deliberately turning the prison system into a ' network of torture camps ' . <p> Human rights scholar Gordon likened what he said was the use of torture in Israel 's prisons to terrorism . <p> " Terrorism usually is an act that 's limited in the number of people directly impacted , but the psychosocial effect is dramatic . It 's the same with torture , " said Gordon , who co-edited a book on abuses in the Israeli prison system . <p> ( Except for the headline , this story has not been edited by NDTV staff and is published from a syndicated feed. ) 
@@119474027 <h> US launches multiple strikes on Houthi targets in Yemen <p> The US military made multiple strikes against the Houthi rebels in Yemen , the latest escalation against the Iran-backed terror group plaguing the Red Sea . <p> American Navy ships and aircraft targeted Houthi command posts and weapons depots Monday and Tuesday , destroying the facilities that have been attacking military and merchant vessels in the region , according to US Central Command . <p> The strikes were focused on the capital city of Sana'a and coastal locations around the Houthi-controlled territory in Yemen , including " advanced conventional weapon ( ACW ) production and storage facilities . " <p> The US launched multiple attacks against Houthi targets in Yemen . U.S. Central Command <p> " These facilities were used in Houthi operations , such as attacks against U.S. Navy warships and merchant vessels in the southern Red Sea and Gulf of Aden , " CENTCOM said in a statement . <p> US Navy and Air Force aircraft also destroyed a Houthi coastal radar site and seven cruise missiles , the statement added . <p> CENTCOM said the strikes were part of the US military 's efforts to crack down on the Houthis ' attacks in the region , which began last year in solidarity with Hamas following Israel 's incursion in Gaza . <p> The rebels have repeatedly attacked cargo and tanker ships traveling through the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden , and have launched missiles and drones at US forces stationed in the region . <p> Houthi spokesperson Mohammed Abdulsalam condemned the US strikes in Sana'a , and said the rebel forces would continue to defend themselves against American forces . <p> " " The US aggression on Yemen is a blatant violation of the sovereignty of an independent state , and blatant support for Israel to encourage it to continue its crimes of genocide against the people of Gaza , " Abdulsalam said in a statement . <p> The strikes targeted Houthi weapons depots and other hubs where they launched attacks against international shipping . U.S. Central Command <p> Israel Defense Forces warplanes hit key infrastructure like Sana'a International Airport -- which is controlled by the Iran-backed terror group -- in the Yemeni capital as well as power plants in Aziz and Ras Cantib . <p> The strike on the airport allegedly came within " a few meters " of where World Health Organization Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus and his team were boarding their plane , according to the WHO chief . 
@@119474230 <h> Six of the biggest moments in the House after a history-making 2024 <p> In a year that no one will soon forget , there were several historic moments in the House of Representatives in 2024 to cap off a somewhat chaotic two years under Republican leadership . <p> There was no shortage of headline-grabbing interactions among lawmakers in the 118th Congress , and members have also dealt with unprecedented moments on the presidential campaign trail that led to historic firsts in terms of legislation and investigations . <p> But aside from the history-making moments , the House also notched one of its least productive years in recent memory -- setting the stage for Republicans to hit the ground running when they control both chambers of Congress and the White House next year . <p> Here 's a breakdown of some of the biggest and , in some cases , lowest moments from this year . <p> President-elect Donald Trump 's nominee to be attorney general , former Rep. Matt Gaetz , center , and Vice President-elect J.D. Vance , left , walk out of a meeting with Republican Senate Judiciary Committee members at the Capitol in Washington on Wednesday , Nov. 20 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Ben Curtis ) <h> 1 . Gaetz resigns from Congress amid ethics scandal <p> One of the biggest stories out of Congress this year came when former Rep. Matt Gaetz announced on Nov. 16 that he would resign from the House and would not be sworn in next year . <p> His resignation came just hours after President-elect Donald Trump tapped Gaetz to serve as his attorney general , a shock announcement for lawmakers on both sides of the aisle . However , the timing raised eyebrows as it came just days before the House Ethics Committee had planned to vote on whether to release a " highly damaging " report about him . <p> Since April 2021 , the House Ethics Committee has been investigating allegations the Florida lawmaker may have " engaged in sexual misconduct and illicit drug use , accepted improper gifts , dispensed special privileges and favors to individuals with whom he had a personal relationship , and sought to obstruct government investigations of his conduct . " <p> Gaetz dropped his attorney general bid a week later , and he has since announced he will be launching a show on One America News Network next year . However , his resignation did not shield him from the report 's release , as the committee voted quietly to release its findings . <p> Rep.-elect Sarah McBride ( D-DE ) poses for a photo as she stands on the Capitol steps in Washington on Friday , Nov. 15 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Mark Schiefelbein ) <h> 2 . House to welcome its first transgender member of Congress ... and bathrooms get rules <p> The House is set to welcome its first transgender member of Congress after Rep.-elect Sarah McBride ( D-DE ) won the race to fill Delaware 's sole House seat in November . <p> Although McBride has not yet been sworn in , her victory has already set off a firestorm of debate on who can use which bathrooms on Capitol Hill . Shortly after the November elections , Rep. Nancy Mace ( R-SC ) introduced a bill banning transgender people from using single-sex bathroom facilities -- a targeted attack against her newest colleague . <p> Speaker Mike Johnson ( R-LA ) later responded to the controversy by establishing a House policy banning transgender people from using restrooms that do not align with their sex assigned at birth . Johnson told reporters that has always been the " unofficial policy " but has now been put in writing for clarity . <p> " Let me be unequivocally clear : A man is a man , and a woman is a woman , and a man can not become a woman , " Johnson told reporters last month . " That said , I also believe that 's what Scripture teaches , what I just said , but I also believe that we treat everybody with dignity ... and I believe all those things at the same time , and I wanted to make that clear for everybody because there 's lots of questions , but that 's where I stand . " <p> It remains unclear what punishments could ensue if someone is found in violation of the policy . However , in the past , leadership has resorted to fining members , such as former House Speaker Nancy Pelosi ( D-CA ) , setting up $5,000 fines for first offenses and $10,000 for second offenses for members who refused to walk through metal detectors after the Jan. 6 , 2021 , attack on the Capitol . <p> McBride , while emphasizing she disagrees with the policy , said she would comply with Johnson 's rule . <p> Hunter Biden , the son of President Joe Biden , is seen during an event to celebrate the U.S. Olympic and Paralympic teams on the South Lawn of the White House on Monday , Sept. 30 , 2024 . ( Tom Williams/CQ-Roll Call , Inc via Getty Images ) <h> 3 . House releases long-awaited report on Hunter Biden <p> The House released its highly anticipated investigation on Hunter Biden over the summer , a lengthy report that largely fell upon deaf ears as it was published after President Joe Biden had already dropped out of the presidential race . <p> The House Oversight and Judiciary committees spent two years investigating the Biden family in an attempt to impeach Joe Biden . The report was released on Aug. 19 with little fanfare after lawmakers failed to uncover definitive evidence tying Joe Biden to criminal activity or any misconduct that constitutes a high crime or misdemeanor . <p> Although that investigation ended without much consequence , House Republicans have left the door open on whether they 'd continue looking into the Biden family . House Oversight Committee Chairman James Comer ( R-KY ) told theWashington Examiner earlier this month the panel could call Hunter Biden back for more testimony next year , noting that lawmakers could get information they did not have previously . <p> Because Joe Biden pardoned his son before leaving office , Hunter Biden could be restricted in invoking his Fifth Amendment rights in future depositions as he no longer faces criminal repercussions for federal crimes committed during the period covered in his pardon . <p> At least one member of the Judiciary Committee , Rep. Andy Biggs ( R-AZ ) , has floated a Hunter Biden return as a possibility . <p> " Thanks to his father 's pardon , Hunter Biden has waived his Fifth Amendment protections , " Biggs said in a post on X. " I look forward to bringing Hunter back in -- under oath -- to get some real answers from him . He can run from the truth , but he ca n't hide forever . " <p> Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas speaks during a press briefing at the White House on Friday , Sept. 24 , 2021 , in Washington , D.C. ( AP Photo/Patrick Semansky ) <p> The vote passed on Republicans ' second attempt on Feb. 13 , mustering through in a narrow 214-213 margin . Lawmakers impeached Mayorkas on two articles , charging the top border official with willful and systemic refusal to comply with the law and a breach of the public trust related to his handling of the border crisis . <p> " He 's guilty of aiding and abetting the complete invasion of our country by criminals , gang members , terrorists , murderers , rapists , and over 10 million people from over 160 countries into American communities all across the United States , " Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene ( R-GA ) , who introduced the articles , said during a floor speech on Feb. 6 . <p> The first attempt failed to pass the House due to narrow margins in the House , but GOP leaders brought the articles to the floor for a second vote a week later . Only three Republicans joined all Democrats in rejecting the articles of impeachment : Reps . Ken Buck ( R-CO ) , Mike Gallagher ( R-WI ) , and Tom McClintock ( R-CA ) . <p> When the articles of impeachment reached the Senate more than two months later , the Democratic-led chamber did n't bother to hold a trial , effectively ending the impeachment . <p> Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky arrives for the 79th session of the United Nations General Assembly on Tuesday , Sept. 24 , 2024 , at U.N . headquarters . ( AP Photo/Stefan Jeremiah ) <p> After months of negotiations , the House approved a multibillion-dollar bill providing funds to Ukraine , Israel , and other allies on April 20 -- marking the only foreign aid supplemental Congress passed over the last year . <p> The aid package allocated $26.38 billion to Israel and another $60.84 billion to Ukraine . Lawmakers were locked in a monthslong stalemate over the package but were pressed to act after Israel endured its first-ever missile attack from Iran days earlier . <p> The Israel portion of the package included funds to replenish the country 's Iron Dome and David 's Sling missile defense systems , as well as $3.5 billion to go toward securing advanced weapons systems and other defense services . It also added about $9 billion in humanitarian aid for civilians in conflict zones , including Gaza . <p> Meanwhile , the Ukraine bill allocated billions of dollars to replenish defense weapons and services provided to the wartorn country as it continues to stave off an invasion from Russia . The bill includes $11.3 billion to maintain U.S. military operations in the region and another $13.8 billion to secure advanced weapons systems and other defense services . <p> Additionally , the package included $8.12 billion to Taiwan to combat any efforts from the Chinese government to invade the East Asian country . <p> Rep. Henry Cuellar ( D-TX ) walks from his office to the House chamber to vote on Capitol Hill on Wednesday , May 15 , 2024 , in Washington , D.C. ( AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana ) <p> His indictment prompted the House Ethics Committee to open its own investigation into the matter . That investigation has not yet concluded , but the panel may continue its inquiry after Cuellar won reelection to his seat in November . <p> Cuellar became the second House member to be indicted in the 118th Congress , following former Rep. George Santos in October the year before . Santos was later expelled from the House , although Cuellar did not receive the same fate , and he won reelection in November . 
@@119480525 <h> Why is Christian Science in our name ? <p> Our name is about honesty . The Monitor is owned by The Christian Science Church , and we 've always been transparent about that . <p> The Church publishes the Monitor because it sees good journalism as vital to progress in the world . Since 1908 , we 've aimed " to injure no man , but to bless all mankind , " as our founder , Mary Baker Eddy , put it . <p> Here , you 'll find award-winning journalism not driven by commercial influences -- a news organization that takes seriously its mission to uplift the world by seeking solutions and finding reasons for credible hope . <p> Today 's Daily starts with a case study in a life of service : to God , to neighbors and strangers alike , to country and the world , to family . You may have read other tributes to the late U.S. President Jimmy Carter , but spend a moment with Harry Bruinius ' rich appreciation of a " roving peacemaker " : a man who admitted he was a better ex-president than president , who acknowledged missteps and worked to course-correct , and , of course , who strove to center his life on a faith lived actively and compassionately . <p> The Christian Science Monitor is an international news organization offering calm , thoughtful , award-winning coverage for independent thinkers . We tackle difficult conversations and divisive issues -- we do n't shy away from hard problems . But you 'll find in each Monitor news story qualities that can lead to solutions and unite us -- qualities such as respect , resilience , hope , and fairness . <p> Israelis had begun to feel life take a turn toward what passes for normal during wartime . In Gaza , the fighting with Hamas has been winding down . In Lebanon , the rocket fire from a badly depleted Hezbollah has been halted by a ceasefire . <p> Yet night after night , millions of Israelis have found it only takes one ballistic missile launched by Yemen 's Houthi rebels , the last fully operational spoke in Iran 's " Axis of Resistance , " to upend their feelings of security . <h> Why We Wrote This <p> For more than a year , Yemen 's Houthi rebels have launched long-distance missile and drone attacks on Israel and Red Sea shipping . After Israel largely subdued its Iran-allied enemies closer at hand , it is struggling to deter the Houthis on its own . <p> As Israel tries to halt the missile fire by launching difficult long-range strikes against the Houthis , it is joining a list of regional and outside powers that have failed to deter their attacks on Red Sea shipping lanes . <p> The riddle of what to do is feeding a debate here : keep hitting Yemen or strike Iran , though it is considered to have only limited sway over the rebels and could be pushed in its weakened state to work toward a nuclear weapon . <p> Professor Shaul Chorev , a retired rear admiral in the Israeli navy , argues for an international coalition , not Israel alone , to confront the challenge . " I 'm not sure that attacking Iran or attacking Houthi infrastructure is what will change the situation , " he says . <p> Pajama-clad and still half-asleep , millions of Israelis have been scurrying in the middle of the night -- in some cases several nights in a row -- to seek safety in stairwells and bomb shelters , roused from bed by the wail of air raid sirens . <p> Sounding the alarm each time has been the firing of a single ballistic missile from almost 1,400 miles away by Yemen 's Houthi rebels , the last fully operational spoke in Iran 's anti-Israel and anti-U.S . " Axis of Resistance . " <p> Israelis had begun to feel life take a turn toward what passes for normal during wartime . <h> Why We Wrote This <p> For more than a year , Yemen 's Houthi rebels have launched long-distance missile and drone attacks on Israel and Red Sea shipping . After Israel largely subdued its Iran-allied enemies closer at hand , it is struggling to deter the Houthis on its own . <p> In Gaza , the fighting has been winding down , though casualties on both sides are mounting and the Israeli hostages are still being held captive . ( On Monday , the Israeli army said it killed scores of militants overnight in northern Gaza . ) <p> In Lebanon , the rocket fire from a badly depleted Hezbollah has been halted by a ceasefire . Iran 's land bridge to Hezbollah has been severed by the fall of Syria 's Assad regime . <p> Yet Israelis have found it only takes one Houthi missile in the dead of night to again wreak havoc and upend feelings of security . Another Houthi missile triggered sirens in the center of the country late Monday night , but was intercepted before reaching Israel , the army said . <p> As Israel tries to halt the increasing missile fire , it is joining a list of regional and outside powers that have failed to deter the Houthis , including Saudi Arabia and the United States . <p> Khaled Abdullah/Reuters <p> A banner depicting Israeli and American flags is burned as protesters , mainly Houthi supporters , rally to demonstrate support for Palestinians in the Gaza Strip , in Sanaa , Yemen , Dec. 20 , 2024 . <p> The resulting riddle of what to do is feeding an internal debate here : continue to hit long-range targets in Yemen or strike Iran , though it is considered to have only limited sway over the upstart Houthis , who revel in their ability to do harm both to Israel and the world . <p> Over the past year , Houthi attacks on international shipping in the Red Sea , including to Israel , have threatened the key trade route connecting Asia to the Middle East and Mediterranean . Some 12% of global trade flows through those waters . <p> The rebels say their attacks are in solidarity with Hamas in Gaza . Meanwhile a complete cessation to the war in Gaza -- the Houthis ' condition for holding their fire -- remains elusive . <p> " The Houthis are feeling empowered because in the past year they have managed to hurt the Egyptian economy and the supply chain for Europe , " says Eyal Pinko , a senior research fellow at the Begin-Sadat Center for Strategic Studies at Bar-Ilan University and a former intelligence unit head in the Israeli navy . <p> " U.K. and U.S. attacks and even previous Israel attacks did not do much to make a dent , " Dr. Pinko says . " They are driven not only by Iranian weapons and money but a very deep theological belief that Jews killed Mohammed . " The Houthi motto , Dr. Pinko notes , proclaims , " Death to America , Death to Israel , Damn the Jews . " <h> Houthis ' " zero effort " war <p> On Friday , after the Israeli air force attacked Yemen for the second time in a week , military analyst Amos Harel declared that Israel " finds itself in a new war , " in which the " Houthis remain the primary threat to the center of the country , with zero effort from their point of view . " <p> Among the targets in Yemen hit Thursday by a force of 25 Israeli warplanes : the international airport in the capital of Sanaa , power stations , a port , and an oil terminal . <p> Unlike strikes against neighboring Gaza or Lebanon , such a mission , the fourth against Yemen since the war began , entails " an enormous effort " and intricate planning , Mr. Harel noted in the newspaper Haaretz . The jets require delicate midair refueling to reach their targets . <p> Ariel Schalit/AP <p> An officer from the Israeli military 's home front command ( right ) and a police officer examine the damage after shrapnel from a Houthi missile collapsed a school building in the Tel Aviv suburb of Ramat Gan , Israel , Dec. 19 , 2024 . <p> The Israeli defense establishment , meanwhile , " is trying to figure out how much the Houthis ' actions are independent and what level of encouragement they 're getting from Tehran , " he added . <p> The night after Israel 's strike , the Houthis responded with another missile , this time triggering sirens around Jerusalem . <p> According to Dr. Pinko , even assessing the Houthi arsenal , which appears to be regularly replenished by Iran , is a challenge , because until recently Israeli intelligence on the group was limited . <p> " The United States has made over 50 attacks on Houthi infrastructure and missile infrastructure and has not yet stopped missiles from being launched , so I do n't think the numbers are the issue , " says Professor Shaul Chorev , a retired rear admiral in the Israeli navy who heads The Institute for Maritime Policy and Strategy in Haifa . <p> And in a country as desperately poor as Yemen , where 80% of the country relies on international aid to get by after a 15-year civil war , it is also difficult to find economic leverage to deter the Houthis . <p> " There is no simple solution for the Houthis because of the nature of who they are . ... They operate according to a different calculus " from Israel 's other foes , says Jonathan Spyer , director of research at The Middle East Forum , a Philadelphia-based think tank . <h> Iran option ? <p> It 's unclear just how much leverage Iran has over the Houthis , who like Hamas are more like a client with their own ideology than an Iranian creation . Nevertheless , there are those in the Israeli establishment , including reportedly the head of the Mossad , who are pushing for an attack on economically frail Iran . <p> Options could include striking energy and economic targets , though there is also talk of hitting Iran 's nuclear program . In a major retaliatory strike in late October , Israel targeted Iranian air defense and missile production sites . <p> Osamah Abdulrahman/AP <p> Firefighters work at the scene of an Israeli airstrike on the Haziz power station in southern Sanaa , Yemen , Dec. 19 , 2024 . <p> The thinking is that " if Israel wants to address the problem , it has to go to the address of it , which is Tehran not Sanaa , and that in the run-up to President-elect Donald Trump 's inauguration and a different international environment , Israel has a desire to start this conversation , " says Mr. Spyer . <p> " After six months of significant good strategic news for Israel , starting with a string of killings of both Hamas and Hezbollah top leadership ... there is a sense that they have Iran on the back foot . This comes with opportunities and threats , " he says . <p> The threat is that with their backs to the wall , Iran might work toward a nuclear weapon . But opportunity could lie in an economically stressed Iranian population angry over the billions invested in the Axis of Resistance instead of Iran 's own economy . <p> " I 'm not sure that attacking Iran or attacking Houthi infrastructure is the center of gravity that will change the situation , " he says . He argues that like the international shipping crisis caused by the Houthis , the prospect of a nuclear Iran should be one countered by an international coalition , including regional and great powers , not by Israel alone . <p> In the meantime , he says , " for the population , it is about morale . When once a night central Israel has to wake up and take shelter ... this is what terror organizations like to do , to disrupt life , that is their aim . They do n't need to win in this age of asymmetric warfare . " <p> You 've read of free articles . Subscribe to continue . <h> Help fund Monitor journalism for $11/ month <p> Monitor journalism changes lives because we open that too-small box that most people think they live in . We believe news can and should expand a sense of identity and possibility beyond narrow conventional expectations . <h> Digital subscription includes : <p> What is the Monitor difference ? Tackling the tough headlines -- with humanity . Listening to sources -- with respect . Seeing the story that others are missing by reporting what so often gets overlooked : the values that connect us . That 's Monitor reporting -- news that changes how you see the world . <p> About a year ago , I happened upon this statement about the Monitor in the Harvard Business Review -- under the charming heading of " do things that do n't interest you " : <p> " Many things that end up " being meaningful , writes social scientist Joseph Grenny , " have come from conference workshops , articles , or online videos that began as a chore and ended with an insight . My work in Kenya , for example , was heavily influenced by a Christian Science Monitor article I had forced myself to read 10 years earlier . Sometimes , we call things ' boring ' simply because they lie outside the box we are currently in . " <p> If you were to come up with a punchline to a joke about the Monitor , that would probably be it . We 're seen as being global , fair , insightful , and perhaps a bit too earnest . We 're the bran muffin of journalism . <p> But you know what ? We change lives . And I 'm going to argue that we change lives precisely because we force open that too-small box that most human beings think they live in . <p> The Monitor is a peculiar little publication that 's hard for the world to figure out . We 're run by a church , but we 're not only for church members and we 're not about converting people . We 're known as being fair even as the world becomes as polarized as at any time since the newspaper 's founding in 1908 . <p> We have a mission beyond circulation , we want to bridge divides . We 're about kicking down the door of thought everywhere and saying , " You are bigger and more capable than you realize . And we can prove it . " <p> If you 're looking for bran muffin journalism , you can subscribe to the Monitor for $15 . You 'll get the Monitor Weekly magazine , the Monitor Daily email , and unlimited access to CSMonitor.com. 
@@119483420 <p> The Shin Bet has comprehensively interrogated over 650 Gazans this year while performing some preliminary evaluation of around 2,500 of them , the Israel Security Agency said Tuesday in its 2024 annual report . <p> This is the first time that the Shin Bet has quantified the full picture of how many Gazan detainees it has seen as valuable enough to carry out a full interrogation . <p> Out of the over 2,500 Gazans brought to the Shin Bet for evaluation , around 1,350 were arrested in operations in which the Shin Bet directly participated . <p> This is the first time that the agency has quantified how many higher-value detainees it has received -- whether for purposes of trying to locate hostages or by virtue of senior ranks within Hamas , Islamic Jihad , or other terror groups . <p> The above numbers did leave many remaining open questions which , at press time , the Shin Bet had not yet answered . <p> For example , the agency did not say what happened to the around 1,850 detainees out of the 2,500 arrested , who it did not perform detailed questioning . <h> Returning Palestinians to Gaza <p> Numerous sources and reports have confirmed over the course of the war that large numbers of arrested Gazans have been sent back to Gaza if they were not deemed threatening or dangerous enough . <p> On March 31 , the IDF said that it had arrested over 800 suspects at Shifa Hospital in northern Gaza , with over 500 confirmed to be Hamas or Palestinian Islamic Jihad members . <p> How many of these remained under arrest and are potentially being sent to prison or being kept in indefinite detention , and how many were released back to Gaza ? <p> Reports have said thousands of detained Gazans have been sent back to Gaza over the course of the war , exceeding even the 2,500 number . <p> In addition , the Shin Bet said it had helped arrest 165 " operatives who were close to senior officials " -- though it did not define whether this meant they were deputy commanders of battalions , or personal couriers who helped locate the senior official , but might have lower ranks , or some other kind fo operative . <p> Moreover , it said that another 45 " were involved in invasions " -- presumably a reference to Hamas 's October 7 invasion . <h> Thwarting terrorism <p> Regarding the West Bank and Jerusalem , the Shin Bet report said that it had prevented around 1,040 substantial attacks . <p> These could be broken down into 689 shooting attacks , 326 improvised explosive attacks , 13 stabbings , nine car rammings , two suicide attacks , and one kidnapping . <p> In light of the number of terror attacks which were prevented , the agency said that it had succeeded in bringing down the number of " successful " terror attacks by 40% . <p> According to the report , the Shin Bet carried out dozens of special operations against West Bank and Jerusalem terrorists , including 10 in the field , including the well-known penetration of the hospital in Jenin to go after terrorists concealing themselves there , as well as special operations in Nablus and Tulkarem . <p> Including all of the many fronts where the Shin Bet operates , its special forces team for preventing a potential real-time terror attack was deployed with the police counter-terror unit 32 times . <p> Shin Bet special teams were also involved in a number of operations for rescuing live and dead hostages . <h> Iran <p> Next , the Shin Bet noted that Iran significantly increased its efforts to harm Israelis : by smuggling more dangerous weapons to West Bank Palestinian terrorists , by trying to recruit physical Israeli spies and agents , and by trying to use cyber attacks against Israelis . <p> There was a 400% jump in the number of arrests related to Iran 's spying and other efforts against Israelis compared to in 2023 . <p> 27 different Israelis have been indicted for various ties to Iran in 13 different episodes in which Tehran tried to utilize and turn Israeli citizens against their own country . <p> Separately , the Shin Bet noted it thwarted around 20 Israeli-Arab related terror cells , five of which it said were planning some kind of explosive or car explosive attacks . <p> It was unclear exactly how the agency was delineating between Jewish-Israelis turned by Iran and Israeli-Arabs involved in different forms of terror . <p> Moreover , the Shin Bet , along with the Israel National Cyber Directorate and the IDF , thwarted over 700 serious cyber attacks on the country , a jump of five times the number of similar level attacks from the year before . <p> These 700 attacks are in addition to millions of much smaller level cyber attacks that are undertaken against Israelis on a regular basis . <p> The report did not discuss Jewish extremist violence against Palestinians . <p> However , the IDF previously told the Post and other media that in 2024 , there were 663 Jewish extremist violence incidents , in 2023 there were 1,045 , and in 2022 there were 947 , seeming to show an improvement , but with 663 still far above prior years when there were 446 in 2021 , 353 in 2020 , and 339 in 2019 . <p> The IDF said that Jewish extremist violence against Palestinians had increased correspondingly to increased Palestinian terror , but does not really have an answer yet for bringing down the levels to pre-2022 levels . <p> Sources have told the Post that the Shin Bet and IDF have felt it has been harder to combat such violence due to lack of cooperation from the police under National Security Minister Itamar Ben Gvir . <p> Further , the report referenced providing security for hundreds of trips for high level Israeli officials to the war fronts in Gaza , Lebanon , and Syria . 
@@119483430 <p> Between ongoing military conflicts , a year of elections worldwide , and domestic political events that have shaken up the status quo , 2024 has been an eventful year . <p> As journalists , we at The Jerusalem Post see many of these stories develop in real time , watching as something develops from what may be a minor initial report to a major story . And as a Middle East daily , we also often get a front-row seat at the major war updates and geopolitical shifts that occur in our own backyard . <p> Now that the year is ending , we have the benefit of hindsight . With that in mind , here are The Jerusalem Post 's top 10 most important news stories of 2024. <h> 10 ) Ukrainian Kursk offensive - August 6 , 2024 <p> A Ukrainian serviceman patrols an area in the controlled by Ukrainian army town of Sudzha , Kursk region , Russia , August 16 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/YAN DOBRONOSOV ) <p> Russia has advanced this year after the failure of Ukraine 's 2023 counteroffensive to achieve any major gains , and has taken 420 sq.km. of territory from Ukrainian forces since June 14 , Sergei Shoigu , head of Russia 's security council , has said . <p> Ukraine struck back on Tuesday - and the battles continued through the night into Wednesday as Ukrainian forces pushed to the northwest of the border town of Sudzha , 530 km. southwest of Moscow , Russia 's defense ministry said . <p> In the worst one-day attack since the beginning of the Gaza war , 21 IDF soldiers were killed on Monday and several others were injured when Hamas forces fired rocket-propelled grenades on buildings the soldiers were inside . <p> The buildings were laden with stored explosives , and the grenades set them off causing their total collapse . <p> Four hostages were rescued simultaneously from two separate nearby locations in Nuseirat in central Gaza , in a high-risk joint operation by the IDF , Shin Bet ( Israel Security Agency ) , Yamam and police in broad daylight , the IDF announced in a series of statements on Saturday . <p> Regarding the third such successful operation to rescue hostages since the war started on October 7 , the IDF said that the rescued hostages were Noa Argamani ( 25 ) , Almog Meir ( 21 ) , Andrey Kozlov ( 27 ) , and Shlomi Ziv ( 40 ) , all of whom were kidnapped by Hamas to the Gaza Strip from the Supernova festival . <h> 8 ) Iran attacks Israel - April 13-14 + October 1 , 2024 <p> Objects are seen in the sky above Jerusalem after Iran launched drones and missiles towards Israel , in Jerusalem April 14 , 2024. ( credit : RONEN ZVULUN/REUTERS ) <p> Sirens blared across Israel on Saturday night as hundreds of drones and missiles launched from Iran reached Israel . Drones and missiles were also reportedly launched from Yemen and other countries around the region . <p> A seven-year-old girl from a Bedouin village near Arad was seriously wounded by the Iranian attack , according to Magen David Adom . Dr. Dan Schwartzfox , the deputy director of Soroka Medical Center , told Army Radio on Sunday morning that the girl was in intensive care and that her life was still at risk . Minor damage was caused to infrastructure at an IDF base in southern Israel during the attack as well , according to IDF Spokesperson Daniel Hagari . <p> The Dome of the Rock on the Al-Aqsa compound , also known to Jews as the Temple Mount is seen as projectiles fly through the sky , after Iran fired a salvo of ballistic missiles at Israel , as seen from Jerusalem October 1 , 2024 ( credit : REUTERS/JAMAL AWAD ) <p> Some 180 ballistic missiles were launched onto Israel on Tuesday night by Iran , The Jerusalem Post understands , leading to 1,800 rocket sirens sounding across the country . <p> In a statement given to Israeli media following the attack , the IDF vowed that it would strike forcefully across the Middle East on Tuesday night . <h> 7 ) Israel strikes Houthis in Yemen - July 20 , 2024 <p> Screenshot from Al-Masirah reporting to show the aftermath of alleged Israeli strikes on Yemen 's Hodeidah . July 20 , 2024. ( credit : Screenshot/Al-Masirah ) <p> IDF F-15 , F-35 , and other fighter jets carried out around 10 airstrikes against Houthi military targets in the area of the Hodeidah Port in Yemen , according to a mix of IDF and foreign media reports Saturday evening . <p> Israeli airstrikes targeted oil refining facilities in Yemen 's Hodeidah as well as Yemeni air force assets to disrupt the transport of Iranian weapons to Yemen and reportedly killed and wounded dozens of people . <p> His trial is a " chance to refute these ridiculous charges " against him , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told the Jerusalem District Court as he became the first sitting prime minister in Israeli history to testify in a public corruption trial on Tuesday . <p> " I waited eight years for this , " he said , " to say the truth as I remember . " He called the charges " an ocean of absurdity . " <p> Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh was assassinated in the Iranian capital of Tehran early Wednesday morning , the Palestinian terror group said , noting the killing could drastically change the outlook of Israel 's war on Hamas . <p> Hamas deputy chief in Gaza Khalil al-Hayya , citing witnesses who had been with Haniyeh in Iran , later said that the missile that killed Haniyeh struck him " directly , " Reuters reported . <p> As a result of the missile strike , windows , doors , and walls in his room were destroyed , Hayya told a press conference in Tehran . <p> Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar seen over a photo of a blast in the Gaza Strip ( illustrative ) ( credit : FLASH90/CANVA ) <p> Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar was killed by the IDF in Tel Sultan in Rafah on Wednesday in an unplanned operation , sources close to the matter confirmed to The Jerusalem Post Thursday evening , several hours after rumors arose that he had been killed earlier Thursday . <p> Shortly after , around 7:45 p.m. , confirmations came out from the IDF , Shin Bet , Foreign Minister Israel Katz , and others , that Sinwar was in fact dead . <p> Evidence that Sinwar is dead included matching both his dental records and fingerprint records which Israel had from the period when he was in Israeli prisons until 2011 . <p> One of the pagers that was thrown out before exploding , September 17 , 2024. ( credit : SECTION 27A COPYRIGHT ACT ) <p> In the most significant hit Lebanese terrorist and Iranian proxy group Hezbollah has taken in recent years , in an event that rocked Lebanon , over 3,600 people were wounded throughout the country on Tuesday -- a large majority of them Hezbollah members -- at around 3:30 p.m. , when the pagers that they used to communicate exploded . Additional Hezbollah operatives in Syria and Iraq fell victim to the attack as well . <p> Lebanon 's Health Minister Firass Abiad said that around 4,000 were wounded and 200 people were critically wounded , and the ministry was closing in on a dozen who had already died . <p> The Iranian ambassador to Lebanon , Mojtaba Amani , was reportedly wounded in the explosion , according to Iranian state-owned Mehr News Agency , as were a variety of senior Hezbollah officials and relatives of the terrorist group 's parliamentary MPs . <p> F-15I aircraft from the 69th fighter squadron at 6:20 p.m. on Friday night dropped close to 100 bombs on Hezbollah 's underground headquarters in the heart of Beirut , killing the terror group 's chief of 32 years , Hassan Nasrallah , and potentially reordering the region . <p> Nasrallah was killed , alongside other Hezbollah commanders including Ali Karaki , Hezbollah 's new military chief designate and current commander of the southern front , whom the IDF has just missed killing last week . <p> The attack involved a decade of intelligence collected both by the IDF and the Mossad as well as a variety of last-minute deceptions to ensure that Nasrallah would not flee the area . <p> In a blockbuster ruling that shook the military , diplomatic , and legal worlds , the International Criminal Court issued arrest warrants for Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former defense minister Yoav Gallant on Thursday . <p> The ICC cited reasonable grounds to believe that Netanyahu and Gallant committed the war crime of starvation as a method of warfare , and the crimes against humanity of murder , persecution , and other inhumane acts . <p> While Israel and the US condemned the ruling -- which is the first time the court has issued arrests for officials from a democratic state -- as biased , or going beyond the ICC 's mandate , the EU , France , Ireland , and several other countries said they would honor the arrest warrants . <p> Democratic candidate Vice President Kamala Harris delivered her concession speech on Wednesday following Republican candidate Donald Trump 's win in the US presidential elections . <p> Harris acknowledged her loss in the election , saying , " While I concede this election , I do not concede the fight that fueled this campaign . " The speech took place at Howard University , a historically black college . <p> " I am so proud of the race we ran , " she continued , emphasizing that the results must be accepted . 
@@119483432 <h> The 23-page report concluded that since the Hamas attacks of Oct. 7 , 2023 , against Israel , the conduct of hostilities in Gaza had " destroyed " local healthcare . <p> A UN Human Rights Office report on Tuesday condemned Israeli attacks on hospitals in Gaza , saying they had devastated the Palestinian enclave 's health system and raised serious concerns about Israel 's compliance with international law . <p> In the report documenting various attacks between Oct. 12 , 2023 and June 30 , 2024 , the UN rights office said they had had severe consequences on Palestinians ' access to medical attention . <p> The 23-page report concluded that since the Hamas attacks of Oct. 7 , 2023 , against Israel , the conduct of hostilities in Gaza had " destroyed " local healthcare . <p> " The destruction of the healthcare system in Gaza , and the extent of killing of patients , staff , and other civilians in these attacks , is a direct consequence of the disregard of international humanitarian and human rights law , " it said . <p> The Israeli military did not immediately reply to a request for comment on the report . Hamas weapons and explosives discovered in the Kamal Adwan Hospital in the Gaza Strip , December 28 , 2024. ( credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <h> Hamas 's use of civilian infrastructure <p> Israel has in the past few days conducted operations against hospitals in Gaza that drew criticism from the head of the World Health Organization ( WHO ) among others . <p> Hamas has used hospitals as command centers for military operations and said people Israel has detained at the facilities were suspected terrorists , the IDF has repeatedly accused . <p> The UN report alluded to such arguments but said not enough information had been made public to substantiate them . <p> The report said deliberately directing attacks against hospitals and places where the sick and wounded are , provided they are not military objectives , would be war crimes . <p> It also warned that an alleged systemic pattern of rights abuses against civilians could constitute crimes against humanity . <p> The UN said that responding to its report , the Israeli government said its military had taken extensive measures to mitigate civilian harm and minimize disruption , including providing aid and evacuation routes , and setting up field hospitals . <p> Still , the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights , Volker T ? rk , said the report 's findings pointed to " blatant disregard for international humanitarian and human rights law . " <p> " As if the relentless bombing and the dire humanitarian situation in Gaza were not enough , the one sanctuary where Palestinians should have felt safe in fact became a death trap , " T ? rk said in a statement . <p> The war was triggered by a Hamas attack on southern Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , in which 1,200 people were killed and 251 taken to Gaza as hostages . 
@@119483433 <p> The IDF and Shin Bet ( Israel Security Agency ) have killed Anas Muhammad Saadi Masri , the commander of the northern sector of the rocket unit of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad , the IDF confirmed on Tuesday . <p> " An Air Force aircraft , guided by intelligence from the Military Intelligence Directorate ( Aman ) , the Shin Bet , and the Southern Command , struck and killed Masri earlier this month , " the statement said . <p> Masri was described as " a significant figure responsible for executing numerous terrorist operations , managing and directing actions by the organization that targeted Israeli civilians and IDF soldiers . " <p> The statement added that since October 7 , Masri had been actively commanding rocket fire from northern Gaza into Israeli border communities . <p> " Prior to the strike , extensive measures were taken to minimize civilian casualties , including the use of precision weaponry , accurate intelligence , and aerial surveillance , " the IDF emphasized . Palestinian Islamic Jihad supporters participate in an anti-Israel rally marking the 36th anniversary of the movement 's foundation in Gaza City , October 6 , 2023. ( credit : MOHAMMED SALEM/REUTERS ) <p> " We will continue to strike anyone who promotes or engages in terrorism against Israeli citizens and will work to achieve the objectives of the war , " the IDF concluded . <h> Eliminated Nukhba commander <p> Late Tuesday night , the IDF added that it had killed Abd al-hadi Tzavach , the Nukhba commander of the Western Khan Yunis battalion , who also was among the leaders of the invasion and killing of Israeli at Nir Oz on October 7 . <p> Critics of Israel have said that many of the IDF airstrikes continue to kill sizable numbers of Palestinian civilians with the military not being transparent about those numbers . <p> Israeli supporters blame such casualties on Hamas using human shields . <p> In addition , the IDF announced on Tuesday that the Nahal Brigade , which has spent several months fighting Hamas in Rafah in deep southern Gaza is being given a period to refresh itself , with the 4th Kiryati Brigade taking over its role in that area . <p> In another update , the IDF said that Hamas had managed to fire off one rocket from southern Gaza into the Gaza Corridor , with an IDF Iron Dome interceptor seemingly missing the rocket , but the rocket also not causing any harm . <h> Palestinian Islamic Jihad <p> Palestinian Islamic Jihad , a terrorist partner of Hamas that operates in both the Gaza and the West Bank , is currently holding some of the Israeli hostages abducted by Hamas during the terrorist group 's October 7 , 2023 invasion of southern Israel . <p> In addition to holding hostages and launching attacks on Israel , the terrorist group has began launching attacks against Palestinian Authority forces in the West Bank in recent weeks . 
@@119483434 <h> UK doctor suspended after calling Hamas , Hezbollah leaders ' legends ' <h> Dr. Rehiana Ali was suspended pending the conclusion of a full GMC investigation , the association said . <p> People demonstrate on the day of a vote on the motion calling for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza , amid the ongoing conflict between Israel and the Palestinian terrorist group Hamas , in London , Britain , February 21 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/Isabel Infantes ) <p> A British neurologist received an interim suspension from the Medical Practitioners Tribunal Service ( MPTS ) last week after complaints about controversial social media posts including those declaring Hamas and Hezbollah leaders to be legends , according to the General Medical Council and the doctor . <p> Dr. Rehiana Ali was suspended pending the conclusion of a full GMC investigation , the association said , rendering her temporarily unable to practice medicine for the National Health Service . The MPTS decision said the suspension would last for 18 months and was subject to review . <p> " We are acutely aware of the concerns that have been raised regarding Dr. Ali , and we will take action where concerns suggest patient safety or the public 's confidence in doctors may be at risk , " said the GMC . <p> Ali , who had sought election in 2024 as an independent politician for Bradford South 's parliamentarian , told The Jerusalem Post on Tuesday that she had been reported for a variety of " legitimate and accurate " anti-Israel social media posts . <p> " The MPTS finding was based on absolutely nothing , " said Ali . " They effectively admit it was not based on fact . Your fellow colleagues should have informed you that the ' complaint ' was by the Israeli lobbies . The same complaints were dismissed three times previously by the GMC . The MPTS decision was a travesty and unfortunately brings them into disrepute given they are meant to serve the British public . They may have outlived their usefulness . " Pro-Palestinian demonstrators in London , 5 October 2024 ( credit : SCREENSHOT/X ) <h> Ali claimed ' free speech ' <p> The doctor contended in a Tuesday X post that the " Israel lobby " that had led the persecution against her had infiltrated most organizations , including the GMC and MPTS . <p> Ali argued on X Thursday that posts such as those relating to deceased Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar and Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah were legal political commentaries that had been distorted . <p> " Israel has failed . Nasrallah is now a legend -- completely untouchable -- in Lebanon . They 've just immortalized the man forever . Rest in Peace , " Ali wrote on October 7 , later eulogizing the Hamas leader in a similar manner on October 24 . " Israel will lose . They 've just turned Sinwar into a legend . A male role model . " <p> The neurologist also asked in a post if there was " any evidence of this ' antisemitism ' because hurt feelings do n't count . And if anything , there 's a huge over-representation so a little diversity may be good ? There are zero barriers to Jewish progression . Quite different for a Muslim . I 've actually worked my way up . " <p> Ali said that complaints about her had been filed by UK Lawyers for Israel and the Jewish Medical Association to the GMC , but had been dismissed and had not resulted in an investigation . <p> " We are grateful that the GMC has in this case decided on an interim suspension , " UKLFI director Caroline Turner said in a Sunday statement . <p> UKLFI said that it had been alerted to Ali 's social media proclivities by antisemitism and Holocaust denial watchdog GnasherJew . In one such October 26 X post , Ali called for the de-proscription of Hamas in the UK , as the group " are not terrorists and are legitimate Palestinian resistance . " <p> In multiple posts , Ali disputed the Jewish casualties of the Holocaust and suggested that Holocaust victim Anne Frank 's diary was a forgery . <p> Ali has also shared posts with fake and misleading Talmud quotes , claiming on Friday that Jews and Israelis behaved the way that they did because " all roads seem to lead to the supremacist beliefs in the Talmud . " 
@@119483439 <h> New York Representative Ritchie Torres shared the now-deleted posts , commenting that the company was likely hacked by the pro-Palestinian movement . <p> The Ford Motor Company 's X account was " compromised , " and pro-Gaza posts were made without authorization , the company confirmed on Tuesday morning . <p> " Our X account was briefly compromised , and three posts were made that were not authorized or posted by Ford . They do not represent the view of Ford Motor Company , " the company wrote . " Ford and X are investigating this breach . " <h> About the Ford Motor Company <p> Ford was founded by Henry Ford in Dearborn , Michigan , in 1903 , the company 's website confirmed . Its headquarters are located in Dearborn , Michigan . <p> While Ford made his name in the automobile business , the Henry Ford Museum made note of the company founder 's antisemitic beliefs . <p> Between 1920 and 1922 , Ford released a series of articles in the Dearborn Independent where he decried anything Jewish - blaming the Jews for everything from wars to Jazz music , according to the museum . 
@@119485928 <h> Share this : <p> 2024 kicked off with readers ' reactions to Republican contender Nikki Haley 's comments on the Civil War . Such debate 158 years after the war 's end foreshadowed the contentiousness of another eventful period in American politics . As we report the news of the day , you let us know what you make of it all , in letters sent by email or by stamp . Today , we look at the past year through your words on the Voice of the People page . <p> Bruce Farrell Rosen of San Francisco said Haley 's " vague " explanation disrespected Black Americans as well as the soldiers , " Black and white , " who fought to end slavery . " It undermines the work of perhaps our greatest president , Abraham Lincoln , the man who gave his life to hold the Union together , " he added . <p> Briarwood 's Joseph N. Manago decried the carnage of a then 3-month-old Gaza war being fought with American military aid . " More than 20,000 Palestinian Arab civilians , mostly women and children , have been murdered and 2 million physically displaced by the Israel Defense Forces , " Manago said , recalling the $168 billion spent to finance the Vietnam War . " This is mere d ? j ? vu of the criminal organization known as the United States government . " <p> Canadian Frank Sterle Jr . reflected on Gaza : " It has long seemed to me as a news consumer that the value of a life abroad is typically perceived according to the abundance of protracted conditions under which it suffers , especially during wartime , and that this effect can be exacerbated when there 's also racial contrast . " <p> Writing from New Windsor , N.Y. , Lois Lichtenberg called for a shift in coverage of a different sort in response to a photo of NFL quarterback Patrick Mahomes ' " beautiful " wife : " How about a nice beefcake pic of hubby Patrick ? We girls deserve equal exposure ( wink , wink ) . " <p> NYC 's impending trash bin rules to help in the fight against rats prompted James Scotto of Yorktown Heights , N.Y. , to urge choosing humane methods over glue traps , reminding us that rodents are " emotional , intelligent and just looking to survive . " <p> In April , New Yorkers were shaken by a rare earthquake . From Greenburgh , N.Y. , Nicole Bamber shared her experience . " It started as a rumble underground . I thought I was insane , thinking it felt like the subway but in the suburbs . Then our windows and doors started rattling and things fell off of shelves in our dining room , " she said . " My dog Nugget went nuts . <p> Another natural rarity that month was the solar eclipse , and some headed to places where the sun would be totally blocked by the moon . " ' The path of totality ' is one of those great phrases , like ' the cone of silence ' in ' Get Smart , ' " mused Rick Sinclair of Suffern , N.Y . <p> As Middle East protests persisted , Shirley Watts of Jamaica looked to the past to make sense of the present . " For those of you in my age group , does n't this all sound familiar ? Different reasons , of course , since the late ' 60s , but we 've been here before . Seems like the old saying ' history repeats itself ' is exactly what 's going on . " <p> Daniel Jean Lipsman of Manhattan gave his recommendation : " Private entities , like Columbia University , need to divest themselves -- of hypocritical , troublemaking rabble-rousers . No one forced these students to pay tuition to institutions whose policies they disagree with . " <p> With anxieties over the presidential candidates mounting , Warren Gross of New Rochelle , N.Y. , expressed concern that both lacked " the character , skill and vision " necessary for the role . " They both should step aside and let new leaders be put into place while we still have a place . " <p> In July , a potential assassin 's bullet grazed Donald Trump 's ear . " Less than half an inch would have changed the history of the world for the better or for the worse , " said C ? line Secada of Bedford , N.Y . " I pray that our former president realizes he 's not immune to the effects of his own hate-filled , revenge rhetoric . " <p> Days later , another earthquake , this one political . <p> " With President Biden 's decision to drop out of the presidential campaign , Donald Trump now becomes the oldest person ever nominated for president , " noted John Dent of Woodland Park , N.J. " If he is elected , he will also be the oldest president when he completes his term . Do we really want to go through this again ? " <p> In August , readers like JoAnn Lee Frank of Clearwater , Fla. , celebrated . " Freedom is something to be cherished . Just ask Wall Street Journal reporter Evan Gershkovich , who had been held in Russian captivity for nearly 16 months , and former Marine Paul Whelan , " she said . <p> On the killing of Hamas political leader Ismael Haniyeh , Frank Metzger of Pomona , N.Y. , questioned the wisdom : " Now who 's going to negotiate for the ceasefire that will release the hostages ? " <p> Amid the onslaught of stories about terrible things in the world , Brooklynite Mariann Tepedino found a nice one . " I love the kumbaya story about the hydrant fish in Bedford-Stuyvesant . " <p> After the death of Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar , Frank Barnett of Queens Village chided the president 's guidance on Gaza . " If the Israeli army listened to Biden warning them not to go into Rafah , they would not have gotten the Hamas leader . " <p> Peter J. Peirano of Ridgewood , N.J. , saw that the event would be seen differently depending on who was looking . " Many will not mourn his death , as it opens a possibility of peace in Gaza . Others will mourn the death of a hero resisting oppression to his last breath . " <p> From Huntington Station , L.I. , Nancy Macri Kennedy celebrated another bit of good news . " Just watched the Liberty take the first title in franchise history . Fantastic ! " <p> Election Day saw Trump return to the Oval Office . David DiBello of Brooklyn offered his perspective : " The Biden administration has failed at foreign leadership , and Kamala Harris ca n't see anything she would do differently , " he said . " On Tuesday , I voted for Trump to the second term he so justly deserves . " <p> " I really did n't think all that hate would win , " said Greg Arnold of Hauppauge , L.I . <p> Another assassin 's bullet found its mark this month , sparking debate over not only violence but health insurance . <p> " It 's too bad that an insurance CEO had to die so some crazy guy could send his message , but maybe now these greedy , selfish health insurance companies will realize that health and life are more important than stock dividends , " said Bob Wiecezak of New Hyde Park , L.I . <p> In Brooklyn , Barbara Prince bemoaned the crappy state of things . " You have to watch where you are walking every step of the way , otherwise you are stepping into dog poop , " she said . <p> That could be said about a lot of things in the world today , Barbara . So many of us feel it . And yet , we hold out hope and look for the bright spots we can rejoice in . Whatever happens , we 'll keep reporting it , and we 'll keep publishing what you think about it . Just keep writing . 
@@119487521 <p> In short , a nationwide overhaul of the system came to Richmond before it arrived in any other postal region . The plan , called " Delivering for America , " calls for centralizing mail delivery , prioritizing packages and reducing collections of first-class mail from rural ZIP codes , an initiative that critics believe will slow mail delivery overall . <p> Postmaster Louis DeJoy believes the changes are necessary , primarily because Americans send fewer letters and instead are receiving far more mail in the form of packages . <p> " The survival of mail , and the Postal Service itself , depends on successfully navigating this irreversible volume shift , " DeJoy said recently before an oversight hearing of Congress . <p> Almost immediately after the switch , Virginia 's delivery plummeted from 89% to 66% on-time , which prompted the USPS to send a 20-person crisis management team to Richmond , we reported in March . <p> Postmaster General Louis DeJoy testifies during a House Oversight and Reform Committee hearing on Capitol Hill in Washington on Aug. 24 , 2020 . <p> Tom Williams , Associated Press <p> Packages are sorted at the U.S. Postal Service Richmond Processing and Distribution Center in Sandston in December 2019 . <p> TIMES-DISPATCH <p> Rather than reverting to the former postal delivery system , Virginia 's switch was preserved . Virginia and three other regions remain " substantially activated " under the new system , DeJoy has said . <p> At the oversight hearing , DeJoy recognized what he called unintended impacts of the switch . <p> Over time , the commonwealth 's mail delivery score has improved . The score specifically tracks the on-time delivery of what 's known as First Class Mail . <p> As of our most recent check-in , the refurbished Sandston postal operation had climbed to a score of a " B- . " That means that approximately 82% of the time , First Class Mail sent from Virginia arrives within two days at its intended destination . <p> But a " B- " is a score that no one seems happy with . The agency itself has said it wants a 93% on-time delivery rate . That 's what Virginia 's congressional delegation wants to see , too . <p> Reps . Jennifer McClellan , D-4th , and Rob Wittman , R-1st , speak outside the U.S. Postal Service office in Sandston in March . An audit found extensive problems at the Henrico County complex . <p> Margo Wagner , Times-Dispatch <p> Meanwhile , Congress members from Virginia -- including Rep. Jennifer McClellan , D-4th ; Rep. Rob Wittman , R-1st ; Rep. Abigail Spanberger , D-7th ; Sen. Mark Warner and Sen. Tim Kaine -- made enough noise to earn a meeting with DeJoy , a Trump appointee with a logistics background who remains adamant that overhaul is the only way to save the Postal Service . <p> The bipartisan group of lawmakers met with DeJoy in April . Several months later , Spanberger took up the cause with President Joe Biden , writing him a letter recounting Virginians ' mail delivery woes and urging him to make appointments to the board that oversees the Postal Service . <p> Spanberger wrote that the body -- the USPS Board of Governors -- needed to be ready to " to seriously consider Postmaster DeJoy 's fitness for his role . " <p> A month later , Biden announced two nominations , satisfying Spanberger 's request . Those nominations await confirmation from the U.S. Senate . <h> 14 fun facts about your mail <h> 1 . Benjamin Franklin was the first postmaster general in U.S. history <p> Before 1971 , the postmaster general was a member of the president 's Cabinet . <p> National Portrait Gallery/TNS <h> 2 . The Postal Service processed and delivered 425.3 million pieces of mail per day in 2021 . <p> USPS <h> 3 . There are more than 139,868 blue mail collection boxes in the U.S. <p> Patrick Tehan/San Jose Mercury News/TNS <h> 4 . There are 31,247 Postal Service-managed retail offices . <p> Dreamstime/TNS <h> 5 . The U.S. Postal Inspection Service is the law enforcement arm of USPS . <p> In 2021 , inspectors carried out 5,141 arrests and 3,784 convictions for postal crimes , including mail theft and mail fraud . <p> Al Diaz/Miami Herald/TNS <h> 6 . The U.S. Postal Service has no official motto . <p> The quote often thought to be its motto -- " Neither snow nor rain nor heat nor gloom of night stays these couriers from the swift completion of their appointed rounds " -- is inscribed on the James A. Farley Post Office in New York City and comes from the ancient Persian historian Herodotus . <p> Richard **26;1015;TOOLONG Star Tribune/TNS <h> 7 . USPS generally receives no tax dollars , and funds itself through the sale of postage and other services . <p> Chuck Kennedy/TNS <h> 8 . Contrary to popular belief , the Pony Express was never officially a part of the U.S. Postal Service . <p> The official name of the Pony Express was the Overland Express Route . <p> Keith Myers/Kansas City Star/TNS <h> 9 . The Breast Cancer Research semipostal stamp has raised more than $93.9 million for breast cancer research since 1998 . <p> More than 1.09 billion stamps have been sold . <p> Dreamstime/TNS <h> 10 . The Alzheimer 's semipostal has raised more than $1.2 million since 2017 . <p> Jen Rynda/Baltimore Sun/TNS <h> 11 . The Save Vanishing Species semipostal has raised more than $6.6 million since 2011 . <p> More than 59.2 million Save Vanishing Species stamps have been sold . <p> Robyn Dixon/Los Angeles Times/TNS <h> 12 . The United Kingdom 's iconic red mail collection boxes are called pillar boxes . <p> After the 2012 London Olympics , pillar boxes in the hometowns of gold medalists were painted gold . <p> Dreamstime/TNS <h> 13 . The United Nations has an agency called the Universal Postal Union that coordinates postal policy internationally . <p> Li Muzi/Xinhua/Zuma Press/TNS <h> 14 . If it were a private sector company , the Postal Service would rank 43rd in the 2021 Fortune 500 . <p> In the 2021 Global Fortune 500 list , it ranked 123rd . <p> Dreamstime/TNS <h> Top stories of 2024 : Tavares Floyd 's donations , family connections called into question <p> Weeks before the Nov. 5 elections , the Richmond Times-Dispatch reported that at least five reported donors to 6th District City Council candidate Tavares Floyd denied contributing to his campaign . <p> Veronica Love , an assistant attorney general in Maryland , said she went to college with Floyd , " but I did n't donate to him . " <p> After Floyd did not respond to questions regarding his campaign finance reporting -- and instead issued The Times-Dispatch a cease-and-desist letter threatening legal action -- the newspaper spoke with members of Floyd 's family , who denied the candidate 's alleged familial ties to the late George Floyd . <p> Tavares Floyd speaks during the Richmond Times-Dispatch and League of Women Voters City Council debate at the Virginia Museum of History &amp; Culture on Oct. 9 . <p> Margo Wagner , Times-Dispatch <p> A close relative of George Floyd 's said he had never heard of or met Tavares Floyd . <p> The Times-Dispatch also reported that , despite referring to himself as a lawyer , Tavares Floyd did not hold a license to practice law in any U.S. state or territory . <p> On Nov. 2 , Floyd held a news conference in which he denied -- but refused to discuss -- the allegations , and declined to take questions from reporters . He was defeated by incumbent Ellen Robertson three days later . <h> Historical homes you can own in the Richmond area <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $1,925,000 <p> Looking for a move-in ready luxury home in the Fan ? Welcome to this finely renovated and restored property on Monument Avenue , where historical charm seamlessly blends with modern luxury . Inside , you will find gracious parlors adorned with beautiful millwork , marble fireplaces , and original heart pine floors . Expansive formal rooms , filled with natural light , transition effortlessly into a gourmet kitchen designed for culinary enthusiasts and entertainers alike . The kitchen features granite countertops , ample storage , and a large center island with two sinks . Top-of-the-line appliances include a Wolf 6-burner gas range with roll-out storage , a Wolf gas oven , a Bosch stainless steel dishwasher , and a GE Monogram refrigerator and convection microwave . Adjacent to the kitchen , a covered rear porch and slate patio offer a peaceful setting overlooking the gardens , perfect for relaxing with a coffee or cocktail while enjoying the garden waterfall . The second floor features a main bedroom suite with two luxurious ensuite baths , both with large walk-in showers . One ensuite includes a beautiful vanity , an original fireplace , and a spacious walk-in closet/dressing room with built-ins . The third floor serves as a private retreat , complete with a bedroom , an adjoining living room , and a wet bar with a sink and mini fridge . This level also includes a versatile space ideal for a home office or gym . The full , unfinished basement offers extensive storage options and potential for a wine cellar . The renovation includes a secure gate with an auto opener , providing alley access and parking for two cars . With many recent updates overseen by 3North Architects and executed by Marc Franko Contracting , this home is truly move-in ready . Experience the perfect blend of historic elegance and contemporary living on Monument Avenue . <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $1,950,000 <p> Welcome to the " Billups " home , a landmark in the heart of historic Church Hill ! Built in 1860 by William J Westwood , a brick foundry owner , this home showcases remarkable attention to detail and one-of-a-kind features dating to the 19th century . Charles J Billups , a prominent Richmond citizen and owner of the Chas J Billups &amp; Sons Funeral Home purchased the home in 1912 and it remained in the Billups family until 1999 . Two concrete dogs were added at the entrance which earned it the Church Hill nickname of " The Dog House " . The current owners modernized the home and added spectacular outdoor spaces , while preserving the original features and quirky traits that make it a special property . The wrap-around front porch provides the perfect welcome , as do the two sets of front doors which open to a striking foyer . Light pours in through floor-to-ceiling windows on the first level , and the formal rooms flow seamlessly into a comfortable family room open to the modern eat-in kitchen and a deck overlooking the backyard . Upstairs the primary suite is a dream with a spacious walk-in closet and renovated bath . Three additional bedrooms ( one with its own bath ) , a hall bath , loads of storage , and a laundry area round out the second level . The finished basement is a treasure trove of original features and additional space ! An English basement entrance leads to original brick walls , a bedroom , a sitting room/office , a wet bar , a half bath , a flex/fitness room , and a storage area that once served as the original kitchen . It 's the home 's outdoor spaces that are unmatched in the area ! The front porch is the perfect spot to read a book or just say hi to neighbors . The back of the home has herringbone brickwork , plenty of parking , and a private driveway with two automatic gates that provide an entrance from 27th Street . Church Hill is a walker 's delight with coffee shops , restaurants , parks , historic sites , and festivals around every corner . The Billups home offers a rare chance to own a unique piece of Richmond history ! <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Hopewell - $355,000 <p> Charming 5-Bedroom Brick Home with Modern Amenities . Step into elegance and comfort with this beautifully renovated 5-bedroom , 3.5-bathroom brick home . A perfect blend of classic charm and modern amenities awaits you , offering an unparalleled living experience . With five generously sized bedrooms and three and a half bathrooms , this home is perfect for families of all sizes . Updated to perfection , the kitchen boasts a large island and ample counter space . The expansive deck provides a wonderful space for hosting gatherings or enjoying quiet evenings under the stars . The finished basement offers a private bedroom and bathroom , while the beautifully finished attic includes another bedroom and full bath , adding versatility to your living arrangements . Enjoy the timeless appeal and low maintenance of a durable brick facade . This home combines elegance with functionality and is suited for both everyday living and entertaining . Do n't miss the opportunity to make this exquisite property your own . You can go ahead and schedule a tour today to experience the beauty and craftsmanship firsthand . Your dream home awaits ! <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Henrico - $410,000 <p> Welcome to this beautifully designed 4-bedroom , 3-bathroom home that blends comfort , functionality , and style . As you enter , you 're greeted by a modern living room featuring built-in shelves and an elegant electric fireplace , creating the perfect setting for relaxation and entertaining . The open-concept layout flows seamlessly into the dining room and kitchen area , ideal for the everyday living . The kitchen has ample granite countertops , sleek stainless steel appliances and plenty of cabinet space . Just off the kitchen , you 'll find a large laundry room that offers plenty of space for washing , folding , and ironing clothes -- perfect for keeping things organized . The primary bedroom is a true retreat , located upstairs with abundant natural light and a generous layout . It includes a private en-suite bathroom with a massive walk-in shower , offering a relaxing escape . The second upstairs bedroom is also well-sized , and there is a secondary bathroom conveniently located nearby . Downstairs , two additional bedrooms share a Jack and Jill bath , making this space versatile for use as a home office and/or as guest bedrooms . Enjoy outdoor living with a welcoming front porch , a nice deck in the back , and a fully fenced yard -- perfect for children or pets to play safely . With its thoughtful design , functional layout , and stylish finishes , this home offers everything you need and more . Located just minutes from downtown Richmond and Henrico 's attractions . Schedule a showing today and make this beautiful home yours ! <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $669,000 <p> This gorgeous home resides in the much-desired Ginter Park neighborhood , in Northside Richmond . This amazing all-brick gem has a slate roof , an amazing kitchen , primary en suite , has hardwood oak floors throughout , and has been lovingly cared for . Downstairs you will find a living room , den , dining room , the eat-in kitchen with screen porch access , a bedroom &amp; one full bath ( with laundry chute ! ) . Upstairs , there are 3 full bedrooms &amp; 2 full baths . The primary features a very large bedroom with fireplace , a walk-through closet with rear porch access , &amp; a full bath with walk-in shower , double vanities &amp; a heated floor . The primary has access to both the front porch &amp; the back porch so you can pick which one you wish to use to start your day &amp; enjoy your morning coffee viewing the amazing landscaping . The home has a full basement that has been freshly painted &amp; a new laundry area added ; this area has plenty of extra space that can provide storage or a place to create a man cave or hang-out space for the kids . The attic space is fully floored w/ high enough ceilings &amp; enough space to potentially convert into another living area . Outside , you will find a native floral paradise with a huge yard &amp; a detached two-car garage . The owner has labeled native plants &amp; flowers throughout so the new owners will be able to identify &amp; enjoy come Spring . The backyard is fully fenced &amp; the circular drive has gates so you can park in the rear of the home should you choose . This home is ideal for a growing family or those who would love to live in the city &amp; its ease of access everywhere . Interstates 64 &amp; 95 are within just minutes of this location . There is a neighborhood pool association only a block away , making this location a true draw for kids &amp; fitness buffs ! Enjoy all that the Northside has to offer in a truly walkable neighborhood or a quick drive to Downtown , Carytown , or Lakeside . Come check out this beauty &amp; make her your own before it is too late ! <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Hopewell - $280,000 <p> Priced Below Assesment ! ! ! ! This beautiful all brick 2 story Colonial style home with partial unfinished basement is conveniently located to shopping and interstates in the heart of Hopewell ! ! ! This home boast 5 bedrooms 2.5 baths with a en-suite on the first floor ! ! ! A large front screened porch is great for enjoying your early morning coffee . Sitting on one of the largest lots in town at just shy on an acre that icludes 2 seperate driveway entrances that make it very convenient to access with plenty parking . The large foyer opens into the great room with masonry fireplace/ gas log insert , formal dining room , kitchen includes island , custom cabinentry and gas stove for cooking . Utility room with washer and dryer hookup . Lets not forget the 2 detached garages , ( 1 ) 20x20 unfinished 2 car garage and also a ( 30x30 ) fully finished 2+ car gararge with a gas fired furnace and an ac unit ! ! ! Do nt miss this great opportunity ! ! ! ! <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $699,990 <p> Located in a highly sought-after neighborhood , this single-family home offers a rare opportunity to create your dream space . While renovations have begun , there is still plenty of room for customization , allowing you to put your personal touch on this home and unlock its full potential . With a solid foundation and a layout filled with charm , this property offers incredible equity potential for the right buyer . The home features a spacious , finished basement perfect for additional living space or storage , and a detached shed that adds versatility for hobbies , a workshop , or even an entertainment area . Situated just moments from top-rated schools and an array of restaurants , you 'll enjoy both convenience and an ideal location . This is the perfect opportunity for someone looking to invest in a home with character , ready to be finished to suit your tastes and lifestyle . Do n't miss out on the chance to make this property truly your own ! <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $395,000 <p> Tucked away on the corner of a peaceful block , this newly remodeled 2-story home is truly a hidden gem ; located only a couple blocks from the best amenities Richmond has to offer . 5 min from I-64 , easily walk to the grocery , parks , and beloved Richmond restaurants like The Market at 25th , Dolce Pizza , and The Woodville Pool ! With striking details in every space starting with the fully fenced yard and custom stone walkway . The gracious floor plan offers 5 bedrooms and over 2,255 SF of modern living space flooded with natural light and elegant chandeliers . As you move through the foyer you will notice the large , open kitchen with beautifully remodeled granite countertops , a multi-purpose island , SS appliances , gas stove &amp; hood ( with option to modify to electric access ) , lots of cabinet space &amp; an oversized custom pantry . Private 14 x 8 laundry room offers exceptional storage space , perfect for busy households . This home is built for entertaining &amp; unwinding . Spend your evenings in the private , low maintenance backyard with a covered stone back porch and a huge 1 car garage/workspace -- a rare gem in the heart of the lively city . Boasting an open concept with 9 ' ceiling downstairs , recessed lights , large sized bedrooms , and great storage space ! ! Spacious 1st floor bedroom could be easily used as a primary with its own ensuite bathroom . Massive primary suite on the 2nd floor features an additional attached room/WIC/storage space with newly updated light fixtures , giving you more than enough room to enjoy . 2 ? fully remodeled bathrooms with an oversized vanity , top to bottom marble tiling throughout , and tub/showers ! 4th , &amp; 5th bedrooms on the 2nd floor all feature NEW windows , NEW light fixtures and FRESH paint . Other modern amenities include but not limited to NEW HVACS , NEW roof , NEW insulation , additional off-street parking , NEW electricity , NEW plumbing and more ! This property is a must see -- explore the neighborhood and fall in love with Richmond living . Make this your forever home and schedule your showing today ! <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $300,000 <p> This is a completely remodeled and move-in-ready Cape Cod 4 bedroom home in central Richmond ! Brand new for this next lucky owner is the kitchen ( including new stainless steel appliances , ) fresh paint inside and out , 2.5 fully renovated bathrooms , new HVAC , new light fixtures and ceiling fans , and new flooring throughout ( tile in the kitchen and bathrooms + new carpet . ) The vinyl siding is also new for worry-free exterior maintenance years ahead . There are 2 main level bedrooms with 1.5 baths downstairs , and 2 more bedrooms upstairs with a full bath up there . There is a nice sunroom adjacent to the kitchen , and there is additional square feet to entertain on the concrete patio out back with a fully fenced back yard ! There is street parking out front with additional parking out back by the 1-car garage - or you could use it as a storage shed ! This home is within walking distance to the McGuire VA Hospital ! It 's also just minutes away from Broad Rock Sports Complex , and both Hull Street and Hwy 301 shopping and restaurants . <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $825,000 <p> Enjoy the best of both worlds : Live in a carefully restored three- or four- bedroom , 3 full bath antebellum home while collecting rent from the sophisticated one-bedroom apartment in the English basement . The entire house is a skillful blend of 19th century detail and modern conveniences such as an open floor plan with custom kitchen on the main level . High ceilings and large windows make for bright rooms even as burnished heart pine floors and original woodwork impart a sense of place . The second level has two bedrooms and a full bath . The original two bedrooms on the third floor have been combined into one large cozy space , perfect for bedroom and study , home office , or exercise/media room . Adjacent is a full bath . Masterfully renovated , this 176-year old treasure has gas heat , central air , and six rebuilt fireplaces , some with gas coals . Wide porches on the first and second floors overlook a fenced rear garden with terraces and irrigation . There is brick-paved parking for at least two cars off a cobblestone city alley . Please note that the basement is 770 SF of fully finished space , which is included in the total for the house . Nearby are some of the city 's best restaurants &amp; bakeries . Close to the James River , the Capital Trail , interstates , MCV/VCU , government offices , the airport , and Amtrak . Staging and new photos to come . -- <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $450,000 <p> Welcome to 2719 Chamberlayne Ave , a beautifully remodeled 4-bedroom , 3.5-bathroom home in the heart of Richmond ! This stunning residence offers a perfect blend of modern elegance and versatile living , making it ideal for families , professionals , or entrepreneurs seeking a home-based business space . Step inside to discover an inviting open-concept lower level that seamlessly connects the living , dining , and kitchen areas -- a perfect layout for entertaining and family gatherings . The living room boasts a coffered ceiling and a cozy fireplace , setting the stage for warm and memorable moments . Recessed lighting and chic new fixtures enhance every corner , creating a bright and welcoming ambiance . The kitchen is a chef 's dream , featuring gorgeous granite countertops , a stylish backsplash , and a complete stainless steel appliance package . Whether you 're whipping up a weekday dinner or hosting a weekend brunch , this kitchen is ready for it all ! The walk-out basement provides additional space for recreation , storage , or a home office . Upstairs , you 'll find two spacious suites , each offering privacy and comfort , plus an additional shared bathroom perfectly situated between the other two bedrooms . Vinyl replacement windows flood the home with natural light while providing energy efficiency . Outside , enjoy the serenity of your back lot surrounded by a 6-foot privacy fence , ideal for relaxing evenings or vibrant gatherings . The 1.5-car detached garage offers convenience and additional storage , while the charming front country porch invites you to unwind and soak in the neighborhood 's tranquility . With immediate access to amenities and just minutes from downtown Richmond , this location is unbeatable ! Embrace a lifestyle of comfort , convenience , and endless possibilities . Do n't miss your chance to own this incredible property . Check out the virtual tour ; see the real thing in person and make this home yours today . <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Henrico - $325,000 <p> Step inside this meticulously maintained and tastefully updated and completely renovated home . Nestled in a desirable neighborhood , this residence features a total of 5 bedrooms and 2.5 bathrooms , providing ample space for comfortable living . The upper level boasts 3 spacious bedrooms , perfect for accommodating family and guests , along with one fully renovated bathrooms ( 2024 ) featuring luxurious carpeted floors , ensuring comfort during the colder months . There is an additional room that can be home office or gym . On the main level , you 'll find an additional bedroom with full bathroom , ideal for a huge primary bedroom and a conveniently located half bathroom . The renovated kitchen ( 2024 ) includes additional counter space and cabinets , while also featuring modern appliances including a refrigerator ( 2024 ) and range ( 2024 ) , dishwasher ( 2024 ) , Washer , and Dryer all convey with the house . SECOND FLOOR HVAC unit was fully replaced in the spring of 2023 ensuring efficient heating and cooling throughout the year . First HVAC is about 6 years old . In addition , a tankless water heater ( 2024 ) will provide endless hot water on demand . The beautifully replaced windows ( 2024 ) adds charm and natural light to the living space , while the durable PVC front porch posts enhance the home 's curb appeal . Additionally , a motorized awning ( with cover ) was renovated , freshly painted front patio in June 2024 . Freshly painted fence walls in the backyard offer both functionality and style , with gravel areas for easy maintenance . For those with outdoor needs , a huge front porch patio to enjoy your morning cup of coffee . The roof , replaced in 2023 , and overall detailed maintenance of this property will ensure peace of mind for years to come . Experience the perfect blend of modern fully updates and comfortable living spaces ! This stunning home wo n't last long . Schedule a viewing today ! <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $535,000 <p> Absolutely beautiful completely renovated and expanded home in Church Hill North neighborhood offering incredible quality . Just completed , this home boasting 2278 SF of living space , 2 primary bedrooms w/ ensuite bathrooms , 2 additional beds and 2 additional bathrooms . Other features included luxury vinyl wood plank flooring throughout , Dimensional Shingle Roof ( 2024 ) , HVAC ( 2024 ) , hot water tank ( 2024 ) and updated plumbing &amp; electrical . The beautifully renovated kitchen includes 42 " cabinets with soft-close drawers , granite counters , tile backsplash , large sink , island w/ pendants , SS appliances . A spacious full bath is provided on the first floor , as well as the laundry room . Upstairs you 'll find the main large primary suite in the front of the house , with two sets of closets , fireplace , and beautiful custom tiled bathroom featuring large shower and slipper soaking tub . An additional primary bedroom with ensuite full bath is also part of this beautiful home . Rounding off the 2nd floor are two additional bedrooms with a hall bath , featuring another custom tiled shower to complete this floor . Right off the kitchen area is a pair of French doors that lead you to the professionally landscaped backyard with gorgeous sod . This yard is fully enclosed with a privacy height wood fencing . The large deck would provide ample opportunities for your entertaining purposes , in addition is a detached studio , measuring about 230 sq ft and a separate storage closet for your yard supplies or bikes ! As a corner lot , you 've also got access to plenty of off-street parking . <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $425,000 <p> Discover this charming home nestled on a spacious corner lot , offering inviting curb appeal with a generous 31 ' front porch , perfect for relaxing and greeting neighbors . The home boasts replacement windows for energy efficiency , and a fully fenced rear yard , ideal for privacy and entertaining . You 'll also enjoy the flexibility of both street parking and the option for rear parking by the garage . Step inside to find a welcoming 7 ' x 8 ' hardwood-floored entryway , leading directly to the expansive living room with a cozy fireplace and surrounding book/ display cases or through a pass-thru into the upgraded kitchen . Storage abounds with numerous closets , a dedicated 4 ' x 6 ' pantry , and a 4 ' x 11 ' + mudroom outfitted with LVP flooring . Convenient dual staircases provide easy access to the second floor , whether from the main entry or the mudroom . Renovated in 2022 , this home boasts a stunning , upgraded kitchen featuring stylish Shaker cabinets and sleek quartz countertops . The third-floor flex space offers endless possibilities -- think home office , studio , or guest retreat . Enjoy peace of mind with new appliances ( 2022 ) , modern HVAC units , a hot water heater , and an entirely updated electrical system . The Basement provides ample storage and potential for an additional half bath . In the back is a spacious garage ( conveyed as-is but in solid condition ) with potential for a driveway from the street . This home is move-in ready . Make it yours and enjoy a blend of character , modern comforts , and fantastic versatility ! <h> 6 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $390,000 <p> Welcome to 2100 Harwood St , a beautifully renovated gem that offers the ideal space for your family ! This well-maintained , 1.5-level home boasts 6 spacious bedrooms , 4 full bathrooms , and a generous 2,543 sqft of living space . The home features a paved driveway , a fully fenced yard , and two HVAC units ensuring year-round comfort . You 'll love the stunning kitchen with granite countertops and a cozy eat-in breakfast area , perfect for family meals . The backyard provides a great space for gatherings and relaxation . With modern updates throughout , including renovated bathrooms and stylish finishes , this home is move-in ready and waiting for you ! Schedule your showing today and make this gorgeous property yours ! <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $434,900 <p> **Motivated Seller** A Unique Opportunity to own this stunning 1920s 2 Story with a double corner lot . Two Primary Bedrooms 1st &amp; 2nd floors with full bath ensuite 's . Total 4 Bedrooms and 4 Full Baths . Fully renovated with full finished basement and situated on a massive sized lot ! Inviting entry with 9-foot ceilings . Open living , dining and entertainment spaces as well as plenty of privacy and comfort in mind . Elegant finishes include luxurious vinyl plank floors , fresh paint , high end light fixtures &amp; hardware throughout . All new kitchen cabinets with quartz countertops and stainless-steel appliances . The 2nd level offers a primary bedroom ensuite , two additional bedrooms and another full bath . Possibilities galore with a separate entrance to the Basement featuring another full bath and open floor plan . This could be a Rec Room , 5th Bedroom , Office , Guest , In-law Suite or Rent a Room for xtra income . Completing the Interior with an insulated walk-up attic featuring plenty of floored storage space and headroom . An attractive landscaped outdoor space includes a concrete patio and completely fenced in yard with concrete driveway . Detached storage shed with lighting and work bench . A lot this size offers many possibilities from building a garage , in-law suite , swimming pool or another home . Subdivision possible . Other features include HVAC , New Water Heater , Sump Pump and peace of mind with a low maintenance exterior vinyl siding , new roof , new energy efficient windows , new electrical and new plumbing all with approved building permits . Ask about adding custom finishes if desired . <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $995,000 <p> ( This home needs some work , but does have much to offer .. we are releasing this this week as we have an opportunity to rent , but if anyone would have interest to purchase after the release , we would be open to considering ) LOCATION LOCATION LOCATION ! What is it about this street that makes it so inviting ? ! ? This charming 1930 's Tudor home features 5 bedrooms , 5 bathrooms , a work-out room in basement and 2585 square feet , with 340 finished square feet in the basement . Step into the spacious formal living area , open to the sun porch with its old but charming space . Previous owner added many updates to include a new kitchen , and updated bathrooms . Yes , it 's going to be dated , but this street , and this homes charm are definitely inviting . The first floor bedroom with french doors leading to the deck and a bathroom en suite can second as a family room , complete with built-in bookcases and it 's own fireplace . Upstairs has the large main bedroom with its own bath , and 3 additional bedrooms providing ample space , with two connected by a convenient Jack &amp; Jill bathroom . The walk-out basement offers a workout room with a closet , a bathroom and washer/dryer . Outside , enjoy the lovely freshly stained deck , perfect for outdoor dining or relaxation . This one offers easy access from a paved alley to a two-car garage &amp; a path to the home . The fenced-in yard provides privacy and space for outdoor activities ( Fence on sides belong to other homeowners ) . New roof ( 2023 ) , HVAC ( 2022 ) , and appliances 1-2 years old . With its classic charm and modern amenities , 42 Willway Ave on this sought after street allows a potential opportunity to own a piece of history with endless possibilities . Willway is a block or two from Mary Munford Elementary School , 3-5 minutes to Carytown , 3-6 minutes to Monument Avenue and has easy access to interstates and main roads . <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $475,000 <p> Unique duplex in Barton Heights sitting on an a large corner lot . Unit 1 offers 2000 Square feet of living space with three levels . Walking into the unit you will find a two story foyer with a large staircase . The large family room is open to the recently renovated kitchen . The oversized kitchen features Granite countertops , modern cabinets , and stainless steel appliances . On the second floor you will find two large bedrooms and a recently remodeled full bathroom . The third floor features flex space/office and another full bathroom . Unit 2 offers 1726 finished square feet and has a separate outside entrance . Inside the unit on the first floor you will find a spacious living room , kitchen and a half bathroom . The second floor has 2 nice sized bedrooms each with its own full bathroom . Both units have central air , washer/dryer , and original hardwood flooring . The exterior of the property features a large wrap around front porch and a recently landscaped front and side yard . <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $725,000 <p> INCREDIBLE OPPORTUNITY for this UNIQUE property in the heart of the Fan ! Steps away from Sticky Rice and other classic Fan restaurants and shops ! This property is actually TWO PARCELS deeded together -- the main house at 1 N. Stafford and a CARRIAGE HOUSE/STUDIO located at 2330 W. Main St. SOLID RENTAL HISTORY on both units , OR live in the home and rent the carriage house ! It 's TWO FOR ONE ! This 1,374 sq ft classic brick Fan row home features a spacious living room , dining area and kitchen on the first floor , and three bedrooms ( one is a trunk room being used as a spacious walk-in closet and dressing room ) and full bath ( with custom glass tile flooring ) upstairs . Wood floors , high ceilings -- ALL THE THINGS ! Brand new upper deck ! The carriage house/studio apartment provides an additional 364 square feet and is perfect for a home office , guest house , Air BnB , full time rental or studio space . There is a shared courtyard between the house and carriage house , with a locked gate for outdoor entertaining at its best . **This property is one deed with two separate tax parcels , two mailing addresses ( 1 N. Stafford and 2330 W. Main St ) and separate utilities . ( tax ID #W0001038031 main house and #W0001038030 studio ) . Truly an amazing opportunity and a must see ! <h> 6 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $325,000 <p> Step into a piece of history revitalized for modern living with this meticulously renovated historic home , transformed into a thriving PadSplit residence in 2022 . Nestled in a prime location along a busline with friendly neighbors and close proximity to parks and grocery stores , this property combines timeless charm with practicality . Boasting 6 bedrooms of varying sizes , each equipped with smart locks for secure and convenient access , it currently generates a robust net monthly income exceeding $3,000 . Two full bathrooms , built with durable roofing materials , cater to communal living needs , complemented by a communal outdoor patio . Updated with a new roof in 2015 and essential HVAC , electrical , and plumbing upgrades in 2015/2016 , the property ensures minimal maintenance and longevity . Originally intended for student rentals , it has achieved remarkable occupancy rates with only 6 turnovers in its inaugural year , offering stability with tenants able to give one week 's notice to vacate . Beyond its current use as a PadSplit , the property offers flexibility as it can also function as a traditional single-family residence , with the PadSplit lease terminable upon one month 's notice . Detailed financials and lease agreements are available upon request , making this an ideal investment opportunity or comfortable residence with income potential in a sought-after locale. <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Hopewell - $1,500,000 <p> Step into a piece of history with this charming Dutch Tudor-style home built in 1929 , nestled in the heart of historic City Point with a waterfront view where the Appomattox and James Rivers converge . This spacious 5-bedroom , 3.5-bath home boasts 4,075 square feet of living space and is set on a generous 2.92-acre lot , offering both privacy and ample room for outdoor activities . The home 's architectural integrity is beautifully preserved , showcasing intricate wood and brickwork details that echo its storied past . With a large 4-car garage , there 's plenty of space for vehicles and storage . Designed with entertaining in mind , this home provides the perfect backdrop for hosting family and friends . The expansive layout and scenic surroundings make it ideal for gatherings , while its prime location means you 're just 30 minutes from Richmond and 45 minutes from Williamsburg . If you 're looking for a home that combines historic charm with modern conveniences and is perfect for enjoying river views and outdoor activities , 701 Appomattox St is the perfect fit for you . Do n't miss this opportunity to own a unique piece of Hopewell 's history ! <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $1,149,950 <p> Welcome to the historic residence at 2018 Princess Anne Avenue ! Built in the early 20th century , this was the last home constructed on Princess Anne Avenue . It is a historically registered place citywide , statewide , and nationwide . There have been modernizations to the kitchen , bathrooms , and rooftop deck . The home has been lovingly maintained and kept in excellent condition by homeowner . The property exudes distinct character traits distinguishing it from other homes in the Union Hill and Church Hill area . You 'll have access to 4 different outdoor spaces including a full front covered porch with ample room to sit privately or host company , an outdoor balcony from the primary bedroom overlooking Jefferson Park , a fenced back patio , and a rooftop deck for you and your guests leisure time . The home possesses 9 ft+. ceilings on each of the 3 floors . The entire 3rd floor could be used as an optional income unit or in-law suite featuring , living rm , 2 bedrooms , 1 full bath , kitchen w/fridge , multiple room arrangement plans and access to rooftop deck . <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $519,900 <p> Featuring newly refinished hardwood floors , a detached garage , and fresh paint throughout this gorgeous property is ready to welcome you home ! You 'll love parking in your own private garage then make your way up the recently re-stained porch , through the back door , and into the mudroom - the perfect space to kick off your shoes and hang your coat at the end of the day . Continue into the eat-in kitchen with stainless appliances and mobile island with breakfast bar . Open to the kitchen is a light and bright dining room featuring a new modern light fixture and an abundance of natural light ! Continue into the living room that boasts beautiful French doors , a cozy stone fireplace , and a new modern light fixture making this the perfect place to entertain guests . Also on the first floor is a half bathroom with updated fixture and mirror . Upstairs you will find four sizable bedrooms and a full bathroom with updated vanity , light fixture , and mirror ! This property also features a partially finished basement with a shower . Enjoy convenient access to Byrd and Maymont Park , as well as local dining and shopping . Do n't miss out on owning this gorgeous property in the desirable Byrd Park area . Schedule your showing today ! <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $850,000 <p> Steeped in history and fully updated for modern living , this stunning 1890 Churchill home offers the perfect blend of preserved charm and contemporary luxury . Fully renovated to the studs in 2018 , updates include a new TPO and shingled roof , 2-zone HVAC , tankless water heater , plumbing , and electrical -- plus brand-new wood siding in 2024 . Offering 4 spacious bedrooms and 3.5 baths , this home features two primary suites -- one on each floor -- each with private porches . The second-floor suite boasts a cozy wood-burning stove , multiple closets , a spa-like en-suite bath with dual vanity , soaking tub , and glass shower , plus a private study with wet bar and balcony access . The chef 's kitchen is a true highlight with a farmhouse sink , gas cooking , and breakfast bar , all open to a light-filled living space with soaring coffered ceilings and 6 total fireplaces . Outdoors , enjoy a full front porch , a stamped concrete patio , front and side gardens , and a private fenced rear . Off-street parking completes the package . This is your chance to own a beautifully restored historic gem close to some of the city 's best restaurants and sites ! <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $599,999 <p> Rare opportunity for investors or owner-occupants to own a completely renovated duplex with a garage on tree-lined Leonard Parkway in the desirable Near West End . Each unit features a spacious living room , dining room , kitchen with private porch access , two bedrooms , one bathroom , and in-unit washer/dryer . The head-to-toe renovation includes a new roof , kitchens , bathrooms , two heat pumps , ductwork , Pella windows , two water heaters , main water line , washers/dryers , gutters , crawl space insulation and hatch , interior and exterior paint , doors , hardware , upgraded plumbing and electrical , and more ! There is a full front porch with a swing and two new large , covered rear porches that lead to the garden enclosed by a new privacy fence . Additionally , there is a divided 2-car garage with individual pedestrian doors , plus separate utilities for each unit . Ideal for generating rental income or living in one unit while renting out the other . Completely turnkey and ready to go -- this is an exceptional opportunity in a prime location ! <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Hopewell - $220,000 <p> Are you looking for your next investment property ? Come check out this Duplex in Hopewell ! There is a 3rd unit at this property inside the garage . This property has had lots of renovations and with some small finishing touches you could turn this into 3 units with good rental returns ! Upstairs has all new windows except for 1 . Roof is brand new ! All units have their own entrance . 1 car garage as well ! Lots of extra lot space in the rear of property with a fully fenced in lot ! There is lots of potential with this property ! All personal property to include carports , storage containers etc. do not convey but are negotiable . <h> Top stories of 2024 : City 's credit card program hit by abuse <p> In May , the Richmond Times-Dispatch reported that the city credit cards assigned to Registrar Keith Balmer and Deputy Registrar Jerry Richardson -- who together oversaw Richmond 's Office of Elections -- had been suspended after tens of thousands of dollars in questionable charges . <p> That analysis revealed dozens of transactions that were not consistent with city procurement rules . It also showed that then-city spokesperson Petula Burks had used her card to make nearly $100,000 worth of purchases at firms connected to her former business partner . <p> City spokesperson Petula Burks speaks at City Hall on June 8 , 2022 , during Mayor Levar Stoney 's unveiling of a new branding identity for Richmond . An analysis by The Times-Dispatch showed that Burks had used her city credit card to make nearly $100,000 worth of purchases at firms connected to her former business partner . Asked about those charges , she resigned on July 2 . <p> Eva Russo , Times-Dispatch <p> Asked about those charges , Burks resigned on July 2 . Later that month , officials announced measures to " improve efficiency and oversight " in the procurement department , which manages the credit cards . <h> Historical homes you can own in the Richmond area <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $1,925,000 <p> Looking for a move-in ready luxury home in the Fan ? Welcome to this finely renovated and restored property on Monument Avenue , where historical charm seamlessly blends with modern luxury . Inside , you will find gracious parlors adorned with beautiful millwork , marble fireplaces , and original heart pine floors . Expansive formal rooms , filled with natural light , transition effortlessly into a gourmet kitchen designed for culinary enthusiasts and entertainers alike . The kitchen features granite countertops , ample storage , and a large center island with two sinks . Top-of-the-line appliances include a Wolf 6-burner gas range with roll-out storage , a Wolf gas oven , a Bosch stainless steel dishwasher , and a GE Monogram refrigerator and convection microwave . Adjacent to the kitchen , a covered rear porch and slate patio offer a peaceful setting overlooking the gardens , perfect for relaxing with a coffee or cocktail while enjoying the garden waterfall . The second floor features a main bedroom suite with two luxurious ensuite baths , both with large walk-in showers . One ensuite includes a beautiful vanity , an original fireplace , and a spacious walk-in closet/dressing room with built-ins . The third floor serves as a private retreat , complete with a bedroom , an adjoining living room , and a wet bar with a sink and mini fridge . This level also includes a versatile space ideal for a home office or gym . The full , unfinished basement offers extensive storage options and potential for a wine cellar . The renovation includes a secure gate with an auto opener , providing alley access and parking for two cars . With many recent updates overseen by 3North Architects and executed by Marc Franko Contracting , this home is truly move-in ready . Experience the perfect blend of historic elegance and contemporary living on Monument Avenue . <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $1,950,000 <p> Welcome to the " Billups " home , a landmark in the heart of historic Church Hill ! Built in 1860 by William J Westwood , a brick foundry owner , this home showcases remarkable attention to detail and one-of-a-kind features dating to the 19th century . Charles J Billups , a prominent Richmond citizen and owner of the Chas J Billups &amp; Sons Funeral Home purchased the home in 1912 and it remained in the Billups family until 1999 . Two concrete dogs were added at the entrance which earned it the Church Hill nickname of " The Dog House " . The current owners modernized the home and added spectacular outdoor spaces , while preserving the original features and quirky traits that make it a special property . The wrap-around front porch provides the perfect welcome , as do the two sets of front doors which open to a striking foyer . Light pours in through floor-to-ceiling windows on the first level , and the formal rooms flow seamlessly into a comfortable family room open to the modern eat-in kitchen and a deck overlooking the backyard . Upstairs the primary suite is a dream with a spacious walk-in closet and renovated bath . Three additional bedrooms ( one with its own bath ) , a hall bath , loads of storage , and a laundry area round out the second level . The finished basement is a treasure trove of original features and additional space ! An English basement entrance leads to original brick walls , a bedroom , a sitting room/office , a wet bar , a half bath , a flex/fitness room , and a storage area that once served as the original kitchen . It 's the home 's outdoor spaces that are unmatched in the area ! The front porch is the perfect spot to read a book or just say hi to neighbors . The back of the home has herringbone brickwork , plenty of parking , and a private driveway with two automatic gates that provide an entrance from 27th Street . Church Hill is a walker 's delight with coffee shops , restaurants , parks , historic sites , and festivals around every corner . The Billups home offers a rare chance to own a unique piece of Richmond history ! <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Hopewell - $355,000 <p> Charming 5-Bedroom Brick Home with Modern Amenities . Step into elegance and comfort with this beautifully renovated 5-bedroom , 3.5-bathroom brick home . A perfect blend of classic charm and modern amenities awaits you , offering an unparalleled living experience . With five generously sized bedrooms and three and a half bathrooms , this home is perfect for families of all sizes . Updated to perfection , the kitchen boasts a large island and ample counter space . The expansive deck provides a wonderful space for hosting gatherings or enjoying quiet evenings under the stars . The finished basement offers a private bedroom and bathroom , while the beautifully finished attic includes another bedroom and full bath , adding versatility to your living arrangements . Enjoy the timeless appeal and low maintenance of a durable brick facade . This home combines elegance with functionality and is suited for both everyday living and entertaining . Do n't miss the opportunity to make this exquisite property your own . You can go ahead and schedule a tour today to experience the beauty and craftsmanship firsthand . Your dream home awaits ! <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Henrico - $410,000 <p> Welcome to this beautifully designed 4-bedroom , 3-bathroom home that blends comfort , functionality , and style . As you enter , you 're greeted by a modern living room featuring built-in shelves and an elegant electric fireplace , creating the perfect setting for relaxation and entertaining . The open-concept layout flows seamlessly into the dining room and kitchen area , ideal for the everyday living . The kitchen has ample granite countertops , sleek stainless steel appliances and plenty of cabinet space . Just off the kitchen , you 'll find a large laundry room that offers plenty of space for washing , folding , and ironing clothes -- perfect for keeping things organized . The primary bedroom is a true retreat , located upstairs with abundant natural light and a generous layout . It includes a private en-suite bathroom with a massive walk-in shower , offering a relaxing escape . The second upstairs bedroom is also well-sized , and there is a secondary bathroom conveniently located nearby . Downstairs , two additional bedrooms share a Jack and Jill bath , making this space versatile for use as a home office and/or as guest bedrooms . Enjoy outdoor living with a welcoming front porch , a nice deck in the back , and a fully fenced yard -- perfect for children or pets to play safely . With its thoughtful design , functional layout , and stylish finishes , this home offers everything you need and more . Located just minutes from downtown Richmond and Henrico 's attractions . Schedule a showing today and make this beautiful home yours ! <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $669,000 <p> This gorgeous home resides in the much-desired Ginter Park neighborhood , in Northside Richmond . This amazing all-brick gem has a slate roof , an amazing kitchen , primary en suite , has hardwood oak floors throughout , and has been lovingly cared for . Downstairs you will find a living room , den , dining room , the eat-in kitchen with screen porch access , a bedroom &amp; one full bath ( with laundry chute ! ) . Upstairs , there are 3 full bedrooms &amp; 2 full baths . The primary features a very large bedroom with fireplace , a walk-through closet with rear porch access , &amp; a full bath with walk-in shower , double vanities &amp; a heated floor . The primary has access to both the front porch &amp; the back porch so you can pick which one you wish to use to start your day &amp; enjoy your morning coffee viewing the amazing landscaping . The home has a full basement that has been freshly painted &amp; a new laundry area added ; this area has plenty of extra space that can provide storage or a place to create a man cave or hang-out space for the kids . The attic space is fully floored w/ high enough ceilings &amp; enough space to potentially convert into another living area . Outside , you will find a native floral paradise with a huge yard &amp; a detached two-car garage . The owner has labeled native plants &amp; flowers throughout so the new owners will be able to identify &amp; enjoy come Spring . The backyard is fully fenced &amp; the circular drive has gates so you can park in the rear of the home should you choose . This home is ideal for a growing family or those who would love to live in the city &amp; its ease of access everywhere . Interstates 64 &amp; 95 are within just minutes of this location . There is a neighborhood pool association only a block away , making this location a true draw for kids &amp; fitness buffs ! Enjoy all that the Northside has to offer in a truly walkable neighborhood or a quick drive to Downtown , Carytown , or Lakeside . Come check out this beauty &amp; make her your own before it is too late ! <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Hopewell - $280,000 <p> Priced Below Assesment ! ! ! ! This beautiful all brick 2 story Colonial style home with partial unfinished basement is conveniently located to shopping and interstates in the heart of Hopewell ! ! ! This home boast 5 bedrooms 2.5 baths with a en-suite on the first floor ! ! ! A large front screened porch is great for enjoying your early morning coffee . Sitting on one of the largest lots in town at just shy on an acre that icludes 2 seperate driveway entrances that make it very convenient to access with plenty parking . The large foyer opens into the great room with masonry fireplace/ gas log insert , formal dining room , kitchen includes island , custom cabinentry and gas stove for cooking . Utility room with washer and dryer hookup . Lets not forget the 2 detached garages , ( 1 ) 20x20 unfinished 2 car garage and also a ( 30x30 ) fully finished 2+ car gararge with a gas fired furnace and an ac unit ! ! ! Do nt miss this great opportunity ! ! ! ! <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $699,990 <p> Located in a highly sought-after neighborhood , this single-family home offers a rare opportunity to create your dream space . While renovations have begun , there is still plenty of room for customization , allowing you to put your personal touch on this home and unlock its full potential . With a solid foundation and a layout filled with charm , this property offers incredible equity potential for the right buyer . The home features a spacious , finished basement perfect for additional living space or storage , and a detached shed that adds versatility for hobbies , a workshop , or even an entertainment area . Situated just moments from top-rated schools and an array of restaurants , you 'll enjoy both convenience and an ideal location . This is the perfect opportunity for someone looking to invest in a home with character , ready to be finished to suit your tastes and lifestyle . Do n't miss out on the chance to make this property truly your own ! <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $395,000 <p> Tucked away on the corner of a peaceful block , this newly remodeled 2-story home is truly a hidden gem ; located only a couple blocks from the best amenities Richmond has to offer . 5 min from I-64 , easily walk to the grocery , parks , and beloved Richmond restaurants like The Market at 25th , Dolce Pizza , and The Woodville Pool ! With striking details in every space starting with the fully fenced yard and custom stone walkway . The gracious floor plan offers 5 bedrooms and over 2,255 SF of modern living space flooded with natural light and elegant chandeliers . As you move through the foyer you will notice the large , open kitchen with beautifully remodeled granite countertops , a multi-purpose island , SS appliances , gas stove &amp; hood ( with option to modify to electric access ) , lots of cabinet space &amp; an oversized custom pantry . Private 14 x 8 laundry room offers exceptional storage space , perfect for busy households . This home is built for entertaining &amp; unwinding . Spend your evenings in the private , low maintenance backyard with a covered stone back porch and a huge 1 car garage/workspace -- a rare gem in the heart of the lively city . Boasting an open concept with 9 ' ceiling downstairs , recessed lights , large sized bedrooms , and great storage space ! ! Spacious 1st floor bedroom could be easily used as a primary with its own ensuite bathroom . Massive primary suite on the 2nd floor features an additional attached room/WIC/storage space with newly updated light fixtures , giving you more than enough room to enjoy . 2 ? fully remodeled bathrooms with an oversized vanity , top to bottom marble tiling throughout , and tub/showers ! 4th , &amp; 5th bedrooms on the 2nd floor all feature NEW windows , NEW light fixtures and FRESH paint . Other modern amenities include but not limited to NEW HVACS , NEW roof , NEW insulation , additional off-street parking , NEW electricity , NEW plumbing and more ! This property is a must see -- explore the neighborhood and fall in love with Richmond living . Make this your forever home and schedule your showing today ! <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $300,000 <p> This is a completely remodeled and move-in-ready Cape Cod 4 bedroom home in central Richmond ! Brand new for this next lucky owner is the kitchen ( including new stainless steel appliances , ) fresh paint inside and out , 2.5 fully renovated bathrooms , new HVAC , new light fixtures and ceiling fans , and new flooring throughout ( tile in the kitchen and bathrooms + new carpet . ) The vinyl siding is also new for worry-free exterior maintenance years ahead . There are 2 main level bedrooms with 1.5 baths downstairs , and 2 more bedrooms upstairs with a full bath up there . There is a nice sunroom adjacent to the kitchen , and there is additional square feet to entertain on the concrete patio out back with a fully fenced back yard ! There is street parking out front with additional parking out back by the 1-car garage - or you could use it as a storage shed ! This home is within walking distance to the McGuire VA Hospital ! It 's also just minutes away from Broad Rock Sports Complex , and both Hull Street and Hwy 301 shopping and restaurants . <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $825,000 <p> Enjoy the best of both worlds : Live in a carefully restored three- or four- bedroom , 3 full bath antebellum home while collecting rent from the sophisticated one-bedroom apartment in the English basement . The entire house is a skillful blend of 19th century detail and modern conveniences such as an open floor plan with custom kitchen on the main level . High ceilings and large windows make for bright rooms even as burnished heart pine floors and original woodwork impart a sense of place . The second level has two bedrooms and a full bath . The original two bedrooms on the third floor have been combined into one large cozy space , perfect for bedroom and study , home office , or exercise/media room . Adjacent is a full bath . Masterfully renovated , this 176-year old treasure has gas heat , central air , and six rebuilt fireplaces , some with gas coals . Wide porches on the first and second floors overlook a fenced rear garden with terraces and irrigation . There is brick-paved parking for at least two cars off a cobblestone city alley . Please note that the basement is 770 SF of fully finished space , which is included in the total for the house . Nearby are some of the city 's best restaurants &amp; bakeries . Close to the James River , the Capital Trail , interstates , MCV/VCU , government offices , the airport , and Amtrak . Staging and new photos to come . -- <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $450,000 <p> Welcome to 2719 Chamberlayne Ave , a beautifully remodeled 4-bedroom , 3.5-bathroom home in the heart of Richmond ! This stunning residence offers a perfect blend of modern elegance and versatile living , making it ideal for families , professionals , or entrepreneurs seeking a home-based business space . Step inside to discover an inviting open-concept lower level that seamlessly connects the living , dining , and kitchen areas -- a perfect layout for entertaining and family gatherings . The living room boasts a coffered ceiling and a cozy fireplace , setting the stage for warm and memorable moments . Recessed lighting and chic new fixtures enhance every corner , creating a bright and welcoming ambiance . The kitchen is a chef 's dream , featuring gorgeous granite countertops , a stylish backsplash , and a complete stainless steel appliance package . Whether you 're whipping up a weekday dinner or hosting a weekend brunch , this kitchen is ready for it all ! The walk-out basement provides additional space for recreation , storage , or a home office . Upstairs , you 'll find two spacious suites , each offering privacy and comfort , plus an additional shared bathroom perfectly situated between the other two bedrooms . Vinyl replacement windows flood the home with natural light while providing energy efficiency . Outside , enjoy the serenity of your back lot surrounded by a 6-foot privacy fence , ideal for relaxing evenings or vibrant gatherings . The 1.5-car detached garage offers convenience and additional storage , while the charming front country porch invites you to unwind and soak in the neighborhood 's tranquility . With immediate access to amenities and just minutes from downtown Richmond , this location is unbeatable ! Embrace a lifestyle of comfort , convenience , and endless possibilities . Do n't miss your chance to own this incredible property . Check out the virtual tour ; see the real thing in person and make this home yours today . <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Henrico - $325,000 <p> Step inside this meticulously maintained and tastefully updated and completely renovated home . Nestled in a desirable neighborhood , this residence features a total of 5 bedrooms and 2.5 bathrooms , providing ample space for comfortable living . The upper level boasts 3 spacious bedrooms , perfect for accommodating family and guests , along with one fully renovated bathrooms ( 2024 ) featuring luxurious carpeted floors , ensuring comfort during the colder months . There is an additional room that can be home office or gym . On the main level , you 'll find an additional bedroom with full bathroom , ideal for a huge primary bedroom and a conveniently located half bathroom . The renovated kitchen ( 2024 ) includes additional counter space and cabinets , while also featuring modern appliances including a refrigerator ( 2024 ) and range ( 2024 ) , dishwasher ( 2024 ) , Washer , and Dryer all convey with the house . SECOND FLOOR HVAC unit was fully replaced in the spring of 2023 ensuring efficient heating and cooling throughout the year . First HVAC is about 6 years old . In addition , a tankless water heater ( 2024 ) will provide endless hot water on demand . The beautifully replaced windows ( 2024 ) adds charm and natural light to the living space , while the durable PVC front porch posts enhance the home 's curb appeal . Additionally , a motorized awning ( with cover ) was renovated , freshly painted front patio in June 2024 . Freshly painted fence walls in the backyard offer both functionality and style , with gravel areas for easy maintenance . For those with outdoor needs , a huge front porch patio to enjoy your morning cup of coffee . The roof , replaced in 2023 , and overall detailed maintenance of this property will ensure peace of mind for years to come . Experience the perfect blend of modern fully updates and comfortable living spaces ! This stunning home wo n't last long . Schedule a viewing today ! <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $535,000 <p> Absolutely beautiful completely renovated and expanded home in Church Hill North neighborhood offering incredible quality . Just completed , this home boasting 2278 SF of living space , 2 primary bedrooms w/ ensuite bathrooms , 2 additional beds and 2 additional bathrooms . Other features included luxury vinyl wood plank flooring throughout , Dimensional Shingle Roof ( 2024 ) , HVAC ( 2024 ) , hot water tank ( 2024 ) and updated plumbing &amp; electrical . The beautifully renovated kitchen includes 42 " cabinets with soft-close drawers , granite counters , tile backsplash , large sink , island w/ pendants , SS appliances . A spacious full bath is provided on the first floor , as well as the laundry room . Upstairs you 'll find the main large primary suite in the front of the house , with two sets of closets , fireplace , and beautiful custom tiled bathroom featuring large shower and slipper soaking tub . An additional primary bedroom with ensuite full bath is also part of this beautiful home . Rounding off the 2nd floor are two additional bedrooms with a hall bath , featuring another custom tiled shower to complete this floor . Right off the kitchen area is a pair of French doors that lead you to the professionally landscaped backyard with gorgeous sod . This yard is fully enclosed with a privacy height wood fencing . The large deck would provide ample opportunities for your entertaining purposes , in addition is a detached studio , measuring about 230 sq ft and a separate storage closet for your yard supplies or bikes ! As a corner lot , you 've also got access to plenty of off-street parking . <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $425,000 <p> Discover this charming home nestled on a spacious corner lot , offering inviting curb appeal with a generous 31 ' front porch , perfect for relaxing and greeting neighbors . The home boasts replacement windows for energy efficiency , and a fully fenced rear yard , ideal for privacy and entertaining . You 'll also enjoy the flexibility of both street parking and the option for rear parking by the garage . Step inside to find a welcoming 7 ' x 8 ' hardwood-floored entryway , leading directly to the expansive living room with a cozy fireplace and surrounding book/ display cases or through a pass-thru into the upgraded kitchen . Storage abounds with numerous closets , a dedicated 4 ' x 6 ' pantry , and a 4 ' x 11 ' + mudroom outfitted with LVP flooring . Convenient dual staircases provide easy access to the second floor , whether from the main entry or the mudroom . Renovated in 2022 , this home boasts a stunning , upgraded kitchen featuring stylish Shaker cabinets and sleek quartz countertops . The third-floor flex space offers endless possibilities -- think home office , studio , or guest retreat . Enjoy peace of mind with new appliances ( 2022 ) , modern HVAC units , a hot water heater , and an entirely updated electrical system . The Basement provides ample storage and potential for an additional half bath . In the back is a spacious garage ( conveyed as-is but in solid condition ) with potential for a driveway from the street . This home is move-in ready . Make it yours and enjoy a blend of character , modern comforts , and fantastic versatility ! <h> 6 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $390,000 <p> Welcome to 2100 Harwood St , a beautifully renovated gem that offers the ideal space for your family ! This well-maintained , 1.5-level home boasts 6 spacious bedrooms , 4 full bathrooms , and a generous 2,543 sqft of living space . The home features a paved driveway , a fully fenced yard , and two HVAC units ensuring year-round comfort . You 'll love the stunning kitchen with granite countertops and a cozy eat-in breakfast area , perfect for family meals . The backyard provides a great space for gatherings and relaxation . With modern updates throughout , including renovated bathrooms and stylish finishes , this home is move-in ready and waiting for you ! Schedule your showing today and make this gorgeous property yours ! <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $434,900 <p> **Motivated Seller** A Unique Opportunity to own this stunning 1920s 2 Story with a double corner lot . Two Primary Bedrooms 1st &amp; 2nd floors with full bath ensuite 's . Total 4 Bedrooms and 4 Full Baths . Fully renovated with full finished basement and situated on a massive sized lot ! Inviting entry with 9-foot ceilings . Open living , dining and entertainment spaces as well as plenty of privacy and comfort in mind . Elegant finishes include luxurious vinyl plank floors , fresh paint , high end light fixtures &amp; hardware throughout . All new kitchen cabinets with quartz countertops and stainless-steel appliances . The 2nd level offers a primary bedroom ensuite , two additional bedrooms and another full bath . Possibilities galore with a separate entrance to the Basement featuring another full bath and open floor plan . This could be a Rec Room , 5th Bedroom , Office , Guest , In-law Suite or Rent a Room for xtra income . Completing the Interior with an insulated walk-up attic featuring plenty of floored storage space and headroom . An attractive landscaped outdoor space includes a concrete patio and completely fenced in yard with concrete driveway . Detached storage shed with lighting and work bench . A lot this size offers many possibilities from building a garage , in-law suite , swimming pool or another home . Subdivision possible . Other features include HVAC , New Water Heater , Sump Pump and peace of mind with a low maintenance exterior vinyl siding , new roof , new energy efficient windows , new electrical and new plumbing all with approved building permits . Ask about adding custom finishes if desired . <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $995,000 <p> ( This home needs some work , but does have much to offer .. we are releasing this this week as we have an opportunity to rent , but if anyone would have interest to purchase after the release , we would be open to considering ) LOCATION LOCATION LOCATION ! What is it about this street that makes it so inviting ? ! ? This charming 1930 's Tudor home features 5 bedrooms , 5 bathrooms , a work-out room in basement and 2585 square feet , with 340 finished square feet in the basement . Step into the spacious formal living area , open to the sun porch with its old but charming space . Previous owner added many updates to include a new kitchen , and updated bathrooms . Yes , it 's going to be dated , but this street , and this homes charm are definitely inviting . The first floor bedroom with french doors leading to the deck and a bathroom en suite can second as a family room , complete with built-in bookcases and it 's own fireplace . Upstairs has the large main bedroom with its own bath , and 3 additional bedrooms providing ample space , with two connected by a convenient Jack &amp; Jill bathroom . The walk-out basement offers a workout room with a closet , a bathroom and washer/dryer . Outside , enjoy the lovely freshly stained deck , perfect for outdoor dining or relaxation . This one offers easy access from a paved alley to a two-car garage &amp; a path to the home . The fenced-in yard provides privacy and space for outdoor activities ( Fence on sides belong to other homeowners ) . New roof ( 2023 ) , HVAC ( 2022 ) , and appliances 1-2 years old . With its classic charm and modern amenities , 42 Willway Ave on this sought after street allows a potential opportunity to own a piece of history with endless possibilities . Willway is a block or two from Mary Munford Elementary School , 3-5 minutes to Carytown , 3-6 minutes to Monument Avenue and has easy access to interstates and main roads . <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $475,000 <p> Unique duplex in Barton Heights sitting on an a large corner lot . Unit 1 offers 2000 Square feet of living space with three levels . Walking into the unit you will find a two story foyer with a large staircase . The large family room is open to the recently renovated kitchen . The oversized kitchen features Granite countertops , modern cabinets , and stainless steel appliances . On the second floor you will find two large bedrooms and a recently remodeled full bathroom . The third floor features flex space/office and another full bathroom . Unit 2 offers 1726 finished square feet and has a separate outside entrance . Inside the unit on the first floor you will find a spacious living room , kitchen and a half bathroom . The second floor has 2 nice sized bedrooms each with its own full bathroom . Both units have central air , washer/dryer , and original hardwood flooring . The exterior of the property features a large wrap around front porch and a recently landscaped front and side yard . <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $725,000 <p> INCREDIBLE OPPORTUNITY for this UNIQUE property in the heart of the Fan ! Steps away from Sticky Rice and other classic Fan restaurants and shops ! This property is actually TWO PARCELS deeded together -- the main house at 1 N. Stafford and a CARRIAGE HOUSE/STUDIO located at 2330 W. Main St. SOLID RENTAL HISTORY on both units , OR live in the home and rent the carriage house ! It 's TWO FOR ONE ! This 1,374 sq ft classic brick Fan row home features a spacious living room , dining area and kitchen on the first floor , and three bedrooms ( one is a trunk room being used as a spacious walk-in closet and dressing room ) and full bath ( with custom glass tile flooring ) upstairs . Wood floors , high ceilings -- ALL THE THINGS ! Brand new upper deck ! The carriage house/studio apartment provides an additional 364 square feet and is perfect for a home office , guest house , Air BnB , full time rental or studio space . There is a shared courtyard between the house and carriage house , with a locked gate for outdoor entertaining at its best . **This property is one deed with two separate tax parcels , two mailing addresses ( 1 N. Stafford and 2330 W. Main St ) and separate utilities . ( tax ID #W0001038031 main house and #W0001038030 studio ) . Truly an amazing opportunity and a must see ! <h> 6 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $325,000 <p> Step into a piece of history revitalized for modern living with this meticulously renovated historic home , transformed into a thriving PadSplit residence in 2022 . Nestled in a prime location along a busline with friendly neighbors and close proximity to parks and grocery stores , this property combines timeless charm with practicality . Boasting 6 bedrooms of varying sizes , each equipped with smart locks for secure and convenient access , it currently generates a robust net monthly income exceeding $3,000 . Two full bathrooms , built with durable roofing materials , cater to communal living needs , complemented by a communal outdoor patio . Updated with a new roof in 2015 and essential HVAC , electrical , and plumbing upgrades in 2015/2016 , the property ensures minimal maintenance and longevity . Originally intended for student rentals , it has achieved remarkable occupancy rates with only 6 turnovers in its inaugural year , offering stability with tenants able to give one week 's notice to vacate . Beyond its current use as a PadSplit , the property offers flexibility as it can also function as a traditional single-family residence , with the PadSplit lease terminable upon one month 's notice . Detailed financials and lease agreements are available upon request , making this an ideal investment opportunity or comfortable residence with income potential in a sought-after locale. <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Hopewell - $1,500,000 <p> Step into a piece of history with this charming Dutch Tudor-style home built in 1929 , nestled in the heart of historic City Point with a waterfront view where the Appomattox and James Rivers converge . This spacious 5-bedroom , 3.5-bath home boasts 4,075 square feet of living space and is set on a generous 2.92-acre lot , offering both privacy and ample room for outdoor activities . The home 's architectural integrity is beautifully preserved , showcasing intricate wood and brickwork details that echo its storied past . With a large 4-car garage , there 's plenty of space for vehicles and storage . Designed with entertaining in mind , this home provides the perfect backdrop for hosting family and friends . The expansive layout and scenic surroundings make it ideal for gatherings , while its prime location means you 're just 30 minutes from Richmond and 45 minutes from Williamsburg . If you 're looking for a home that combines historic charm with modern conveniences and is perfect for enjoying river views and outdoor activities , 701 Appomattox St is the perfect fit for you . Do n't miss this opportunity to own a unique piece of Hopewell 's history ! <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $1,149,950 <p> Welcome to the historic residence at 2018 Princess Anne Avenue ! Built in the early 20th century , this was the last home constructed on Princess Anne Avenue . It is a historically registered place citywide , statewide , and nationwide . There have been modernizations to the kitchen , bathrooms , and rooftop deck . The home has been lovingly maintained and kept in excellent condition by homeowner . The property exudes distinct character traits distinguishing it from other homes in the Union Hill and Church Hill area . You 'll have access to 4 different outdoor spaces including a full front covered porch with ample room to sit privately or host company , an outdoor balcony from the primary bedroom overlooking Jefferson Park , a fenced back patio , and a rooftop deck for you and your guests leisure time . The home possesses 9 ft+. ceilings on each of the 3 floors . The entire 3rd floor could be used as an optional income unit or in-law suite featuring , living rm , 2 bedrooms , 1 full bath , kitchen w/fridge , multiple room arrangement plans and access to rooftop deck . <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $519,900 <p> Featuring newly refinished hardwood floors , a detached garage , and fresh paint throughout this gorgeous property is ready to welcome you home ! You 'll love parking in your own private garage then make your way up the recently re-stained porch , through the back door , and into the mudroom - the perfect space to kick off your shoes and hang your coat at the end of the day . Continue into the eat-in kitchen with stainless appliances and mobile island with breakfast bar . Open to the kitchen is a light and bright dining room featuring a new modern light fixture and an abundance of natural light ! Continue into the living room that boasts beautiful French doors , a cozy stone fireplace , and a new modern light fixture making this the perfect place to entertain guests . Also on the first floor is a half bathroom with updated fixture and mirror . Upstairs you will find four sizable bedrooms and a full bathroom with updated vanity , light fixture , and mirror ! This property also features a partially finished basement with a shower . Enjoy convenient access to Byrd and Maymont Park , as well as local dining and shopping . Do n't miss out on owning this gorgeous property in the desirable Byrd Park area . Schedule your showing today ! <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $850,000 <p> Steeped in history and fully updated for modern living , this stunning 1890 Churchill home offers the perfect blend of preserved charm and contemporary luxury . Fully renovated to the studs in 2018 , updates include a new TPO and shingled roof , 2-zone HVAC , tankless water heater , plumbing , and electrical -- plus brand-new wood siding in 2024 . Offering 4 spacious bedrooms and 3.5 baths , this home features two primary suites -- one on each floor -- each with private porches . The second-floor suite boasts a cozy wood-burning stove , multiple closets , a spa-like en-suite bath with dual vanity , soaking tub , and glass shower , plus a private study with wet bar and balcony access . The chef 's kitchen is a true highlight with a farmhouse sink , gas cooking , and breakfast bar , all open to a light-filled living space with soaring coffered ceilings and 6 total fireplaces . Outdoors , enjoy a full front porch , a stamped concrete patio , front and side gardens , and a private fenced rear . Off-street parking completes the package . This is your chance to own a beautifully restored historic gem close to some of the city 's best restaurants and sites ! <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $599,999 <p> Rare opportunity for investors or owner-occupants to own a completely renovated duplex with a garage on tree-lined Leonard Parkway in the desirable Near West End . Each unit features a spacious living room , dining room , kitchen with private porch access , two bedrooms , one bathroom , and in-unit washer/dryer . The head-to-toe renovation includes a new roof , kitchens , bathrooms , two heat pumps , ductwork , Pella windows , two water heaters , main water line , washers/dryers , gutters , crawl space insulation and hatch , interior and exterior paint , doors , hardware , upgraded plumbing and electrical , and more ! There is a full front porch with a swing and two new large , covered rear porches that lead to the garden enclosed by a new privacy fence . Additionally , there is a divided 2-car garage with individual pedestrian doors , plus separate utilities for each unit . Ideal for generating rental income or living in one unit while renting out the other . Completely turnkey and ready to go -- this is an exceptional opportunity in a prime location ! <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Hopewell - $220,000 <p> Are you looking for your next investment property ? Come check out this Duplex in Hopewell ! There is a 3rd unit at this property inside the garage . This property has had lots of renovations and with some small finishing touches you could turn this into 3 units with good rental returns ! Upstairs has all new windows except for 1 . Roof is brand new ! All units have their own entrance . 1 car garage as well ! Lots of extra lot space in the rear of property with a fully fenced in lot ! There is lots of potential with this property ! All personal property to include carports , storage containers etc. do not convey but are negotiable . <p> Among them included Latitude Seafood Co. , which received a $68,000 bill on an $800 late fee ; Philly Vegan , which received a $37,000 bill in uncollected taxes ; and Beauvine Burger Concept , which received a single bill for $424,000 . <p> The city gave itself a July 1 deadline . However , many restaurant owners are still waiting for answers . <p> As meals tax payments are self-reported , restaurants are responsible for turning in their reporting to the city each month . Restaurants are required to collect a meals tax of 7.5% on every diner 's bill . <p> Samuel Veney is the co-owner of Philly Vegan , a Richmond restaurant that received a $37,000 bill in uncollected taxes . <p> Mike Kropf , TIMES-DISPATCH <p> Likewise , the city does not send out monthly bills . Instead , it issues yearly bills for any unpaid taxes . It also does not have a mechanism in place to inform owners if they are behind . <p> Late payments are applied a 10% penalty and another 10% for each year the penalty goes unpaid , which is how these bills balloon over time . <p> Mayor Levar Stoney addresses the meals tax controversy during a news conference at City Hall in August . <p> MIKE KROPF , TIMES-DISPATCH <p> Chief Administrative Officer Lincoln Saunders cited that many of the problems associated with its meals tax collection arose from its outdated technology system . A new and improved online system called RVAPay -- in which restaurants and businesses will be able to look up their accounts , balances and payments -- is in the works but is not yet online . The city previously said it would go live at the end of 2024 . <p> Many restaurants received settlements from the city . Elizabeth Sexton , owner of Smokh RVA BBQ , received a refund , roughly $5,000 , in 42 separate checks . <p> The Times-Dispatch previously requested through the Freedom of Information Act a list of restaurants that saw their bills reconciled , but the request was denied due to " taxpayer privacy . " <p> Mike Byrne , director of the Richmond Restaurant Association , speaks during a news conference at The Tobacco Company Restaurant in Shockoe Slip on Jan. 31 . Restaurant owners gathered to demand the city make changes to its flawed collection of meals taxes . <h> RVA 100 : 100 people , places , things that you should know about Richmond <h> RVA 100 : The Marlboro sign <p> Head south from downtown Richmond on Interstate 95 and , yes , that big concrete office building does look like a pack of cigarettes with a few butts sticking out . <p> No surprise , because that low-lying factory just behind it is Altria Group 's Richmond Manufacturing Center , where the nation 's No. 1 cigarette brand , Marlboro , is made . <p> Some 1,700 Richmonders make some 76 billion cigarettes a year there . That 's way down from the days when the plant was built in 1973 : 4 of 10 Americans smoked then ; now it 's just a bit more than 1 in 10 . <p> Altria , meanwhile , is looking at other tobacco products that it feels will not be as dangerous to use -- one , a nicotine pouch , is already made in Richmond . <p> -- Dave Ress <p> MIKE KROPF , TIMES-DISPATCH <h> RVA 100 : The Markel Building <p> No , that 's not a flying saucer that landed just west of Willow Lawn shopping center . It 's the Markel Building , commissioned in 1962 by the specialty insurer Markel and designed by Richmond architect Haigh Jamgochian . <p> That crinkly looking metal wrapping each floor is a 500-plus foot long chunk of aluminum and Jamgochian , reportedly inspired by a foil-wrapped baked potato , wielded the sledgehammer that created that distinctive texture . <p> It 's been deemed one of the 10 ugliest buildings in the world , but rather like Jamgochian ( who only managed to get one other design built ) and Markel -- which got its start insuring jitneys and is now a $55 billion insurance and investment powerhouse that long ago moved its headquarters to suburban Glen Allen -- it 's uniquely Richmond . <p> --Dave Ress <p> Phil Riggan <h> RVA 100 : Justin Verlander <p> Before racking up nine All-Star selections , a Rookie of the Year award , three Cy Youngs , two World Series rings , two ERA titles and an MVP , Justin Verlander pitched for Goochland High School . <p> He played varsity all four years with the Bulldogs . After graduating from Goochland , the longtime Manakin-Sabot resident starred at Old Dominion in Norfolk , setting both school and Colonial Athletic Association career records for strikeouts . <p> Verlander was selected second overall by the Tigers in the 2004 MLB draft , leading Detroit to the American League pennant in 2006 and 2012 . After nearly 12 full seasons in the Motor City , he was traded to Houston in 2017 . He went on to win his first of two World Series that season . <p> Along with earning his third Cy Young Award in 2022 , Verlander and the Astros won their second World Series together . <p> The New York Mets acquired Verlander in free agency prior to the 2023 season , but he was traded back to Houston that same season . <p> There was a need for a rail connection following the Civil War , which led to a single-track Belt Line that was a part of the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad . <p> In 1919 , the double-track bridge structure was built over top of the James and has since served as an iconic sight for locals and travelers . <p> -- Jackson Didlake <p> Daniel Sangjib Min , TIMES-DISPATCH <h> RVA 100 : Murals <p> Richmond 's more than 100 murals range from thought-provoking to statement-making to just plain odd . <p> One of the first , a beauty queen on the wall of Sidewalk Cafe on West Main Street , was painted by Ed Trask in the 1990s . Then in 2012 , mural painting exploded here after the first RVA Street Art Festival and the Richmond Mural Project , which led to the design of 100 murals in five years . <p> They have also drawn pushback as the city became " muralized . " <p> Richmond 's murals rose hand in hand with the city 's breweries , restaurants and social media . They appear in tourism videos , help define neighborhoods and drive economic development . Most are on private buildings , paid for by the owner . Near VCU , a mural of a woman crouched in a glass jar is among the most famous . <p> This spring , Richmond was ranked the second best city in the U.S. for public art by the USAToday Best List . <p> --Eric Kolenich <p> DANIEL SANGJIB MIN , TIMES-DISPATCH <h> RVA 100 : The Jefferson Hotel <p> The historic Jefferson Hotel has welcomed thousands of visitors in its nearly 130 years of operations , including the likes of U.S. presidents , writers and celebrities such as the Rolling Stones , Dolly Parton and Elvis Presley . <p> Famous actor and dancer Bill " Bojangles " Robinson was allegedly a waiter at The Jefferson Hotel in the early 1900s . <p> The 166-room luxury hotel , which was the brainchild of famous Richmonder and tobacco baron Lewis Ginter , opened its doors in 1895 . <p> Its classic Spanish Baroque style , designed by one of the most notable New York architects , sets it apart from others in the city and state . It has been the backdrop for numerous movies , including the 1981 film " My Dinner with Andr ? . " <p> In 1901 , a wire fire destroyed three-fifths of the hotel , and the marble statue of Thomas Jefferson sculpted by Edward Valentine was almost destroyed . <p> It also used to house full-size alligators in its marble pools in the front lobby . While the alligators are long gone , their legacy remains with bronze alligator motifs throughout the hotel . <p> The Jefferson remains a popular Richmond destination to celebrate holidays and dining with Christmas , Easter and Mother 's Day brunch selling out months in advance . <p> -- Em Holter <p> Dean Hoffmeyer <h> RVA 100 : Richmond Kickers <p> Established in 1993 , the Richmond Kickers are the longest continuously run professional soccer club in the country and a cornerstone of RVA 's sports scene . <p> The Kickers compete at historic City Stadium and annually place among the highest attendance numbers in USL League One , with an average of roughly 4,000 fans in a stadium situated to hold 6,000 for home games . <p> The club has two primary groups of supporters -- the River City Red Army and Scuffletown Social Club -- traditionally filling Section O in the southwest corner of the stadium , from whence red smoke drifts and drums emanate . <p> The Kickers in 2018 were purchased by majority owners 22 Holdings , LLC , led by CEO and former player Rob Ukrop , from Richmond Kickers Youth Soccer Club , which maintains a minority stake in the club . <p> -- Zach Joachim <p> MIKE KROPF , TIMES-DISPATCH <h> RVA 100 : Maymont <p> One of Richmond 's most popular and picturesque spots is Maymont , a Victorian estate set on 100 rolling acres above the James River . Maymont serves as a park , museum , environmental center and more . <p> Maymont was created in the Gilded Age by James and Sallie Dooley , who lived there from 1893 until 1925 . In their will , the Dooleys left their estate to the city of Richmond to use as a museum and public park . <p> Maymont began showing signs of severe disrepair around the late ' 60s and early ' 70s . In 1975 , the nonprofit Maymont Foundation was established to partner with the city and raise funds for annual expenses and capital improvements . <p> Maymont now offers a public park to Richmond including Japanese Gardens , Italian Gardens and an arboretum . The Maymont Mansion now serves as a museum with 33 rooms that the Dooleys decorated with furnishings from around the world , including the famous Swan Bed . <p> Maymont also offers the Robins Nature Center , which houses river otters , a 20-foot waterfall , aquariums , games and educational exhibits related to life along the James . The Maymont Farm is also home to goats , pigs and other animals for hands-on fun for children and adults . <p> Last year , roughly 800,000 visitors enjoyed Maymont 's exhibits , programming and parks . With a mix of history and modern-day attractions , Maymont is one of the most popular places in Richmond . <p> -- Savannah Reger <p> Jared Campbell <h> RVA 100 : Libby Hill <p> Libby Hill Park is one of three original parks in Richmond , located in Church Hill . The seven-acre park was designed by city engineer Wilfred Cutshaw . <p> Libby Hill is often known as for " The View that Named Richmond , " as the view of the James River closely resembles the view of Richmond on the Thames in England . <p> Originally called Marshall Square , the park became known as Libby Hill Park , named after prominent landowner Luther Libby 's house nearby . <p> Historically , the park was created to give Richmonders the chance to get healthy air in the 1850s , according to the Cultural Landscape Foundation . <p> Libby Hill Park has a great view of the city , as it 's located on a hill and also has an ornamental fountain . In 1969 , it became a national historic landmark , along with St. John 's Church . It was previously home to the Confederate Soldiers and Sailors Memorial statue , which was removed in 2022 . <p> Libby Hill Park has views of the James River , the city skyline and several districts . It is a popular place for gatherings and events , making it a beautiful icon of Richmond . <p> -- Savannah Reger <p> AKASH PAMARTHY , TIMES-DISPATCH <h> RVA 100 : Doug Wilder <p> As we say in the news biz , L. Douglas Wilder has been good copy for more than five decades . <p> Wilder rose from Richmond 's segregated Church Hill to become the nation 's first elected Black governor in 1990 . In 2005 , he became Richmond 's first popularly elected mayor in 56 years . <p> After receiving a Bronze Star for his service in Korea , Wilder built a successful law practice before he achieved a series of historic political firsts . In 1969 , he became Virginia 's first African American state senator since 1890 . <p> With his 1985 election as lieutenant governor , he became the first African American elected statewide in the South since Reconstruction . <p> In January 1990 , after U.S. Supreme Court Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr . swore him in as governor , Wilder declared : " I am a son of Virginia . " <p> At 93 , Wilder continues to make news , often taking issue with Virginia Commonwealth University President Michael Rao and Gov . Glenn Youngkin on his " Wilder Visions " blog . <h> RVA 100 : Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond <p> It 's the headquarters of the Fifth District of the Federal Reserve , which is responsible for the banking system in Maryland , North Carolina , South Carolina , most of West Virginia and Washington , D.C. <p> The bank has a broad list of functions that include providing money to commercial banks and selling Treasury bonds . <p> When the bank moved from its building on North Ninth Street to the current location in 1978 , a small army of security escorted three specially-designed tractor-trailers through the streets of Richmond in the middle of the night as they moved $6 billion worth of securities -- including $300 million in cash , $1 million in coins and more than $700 million in miscellaneous paper such as canceled currency . <p> Security included 30 Secret Service agents in bulletproof vests , heavily armed SWAT teams in station wagons in front of and behind each tractor trailer , 100 Richmond policemen blocking intersections throughout downtown , sharpshooters perched on rooftops and a helicopter overlooking the whole scene . <p> The current building at 701 E. Byrd St. was designed by architect Minoru Yamasaki , who also designed the former World Trade Center in Manhattan . It is the city 's fourth-tallest building at 393 feet . <p> -- Paul Whelan <p> Daniel Sangjib Min , Times-Dispatch <h> RVA 100 : The Flying Squirrels <p> Professional baseball was played for generations in Richmond before the Flying Squirrels soared into town for the 2010 season . Nothing before was comparable in name , entertainment presentation , or impact . <p> With a heavy accent on the fans ' game experience , the Double-A franchise affiliated with the San Francisco Giants became a highly popular attraction for those who are serious fans of the sport , and those who enjoy a lively atmosphere with baseball as background . <p> The Flying Squirrels instantly became one of the leading draws in the minor leagues , regularly averaging more than 6,000 fans and uplifting the community 12 months a year with coat drives , reading programs , youth-league field renovations , and other contributions . <p> MARK GORMUS , TIMES-DISPATCH <h> RVA 100 : Richmond Coliseum <p> For nearly 50 years , the Richmond Coliseum at 601 E. Leigh St. stood as the city 's premier venue for sports , concerts and political rallies . <p> After opening its doors in 1971 , the Coliseum served as the home of the VCU men 's basketball team for nearly 30 years and a part-time home for the ABA 's Virginia Squires until the league folded . <p> Perhaps the most dramatic Coliseum moment occurred during the 1994 Women 's NCAA Division I Basketball Championship , when North Carolina 's Charlotte Smith hit a buzzer-beating 3-pointer to defeat Louisiana Tech by a point . <p> Concerts at the Coliseum featured such legends as Aretha Franklin , Elvis , Prince , The Jackson 5 , Van Halen , B.B. King , Bruce Springsteen and Cher . <p> The Coliseum 's final event was a Harlem Globetrotters show on Dec. 29 , 2018 , with the arena officially closing a couple of months later . <h> RVA 100 : Hollywood Cemetery <p> Nestled alongside the rapids of the James River , Hollywood Cemetery is host to the graves of many noteworthy Virginians . <p> Former presidents James Monroe and John Tyler ; Confederate President Jefferson Davis ; former Gov . Lee Fitzhugh ; and Confederate generals J.E.B. Stuart and George Pickett are all buried within the cemetery grounds . The Monument to Confederate War Dead -- a 90-foot pyramid constructed of crudely hewn James River granite -- pays tribute to the thousands of enlisted Confederate soldiers also buried at the site . <p> In addition to its historical significance , Hollywood Cemetery is an excellent place to take an evening walk to enjoy autumn foliage and local wildlife , or to enjoy a morning sunrise over Belle Isle . <p> -- Samuel B. Parker <p> MIKE KROPF , TIMES-DISPATCH <h> RVA 100 : Agecroft Hall <p> Richmonders can get a taste of Renaissance-era England at Agecroft Hall . <p> The Tudor-style manor , with exposed timber and a stone-style roof , was built in the late 1400s or early 1500s in Lancashire , England . <p> By the 20th century , it had fallen into disrepair . So Richmonder Thomas C. Williams Jr . bought it , had it disassembled and shipped to Richmond , where it was remodeled and rebuilt at 4305 Sulgrave Road in the Windsor Farms neighborhood , overlooking the James River . <p> Work finished in 1928 , but Williams died a year later . The house opened to the public in 1969 . <p> Visit the sunken garden , the trails and museum at 4305 Sulgrave Road . Adult tickets are $12 . Or bring a tailgate chair , a picnic basket full of food and catch a Shakespearean play on the lawn during the Richmond Shakespeare Festival . <p> Clement Britt <h> RVA 100 : Arthur Ashe Jr . <p> A strong case can be made that Arthur Ashe Jr . is the premier athlete from the Richmond area . <p> He was an esteemed international figure in the sporting world for an extended period , becoming the first Black man to win Wimbledon ( 1975 ) , the U.S. Open ( 1968 ) and the Australian Open ( 1970 ) . He captured dozens of other professional tournament titles . <p> But Ashe , an alumnus of Maggie L Walker High School , was also an author and humanitarian . Arthur Ashe Stadium is the New York-based home of the U.S. Open , a multipurpose arena on Richmond 's Arthur Ashe Boulevard also bears his name , and a Monument Avenue statue honors him . <p> STAFF PHOTO <h> RVA 100 : Bill 's Barbecue <p> For more than 80 years , Bill 's Barbecue was an independent , Virginia barbecue chain that served vinegar-based pork barbecue sandwiches , homemade chocolate pies and freshly squeezed limeade . <p> In 2005 , Rhoda Elliott , the company 's president and daughter of Bill 's longtime owner and operator , the late W.S. Richardson Sr. , said " small independents are a dying breed . " <p> " We ought to be put on the endangered-species list . It is hard to fight the big corporations . They have so many resources that the small independents do n't have . " <p> She was right . In December 2012 , the last three Richmond locations closed . Lines were 30 to 50 people deep as longtime customers waited for just one more limeade . <p> DEAN HOFFMEYER , TIMES-DISPATCH <h> RVA 100 : Byrd Theatre <p> The historic Byrd Theatre has been a film spot in Carytown for nearly a century . <p> The venue , known as " Richmond 's Movie Palace , " opened in 1928 when silent films were the popular entertainment . It was named after William Byrd II , the founder of Richmond . <p> The theater has 1,392 seats -- 916 on the main level and 476 in the balconies . Hanging from the ceiling is a giant chandelier that features 500 colored lights that illuminate 5,000 crystals . It also has an organ , the Mighty Wurlitzer , which is still played ahead of shows on Saturdays . <p> In 1977 , it was added to the Virginia Landmarks Register . The Byrd Theatre Foundation , a nonprofit , purchased the Byrd in 2007 and has since put the building under many renovations . <p> The Byrd 's programming has changed over the years from offering second-run films to offering a mix of classic movies and film festivals . <p> -- Jackson Didlake <h> RVA 100 : Capital One <p> The Capital One credit card in your wallet is a modern piece of Richmond history , but also helps pay for the region 's current economic vitality . <p> Capital One is the offspring of Richmond 's once-dominant banking industry , born in 1994 as the spinoff of Signet Banking Corp. , itself the child of Bank of Virginia . <p> But the global financial services giant is also the Richmond region 's largest private employer , with a workforce of 13,000 housed primarily in its operations center on a sprawling West Creek campus in Goochland County , with offices in Chesterfield and Henrico counties . <p> Capital One is still led by one of its founders , Richard Fairbank , chairman and CEO of a company now headquartered in an office tower that overlooks the Capital Beltway at Tysons Corner in McLean . <p> -- Michael Martz <p> Times-Dispatch <h> RVA 100 : The Carillon <p> " What is that ? " <p> For those new to Richmond , the Virginia War Memorial Carillon rises like a distant beacon above its leafy Byrd Park neighborhood . <p> At home , the Carillon is a beloved landmark that stands in homage to 3,700 Virginians who died in World War I as part of the Allied Expeditionary Forces . Their names are not yet listed in stone but will be next year with the completion of a three-stage restoration of the state-owned historic landmark . <p> The 240-foot tower rose from a civic initiative that began a week after the Armistice ended the war on Nov. 11 , 1918 , and culminated in the memorial 's dedication in a public celebration attended by 15,000 people on Oct. 15 , 1932 . Now , the Carillon is poised for rededication with the same lofty goal of remembering the war dead . <p> -- Michael Martz <p> Daniel Sangjib Min , TIMES-DISPATCH <h> RVA 100 : Church Hill <p> In 1775 , Patrick Henry delivered his famous " Give Me Liberty , or Give Me Death ! " speech at St. John 's Church in Church Hill , laying the groundwork for the area 's historic significance . <p> Founded in 1737 , Church Hill is home to Richmond 's first church and is the city 's oldest surviving neighborhood . <p> In 1925 , a train tunnel built during Reconstruction collapsed under Church Hill , killing three or four people . Former Gov . Doug Wilder was born and raised in Church Hill . <p> Church Hill has also experienced a significant demographic shift . In the late 1950s , the neighborhood experienced decline and subsequent white flight due to development and housing policies . <p> In the 1980s , the Historic Richmond Foundation began purchasing homes to resell to private homeowners for restoration . In 1997 , the Church Hill Historic District was listed on the National Register of Historic Places . <p> In recent years , Church Hill has become one of Richmond 's most desirable neighborhoods with critically acclaimed restaurants such as The Roosevelt , ample parks and historic homes . Increased interest in Church Hill has translated into rising home prices with the median home price around $440,000 , pushing out longtime residents who are most often people of color . <p> -- Savannah Reger <p> Phil Riggan <h> RVA 100 : Jackson Ward <p> For those who want to understand the complex history of Richmond , Jackson Ward is ground zero . <p> In the 1920s , Jackson Ward -- bounded by north Belvidere and Third and East Broad streets and Interstate 95 -- made a name for itself as a Black Wall Street . Since then , it has suffered from years of segregationist policy decisions , chief among them the 1954 decision to route a section of I-95 through the heart of the neighborhood . <p> Some 1,000 homes were removed to fit the highway , which now cuts the neighborhood in half , according to historian Benjamin Campbell . <p> The historically Black neighborhood sits on the northwest corner of Richmond 's bustling downtown . Its key landmarks include a colorful section of Broad Street , the Maggie L. Walker Memorial Plaza , a small business triangle dedicated to the civil rights leader ; the historic Ebenezer Baptist Church ; and the distinct Leigh Street Armory , which is now the Black History Museum &amp; Cultural Center of Virginia . <p> -- Luca Powell <p> Daniel Sangjib Min , TIMES-DISPATCH <h> RVA 100 : The James River <p> At Richmond , Virginia 's backbone waterway passes its final falls and rapids to begin its more stately path to the Chesapeake Bay . You can spot bald eagles and ospreys circling overhead ; herons stalk the shore . <p> Dropping 105 feet in elevation as it flows through Richmond , the river 's passage over rocks and dams creates class I , II , III and IV rapids -- the last rated difficult because of their power , with standing waves ; souse holes ; and boiling eddies . <h> RVA 100 : City Stadium <p> Whether it was football or f ? tbol , City Stadium has hosted its fair share of sporting events over the years . <p> The stadium was built in 1929 and is currently used at a capacity of 6,000 for the Richmond Kickers of USL League One and the Richmond Ivy of USL W League . Its full capacity sits at roughly 22,000 . <p> The University of Richmond played football there up until 2009 , and the venue adopted the name UR Stadium in 1983 until 2010 after the Spiders moved . <p> The stadium has also played host to a couple of Richmond-based minor league football teams in addition to a couple of other USL-based soccer teams . Additionally , it was previously the host of the NCAA Division I Men 's Soccer Tournament from 1995 to 1998 . <p> JAMES H. WALLACE , TIMES-DISPATCH <h> RVA 100 : Chimborazo Park <p> Chimborazo Park is laden with city history and lore while also letting park-goers experience all of Richmond . <p> Sitting on a bluff overlooking the James River , Chimborazo Park has 180-degree views showing the river and the Richmond skyline . <p> The modern park , which is home to such landmarks as a miniature replica Statue of Liberty and the Chimborazo Medical Museum , holds the Richmond National Battlefield Park headquarters . <p> The park in the 3200 block of East Broad Street was established in 1874 and carries the name of a volcano in Ecuador . During the Civil War , it was home to one of the world 's largest military hospitals with over 75,000 patients passing through its doors during the conflict . <p> After the war , the site was turned into a refugee camp for former slaves managed by the Freedmen 's Bureau . It was eventually purchased by Richmond 's Board of Aldermen for $35,000 to make way for the park . <p> -- Sean Jones <p> JOE MAHONEY , TIMES-DISPATCH <h> RVA 100 : Carytown <p> When in search of a fun day of shopping , dining and entertainment , Carytown is the hub for indie boutiques , flavorful food spots and more to satisfy a local 's or visitor 's experience . <p> Carytown was officially established in 1938 , when the Cary Court shopping area opened as Richmond 's first strip mall . Cary Street , and the neighborhood of Carytown , got its name from Colonel Archibald Cary , an influential politician and landowner who lived on Ampthill Plantation in Chesterfield in the 1700s . On the plantation 's 14,000 acres , Cary owned hundreds of slaves , a ropery , a flour mill and an iron forge . <p> Now a bohemian district nestled in the heart of Richmond , Carytown is a " mile of style " offering various shopping , dining and entertainment venues , with a hyperfocus on small , locally owned businesses . <p> Featuring unique murals that brighten the buildings and alleyways throughout the district 's stretch of West Cary Street , Carytown is also home to the historic Byrd Theatre , a popular cinema named after the founder of the city and affectionately known as " Richmond 's Movie Palace . " <p> A 25-foot-tall Carytown sign is headed to the western entrance of the neighborhood . The diamond-like shaped sign will include green and gold coloring and read " Carytown , Richmond , Va. , Est. 1938 . " <p> -- Kylee Toland <p> AKASH PAMARTHY , TIMES- DISPATCH <h> Top stories of 2024 : A tumultuous political year sees Trump return <p> This was one of the more tumultuous years in politics in a long time -- a former president won a White House reengagement , a current president 's on-again-off-again campaign collapsed , and Virginians sent some new faces to the U.S. Capitol . <p> Vice President Kamala Harris lost the presidential contest to former President Donald Trump , but Democrats carried Virginia . <p> Associated Press <p> Richmond voters elected former state Commissioner of Social Services Danny Avula as the city 's next mayor . A pediatrician who led Virginia 's COVID-19 vaccination push , Avula won outright in a five-way race . <p> Avula <p> MIKE KROPF , TIMES-DISPATCH <p> Sen. Tim Kaine , D-Va. , won a third term . <p> Sen. Tim Kaine , D-Va. , who won a third term , speaks at an election night party at the Hippodrome Theater in Richmond . <p> MIKE KROPF , TIMES-DISPATCH <p> The state 's Congressional delegation remained at six Democrats and five Republicans , though there will be three new members of Congress next year . <p> State Sen. John McGuire , R-Goochland , unseated Rep. Bob Good , R-5th , in a June primary . <p> Paige Dingler , News &amp; Advance <p> State Sen. John McGuire , R-Goochland , will represent the 5th District , which covers a swath of the Piedmont , from Goochland and Louisa County south to the state line . McGuire ousted Rep. Bob Good , R-5th , in a GOP primary . <p> Vindman <p> Vindman campaign <p> Eugene Vindman , a retired Army officer whose twin brother testified against Trump during his first impeachment trial , will represent the Prince William County-anchored 7th District in Northern Virginia . Vindman succeeds Rep. Abigail Spanberger , D-7th , who is leaving Congress to run for governor next year . <p> Subramanyam <p> Courtesy of Suhas Subramanyam <p> Former state Sen. Suhas Subramanyam , D-Loudoun , will represent the 10th District in Northern Virginia . He succeeds Rep. Jennifer Wexton , who is retiring after a diagnosis that she has a severe neurological disease . <p> Democrats had hoped to flip the 2nd District in Hampton Roads , while Republicans wanted to take the 7th in Northern Virginia . Neither effort succeeded . <p> President Joe Biden 's disastrous performance in a June debate with Trump put his campaign on the skids , and he withdrew from the race in July . <p> While the Democratic Party quickly coalesced around Harris , her victory in Virginia was narrower , at 5.8 percentage points , than Biden 's 10-point win over Trump in Virginia in 2020 . Her total was some 78,173 votes less than Biden 's . Trump picked up an additional 112,655 Virginia votes . <h> Other contests <p> Also in Richmond : School Board member Kenya Gibson defeated incumbent Ann-Frances Lambert to represent the 3rd District on City Council . Andrew Breton and Sarah M.A. Abubaker won the open seats for the 1st and 4th districts . <p> On the Richmond School Board , five of the nine members will be new : Matt Percival for the 1st District ; Katie Ricard , who unseated incumbent Mariah White for the 2nd ; Ali Faruk , who succeeds Gibson in the 3rd ; Wesley Hedgepeth , who topped recently appointed incumbent Garrett Sawyer in the 4th ; and Emmett Jafari in the 8th . <p> In Petersburg , 81.6% of voters said they want a casino . Richmond voters had rejected a casino in 2021 and in 2023 . <h> From the archives : President-elect Donald Trump 's Virginia visits <p> Former President Donald Trump speaks during a campaign event at the Greater Richmond Convention Center on Saturday , March 2 , 2024 . <p> MIKE KROPF , TIMES-DISPATCH <p> Former President Donald Trump speaks during a campaign event at the Greater Richmond Convention Center on Saturday , March 2 , 2024 . <p> MIKE KROPF <p> Former President Donald Trump speaks during a campaign event at the Greater Richmond Convention Center on Saturday , March 2 , 2024 . <p> MIKE KROPF <p> A customer picks up a beanie in support of presidential candidate Trump outside the Greater Richmond Convention Center prior Trump 's rally in Richmond , Va . March 2 . <p> President Donald Trump gave a thumbs-up Thursday as he left the hangar deck of the Gerald R. Ford warship , which is under construction at Newport News Shipbuilding . <p> ALEXA WELCH EDLUND/Times-Dispatch <p> President Donald Trump stands next to Capt . Richard McCormack , commander of the USS Gerald R. Ford , as they leave the hangar deck after the president spoke aboard the aircraft carrier at Newport News Shipbuilding Thursday , March 2 , 2017 . <h> Top stories of 2024 : Hamas attack , Gaza war effects felt in Richmond <p> Approximately 1,200 people were killed and another 250 were taken hostage during the attacks , which had ripple effects that carried over into 2024 . <p> One of the hostages was Hersh Goldberg-Polin , 23 , a former Richmond resident . <p> Goldberg-Polin 's parents , Rachel Goldberg and Jon Polin , publicly called for their son and the other hostages to be released , meeting with President Joe Biden and Pope Francis and speaking at the Democratic National Convention . <p> As a throng of reporters took their seats amid UVa athletics brass and a host of current and former Cavaliers basketball players and coaches , the weight of the moment was palpable . They had gathered for Tony Bennett 's retirement news conference in the dining hall of John Paul Jones Arena . <p> And as Bennett , alongside UVa director of athletics Carla Williams , prepared to address the media the following day , the nationwide conversation surrounding the evolving landscape of college athletics hovered over the proceedings . <p> " The game and college athletics is not in a healthy spot , " Bennett said as he fought back tears . " And there needs to be change . " <p> So his retirement proved not only one of Virginia 's top stories of 2024 , but one of the most notable sports narratives on a national scale -- a barometer of the growing unease surrounding a college athletics landscape that many believe has spun wildly out of control amid the " wild west " of the transfer portal and name , image and likeness compensation . <p> If Bennett , one of the country 's most widely respected college hoops minds , does n't want to play ball anymore , something must truly be rotting at the core of the nation 's college athletics landscape . <p> During a news conference in the dining hall at John Paul Jones Arena in Charlottesville on Oct. 18 , UVa men 's basketball coach Tony Bennett announces his retirement in front of a crowd of UVa officials , current and former UVa players and others connected to the school . " The game and college athletics is not in a healthy spot , " Bennett said as he fought back tears . " And there needs to be change . " <p> CAL CARY , THE DAILY PROGRESS <p> Bennett said college sports are moving toward a " professional model " in which collective bargaining is essential . <p> He called for restrictions on the salary pool that programs can spend ; for increased transfer regulations ; and for limits on agent involvement with college athletes . <p> He added that he worries about the mental health of student-athletes in the modern landscape . <p> " It 's not fair to these guys ( his players ) and this institution that I love so much , to continue on when you know you 're not the right guy for the job , " Bennett said . <h> Scenes from Tony Bennett 's retirement press conference <h> TonyBennettRetire ' 24-9. jpg <p> From left to right , Pat Parkhill and Tony Bennett , University of Virginia Basketball Head Coach , chat after Bennett announces his retirement from coaching at John Paul Jones Arena during a press conference on Friday , Oct. 18 , 2024 . <p> CAL CARY THE DAILY PROGRESS <h> TonyBennettRetire ' 24-7. jpg <p> During a news conference in the dining hall at John Paul Jones Arena in Charlottesville on Oct. 18 , UVa men 's basketball coach Tony Bennett announces his retirement in front of a crowd of UVa officials , current and former UVa players and others connected to the school . " The game and college athletics is not in a healthy spot , " Bennett said as he fought back tears . " And there needs to be change . " <p> CAL CARY , THE DAILY PROGRESS <h> TonyBennettRetire ' 24-8. jpg <p> Tony Bennett , University of Virginia Basketball Head Coach , shakes hands with Jim Ryan , UVa 's President , after Bennett announces his retirement from coaching at John Paul Jones Arena during a press conference on Friday , Oct. 18 , 2024 . <h> TonyBennettRetire ' 24-6. jpg <h> TonyBennettRetire ' 24-4. jpg <p> From left to right , University of Virginia President Jim Ryan and Rector Robert Hardie attend the retirement announcement of basketball coach Tony Bennett , Friday , Oct. 18 , 2024 , at John Paul Jones Arena in Charlottesville . <p> CAL CARY , THE DAILY PROGRESS <h> TonyBennettRetire ' 24-3. jpg <p> Coach Tony Bennett gets emotional on Friday as he discusses his reasons for stepping down from UVa . <p> CAL CARY , THE DAILY PROGRESS <h> TonyBennettRetire ' 24-1. jpg <p> From left to right , Erich Bacher , University of Virginia Associate AD for Athletic Communications ; Tony Bennett , UVa Basketball Head Coach ; and Carla Williams , UVa Athletic Director , walk in the aisle at JPJ before Bennett announces his retirement from coaching during a press conference on Friday , Oct. 18 , 2024 . <p> CAL CARY THE DAILY PROGRESS <h> TonyBennettRetire ' 24-2. jpg <p> Virginia Director of Athletics Carla Williams , left , listens as head coach Tony Bennett announces his retirement . " ... the game and college athletics is not in a healthy spot , " he said . " And there needs to be change . I was equipped to do the job here the old way . " <h> HIDE VERTICAL GALLERY ASSET TITLES <p> CarMax Park , with a baseball seating capacity of approximately 10,000 and a 360-degree concourse , will replace The Diamond in 2026 , if the plan matures as expected . <p> The Diamond has been home to professional baseball in Richmond since 1985 . In addition to baseball , CarMax Park will host " large-scale events year-round , including concerts , festivals , and community gatherings , " according to CarMax and the Double-A Richmond Flying Squirrels . CarMax Park will be located adjacent to The Diamond on North Arthur Ashe Boulevard . <p> The Diamond has been home to professional baseball since 1985 , and 2025 is expected to be its final season before it is replaced by CarMax Park . <p> Throughout the final season at The Diamond next year , the Flying Squirrels plan to salute former Richmond players and teams . <p> The new stadium , projected to cost $110 million , is considered the anchor to a 68-acre , $2.4 billion development called the Diamond District . The Flying Squirrels will be tenants for a minimum of 30 years . For the first 10 years of the lease , they will pay $3.2 million a year , among the highest lease payments in minor league baseball . <p> Shayy Winn sings the national anthem on May 19 before a Richmond Flying Squirrels ' game against the Reading Fighting Phils . <p> NICOLAS GALINDO , TIMES- <p> DISPATCH <p> According to CarMax , " CarMax Park will be uniquely Richmond in its design , with nods to the city 's history blended with modern , state-of-the-art amenities . " <p> The Diamond , which cost $8 million to build , previously was home to the Richmond Braves , Atlanta 's Triple-A club , in town from 1966 to 2008 . Although The Diamond lacks modern amenities , the Flying Squirrels consistently have ranked among the top 20 in minor league attendance -- all levels -- since they arrived in Richmond for the 2010 season . <p> Ashley Pollard , mother of Amari Pollard , wipes away a tear during an interview about her eldest son , who was sentenced to 43 years in prison with 18 years suspended after pleading guilty to first-degree murder in the death of Huguenot High School graduate Shawn Jackson on June 6 , 2023 . <p> The Diamond , home to professional baseball in Richmond since 1985 , heads into its final season in 2025 . <p> Richmond Circuit Court Judge W. Reilly Marchant said the exemption that the School Board used to justify not releasing the report in response to public records requests mostly did not apply to the 32-page report . He ordered the board to release the report . <p> The report found Huguenot High School staff knew of threats against Shawn Jackson , the student who was fatally shot , and the school did not initiate a threat assessment as school system policy requires in such circumstances . <p> The report also found Jackson participated in the ceremony without the school principal 's authorization and without consideration of safety concerns that were known by several school staff members . <p> Police respond to the area around Monroe Park following the fatal shooting after Huguenot High School 's graduation ceremony on June 6 , 2023 . <p> MARGO WAGNER , TIMES-DISPATCH <p> Weeks after the release of the report , Amari Pollard , Jackson 's former classmate , pleaded guilty to first-degree murder and received a sentence of 43 years in prison with 18 years suspended . <p> The killer of Jackson 's stepfather , Renzo Smith , remains unidentified . Ballistics evidence ruled out Pollard as his killer . A forensic examiner found at least 30 bullet cartridge casings , most of which were not fired from Pollard 's gun . <p> Jackson 's mother , Tameeka Jackson-Smith , gave an emotional testimony on the opening day of the trial , saying that she watched her husband and only son die in a matter of minutes . <p> One year after the shooting , in June , The Times-Dispatch spoke with Jackson-Smith , who said she was still searching for answers -- who shot and killed her husband , and who struck her 9-year-old daughter with their car during the chaos outside the graduation ceremony ? <p> Henrico County Public Schools continue to hold graduation ceremonies after the shooting tragedy at Altria Theatre . Families at Thursday 's Highland Springs ceremony said they were determined to enjoy the day . <p> Richmond Public Schools administration seeks to boost partnership with police . It also proposes a new 15-part safety plan with a pilot program that would require some students to lock up their cellphones in pouches during the school day . <p> The Richmond City School Board voted Monday night to authorize a third-party investigation of the circumstances leading up to the June 6 shooting death of an 18-year-old graduating student and his father outside of the Altria Theater after the Huguenot High School graduation . <p> The Richmond School Board on Monday night rejected a proposal to release an external investigation into the June 6 shooting death of an 18-year-old graduating student and his father outside of the Altria Theater after Huguenot High School 's graduation ceremony . <p> Richmond Public Schools previously denied the newspaper 's public records request for the report , saying that it is subject to the attorney-client privilege exemption laid out in Virginia 's public record laws . <p> The Richmond Times-Dispatch sued the school board to force it to release the results of an investigation that it paid a law firm to conduct over the June 6 shooting outside the theater following the Huguenot High School graduation ceremony . <p> Amari Pollard , 20 , is the only suspect in the shooting at Huguenot High School 's graduation last summer , where two people were killed and five others were injured . Pollard is charged with first-degree murder in connection with Shawn Jackson 's death , and a separate felony offense for using a firearm . Pollard and Jackson had an " ongoing dispute , " but police have never explained why only Pollard has been charged despite the number of victims . The trial is set to last five days , with a verdict expected on March 1 . <p> The year featured startling national political twists , protests and crackdowns on Virginia 's college campuses , revelations about Richmond 's Office of Elections , and a star UVa coach 's sudden departure . 
